{"id": "2009549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2009549", "title": "Brooke Langton", "text": "Brooke Langton\n\nBrooke Langton (born November 27, 1970) is an American actress. She is best known for the role of Samantha Reilly in the Fox prime time soap opera, \"Melrose Place\" from 1996 to 1998. Langton later had the leading role in the short-lived USA Network drama series, \"The Net\" (1998–99), and was the female lead in the 2000 comedy film \"The Replacements\".\n\nLangton was born in Arizona to geologist Jackson Langton, and his wife, a surgical nurse. Her maternal grandfather, Stephen Cummings, was a World War II bomber pilot and her aunt Sally Spalding is a script supervisor. Langton was raised in Illinois and Texas and attended Herscher High School, L. D. Bell High School and San Diego State University. She was a model working primarily in Japan before starting her acting career. Her maternal grandmother was a Swedish farmer who emigrated to Minnesota.\n\nLangton made her television debut in 1992, appearing in several episodes of \"Beverly Hills, 90210\", \"Freshman Dorm\", and \"Baywatch\". She later made her feature film debut as a drug addict in the 1994 action film \"Terminal Velocity\". The following year, Langton was a regular cast member in the short-lived ABC adventure drama series, \"Extreme\" co-starring opposite James Brolin. Later that year, she played the lead role in the made-for-television movie, \"Eye of the Stalker\".\n\nIn 1996, Langton joined the cast of the Fox prime time soap opera, \"Melrose Place\", playing Samantha Reilly Campbell. She starred in the show during its fifth and sixth season, leaving early in the seventh season. After leaving \"Melrose Place\", Langton was cast as lead in the USA Network series, \"The Net\", a television drama based on the 1995 film of the same name. Langton portrayed the character Angela Bennett, who was played by Sandra Bullock in the film. The series was canceled after one season. She later starred alongside Keanu Reeves and Gene Hackman in the 2000 film \"The Replacements\", her biggest feature credit to date. Langton also co-starred in the comedy films \"Playing Mona Lisa\" (2000), and \"Kiss the Bride\" (2002).\n\nIn 2001, Langton had the leading role in the Fox crime drama series, \"Fling\", but the show was cancelled by the network before its premiere. During her later career, she starred in a number of smaller films, including \"Partner(s)\" (2005) with Jay Harrington and Julie Bowen, and \"Beautiful Dreamer\" alongside Colin Egglesfield. In 2007, she starred in the horror film \"Primeval\" opposite Dominic Purcell. From 2007 to 2008, she had a recurring role in the NBC drama series, \"Friday Night Lights\". During that same time she co-starred as Charlie Crews attorney Constance Griffiths in another NBC drama, \"Life\". In later years, Langton guest starred on \"The Closer\", \"Bones\", and \"Supernatural\". In 2018, she had a recurring role during the final season of TNT series, \"The Last Ship\".\n\nIn 2015 Langton participated as a contestant on the Swedish show \"Allt för Sverige\" (Everything for Sweden), where she competed against other Americans for the prize to get to know her Swedish family and roots. The series was broadcast on SVT. In the second episode it was revealed that Langton was a relative of actor Adolf Jahr.\n"}
{"id": "2009556", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2009556", "title": "Marianne Hainisch", "text": "Marianne Hainisch\n\nMarianne Hainisch, born Marianne Perger (25 March 1839 – 5 May 1936) was the founder and leader of the Austrian women's movement. She was also the mother of Michael Hainisch, the first President of Austria (1920–1928). \n\nMarianne Perger was born in 1839 in Baden near Vienna in Austria. Her mother employed tutors to help her teach Marianne and her siblings. Her father Josef Perger owned factories in Hirtenburg.\n\nIn 1857 Marianne married the industrialist Michael Hainisch (owner of a spinning factory in Aue) with whom she had two children (Michael, 1858, and Maria, 1860). In 1868 the family moved to Vienna. During the American Civil War (1861–65), the business was in crisis, as cotton wool could no longer be sourced from the United States.\n\nIn the late 1860s, a transformative experience for Marianne was the difficulty a friend of hers had in obtaining work to support her family after her husband had fallen ill. Despite her friend's best efforts (she spoke several languages and had musical talents) she was unable to find work. For the 30-year-old Marianne, the importance of education in enabling middle class women to access work became clear. In 1870 she wrote an article (On the Education of Women), which no newspaper would publish. At a meeting on 25 March 1870 she presented her article, culminating in a call for the City of Vienna to institute parallel school classes for girls. This bombshell was widely reported in the newspapers, and resulted in the First Austrian Savings Bank donating 40,000 gulden for the foundation of a girls' school. \n\nIn 1888 Hainisch initiated the League for Extended Women's Education, which agitated that women be permitted to enroll for higher education. In 1902 she founded the Federation of Austrian Women's Organisations, and was its Chair until 1918. On 17 October 1906, she convened a meeting of the \"Komitee für Frauenstimmrecht\" (Committee for Women's Suffrage), welcoming speakers Carrie Chapman Catt and Aletta Jacobs, who had recently participated in the Copenhagen Conference of the International Woman Suffrage Alliance. Friederike Zeileis served as Catt's translator, and Hainisch notified the group that thousands of signatures had been collected on a petition to be presented shortly to the legislature urging the repeal of Section 30 of the Association Act. Section 30, was the part of the legal code which denied women political authority. In 1919 she was elected Deputy President of the International Council of Women, which the Federation had affiliated to in 1904, a position she held until 1924.\n\nIn autumn 1918 Marianne Hainisch joined the Civil-Democratic Party, and eleven years later was co-founder of the Austrian Women's Party. Hainisch is regarded as the initiator of Mother's Day in Austria, which has been celebrated since 1924.\n\nShe died on 5 May 1936.\n\nIn 1967 her home town of Baden erected a statue in her honour. In 1989 Austria issued a commemorative stamp, on the occasion of the 150th anniversary of her birth. In 2002 Vienna named a street (Marianne-Hainisch-Gasse) in her honour.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2009560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2009560", "title": "Lancaster Eagle-Gazette", "text": "Lancaster Eagle-Gazette\n\nThe Lancaster Eagle-Gazette is a daily newspaper based in Lancaster, Ohio in the United States and founded in 1936. Before 1936, it was known as \"Lancaster Daily Eagle\" (1890–1936). The newspaper has a daily circulation of 6,041 copies and a Sunday circulation of 8,304 copies. The Sunday version is also known with its alternative name \"Sunday Eagle Gazette.\" The newspaper is owned by Gannett.\n\n"}
{"id": "2009569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2009569", "title": "Iskar (river)", "text": "Iskar (river)\n\nThe Iskar (, ; ) is a right tributary of the Danube. With a length of 368 km it is the longest river that runs entirely within Bulgaria. Originating as three forks in Balkan's highest mountain range Rila, it flows in northern direction until its confluence with the Danube River. As it flows northwards it fuels the largest artificial lake in the country, the Iskar Reservoir, forms the divide between the Vitosha and Plana Mountains in the west and the Sredna Gora mountain range in the east before entering the Sofia Valley, which contains the nation's capital Sofia. From there the Iskar runs through the Balkan Mountains forming the spectacular 84 km long Iskar Gorge and as it crosses the mountains its water course turns in north-eastern direction at Lakatnik. North of the Balkan Mountains the river crosses the Danubian Plain and finally flows into the Danube between the villages of Baykal and Gigen. Geologically, Iskar is the oldest river in the Balkan Peninsula.\n\nIts watershed drains 8,617 km in the provinces of Sofia, Sofia City, Vratsa, Lovech and Pleven. The Iskar flows through nine towns and numerous villages. The Iskar river basin is home to more than 50 species of fish, including \"Cottus haemusi\" that is endemic to the upper Iskar and Vit drainages. \n\nThe Iskar has a significant economic importance, providing water for the needs of the capital and a number of manufacturing plants. It waters are also utilised for irrigation and electrical energy generation, while the scenic gorges and rock formations throughout its course provide excellent conditions for recreation. Although the Iskar is not navigable its valley is very important for transportation, especially along the Iskar Gorge, which is one of the only three passes in the Balkan Mountains crossed by a railway.\n\nThe Iskar is 368 km long, which makes it the longest river that runs entirely within the territory of Bulgaria. The Danube and the Maritsa rivers are both longer but they also flow through other countries. The Iskar is a tributary to the Danube and forms part of the Black Sea river basin. It is the only river that takes its source in southern Bulgaria and flows north through the Balkan Mountains that form the water divide between the basins of the Black Sea to the north and the Aegean Sea to the south. In terms of geology, the Iskar is the oldest river in the Balkans and also the only one to have preserved its original direction despite the significant geological changes in later stages. The Iskar basin spans a territory of 8,646 km in six Bulgarian provinces, Sofia, Sofia City, Vratsa, Lovech and Pleven, with a total population of about 1,600,000 people. The most significant right tributaries from south to north are the Lesnovska River (65 km), Malki Iskar (85 km) and Zlatna Panega (50 km); the largest left tributaries are the Palakaria (39 km), Vitoshka Bistritsa (12 km) and Perlovska (31 km).\n\nThe Iskar headwaters consist of three forks in the northern slopes of Rila, Bulgaria's highest mountain range. The 23 km long Cherni (black) Iskar is considered the main stem of the river. It takes its source from the Chamovsko Lake (2,500 m) to the north-east of the Damga Peak (2,669 m) and from there the river flows in north-eastern direction through the Govedartsi Valley, fuelled by the waters of the Chanakgyolski, Malyovishki and Urdini Lakes. Cherni Iskar's discharge at Goverdartsi is 1.60 m/s; its basin covers 237 km. Beli (white) Iskar is the longest of the three with a length of 28 km and its springs are at the northern slopes of the Redzhepitsa Peak (2,677 m). It forms a deep and steep valley and has a basin of 91 km. One of its tributaries, the Bistritsa, takes its beginning from the Musala Lakes under the slopes of Musala (2,925 m), the highest summit of the Balkan Peninsula. In its upper course at an altitude of 1,900 m is located the Beli Iskar Reservoir, constructed between 1939 and 1945, that powers a small 16 MW hydro power station. Levi (left) Iskar is the smallest of the three and has its origins at the northern slopes of the Marinkyovistsa Peak (2,636 m). It flows through a deep valley for 18 km until its confluence with Cherni Iskar downstream of the village Mala Tsarkva and has a watershed of 56 km.\n\nIskar proper is formed by the confluence of Beli and Cherni Iskar and remains a typical mountain turbulent river with very large inclination and dragging force before entering the Samokov valley at an altitude of 950 m. It flows through the town of Samokov and is joined by its first significant left tributary, the Palakaria a few kilometres to the north. As it emerges out of the valley the river fills the Iskar Reservoir, the largest artificial lake in Bulgaria. Downstream of the dam the Iskar flows in north-western direction and forms the 22 km long Pancharevo Gorge that divides the Vitosha and Plana Mountains in the west and the Sredna Gora mountain range in the east. There it fills the Pasarel Reservoir and Lake Pancharevo. \n\nThe middle course of the Iskar takes its beginning at the village of German. As it enters the Sofia Valley (550 m) at the aforementioned village it turns northwards and forms a wide river bed. There the river flows through the easternmost suburbs of the national capital Sofia and is crossed over by the runway of Sofia International Airport. In the southern parts of the valley the Iskar has an inclination of 6.7‰ that decreases to 0.06‰ in the northern reaches of the valley near the town of Novi Iskar. Upstream in Sofia Valley the sediment that the Iskar carries consists mainly of rough gravel while downstream it is mainly sand.\n\nThe river enters the Balkan Mountains at the town of Novi Iskar and forms a long and spectacular gorge, whose slopes reach a height of 200 m up to 500 m at some points. The Iskar Gorge reaches a length of 70 km between its beginning at Kurilo, a neighbourhood of Novi Iskar, and the village of Lyutibrod which marks its end. The river flows north through much of the gorge but at Lakatnik it forms a right turn and starts flowing eastwards. Up to Gara Bov the Iskar flows through very eroded rocks and the gorge is wide with better developed and preserved river terraces. These terraces have formed during the Quaternary and can be 110 to 120 m high. Upstream the river runs through mesozoic limestone, which makes the gorge narrow and even canyon-like at places. At the very beginning of the gorge to Rebrovo the inclination of the Iskar is only 0.75‰ and it flows slowly, forming meanders and even islets. However, the inclination soon increases to an average of 4.1‰ and the flow quickens, forming a narrow and carved river bed.\n\nAt Lyutibrod the Iskar enters the Pre-Balkan hills where it forms its fourth gorge with a length of 64 km. The inclination is 2.59‰ on average between Lyutibrod and the town of Roman, and 1.38‰ between Roman and Chomakovtsi. At Karlukovo the river once again turns its course in northern direction.\n\nThe lower course begins from the village of Chomakovtsi, where it leaves the pre-Balkan mountains and enters the Danubian Plain. From there the Iskar once again flows in north-eastern direction until its confluence with the Danube. In this section the valley of the river is hollowed into the loess sediments of the Danubian Plain. The valley is wide but narrowed by the valleys of neighbouring valleys of the rivers Vit to the east and Skat to the west. The right margins of the lower Iskar valley are higher and steeper than the left. In the past, the riverbed was carved into an alluvial bottom and due to the small inclination the river used to form meanders with swampy banks. Nowadays the Iskar flows in a corrected riverbed during the last about 17 km until it reaches the Danube. The riverbeds of some of its tributaries such as Blato, Stari Iskar and Kakach Kriva river have also been adjusted. The confluence with the Danube is situated at an altitude of 25 m, at 3 km to the north-east of the village of Baykal and to the west of the village of Gigen.\n\nThere are several protected areas that include parts of the Iskar river. The headwaters of the river it its uppermost course fall within the territory of Rila National Park, the largest one in Bulgaria. The European Union network of nature protection areas Natura 2000 includes several protected areas along the river, such as the section of the Pancharevo Gorge under the code Plana BG0001307 and the lower course of the Iskar in the vicinity of the town of Dolni Dabnik under the code Iskar River BG0000613.\n\nThe autochthonous ichthyofauna consists of at least 50 species of two classes, Cephalaspidomorphi (jawless fishes) and Actinopterygii (ray-finned fishes), and five orders, Petromyzontiformes (lampreys), Siluriformes (catfish), Gadiformes, Esociformes (pikes and allies) and Perciformes. Many of them are restricted to the lower course near the confluence with the Danube. The jawless fishes of the order Petromyzontiformes are represented by a single family Petromyzontidae with two species, brook lamprey, Carpathian brook lamprey. The Siluriformes include the only species of this order in Europe, the wels catfish. The only freshwater fish of the order Gadiformes, the burbot, inhabits the lower course near the Danube, which is among the southernmost points of its range. The Esociformes are also represented by a single species, the northern pike. \n\nThe Perciformes are the most diverse order of fishes in the Iskar, represented by several families. The autochthonous species of the family Percidae include pikeperch, Volga pikeperch, European perch, common zingel, streber, Eurasian ruffe, Balon's ruffe, striped ruffe, The Cyprinidae are represented by asp, tench, Danube bleak, common bleak, riffle minnow, silver bream, common bream, white-eye bream, blue bream, Vimba bream, sabrefish, ide, European chub, common nase, European bitterling, common roach, common minnow, common rudd, gudgeon, Kessler's gudgeon, Danube whitefin gudgeon, common barbel, Romanian barbel, crucian carp, The Nemacheilidae are represented by the stone loach, while the species of the family Cobitidae include European weather loach, spined loach, Balkan loach, golden spined loach, Bulgarian spined loach, and \"Cottus haemusi\". The brown trout is the only representative of the Salmonidae. The predominantly marine family Clupeidae is represented by the Pontic shad. The Gobiidae include Kessler's goby, monkey goby and racer goby. \n\nThe Iskar used to be inhabited by one of the six species of sturgeons native to Bulgaria, the sterlet. It could be found upstream as far south as the town of Lukovit but has been extinct from the river and inhabits only the Danube. \n\nThe amphibians are represented by frogs, such as the European fire-bellied toad, yellow-bellied toad, European green toad, agile frog, European tree frog, common spadefoot, as wells as by two newt species—Danube crested newt and Balkan crested newt. The waters of the Iskar are habitat of the European pond turtle, dice snake and grass snake with a number of other reptiles inhabiting the river banks and surrounding areas, such as spur-thighed tortoise, Herman's tortoise, horned viper, Blotched snake, Caspian whipsnake, Aesculapian snake, European green lizard, common wall lizard, Balkan wall lizard, etc.\n\nIskar Glacier on Livingston Island in the South Shetland Islands, Antarctica is named after Iskar River.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2009577", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2009577", "title": "Lake Alakol", "text": "Lake Alakol\n\nAlakol Lake (, \"Alakól\" from Turkic \"motley lake\") is a lake located in the Almaty and Shyghyz provinces, east central Kazakhstan. Its elevation is above sea level.\n\nThe lake is the northwest extension of the region known as the Dzhungarian Gate (Alataw Pass), a narrow valley connects the southern uplands of Kazakhstan with arid northwest China. The Dzhungarian Gate is a fault-bounded valley (see vertical line on the image along the southwest side of the lake) where the elevation of the valley floor is between 350 and 450 m above sea level and the peaks of the Dzhungarsky Alatau range (lower left) reach above sea level. Two well-defined alluvial fans are visible where mountain streams cut through the faulted landscape to the southwest of the lake.\n\nThe surface area of the lake is . It is deep at its maximum depth, with a volume of 58.6 km. A swampy lowland (just above the center of the photo) connects the northwest end of Lake Alakol with the Kosharkol and\nSasykkol (the two lighter-colored lakes in the photo). From the southern tip of Lake Alakol a narrow swampy valley connects it to the freshwater Lake Zhalanashkol (at the bottom edge of the picture).\n\nAlakol Lake, a salt lake, has a drainage basin of and receives water periodically from several streams flowing from the Tarbagatai Mountains. Among them are the southerly draining Urdzhar River at the north end of the lake, and the Emil River, on the lake's north-eastern shore. During seasonal floods, surplus water drains from Lake Zhalanashkol to\nLake Alakol along the 10-km long slough called Zhaman-Otkel ().\n\nThe Alakol State Sanctuary has been created to protect the area for the lake is an important breeding and nesting ground for various wetland birds, notably the very rare relict gull. Piski Island has flocks of flamingo, and 40 species of other birds. UNESCO designated the Alakol Biosphere Reserve as part of its Man and the Biosphere Programme in 2013.\n\nThe largest island in Alakol Lake is Ul'kun-Aral-Tyube. It is located in the center of the lake.\n\nAgricultural activity in this arid region is limited to areas where adequate moisture is available, mainly along ephemeral streambeds and in the deltas and alluvial fans.\n\nThe Bronze Age Alakul culture is situated in the general region of the lake. In the middle of the 1st century BCE the Lake Alakol marked an eastern end of the Kangar state, shown on Chinese maps of the Western territory.\n\n= Description =\nThis salty, drainless lake, located in the North-East of Almaty region near the border with China, is considered unique. It is known about the beneficial properties of the purest Alakol water that it restores strength and strengthens health.\nMany years ago, the famous great silk road passed here. Even in those days, the caravaneers, unable to refuse after a tedious journey to refresh themselves in the waters of the lake, noticed how the skin abrasions on the legs disappeared by themselves, wounds on the body quickly healed, those suffering from sciatica forgot about the pain in the lower back, even quarrels and resentments moved away. \n= Legend =\nDuring the reign of Timur, it was said that this lake \"It-Ichmes\" (translated \"dog will not drink\") because one liter of water contains 8 g of salt. Kimaks (IX-XI centuries) called this lake Gagan, after the city located on the site of the village of Koktuma. The great gift of nature in Kazakhstan-Alakol. \n\n= Medical property =\nModern medical research confirms the healing qualities of lake water. Sea breath of Alakol in a combination with dry, hot, filled with aroma of steppes, the air has a beneficial effect on humans. It was in the resort areas of Alakol that cosmonauts underwent rehabilitation after returning from orbit.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2009578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2009578", "title": "Sir William Mount, 1st Baronet", "text": "Sir William Mount, 1st Baronet\n\nSir William Arthur Mount, 1st Baronet CBE DL (Hartley, Hampshire, 3 August 1866 – 8 December 1930) was a British Conservative Party politician and Member of Parliament for the Newbury constituency. He is the great-grandfather of Conservative politician David Cameron, who was Prime Minister of the United Kingdom from 2010 to 2016.\n\nThe eldest son of William George Mount of Wasing Place, Berkshire and wife Marianne Emily Clutterbuck, he was educated at Eton College and New College, Oxford where he achieved honours in classics and modern history.\n\nHe was called to the Bar by the Inner Temple in 1893. Between 1896 and 1903 he served as assistant private secretary to two Chancellors of Exchequer, Sir Michael Hicks Beach (later Viscount St. Aldwyn) and (from October 1902) Charles Thomson Ritchie (later Baron Ritchie of Dundee).\n\nAfter his father stepped down as member for the South, or Newbury division of Berkshire in 1900 he was elected and served for six years before being defeated at the 1906 general election by his Liberal opponent. In the January 1910 general election he stood again and succeeded in regaining his seat where he remained until resigning in 1922.\n\nHe was deputy lieutenant and magistrate for Berkshire and was elected chairman of the Berkshire county council in 1926.\n\nHe was created a baronet in the 1921 Birthday Honours.\n\nMount married Hilda Lucy Adelaide Low on 9 November 1899 in Kensington, London, Middlesex. Hilda was born 23 May 1875 to William Malcolm Low and wife (m. 30 July 1872), Lady Ida Matilda Alice Feilding. She died 3 April 1950.\n\nMount and his wife were parents to Sir William Mount, 2nd Baronet., Robert Francis Mount and George Richard Mount \n\nHe died while crossing a meadow at Aldermaston while riding with the South Berkshire hounds from his residence at Wasing Place on 8 December 1930.\n"}
{"id": "2009583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2009583", "title": "Gerald Davies", "text": "Gerald Davies\n\nThomas Gerald Reames Davies CBE DL (born 7 February 1945 in Llansaint) is a Welsh former rugby union wing who played international rugby for Wales between 1966 and 1978. He is one of a small group of Welsh players to have won three Grand Slams including Gareth Edwards, JPR Williams, Ryan Jones, Adam Jones, Gethin Jenkins and Alun Wyn Jones.\n\nBorn in Llansaint, Carmarthenshire, under the local coal miners scholarship scheme he studied at Loughborough University, before studying at Emmanuel College, University of Cambridge and appearing for the University rugby team. Davies taught at Christ's Hospital in Horsham, Sussex from 1971 to 1974 when he took up a post with the Sports Council for Wales.\n\nDavies played club rugby for Cardiff RFC and London Welsh. He captained Cardiff for three seasons in the 1970s, his most famous game for Cardiff probably being a 1977–8 Welsh Cup game against Pontypool when he scored four tries (beating his marker and near namesake Gareth Davies on each occasion) to earn his side a 16–11 win.\n\nHe made his international debut on Saturday, 3 December 1966 against Australia in Cardiff, where Wales lost 14–11 – he was to face the Wallabies again in his final appearance for Wales in 1978, this time in Sydney, and again a loss. All in all, he was capped 46 times for his country. He was switched from his original position of centre to the right wing by Wales coach Clive Rowlands on their 1969 tour of Australia and New Zealand, and thereafter played in that position.\n\nDavies toured with the British Lions in 1968 and 1971 and was part of the group of Welsh Seventies legends, ranking in rugby history alongside Gareth Edwards, Barry John, JPR Williams, Phil Bennett and Bobby Windsor. A superb attacking player, he has been called one of the best wingers rugby has ever seen. Davies is best remembered for his try – one of 20 in 46 Tests – in the 1971 Five Nations match against Scotland. The Scots were leading before Davies scored in the corner in the last minute. Backrower John Taylor then kicked his famous conversion to steal victory.\n\nInvited to join the 1974 Lions Tour of South Africa, he turned the opportunity down on his personal uncomfortable position at the consequences and realities of apartheid.\n\nFor Wales: 46 Internationals, of which Wales won 29, lost 14 and drew 3 (points for 758, points against 507). 20 tries, 8 of them before the value of a try was raised to four points in the 1971–72 season (72 points in all).\n\nFor the British Lions: 5 Internationals of which the Lions won two, lost two and drew one (points for 54, points against 53). Davies scored three tries for the Lions during Test games, all of them on the 1971 tour to New Zealand (9 points).\n\nAfter retiring as a player, Davies became a journalist, writing on rugby matters for The Times. He sat on Tasker Watkins committee to reform Welsh rugby. He became chairman of the Wales Youth Agency, and his commitment to youth work earned him a CBE in 2002.\n\nDavies holds Honorary Fellowships from the University of Wales, Lampeter and the University of Wales, Aberystwyth. He was awarded an Honorary Fellowship from Cardiff University in a graduation ceremony held on 15 July 2008. On 18 July 2008, he received an honorary degree from Loughborough University for services to sport and journalism. He is also a Deputy Lieutenant of Gwent.\n\nIn November 2007 he was announced as the manager of the 2009 British and Irish Lions tour to South Africa. Davies was elected to the post of President of the Welsh Rugby Union in September 2019 and took up the role in November 2019.\n\n"}
{"id": "2009588", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2009588", "title": "610 Office", "text": "610 Office\n\nThe 610 Office is, or was, a security agency in the People's Republic of China. Named for the date of its creation on June 10, 1999, it was established for the purpose of coordinating and implementing the persecution of Falun Gong. Because it is a Communist Party-led office with no formal legal mandate, it is sometimes described as an extralegal organisation. The 610 Office is the implementation arm of the Central Leading Group on Dealing with the Falun Gong (CLGDF), also known as the Central Leading Group on Dealing with Heretical Religions. In March, 2018, the office was reorganized and its functions delegated to the Central Political and Legal Affairs Commission and the Ministry of Public Security.\n\nThe central 610 Office has traditionally been headed by a high-ranking member of the Communist Party's Politburo Standing Committee, and it frequently directs other state and party organs in the anti-Falun Gong campaign. It is closely associated with the powerful Political and Legislative Affairs Committee of the Communist Party of China. Local 610 Offices are also established at provincial, district, municipal and neighborhood levels, and are estimated to number approximately 1,000 across the country.\n\nThe main functions of the 610 Offices include coordinating anti-Falun Gong propaganda, surveillance and intelligence collection, and the punishment and \"reeducation\" of Falun Gong adherents. The office is reportedly involved in the extrajudicial sentencing, coercive reeducation, torture, and sometimes death of Falun Gong practitioners.\n\nSince 2003, the 610 Office's mission has been expanded to include targeting other religious and qigong groups deemed heretical or harmful by the Communist Party (CCP), though Falun Gong remains its main priority.\n\nFalun Gong, also known as Falun Dafa, is a form of spiritual qigong practice that involves meditation, energy exercises, and a moral philosophy drawing on Buddhist tradition. The practice was introduced by Li Hongzhi in Northeast China in the spring of 1992, towards the end of China's \"qigong boom.\"\n\nFalun Gong initially enjoyed considerable official support during the early years of its development, and amassed a following of millions. By the mid-1990s, however, Chinese authorities sought to rein in the influence of qigong practices, enacting more stringent requirements on the country’s various qigong denominations. In 1996, possibly in response to the escalating pressure to formalize ties with the party-state, Falun Gong filed to withdraw from the state-run qigong association. Following this severance of ties to the state, the group came under increasing criticism and surveillance from the country’s security apparatus and propaganda department. Falun Gong books were banned from further publication in July 1996, and state-run news outlets began criticizing the group as a form of \"feudal superstition,\" whose \"theistic\" orientation was at odds with the official ideology and national agenda.\n\nOn April 25, 1999, over 10,000 Falun Gong adherents demonstrated quietly near the Zhongnanhai government compound to request official recognition and an end to the escalating harassment against them. Security czar and politburo member Luo Gan was the first to draw attention to the gathering crowd. Luo reportedly called Communist Party general secretary Jiang Zemin, and demanded a decisive solution to the Falun Gong problem.\n\nA group of five Falun Gong representatives presented their demands to then-Premier Zhu Rongji and, apparently satisfied with his response, the group dispersed peacefully. Jiang Zemin was reported to have been deeply angered by the event, however, and expressed concern over the fact that a number of high-ranking bureaucrats, Communist Party officials, and members of the military establishment had taken up Falun Gong. That evening, Jiang disseminated a letter through Party ranks ordering that Falun Gong must be crushed.\n\nOn 7 June 1999, Jiang Zemin convened a meeting of the Politburo to address the Falun Gong issue. In the meeting, Jiang described Falun Gong as a grave threat to Communist Party authority—\"something unprecedented in the country since its founding 50 years ago\"—and ordered the creation of a special leading group within the party's Central Committee to \"get fully prepared for the work of disintegrating [Falun Gong].\"\n\nOn 10 June, the 610 Office was formed to handle day-to-day coordination of the anti-Falun Gong campaign. Luo Gan was selected to helm of the office, whose mission at the time was described as studying, investigating, and developing a \"unified approach…to resolve the Falun Gong problem.\" The office was not created with any legislation, and there are no provisions describing its precise mandate. Nonetheless, it was authorized “to deal with central and local, party and state agencies, which were called upon to act in close coordination with that office,” according to UCLA professor James Tong.\n\nOn 17 June 1999, the 610 Office came under the newly created Central Leading Group for Dealing with Falun Gong, headed by Politburo Standing Committee member Li Lanqing. Four other deputy directors of the Central Leading Group also held high-level positions in the Communist Party, including minister of the propaganda department, Ding Guangen. The leaders of the 610 Office and CLGDF were \"able to call on top government and party officials to work on the case and draw on their institutional resources,\" and had personal access to the Communist Party general secretary and the Premier.\n\nJournalist Ian Johnson, whose coverage of the crackdown on Falun Gong earned him a Pulitzer Prize, wrote that the job of the 610 Office was \"to mobilize the country's pliant social organizations. Under orders from the Public Security Bureau, churches, temples, mosques, newspapers, media, courts and police all quickly lined up behind the government's simple plan: to crush Falun Gong, no measures too excessive. Within days a wave of arrests swept China. By the end of 1999, Falun Gong adherents were dying in custody.”\n\nThe 610 Office is managed by top echelon leaders of the Communist Party of China, and the CLGDF that oversees the 610 Office has, since its inception, been helmed by a senior member of the Politburo Standing Committee. A list of 610 Office Chiefs, including their time in that position, includes Li Lanqing (1999–2003), Luo Gan (2003–2007), Zhou Yongkang (2007–2012), Li Dongsheng (2013), Liu Jinguo (2013-2015), Fu Zhenghua (2015-2016), and most recently Huang Ming (2016).\n\nThe practice of appointing top-ranked Party authorities to run the CLGDF and 610 Office was intended to ensure that they outranked other departmental officials. According to James Tong, the 610 Office is situated \"several administrative strata\" above organizations such as the State Administration of Radio, Film, and Television, Xinhua News Agency, China Central Television, and the News and Publications Bureau. The 610 Office plays the role of coordinating the anti-Falun Gong media coverage in the state-run press, as well influencing other party and state entities, including security agencies, in the anti-Falun Gong campaign.\n\nCook and Lemish speculate that the 610 Office was created outside the traditional state-based security system for several reasons: first, a number of officials within the military and security agencies were practicing Falun Gong, leading Jiang and other CPC leaders to fear that these organizations had already been quietly compromised; second, there was a need for a nimble and powerful organization to coordinate the anti-Falun Gong campaign; third, the creation of a top-level party organization sent a message down the ranks that the anti-Falun Gong campaign was a priority; and finally, CPC leaders did not want the anti-Falun Gong campaign to be hindered by legal or bureaucratic restrictions, and thus established the 610 Office extrajudicially.\n\nSoon after the creation of the central 610 Office, parallel 610 Offices were established at each administrative level wherever populations of Falun Gong practitioners were present, including the provincial, district, municipal, and sometime neighborhood levels. In some instances, 610 Offices have been established within large corporations and universities. Each office takes orders from the 610 Office one administrative level above, or from the Communist Party authorities at the same organizational level. In turn, the local 610 Offices influence the officers of other state and party bodies, such as media organizations, local public security bureaus, and courts.\n\nThe structure of the 610 Office overlaps with the Communist Party’s Political and Legislative Affairs Committee (PLAC). Both Luo Gan and Zhou Yongkang oversaw both the PLC and the 610 Office simultaneously. This overlap is also reflected at local levels, where the 610 Office is regularly aligned with the local PLAC, sometimes even sharing physical offices.\n\nThe individual 610 Offices at local levels show minor variations in organizational structure. One example of how local offices are organized comes from Leiyang city in Hunan province. There, the 610 Office consisted in 2008 of a \"composite group\" and an \"education group.\" The education group was in charge of \"propaganda work\" and the \"transformation through reeducation\" of Falun Gong adherents. The composite group was in charge of administrative and logistics tasks, intelligence collection, and the protection of confidential information.\nJames Tong wrote that the Party's decision to run the anti-Falun Gong campaign through the CLGDF and the 610 Office reflected \"a pattern of regime institutional choice\" to use \"\"ad hoc\" committees rather than permanent agencies, and invested power in the top party echelon rather than functional state bureaucracies.\"\n\nRelatively little is known about recruiting processes for local 610 Offices. In rare instances where such information is available, 610 officers appeared to have been drawn from other party or state agencies (such as the Political and Legislative Committee staff or Public Security Bureaus). Hao Fengjun, a defector and former officer with the 610 Office in Tianjin City, was one such officer. Hao had previously worked for the Public Security Bureau in Tianjin, and was among the officers selected to be seconded to the newly created 610 Office. According to Hao, few officers volunteered for a position in the 610 Office, so selections were made through a random draw. Some 610 Offices conduct their own recruiting efforts to bring in staff with university degrees.\n\nIn order to ensure compliance with the Party's directives against Falun Gong, the 610 offices implemented a responsibility system that extended down to the grassroots levels of society. Under this system, the local officials were held accountable for all Falun Gong-related outcomes under their jurisdiction, and a system of punitive fines were imposed on regions and officials who failed to adequately persecute Falun Gong. \"This showed that, instead of creating a modern system to rule China, the government still relied on an ad hoc patchwork of edicts, orders and personal connections,\" wrote Johnson.\n\nAn example of this responsibility system was shown in the handling of protesters traveling to Beijing in the early years of the persecution. After the persecution of Falun Gong began in 1999, hundreds of Falun Gong practitioners traveled daily to Tiananmen Square or to petitioning offices in Beijing to appeal for their rights. In order to stem the flow of protesters in the capital, the central 610 Office held local authorities responsible for ensuring that no one from their region went to Beijing. \"The provincial government fined mayors and heads of counties for each Falun Gong practitioner from their district who went to Beijing,\" wrote Johnson. The mayors and county leaders then fined the heads of their local 610 offices or PLAC branches, who in turn fined the village chiefs, who fined the police. The police administered punishment to the Falun Gong practitioners, and regularly demanded money from them to recoup the costs. Johnson wrote that \"The fines were illegal; no law or regulation has ever been issued in writing that lists them.\" Government officials announced them only orally in meetings. \"There was never to be anything in writing because they didn't want it made public,\" one official told Johnson.\n\nSurveillance of Falun Gong practitioners and intelligence collection is among the chief functions of 610 Offices. At the local levels, this involves monitoring workplaces and residences to identify Falun Gong practitioners, making daily visits to the homes of known (or \"registered\") Falun Gong practitioners, or coordinating and overseeing 24-hour monitoring of practitioners. The 610 Office does not necessarily conduct the surveillance directly; instead, it orders local authorities to do so, and has them report at regular intervals to the 610 Office. Basic-level 610 Offices relay the intelligence they have collected up the operational chain to the 610 Office above them. In many instances, the surveillance is targeted towards Falun Gong practitioners who had previously recanted the practice while in prison or labor camps, and is intended to prevent \"recidivism.\"\n\nThe 610 Office's intelligence collection efforts are bolstered through he cultivation of paid civilian informants. 610 Offices at local levels have been found to offer substantial monetary rewards for information leading to the capture of Falun Gong practitioners, and 24-hour hotlines have been created for civilians to report on Falun Gong-related activity. In some locales, 'responsibility measures' are enacted whereby workplaces, schools, neighborhood committees and families are held accountable for monitoring and reporting on Falun Gong practitioners within their ranks.\n\nIn addition to domestic surveillance, the 610 Office is allegedly involved in foreign intelligence. Hao Fengjun, the former 610 officer-turned defector from Tianjin, testified that his job at the 610 Office involved collating and analyzing intelligence reports on overseas Falun Gong populations, including in the United States, Canada and Australia.\n\nIn 2005, a Chinese agent working with the Chinese embassy in Berlin recruited a German Falun Gong practitioner Dr. Dan Sun to act as an informant. The agent reportedly arranged a meeting for Sun with two men who purported to be scholars of Chinese medicine interested in researching Falun Gong, and Sun agreed to pass information to them, ostensibly hoping to further their understanding of the practice. The men were in fact high-ranking agents of the 610 Office in Shanghai. Sun maintained that he had no knowledge the men he was corresponding with were Chinese intelligence agents, but because he cooperated with them, he was nonetheless convicted of espionage in 2011. According to Der Spiegel, the case demonstrated \"how important fighting [Falun Gong] is to the [Chinese] government,\" and \"points to the extremely offensive approach that is sometimes being taken by the Chinese intelligence agencies.\"\n\nPropaganda is among the core functions of the 610 Office, both at the central and local levels. The CLGDF includes high-ranking members of the Communist Party's propaganda department, including the minister of propaganda and deputy head of the Central Leading Group on Propaganda and Ideological Work. This, coupled with the 610 Office's organizational position above the main news and propaganda organs, gives it sufficient influence to direct the anti-Falun Gong propaganda efforts at the central level.\n\nTong notes that the first \"propaganda assaults\" on the Falun Gong were launched in the leading state-run newspapers in late June, 1999—shortly after the establishment of the 610 office, but before the campaign against Falun Gong had been officially announced. The effort was overseen by Ding Guangen in his capacity as the deputy leader of the Central Leading Group for Dealing with Falun Gong and the country's propaganda chief. The initial media attacks contained only veiled, indirect references to Falun Gong, and their content aimed to deride \"superstition\" and extol the virtues of atheism. In the weeks leading up to the official launch of the campaign, the CLGDF and the 610 Office set to work preparing a large number of books, editorials, and television programs denouncing the group, which were made public after 20 July 1999 when the campaign against Falun Gong officially began.\n\nIn the months following July 1999, David Ownby writes that the country's media apparatus \"was churning out hundreds of articles, books, and television reports against Falun Gong. The Chinese public had not witnessed such overkill since the heyday of the Cultural Revolution.\" State propaganda initially used the appeal of scientific rationalism to argue that Falun Gong's worldview was in \"complete opposition to science\" and communism; the \"People's Daily\" asserted on 27 July 1999, that it \"was a struggle between theism and atheism, superstition and science, idealism and materialism.\" Other rhetoric appearing in the state-run press centered on charges that Falun Gong had misled followers and was dangerous to health. To make the propaganda more accessible to the masses, the government published comic books, some of which compared Falun Gong’s founder to Lin Biao and Adolf Hitler.\n\nThe Central 610 Office also directs local 610 Offices to carry out propaganda work against Falun Gong. This includes working with local media, as well as conducting grassroots campaigns to \"educate\" target audiences in schools and universities, state-run enterprises, and social and commercial enterprises. In 2008, for instance, the central 610 Office issued a directive to engage in propaganda work intended to prevent Falun Gong from \"interfering with\" the Beijing Olympics. The campaign was referenced on government web sites in every Chinese province.\n\n610 Offices work with local security agencies to monitor and capture Falun Gong adherents, many of whom are then sentenced administratively to reeducation-through-labor camps (RTL), or, if they continue to practice and advocate for Falun Gong, sentenced to prison. The number of Falun Gong adherents detained in China is estimated to be in the hundreds of thousands; in some facilities, Falun Gong practitioners are in the majority.\n\n610 Offices throughout China maintain an informal network of \"transformation-through-reeducation\" facilities. These facilities are used specifically for ideological reprogramming of Falun Gong practitioners, whereby they are subjected to physical and mental coercion in an effort to have them renounce Falun Gong. In 2001, the central 610 Office began ordering \"all neighborhood committees, state institutions and companies\" to begin using the transformation facilities. No Falun Gong practitioners were to be spared, including students and the elderly. The same year, the 610 Office reportedly relayed orders that those who actively practice Falun Gong must be sent to prisons or labor camps, and those who did not renounce their belief in Falun Gong were to be socially isolated and monitored by families and employers.\n\nIn 2010, the central 610 Office initiated a three-year campaign to intensify the \"transformation\" of known Falun Gong practitioners. Documents from local 610 Offices across the country revealed the details of the campaign, which involved setting transformation quotas, and required local authorities to forcefully take Falun Gong practitioners into transformation-through-reeducation sessions. If they failed to recant their practice, the practitioners would be sent to labor camps.\n\nIn addition to prisons, labor camps and transformation facilities, the 610 Office can arbitrarily compel mentally healthy Falun Gong practitioners into psychiatric facilities. In 2002, it was estimated that approximately 1,000 Falun Gong adherents were being held against their will in mental hospitals, where reports of abuse were common.\n\nThe majority of detained Falun Gong practitioners are sentenced administratively to reeducation-through-labor camps, though several thousand have been condemned to longer sentences in prisons, often under the charge of \"using a heretical organization to undermine the implementation of the law\"—a vaguely worded provision that often carries sentences exceeding ten years.\n\nChinese human rights lawyers have charged that the 610 Office regularly interferes with legal cases involving Falun Gong practitioners, subverting the ability of judges to adjudicate independently. Attorney Jiang Tianyong has noted that cases where the defendants are Falun Gong practitioners are decided by the local 610 Offices, rather than through recourse to legal standards. In November 2008, two lawyers seeking to represent Falun Gong practitioners in Heilongjiang noted that the presiding judge in the case was seen meeting with 610 Office agents. Other lawyers, including Gao Zhisheng, Guo Guoting and Wang Yajun have alleged that the 610 Office interfered with their ability to meet with Falun Gong clients or defend them in court.\n\nOfficial documents support the allegation of interference by the 610 Office. In 2009, two separate documents from Jilin province and Liaoning Province described how legal cases against Falun Gong practitioners must be approved and/or audited by the 610 Office. The 610 Office's organizational proximity to the CPC's Political and Judicial Committee better enables it to exercise influence with the Supreme People's Court and Ministry of Justice, both at the central level and with their counterparts at local levels.\n\nSeveral sources have reported 610 officers as being involved in or ordering the torture of Falun Gong adherents in custody. In a letter to Chinese leaders in 2005, prominent human rights lawyer Gao Zhisheng relayed accounts of 610 officers beating and sexually assaulting Falun Gong practitioners: “of all the true accounts of incredible violence that I have heard, of all the records of the government’s inhuman torture of its own people, what has shaken me most is the routine practice on the part of the 6–10 Office and the police of assaulting women’s genitals,” wrote Gao. Defector Hao Fengjun described witnessing one of his 610 Office colleagues beating an elderly female Falun Gong practitioner with an iron bar. The event helped catalyze Hao's decision to defect to Australia. The 2009 report of the UN Special Rapporteur on Extrajudicial Killings relayed allegations that the 610 Office was involved in the torture deaths of Falun Gong practitioners ahead of the 2008 Beijing Olympics.\n\nIan Johnson of the Wall Street Journal reported in 2000 that Falun Gong practitioners were tortured to death in \"transformation-through-reeducation\" facilities that are run by the 610 Office. The central 610 Office had informed local authorities that they could use any means necessary to prevent Falun Gong practitioners from traveling to Beijing to protest the ban—an order that reportedly resulted in widespread abuse in custody.\n\nIn 2003, the name of the Central Leading Group for Dealing with Falun Gong was changed to the \"Central Leading Group on Dealing with Heretical Religions.\" The same year, its mandate was expanded to include disposing of 28 other \"heretical religions\" and \"harmful qigong practices\". Although Falun Gong continues to be the 610 Office's primary concern, there is evidence of local offices targeting members of other groups, some of which identify as Buddhist or Protestant denominations. This include carrying out surveillance against members, engaging in propaganda efforts, and detaining and imprisoning members.\n\nIn some cases, the 610 Office performs functions unrelated to the monitoring and persecution of unrecognized religions. For instance, the \"Economist\" reported that 610 officers were involved in enforcing the house arrest of Chen Guangcheng, a blind human rights lawyer best known for his opposition to forced abortions and compulsory sterilizations.\n\nIn 2008, a new set of \"leading groups\" appeared with the mandate of \"maintaining stability.\" Corresponding local offices were established in every district in major coastal cities, being tasked with \"ferreting out\" anti-Communist Party elements. The branch offices for Maintaining Stability overlap significantly with local 610 Offices, sometimes sharing offices, staff, and leadership.\n\nCook and Lemish write that the increased reliance on ad hoc committees such as the 610 Office and stability maintenance offices may indicate a sense among Communist Party leaders that the existing state security services are ineffective in meeting its needs. \"That these officials are increasingly relying on more arbitrary, extra-legal, and personalized security forces to protect their hold on power does not only bode badly for China's human rights record. It also threatens the stability of internal CCP politics should 610 Office work become politicized,\" they write.\n\nOn March 19, 2018, by publishing a document dated March 21, it was announced that the 610 Office was being abolished and its functions transferred to the Central Political and Legal Affairs Commission and the Ministry of Public Security. Hong Kong scholar Edward Irons reported in February 2019 that what had been \"abolished\" was the Central 610 Office, while local offices remained active. The scholar also noticed that the reorganization strengthened, rather than softening, the repression of banned religious groups, and that another structure within the Ministry of Public Security, the Ministry of Public Security Anti-Xie-Jiao Bureau (公安部反邪教局: \"xiejiao\" is a term often translated as \"cults\" or \"evil cults\" but Irons and other scholars prefer the translation \"heterodox teachings\"), which was always parallel but separated from the 610 Office, also continues its independent activities.\n"}
{"id": "2009596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2009596", "title": "Manus languages", "text": "Manus languages\n\nThe Manus languages are a subgroup of about two dozen Oceanic languages located on Manus Island and nearby offshore islands in Manus Province of Papua New Guinea. The exact number of languages is difficult to determine because they form a dialect continuum (Blust 2007:302). The name 'Manus' (or 'Moanus') originally designated an ethnic group whose members spoke closely related languages and whose coastal dwellers tended to build their houses on stilts out over the sea (Bowern 2011:6).\n\nNowadays the whole population of Manus Province may call themselves 'Manus' people, so the original Manus are distinguished as \"Manus tru\" 'real Manus' (or 'Manus sensu stricto'). The language of the Manus people most intensively studied by anthropologists, from Georg Thilenius in the early 1900s through Margaret Mead in the mid-1900s, is now called Titan (Bowern 2011).\n\nAccording to Lynch, Ross, & Crowley (2002), the structure of the family is:\n\n\nOne very distinctive phonological trait of these languages is the presence of prenasalized trills (Blust 2007). The bilabial trill , which can be spelled \"mb\" or \"br,\" only occurs before , and sounds like in other environments. The alveolar trill , spelled \"ndr\" or \"dr,\" has no such distributional limitations (2007:303).\n\n"}
{"id": "2009597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2009597", "title": "McSorley's Old Ale House", "text": "McSorley's Old Ale House\n\nMcSorley's Old Ale House, generally known as McSorley's, is the oldest \"Irish\" saloon in New York City. Opened in the mid-19th century at 15 East 7th Street, in today's East Village neighborhood of Manhattan, it was one of the last of the \"Men Only\" pubs, admitting women only after legally being forced to do so in 1970.\n\nThe aged artwork, newspaper articles covering the walls, sawdust floors, and the Irish waiters and bartenders give McSorley's an atmosphere reminiscent of \"Olde New York\". No piece of memorabilia has been removed from the walls since 1910, and there are many items of \"historical\" paraphernalia in the bar, such as Houdini's handcuffs, which are connected to the bar rail. There are also wishbones hanging above the bar; supposedly they were hung there by boys going off to World War I, to be removed when they returned, so the wishbones that are left are from those who never returned.\n\nTwo of McSorley's mottos are \"Be Good or Be Gone\", and \"We were here before you were born\". Prior to the 1970 ruling, the motto was \"Good Ale, Raw Onions and No Ladies\"; the raw onions can still be had as part of McSorley's cheese platter.\n\n\"New York\" magazine considered McSorley's to be one of New York City's \"Top 5 Historic Bars\".\n\nWhen it opened, the saloon was originally called \"The Old House at Home\". McSorley's has long claimed that it opened its doors in 1854; however, historical research has shown that the site was a vacant lot from 1860 to 1861.\n\nThe evidence for the 1854 date was considerable, but second-hand. A document at the Museum of the City of New York from 1904, in founder John McSorley's hand, declares it was established in 1854, and a \"New York Tribune\" article from 1895 states it \"has stood for 40 years. . . \" a short distance from Cooper Union. A 1913 article in \"Harper's Weekly\" declares that \"This famous saloon ... is sixty years old.\"\n\nAccording to a 1995 \"New York Times\" \"Streetscapes\" article by Christopher Gray, the census taker who visited the Irish-born McSorley in 1880 recorded the year the founder of the pub first arrived in the United States as 1855, but immigration records show that he arrived on January 23, 1851, at the age of 18, accompanied by Mary McSorley, who was 16. When confronted with the fact that the 1880 census did not contain this entry, Gray corrected it to 1900 in his book. John McSorley first appeared in city directories in 1862, and the building his bar occupies was built no earlier than 1858, according to city records.\n\nMcSorley's is included within the East Village/Lower East Side Historic District, created by the New York City Landmarks Preservation Commission in 2012. In the district's designation report, the building's date of construction is given as \"c.1865\", but it notes that indirect evidence may indicate that there was a small structure on the lot before that, since the value of the lot increased between 1848 and 1856, while that of surrounding lots did not, which may be explained by the existence of an unrecorded structure. By 1861 there was a two-story building on the lot, according to tax records, and by 1865 the present five-story one, but it is \"unclear\" if the former was extended upwards or a new building was constructed.\n\nFounding owner John McSorley died in 1910 at the age of 87. In 1936 it was sold by his son Bill to Daniel O’Connell, a retired policeman and longtime customer. After O'Connell's death three years later, his daughter Dorothy O’Connell Kirwan assumed ownership. Upon her death in 1974 and that of her husband the following year, ownership passed briefly to their son Danny before the most recent proprietor, Matthew \"Matty\" Maher, who purchased the bar in 1977 and owned it until his death in January of 2020.\n\nWomen were not allowed in McSorley's until August 10, 1970, after National Organization for Women attorneys Faith Seidenberg and Karen DeCrow filed a discrimination case against the bar in District Court and won. The two entered McSorley's in 1969, and were refused service, which was the basis for their lawsuit for discrimination. The case decision made the front page of \"The New York Times\" on June 26, 1970. The suit, \"Seidenberg v. McSorleys' Old Ale House\" (1970, United States District Court, S. D. New York) established that, as a public place, the bar could not violate the Equal Protection Clause of the United States Constitution. The bar was then forced to admit women, but it did so \"kicking and screaming\". In 1970 Barbara Shaum became the bar's first female patron. With the ruling allowing women to be served, the bathroom became unisex. Sixteen years later, in 1986, a ladies room was installed.\n\nUntil 2011, McSorley's maintained a mouser cat within its premises until a law was passed ending the practice. In November 2016, the establishment was briefly closed by the New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene due to violations of health code. It reopened the next week.\n\nIn 2017, McSorley's added Feltman's of Coney Island Hot Dogs to their menu, the first time the menu was altered in over fifty years. Feltman's owner, Michael Quinn, was a long time employee at McSorley's, and during the late 19th century, Feltman's Restaurant at Coney Island was a popular destination for the McSorley family.\n\nIn January 2020 owner Matty Maher died.\n\nNotable people who have visited McSorley's include Abraham Lincoln, Ulysses S. Grant, Teddy Roosevelt, Peter Cooper, and Boss Tweed. Cultural icons such as Woody Guthrie, Hunter S. Thompson, Brendan Behan, Paul Blackburn, LeRoi Jones, Christopher Morley, Gilbert Sorrentino, and George Jean Nathan, frequented the tavern. Folk singer/guitarist Dave Van Ronk used photos of himself outside the doors for album covers, and Wavy Gravy read poetry there. Dustin Hoffman was a patron.\n\nIn his 1923 poem \"i was sitting in mcsorley's\", poet E. E. Cummings described McSorley's as \"the ale which never lets you grow old\". He also described the bar as \"snug and evil\". McSorley's was the focus of several articles by \"New Yorker\" author Joseph Mitchell. One collection of his stories was entitled \"McSorley's Wonderful Saloon\" (1943). According to Mitchell, the Ashcan school painters John Sloan, George Luks and Stuart Davis were all regulars. Sloan's 1912 painting of the bar is in the collection of the Detroit Institute of Arts. The bar has also been painted by Harry McCormick.\n\nAfter the New York Rangers hockey team won the Stanley Cup in 1994, they took the cup to McSorley's and drank out of it; the resulting dent caused the NHL to take the trophy back for several days for repairs.\n\nMcSorley's Old Ale House has no other locations; however, a company called Eclipse Management has opened four McSorley's Ale Houses in Hong Kong and Macau \"based loosely on the appearance of the original McSorley's Ale House in lower Manhattan, NYC\". These bars sell McSorley's Ale, but are not associated in any way with McSorley's. \n\n\n\nInformational notes\nCitations\n"}
{"id": "2009599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2009599", "title": "The Painted Desert", "text": "The Painted Desert\n\nThe Painted Desert is a 1931 American pre-Code film released by Pathé Exchange. Produced by E. B. Derr, it was directed by Howard Higgin, who also co-wrote the screenplay with Tom Buckingham. It starred low-budget Western stars William Boyd (in his pre-Hopalong Cassidy days) and Helen Twelvetrees, and featured a young Clark Gable in his talking film debut. The picture was shot mostly on location in Arizona.\n\nTwo cowboy friends, Jeff (J. Farrell MacDonald) and Cash (William Farnum), are traveling through the desert in the southwest U.S., when they come upon a baby who has been abandoned in the back of a covered wagon. They can't leave the defenseless child, so decide to take the baby with them, however, they argue over which of them would be better suited to raising the child. When Cash ends up prevailing in the debate, this creates a lifelong rift between the two friends.\n\nYears later the baby has now grown into a young man, Bill Holbrook (William Boyd), who works with his adoptive father on their cattle ranch. Cash's erstwhile friend, Jeff, has remained in the area where the infant was found and has established his own ranch, centered on the water hole where the entire feud originally began, a feud which is still in full force. Jeff lives with his grown daughter, Mary Ellen (Helen Twelvetrees). The feud escalates when Cash wants to use the water hole on Jeff's property to water his cattle. Jeff is ready to confront Cash in a stand-off, preventing him from watering his cattle on the property Jeff has claimed, assisted by an itinerant cowboy, Rance Brett (Clark Gable), who has been smitten with Mary Ellen's beauty. The confrontation is temporarily avoided when Cash's herd unexpectedly stampedes.\n\nWhen Bill discovers tungsten on Jeff's property, he attempts to use it to close the division between his father and Jeff, however this only results in his father kicking him out. He turns to Jeff, and begins a mining operation, which actually has the opposite effect of Bill's original intention, only exacerbating the tension between Jeff and Cash. Bill and Jeff's partnership also causes tension with Rance, since Mary Ellen now shows an interest in Bill. After a shipment of tungsten which was on its way to pay the loan they had taken out to develop the mine is waylaid, Bill works furiously with the miners to replace it with another load. He is successful. However, as he is celebrating the success of the mine, as well as his impending nuptials with Mary Ellen, the mine is sabotaged by a series of explosions.\n\nEveryone believes the mine sabotage is the work of Cash, but it turns out to have been an act of jealousy on the part of Rance, who confesses, leaving the two old friends to reconcile, and their two children to marry.\n\n\n\"The Painted Desert\" was put on the slate by Pathé Exchange in June 1930. In July it was announced that E.B. Derr had selected Higgin to direct the film, as well as naming the stars of the film, William Boyd and Dorothy Burgess. Later in the month it was reported that Higgin would head to Arizona to begin location scouting for the film, accompanied by fellow director, Tay Garnett, however in August Higgin began scouting in the Arizona desert with the screenwriter, Tom Buckingham. It was announced that the film would employ over 300 extras.\n\nHiggin was familiar with the area, having worked in and around Flagstaff, Arizona as a lumberjack prior to his entering the film industry. Towards the end of August it was announced that Clark Gable would join the cast as the antagonist.\n\nIn September it was announced that Helen Twelvetrees had replaced Burgess in the cast. Tragedy struck the production shortly after filming began when the fourteen-month-old baby playing the role of the infant Bill Holbrook, died while on location. Cause of death was not released. The infant's name was Thais Baer, and she was from Glendale, Arizona. Bert Gilroy was named as assistant director, and production began the first week of September. Shortly after, it was announced that William Farnum and J. Farrell MacDonald had been added to the cast. During production, Charles Craig was replaced in the cast by Jerry Drew. During production, somewhere between twelve and forty actors were seriously injured in a dynamite explosion when the charge went off early during filming, and two crew members lost their lives; the injured included the director, Howard Higgin.\n\nThe film's release was delayed several times. In early October the film's release was announced to be October 26, but by late October that release date was pushed back, to a premiere date of November 20. In the first week of November the cast and crew returned from location in Arizona to finish the interior scenes on the studio lot in Hollywood.\n\nNinety percent of the film was shot in Arizona, between the Painted Desert in Dinosaur Canyon, and Tuba City, Arizona, as well as a nearby Indian reservation. In mid-November it was reported that the recording portion of the film had been completed. Clarence Kolster edited the film during December 1930. By November, advertisements promoting the film were being released to the trade papers.\n\nProduced by Pathé Exchange, the film would become part of the RKO Radio Pictures library when they purchased the studio in March, after which they took over distribution of the film.\n\nMost reviews of the film were positive. Motion Picture Magazine thought the film was \"worth seeing\", and complimented the acting, the message and the cinematography. They stated that while you could call the plot \"... hokum if you will, it's the hokum of which life is made and the spectacle of the clasped hands at the end brings an authentic thrill\". The \"National Board of Review Magazine\" called the film an \"exciting and well done\" melodrama.\n\n\"Picture Play\" magazine, while complimented the acting, commented that it could not \"...make a picture unaided by a story\", and declaring the film was \"duller and more pointless picture ...\" than any they had ever seen.\n\nIn 1958, the film entered the public domain in the USA due to the copyright claimants' failure to renew the copyright registration in the 28th year after publication.\n\nIt was remade by RKO in 1938 as \"Painted Desert\". The studio cut several action scenes directly from the negative of their earlier version for insertion into the remake.\n\n\"The Painted Desert\" has seen numerous budget public domain label releases on VHS and DVD. The film's original release length was 83:43, but all home video releases are of its edited 75-minute reissue version, missing the action scenes appropriated for the remake. In 2019, Kino Lorber released it alongside \"The Pay-Off\" (1930) and \"The Silver Horde\" (1930) on their \"RKO Classic Adventures\" Blu-ray and DVD. These transfers were restored by Lobster Films of France, but inexplicably \"The Painted Desert\" is still in its truncated form, despite its missing scenes being present in the extant 1938 remake.\n\nThe love interest in this film, Helen Twelvetrees, was a very popular actress in the early 1930s, but would be let go by the studio in 1936, at which point she retired from film. She was the answer to a popular Johnny Carson gag on \"The Tonight Show\", \"Who was Rin Tin Tin's favorite actress?\"\n\nA myth about Gable evolved regarding this film. It was said that he did not know how to ride a horse prior to this film, and learned specifically for his supporting role in \"The Painted Desert\". However, Gable had been a horseman since his early years, and merely took several lessons in Griffith Park prior to the commencement of filming in order to hone his skills.\n\nWilliam Farnum was a major star during the silent era in Hollywood, starring in one of the earliest and most popular Westerns, the 1914 film \"The Spoilers\". When he was injured during the filming of 1924's \"The Man Who Fights Alone\", that effectively ended his leading man career. However, he would carry on as a character actor until his death in 1953.\n\nThe 1938 remake was directed by David Howard and starred George O'Brien, Laraine Johnson, and Ray Whitley.\n\nThe film is notable for the superior cinematography of the Arizona desert by Edward Snyder.\n\n"}
{"id": "2009604", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2009604", "title": "Minnesota State Community and Technical College", "text": "Minnesota State Community and Technical College\n\nMinnesota State Community and Technical College (M State) is a public community and technical college with multiple campuses in Minnesota. The college is a member of the Minnesota State Colleges and Universities system. It offers more than 70 career and liberal arts programs on its campuses and more than 25 online programs and majors through its eCampus. M State enrolls more than 9,000 campus-based and online students annually.\n\nM State was created in 2003 with the merger of Fergus Falls Community College and three campuses of Northwest Technical College. The goal of the merger was to create a comprehensive community college to provide technical education and coursework for students interested in pursuing a bachelor's degree. Each of the campuses has existed as a college for 50 years or more.\n\nThe college offers the Associate in Arts university transfer, Associate in Fine Arts, Associate in Science and Associate in Applied Science degrees, certificate programs and diplomas. Its largest programs are liberal arts transfer, nursing, business, radiologic technology and computer-related degree programs. Unique programs include electrical line worker, equine science, power sports technology, American Sign Language, entrepreneurship and medical laboratory technician.\n\nThe M State Spartans compete in the NJCAA in football, volleyball, men's and women's basketball, baseball, softball and men's and women's golf.\n\n"}
{"id": "2009608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2009608", "title": "Vidikovac", "text": "Vidikovac\n\nVidikovac () is an urban neighborhood of Belgrade, the capital of Serbia. It is located in Belgrade's municipality of Rakovica.\n\nVidikovac is located on the top of the hill of the same name, in the eastern part of the municipality on the border of the municipality of Čukarica, along the road of \"Ibarska magistrala\". It is bordered by the neighbourhoods of Rakovica to the west, Kneževac to the south, Labudovo Brdo further to the south and Cerak Vinogradi to the north. To the west, across the \"Ibarska magistrala\" is mostly non-urbanized. There is a Branko Copic school in Vidikovac.\n\nThe name of the hill and neighborhood, \"Vidikovac\", is Serbian for lookout, observation point. Vidikovac is projected as a series of skyscrapers (up to 24 floors) constructed in a small concentric circles within larger circles represented by circular streets. The main street curving around the neighborhood is \"Vidikovački venac\", the \"Patrijarha Joanikija\" goes right through the middle of the neighborhood while \"Ibarska magistrala\" and \"Pilota Mihaila Petrovića\" street form the outer border of the neighborhood.\n\nThe area is residential with a highly developing commercial sector since the 1990s. There is a McDonald's restaurant in the neighborhood with the adjoining shopping mall, and opposite is the \"Ibarska magistrala\", a heat plant used for local heating. The population of Vidikovac was 16,098 in 2002.\n\nVidikovačka Padina is the eastern and south-eastern extension of Vidikovac. It makes an urban connection of Vidikovac to the neighborhood of Rakovica (north) and Kneževac, across the Topčiderka river. It is located on the eastern slopes of the Vidikovac hill, hence the name of the neighborhood (\"Vidikovačka padina\", \"Vidikovac slope\"). The main streets in the neighborhood are \"Kneževačka\" and \"Slavka Rodića\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2009614", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2009614", "title": "Glacier (wrestler)", "text": "Glacier (wrestler)\n\nRaymond M. Lloyd (born May 13, 1964) is an American semi-retired martial artist, professional wrestler, and actor. He is best known for his appearances with World Championship Wrestling from 1996 to 1999 under the ring name Glacier.\n\nLloyd was born into a law-enforcement family in Brunswick, Georgia. His father, Harold, served as a commander with the Georgia State Patrol for 28 years; his mother, Lois, worked with the Georgia Driver's License Division prior to her retirement in 1999; and his fraternal twin brother, Ron, is a retired state trooper. A lifelong professional wrestling fan, Lloyd and his brother attended shows at the Jacksonville Coliseum. He graduated from Brunswick High School in 1982, and played offensive tackle for the school football team all four years, becoming its first All-State player in his senior year. He additionally competed for the track and field team, in the shot put and discus.\n\nA skilled martial artist, Lloyd took up Hung Ga at fourteen, later adding other disciplines. His school was owned and taught by a former government agent and a U.S. Marshal, before it closed to the public in 1982. In 1983, he began competing for the World Karate Association in full-contact tournaments, eventually winning the United States Southeastern Super Heavyweight title. During his WKA stint, he was never knocked out or even knocked down; his only loss came on a disqualification. However, when the WKA changed its rules in 1985 to allow kicks from the knee up (they were previously only from the waist up), Lloyd opted to retire from competition in order not to jeopardize his football scholarship by risking injury. He played center for Valdosta State University (the same alma mater as former WCW announcer Scott Hudson), under coach Mike Cavan, and was a teammate of former Atlanta Falcons linebacker Jessie Tuggle during his collegiate career. Lloyd graduated in 1989 with a master's degree in education.\n\nLloyd began his wrestling career shortly after graduation. He was trained by Georgia grappler Fred Avery in a makeshift ring set up in Avery's backyard, and then cut his teeth on the Georgia independent circuit for two years, during which he was given the ring name \"Sugar Ray\" Lloyd by Tommy Rich. Lloyd joined World Championship Wrestling (then the NWA) for their 1989 Great American Bash tour, in which his debut match was a loss to Butch Reed in Albany, Georgia. He recalled in a March 2001 interview with \"WCW Magazine\", \"To be in the same ring with a man that big who could move like that was intimidating.\"\n\nLloyd worked as an assistant high school football coach at Lassiter High in Marietta, and at Valdosta Junior High School, once organizing a one-time pro wrestling event in the Valdosta High school gymnasium in which he participated. During weekends he worked Southern Championship Wrestling shows while receiving further training from Mr. Wrestling II and Bob Armstrong. He moved to Atlanta in 1990, and again as \"Sugar Ray\" Lloyd, tag teamed with Swain as \"The Blazers,\" named such after the Valdosta State athletic mascot. In 1991, \"Pro Wrestling Illustrated\" held a contest for readers to come up with a ring name for Swain. Lloyd additionally competed in the North Georgia Wrestling Alliance, alongside future WCW stars Scotty Riggs, Buff Bagwell, and Disco Inferno.\n\nLloyd's second stint in WCW was when he was booked to be defeated by The Great Muta at a house show in Atlanta. Following that match, at Muta's request, Lloyd joined Muta on a string of WCW house shows before he moved to Japan in 1993. He joined the UWFI as a guest of shootfighter Nobuhiko Takada, and competed against Japanese and American fighters. Lloyd returned to the United States after UWFI folded in 1996, and during a conversation with friend Diamond Dallas Page, he mentioned that he was planning to integrate martial arts into his wrestling, which he had been unable to do during the early days of his career. At Page's request, WCW president Eric Bischoff, a martial arts practitioner himself, met with Lloyd for three hours and signed him to a contract.\n\nBeginning in April 1996, Lloyd's new ring persona, Glacier, a gimmick similar to the \"Mortal Kombat\" character Sub-Zero, was introduced via a series of vignettes during WCW programming that featured the tagline \"Blood Runs Cold\". He was fictionally profiled in the October 1996 issue of \"WCW Magazine\" as having traveled to Japan to study a fighting style that combined martial arts and pro wrestling maneuvers, with a 400-year-old helmet passed down to him by his master instructor. He was then given the name \"Glacier\" by his instructor as a symbolization of the power of the elements.\n\nGlacier was also given one of the most extravagant entrances in wrestling at the time, which consisted of blue laser lights streaming across the arena and synthetic snow falling from the ceiling, while the ring was enveloped in blue lighting. Production costs for the entrance amounted to nearly half a million dollars, while the costume and armor, designed by Andre Freitas of Atlanta-based AFX Studios, cost $35,000. The number 126 was carved into the armor's single breastplate as a reference to his father's badge number. Glacier wore a blue contact lens in his right eye to top off the outfit, which often prompted comments from \"WCW Monday Nitro\" analyst Bobby Heenan, such as \"[He's] half man, half Siamese cat.\" After slowly walking to the ring, he then engaged in a ritual of standing on a center turnbuckle in order to remove his armor and mask, then somersaulting off the buckle and into the center of the ring to perform a kata routine; this process sometimes lasted as long as two minutes. Moreover, since he was a face character, he would bow to the referee and his opponent. To further accentuate the character's image, Lloyd, a natural brunet, temporarily bleached his hair blond from April to December 1997.\n\nGlacier was originally intended to debut in July, but due to the coinciding appearance and immediate impact of the New World Order at the \"Bash at the Beach\" pay-per-view that month, his debut was delayed indefinitely; WCW worked this into a feud with Big Bubba Rogers, who criticized Glacier's hype and the overlong wait for his arrival during interviews on \"Nitro\" with the Dungeon of Doom. His debut finally occurred on September 9, 1996 episode of \"Pro\", when he pinned The Gambler in a match, which was also one of only two matches in which he executed his \"Cryonic Kick\" finisher off the top rope before it was changed to a spinning reverse roundhouse kick, and subsequently to standard side kick. Glacier then defeated Bubba on his \"Nitro\" debut on September 16, ending the brief feud. The original costume and blue lighting were scrapped, however, after only his fourth match, a pinfall victory on \"Nitro\" over Mike Wenner on September 30. Following a subsequent ten-week hiatus off WCW television, he reappeared on \"Nitro\" on December 2, in which he debuted a new ring outfit and entrance music, then pinned Hardbody Harrison in a 60-second squash.\n\nAfter spending the beginning of his WCW career in the midcard, it was not until March 1997 that Glacier was put into his first long-term feud, with Mortis, who was depicted in the new storyline as an Asian pitfighter who was one of eccentric manager James Vandenberg's collection of \"\"rare oddities\"\" and who had shared a history with Glacier. The angle was titled \"Blood Runs Cold\"; the slogan had not been used since the vignettes from the previous year had stopped airing.\n\nGlacier defeated Mortis in the pay-per-view debut for both, at Uncensored on March 16, but after the match, Wrath made his first appearance as Vandenberg's then-unnamed newest charge, and both men double-teamed Glacier. Postmatch assaults by Mortis and Wrath became commonplace after Glacier's \"Nitro\" matches, and on the April 21 episode, his helmet was also stolen by the pair after he defeated Ciclope in less than one minute. His rematch with Mortis at Slamboree on May 18 ended in a disqualification after less than two minutes when Wrath attacked him from behind. Mortis and Wrath then had their way with Glacier for several minutes before he was rescued by Ernest \"The Cat\" Miller, who had entered the ring from the crowd.\n\nOn June 15, Glacier pinned Wrath at The Great American Bash, after which another beating commenced, this time after he was handcuffed to the top rope by Mortis, who himself had been cuffed to the turnbuckle prior to the match in order to prevent outside interference. The very next night on \"Nitro\", Glacier again defeated Mortis and then was attacked for the last time by Mortis and Wrath after Miller again came to his rescue. From then until Bash at the Beach, Glacier wrestled as a tag unit with Miller, mainly in the lower card against luchadors. After Mortis and Wrath finally won their first encounter in the feud at Bash at the Beach on July 13 and ended Glacier's undefeated streak, WCW promptly shut down the angle due to the creative team's inability to further evolve the characters and the storyline. As a result, the backstory between Mortis and Glacier was therefore never revealed.\n\nOn September 1, nearly a year after he had made his official debut, Glacier was handed his first singles loss by Buff Bagwell. He and Miller lost their second consecutive pay-per-view affair in November, to the Faces of Fear at World War 3, and Glacier capped off the year with a squash at the hands of Bill Goldberg on December 27.\n\nDespite an undefeated twelve-month singles period from September 1996 to August 1997, Glacier remained entrenched in the midcard ranks. He was booked as a heel for 1998, starting with an edition of \"WCW Saturday Night\" on January 24 in a rematch alongside Miller against Mortis and Wrath. Glacier and Miller were to fight each other two weeks earlier on the program, but it was called off after Glacier was attacked by Mortis and Wrath offscreen beforehand. However, during the tag match, Glacier turned on Miller, allowing Mortis and Wrath to get the win. This brought the \"Blood Runs Cold\" angle to an official close as Mortis and Wrath were split up from Vandenberg and moved into the singles ranks.\n\nGlacier spent the next three months on a losing streak, losing matches to the likes of Steve McMichael, Prince Iaukea, and Lex Luger on \"Nitro\" and \"Thunder\", while feuding on the side with Chris Adams on \"WCW Saturday Night\" in a battle of superkick finishers.\n\nGlacier then entered a feud with Perry Saturn, starting with an angle in which he cut a promo on the May 11 \"Nitro\" declaring that his Cryonic Kick finisher was his own move and threatened to take out anyone who used it. This prompted a response from Saturn on \"Thunder\" later in the week, in which he lambasted Glacier for his in-ring appearance and his claiming ownership of the superkick. Starting with a pin of Sick Boy on May 18 after Saturn's outside interference was unsuccessful, Glacier then fought a series of matches against several other members of Raven's Flock. He and Saturn then alternated wins on \"WCW Thunder,\" but the most notable aspect of the angle was that Kanyon, who had recently shed the Mortis gimmick, was regularly conducting sneak attacks on Raven and the Flock in various disguises. On the June 4 edition of \"Thunder,\" Kanyon (disguised as referee Nick Patrick) entered the ring and took out Saturn with a Russian legsweep, allowing Glacier to get the win, and flashed the Mortis mask to Glacier before leaving the ring. The feud died down shortly thereafter when Saturn was moved to a new angle involving Raven and the breakup of the Flock. A Glacier-Saturn matchup (won by Saturn) that aired on \"WCW Worldwide\" on September 26 was the last match broadcast on the program before its format was changed to a recap show.\n\nGlacier suffered a severe knee injury during the main event on \"Nitro\" on June 29, in which he lost to then-United States champion Goldberg for the fourth time in what would be his only title challenge in WCW. He kept the extent of the injury hidden until after the match and left the ring under his own power, but after rehabilitation proved unsuccessful, he underwent knee surgery. He was out until the November 5 \"Thunder\", where he offered his support to Miller, who himself had undergone a heel turn. One week later, he returned to ring action for the first time in over four months, and debuted his new finisher, a version of Terry Gordy's Oriental thumb spike (dubbed the \"Ice Pick\"), for a submission victory over Adams.\n\nOn November 16, Glacier, Kanyon, and Wrath reunited for the first and only time since the demise of Blood Runs Cold, when Glacier and Kanyon were scheduled to face each other on \"Nitro\" after Wrath fought Raven in the previous match, but Raven's refusal to wrestle, despite goading by Kanyon, saw it called off. Wrath then took out his frustration by pummeling both Glacier and Kanyon inside the ring before their opening bell, but the match commenced nonetheless with Kanyon ultimately scoring the pin. Glacier made his final WCW pay-per-view appearance with a loss to Wrath at World War 3 on November 22, and closed out the year with another series of matches against Saturn on \"Thunder\" and \"Saturday Night\", in which Miller's manager, Sonny Onoo, repeatedly interfered.\n\nBy early 1999, Glacier was again booked to lose to lower-card opponents so that WCW could finally bury the character and allow Lloyd to transition into a new one. This came to a head on February 6, when he was pinned on \"Saturday Night\" by Al Green. Five days later, a series of skits aired on \"Thunder\" in which Glacier, tired of his gimmick, sold his armor, mask, and helmet to Kaz Hayashi and Miller; Onoo convinced the gullible Hayashi to buy the gear for ten times Glacier's asking price. For a short time, Miller came out to Glacier's music and entrance, while Hayashi wore his armor and mask to the ring.\n\nThough Lloyd had not appeared on television following the end of Glacier, he, along with Gene Okerlund, Alex Wright, and other WCW personalities, attended the public grand opening of the Nitro Grill at the Excalibur Hotel and Casino in Las Vegas on May 22, 1999; the restaurant lasted only sixteen months and closed in September 2000.\n\nOn August 19, Lloyd made his first televised appearance in six months, this time on \"Thunder\" in the first of several promos as Coach Buzz Stern, featuring longtime independent wrestler Luther Biggs. The clips were filmed at the WCW Power Plant and served to introduce the storyline of Stern choosing the clumsy Biggs as his protege, and aired until the end of September, when Biggs was pinned by Bobby Eaton in his in-ring debut on \"Thunder;\" Stern put Biggs in a postmatch full nelson as punishment. Over the following month, Stern served as Biggs' manager for only three additional matches: a squash loss to Meng on \"Thunder\", a pinfall victory over Dave Burkhead on \"Saturday Night,\" and a match against Barry Darsow (wrestling as Blacktop Bully) on \"Worldwide\", which Biggs won only after Stern's outside interference. Though the Stern character was inspired by Lloyd's days as a high school football coach prior to his WCW career, and had received buildup in Mark Madden's weekly WCW.com column, he received an indifferent reception from fans, and after Lloyd himself wrestled his only match as Stern in a November 4 \"Thunder\" loss to Eddie Guerrero, the angle was shelved and both Stern and Biggs were removed from television. Lloyd was one of many wrestlers released by the company on November 21, 1999 as part of a cost-cutting measure.\n\nAlong with Dusty Rhodes, Lloyd co-founded Turnbuckle Championship Wrestling (TCW) in 2000, which held shows throughout the Southeast and whose roster featured additional WCW castoffs such as Scotty Anton (Scotty Riggs), Barry Windham, Big Ron Studd, and Chad Fortune. Lloyd wrestled under his real name, and was the TCW Heavyweight Champion from July to October 2000, when he was dethroned by Windham.\n\nDuring WCW's Mayhem pay-per-view on November 26, a Glacier promo from 1996 was re-broadcast, this time with the tagline \"Blood Runs Colder,\" after which he was openly buried by the announce team. The promos were aired infrequently on \"Nitro\" and \"Thunder\", and during Starrcade. The night after Starrcade, Norman Smiley was seen on \"Nitro\" watching a promo on a backstage monitor, then happily reacting to having \"a real hero\" in WCW.\n\nLloyd returned to WCW in January 2001, and Glacier was now played out in the angle as a superhero parody, with him pledging to watch Smiley's back during matches. In separate contests against Mike Awesome and Bam Bam Bigelow on \"Thunder\", an overpowered Smiley lost decisively both times because Glacier took his time coming to the ring in order to interact with fans. He then entered the ring after the fact to pose for the fans before pushing Smiley out of the way to perform his old kata routine. Though Lloyd never wrestled an actual match, the gimmick was a surprisingly mild success given the previous history of the character (a fan during the Bigelow match was seen on camera holding a sign that read \"Glacier is My Hero\"), but the angle abruptly ended and Glacier was not seen again following a skit on the February 7 edition of \"Thunder\" in which he was pummeled offscreen by Sean O'Haire inside his dressing room.\n\nLloyd left WCW (which ceased operations six weeks later) permanently and returned to the independent circuit. On April 21, he won the TCW tag belts with Jorge Estrada. One of the highlights of Lloyd's wrestling career was fulfilling a childhood dream of winning the NWA World tag team titles, which he accomplished with Jason Sugarman on December 28, 2002, but Sugarman retired shortly after due to a career-ending injury. In 2002, he rejuvenated his Glacier gimmick to team with Big Ron Studd, with whom he won the tag title for the second time in his TCW stint on January 3, and then enjoyed a second reign as TCW Heavyweight Champion.\n\nAfter TCW folded in 2003, Lloyd made sporadic appearances with Georgia Championship Wrestling, and held a backstage position with TNA Wrestling. He again wrestled as Glacier as part of Ultimate Christian Wrestling's \"Ultimate Armageddon Tour 2006\", and participated in the CHIKARA King of Trios tournament in Philadelphia on March 2, 2008, teaming with Los Ice Creams as their mystery partner in a first-round loss against Team Mexico. Lloyd also feuded with TNA and IWA star Ricky Vega on the Florida independent Circuit in 2008.\n\nHe then made a return appearance in the 2009 King of Trios tournament on March 27, 2009, teaming with Al Snow and D'Lo Brown in another first-round loss, this time against The UnStable of Vin Gerard, Colin Delaney, and STIGMA.\n\nHe would make his return to a major wrestling promotion on August 26, 2017, when he entered at #20 in Ring of Honor's 2017 Honor Rumble, where he would be eliminated by Bully Ray.\n\nOn the 1 April 2020 episode of AEW: Dynamite, approximately 45 minutes into the show, Cody Rhodes referred to \"Ray 'Glacier' Lloyd\" as the trainer of a debuting wrestler named Anna Jayy. \n\nIn addition to wrestling, Lloyd has pursued an acting career in both film and television. He had auditioned (unsuccessfully) for a part on the CBS program \"Walker, Texas Ranger\" back in 1997, and though he had expressed interest in an acting career in an interview with WCW journalist Chad Damiani the next year, he finally appeared in his first film, a low-budget movie titled \"Blood Bath,\" in 2002. He guest-starred in the season finale of the USA Network series \"Burn Notice\", which aired on September 20, 2007. Lloyd also worked as a stuntman at Disney-MGM Studios in Orlando, Florida, playing the part of a German flight engineer in the \"Indiana Jones Epic Stunt Spectacular!\" show until November 2004.\n\nLloyd volunteered his time as he contributes as a celebrity to create awareness to programs such as the 8th Annual David Maus Foundation Golf Tournament held at Grand Cypress Golf Club & Hyatt Regency in Orlando, Florida on May 18, 2012. Ray played along with athletes from the NFL such as Mark Carrier, Mark Duper as well MLB former player Barry Larkin, NBA Players Nick Anderson and Bo Outlaw in addition Chris Kirkpatrick of N'Sync and Golfers Jim Thorpe, David Rose and many others.\n\nLloyd also helped raise awareness of Breast Cancer for the non-profit organization Rock Pink in conjunction with \"The Monsters in the Morning\" radio show in the annual Monsters Celebrity Bowling Tournament on June 30, 2012 at Boardwalk Bowling in Orlando, FL. Ray participated on Team Aqua Pool Dealer alongside Hell's Kitchen Season 5 Winner Danny Veltri and Entertainer / Swimming Pool Executive Jim DeBerry.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2009615", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2009615", "title": "London City Mission", "text": "London City Mission\n\nLondon City Mission was set up by David Nasmith on 16 May 1835 in the Hoxton area of east London. The first paid missionary was Lindsay Burfoot. Today it is part of the wider City Mission Movement. \n\nThe London City Mission's early work centred on the poor and destitute, developing a wide range of charitable help including Ragged Schools and ministering to working people. One missionary wrote \"Last year I walked 3,000 miles on London pavements, paid 1,300 visits, 300 of which were to sick and dying cab men.\" Missionaries were also appointed to visit members of London's new fire service. The service's first Chief, James Braidwood, introduced the first such missionary in 1854. Within five years the missionary was visiting nineteen fire stations throughout London, ministering to 450 people (firemen, their wives and dependents). \n\nThe first Ragged School established by the London City Mission was in 1835 in a disused stable in the City of Westminster. It was established by the missionary Andrew Walker with a charitable donation fund-raised by Lord Shaftesbury amongst his colleagues in, and visitors to, the Houses of Parliament. Lord Shaftesbury became an ardent supporter of the Mission and YMCA's founder George Williams (YMCA) was an early president, until his death in 1905. \n\nLCM was established as a joint venture by members of different Protestant denominations. \n• Its aim was to “go to the people of London, especially the poor, to bring them to an acquaintance with Jesus Christ as Saviour, and to do them good by every means in their power.” \n• Its method was to recruit and pay full-time workers (all men at that time), assigning to each a “district” that he was to visit frequently, going from door to door. \n• Its goal was to draw people into local churches. \nLCM was a pioneering organisation, in:\n• inter-denominational evangelism; \n• employing full-time salaried lay-workers; \n• socially caring activity in Dickensian London. \nLCM and its staff were innovative, being instrumental in the founding of many other Christian and social organisations and in developing a wide range of ministry methods. \n\nThe LCM exists to share with the people of London, patiently, sensitively and individually the transforming love of God in Jesus Christ, and to enable them to join his Church.\nCore Values:\n1. The Christian faith as defined in the Scriptures of the Old and New Testaments, as held by the historic Christian Church, and as summarised in the Mission's Statement of Faith (see below). \n2. The duty of Christian evangelism, taking the good news of Jesus Christ to all, without regard to any distinctions of social status, gender, ethnicity, attitude or lifestyle.\n3. The embodiment of the Christian message in compassionate and caring activity, as well as in relevant words, reflecting the ministry of Jesus Christ in word and deed, seeking true peace and justice for the city and its people.\n4. The development of individuals and communities in a life of holiness, defined by the teachings of the Bible and reflecting the purity and attractive righteousness of God Himself.\n5. The unique role of the Church in the plan of God, and the duty of the Mission to support and serve the Church in its task of evangelism and in its growth.\n6. The maintenance of the highest standards of Christian integrity and pastoral care in all its activities, including its compliance with all relevant legislation, its treatment of its own staff, its stewardship of all its resources, and its involvement with the community. \n\nThe only serious scholarly work on the London City Mission is Donald M. Lewis' \"Lighten Their Darkness: The Evangelical Mission to Working-Class London, 1828-1860\" (Greenwood Press, 1985; reprinted by Paternoster, 2001). Lewis examines the significant role that the LCM played in broadening interdenominational cooperation among evangelicals in the nineteenth century, correcting the earlier view that this sort of cooperation only emerged much later in the century. \n\n"}
{"id": "2009622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2009622", "title": "Alex Auld", "text": "Alex Auld\n\nAlexander James Auld (born January 7, 1981) is a Canadian former professional ice hockey goaltender. Auld played in the National Hockey League (NHL) with the Vancouver Canucks, Florida Panthers, Phoenix Coyotes, Boston Bruins, Ottawa Senators, Dallas Stars, New York Rangers and the Montreal Canadiens. He has also appeared internationally for Team Canada on three occasions: the 2001 World Junior Championships, the 2004 Spengler Cup, and the 2006 World Championships.\n\nAuld played most of his minor hockey in his hometown of Thunder Bay, Ontario, with the Thunder Bay Kings program. He was a minor hockey teammate of future NHLers Taylor Pyatt, Patrick Sharp, Jason Jaspers and Aaron MacKenzie. Their Kings team won Gold in the All Ontario Bantam AAA championships in 1997 played in North Bay, Ontario.\n\nAuld started junior career with the North Bay Centennials of the Ontario Hockey League (OHL) at the tail end of the 1997–98 season, appearing in six games without registering a win. After appearing in 38 games the following season, Auld was selected in the second round, 40th overall, of the 1999 NHL Entry Draft by the Florida Panthers. He would finish out his junior career with the Centennials, spending two more seasons as their starting goaltender. In his final season, Auld was named to Team Canada for the 2001 World Junior Ice Hockey Championships, where he backed up Maxime Ouellet. Later that same season, Auld was traded to the Vancouver Canucks for a third round pick in the 2002 NHL Entry Draft and a compensatory pick in the 2001 NHL Entry Draft.\n\nAuld turned professional in the 2001–02 season, joining the Canucks' American Hockey League (AHL) affiliate, the Manitoba Moose. An ankle sprain sidelined Auld during training camp, however, and upon his return, he was assigned to the Columbia Inferno of the East Coast Hockey League. Solid play in six games at that level returned Auld to the AHL, where he showed steady improvement, despite competition for playing time from veterans Alfie Michaud and Martin Brochu. Following injuries to Canucks goaltenders Dan Cloutier and Peter Skudra, Auld earned a start at the NHL level, a 4–2 victory over the Dallas Stars on January 23, 2002, after which he returned to the AHL.\n\nThe 2002–03 season afforded Auld more opportunity for growth, although he again split playing time at the AHL level, this time with Tyler Moss. With Cloutier and Skudra entrenched at the NHL level, Auld still managed to appear in seven games as an injury-replacement, and even played one Stanley Cup playoff game in relief. Most importantly, he received extensive playing time, and improved his statistics considerably.\n\nDuring the off-season, backup Peter Skudra signed with a Russian team, raising the possibility that Auld might claim the backup role for the Canucks. As the 2003–04 season approached, however, Canucks General Manager Brian Burke traded a draft pick to the Pittsburgh Penguins for Johan Hedberg, all but ensuring Auld another season in the minors. Again, Auld began the season sharing netminding duties with Tyler Moss. Auld again saw brief NHL action, appearing in six games. However, during the 2004 Stanley Cup playoffs, Dan Cloutier was injured early on in the Canucks' first round series with the Calgary Flames. Hedberg, who had been shaky as a backup, failed to impress Head Coach Marc Crawford in two appearances, and Auld claimed the starting role in Game 5, pushing Calgary the distance in the series, eventually losing in Game 7.\n\nAuld spent the 2004–05 NHL lockout back with the Manitoba Moose in the AHL, this time pairing with veteran netminder Wade Flaherty. Despite holding on to the starting role for much of the season, Auld disappointed in the playoffs, and Flaherty took over as starter, helping the team reach the third round of the Calder Cup playoffs. He also appeared for Canada at the Spengler Cup in December 2004, carrying the team to a third-place finish.\n\nAuld returned to the NHL when play resumed for the 2005–06 season, initially as the backup to Dan Cloutier. However, on November 20, 2005, Cloutier injured an anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) in a collision with Mighty Ducks of Anaheim forward Rob Niedermayer. The hope initially was that the injury would heal during the season, but on December 15, Cloutier opted for surgery, leaving Auld as Vancouver's starting goaltender. He would not play in another game for the Moose, leaving the AHL team as its franchise leader in wins and shutouts.\n\nAs the Canucks' starter, Auld was re-united with former World Junior teammate Maxime Ouellet, who was one of three goaltenders the Canucks used to back him up (Mika Noronen and Rob McVicar were the others). Filling in admirably, Auld went on to capture the Cyclone Taylor trophy as team MVP, although the Canucks would miss the playoffs. Auld then joined Team Canada again, this time at the 2006 World Championships, where Canada finished a disappointing fourth, losing the bronze medal game to Finland.\n\nIn June 2006, Auld was involved in a multi-player trade that sent him, Todd Bertuzzi and Bryan Allen to Florida in exchange for Roberto Luongo, Lukáš Krajíček and a sixth-round draft pick. Initially, Auld was expected to be the undisputed starter in Florida. However, the July 25 signing of Ed Belfour introduced some competition, and Belfour eventually won the job as starting goalie. Controversially, in October, Auld was hospitalized while \"horsing around\" with Belfour, with suspicions that Belfour had assaulted him.\nAfter an unsuccessful season with Florida, Auld signed a one-year contract with the Phoenix Coyotes on August 13, 2007. However, on a team with already with a wealth of goaltenders — Auld would compete for a job with David Aebischer and Mikael Tellqvist at the beginning of the season — Phoenix would pick up Ilya Bryzgalov off waivers from the Anaheim Ducks, leaving Auld as one of the odd goaltenders out. After nine appearances with Phoenix, on December 6, 2007, Auld was traded to the Boston Bruins for right winger Nate DiCasmirro and the Bruins' fifth-round pick in 2009.\n\nPlaying backup to Tim Thomas for the majority of 2007–08, Auld would post the best statistics of his career (excluding his first few seasons with the Canucks, in which he appeared in no more than seven games in a season) with a personal-best two shutouts.\n\nOn July 1, 2008, Auld signed a two-year, $2 million deal with the Ottawa Senators as an unrestricted free agent. He came within one second of recording a shutout in his Senators debut against the Pittsburgh Penguins in Stockholm, Sweden, surrendering a powerplay goal in the final moments of the game. Though Senators' management expected him to serve primarily as a backup to Martin Gerber, Auld's strong play combined with Gerber's struggles resulted in Auld assuming the starting position early in the season. As the season progressed, Gerber was placed on waivers and ultimately was claimed by the Toronto Maple Leafs, while rookie Brian Elliott would split the goaltending duties with Auld in Ottawa. He was expected to challenge for the starting position in 2009–10 with Pascal Leclaire, acquired by Ottawa from the Columbus Blue Jackets late at the 2008–09 trade deadline, but was traded in the off-season on July 8, 2009, to the Dallas Stars in exchange for a sixth-round draft pick in 2010.\n\nOn February 27, 2010 Auld was claimed off of re-entry waivers by the New York Rangers. On July 1, 2010, he signed a one-year, $1 million contract with the Montreal Canadiens.\n\nOn July 1, 2011, Auld re-joined the Ottawa Senators, signing a one-year, $1 million contract.\n\nOn July 23, 2012, Auld left the NHL and signed as a free agent with Austrian club Red Bull Salzburg of the Austrian Hockey League (EBEL). He would retire after playing one season.\n\nAuld first played for Team Canada at the junior level in the 2001 World Junior Championships helping claim the Bronze medal. He made a senior competitive debut with Team Canada at the Swiss-based 2004 Spengler Cup, finishing in 3rd place.\n\nHe made his full IIHF debut for Canada at the 2006 World Championships, losing the Bronze medal game to place fourth.\n\nAuld was born in Cold Lake, Alberta, when his father was stationed out of CFB Cold Lake; however, he spent the majority of his adolescence in Thunder Bay, Ontario.\n\nAuld's wife is celebrity handbag and jewellery designer Melanie Auld. The couple's first child, a son, Sam Alexander Auld, was born on January 5, 2008 in Boston, Massachusetts. Melanie gave birth to the couple's second child, a daughter, Ella Grace Auld was born on July 26, 2011 in Fort Lauderdale, Florida. The couple splits their time between Vancouver and Thunder Bay.\n\n1st NHL Game: January 23, 2002 vs Dallas Stars Canucks 4 Stars 2 \n1st NHL Win: January 23, 2002 vs Dallas Stars Canucks 4 Stars 2 \n1st NHL Shutout: March 23, 2003 vs Washington Capitals Canucks 6 Capitals 0 his 6th career game\n\nOn March 9, 2008, Auld, as a member of the Boston Bruins, allowed no goals in regulation time or overtime to the New York Rangers, but his team lost 1-0 in a shootout. According to NHL rules, the Bruins (as a team) and Auld (individually) received credit for a shutout. Auld thus became the first Boston Bruin goaltender to record a shutout in a game which his team lost.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2009626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2009626", "title": "Topčider", "text": "Topčider\n\nTopčider (; ) is a forest park and an urban neighborhood of Belgrade, the capital of Serbia. It is divided between the municipalities of Čukarica, Rakovica and Savski Venac. Being close to downtown, it is one of the major locations for relaxation, picnics and fresh air for the citizens of Belgrade.\n\nAs a result of the 1923 Belgrade's general plan, where one of the main projects regarding the green areas was forestation of the area between Topčider and the city, a continuous green area Senjak-Topčidersko Brdo-Hajd Park-Topčider-Košutnjak was formed by the 1930s. This continuous forested area makes the largest \"green massif\" in the immediate vicinity of Belgrade's urban tissue.\n\nNobelist author Ivo Andrić wrote: \"You just hang on to Topčider and Košutnjak...Topčider is my favorite place, where I ate bread and drank wine in the sweetest and calmest manner\".\n\nGeographically, Topčider covers a much larger area than what people generally refer to as Topčider today. The eastern slopes of Topčidersko Brdo (\"Topčider Hill\") begin already at the Mostarska Petlja and the highway. The neighborhood of Senjak is located on the western, and Dedinje on the right side. This is where the street of \"Topčiderski Venac\" and the roundabout of \"Topčiderska zvezda\" (\"Topčider star\") are located. The southern slopes of the hill extends into the valley of the Topčiderska reka, a tributary to the Sava river, which has been channeled in this section. This is the area identified with the term Topčider. Topčider Park begins five kilometers south of downtown Belgrade and extends west, east and south into the old Topčider woods which itself extend west into the park-wood of Košutnjak. \n\nIn the upper parts, Košutnjak and Topčider forests grow together, while in the lower parts they are divided by the Topčiderska reka and a railway passing through the river valley (both Košutnjak and Topčider have their own, separate train stations). In the extreme north-west Topčider extends into the neighborhood of Careva Ćuprija and in the south-east into Lisičji Potok. It also borders the neighborhood of Kanarevo Brdo in this section.\n\nTopčider is mentioned for the first time in the 17th century travelogue of the Ottoman explorer and traveler Evliya Çelebi. In Ottoman records, the village of Muminovac was also mentioned in the Topčider valley.\n\nDuring Ottoman times, the valley of Topčiderska reka and the Topčider wood were locations where the Turkish artillery was positioned, intended to defend Belgrade, being distant from the town itself at the time (thus many military barracks to defend the city from later periods, but the town later sprawled tens of kilometers further). This is how the area got its name as in Turkish it means \"artillery men's valley\" (\"top\", cannon; \"topçu\", artillery man; \"dere\", valley), though it is usually erroneously thought to mean simply the \"cannon valley\".\n\nPrince Miloš specifically chose this location. After Serbia gained autonomy, the Ottomans withdrew to the walled cities. As the range of the cannons from the Belgrade Fortress couldn't reach across the Topčiderska reka, the prince selected this area for his future royal compound. The history of the park itself begins in 1830 when the Prince of Serbia Miloš Obrenović started building his personal quarters in the swampy terrain of the Topčider, today one of the major attractions in Belgrade, the famous Milošev konak. A stone Topčider church, dedicated to the apostles Peter and Paul, church inn and military complex were also constructed in the 1832-1834 period, so as the various barracks, magazines, ice rooms, meyhane and a guard tower on top of the Topčidersko Brdo. There was a wooden pavilion, which served as part of the Russian military hospital during the 1876 Serbian-Ottoman War. Hundreds of workers were employed. At one point, 144 \"tajfe\", or bands of construction workers, were employed. Prince Miloš paid them heftily, gave them certain privileges, but they had no working hours, and had to work until the job is done.\n\nPlanting of the surrounding park began at the same time and marked the beginning of the planned green areas in Belgrade as the ensuing park was the first park area in the city. The park was patterned after the English parks. The supervisor of the park's construction was , engineer, urbanist and professor at the Belgrade Lyceum, who also arranged the nursery garden, Košutnjak Park and avenues along city's main streets and squares (Terazije, Kneza Miloša Street, modern Bulevar Kneza Aleksandra Karađorđevića), with the seedlings which originated from the Topčoder nursery.\n\nIn 1839, Belgrade merchant Joca Đ. Jovanović applied for permit to build the first brewery in town. He wanted to build it in Topčider, but the permit was denied. The importance which Topčider gained for the city population can be seen from the fact that in 1884 it got its own railway station even though it was a small settlement at the time and also one of the very first tram lines in Belgrade used to connect Terazije and Topčider, through the Kneza Miloša street. Starting in downtown, at Prince Mihailo Monument, the tram was allocated the number 3, which it still bears today, though its route is today extended to the neighborhood of Kneževac.\n\nThe 1923 Belgrade's general plan envisioned forestation of Topčidersko Brdo and Senjak, formation of the new park and establishment of the continuous green area with the Topčider. Project started in 1926 while the Hyde Park was finished in the 1930s. International tender which was supposed to reconstruct Topčider by the standards of the then modern urbanism was halted by World War II.\n\nWhen Serbia began using paper money, the banknotes were printed in France until 1929, when the Banknotes printing office was built in Topčider, close to the railway station. However, the coins were minted on another location, in the privately owned company \"The brothers Bošković mint\" in the nearby street, today named \"Bulevar vojvode Mišića\". In the mid-1930s a big affair broke out, concerning the counterfeiting of the coins of 50 dinars, so the Banknotes printing office also took over that job. It was always colloquially called the \"Mint\".\n\nAfter the Karađorđević royal family moved in the new Royal Compound in Dedinje in the 1930s, a modern military barracks were built in Topčider, as a headquarters of the royal guard. Additional military objects were also built, including the military farm. Park was partially adapted, with gazebos, bridges, etc. Railway station became the \"royal station\", while after World War II it became the home station of the Josip Broz Tito's famed Blue Train.\n\nAfter 1945 city urbanists considered that the way the Topčider-Košutnjak complex had been handled was wrong, especially the expansion of the railway station into the marshalling yard and the construction of Filmski Grad, so Belgrade's General Urbanistic Plan (GUP) in the 1950s projected the complete removal of the railway objects from the Topčider valley, but this was never implemented. In the summer of 1948 a swimming pool was built in the military complex of the Guard. Though within the army complex, it was a public swimming pool, one of only few such venues in Belgrade at the time.\n\nIn the early 2016, a gradual moving of trains from the Belgrade Main railway station to the new Belgrade Centre railway station, colloquially called Prokop station began. In December 2017, all but two national trains were dislocated to \"Belgrade Center\". However, problems arose immediately. The Prokop is still not finished, has no station building nor proper access roads and public transportation connections with the rest of the city. Additionally, it has no facilities for loading and unloading cars from the auto trains nor was ever planned to have one. Still, in January 2018 it was announced that the station will be completely closed for traffic on 1 July 2018, even though none of the projects needed for a complete removal of the railway traffic are finished. The Prokop is incomplete, a projected main freight station in Zemun is not being adapted at all while there is even no project on a Belgrade railway beltway so a series of temporary solutions will have to be applied. One is a defunct and deteriorated Topčider station, which will be revitalized and adapted for auto trains until the goods station Zemun is finished. Topčider station has one major flaw, a bad public transportation connection (only one tram line, No. 3), so the state railway company asked officially for this problem to be solved. A deadline for the Zemun station is 2 years, but the work is not scheduled to begin until the end of 2018. As of July 2019 no construction began.\n\nBy 1883, Topčider had a population of 767, and though part of Belgrade, it wasn't organized as a quarter of the city, like the central urban area. According to the censuses, the population was 1,675 in 1890, 2,815 in 1895, 2,818 in 1900, 3,534 in 1905 and 3,510 in 1910.\n\nAfter the liberation in World War I in 1918, Topčider came under Belgrade's administrative rule. It was organized as a Topčider-Senjak section of Belgrade, which had a population of 8,476 in 1921.\n\nIn the second half of the 20th century, the part which was within the Savski Venac municipality was organized as a local community (\"mesna zajednica\"), a sub-municipal administrative unit. It was named Topčidersko Brdo and had a population of 5,333 in 1981. It was then merged with Senjak again in the Topčidersko Brdo-Senjak local community which had a population of 7,757 in 1991, 7,249 in 2002 and 6,344 in 2011.\n\nTree planting began immediately after the \"konak\" construction in the 1830s. In the 19th century it was the first nursery garden in Serbia. Most abundant species are platanus, black pine, spruce and field maple. The Topčider London Planes (\"Platanus × acerifolia\") are today among the oldest ones in Europe. The biggest and oldest specimen was high in 2008, with the diameter of the deck being , while the shade of its crown covers an area of . Some sources claim it was planted in 1834 when prince Miloš ordered for a seedling to be planted in the lime kiln in front of the \"konak\". Other, more reliable sources say the tree was planted in 1868, when 250 seedlings of \"Platanus\" were bought in Vienna, Austro-Hungary, for which a receipt still exist today. In 2015 it measured in height and was estimated to be 160 years old, while the crown has grown to and is now supported by the 17 metal piles. The tree is declared a natural monument.\n\nEven older is the almost 180-year-old pear tree, nicknamed \"Kruška topčiderka\" (\"Pear of Topčider\") According to popular legend, it was planted by prince Miloš a few years after the \"konak\" was finished. He wanted to redeem himself to his wife princess Ljubica because of his frequent infidelities and in front of the pear seedling swore his loyalty to her. It still bears fruits, so attempts are being made to produce its seedling in the greenhouse. The pear is surrounded by five pedunculate oaks, all of which are over 100 years old.\n\nSpecial feature in the park is the group of 8 swamp cypresses.\n\nIn 2015, most of the trees in Topčider were 20 to 70 years old, but a significant number of trees was over 100 years old or from the 19th century.\n\nTopčider is home to 26 species of dragonflies, 48 species of orthoptera and 153 species of beetles. Birds include collared dove, white wagtail, common blackbird, typical warbler, grey heron and great spotted woodpecker. Mammals present in the park, among others, are squirrels, moles, hedgehogs, voles and bats.\n\nTopčider was the first public park outside the central city area. Today, the total area of Topčider is , out of which is covered by the park. The entire Košutnjak-Topčider forest complex covers an area of . Many other monuments are centered on the konak: the \"binjektaš\" stone (\"hopping stone\") which prince Miloš used to jump on a horse, the Museum of the First Serbian Uprising (in the konak itself), three public drinking fountains with an additional fourth one with lion's heads which was temporarily moved to Topčider in 1911, but restored in 1976 and returned to its original location in Terazije, and the stone obelisk erected in 1859, one of the first public monuments in Belgrade. A bronze monument to the Swiss doctor and philanthropist Archibald Reiss (by Marko Brežanin) was erected in 1931.\n\nThe northern section of Topčider is the location of the Topčider cemetery (with the Orthodox church of Saint Trifun) and the Banknotes printing office (\"Zavod za izradu novčanica\"), that is, the mint of the National Bank of Serbia. In the western section, bordering with Dedinje is Beli Dvor, a court of the Serbian former royal dynasty Karađorđević and the present residence of the pretender Aleksandar Karađorđević and his family.\n\nNorthwest section of the Topčider is declared a geological natural monument of \"Senonian ridge of Mašin Majdan\". The location is an archaeological excavation site as the fossils of the Mesozoic fish have been found in the sediment layers from the Late Cretaceous. It was named \"Mašin majdan\" (\"Maša's quarry\"), after a quarry owned by Mrs. Maša Dimić who lived in the house above the quarry. It was operational until the 1920s and the stone from the quarry was used for the villas on Topčider and Dedinje, but also for the construction of the nearby railroad. On the location of the former quarry, the Topčider summer stage was built in 1947. It had 1,800 seats and an excellent acoustics, being embedded into the limestone rocks. A project of Rajko Tatić, despite occasional public actions for its restoration (1999, 2009), by the 2010s the facility was abandoned and deteriorated.\n\nThe Great Platanus, in front of the \"konak\", was protected as the natural monument in 2001. As the city government declared the entire Topčider Park a natural monument on 23 June 2015, specific protection for the Platanus ceased. In the area of the residential Obrenović dynasty complex, there are six objects which are protected as the cultural monuments: Residence of Prince Miloš, Topčider Church, Church Inn, Obelisk, monument to Archibald Reiss and the .\n\nThere are threats of destroying certain parts of the park because the government is planning to build a tunnel in this area which will connect Autokomanda with this part of the city and hopefully solve many car traffic problems in Belgrade. Some environmental groups protested against this project, but the constructing of this tunnel still hasn't progressed further than the idea stage. During the summer of 2007, a general planning idea will be chosen by a tender held by the city government, and it remains to be seen if this plan will contain a solution for park preservation. Ada Bridge, which is part of the same project (Inner ring road) was built and opened on 1 January 2012, but the construction of the tunnel under Senjak, which should free Topčider from heavy traffic, was postponed due to the heavy costs.\n\nIn the early 2018, city administration announced that the detailed regulatory plan and the conceptual design are finished, while the invitation to tender for the project was set for later in 2018.\n\nThe tunnel would start at the large Radnička interchange, at the beginning of the bridge. That way, it would practically make an extension of the Požeška Street, the main street and commercial area of the neighborhoods of Čukarica and Banovo Brdo. The tunnel would then exit at Partizan Stadium, on the other side of Topčidersko Brdo, above the Autokomanda. The tunnel will allow for the drivers to circumvent the downtown and to allow faster transit. It is planned as part of Belgrade's .\n\nThe easternmost section of Topčider is a heavily wooded area, so the expansion of the neighborhood of Lisičji Potok was limited. In the early 2000s, due to the political changes which caused a vacuum in all levels of government, private entrepreneurs without gaining regular permits cut down over 1,000 trees in the Topčider woods for the purpose of constructing vast apartment complexes.\n\nThe vast secret military complex of \"Karaš\" (in \"Teodora Drajzera\" street) was built and dug into the hill from 1965 to 1980, with numerous barracks and kilometers of underground passages.\n\nIn October 2004, two young guards, Dragan Jakovljević and Dražen Milovanović, were found shot dead under highly mysterious circumstances. The first official army report stated that the two guards got into a fight; one got shot, and the other one committed suicide. The investigation was so obviously sloppy (videos were made public of investigators walking all over the non-secured crime scene, not using any precaution measures or security protocols, etc.) to the point of absurdity, including the notorious statement of then military prosecutor Vuk Tufegdžić who stated that no DNA tests were done because DNA is an \"overrated thing\" and that \"people watch TV too much\". Because of the serious rumours and intense public pressure, a more thorough investigation was initiated, this time headed by Božo Prelević, former interior minister of Serbia. His commission concluded that the two soldiers were shot by a third party but the exact situation has never been clarified, except that the commission reject almost all findings of the first, internal military investigation. Not having any solid evidence or conclusions, it is widely suggested by the press that the two guards were the witnesses of either a high-profile indictee (as it was suggested at the time, Ratko Mladić) of the International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia, who was supposedly hiding in the undergrounds of the Topčider complex, or some criminal activities, like smuggling.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2009636", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2009636", "title": "Comparison of open-source and closed-source software", "text": "Comparison of open-source and closed-source software\n\nFree/open-source software – the source availability model used by free and open-source software (FOSS) – and closed source are two approaches to the distribution of software.\n\nUnder the \"closed-source\" model source code is not released to the public. Closed-source software is maintained by a team who produces their product in a compiled-executable state, which is what the market is allowed access to. Microsoft, the owner and developer of Windows and Microsoft Office, along with other major software companies, have long been proponents of this business model, although in August 2010, Microsoft interoperability general manager Jean Paoli said Microsoft \"loves open source\" and its anti-open-source position was a mistake.\n\nThe FOSS model allows for able users to view and modify a product's source code, but most of such code is not in the public domain. Common advantages cited by proponents for having such a structure are expressed in terms of trust, acceptance, teamwork and quality.\n\nA non-free license is used to limit what free software movement advocates consider to be the essential freedoms. A license, whether providing open-source code or not, that does not stipulate the \"four software freedoms\", are not considered \"free\" by the free software movement. A closed source license is one that limits only the availability of the source code. By contrast a copyleft license claims to protect the \"four software freedoms\" by explicitly granting them and then explicitly prohibiting anyone to redistribute the package or reuse the code in it to make derivative works without including the same licensing clauses. Some licenses grant the four software freedoms but allow redistributors to remove them if they wish. Such licenses are sometimes called \"permissive software licenses\". An example of such a license is the FreeBSD License which allows derivative software to be distributed as non-free or closed source, as long as they give credit to the original designers.\n\nA misconception that is often made by both proponents and detractors of FOSS is that it cannot be capitalized. FOSS can and has been commercialized by companies such as Red Hat, Canonical, Mozilla, Google, IBM, Novell, Sun/Oracle, VMware and others.\n\nThe primary business model for closed-source software involves the use of constraints on what can be done with the software and the restriction of access to the original source code. This can result in a form of imposed artificial scarcity on a product that is otherwise very easy to copy and redistribute. The end result is that an end-user is not actually purchasing software, but purchasing the right to use the software. To this end, the source code to closed-source software is considered a trade secret by its manufacturers.\n\nFOSS methods, on the other hand, typically do not limit the use of software in this fashion. Instead, the revenue model is based mainly on support services. Red Hat Inc. and Canonical Ltd. are such companies that give its software away freely, but charge for support services. The source code of the software is usually given away, and pre-compiled binary software frequently accompanies it for convenience. As a result, the source code can be freely modified. However, there can be some license-based restrictions on re-distributing the software. Generally, software can be modified and re-distributed for free, as long as credit is given to the original manufacturer of the software. In addition, FOSS can generally be sold commercially, as long as the source-code is provided. There are a wide variety of free software licenses that define how a program can be used, modified, and sold commercially (see GPL, LGPL, and BSD-type licenses). FOSS may also be funded through donations.\n\nA software philosophy that combines aspects of FOSS and proprietary software is open core software, or commercial open source software. Despite having received criticism from some proponents of FOSS, it has exhibited marginal success. Examples of open core software include MySQL and VirtualBox. The MINIX operating system used to follow this business model, but came under the full terms of the BSD license after the year 2000.\n\nThis model has proved somewhat successful, as witnessed in the Linux community. There are numerous GNU/Linux distributions available, but a great many of them are simply modified versions of some previous version. For example, Fedora Linux, Mandriva Linux, and PCLinuxOS are all derivatives of an earlier product, Red Hat Linux. In fact, Red Hat Enterprise Linux is itself a derivative of Fedora Linux. This is an example of one vendor creating a product, allowing a third-party to modify the software, and then creating a tertiary product based on the modified version. All of the products listed above are currently produced by software service companies.\n\nOperating systems built on the Linux kernel are available for a wider range of processor architectures than Microsoft Windows, including PowerPC and SPARC. None of these can match the sheer popularity of the x86 architecture, nevertheless they do have significant numbers of users; Windows remains unavailable for these alternative architectures, although there have been such ports of it in the past.\n\nThe most obvious complaint against FOSS revolves around the fact that making money through some traditional methods, such as the sale of the use of individual copies and patent royalty payments, is much more difficult and sometimes impractical with FOSS. Moreover, FOSS has been considered damaging to the commercial software market, evidenced in documents released as part of the Microsoft Halloween documents leak.\n\nThe cost of making a copy of a software program is essentially zero, so per-use fees are perhaps unreasonable for open-source software. At one time, open-source software development was almost entirely volunteer-driven, and although this is true for many small projects, many alternative funding streams have been identified and employed for FOSS:\n\n\nIncreasingly, FOSS is developed by commercial organizations. In 2004, Andrew Morton noted that 37,000 of the 38,000 recent patches in the Linux kernel were created by developers directly paid to develop the Linux kernel. Many projects, such as the X Window System and Apache, have had commercial development as a primary source of improvements since their inception. This trend has accelerated over time.\n\nThere are some who counter that the commercialization of FOSS is a poorly devised business model because commercial FOSS companies answer to parties with opposite agendas. On one hand commercial FOSS companies answer to volunteers developers, who are difficult to keep on a schedule, and on the other hand they answer to shareholders, who are expecting a return on their investment. Often FOSS development is not on a schedule and therefore it may have an adverse effect on a commercial FOSS company releasing software on time.\n\nGary Hamel counters this claim by saying that quantifying who or what is innovative is impossible.\n\nThe implementation of compatible FOSS replacements for proprietary software is encouraged by the Free Software Foundation to make it possible for their users to use FOSS instead of proprietary software, for example they have listed GNU Octave, an API-compatible replacement for MATLAB, as one of their high priority projects. In the past this list contained free binary compatible Java and CLI implementations, like GNU Classpath and DotGNU. Thus even \"derivative\" developments are important in the opinion of many people from FOSS. However, there is no quantitative analysis, if FOSS is less innovative than proprietary software, since there are derivative/re-implementing proprietary developments, too.\n\nSome of the largest well-known FOSS projects are either legacy code (e.g., FreeBSD or Apache) developed a long time ago independently of the free software movement, or by companies like Netscape (which open-sourced its code with the hope that they could compete better), or by companies like MySQL which use FOSS to lure customers for its more expensive licensed product. However, it is notable that most of these projects have seen major or even complete rewrites (in the case of the Mozilla and Apache 2 code, for example) and do not contain much of the original code.\n\nInnovations have come, and continue to come, from the open-source world:\n\nAn analysis of the code of the FreeBSD, Linux, Solaris, and Windows operating system kernels looked for differences between code developed using open-source properties (the first two kernels) and proprietary code (the other two kernels). The study collected metrics in the areas of file organization, code structure, code style, the use of the C preprocessor, and data organization. The aggregate results indicate that across various areas and many different metrics, four systems developed using open- and closed-source development processes score comparably.\nThe study mentioned above is refuted by a study conducted by Coverity, Inc finding open source code to be of better quality.\n\nA study was done on seventeen open-source and closed-source software showed that the number of vulnerabilities existing in a piece of software is not affected by the source availability model that it uses. The study used a very simple metrics of comparing the number of vulnerabilities between the open-source and closed-source software. Another study was also done by a group of professors in Northern Kentucky University on fourteen open-source web applications written in PHP. The study measured the vulnerability density in the web applications and shown that some of them had increased vulnerability density, but some of them also had decreased vulnerability density.\n\nIn its 2008 Annual Report, Microsoft stated that FOSS business models challenge its license-based software model and that the firms who use these business models do not bear the cost for their software development. The company also stated in the report:\nThere are numerous business models for open source companies which can be found in the literature.\n\n"}
{"id": "2009640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2009640", "title": "Kijevo, Belgrade", "text": "Kijevo, Belgrade\n\nKijevo () is an urban neighborhood of Belgrade, the capital of Serbia. It is located in Belgrade's municipality of Rakovica.\n\nKijevo is located between the southwestern slopes of the Straževica hill on the east, and the southeastern slopes of the Petlovo Brdo on the west. The neighborhood is situated in the central part of the municipality, on the mouth of the stream of Kijevski Potok into the Topčiderka river. It is bordered by the neighborhoods of Petlovo Brdo on the west, Labudovo Brdo and Kneževac on the north and Resnik on the southeast. The neighborhood Sunčani Breg is located east of the Straževica hill and the quarry. Area south of Kijevo, the \"Klik\"' and \"Šabinac\" meadows, is still not urbanized.\n\nThe neighborhood is situated in the valley of the Topčiderka, south of downtown Belgrade, near the crossroad of the Ibar highway and the \"Kružni put\", and the future, parallel, Belgrade beltway.\n\nOriginally, the area was suitable for tourism and was well known as an excursion location. The flowery meadows surrounded both the Kijevski Potok and Topčiderka, which in turn were bordered by the oak forests and agricultural fields. Later, the artificial Lake Kijevo was formed in the valley. However, by the 1960s all that disappeared. The settlement became more populous, the highway and the tunnel were built and the area was fully urbanized. The lake was drained, the forests were cut and the meadows and fields transformed in time into the marshland.\n\nThe Straževica slopes are made of rich deposits of sandy-detrital silicified limestone, which are even today exploited in the Kijevo Quarry, which was originally open to supply the railroad company, but also became the main stone source for Belgrade.\n\nLake Kijevo is a former artificial lake which existed for 46 years. Kijevski Potok, which originates under the hillock of Mačkov kamen, between Kneževac and Rušanj, cut through the Kijevo valley and often flooded it. In order to prevent damage by floodings to his factory, Stefanović built a sluice in 1901, forming the Lake Kijevo. Soon, the lake, surrounded by the thick forest, became an excursion site for the wealthier Belgraders. As Kijevo has its own railway station, a special excursion trains connected it to downtown Belgrade. There was an \"ada\", small island in the lake which visitors could reached only by boats. Custom of the day was for the ladies to be brought to the island by boat and then to have a Turkish coffee served there. As the lake became more and more popular, Stefanović built a hotel with the ballroom. Visitors included Serbian king Peter I, writer Branislav Nušić and painter Nadežda Petrović. It has been recorded that the lake was visited by Albert Einstein, his wife Mileva and their son Hans. During his 1905 visit to the botanist Nedeljko Košanin, chief of the Belgrade's botanical garden Jevremovac, the Einsteins were driving the boat and swam in the lake.\n\nIn 1937-38 Stefanović's nephew, who inherited the business, parceled the remaining land into lots with the view on \"ada\" and sold them for the construction of the family houses. After the unusually rainy spring in 1941, the sluice gate was lifted for the sludge to be washed away. The gates were later stolen and the lake began to recede. New authorities tried to clean an dredge the bottom of the valley, but ultimately gave up and the lake completely drained through the Kijevski Potok into the Topčiderka by 1947. New government, aside from confiscating all their assets, declared the Stefanović's nephew and his brother public enemies. Immediately after the war, one of the brothers fell under the train in dubious circumstances (he was in the company of the representatives of the new government) and the other emigrated to the United States.\n\nWhen the construction of the neighborhood of Kanarevo Brdo began in the 1960s, the earth which was dug was used to fill the former lake. The area was then flattened and turned into the football court for the local club \"FK Kijevo\". The club was disbanded in 2000, and the court was left unattended. By 2015 it was completely overgrown by the vegetation and the football facilities deteriorated, while the stream became an open sewage canal. The only remaining property of the Stefanović family economic complex is one low, abandoned building full of rubbish, at the edge of the former court.\n\nUntil the early 20th century, Kijevo was an uninhabited section of the Rakovica's rural area. Svetozar Stefanović, industrialist who founded the first canning factory in Serbia, in Kragujevac, moved to Belgrade and bought the land at the mouth of the Kijevski Potok into the Topčiderka and planted fruits and vegetables, including the large fruit plantation on the slopes of the west bank of Kijevski Potok. Later, in 1901 he also transferred his factory from Kragujevac to Kijevo. The factory was nationalized after the World War II by the new Communist authorities, renamed to \"Prvi Maj\" and moved to Čukarica in the late 1950s. The factory was predecessor of the modern canning factory FMP.\n\nAfter the Lake Kijevo was created in 1901, lots around the lake were settled by the wealthy Belgrade citizens who build villas around the lake. Among the first was Moša Avram \"Maca\", proprietor of the first umbrella factory in Belgrade. His villa was later adapted into the first Kijevo elementary school and after the World War II became the seat of local branch of OZNA (Yugoslav security agency) for a while. The building was demolished in the 1960s.\n\nApart from Stefanović, fast industrial development of Kijevo included the entrepreneurs Parapid, Tomić and Marković who founded the quarry, while a major landowner of the time, Fotelić, owned a large land complex on the southern and southeastern slopes of Petlovo Brdo. There were numerous smaller landowners, mostly peasant families from Kneževac, but also from Resnik and nearby Rušanj. As the peasants in time became highly in debt, especially during the Great Depression, the land in Kijevo was acquired by the Mortgage bank in 1931-1932. The confiscated land on the eastern and southern slopes of Petlovo Brdo, in the alluvial valleys of both rivers, was parceled and sold to the employees of the railroad company. This is when Kijevo began to fully develop as a settlement.\n\nUntil 1941, some 200 people settled in Kijevo, with additional 80 who refuged during the World War II. After the war, a huge number of rural population moved to Belgrade, especially from the war thorn and poor regions, but also because of the deficit of the workforce in the city. Many worked in Kijevo because of the railroad and tunnel construction, so the temporary barracks for the workers and their families were placed all over the Belgrade suburbia, including Kijevo. Some of them still stand. The 1950 Belgrade general plan (GUP) envisioned the entire area stretching from the Zmajevac Hill, below Miljakovac, over Kneževac, to Kijevo, as the green, un-urbanized, excursion area.\n\nNext wave of settlement in Kijevo began in 1953, coinciding with the massive shift of the local agricultural population which was settling in Belgrade. As Kijevo was at the time designated as the green area, and the building was restricted, the unplanned construction flourished. As there was a major shortage of apartments in the city, the settlers were buying the lots in Kijevo and built their own houses. In 1953-1960 period, 800 people moved into the settlement.\n\nNext phase of the development started in 1962, this time under the administration of the Čukarica municipality to which Kijevo belonged at the time after being abolished as a separate settlement in 1959 and annexed to the village of Kneževac, which in turn lost its municipality and became part of Čukarica. As the municipality issued the building permits, the settlement spread from the originally drier sections of the lower and eastern slopes. The individual houses were now built, almost on top of Petlovo Brdo and on the left slopes of the Duboki Potok. In 1961-1965 period, 700 new inhabitants settled in Kijevo.\n\nIn 1965 the municipality handed over the area to the development agency, and the planned growths began. This marked the end of the individual construction and the building of the high rise began. In the 1966-1969 period, 2,500 people settled in Kijevo. Such a strong and fast development, despite being planned, had its setbacks, especially concerning the lack of compatibility with the rational building of the settlement which raised the price of both the construction and the communal grid. The construction continued without fixing the problems but the new settlement was partially harmonized with the 1972 GUP of Belgrade. This new GUP abandoned the 1950 GUP project of green areas on this location, switching to urban construction instead.\n\nThe GUP envisioned the urban joining of Kneževac-Kijevo and Železnik, along the \"Kružni put\" road, creating a secondary center of Belgrade. The planned suburban city was to have 35,000 workers and 100,000 inhabitants, on an area of . The city was to have numerous business buildings, department stores, hotels, educational facilities, scientific venues and medical institutes. The project wasn't carried through and the two neighborhoods remained disconnected, though they both independently formed one urban unit with Belgrade in time and in 1972 were abolished as separate settlements and annexed to Belgrade as its neighborhoods.\n\nIn 1970-1971, 4,500 people moved into the Kneževac-Kijevo neighborhood. According to the 1971 census, Kneževac, still a separate settlement, had a population of 13,022, but 8,823 belonged to the Kijevo-Petlovo Brdo section, making Kijevo twice larger than Kneževac itself. Only 19% of the population was autochthonous. The migrations were almost stopped after that and the informal settlements were resettled, so already in 1972 a population began to decline. The population was resettled into the neighboring settlements and villages of Miljakovac, Resnik, Rušanj, Pelovo Brdo and Sremčica. By this time, the settlement was fully urbanized and not a single family was solely agricultural, though some small fields were still cultivated.\n\nIn time, the new section with high rise buildings differentiated itself as a separate neighborhood of Petlovo Brdo so today the name Kijevo applies only to the old part of the neighborhood.\n\nKijevo was a separate village until 1959 when it was incorporated into Kneževac, which in turn was incorporated into Belgrade in 1972.\n\nKijevo is today organized as \"local community\", a sub-municipal administrative unit. In 2010 the western section of the local community was detached and became part of the newly formed local community Petlovo Brdo.\n\nIn the urban and cadastral sense, Kijevo forms one unit with the neighboring Kneževac. Majority of the area of the former Kijevo settlement is today part of the Kneževac cadaster municipality, with a small part being added to the Resnik cadaster municipality.\n\nA former village, through urbanization Kijevo became the southern extension of Rakovica and a mostly industrialized area. The most important feature in the neighborhood is the quarry which supplies the entire Belgrade's building industry with stone and slates. The remaining industry is also mostly into construction and building (building companies and cement plants \"Komgrap\", \"Graditelj\", etc.).\n\nKijevo is important traffic crossroad. Crossing of the Belgrade-Niš and suburban Belgrade's railway is located here, with several tunnels and \"Kijevo\" railway station. \"Kružni put\" or \"circular road\" which rounds through the entire southern outskirts of Belgrade passes here, also with a tunnel in Kijevo.\n"}
{"id": "2009654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2009654", "title": "Ross-shire (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Ross-shire (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nRoss-shire was a Scottish county constituency of the House of Commons of the Parliament of Great Britain from 1708 to 1801 and of the Parliament of the United Kingdom from 1801 to 1832. \n\nThe British parliamentary constituency was created in 1708 following the Acts of Union, 1707 and replaced the former Parliament of Scotland shire constituency of Ross-shire\n\nThe constituency elected one Member of Parliament (MP) by the first past the post system until the seat was abolished for the 1832 general election.\n"}
{"id": "2009655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2009655", "title": "Dindigul", "text": "Dindigul\n\nDindigul () is a city in the Indian state of Tamil Nadu. It is the administrative headquarters of the Dindigul district. Dindigul is located southwest from the state capital, Chennai, away from Tiruchirappalli, away from Madurai and 72 km away from the Tex City of Karur. The city is known for its locks and biriyani. Parts of Dindigul Districts like Palani, Oddanchatram, Vedasandur, Nilakottai, \nKodaikanal, Natham, \nAthoor.\n\nDindigul is believed to be an ancient settlement region and has been ruled at different times by the Cheras, Early Pandyas, Cholas, Pallava dynasty, the later Pandyas, the Madurai Sultanate, the Dindigul Sultanates, the Vijayanagara Empire, the Madurai Nayakar Dynasty, Chanda Sahib, the Carnatic kingdom and the British. Dindigul has a number of historical monuments, the Dindigul Fort being the most prominent.\n\nIndustries in Dindigul include safety lock makers, leather tanneries, textile spinning, administrative services, agricultural trading, banking, agricultural machinery and educational services. Dindigul is upgraded to a municipal corporation. The city covers an area of and had a population of 207,327 in 2011. Dindigul is well-connected by road and rail with the rest of Tamil Nadu. It is the 12th-largest urban agglomeration in the state and has a population of 292,512 according to Tamil Nadu's 2011 census. Dindigul has 200,000 hectares of cultivation land, and agriculture continues to be the main occupation of its inhabitants. Located between the Palani and Sirumalai Hills, Dindigul has a reserved forest area of 85 hectares. Vadamadurai is one of the main towns in Dindigul district where Alagar temple (Sri Ranganadha swamy) is located and which is surrounded with hills and greens. Villages located nearby include Seethapati and Thennampati.\n\nThe city's name comes from a portmanteau of the Tamil words \"dind\" \"pillow\" and \"kal\" rock and refers to the bare hill located in the city. The Śaiva poet visited the city and noted it in his \"Tevaram\". Dindigul was mentioned in poet Palupatai sokkanathar's book \"Padmagiri Nadhar Thenral Vidu thudhu\". This was later stated by U. V. Swaminatha Iyer (1855-1942) in his foreword to the above book. He also mentions that Dindigul was originally called Dindicharam.\n\nThe history of Dindigul is centered around the Dindigul Fort, located on a small rock hill near the city. Dindigul was on the border of the \"moovendars\" of ancient Tamilakam, the Pandyas, Cheras and Cholas. The Chera king Dharmabalan is believed to have built the temples of Abirami and Padmagirinathar. The ancient Tamil book, \"Silappathikaram\" records the city as the northern border of the Pandya kingdom whose capital was Madurai. Historian Strabo mentions about the city in his 20 A.D. work and Pillni, the great historian of the time described the Pandya king in his works.\n\nDuring the 1st century CE, the Chola king Karikal Cholan captured the Pandya kingdom and Dindigul came under Chola rule. During the sixth century, the Pallavas took over Dindigul along with most of southern India, and was ruled by them until 8th century CE when the Cholas retook it. During the Delhi Sultanate's raids into southern India, Dindigul was not attacked, and later that century the city became part of the Vijayanagara Empire. The commander of the Vijayanagara army Kampanna Udayar played an important role in the war in capturing Madurai which was under the Madurai Sultanate. In 1559 Nayaks became powerful and their territory bordered with Dindigul in the north. After the death of king Viswanatha Nayak in 1563, Muthukrisna Nayakka became the king of a kingdom in 1602 A.D who built the strong hill fort in 1605 A.D. He also built a fort at the bottom of the hill. Muthuveerappa Nayak and Thirumalai Nayak followed Muthukrishna Nayak. Dindigul came to prominence once again during Nayaks rule of Madurai under Thirumalai Nayak. After his immediate unsuccessful successors, Rani Mangammal became the ruler of the region who ruled efficiently.\nIn 1736 Chanda Sahib, the lieutenant of Mughal Empire seized power from Vangaru Nayak. In 1742, the Mysore army under the leadership of Venkatarayar conquered Dindigul. He governed Dindigul as a representative of Maharaja of Mysore. There were 18 palyams (a small region consists of few villages) during his reign and all these palayams were under Dindigul Semai with Dindigul as capital. These palayams wanted to be independent and refused to pay taxes to Venkatarayar. In 1748, Venkatappa was made governor of the region in place of Venkatarayar, who also failed. In 1755, the Maharaja sent Haider Ali to Dindigul to handle the situation. Later Haider Ali became the Maharaja of Mysore and in 1777, he appointed Purshana Mirsaheb as governor of Dindigul. Mirsaheb strengthened the fort and the garrison aroud it. His wife Ameer-um-Nisha-Begam died during her delivery and her tomb is now called Begambur. In 1783 the British Army, led by Captain Long occupied Dindigul. In 1784, after an agreement between Mysore and British army, Dindigul was restored by Mysore province. In 1788, Tipu Sultan, the Son of Haider Ali, was crowned as King of Dindigul. In 1790, James Stewart of the British army conquered Dindigul again during second war of Mysore. In a pact made on 1792, Tipu ceded Dindigul to the British. Dindigul was the first region to come under British rule in Madurai District. In 1798, the British army strengthened the hill fort with cannons and built sentinel rooms in every corner.The British army, under Statten stayed at Dindigul fort from 1798 to 1859. After that Madurai was made headquarters of the British army and Dindigul was attached to it as a taluk. Dindigul was under the rule of the British until India gained Independence on 15 August 1947. Recently the city has been experiencing new growth and new companies are opening branches here like Chennai Silks, UnlimitED, Jos Allukas and Tanishq.\n\nDindigul is located at and has an average elevation of . The town is in Dindigul district, from Chennai and south-west of Tiruchirappalli. Dindigul is located in the foothills of Sirumalai hills. The topography is plain and hilly, with the variation resulting in climatic changes. There are no notable mineral resources available in and around the town. The soil type is thin veeneer soil, which is mostly black clayey soil with red soil. Summer season is from March to July, while December to January marks the winter season. The temperature ranges from a maximum of to a minimum of during summer and a maximum of to a minimum of during winter. Dindigul receives rainfall with an average of annually. The Southwest monsoon, with an onset in June and lasting up to August, brings scanty rainfall. Bulk of the rainfall is received during the North East monsoon in the months of October, November and December.\n\nAccording to 2011 census, Dindigul had a population of 207,327 with a sex-ratio of 1,012 females for every 1,000 males, much above the national average of 929. A total of 19,603 were under the age of six, constituting 10,126 males and 9,477 females. Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes accounted for 7.58% and .07% of the population respectively. The average literacy of the city was 81.69%, compared to the national average of 72.99%. The city had a total of 53573 households. There were a total of 77,813 workers, comprising 387 cultivators, 366 main agricultural labourers, 5,328 in house hold industries, 68,163 other workers, 3,569 marginal workers, 46 marginal cultivators, 176 marginal agricultural labourers, 187 marginal workers in household industries and 3,160 other marginal workers. As per the religious census of 2011, Dindigul had 69.11% Hindus, 14.17% Muslims, 16.59% Christians, 0.02% Sikhs, 0.02% Buddhists, 0.01% Jains and 0.1% following other religions.\n\nAs of the provisional population totals of 2011 census, Dindigul urban agglomeration had a population of 292,132, with 145,438 males and 146,694 females. The sex ratio of the town was 1,009 females per 1,000 males; the child sex ratio stood at 964. Dindigul had an average literacy rate of 89.1% with a male literacy of 93.41% and a female literacy of 84.83%. A total of 26,169 of the population of the town was under 6 years of age.\n\nAs of 2001, 15 slums were identified in the town and a total of 85,235 people resided in the slums in 16,841 households. The slum population increased from 16 per cent to 43 per cent during the period of 1991–2001. The town experienced a growth rate of 28 per cent to 40 per cent during the 70s, but declined to 11 percent in 80s and 8 percent.\n\nThe city covers an area of . The population density of the city in the 2001 census was 153 persons per hectare, compared with 2,218 persons per square kilometer in 1971. The density of population is higher in the central areas and along major roads. Hindus form the majority of the urban population, followed by Muslims and Christians. Tamil is the main language spoken in the city, but the use of English is relatively common; English is the medium of instruction in most educational institutions and offices in the service sector.\n\nAccording to Indian Census of 2001, Dindigul town's urban workforce participation rate is 35.24 percent. Dindigul, being the headquarters of the district, has registered growth in the secondary and tertiary sectors, with a corresponding decrease in the primary Sector. Major employment in the city is provided by industrial estates, hand loom, trading and commerce activities. Approximately 90 percent of the workforce is employed in the tertiary sector. The district at large has only two industrial estates, with one of them located in the city.\nOddanchatram is one of the important town in Dindigul district. Oddanchatram Vegetable market (also known as Gandhi market) is the largest vegetable market in Tamil Nadu. As of 2001, there were approximately 60 tanneries, 165 lock manufacturing units and large number of cotton spinning mills.\n\nLocks and steel safes are manufactured in Dindigul and operated as a co-operative sector. Locks manufactured in Dindigul are sold in national and international markets and is well known all over India for its quality. Dindigul locks received geographical indication on 30 August 2019. A decline in lock industry is observed in modern times and other industries like leather, handloom, and aggro opportunities have gained significance. Silk, muslin and blanket manufacturing is common in Dindigul and after Coimbatore, the city has the second largest textile spindling capacity in the State. Chinnalapatti silk, a brand of silk saree is produced out of Chinnalapatti located from the city. The climate condition of the region is conducive for horticulture and agriculture. The district at large produce non-food crops like coffee, flowers, tobacco, and eucalyptus. Dindigul is the center for wholesale trading of fruits like orange, pineapple, sapota and guava, and vegetables like onion.\n\nDindigul was an important center of trade in tobacco and manufacture of cigars during the British times. A favorite cigar of Winston Churchill called Churut, the 'Light of Asia', was produced in Dindigul. The tobacco industry is one of the main sources of employment for the inhabitants of Dindigul.The central government has a research center for tobacco in Vedasandur. This is one of the two centers in India, the other one is Rajamundri. In modern times, it has the largest trading center in the state for chewing tobacco and scented betel nuts. Well-known brands of scented chewing tobacco like Angu Vilas, Roja Supari etc. operate out of the city and sent to various places in the state and outside. Dindigul is also one of the leading leather producers and suppliers in the state.\n\nOn 1 November 1866, Dindigul became a municipality. It was promoted to a special-grade municipality as of 1988 and the entire municipal area was included in the jurisdiction of the municipality. On 10 April 2013, it was announced that the municipality would be upgraded to a municipal corporation. On 19 February 2014, Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu, J. Jayalalithaa declared that Dindigul Municipality has been upgraded to Corporation status with immediate effect. The said government order was handed over to the Municipal Chairman, G. Marudharaj The Dindigul municipality has 48 wards and there is an elected councillor for each of those wards. The functions of the municipality are devolved into six departments: general administration/personnel, Engineering, Revenue, Public Health, city planning and Information Technology (IT). All these departments are under the control of a Municipal Commissioner who is the executive head. The legislative powers are vested in a body of 48 members, one each from the 48 wards. The legislative body is headed by an elected Chairperson assisted by a Deputy Chairperson.\n\nDindigul comes under the Dindigul assembly constituency and it elects a member to the Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly once every five years. From the 1977 elections, All India Anna Dravid Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) won the assembly seat two times (in 1984 and 1991 elections); Communist Party of India (Marxist) (CPI(M)) six times (1977, 1989, 1996, 2001, 2006 and 2011) and once by Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK, 1996). The current MLA of the constituency is C.Sreenivasan from AIADMK party.\n\nDindigul is a part of the Dindigul Lok Sabha constituency and elects its member to Parliament once in five years. The constituency was held by the Indian National Congress four times (1957, 1962, 2004 and 2009 elections), Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) three times (1967, 1971 and 1980 elections), Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (ADMK) for seven times (1977, 1984, 1989, 1991, 1998, 1999 and 2014 elections) and by Tamil Maanila Congress (TMC) once (1996 elections). .\n\nLaw and order in the town in maintained by the Dindigul sub division of the Tamil Nadu Police headed by a Deputy Superintendent. There are three police stations in the town, one of them being an all-women police station. There are special units like prohibition enforcement, district crime, social justice and human rights, district crime records and special branch that operate at the district level police division headed by a Superintendent of Police.\n\nAs of 2011, there are 19 municipal primary schools, 23 other primary schools, eight middle schools and 13 higher secondary schools in the city. There were ten other private schools within the town. There were three engineering colleges and three arts and science colleges. Gandhigram Rural university and Mother Teresa Women's University are the two universities present in Dindigul.\n\nElectricity supply to Dindigul is regulated and distributed by the Tamil Nadu Electricity Board (TNEB). The town along with its suburbs forms the Dindigul Electricity Distribution Circle. A Chief Distribution engineer is stationed at the regional headquarters. Water supply is provided by the Dindigul Municipal Corporation from Athoor Kamarajar Water Supply Scheme (9.6 MLD), Peranai Water Supply Scheme (7.5 MLD) and Cauvery combined water supply Scheme (6-10 MLD). As of 2001, the total water supply of the town in 14 MLD everyday. As per the municipal data for 2011, about 92 metric tonnes of solid waste were collected from Dindigul every day by door-to-door collection and subsequently the source segregation and dumping was carried out by the sanitary department of the Dindigul municipality. There is no underground drainage system in the town and the sewerage system for disposal of sullage is through septic tanks, open drains and public conveniences.\n\nThe municipality maintained a total of of storm water drains in 2011. As of 2011, the municipality maintained a total of 5,489 street lamps: 754 sodium lamps, 173 mercury vapour lamps, 4,551 tube lights and eight high mast beam lamp. The municipality operates one daily market, namely the Dindigul Municipal Market that cater to the needs of the town and the rural areas around it.\n\nThe municipality maintains four dispensaries, five maternity homes, eight family planning centres, three Siddha and one Ayurvedic centre. The Government District Headquarters Hospital is located in Dindigul and has 350 beds. The town has more than five private hospitals, 35 maternity centres, 15 laboratries and one blood bank. The historic St. Joseph Mission Hospital with a bed strength of 250 beds is one of the major hospitals in the city. For all the advanced health care systems, Madurai city is the nearest destination.\n\nThe Dindigul city corporation maintains of roads. The town has concrete roads, bituminous roads, earthen roads and cut stone pavements. There are three national highways, NH 44 (largest highway in India) connecting Dindigul to Madurai and NH 45A connecting Chennai to Kanyakumari, and NH 83 Coimbatore to Nagapattinam via Oddanchatram, Palani, Dindigul, Tiruchirapalli, Thiruvarur via the city. Natham road and Bathalagundu road are the two state highways that pass via the city. Being the district headquarters, lot of district roads also connect Dindigul to other parts of the district.\n\nDindigul is served by town bus service, which provides connectivity within the town and the suburbs. Minibus service operated by private companies cater to the local transport needs. There are 150 town buses operated daily across 128 different routes. The Kamarajar bus stand is an A-grade bus stand covering an area of as of 2007 and is located in the heart of the town. The Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation operates daily services connecting various cities to Dindigul. The State Express Transport Corporation operates long distance buses like Chennai, Bengaluru and Tirupati. There is significant truck transport with around 400–450 trucks entering the town for loading and unloading activities daily. Three wheelers, called autos and Call Taxi are also a common public transport system.\n\nDindigul Junction railway station was established in 1875 when rail line for Trichy to Tuticorin was constructed. Dindigul railway junction is located in the rail head from Chennai to Madurai and Karur to Madurai. It is also connecting Dindigul to Palani. All south bound trains plying south to Madurai from Chennai pass via Dindigul. There are also passenger trains running either side from Madurai to Tiruchirapalli and Palani. The nearest local and international airport is Madurai Airport located away.\n\nDindigul is the 18th Shakthi Peetam known as \"Sri Abhiraamaa Peetam\".\n\nNumerous temples, mosques and churches are found in Dindigul.\n\nThe Kalahastheeswara-Gnanambika temple was built during the 14th century. The Seenivasaperumal temple built in the bottom of the hill was eroded by time. By the 16th century Pandyan acquired the whole chera kingdom with the support of Vijayanagar king Sachudevarayer. Sachudevarayer, on his visit in 1538 A.D. ordered for the repair works of the temple of Abirami Amman and Padmagirinathar. This is inferred from the script written over stone in the Fort temple. Muthukrisna Nayak became the king of Pandaya kingdom in 1602 A.D. He built the strong hill fort in 1605 to secure Dindigul from invasion. He also built a fort at the bottom of the hill, which was later called Pettaiwall .Thirumalai Nayak redressed the Hill fort and he built the front hall of the Kalahastheeswaraswamy temple. Soundararaja Perumal temple in Thadikombu was erected during his reign. During his Nayak's stay in Dindigul, he fell into sickness and believed to have prayed Rangaperumal to relieve his sickness. Rani Mangammal built the six hundred steps for the hill fort. during the months of January and February, a festival honoring Mariamman is celebrated in this temple. It has a sri abirami amman temple, which is reconstructed. Arulmigu Abirami Amman temple is a holy place situated in Dindigul in Tamil Nadu, India. This is one of the important ‘Shivasthalam’ were you can find Padmagiriswarar – Abirami Amman and Kalahastheeswarar – Gnanambigai Sannathi's. The rock hill is called Padmachala, Padmagiri,Lotus Hill.\n\nBegumbur Periya Pallivasal, Dindigul, Thowheeth Masjid, Ahle Hadees Pallivasal, Bajar Masjid, Mohammadiyapuram Pallivasal, Mandi Pallivasal, Madinah Pallivasal, Ring Road Pallivasal and Makkah Pallivasal are some of the Islamic institutions in Dindigul.St.\n\nJoseph's Church at the heart of the town is known for its vast space, architecture and the glass works and special artistic work all over the church. The church was built between 1866 and 1872. It is the headquarters of Dindigul diocese of Roman Catholic Churches in DindigulDindigul Biryani is a common and popular dish, and Dindigul is sometimes called Biryani City.\n\nKodaikanal\n\nPalani\n\nDindigul Fort\n\nSirumalai\n"}
{"id": "2009658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2009658", "title": "History of Waterford", "text": "History of Waterford\n\nWaterford city is situated in south eastern Ireland, on the river Suir [pronounced Shure] about seventeen miles (27 km) from where the river enters the sea. Practically the entire city is built on the south bank of the river. The \"Old town\", now the business centre, clusters behind the broad quay-front on a low-lying strip of land left behind by a gentle loop of the river at this point. From this, the land rises sharply to the east and opposite to the west while remaining level in between. The eastern slopes are almost entirely occupied by private residential estates, while the western and southwestern prominences are largely given over to local council housing development. There are corresponding elevations on the north bank eastwards towards Christendom and westwards towards Mount Misery.\n\nThe rocks which form the base of the city all belong to the Palaeozoic Group – principally Ordovician shales underlying sandstone. On the East side of the city, the rock is crossed by an alluvial bank running N.E./S.W. At the cliffs alongside the banks of the River Suir, above Rice Bridge, inter-stratification of sharply-folded Ordovician Slates and Sandstone conglomerates may be clearly observed.\n\nWaterford is one of Ireland's oldest cities and is thought to have been founded by Vikings in the 9th century. It was taken over by Anglo-Norman invaders in the 12th century, and was one of the most important Old English centres in medieval Ireland. Since then it has seen sieges, invasions, famine and economic highs and lows. It remains the foremost city in Ireland's south-east.\n\nSee Rulers of Waterford for a list of the city's rulers from 914 to the present day.\n\nThe foundation of Waterford is claimed in some quarters to have taken place late in prehistoric times. Other writers place the event about the middle of the 2nd century. However, it is difficult to go along any distance with either theory on the strength of the supporting evidence quoted.\n\nThere are references to Vikings living in the Waterford area in the years 860, 892 and 914, and the foundation of Waterford is generally dated to 914. A popular story of Waterford's origins tells that it was established by a Viking-chieftain named Sitric in 853. This account is based on an account by Gerald of Wales, and is challenged by Clare Downs in her article \"The historical importance of Viking-Age Waterford\". An alternative origin myth is found in the 13th-century \"Ystoria Gruffudd ap Cynan\" – in which the Norwegian king Harald Finehair (c. 850 – c. 933) is said to have founded Dublin, and to have given Waterford to his brother.\n\nThis part of Ireland, in pre-Danish times, was inhabited primarily by pastoral shepherding peoples and those who made their living hunting. Towns were uncommon, excepting settlements surrounding monasteries. Seaports, in particular, were all but unheard of until the founding of Waterford, which began its history as a port town.\n\nThe Ostmen or Danes as they are more commonly called, persuaded by the rigours of their own inhospitable clime, had taken to the high seas in search of plunder. During the first half of the 9th century the shores of south-east Ireland were ravaged time after time by Danish expeditions, Ardmore and Lismore being the subjects of a number of raids. At the outset, these bellicose incursions took place only during the summer months, the raiders returning home with their spoils at the onset of winter, but later the Vikings built a permanent encampment. A number of factors influenced the choice of the site. The place provided a splendid anchorage. It was the lowest point at which the river could at that time be forded. Above all, the site could easily be defended. It was protected on three sides by water; in front by the Suir; on the east and at rear by St. John's River and the marshes flanking it. St. John's River did not then, as now, flow neatly between regular banks. Rather, its tortuous and uncontained stream meandered over much of the ground now occupied by Lombard Street, William Street, the People's Park, Catherine Street, and Parnell Street, turning this entire area into viscous marshland. These marshes also extended westwards round the back of the site of the old town. Only on the west itself were substantial fortifications necessary. This was Waterford in its infancy, a Danish stronghold, subject to constant harassment by the Irish outside the walls, who broke in on more than one occasion to lay waste the foreign colony.\n\nAmong the most prominent Kings of Waterford was Ivar of Waterford (d. 1000).\n\nDuring the late 10th and early 11th centuries, the rise of Brian Bóruma saw Waterford and a number of other Viking ports being brought firmly under the control of the O'Brien dynasty. Control of these Viking ports was significant for would-be Irish High Kings as it granted greater access to international trade and manpower.\n\nThe next phase in the life of Waterford began on 25 August 1170 when the city was taken by the Normans under Strongbow. The Normans had been casting eyes in this direction for some time prior, until MacMurrough's invitation gave them cause for coming. In 1137, Diarmuid MacMorrough, king of Leinster, failed in an attempt to take Waterford. He was trying to secure the large centres to advance his claim for high king of Ireland. In 1170 MacMorrough allied himself with Richard de Clare, 2nd Earl of Pembroke (Strongbow); together they besieged and took Waterford after a desperate defence. This was the introduction of the Anglo-Normans into Ireland. In 1171, Henry II of England became the first English king to set foot in an Irish city, by landing with a large fleet at Waterford; he did so to ensure that Ireland became an English colony and not a rival Norman country. Waterford and Dublin were declared royal cities, and belonged to the king, not Strongbow; Dublin was declared capital of Ireland. The next royal visitor, in 1185, was prince John, who granted the city's first Charter in 1205 thus starting City Government in Waterford. He revisited the city as king in 1211. Richard II, too, visited Waterford twice, first in 1394 and again in 1399.\n\nThroughout the medieval period, Waterford was Ireland's second city after Dublin. Waterford's great parchment book (1361–1649) represents the earliest use of the English language in Ireland for official purposes.\n\nIn 1487 the city refused to obey the direction of the Earl of Kildare to recognise Lambert Simnel as king and ten years later repulsed a second pretender, Perkin Warbeck. As a result, King Henry VII gave the city its motto: \"Urbs Intacta Manet Waterfordia (Waterford remains the untaken city)\". Printing was introduced into Waterford in 1550, the first book being printed in the city five years later. It was in 1588 that Duncannon was fortified as a precaution against Spanish attacks along the coast, which were being experienced at the time.\n\nUntil recently there was no record of the extent of any settlement that may have existed at Waterford prior to the middle of the 9th century. The Danish colony founded about that time (853 AD) was triangular in shape and contained approximately. This area was enclosed by stout ramparts linking Reginald's Tower with St. Martin's Castle (site in Spring Garden Alley); from thence running to Turgesius' Tower, which stood in the immediate vicinity of the Allied Irish Bank (corner of Barronstrand St) and returning along the river-front to Reginald's Tower.\n\nSubstantial remains of the wall in the 500-metre stretch between Reginald's Tower and St. Martin's Castle still exist, except where broken by the erection of the City Hall and the opening of Colbeck Street (former (Colbeck Gate). These traces may be observed between the houses of the Mall and Bailey's New Street and, further up, between Spring Garden Alley and Lady Lane, about 12 metres back from the northern frontage of the former. In the old handball alley, some four metres of the Wall—in places six metres high—stand exposed. Also, parts of the breastwork of St. Martin's Castle have been incorporated in the foundations and lower courses of the buildings that now stand on its former site.\nThere are a few traces at the wall linking St. Martin's Castle with Turgesius' Tower, and which followed the line of Michael Street and Broad Street, about sixteen to twenty metres back from the present eastern frontage of these streets.\n\nThe wall fronting the Quay has completely disappeared. It was demolished and the material thrown down to form the foundation of the present Quays, partly under the Cromwellian Commissioners in 1650 and totally by the Corporation of 1705, which improved and enlarged the Quays.\n\nWaterford was occupied by Mountjoy in 1603 during the Nine Years War (Ireland) a rebellion led by Hugh O'Neill, ostensibly in the cause of Irish freedom and the Catholic religion. Despite their own adherence to Catholicism, the townspeople largely sided with the English government forces. However, upon the coronation of James VI of Scotland as king of England in 1603, the citizens participated in an uprising that was common to the coastal cities of Munster and refused entry to Mountjoy, the king's Lord Deputy of Ireland, who had just secured the surrender of Hugh O'Neill. The motivation for Waterford's defiance lay in the people's demand for freedom of religion – they were led by Catholic priests and re-consecrated several churches in the city – although there were also mutterings about the nationality of the new king. After negotiations, Lord Mountjoy was granted entry to the city and the citizens pledged their loyalty anew.\n\nHowever, Waterford's Roman Catholic population became deeply alienated from the English Protestant state in Ireland in the following 40 years. After the Irish Rebellion of 1641, Waterford was a centre of support for the Confederate Catholics of Ireland – a de facto independent Irish state formed to fight for Irish Catholic interests in the Irish Confederate Wars. Within the Confederation, Waterford was known for its militant Catholic politics – rejecting an alliance signed between the Confederates and Charles I that would have sent Irish troops to fight for the King in the English Civil War. Waterford was visited by the Papal Nuncio to Ireland, Giovanni Battista Rinuccini in 1648. The latter, in his \"Report on the Affairs of Ireland\" sent to Pope Innocent X, described Waterford as being \"one of the only two Irish cities he would place in the front rank for reverence to the Holy See.\" In 1649 during the Cromwellian conquest of Ireland, the city was unsuccessfully besieged by Oliver Cromwell, but was forced to surrender to his Deputy, Henry Ireton, after a prolonged siege in the summer of the following year.\n\nAfter the Battle of the Boyne in 1690, both James II and William of Orange came by Waterford, James on his way to France and William returning to England. It was soon after this, about 1700, that the Huguenots came to Waterford, sponsored by the English Protestant regime.\n\nThe 18th century was a period of huge prosperity for Waterford. Most of the city's best architecture appeared during this time. Trading with Newfoundland brought much wealth into what was then the third largest port in Ireland.\n\nIn 1783, George and William Penrose founded a glass factory, which would become Waterford Crystal, the most famous business in the city.\n\nThere was no armed uprising in the area as part of the 1798 Rebellion, as a result of the rebel defeat at Wexford. There was, however, considerable United Irishmen activity in the city and district, where secret recruitment had been going on apace. Among those arraigned for seditious activity at the time was the toll collector of the then five-year-old wooden bridge over the Suir.\n\nA permanent military presence was established in the city with the completion of the Cavalry Barracks at the end of the 18th century.\n\nIn 1826, Waterford returned Henry Villiers-Stuart to Parliament against the opposition of Lord George Beresford, the outgoing candidate and powerful landowner in the district. Stuart was put forward by Daniel O'Connell's Catholic Association and O'Connell personally led his campaign here. Though not a Roman Catholic himself, Stuart was a man of liberal views and his election was an important step in the way to Catholic Emancipation which came three years later.\n\nThe Great Famine of 1846–1848 made itself felt in the city and the Corporation records of the period refer to several money grants to relieve the distress of the people. The fact that there were large quantities of rice in Waterford saved the city from the worst effects of disastrous shortage in the normal food supply.\n\nIn the 19th century, great industries such as glass making and ship building thrived in the city. Thomas Francis Meagher (Meagher of the sword), an Irish nationalist, made the first Irish tricolour. He brought it back from France and it was first flown from a building on the Mall in Waterford.\n\nIn the early 20th century John Redmond was MP for Waterford and leader of the Irish Parliamentary Party, which almost achieved home rule and a new parliament for Ireland.\n\nAfter the evacuation of British troops (Devonshire Regiment) from Waterford city at the end of the Irish War of Independence, the military and police barracks were occupied by the Waterford Flying Column, under the leadership of George Lennon of Dungarvan, which was part of the combined (1921) Waterford Brigade under the command of Pax Whelan from Dungarvan. These men opposed the Anglo-Irish Treaty of 1922 and therefore took the Republican side when the Irish Civil War commenced with the firing upon the Four Courts in late June 1922.\n\nRepublicans considered Waterford to be the eastern stronghold of the \"Munster Republic\", and linchpin of the 'Limerick-Waterford line'. In late July 1922, therefore, National Army troops under Major General John T. Prout, composed of 450 men, one 18 pounder artillery piece and 4 machine guns arrived from Kilkenny to re-take the city as part of a national offensive. Prout's second in command was Patrick Paul, formerly commander of the IRA in East Waterford. Arrested by his former comrades for supporting the Free State, he escaped disguised as a nun, to join the government forces in Kilkenny.\n\nThe Republicans had chosen to defend the city along the southern bank of the river Suir, occupying the military barracks, the prison and the Post Office. Prout placed his artillery on Mount Misery overlooking their positions and bombarded the Republicans until they were forced to evacuate the barracks and prison. However the gun had to be brought down to Ferrybank to fire over open sights before the Republicans abandoned the Post Office. Some street fighting followed before the Irregulars fled the city and retreated westward to Mount Congreve in Kilmeadan. Two Free State soldiers were killed in the fighting and one Republican fighter. Five civilians were also killed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2009662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2009662", "title": "Silvertide", "text": "Silvertide\n\nSilvertide is an American rock band from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.\n\nOriginally named Vertigo, Silvertide was formed in January 2001 in Northeast Philadelphia. At first, the band was signed by J Records, and they released their first EP \"American Excess\" in 2002. Their first full album, \"Show and Tell\", was released in 2004 and produced by David Ivory.\n\nAfter completion of their debut album in 2003, Silvertide hit the road and toured straight until 2006, most notably in support of Van Halen, Velvet Revolver, and Mötley Crüe in the summer of 2004, and Alter Bridge in 2005. On March 4, 2005, the band performed their single \"Blue Jeans\" on an episode of \"Jimmy Kimmel Live\".\n\nIn 2006, M. Night Shyamalan featured Silvertide in his film \"Lady in the Water\". Silvertide was featured on the soundtrack with their covers of Bob Dylan's \"Maggie's Farm\" and \"It Ain't Me, Babe\".\n\nIn February 2006 the band made their second appearance on the cover of Origivation Magazine. The photoshoot took place while the band was in preproduction for their next album.\n\nSilvertide continued to play shows after the temporary departure of lead guitarist and founding member Nick Perri decided to hit the road with Perry Farrell, Shinedown, and Matt Sorum. Guitarist \"Evil Rob\", also from the Philadelphia-based band Pepper's Ghost and long time friend of the band, was called to fill in for Perri on numerous occasions.\n\nSilvertide's future soon came into doubt as news of their new album had slowed down, and the band had updated their Myspace page to show their record label as \"We think J Records?\" Eventually, a few members of Silvertide began to pursue other projects including Walt Lafty and Brian Weaver's band Automatic Fire, Walt and Nick Perri's band SINAI, and various solo releases. In 2011, J Records was dissolved into RCA Records, at which time Silvertide was no longer listed on the label's roster.\n\nIn October, 2012, Silvertide created a new Facebook page and began posting old band photos, as well as hints of a potential reunion. On November 2, the band posted an announcement that Silvertide \"will be making music in 2013.\" On January 9, 2013 Silvertide announced on WMMR that they are going to play a reunion show on March 9, 2013 at The TLA and enter the studio sometime after that show. Walt also said during the reunion show that it was being recorded by \"Puffy\" Dee Miller for Silversound Productions. Cinematographers consisted of Chris Lonergan, George Morgan, Burke Pushman and Bryan Skill. What is being done with the video is unknown at this point. The show on March 9 was the first of a handful of shows the band performed in 2013.\n\nJanuary 22, 2009 vocalist Walt Lafty and bassist Brian Weaver of Silvertide started a new band called Automatic Fire with guitarist Evil Rob of the band Peppers Ghost alongside drummer Brian Kilian from the Dave Pittinger Band. In early 2010, Automatic Fire released an EP titled \"No Decoy\". The album featured a song titled \"What Are You Made Of\", which Silvertide had performed at some of their final shows in 2008. The band was dissolved in September 2010.\n\nIn October 2010 it was announced that former Silvertide members Nick Perri and Walt Lafty had reunited for the first time since Silvertide to form the new rock band SINAI. On May 1, 2012, the band released their debut album, \"A Pinch of Chaos\". After this band disbanded, Nick formed the band Mount Holly, which disbanded on November 3, 2017. On January 2, 2018, Nick's latest project, The Underground Thieves, which features Walt and Brian Weaver, was announced. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2009693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2009693", "title": "Saharanpur division", "text": "Saharanpur division\n\nSaharanpur division is an administrative geographical unit of Uttar Pradesh state of India. The city of Saharanpur is the administrative headquarters of the division.\n\nThis division has three districts under its jurisdiction: Saharanpur, Shamli and Muzaffarnagar.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2009698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2009698", "title": "Ty Conklin", "text": "Ty Conklin\n\nTy Curtis Conklin (born March 30, 1976) is an American former professional ice hockey goaltender. Throughout his National Hockey League (NHL) career, he played for the Edmonton Oilers, Columbus Blue Jackets, Buffalo Sabres, Pittsburgh Penguins, St. Louis Blues and two stints with the Detroit Red Wings.\n\nBorn in Phoenix, Arizona, Conklin grew up in Eagle River, Alaska, and was an early recruit of the now-famed Minnesota hockey prep school Shattuck-St. Mary's. He later played under Don Granato for the Green Bay Gamblers of the United States Hockey League (USHL) before attending the University of New Hampshire and playing for the Wildcats under long-tenured coach Dick Umile.\n\nA self-described \"late-bloomer\" and \"shorter kid\" at age 18, while spending his draft-eligible years (to age 20) remaining off the radar of professional scouts – first as a post-graduate at Shattuck, and then in his first year in Green Bay – Conklin went unclaimed by any team in the NHL's Entry Draft.\n\nSubsequently, he went on to earn numerous goaltending awards and accolades in both the USHL and NCAA, however Conklin claims he never thought of becoming a professional until his junior year (his second playing) at University of New Hampshire.\n\nBefore making his professional debut, Conklin spent two seasons playing for the Green Bay Gamblers of the United States Hockey League, followed by three seasons playing hockey with the University of New Hampshire's team, the Wildcats (before Conklin could join the Wildcats, he was forced to take a year off because NCAA regulations dictated he do so due to a Division I program transfer). With the completion of his career at the University of New Hampshire in the spring of 2001, Conklin signed a professional contract as an undrafted free agent with the Edmonton Oilers. He spent the bulk of his first two seasons with the Hamilton Bulldogs, the then-shared American Hockey League (AHL) affiliate for the Oilers and Montreal Canadiens, and led the Bulldogs to within one win of a Calder Cup championship in 2003. He set an AHL record for most saves in a game with 83 (in a quadruple overtime, 134:56 minute 2–1 win over the Houston Aeros in Game 2 of the 2003 Calder Cup Final) in what was then the longest game in AHL history. In the 2003–04 season, he played as back-up to Tommy Salo, effectively becoming the starter when Salo was lost to injury, and then as the joint starter with Jussi Markkanen following Salo's trade to the Colorado Avalanche. During the NHL lockout he played for Wolfsburg in the Deutsche Eishockey Liga (DEL), the German elite league.\n\nConklin also played for the United States at the IIHF Ice Hockey World Championships in the spring of 2004 and 2005. In the 2004 event, the Americans won a surprising bronze medal. Following an upset of the host Czechs and a shutout, 1–0 shootout victory over Slovakia in the bronze medal game, Conklin was selected as the tournament's best goaltender.\n\nWith the conclusion of the lockout, Conklin entered the new season as Edmonton's probable starting goaltender, backed up by Markkanen. Given the prevalent idea that either goaltender could assume the starting job, local media began using the nickname \"Conkkanen\" to describe Edmonton's starting goaltender. However, during the 2005–06 season, both goaltenders proved to be inconsistent, with Conklin's performance additionally hampered by injury and no longer considered NHL-caliber, prompting the Oilers to waive Conklin in early February and general manager Kevin Lowe to acquire a new starter, Dwayne Roloson, from the Minnesota Wild at the trade deadline.\n\nDespite having played one game for the Oilers between March and June, Conklin was on the bench in Game 1 of the 2006 Stanley Cup Final in Raleigh, against the Carolina Hurricanes. Roloson then suffered what would prove to be a series-ending knee injury late in the third period with the game tied 4–4, and Conklin was suddenly called into play. Edmonton had led by three goals at one point before allowing Carolina to then score four unanswered and take the lead before the Oilers managed to tie the game. With just over 30 seconds of time remaining in regulation, he committed a blunder that allowed Hurricanes forward Rod Brind'Amour to score the winning goal unopposed, into an empty net.\n\nIt also served as his first and at the time, only, experience in the NHL post-season; Jussi Markkanen played all subsequent six games of the series at head coach Craig MacTavish's discretion; not meant as a punishment or a reflection of Conklin's play, MacTavish explained, but, \"...I can't be in a situation that I was in during the course of the year where you are going back between 1 and 1-A, and never give them the opportunity to get confident in the net. If he struggles, he will continue to play. If he plays well, he will continue to play.\" Canadian national television analyst and former NHL goaltender Kelly Hrudey was less diplomatic than MacTavish: \"Not even a question – Markkanen. And I gain no satisfaction in saying that.\"\n\n\"Let's not turn that play into some monumental thing\", Conklin said at the time. However, the extraordinarily bad timing and subsequent massive public focus on the indelible miscue did nothing to improve his reputation, already severely diminished by a poor regular season.\n\nConklin did not return to the ice again as an Oiler, as the team option on his contract for the 2006–07 NHL season was subsequently declined. \"Obviously I needed a change of scenery\", he said. \"I kicked myself a lot after it happened, but you can't change things, so you just have to deal with it and move on.\"\n\nFollowing the start of free agency on July 1, Conklin was signed as an unrestricted free agent (UFA) by the Columbus Blue Jackets, on July 6. He was expected to compete for the Blue Jackets' backup goaltending position, however head coach Gerard Gallant opted to go with internationally experienced Fredrik Norrena. Conklin was subsequently waived and sent to the Jackets' AHL affiliate, the Syracuse Crunch. An injury to Blue Jackets' starter Pascal Leclaire prompted the team to recall him to the NHL on December 11, 2006.\n\nOn February 27, 2007, Conklin was acquired by the Buffalo Sabres in a trade for a fifth-round pick in the 2007 NHL Entry Draft. In his first start with the Sabres, Conklin made a then-career high 42 saves in a win over the Florida Panthers.\n\nOn July 19, 2007, Conklin was signed as a UFA by the Pittsburgh Penguins to a $500,000, one-year, two-way contract (that would pay him $100,000 in the AHL, exempting him from re-entry waivers). After being assigned to Wilkes-Barre/Scranton of the AHL on September 22, he was recalled by Pittsburgh on an emergency basis on December 6, when starting goaltender Marc-André Fleury suffered a high ankle sprain. His first appearance on December 11 in Philadelphia was noted and extremely unprepossessing, as he relieved Dany Sabourin in the third period of an ugly game with the division rival Philadelphia Flyers and promptly earned a 9.00 goals against average (GAA) by allowing the final three goals in an 8–2 blowout loss.\n\nAlthough initially expected to remain Sabourin's backup, Conklin instead became a sensation as Pittsburgh's \"de facto\" starting goaltender, winning his first nine starts from December 20, playing all but one game in the month of January. (Coincidentally, he was the first player to wear #35 for the Penguins since franchise goaltender Tom Barrasso, whose 12-year tenure with the team ended in 2000.)\n\nBefore Fleury's return as a starter on March 2, 2008, Conklin compiled a record of 17–6–5, earning the nickname \"Conkblock\" (derived by keeping a person away from a goal, or preventing someone from scoring) by posting career numbers (such as a 50-save win over the New York Islanders at Nassau Coliseum on February 26, despite being outshot 52–21) and leading the NHL in save percentage.\n\nDespite Conklin's later protests that \"[t]he kid has way too much talent, athleticism, and ability to not be a great goalie\", and \"I had nothing to do with it\", Fleury's noticeably improved play upon return was also partially attributed to the competition and mentoring his presence provided, as Penguins goaltending coach Gilles Meloche attested in May,\n\nConklin helped the team to not only sustain, but advance their position in the standings during Fleury's extended injury. He was considered by his teammates to have played a role equal to that of Hart Memorial Trophy nominee Evgeni Malkin in the success of the 2007–08 Pittsburgh Penguins season, and was the team's candidate for the Bill Masterton Memorial Trophy, \"given annually to the player who best exemplifies the qualities of perseverance, sportsmanship, and dedication to ice hockey.\n\nConklin played in 33 games for the Penguins, finishing with a personal record of 18–8–5 and a save percentage of .923, second overall in the NHL, and a single-season franchise record. Though he did not play, he served as Fleury's backup in all 20 of the team's playoff games, as Pittsburgh reached the 2008 Stanley Cup Finals, losing to the Detroit Red Wings four games to two.\n\nDue to the existence of the salary cap, the fact Pittsburgh had both Fleury and Sabourin under one-way contracts for 2008–09, and the likelihood of his ability to earn a major increase in both playing time and salary (the 50% raise that eventually came from the Red Wings, who guaranteed him 30 games, was seen as a bargain) with his 2007–08 performance, despite Conklin's significant and memorable contribution to the team, the Penguins did not renew his contract, and decided to allow him to reach unrestricted free agency once more on July 1.\n\nOn July 1, 2008, Conklin signed a one-year, one-way deal as a UFA with the Detroit Red Wings, worth $750,000. Along with Conklin, former Penguin Marián Hossa also signed a one-year contract with Detroit, joining the team that had just defeated them in the Stanley Cup Finals less than a month earlier. In order to meet his new teammates and familiarize himself, Conklin was one of only six Red Wings to participate in the first optional skate before training camp.\n\nDetroit head coach Mike Babcock expressed a desire to play Conklin in every third game in order to relieve starter Chris Osgood. Conklin made his first start with Detroit on the road, against the Carolina Hurricanes on October 13, where he made 27 saves in a 3–1 Red Wings victory and was named the first star of the game. On November 17, 2008, Conklin made his debut at Detroit's Joe Louis Arena against the Edmonton Oilers, posting his fifth career shutout as the Red Wings won 4–0.\n\nDue to a sub-par regular-season performance from Osgood, Conklin essentially served in an equal-time platoon situation, playing in 40 games and winning 25 to Osgood's 26, his best NHL season, in that regard, to date. Despite significantly outplaying Osgood for the vast majority of the regular season, being credited by his fellow netminder and others for stabilizing the team's goaltending situation, allowing Detroit to capture another Central Division title and the second playoff seed in the Western Conference, Osgood played all but 20 minutes in the playoffs, largely on the strength of his playoff experience.\n\nConklin received his second taste of NHL playoff experience in Game 4 of the Western Conference Finals against the Chicago Blackhawks, where he substituted for a dehydrated Osgood in the third period and played 20 scoreless minutes. The Red Wings reached the 2009 Stanley Cup Finals, losing a rematch to Conklin's former team, the Pittsburgh Penguins, in seven games.\n\nIt was announced in the 2009 off-season Conklin would not be offered a new contract for the 2009–10 season due to salary cap constraints, with the Wings instead opting to promote longtime prospect Jimmy Howard from the AHL.\n\nOn July 1, 2009, Conklin signed a two-year deal worth an average of US$1.3 million per year with the St. Louis Blues, who made him an immediate offer following the start of free agency at noon.\n\n\"It's a young team, a pretty exciting team, an up-and-coming team, and one that played as well as anyone in the second half of the [2008–09] season,\" Conklin said. \"Obviously, financially it's a lot better, a step up from what I've made the last couple years...I know the great season [Blues goaltender Chris] Mason had last year. I don't think they're signing me to play 10 games. Hopefully, I'll challenge for some ice time.\"\n\nConklin made his debut with the Blues overseas, on October 3, facing his former team, the Red Wings, at Sweden's Globe Arena, in the second game of the doubleheader of NHL Premiere 2009 Stockholm. After allowing two goals in the first 2:08, he ended with 30 saves on 33 shots as the Blues won 5–3, with his performance publicly contrasted to the widely criticized one of Jimmy Howard, his replacement on Detroit's roster, at the other end.\n\nConklin's first North American game with the Blues (also his first win and first shutout) came on October 17 away against the Anaheim Ducks, a 5–0 win. Conklin made 26 saves to earn St. Louis's first win since returning from Sweden, the second star of the game, and his 11th career shutout. Conklin did not record any of his ten wins during the 2009–10 NHL season at the Scottrade Center, home of the Blues. On February 26, 2011, Conklin was placed on waivers by St. Louis.\n\nFollowing the 2011 NHL season, Conklin returned to play for the United States at the 2011 IIHF World Championship in Slovakia, with his best performance coming on May 6 against Canada in a 4–3 shootout loss in the qualifying round. Conklin was named player of the game after making 48 saves. The U.S. reached the tournament's quarter-finals, but lost to the Czech Republic, 4–0. He became a free agent on July 1.\n\nOn July 20, 2011, Conklin signed a one-year contract worth $750,000 to return to the Detroit Red Wings as the backup to Jimmy Howard. Detroit assigned Conklin to its AHL affiliate, the Grand Rapids Griffins, on February 21, 2012. He later re-joined the Red Wings and finished his final season with a 5–6–1 record, combined with a .884 save percentage and 3.28 GAA.\n\nOn July 12, 2013, the Blues hired Conklin as their goaltender development coach, effectively signaling his retirement from playing professional hockey.\n\nConklin participated in each of the first three NHL regular-season games outdoors, the most of any NHL player — even though on each occasion he was not his team's starting goaltender even a month prior to the game. \"I count myself very lucky\", he said of the opportunity. \"There's not a guy in this league who wouldn't like to play in these games.\"\n\n\n\n\n\nConklin is the son of Robert and Beth Conklin. Although his Phoenix birth possibly makes him the first Arizona-born ice hockey player to play regularly in the NHL, Conklin spent his entire childhood in Alaska, attending West Anchorage High School until he was recruited by Shattuck-St. Mary's, a boarding school in Faribault, Minnesota. He is the first Alaskan goaltender to reach the NHL. His younger brother Brice used him for shooting practice in their basement (a reversal of the usual positions for siblings) and went on to play defense for Shattuck and for Harvard University. His brother Sid also played at Shattuck as a goaltender.\n\nConklin and his wife Erika have a daughter and son, Maggie and Chase, and gave birth to their second son, Nash, on November 15, 2008. They live in central Maine during the off-season.\n\n"}
{"id": "2009699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2009699", "title": "Filth (novel)", "text": "Filth (novel)\n\nFilth is a 1998 novel by Scottish writer Irvine Welsh. A sequel, \"Crime\", was published in 2008. It was adapted into a 2013 film of the same name, directed by Jon S. Baird with James McAvoy in the lead role.\n\nBruce Robertson is a detective sergeant serving in Edinburgh's \"Lothian Constabulary\". Robertson is a Machiavellian, intensely misanthropic man who spends his time indulging in cocaine and alcohol abuse, sexually abusive relationships, compulsive gorging on junk food, and, most of all, his penchant for \"the games\" – Bruce's euphemism for the myriad foul plots he hatches directed at workmates. He is able to pander to all of his vices during his annual holidays in Amsterdam.\n\nThe novel begins by introducing the murder of Efan Wurie, a case Bruce has been assigned. The plot has little to do with the actual crime; instead, the novel traces Bruce throughout his life, told in a first-person, stream-of-consciousness style. Through narrative devices such as the tapeworm he acquires, the reader explores the facets of Bruce's personality and learns about his past, as well as the various tedious police routines Bruce absconds from, his often-backfiring sexual endeavours, and his various short- and long-term schemes and plots against his colleagues (ultimately to raise his chances of gaining the hoped-for promotion to detective inspector). Apart from the general malevolent scheming, along the way Bruce Robertson also seeks to satisfy his cravings for violence, drugs, sex, and pornography whilst happily voicing his racism, anti-Catholic sectarianism, and misogyny, all the while pining for his ex-wife.\n\nAs the novel progresses, Bruce's mental health begins to deteriorate; it is revealed that he suffers from drug addiction and bipolar disorder, which, along with his inability to form meaningful, trust-based relationships, are exacerbated by latent, unresolved psychological problems caused by childhood abuses. Eventually Bruce is forced into taking leave due to injuries he suffers while dressed as his ex-wife, leading to the revelation that he committed the racially motivated murder that serves as the novel's main plot and that the colleagues he despises – particularly his boss Robert Toal – have been aware of his guilt all along and have been protecting him from the consequences of his actions out of a mixture of loyalty and pity. At the end of the story, Bruce kills himself, with his last thoughts being regret and hoping that his daughter does not know of his suicide.\n\n\n\nWelsh's style of writing involves mainly Scottish English; but incorporates elements and loans from the Scots language (e.g. \"tae\" is \"to\", \"dae\" is \"do\"), mainly the Edinburgh dialectal form. Also, Bruce uses rhyming slang, a common element of urban Scots dialects (such as \"Sherman tank\" – wank; Demi Moore – \"hoor\" (i.e. whore), Jackie Trent – \"bent\", and so on).\n\nIn \"Filth\", Welsh deals with freemasonry, drug abuse, sexism, racism/sectarianism, pornography, prostitution and alcohol abuse, among other problems faced by the Scottish working class.\n\nCarole, Bruce's ex-wife and the mother of his child, Stacey, is a device Welsh uses to reflect an outsider's view of Bruce Robertson's character; certain chapters only involve Carole's inner monologue related to Bruce. (It later transpires that it is, in fact Bruce fantasising while dressed as Carole.)\n\nAt a certain point in the book, the narrative starts to be interrupted by a tube-like structure that appears on top of the text, and at first is only made of the word \"eat\" being repeated amid the zeros that fill the empty space within the tube. It is later revealed that this is actually the thoughts of the tapeworm growing inside Bruce's intestines.\n\nAt first, the tapeworm only encourages Bruce to eat. Later, after becoming self-aware (and naming itself \"The Self\"), the tapeworm starts to ask basic existential questions and names Bruce as \"The Host\". It also stumbles upon the existence of other worms (collectively named by the initial worm as \"The Other\"). The tapeworm's monologues, which grow lengthier and more eloquent as the novel progresses, explain Bruce's backstory and how he became the person presented to the reader.\n\nRay Lennox – Lennox is the protagonist of \"Crime\", Welsh's sequel to Filth.\n\nAlex \"Lexo\" Setterington – Bruce references the violent rape that Lexo and his gang of football hooligans committed in \"Marabou Stork Nightmares\".\n\n\"Ghostie\" Gorman – Ghostie was among the rapists mentioned above in \"Marabou Stork Nightmares\". In \"Filth\" Bruce kills Gorman by biting out his tongue, causing him to reel backwards and fall out of a two-story window, where he suffers fatal head injuries.\n\nFrancis Begbie – Begbie was a main character in \"Trainspotting\", its prequel \"Skagboys\" and sequel \"Porno\". He is briefly mentioned a few times in \"Filth\", associated with Lexo as running a second-hand furniture store in Leith. Mention of the business Begbie and Lexo are in is also made in \"Marabou Stork Nightmares\" and \"Porno\".\n\nOther minor characters mentioned in passing throughout \"Filth\" include: Simon \"Sick Boy\" Williamson (from \"Trainspotting\", \"Skagboys\" and \"Porno\"), \"Juice\" Terry Lawson (from \"Glue\" and \"Porno\"), Danny \"Spud\" Murphy (from \"Trainspotting\", \"Skagboys\" and \"Porno\"), and \"Post\" Alec Connolly, a recurring character in \"Glue\".\n\nA film adaptation of \"Filth\" was released on 27 September 2013. It is directed by Jon S. Baird, from a script he also wrote.\n"}
{"id": "2009701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2009701", "title": "Jeremiah O'Donovan Rossa", "text": "Jeremiah O'Donovan Rossa\n\nJeremiah O'Donovan Rossa (; baptised 4 September 1831, died 29 June 1915) was an Irish Fenian leader and member of the Irish Republican Brotherhood. \n\nBorn & raised in Rosscarbery, West Cork of County Cork in the South of Ireland during the Great Irish Famine, O'Donovan founded the Phoenix National and Literary Society and dedicated his life to working towards the establishment of an independent Irish Republic. He joined the Irish Republican Brotherhood and after fleeing to the United States as part of the Cuba Five, he joined Irish revolutionary organisations there, beyond the reach of the British Empire. He was a pioneer in physical force Irish republicanism utilising dynamite in a campaign of asymmetrical warfare, hitting the British Empire on its home territory, primarily London.\n\nJeremiah O'Donovan Rossa was born Jeremiah Donovan in the townland of Reanascreena, Rosscarbery, County Cork, to Denis Donovan and Ellen Driscol, and was baptised on 4 September 1831. His parents were tenant farmers. According to the scholar John O'Donovan, with whom Rossa corresponded, Rossa's ancestors belonged to the obscure but ancient sliocht of the MacEnesles or Clan Aneslis O'Donovans. His ancestors had held letters patent in Kilmeen parish in the 17th century before the confiscations, with his agnomen \"Rossa\" coming from the townland of Rossmore in Kilmeen. So Jeremiah adopted the surname, Rossa.\n\nRossa became a shopkeeper in Skibbereen, where, in 1856, he established the Phoenix National and Literary Society, the aim of which was \"the liberation of Ireland by force of arms\", This organisation would later merge with the Irish Republican Brotherhood (IRB), founded two years later in Dublin.\n\nIn December 1858, he was arrested and jailed without trial until July 1859. In 1863 he became the business manager of James Stephens' newspaper, \"The Irish People (1863 newspaper)\" which was suppressed in 1865. He was arrested and charged with treason felony and sentenced to penal servitude for life due to his previous convictions. He served his time in Pentonville, Portland, Millbank and Chatham prisons in England.\n\nRossa was a defiant prisoner, manacled for 35 straight days for throwing a chamber pot at the prison's warden and thrown into solitary confinement on a bread-and-water diet for three days for refusing to take off his cap in front of the prison's doctor. For most of his time in prison Rossa was denied the right to correspond with his associates in the outside world because of his violation of prison rules.\n\nIn an 1869 by-election, he was returned to the British House of Commons for the Tipperary constituency, in which he defeated the Liberal Catholic Denis Caulfield Heron by 1054 to 898 votes. The election was declared invalid because Rossa was an imprisoned felon.\n\nAfter giving an understanding that he would not return to Ireland, in effect his exile, O'Donovan Rossa was released as part of the Fenian Amnesty of 1870. Boarding the ship SS \"Cuba\", he left for the United States with his friend John Devoy and three other exiles. Together they were dubbed \"The Cuba Five\".\n\nO'Donovan Rossa took up residence in New York City, where he joined Clan na Gael and the Fenian Brotherhood. Rossa additionally established his own newspaper dedicated to the cause of Irish national liberation from British rule, \"The United Irishman.\" In it Rossa advocated the terroristic use of dynamite bombs as a means of overthrowing the British occupation. His paper was used to raise a so-called \"resources for civilisation fund,\" presumably for the purchase of dynamite and other armaments for the Irish struggle.\n\nRossa organised the first ever bombings by Irish republicans of English cities in what was called the \"dynamite campaign\". The campaign lasted through the 1880s and made him infamous in Britain. The British government demanded his extradition from America, but without success. Rossa later justified his revolutionary activities in the following manner;\n\nOn 2 February 1885, Rossa was shot outside his office near Broadway by an Englishwoman, Lucille Yseult Dudley. He was admitted to the Chamers Street Hospital with gunshot wounds to the back. Even though they were not life-threatening, a ball was to remain embedded there for the rest of his life. \"I've been wounded in the war\" was Rossa's comment to a friend in the hospital. The British government claimed she was mentally unstable, and not acting on its behalf, although Rossa's supporters and even many of his detractors found this hard to believe. More likely, she was incensed at the fund he organised (the so-called \"Skirmishing Fund\") which was intended to support the arming of those who would fight the British.\n\nRossa was allowed to visit Ireland in 1894, and again in 1904. On the latter visit, he was made a \"Freeman of the City of Cork.\"\n\nO'Donovan Rossa was married three times and had eighteen children. On 6 June 1853, he married Honora Eager of Skibbereen, who bore him four sons (Denis, John, Cornelius Crom and Jeremiah). She died in 1860. In 1861 he married Ellen Buckley of Castlehaven; they had one son (Florence Stephens; later known as Timothy in the US); Buckley died in July 1863. In November 1864 he married, for the third time, to Mary Jane (Molly) Irwin of Clonakilty. They had thirteen children (James Maxwell, Kate Ellen, Francis Daniel, Maurice, Sheila Mary, Eileen Ellen, Amelia, Jeremiah, Isabella, Mary Jane, Margaret Mary Hamilton, Joseph Ivor and Alexander Aeneas).\n\nO'Dovonan Rossa's great-great grandson is US international rugby union player John Quill.\n\nRossa was seriously ill in his later years, and was finally confined to a hospital bed in St. Vincent's Hospital, Staten Island, where he died at the age of 83.\n\nThe new republican movement in Ireland was quick to realise the propaganda value of the old Fenian's death, and Tom Clarke cabled to John Devoy the message: \"Send his body home at once\".\n\nHis body was returned to Ireland for burial and a hero's welcome. The funeral at Glasnevin Cemetery on 1 August 1915 was a huge affair, garnering substantial publicity for the Irish Volunteers and the IRB at time when a rebellion (later to emerge as the Easter Rising) was being actively planned. The graveside oration, given by Patrick Pearse, remains one of the most famous speeches of the Irish independence movement stirring his audience to a call to arms. It ended with the lines:\n\n\"They think that they have pacified Ireland. They think that they have purchased half of us and intimidated the other half. They think that they have foreseen everything, think that they have provided against everything; but, the fools, the fools, the fools! — They have left us our Fenian dead, and while Ireland holds these graves, Ireland unfree shall never be at peace.\"\n\nHis grave was renovated in 1990 by the National Graves Association.\n\nA memorial to O'Donovan Rossa stands in St. Stephen's Green, and a bridge over the River Liffey was renamed in his honour. A street in Cork City bears his name, as does a street in Thurles, Co. Tipperary – the constituency where he was elected. A park in Skibbereen is also named after him as is the local Gaelic football team.\n\nA memorial to O'Donovan Rossa stands in the village of Reenascreena, Rosscarbery Co Cork where his descendants run the local village pub. The funeral casket that was used to ship him home is now on display next to the pub.\n\nOther GAA teams throughout Ireland have also been named after him including Ard Bó Uí Dhonnabhain Rossa in the Tyrone GAA, O'Donovan Rossa GAC in Belfast, Ó Donnabháin Rosa Magherafelt in the Derry GAA and Uí Donnabháin Rosa Mullach Breac in Armagh GAA along with Ó Donnabháin Rosa est. in 2018 in Astoria, Queens, New York.\n\nThe descendants of Jeremiah O'Donovan Rossa made their homes in Staten Island; they include writer William Rossa Cole and New York City Councillor Jerome X. O'Donovan.\n\nIn James Joyce's \"Araby,\" written between 1905 and 1907, the narrator hears \"the nasal chanting of street-singers, who sang a come-all-you about O'Donovan Rossa.\"\n\nRossa appears as a character in Harry Harrison's alternate history \"Stars and Stripes trilogy\".\n\n\nRepublications\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2009703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2009703", "title": "Ikara Colt", "text": "Ikara Colt\n\nIkara Colt were an English four-piece indie rock band, formed by art students at London Guildhall University. They had a five-year career, beginning in 1999 and ending on 17 January 2005. The band had stated in interviews their intention to disband before they \"turn into some old, tired and jaded outfit\". They broke up after two albums and one EP. In the UK, the band were signed to the London-based independent record label, Fantastic Plastic Records, while Epitaph distributed their records in the US.\n\nThe band were not typically associated with any particular music scene, playing on tour with a variety of diverse bands, though influences included bands such as Sonic Youth and The Fall.\n\nIn 2003, they undertook a six-week tour of the US, with Sweden's Sahara Hotnights and the US's The Washdown.\n\nOriginal bass player Jon Ball left the band in 2003, to be replaced by Tracy Bellaries (formerly of Soulbossa), although Ball was still involved for most of the songwriting process and some of the recording of \"Modern Apprentice\", the band's second and final album. Bellaries afterwards joined the group Mystery Meat, and later Part Chimp.\n\n\n\n\"Modern Apprentice\" is the final album released by Ikara Colt before their eventual break-up in January 2005. The album was recorded with Tracy Bellaries playing most of the bass parts, despite the fact she had not been in the band for most of the writing process but had only joined after the departure of Jon Ball. As such, a number of tracks credit both members due to Ball having written (or played) the bass lines in full or part. The album was released in June, 2004 on Fantastic Plastic Records with the single \"Wanna be That Way\" preceding it. \"Wake in the City\" and \"Modern Feeling\" were also released as singles later in 2004. The track \"Automatic\" is followed by a sho\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2009709", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2009709", "title": "Posting rule", "text": "Posting rule\n\nThe posting rule (or mailbox rule in the United States, also known as the \"postal rule\" or \"deposited acceptance rule\") is an exception to the general rule of contract law in common law countries that acceptance of an offer takes place when communicated. Under the posting rule, that acceptance takes effect when a letter is posted (that is, dropped in a post box or handed to a postal worker). In plain English, the \"meeting of the minds\" necessary to contract formation occurs at the exact moment word of acceptance is \"sent\" via post by the person accepting it, rather than when that acceptance is \"received\" by the person who offered the contract.\n\nThe rules of contracts by post (postal rules) include the following:\n\nOne rationale given for the rule is that the offeror nominates the post office as his or her implied agent, and thus receipt of the acceptance by the post office is regarded as receipt by the offeror. The main effect of the posting rule is that the risk of acceptance being delivered late or lost in the post is placed upon the offeror. If the offeror is reluctant to accept this risk, he can always expressly require actual receipt as a condition before being legally bound by his offer.\n\nThe rule was established by a series of 19th century cases, starting with \"Adams v Lindsell\" (1818) B & Ald 681, which was later confirmed and expanded in \"Dunlop v Higgins\" (1848) 1 HL Cas 381, \"Household Fire and Carriage Accident Insurance Co Ltd v Grant\" (1879) 4 Ex D 216 and \"Henthorn v Fraser\" [1892] 2 Ch 27.\n\nThe posting rule applies only to acceptance. Other contractual letters (such as one revoking the offer) do not take effect until the letter is delivered, as in \"Stevenson, Jacques & Co v McLean\" (1880) 5 QBD 346. The implication of this is that it is possible for a letter of acceptance to be posted after a letter of revocation of the offer has been posted but before it is delivered, and acceptance will be complete at the time that the letter of acceptance was posted—the offeror's revocation would be inoperative.\n\nExample 1:\n\nExample 2:\n\nExample 3:\n\nUnder the posting rule, performance is a means of acceptance. If A orders 1000 blue coathangers and B ships them out, that shipment is considered to be a conveyance of acceptance of A's offer to buy the coathangers. Defective performance is also an acceptance, unless accompanied by an explanation. For example, if A orders 1000 blue coathangers, and B mistakenly ships 1000 red coathangers, this is still an acceptance of the contract. However, if B ships the red coathangers with a note that they sent these because they had run out of blue coathangers, this is not an acceptance, but rather an accommodation, which is a form of counter-offer.\n\nAn interesting implication of the operation of the posting rule is that an acceptance is complete once the letter of acceptance is posted; it makes no difference whether the offeror actually receives the letter. This was demonstrated in \"Byrne v Van Tienhoven\" (1880) 5 CPD 344. If a letter of acceptance were to be lost, acceptance has still taken place. \n\nFurthermore, the posting rule does not apply to instantaneous forms of communications. For example, in \"Entores Ltd v Miles Far East Corporation\" [1955] 2 QB 327, the Court held that the posting rule did not apply to an acceptance by telex as the Court regarded it as an instantaneous form of communication. The general principle that acceptance takes place when communicated applies to instantaneous forms of communication. Courts have similarly held that the posting rule does apply to acceptances by telephone or fax. \n\nThe courts are yet to decide whether e-mail should be regarded as an instantaneous form of communication. If the offeree were to convey acceptance by commercially unreasonable means – by cross-country pony express, for example – the acceptance would not be effective until it had actually been received.\n\nA letter is regarded as \"posted\" only when it is in the possession of the Post Office; this was established in the case of \"Re London & Northern Bank\" [1900] 1 Ch 220. A letter of acceptance is not considered \"posted\" if it is handed to an agent to deliver, such as a courier. This is not the case under the Uniform Commercial Code.\n\nThe posting rule does \"not\" apply to option contracts or irrevocable offers where acceptance is still effective only upon receipt. This is because the offeree no longer needs protection against subsequently mailed revocations of the offer.\n\nIn the United States, the majority rule is that the mailbox rule does not apply to option contracts. By default, an option contract is accepted when the offeror receives the acceptance, not when the offeree mails it. However, because the California Civil Code applies the mailbox rule to all contracts, California follows the minority rule, under which the mailbox rule also applies to option contracts.\n\nIn \"Tallerman & Co Pty Ltd v Nathan's Merchandise\" (1957) 98 CLR 93, 111-112 Dixon CJ and Fullagar J took a more restrictive view. \"The general rule is that a contract is not completed until acceptance of an offer is actually communicated to the offeror, and a finding that a contract is completed by the posting of a letter of acceptance cannot be justified unless it is to be inferred that the offeror contemplated and intended that his offer might be accepted by the doing of that act.\" The High Court included the element of intention.\n\nCivil law jurisdictions do not follow the postal rule. The classical civil law position is that acceptance, like any expression of will, can only be effective if it was communicated to the addressee, unless the lack of communication can be attributed to the latter. The Vienna Convention on the International Sale of Goods chooses a compromise between the two approaches: According to article 18(2) of the Convention, an acceptance is effective when it reaches the offeror. However, article 16(1) of the Convention provides for the most important consequence of the common law \"posting rule\", that is, an offer may not be revoked if the revocation reaches the offeree after it has dispatched an acceptance.\n\nMany countries have enacted legislation based on the UNCITRAL Model Law of Electronic Commerce. Such legislation is often entitled the Electronic Transactions Act. Among other issues, this legislation deals a default rule for the time that email (electronic communications) is sent and when it is received. However it is mistaken to suggest that it deals with a clarification of the postal acceptance rule for electronic communications. There are two schools of thought.\n\n\nThe UNCITRAL rules on time of sending and receiving are:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2009710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2009710", "title": "Ross and Cromarty (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Ross and Cromarty (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nRoss and Cromarty was a county constituency of the House of Commons of the UK Parliament from 1832 to 1983. It elected one Member of Parliament (MP) using the first-past-the-post voting system.\n\nWhen created in 1832 by the Scottish Reform Act 1832 it combined in one seat the former seats Ross-shire and Cromartyshire.\n\nIn 1918 Lewis (a large island several miles offshore) was taken from the seat and merged into the then new Western Isles constituency, and the Fortrose component of the former Inverness Burghs constituency and the Dingwall and Cromarty components of the former Northern Burghs constituency were merged into the Ross and Cromarty constituency.\n\nIn 1983 the remaining area of the seat was merged with the Isle of Skye and Isle of Raasay areas of the then-Inverness seat to form Ross, Cromarty and Skye.\n\n1890 to 1918\n\nCounty councils were created in Scotland in 1890, and so the constituency area became also the county council area of Ross and Cromarty, minus the Fortrose, Dingwall and Cromarty parliamentary burghs.\n\n1918 to 1975\n\nWhen reformed in 1918 the constituency covered the county of Ross and Cromarty (including the former parliamentary burghs) minus Lewis.\n\n1975 to 1983\n\nCounty councils were abolished in 1975 and replaced with regions and districts and island council areas. The constituency area was then that of the district of Ross and Cromarty plus the Lochalsh area of Skye and Lochalsh. Both districts were within the Highland region.\n\nSee also\n\n\nStewart-Mackenzie resigned after being appointed as Governor Ceylon, causing a by-election.\n\nMatheson's resignation caused a by-election.\n\nGeneral Election 1914/15:\n\nAnother General Election was required to take place before the end of 1915. The political parties had been making preparations for an election to take place and by the July 1914, the following candidates had been selected; \n\nGeneral Election 1939/40\n\nAnother General Election was required to take place before the end of 1940. The political parties had been making preparations for an election to take place and by the Autumn of 1939, the following candidates had been selected; \n"}
{"id": "2009711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2009711", "title": "It Came from Outer Space", "text": "It Came from Outer Space\n\nIt Came from Outer Space is a 1953 American black-and-white science fiction horror film, the first in the 3D process from Universal-International. It was produced by William Alland and directed by Jack Arnold. The film stars Richard Carlson and Barbara Rush, and features Charles Drake, Joe Sawyer, and Russell Johnson. The script is based on Ray Bradbury's original story treatment and not, as sometimes claimed, a published short story, \"The Meteor\".\n\n\"It Came from Outer Space\" tells the story of an amateur astronomer and his fiancée who are stargazing in the desert when a large fiery object crashes to Earth. At the crash site, he discovers a round alien spaceship just before it is completely buried by a landslide. When he tells the local sheriff and newspaper editor what he saw, he is branded a crackpot. Before long, odd things begin to happen, and the disbelief turns hostile.\n\nAuthor and amateur astronomer John Putnam (Richard Carlson) and schoolteacher Ellen Fields (Barbara Rush) watch a large meteorite crash near the small town of Sand Rock, Arizona. They awaken a neighbor, who has a helicopter, and all three fly to the crash site. Putnam climbs down into the crater and notices a partially buried round object in the crater's pit. He comes to the realization, after he sees a six-sided hatchway close, that this isn't a meteorite but a large alien spaceship. The hatchway's noise starts a landslide that completely buries the craft. Putnam's story is later scoffed at by Sand Rock's sheriff (Charles Drake) and the local news media.\n\nEven Ellen Fields is unsure about what to believe but still agrees to assist Putnam in his investigation. Over the next several days, local people disappear; a few return, but they act distant or appear somewhat dazed and not their usual selves. Convinced by these and other odd events, Sheriff Warren comes to believe Putnam's story that the meteorite is actually a crashed spaceship with alien inhabitants; he then organizes a posse to hunt down the invaders at their crash site. Putnam, however, hopes to reach a peaceful solution to the looming crisis. Alone, he enters a nearby abandoned mine, which he hopes will eventually connect to the now buried spaceship and its alien occupants.\n\nPutnam finally discovers the spaceship and learns from the alien leader that they crashed on Earth by accident; the aliens appear benign and only plan to stay on Earth just long enough to repair their damaged craft and then continue on their voyage. The aliens' real appearance, when finally revealed to Putnam, is entirely non-human: they are large, single-eyed, almost jellyfish-like beings that seem to glide across the ground, leaving a glistening trail that soon vanishes. They are also able to shape shift into human form in order to appear human and move around Sand Rock, unobserved, in order to collect their much needed repair materials. To do this, they copy the human forms of the local townspeople that they have abducted. In doing so, however, they fail to reproduce the townspeople's exact personalities, leading to suspicion and eventually to the deaths of two of the aliens.\n\nThe aliens have decided to destroy themselves and their spaceship, now that they have been discovered. Putnam reasons with them at length and convinces the alien leader to instead finish the repairs while he, as a sign of the aliens' good faith, takes the captives outside to the sheriff and his posse. To protect the aliens from the sheriff and his advancing posse, Putnam manages to seal off the mine in order to give them the time they still need to finish their spaceship's repairs. \n\nShortly afterwards the alien spaceship leaves Earth. Putnam's fiancée Ellen asks him if they are gone for good. He responds \"No, just for now. It wasn't the right time for us to meet. But there will be other nights, other stars for us to watch. They'll be back\".\n\n\n\nThe screenplay by Harry Essex, with input by Jack Arnold, was derived from an original and lengthy screen treatment by Ray Bradbury; screen legend says that Bradbury wrote the screenplay and Harry Essex merely changed the dialogue and took the credit. Unusual among science fiction films of the era, the alien \"invaders\" were portrayed by Bradbury as creatures stranded on Earth and without malicious intent toward humanity. Bradbury said \"I wanted to treat the invaders as beings who were not dangerous, and that was very unusual\". He offered two story outlines to the studio, one with malicious aliens, the other with benign aliens. \"The studio picked the right concept, and I stayed on\".\nIn 2004 Bradbury published in one volume all four versions of his screen treatment for \"It Came From Outer Space\".\n\nFilming took place on location in and around the California towns of Palmdale, Victorville, and the Mojave Desert, as well as on Universal's sound stages.\n\nThe film's uncredited music score was composed by Irving Gertz, Henry Mancini, and Herman Stein.\n\nUniversal's make-up department submitted two alien designs to studio executives for consideration; the rejected design was saved and later used as the \"Metaluna Mutant\" in Universal's 1955 science fiction film \"This Island Earth\".\n\nThe fiery special effects created for the crashing alien spacecraft consisted of a wire-mounted iron ball with dorsal fin, which had hollowed out \"windows\" all around for the burning magnesium inside.\n\nThe Arizona setting and the alien abduction of telephone lineman and two other characters are fictionalized story elements taken from Bradbury's younger life when his father moved the family to Tucson, where he worked as a telephone lineman.\n\nUrban legend has it that an extra in an Army corporal's uniform seen at the \"meteor\" crash site is comedy writer-performer Morey Amsterdam. While the briefly glimpsed extra does indeed resemble Amsterdam, no hard evidence (e.g., cast call bureau records, interviews with Amsterdam) has ever confirmed this is actually him. The most recent DVD re-release of \"It Came from Outer Space\" comes with a documentary, \"The Universe According to Universal\". It was written and directed by David J. Skal and has audio commentary by Tom Weaver, in which Weaver notes the extra's similarity to Morey Amsterdam.\n\n\"It Came from Outer Space\" was released in June 1953; by the end of the year it had accrued US$1.6 million in distributors' US and Canadian rentals, making it the year's 75th biggest earner.\n\nBarbara Rush won the Golden Globe award in 1954 as most promising female newcomer for her role in the film.\n\nThe film was nominated for AFI's Top 10 Science Fiction Films list.\n\nPatricia Bosworth, writing in 1992, counted \"It Came from Outer Space\" as one of a number of '50s Hollywood anti-Communist propaganda films in which \"aliens from outer space serve as metaphors for the Soviet menace\". Bosworth's inclusion of the Korean War-era film as anti-Communist propaganda is at odds with both The American Film Institute and story author Ray Bradbury, who stated, \"I wanted to treat the invaders as beings who were not dangerous, and that was very unusual\". No Earthlings are killed or injured in the film by the aliens. If they were intended to be stand-ins for the Soviet Union/Communists, as Bosworth professes, their presence in an Arizona town is antithetical to how Communist surrogates were portrayed in Hollywood science fiction films during the Cold War. Bosworth blames her father's 1959 suicide on his being targeted by the Hollywood Blacklist; her father, defense lawyer Bartley Crum, died of an alcohol and barbiturate overdose.\n\n\"The New York Times\" review by A. H. Weiler noted \"the adventure ... is merely mildly diverting, not stupendous. The space ship and its improbable crew, which keep the citizens of Sand Rock, Ariz., befuddled and terrified, should have the same effect on customers who are passionately devoted to king-sized flying saucers and gremlins\". \"Brog\" in \"Variety\" opined that \"Direction by Jack Arnold whips up an air of suspense in putting the Harry Essex screenplay on film, and there is considerable atmosphere of reality created, which stands up well enough if the logic of it all is not examined too closely ... story proves to be good science-fiction for the legion of film fans who like scare entertainment, well done\".\n\nSince its original release, the critical response to the film has become mostly positive. Bill Warren has written that \"Arnold's vigorous direction and Bradbury's intriguing ideas meld to produce a genuine classic in its limited field\". Jonathan Rosenbaum described the film as \"[A] scary black-and-white SF effort from 1953\". Phil Hardy's \"The Aurum Film Encyclopedia: Science Fiction\" observed \"Dark desert roads and sudden moments of fear underline Arnold's ability as a director of Science Fiction films, and Essex's/Bradbury's lines match his images superbly\". Of the reviews included on Rotten Tomatoes regarding \"It Came from Outer Space\", 81% of critics liked the film. One of the negative reviews, from FilmCritic.com, states that the film \"moves terribly slowly (despite an 80 minute running time) because the plot is overly simplistic with absolutely no surprises\".\n\nUniversal digitally restored \"It Came From Outer Space\", and in October 2016 released it on Blu-ray. The film is presented in its original 3D with three-track stereophonic sound. Also included is a non-3D \"flat\" version in mono sound and the 3D and flat theatrical release trailers. Rounding out the Blu-ray package is a documentary on Universal's 3D films and a \"making of\" voice-over commentary track.\n\nA made-for-TV sequel entitled \"It Came from Outer Space II\" was released in 1996, starring Brian Kerwin, Elizabeth Peña, Jonathan Carrasco, Adrian Sparks, Bill McKinney, Dean Norris, Lauren Tewes, Mickey Jones and Howard Morris. Written by Jim and Ken Wheat, it was directed by Roger Duchowny, and was his final work before retiring. The story is essentially a remake of the first film, with former small town resident Jack Putnam (Kerwin) returning and witnessing an alien craft landing. Strange things then begin to happen, with his neighbours behaving oddly and the power going off and on.\n\nWriting for \"The Radio Times\", Alan Jones gave the film one star out of five and called it a \"lacklustre update\" which was \"proof positive that 40 years of technical advances can't compensate for poor production values, boring characters and a complete lack of thrills.\" He summarised: \"file this under 'don't bother.'\" Leonard Maltin called the original \"intriguing\" and \"remarkably sober for its era, with crisp performances and real restraint, even in its use of 3-D\" and the 1996 effort \"a much inferior remake, rather than the sequel the title suggests.\" In the \"New York Daily News\", David Bianculli wrote that \"the fact that this is a remake not a sequel, yet carries the suffix \"II\" anyway, is a clue about how clearly the makers of this new version were thinking when they made it. In other words, not very.\"\n\n\n\nInformational notes\nCitations\nBibliography\n\n"}
{"id": "2009713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2009713", "title": "Enter key", "text": "Enter key\n\nOn computer keyboards, the enter key (or the return key on Macs and most Sun Workstations) in most cases causes a command line, window form, or dialog box to operate its default function. This is typically to finish an \"entry\" and begin the desired process, and is usually an alternative to pressing an OK button.\n\nThe \"return\" key is often also referred to by many American groups (and even marked) as the \"enter\" key, and they usually perform identical functions; however in some particular applications (mainly page layout, word processing and in typewriting), \"return\" operates specifically like the carriage return key from which it originates. It normally has an arrow pointing down and left (⏎ or ↵), which is the symbol for carriage return. In contrast, the \"Enter\" key is commonly labelled with its name in plain text on generic PC keyboards, or with the symbol ⌤ (U+2324 ) on many Apple Mac keyboards.\n\nThe enter key is typically located on the lower right of the numeric keypad, and the return/enter key on the right edge of the main alphanumeric portion of the keyboard, between backspace and the right-hand shift (and/or control) key (as well as below the backslash key on keyboards using a standard ANSI / US-International layout).\n\nThe return/enter key can have various physical shapes.\n\nOn some keyboard layouts, the return and enter key are two different keys, an artifact of the differing handling of newlines by different operating systems. As an example, on the Macintosh, the return key is the usual key, while the enter key is positioned at the lower right of the numeric key pad. While using the type tool in Adobe Photoshop, the return key produces a new line while the enter key ends editing mode.\n\nOn IBM's 3270 and 5250 line of terminals, the Enter key was located to the right of the space bar and was used to send the contents of the terminal's buffer to the host computer. The Return key was located in a more standard location and was used to generate a new line.\n\nApple also took advantage of this situation to create an editable command line environment called a \"Worksheet\" in the Macintosh Programmer's Workshop, where return was used strictly as a formatting key while enter was used to execute a shell command or series of commands in direct mode.\n\nIn technical terms, the Macintosh keyboard maps the return key to a carriage return, while the enter key maps to a newline.\n\nHistorically, many computer models did not have a separate keypad, and only had one button to function as Enter or Return. For example, the Commodore 64 (manufactured from 1982) had only the \"Return\" key.\n\nIn Mathematica, the Return key creates a new line, whereas the Enter key (or Shift-Return) submits the current command for execution.\n\nIn pocket calculator-like programs (for example, Microsoft Calculator for Windows users), the enter key of the numeric keypad acts like the \"equal to\" (=) button to obtain the result of the previously entered operations.\nIn graphical computer applications, the enter or return key is often used to close and submit a form the user is editing. Usually the default \"OK\" or \"Save\" button on a form is highlighted and sometimes shows a Return symbol, giving a subtle visual clue that the user has the option of clicking the button or simply pressing Enter.\n\nIn modern word processing applications, pressing the return key ends a paragraph and starts a new one. Spacing between the paragraphs can be defined through paragraph styles.\n\nBefore computers, on electric typewriters the \"Return\" key was kept comparatively large. This is due to the frequency of usage (which also includes the space bar), and therefore, is kept large to reduce the likelihood of finger slips.\n\n"}
{"id": "2009724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2009724", "title": "List of British weapon L numbers", "text": "List of British weapon L numbers\n\nThis is a listing of British Armed Forces weapons and related stores identified by their L number (\"L\" standing for Land Service) or weapon identity number. The L number in isolation is not a unique identifier; the L1 designation alone is used for a rifle and its corresponding bayonet, a machine gun, a tank gun, a sighting telescope, an anti-riot grenade, two separate rocket systems, a necklace demolition charge, and two separate types of user-filled demolition charge. Rather, the number is used in conjunction with a description, e.g. \"\"Rifle, 7.62mm, L1A1\"\" or \"L1A1 7.62mm Rifle\". The A number following the L number refers to the particular version of a piece of equipment; unlike some similar designation systems used by other countries where an A number is only used for subsequent versions of equipment, an A1 designation is always used for the first version to be officially adopted. Use of L numbers starts in the 1950s and an equivalent system for military vehicles is the FV series (fighting vehicle). On occasion, the number following the letter designation corresponds to the year that the item was adopted; for example, the rifle variant of the SA80 was first adopted in 1985 and was designated as the \"\"L85 5.56mm Rifle\"\".\n\nSome weapons such as the M18A1 Claymore, M79 grenade launcher and M6-895 and M6-640 mortars were not given L numbers and are referred to in official documentation by their manufacturer's designations instead. Likewise, legacy items such as the No.8 Mk 1 Rifle that were given designations under the old numerical system continued to be referred to by those designations until replacement.\n\nRoyal Navy weapons systems are designated by \"N\" (\"N\" standing for Naval Service), though in many cases weapons with L number designations continue to be referred to as such. Similar designation systems are used by various other militaries; for example, Canada uses \"C\" (\"C\" standing for Canadian), Australia uses \"F\" (\"F\" standing for Forces), and the United States of America use \"M\" (\"M\" standing for Model).\n\n"}
{"id": "2009741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2009741", "title": "Radek Dvořák", "text": "Radek Dvořák\n\nRadek Dvořák (born March 9, 1977) is a Czech former professional ice hockey right winger. Dvořák was drafted in the first round of the 1995 NHL Entry Draft, tenth overall, by the Florida Panthers. A veteran of 1,260 NHL games, Radek has played for the Panthers, New York Rangers, Edmonton Oilers, St. Louis Blues, Atlanta Thrashers, Dallas Stars, Anaheim Ducks and the Carolina Hurricanes.\n\nDvořák began his NHL career as an 18-year-old with the Florida Panthers in the 1995–96 season. In 77 games, Dvořák scored 13 goals and 27 points, as the Panthers reached the playoffs for the first time in club history. Dvořák helped the Panthers to the 1996 Stanley Cup Finals, earning four points in 16 games. He saw his numbers improve in his second season, scoring 18 goals and 39 points in 78 games to finish fourth in team scoring. He missed 18 games during the 1997–98 NHL season, but still scored 12 goals and 24 assists for 36 points. In his fourth season, Dvořák played in every game, scoring 19 goals and 43 points. He scored four shorthanded goals which placed him in a tie for fourth in the NHL. In 1999–2000, Dvořák scored 7 goals and 17 points in 35 games before being traded. On December 30, 1999, the Panthers traded him to the San Jose Sharks in exchange for Mike Vernon and the Sharks' third-round pick in the 2000 NHL Entry Draft, after which the Sharks traded Dvořák to the New York Rangers for Todd Harvey and the Rangers' fourth-round pick in the 2001 NHL Entry Draft.\n\nDvořák finished the 1999–2000 season with the Rangers, scoring 11 goals and 33 points in 46 games. In 2000–01, Dvořák was placed on a line with fellow Czechs Petr Nedvěd and Jan Hlavac and he would have a breakout season. In 79 games, Dvořák scored 31 goals and 36 assists for 67 points to finish fourth in team scoring. However, the Rangers would once again miss the playoffs. Dvořák saw his production fall during the 2001–02 season, scoring 17 goals and 37 points in 65 games. His production continued to fall during the 2002–03 season, as Dvořák had six goals and 27 points in 63 games with the Rangers. On March 11, 2003, the Rangers traded Dvořák and Cory Cross to the Edmonton Oilers in exchange for Anson Carter and Aleš Píša.\n\nDvořák appeared in 12 games with the Oilers in 2002–03, scoring four goals and eight points, as Edmonton qualified for the playoffs. In his first playoff action since 1997, Dvorak scored a highlight reel goal in which he skated from end to end, scoring a game-winning goal. It would be his only point in four playoff games. Dvořák returned to the Oilers in 2003–04, where he scored 15 goals and 50 points in 78 games, however, Edmonton failed to make the playoffs. During the 2004–05 NHL lockout, Dvorak played with HC České Budějovice. He returned to the Oilers in 2005–06, where he had only eight goals and 28 points in 64 games. In the playoffs, Dvořák had two assists in 16 games, as the Oilers lost to the Carolina Hurricanes in the 2006 Stanley Cup Finals. He left the Oilers during the off-season, as he signed a one-year contract with the St. Louis Blues on September 14, 2006.\n\nDvořák spent the 2006–07 season with the Blues, where in 82 games, he scored 10 goals and recorded 27 assists for 37 points. The Blues failed to qualify for the playoffs, and Dvořák left as a free agent after the season, returning to the Florida Panthers on July 1, 2007.\n\nDvořák returned to his original NHL team in the 2007–08 season. In 67 games with the Panthers, Dvořák had only 8 goals and 17 points. He saw his numbers rebound in the 2008–09 season, with 15 goals and 36 points in 81 games. On July 1, 2009, Dvořák signed a two-year, $3.4 million contract extension with Florida. In the 2009–10 season, he had 14 goals and 32 points in 76 games. On December 7, 2009, he played in his 1,000th NHL game against his former club, the Edmonton Oilers, at the BankAtlantic Center.\n\nDuring the 2010–11 season, the Panthers honoured Dvořák for playing more career games as a Panther than anyone in franchise history on November 23 before a game against the Pittsburgh Penguins. In 53 games that year, Dvořák had 7 goals and 14 assists for 21 points.\n\nOn February 28, 2011, the Panthers traded Dvořák (along with a fifth-round pick in the 2011 NHL Entry Draft) to the Atlanta Thrashers in exchange for Patrick Rissmiller and Niclas Bergfors.\n\nOn July 1, 2011, Dvořák signed a one-year, $1.5 million contract with the Dallas Stars. On December 1, 2011, Radek Dvořák recorded his 350th career assist.\n\nDuring the 2012–13 NHL lockout, and as a free agent, Dvořák signed a contract with HC Davos of the Swiss National League A. He played in the final seven regular season games with Davos and contributed in their post-season campaign before he signed for the remainder of the shortened 2012–13 NHL season with the Anaheim Ducks on March 24, 2013.\n\nOn September 3, 2013, it was announced by Carolina Hurricanes general manager Jim Rutherford that Dvořák would be invited to attend the Carolina Hurricanes' training camp. He subsequently signed a two-way contract with Carolina on October 2, 2013. He scored his first goal for the Hurricanes in the second period of a game against the Philadelphia Flyers.\n\nDvořák retired from professional hockey on January 27, 2015, after 18 seasons and 1,260 games played in the NHL.\n\n"}
{"id": "2009752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2009752", "title": "Arsinoe I", "text": "Arsinoe I\n\nArsinoe I (, 305 BC – after c. 248 BC) was Queen of Egypt by marriage to Ptolemy II Philadelphus.\n\nShe was the second daughter and youngest child born to King Lysimachus and Nicaea of Macedon. Arsinoe I had two older siblings: a brother called Agathocles and a sister called Eurydice.\n\nArsinoe's paternal grandfather was Agathocles of Pella, a nobleman who was a contemporary to King Philip II of Macedon who reigned 359-336 BC, while her maternal grandfather was the powerful Regent Antipater. Arsinoe I was named in honor of an unnamed grandmother, who may have been the mother of Lysimachus or the mother of Nicaea whose both names of these women are unknown. Little is known of her life prior to her marriage.\n\nBetween 289/88 and 281 BC, Arsinoe became the first wife of Ptolemy II Philadelphus, pharaoh of the Ptolemaic Kingdom, who was also her distant maternal cousin. Arsinoe I married Ptolemy II as part of an alliance between her father and Ptolemy II, against Seleucus I Nicator.\n\nArsinoe was, by marriage, Queen of the Ptolemaic Kingdom. Arsinoe bore Ptolemy II three children; two sons: Ptolemy III Euergetes, Lysimachus of Egypt and a daughter called Berenice. At an unknown date between after 279-274/3 BC, the sister of Ptolemy II, who is known as Arsinoe II, arrived in Egypt. She was the last wife of Lysimachus and had fled from her half-brother and husband Ptolemy Keraunos. Probably at the instigation of Arsinoe II, charges of conspiring to assassinate Ptolemy II were soon brought against Arsinoe.\n\nAs a result of the charges, Ptolemy II convicted Arsinoe of plotting against him. He repudiated her then exiled her to Coptos in Upper Egypt. It is chronologically plausible that these events were also connected to the banishment of Ptolemy II's niece Theoxena, as Theoxena was sent to the Thebaid, perhaps to Coptos as well.\n\nAfterwards, Ptolemy II married his sister, Arsinoe II, and after her death, his children with Arsinoe were officially regarded as the children of Arsinoe II.\n\nArsinoe I lived in exile for twenty years. During her exile, she lived in great splendour and enjoyed considerable privilege, since she was the former wife of a pharaoh. Her first son with Ptolemy II succeeded his father after his death.\n\nA surviving stele has been found at Coptos which refers to Arsinoe I. The Stele is of Senu-sher, a steward of Arsinoe I and the Stele is assigned to Arsinoe I's exile. The stele calls Arsinoe I the \"king’s wife\", but her name is not enclosed in the royal cartouche as was customary for an Egyptian queen. Another piece of surviving evidence connected to Arsinoe I is a Phoenician inscription found at Lapithos, Cyprus, which is dated in the 11th or 12th year in the reign of Ptolemy II. The inscription refers to a sacrifice instituted by Yatonba’al on behalf of \"the legitimate scion and his wife\", hence refers to Arsinoe I. As Arsinoe I was disgraced as a traitor, the fact the person who did the sacrifice on her behalf strongly suggests that the news of her disgrace had not yet reached him.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2009757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2009757", "title": "M. F. Enterprises", "text": "M. F. Enterprises\n\nM. F. Enterprises was a 1966–67 comic book publisher owned by artist and 1970s pulp-magazine entrepreneur Myron Fass, whose holdings also included the black-and-white horror comics magazine imprint, Eerie Publications.\n\nM.F.'s best-known character was Captain Marvel (no relation to the Fawcett Comics, DC Comics or Marvel Comics superheroes of that name), a crimefighting alien android who could detach his head, limbs and hands and send them flying off in all directions whenever he shouted \"Split!\" and reattach them when he shouted \"Xam!\".\n\nM. F. Enterprises also published \"Henry Brewster\" from February 1966 to September 1967, a teen-humor comic created by artist Bob Powell, which lasted seven issues and followed the adventures and misadventures of the red-headed All-American teenager and his friends: the big, squeaky-voiced jock Animal; brainy, bespectacled Weenie; and the beautiful Debbie and Melody. Their teacher was a former secret agent named Mr. Secrett, who was always happy to lend a handy gadget when needed.\n\nAlthough the M. F. Enterprises brand stopped publishing comics in 1967, publisher Myron Fass continued with his Eerie Publications line of black-and-white mostly horror comic magazines until 1981.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2009763", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2009763", "title": "Liftershalte", "text": "Liftershalte\n\nA liftershalte or liftplaats (in the Dutch language) is a spot (\"halte\" means stop, like in \"bushalte\"), marked by an official sign, where a hitchhiker (\"lifter\") can easily be picked up by car drivers. In the Netherlands these spots can be found at the following places (2018):\n\n\nIn the past there were also liftershaltes in:\n\n"}
{"id": "2009771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2009771", "title": "Aleš Hemský", "text": "Aleš Hemský\n\nAleš Hemský (, born 13 August 1983) is a Czech former professional ice hockey player. He most recently played for the Montreal Canadiens in the National Hockey League (NHL). \n\nHe was originally a member of the Edmonton Oilers, who selected him in the first round, 13th overall, of the 2001 NHL Entry Draft. He played over ten seasons with Edmonton before being traded to the Senators in 2014. He has represented the Czech Republic at two Winter Olympics. He retired from hockey in May, 2020. \n\nAleš Hemský is married to Julie Hemský, and they have two sons together.\n\nOn 13 December 2017, Hemský, along with teammates Jordie Benn, Andrew Shaw, Karl Alzner, Jeff Petry, Charles Hudon, and Artturi Lehkonen, all went bald as part of the Leucan Shaved Head Challenge, as well as raised $33,000 for children battling cancer.\n\nHemský entered pro hockey as a 16-year-old, playing for HC Moeller Pardubice of the Czech Extraliga, in his hometown of Pardubice. He split the 1999–2000 season between Moeller and their junior club, HC Moeller Pardubice Jr. Hemský decided he had a better chance to be scouted if he played Canadian Junior hockey than if he tried to make the jump to the Czech Extraleague, and he subsequently became the first selection of the Hull Olympiques in the 2000 CHL Import Draft.\n\nIn 2000, Hemský moved to North America to play for the Hull Olympiques of the Quebec Major Junior Hockey League (QMJHL). The following season, 2000–01, Hemský led all rookies in scoring with 36 goals and 100 points. He was named to the All-Rookie team, was selected to play in the 2001 CHL Top Prospects Game, and was awarded the Mike Bossy Trophy as the QMJHL's top pro prospect.\n\nHemský continued his success in Hull during the 2001–02 season, with 27 goals and 97 points in 53 games, and finished 19th in the QMJHL scoring race.\n\nOn 12 October 2002, Hemský recorded his first career assist against the Nashville Predators. On 4 January 2003, Hemský scored his first career goal against the Montreal Canadiens, in his 26th game of his rookie season. During his rookie NHL season, he scored six goals and 30 points in 59 games, and was a healthy scratch for 23. He also went pointless in all six of Edmonton's playoff games.\n\nHemský returned to the Czech Republic to play 47 games for HC Moeller Pardubice during the 2004–05 NHL Lockout. During that time, he scored 13 goals and 31 points, fifth on the club. Pardubice won the Extraleague championship for the first time in 16 years, and Hemský was named playoff MVP for his efforts.\n\nDuring the 2005–06 season, Hemský had a career year, setting personal bests in every major statistical category. He scored 19 goals, 58 assists and 77 points, while playing in all but one game for the Oilers during the regular season. The Oilers captured the eighth and final playoff seed in the Western Conference. In the playoffs, the Oilers went on to eliminate the Detroit Red Wings in six games in round one, then beat the San Jose Sharks in games as well in round two. In the Conference finals, the Oilers knocked off the Anaheim Ducks in five games. The Oilers, however, lost the Stanley Cup Finals in seven games to the Carolina Hurricanes.\n\nHemský was an important part to the Oilers run to the Finals. Among his opportune goals were two he scored in the third period of game six against the Detroit Red Wings, including the series-winner. Hemský underwent a biopsy on an inflamed lymph node on the right side of his neck during the playoffs. Results have not been made public.\n\nAlso that season, Hemský was selected to represent the Czech Republic in the 2006 Winter Olympics. Czech hockey icon Jaromír Jágr had a large influence on Hemský's selection, to the point where he insisted that Hemský skate on his line. The two had previously played together on the Czech team that won the 2005 IIHF World Ice Hockey Championships during the NHL's 2004–05 lockout season. Hemský scored twice in the Olympic tournament, and the Czech Republic defeated Russia in the bronze-medal game.\n\nEdmonton re-signed Hemský in the summer of 2006 to a six-year contract worth US$24.60 million. The 2006–07 campaign saw Hemský notch 53 points in 64 games, missing 18 games due to shoulder injuries. The 2007–08 season was a short one, as the Oilers were eliminated from playoff contention. Hemský finished first on the team overall in points scoring with 71, and was first in assists with 51. He sat in third place for goals with 20, a career high. The 2008–09 campaign was another that saw injuries for Hemský, who played 72 out of the 82 regular season games and finished first on the team with 23 goals and 43 assists for 66 points. Hemský recorded seven goals and 15 assists during the first 22 games of the 2009–10 season before suffering a left shoulder injury following a check from behind by Los Angeles Kings forward Michal Handzuš. The injury required surgery and Hemský missed the remainder of the regular season.\n\nIn the 2010–11 season, Hemský was named to the 2011 NHL All-Star Game, but did not participate due to a concussion. Hemský missed the remainder of the season due to a shoulder injury. Hemský, Taylor Hall, and Sam Gagner, led the Oilers with 42 points for the majority of the season, until the trio of injured players were surpassed by Jordan Eberle. Hemský recorded his 400th career point scoring a goal, in a 9–2 victory over the Chicago Blackhawks.\n\nAfter missing the first part of the 2011–12 season due to injury, Hemský struggled, posting just 11 points in his first 25 games, including a nine-game pointless streak. He picked up the pace thereafter, scoring 15 points in his next 22 games, leading the Oilers to sign him to a two-year, $10 million deal on 24 February 2012. On 21 March 2012, Hemský recorded his first career NHL hat trick, finishing with four points in a 6–3 victory over the Nashville Predators. After coming back from two shoulder surgeries, Hemský had a disappointing start to the season, and finished the year with 36 points in 69 games.\n\nIn the final year of his contract and with the Oilers again out of playoff contention, on 5 March 2014, Hemský was traded to the Ottawa Senators for a fifth round pick in the 2014 NHL Entry Draft and a third round pick in the 2015 NHL Entry Draft. He quickly found success on Ottawa's top line alongside center Jason Spezza, recording six points in his first three games. He finished the season with 17 points in 20 games as the Senators fell short of the playoffs.\n\nUnable to agree to a new contract with the Senators, Hemský signed as a free agent on a three-year, $12 million contract with the Dallas Stars on 1 July 2014. In signing with the Stars, he was joined by Senators linemate Jason Spezza, who was coincidently traded to the Stars earlier in the day. He also joined former Oilers teammate Shawn Horcoff in Dallas.\n\nGoing to free agency, Hemský signed a one-year, $1 million contract with the Montreal Canadiens on 3 July 2017. A severe concussion suffered during a game against the Anaheim Ducks on 20 October ended his season after only 7 games. By September 2018, the Canadiens had not renewed his contract and no other team had yet shown interest, although symptoms from the concussion were gone.\n\nOn 15 May 2020, Hemský officially announced his retirement from professional hockey.\n\nHemský was a member of the bronze medal-winning Czech team at the 2006 Winter Olympics. He missed the 2010 Winter Olympics, but was selected for 2014 Olympic ice hockey tournament at Sochi in 2014 and became the highest scorer for the Czech team during the 2014 games, with three goals and four points. Hemský has also represented his country in three International Ice Hockey Federation (IIHF) world ice hockey tournaments, winning a gold medal with the team in 2005 and bronze in 2012. He made his first appearance in a Czech uniform for the 2002 World Junior Ice Hockey Championships.\n\nIn addition to representing Czech Republic in ice hockey, Hemský represented his country in the IIHF inline hockey World Championship tournaments in 2008 and 2012. In the 2008 tournament, Hemský tied for fourth place in scoring with six goals and five assists while leading the Czech Republic to a fifth-place finish.\n\n"}
{"id": "2009773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2009773", "title": "BRW (magazine)", "text": "BRW (magazine)\n\nBRW (formerly Business Review Weekly) was an Australian business magazine published by the Fairfax Media group. The magazine was headquartered in Melbourne. It regularly compiled lists which rank corporations and individuals according to various criteria, similar to \"Fortune\" magazine in the United States. \"BRW\" provided news and commentary on the economy, business and investment in Australia. The magazine reported on successful business strategies, investments and entrepreneurialism. Cover stories and features concentrated on ways to make money and improve businesses. Each week \"BRW\" focused on a sector or topic relevant to business people or investors.\n\nIn October 2013, Fairfax announced that the print version of the magazine would be discontinued, with the 28 November 2013 magazine being the last edition.\n\nFrom December 2013, \"BRW\" became an online-only publication and the paywall previously in place was removed. Some popular annual lists will also be published in Fairfax's \"The Australian Financial Review\". On 4 March 2016, Fairfax announced the closure of the BRW website, with staff and the BRW website to be redirected to a new section of \"The Australian Financial Review\". Rich lists, which would also be published by \"The AFR\" would continue to carry the BRW branding.\n\nEach year \"BRW\" names the 200 richest people in Australia and the magazine regularly includes stories about how the wealthy made their money and what they will do next.\n\nOther annual lists published by \"BRW\" include:\n\n\nIn 2009 \"BRW\" launched the \"BRW Fast Club\", which was developed to drive new business opportunities, forge partnerships and discuss current business issues for Australia’s fastest growing businesses. The \"BRW\" Fast Club is a community of like-minded entrepreneurs that comprises members of the \"BRW\" Fast 100, \"BRW\" Fast Franchises and \"BRW\" Fast Starters lists from the past five years; members of the \"BRW\" Top 500 Private Companies List; and businesses who fit the criteria of the above and supply their company financials for verification. The \"BRW\" Fast Club meet throughout the year to network and discuss topics relating to cash flow management, strategic planning, business expansion, offshore expansion, finance (including managing capital and finding new sources), sales, how to sell your business, and IPOs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2009779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2009779", "title": "Dongfeng County", "text": "Dongfeng County\n\nDongfeng County () is located in southwestern Jilin province, China and is under the administration of Liaoyuan City.\n\nIt is mainly agricultural with the main crops being wheat and maize (corn). \nIts major industry is a pharmaceutical company (Dongfeng Yaoye), after which the county town's main street is named. \nDeer are also raised for their meat and antlers, which are used in Chinese medicine.\n\nIt is a relatively poor county with salaries starting at Y300. Many people in the county town are unemployed and rely on riding \"daoqilu\" (pedicabs where the driver is seated at the back and the passengers at the front) and tuk tuks to make a living.\n\nThe county is linked by a single track railway to Liaoyuan and Siping in one direction and Meihekou in the other, with trains running to Beijing, Tonghua and Changchun amongst other places. There is also a frequent bus service to Meihekou, the nearest large town, which can also be reached by shared taxi for Y20 or Y5 a person. Buses also link Dongfeng with Liaoyuan, Siping, Changchun, Shenyang, and other cities and counties.\n\nTemperatures range from up to 30 C in the short summer to minus 30 or even minus 40 C in the long winter, during which snow covers the ground and the rivers and drains are iced up.\n\nMost of the people living in Dongfeng are Han Chinese, but there are also scattered ethnic Korean communities, and a Korean Township. However, the local media do not have any Korean language programmes or newspapers to cater for them and many of the Koreans in Dongfeng have lost their Korean language skills even though there is a Korean language secondary school and a Korean church available to them.\n\nThe county administers 12 towns, one township, and one ethnic township.\n"}
{"id": "2009782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2009782", "title": "Redmond O'Hanlon", "text": "Redmond O'Hanlon\n\nRedmond O'Hanlon, FRGS, FRSL (born 5 June 1947) is an English writer and scholar.\n\nO'Hanlon was born in 1947 in Dorset, England. He was educated at Marlborough College and then Oxford University. After taking his M.Phil. in nineteenth-century English studies in 1971 he was elected senior scholar, and in 1974 Alistair Horne Research Fellow, at St Antony's College, Oxford. He completed his doctoral thesis, \"Changing scientific concepts of nature in the English novel, 1850–1920\", in 1977.\n\nThough very religious when he was young, O'Hanlon became a militant atheist upon his discovery of the works of Charles Darwin.\n\nFrom 1970–74, O'Hanlon was a member of the literature panel of the Arts Council of Great Britain.\n\nHe was elected a member of the Society for the Bibliography of Natural History in 1982, a Fellow of the Royal Geographical Society in 1984 and a Fellow of the Royal Society of Literature in 1993. For fifteen years he was the natural history editor of the \"Times Literary Supplement\".\n\nO'Hanlon has become known for his journeys into some of the most remote jungles of the world, in Borneo, the Amazon basin and Congo. He has also written a harrowing account of a trip to the North Atlantic on a trawler.\n\nBetween September 2009 and May 2010, Redmond O'Hanlon was a guest and co-presenter on the programme \"\" for both Canvas in Belgium and VPRO Television in the Netherlands. In the programme, the clipper \"Stad Amsterdam\" re-traced the route that Charles Darwin took aboard (1831–36), a journey that played a seminal role in his thinking on evolution.\n\nHe attended the \"Science & Technology Summit\" at the World Forum Convention Center in The Hague on 18 November 2010. Fellow \"Beagle\" shipmate Sarah Darwin was another featured guest at this convention. \n\nIn November 2011 VPRO Television began broadcasting \"O'Hanlons helden\" (English: O'Hanlon's heroes). In this eight-part series O'Hanlon introduces the viewer to his heroes of the nineteenth century. The programme was awarded with the prestigious Dutch television award, \"De Zilveren Nipkowschijf\" (English: The Silver Nipkow disk). This Silver 1st prize is awarded annually by a professional jury to the best quality television programme. A second eight-part series of \"O'Hanlons helden\" was broadcast in the winter of 2013–2014.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2009786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2009786", "title": "Bayonne Board of Education", "text": "Bayonne Board of Education\n\nBayonne Board of Education is a comprehensive public school district serving students from pre-kindergarten through twelfth grade from Bayonne in Hudson County, New Jersey.\n\nAs of the 2017-18 school year, the district and its 13 schools had an enrollment of 9,907 students and 689.2 classroom teachers (on an FTE basis), for a student–teacher ratio of 14.4:1.\n\nThe district is classified by the New Jersey Department of Education as being in District Factor Group \"CD\", the sixth-highest of eight groupings. District Factor Groups organize districts statewide to allow comparison by common socioeconomic characteristics of the local districts. From lowest socioeconomic status to highest, the categories are A, B, CD, DE, FG, GH, I and J.\n\nAfter the state rejected a budget plan that would have cut 85 positions and raised taxes by almost 4%, the board of education voted in April 2017 to cut a total of 300 positions, including 260 non-tenured teachers, to achieve $6 million in savings from the earlier proposed $133 million budget.\n\nDuring the 2008-09 school year, Public School #14 Gifted & Talented was recognized with the National Blue Ribbon School Award of Excellence by the United States Department of Education, the highest award an American school can receive. In 2009-2010, Washington Community School was awarded the Blue Ribbon Award.\n\nFor the 2004-05 school year, Mary J. Donohoe No. 4 School was named a \"Star School\" by the New Jersey Department of Education, the highest honor that a New Jersey school can achieve. It is the fourth school in Bayonne to receive this honor. The other three are Bayonne High School in 1995-96, Midtown Community School in 1996-97 and P.S. #14 in the 1998-99 school year.\n\nDuring the 2008-2009 school year, Washington Community School was awarded the ASCA Honor Council Excellence Award, which is given to school's Student Councils who have met the requirements and completed projects in the areas of in leadership, citizenship, and community service.\n\nSchools in the district (with 2017-18 enrollment data from the National Center for Education Statistics) are:\n\nThe Bayonne Board of Education has implemented a dress code that took effect in the 2006-2007 school year for students in Pre-K through 8th grade. The plan was intended to \"increase student identification with their schools and the district, Eliminate many of the distractions associated with differences in social or economic status, Allow the children, their teachers and the Board of Education to concentrate on shared pursuit of educational excellence and Instill a sense of belonging and school pride\". A heated battle was fought between enraged parents and grandparents and the Board, with parents and grandparents upset at the manner in which the policy was imposed, the cost of the uniforms, the loss of freedom of expression to students in choosing the clothing they wear and issues regarding the manner in which the contract was awarded.\n\nCore members of the district's administration are:\n\nThe district's board of education has nine members who set policy and oversee the fiscal and educational operation of the district through its administration. As a Type II school district, the board's trustees are elected directly by voters to serve three-year terms of office on a staggered basis, with three seats up for election each year held (since 2015) as part of the November general election.\n\nIn a November 2015 referendum, voters approved by a 3-1 margin a change from a Type I (appointed) to Type II (elected) school board.\n\n"}
{"id": "2009788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2009788", "title": "Lightning Comics", "text": "Lightning Comics\n\nLightning Comics may refer to:\n"}
{"id": "2009789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2009789", "title": "Ch'u-chou", "text": "Ch'u-chou\n\nCh'u-chou may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2009808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2009808", "title": "Vasile Tomoiagă", "text": "Vasile Tomoiagă\n\nVasile Tomoiagă (born 20 January 1964) is a retired rower from Romania. He competed at the 1984, 1988 and 1992 Olympics and won silver medals in the coxed pairs in 1984 and 1988. He won a silver and a bronze medal in this event at the 1985 and 1987 world championships, as well as a gold medal in the coxed fours in 1989.\n"}
{"id": "2009811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2009811", "title": "Right of possession", "text": "Right of possession\n\nThe right of possession (\"jura possessionis\") means that someone currently holds something in hand and this person may be the temporary keeper or the long-term owner of an object.\n\nThis term is most commonly used in regards to property and is a land-backed asset. This legal tradition holds that whoever occupies property and uses it for its friendly function has the right to possess it.\n\nSeveral examples have been given of the right of :\n"}
{"id": "2009815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2009815", "title": "NME Originals", "text": "NME Originals\n\nThe NME Originals is a collection of articles and reviews from the \"NME\" and \"Melody Maker\" magazines about one band or genre. The first issue was about the Beatles, published on 3 April 2002. Many issues in the series were produced by \"NME\" editorial director Steve Sutherland, but some of the later titles, such as those on the former Beatles' solo years and Mod, were under the editorship of Chris Hunt.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2009817", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2009817", "title": "Mashmakhan/The Family", "text": "Mashmakhan/The Family\n\nMashmakhan/The Family is a 1995 album by the Canadian rock band Mashmakhan, compiling both of their early 1970s albums.\n\nMashmakhan debuted in 1970 with three singles, \"As the Years Go By\", \"Gladwin\" and \"Days When We Are Free\", which were compiled into their self-titled debut album. Mashmakhan later launched their second album, \"The Family\" in 1971, which had little-to-no success, Mashmakhan started to realise that fact, and broke up shortly after. In 1995, both of the albums, were compiled into one compact disc for the first time. However, the last track of \"The Family\", \"Mr. Tree\", was cut off due to time restraints.\n\nThe album was well received by critics, receiving a four and a half out of five star review from Allmusic. Allmusic critic and writer Keith Pettipas stated in his review, \"Looking back, Mashmakhan was ahead of their time; they did progressive rock for a commercial audience,\" while progressive rock is primarily used for underground music. Pettipas went on and said Mashmakhan incorporated \"flutes and strings\" when \"hard rock was dominant\" and they were \"one of the first Canadian acts to become international stars.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2009820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2009820", "title": "Alexander Andreyevich Ivanov", "text": "Alexander Andreyevich Ivanov\n\nAlexander Andreyevich Ivanov (; July 28 (July 16 [OS]), 1806 – July 15 (July 3 [OS]), 1858) was a Russian painter who adhered to the waning tradition of Neoclassicism but found little sympathy with his contemporaries. He was born and died in St. Petersburg. He has been called the master of one work, for it took 20 years to complete his magnum opus \"The Appearance of Christ Before the People\".\n\nAlexander Andreyevich was born to an art professor Andrey Ivanov. Aged 11, he entered the Imperial Academy of Arts and studied at his father's course together with Karl Briullov. For his good achievements he was awarded with two silver medals, in 1824 he received a golden medal for the painting 'Priam Asking Achilles to Return Hector's Body'. In 1827 he was honoured with the Big Gold Medal of the Imperial Academy of Arts for 'Joseph interprets the butler's and the baker's dreams' and was promoted to the XIV grade artists.\n\nIvanov's benefactors decided to send him abroad to study art, but required one more picture, thus he creates 'Bellerophon sent to a campaign against the Chimera'. In 1830 Ivanov departs to Europe, first in Germany, then to Italy.\n\nIvanov's first works in Rome were copies of The Creation of Adam of the Sistine Chapel and some drafts of Biblical scenes. He dreamed to create an epic painting of the Messiah coming to people, but first he decided to try himself on lesser scale picture. In 1834-1835 he finished 'Appearance of Jesus Christ to Maria Magdalena'. The painting had great success both in Rome and St Petersburg. The Russian Imperial Academy of Arts granted Ivanov an honorary academic degree in 1836.\n\nHe spent most of his life in Rome where he befriended Gogol and was influenced by the Nazarenes. \n\nIvanov spent 20 years (1837–1857) in Rome, working on his greatest masterpiece 'The Appearance of Christ Before the People'.\n\nCritical judgement about Ivanov improved in the following generation. Some of the numerous sketches he had prepared for \"The Appearance\" have been recognized as masterpieces in their own right. The most comprehensive collection of his works can be viewed at the Russian Museum in St. Petersburg.\n\n"}
{"id": "2009822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2009822", "title": "Caine Prize", "text": "Caine Prize\n\nThe Caine Prize for African Writing is an annual literary award for the best original short story by an African writer, whether in Africa or elsewhere, published in the English language. The £10,000 prize was founded in the United Kingdom in 2000, and was named in memory of Sir Michael Harris Caine, former Chairman of Booker Group plc. Because of the Caine Prize's connection to the Booker Prize, the award is sometimes called the \"African Booker\". The prize is currently known as the AKO Caine Prize for African Writing.\n\nIt was first awarded in 2000 to the Sudanese writer Leila Aboulela for her short story \"The Museum\", at the Zimbabwe International Book Fair in Harare. In its first year the Prize attracted entries from 20 African countries.\n\nThe winner is announced at a dinner in July, formerly held in Oxford but most recently at SOAS, University of London, to which the shortlisted candidates are all invited. This is part of a week of activities for the candidates, including readings, book signings and press opportunities.\n\nAmong supporters of the prize are friends of Sir Michael Caine in the UK, United States and Africa, the Oppenheimer Memorial Trust, the Zochonis Foundation, the Marit & Hans Rausing Foundation, the Gatsby Charitable Foundation, the Headley Trust, the Esmee Fairbairn Charitable Trust, the David Alliance Family Foundation, the Cairns Charitable Trust, the Botwinick-Wolfensohn Family Foundation, the Sunrise Foundation, the Von Clemm Charitable Trust, the Royal Over-Seas League, Sarova Hotels, Bata Shoes (Kenya) Ltd and (Zimbabwe) Ltd and Kenya Airways.\n\nThe four African winners of the Nobel Prize for Literature have supported the Caine Prize as patrons: Wole Soyinka, Nadine Gordimer, Naguib Mahfouz and J. M. Coetzee. Baroness Nicholson of Winterbourne, Sir Michael's widow, is President of the council and Jonathan Taylor is the chairman.\n\nIn 2011, African writer Ikhide R. Ikheloa criticized the prize, suggesting that \n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "2009825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2009825", "title": "Roxburghshire (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Roxburghshire (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nRoxburghshire was a Scottish county constituency of the House of Commons of the Parliament of Great Britain (at Westminster) from 1708 to 1801, and of the Parliament of the United Kingdom (also at Westminster) from 1801 to 1918.\n\nThe British parliamentary constituency was created in 1708 following the Acts of Union, 1707 and replaced the former Parliament of Scotland shire constituency of Roxburghshire.\n\nThe name relates the constituency to the county of Roxburgh.\n\nThe constituency elected one Member of Parliament (MP) by the first past the post system until the seat was abolished in 1918.\n\nWhen the constituency was abolished in 1918, the Roxburgh and Selkirk constituency was created, covering the counties of Roxburgh and Selkirk\n\nScott resigned, causing a by-election.\n"}
{"id": "2009831", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2009831", "title": "SouthEast Service", "text": "SouthEast Service\n\nThe SouthEast Service is a proposed commuter rail line to be operated by Metra, the commuter railroad service for the Chicago metropolitan area. The route of the proposed line would use tracks owned by CSX Transportation and the Union Pacific Railroad.\n\nFormerly, the Chicago and Western Indiana Railroad and the Chicago and Eastern Illinois Railroad operated commuter service on this line out of Dearborn Station to Dolton and Momence, respectively. The Chicago and Eastern Illinois commuter line to Momence ended in 1935, while the Chicago and Western Indiana service to Dolton was discontinued in 1964.\n\nThe building of a line from Chicago to the south suburbs ending at Balmoral Park has been discussed as early as 1986. In 2003, Metra officials proposed the SouthEast Service at the insistence of Congressman Jesse Jackson, Jr. that the south suburbs be included as part of Metra's larger request for federal dollars after they were largely excluded from the proposed STAR Line. Its northern terminus would be LaSalle Street Station in downtown Chicago. The line would then traverse Chicago's southern neighborhoods and its southern and far southern suburbs to Balmoral Park south of Crete, Illinois. Its average daily ridership was projected to be 9000. A fleet of Diesel Multiple Units (DMUs) has been proposed for this service.\n\nIn 2005, the SouthEast Service received initial funding authorization. In 2010, Al Riley became the chief sponsor of House Bill 1644 which created the Southeast Commuter Rail Transit District as a municipal corporation under Illinois state law. The district created has the right of eminent domain to acquire private property which is necessary for the purposes of the district and the power to contract for public mass transportation with Metra. The district includes Crete, Steger, South Chicago Heights, Chicago Heights, Glenwood, Thornton, South Holland, Dolton, Calumet City, Lansing, and Lynwood. The bill was signed into law by Governor Pat Quinn on March 8, 2011.\n\nAccording to the Chicago Metropolitan Agency for Planning's ONTO 2050 regionally significant projects benefit report published in October 2018, the SouthEast Service is undergoing alternatives analysis and the identification of a Locally Preferred\nAlternative is in process. In 2019, the SouthEast Service was included in a Cost Benefit Analysis by Metra as a Tier 2 project.\n\nThe Center for Neighborhood Technology, an advocate for the new line, estimates that the SouthEast Service would more than double the number of average jobs accessible by transit in sixty minutes for the south suburbs on the line. In a 2016 letter to the editor, Martin J. Oberman, while the Chairman of Metra, supported the SouthEast Service.\n\nFrom north to south:\n"}
{"id": "2009832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2009832", "title": "Lance Guest", "text": "Lance Guest\n\nLance R. Guest (born July 21, 1960) is an American film and television actor, best known for his starring role in 1984's \"The Last Starfighter\".\n\nGuest developed a serious interest in acting as a freshman while attending Saratoga High School, and he majored in theater while attending UCLA. He has starred in many theatrical films, including his role as Jimmy alongside actress Jamie Lee Curtis in \"Halloween II\" (1981), and also starred in \"Neil Simon's I Ought to Be in Pictures\". His most notable role was in the science fiction film \"The Last Starfighter\" (1984) as Alex Rogan, and as Beta, a robot sent to replace Alex while he was in space. He has starred in \"\" (1987) as Michael Brody. Guest played Cosmo Cola in \"Stepsister from Planet Weird\" (2000). He played Hugo Archibald in \"The Jennie Project\" (2001). Also that year, he appeared in \"Mach 2\" (2001).\n\nGuest's starring television roles included \"Lou Grant\" (1981–1982) and \"Knots Landing\" (1991). Guest has guest-starred on \"St. Elsewhere\", \"The Wonder Years\", \"Party of Five\", \"JAG\", \"NYPD Blue\", \"The X-Files\", \"Becker\", \"Life Goes On\", \"House\", and \"Jericho\".\n\nGuest has starred on Broadway as Johnny Cash in the musical \"Million Dollar Quartet\", a fictionalized depiction of the only time Carl Perkins, Jerry Lee Lewis, Johnny Cash, and Elvis Presley ever recorded music as a group.\n\n"}
{"id": "2009839", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2009839", "title": "2005 Ohio's 2nd congressional district special election", "text": "2005 Ohio's 2nd congressional district special election\n\nOn August 2, 2005, elections were held in Ohio's 2nd congressional district to choose a United States Representative to replace Rob Portman, who had resigned his seat in April to become United States Trade Representative. Jean Schmidt, the Republican Party candidate, defeated Democrat Paul Hackett, in a surprisingly close election as the district has not elected a Democrat since Tom Luken won a 1974 special election.\n\nThe district is the 57th most Republican congressional district in the nation by the reckoning of the \"Cook Political Report\". It stretches along the Ohio River from the Hamilton County suburbs of Cincinnati east to Scioto County, and includes all of Adams, Brown Pike, and Clermont counties and parts of Hamilton, Scioto and Warren counties.\n\nIt includes all of the Warren County municipalities of Lebanon, South Lebanon, Loveland, Maineville, Morrow, Butlerville, and Pleasant Plain, and parts of the municipalities of Mason and Blanchester. All of Union, Hamilton, Harlan, Salem, and Washington Townships were in the district, as well as parts of Turtlecreek Township immediately adjacent to the city of Lebanon, and southern Deerfield Township. The Hamilton County municipalities of Sharonville, Blue Ash, Deer Park, Loveland, Madeira, Newtown, Terrace Park, and Indian Hill were in the district, along with eastern parts of Cincinnati. All of Anderson and Symmes Townships and parts of Sycamore Township and the city of Springdale are also in the district.\n\nThe district (known as the First District before 1982) has been in Republican hands for all but nine years since 1879. The last Democrat to win a full term in this district was Jack Gilligan in 1964. No Democrat had held the seat since Thomas A. Luken's narrow loss to Willis D. Gradison in 1974. Since Luken's defeat, no Democrat had won more than 40% of the vote in the general election.\n\nPortman won the seat in a 1993 special election with 77 percent of the vote. In six subsequent campaigns he never received less than 70 percent.\n\n\nDeWine amassed a campaign treasury larger than all his rivals combined, raising over $750,000. He was helped by his father, thousands coming from the political action committees associated with Republican colleagues of his father, such as Mississippi Senator Trent Lott. McEwen was dependent on his own money, contributing $250,000 to his campaign. Schmidt also made significant contributions to her campaign.\n\nDeWine's father was also a hindrance to the campaign. Never the most conservative of Republican senators, DeWine angered supporters of President George W. Bush by his participation in a deal to avoid the \"nuclear option\" to filibusters on Bush's nominees to federal courts. Pat DeWine told the press had he been in Congress, he would not have supported his father's compromise.\n\nMore damaging to DeWine were the questions raised about his personal life. In 2004, he had faced incumbent John Dowlin in the March primary for the Republican nomination to be county commissioner. Dowlin had run ads calling attention to DeWine leaving his pregnant wife and their two children for a mistress working as a lobbyist. Though Dowlin lost, the issue was resurrected by DeWine's rivals in 2005. McEwen and Schmidt made it a point in their stump speeches to emphasize how long they had been married to their spouses, Schmidt declaring \"I am a woman of character who has been married for twenty-nine years.\"\n\nDeWine focused his attention on the most experienced candidate, Bob McEwen. DeWine said McEwen had \"wasted taxpayers' money\" by having the most expensive Congressional office of any Ohio member of the U.S. House. DeWine criticized McEwen's bouncing of 166 checks on the House bank, a major factor in his 1992 defeat. And DeWine tried to depict McEwen as a carpetbagger, asking in television advertisements \"If Bob McEwen really cares about us, why has he spent the last twelve years living in Virginia?\" McEwen denied he has bounced any checks, repeating what he had claimed in 1992 and insisted that he had continued to reside in Ohio since he lost his re-election bid, that he had never voted in Virginia nor held a Virginia drivers license.\n\nDeWine also questioned McEwen's record on taxes, sending out mailings criticizing McEwen's vote on May 24, 1982, in the 97th Congress \"in support of a Democrat budget that raised out taxes by $233 billion.\" Two mailings focused on this issue, one featuring a photograph of Ronald Reagan which was captioned \"When President Reagan Needed Votes to Keep Taxes Low, Bob McEwen Said 'NO'\", the other asking \"Are We Still the Party of Lower Taxes?\" which noted DeWine supports Ohio Secretary of State Ken Blackwell's amendment to the Ohio Constitution to limit spending increases and had a photo of DeWine and Blackwell together.\n\nMcEwen ran television ads that lamented DeWine's \"desperate, untrue attacks\" but did not attempt to refute them, instead focusing on how he would continue to advance the idea of Ronald Reagan. To emphasize his connection to Reagan, McEwen brought Reagan aide and Attorney General Edwin Meese to Ohio to speak on how important McEwen had been in advancing Reagan's legislative agenda. McEwen also emphasized his return to Congress would mean he would enter not as a freshman but as a seventh termer, thus entitling him to better committee assignments. However, spokesmen for Ohio's Deborah Pryce, chairman of the House Republican Conference, the body which decides such matters, denied McEwen would automatically get his former seniority back.\n\nOn the issues, McEwen emphasized his pro-life stance and support for immigration reform. One mailing he sent had a picture of 9/11 hijacker Mohamed Atta's visa captioned \"Shocking: All of the 9/11 murderers had visas issued to them by the U.S. State Department\" and called for \"a military presence on the Mexican and Canadian borders.\"\n\nMcEwen had high-profile endorsements from Focus on the Family leader James Dobson, former United States Attorney General Edwin Meese, Cincinnati Bengals player Anthony Muñoz, American Family Association president Donald Wildmon, Citizens for Community Values anti-pornography crusader Phil Burress, and former New York congressman and 1996 vice presidential candidate Jack Kemp, who came to the district to campaign for him.\n\nJean Schmidt was criticized in ads paid for by the Club for Growth, the Washington, D.C.-based group associated with Grover Norquist which campaigns for lower taxes and actively works for the defeat of Republicans it considers insufficiently conservative. The Club's ads noted Schmidt had voted in favor of Governor Taft's 20 percent increase in the state sales tax and increases in the state budget. The Club compared her unfavorably to Tom Brinkman, who was hailed in the ad as \"Honest. Conservative. Leader.\" The Ohio Taxpayers Association disputed the Club's ad. Its president told \"The Cincinnati Enquirer\" that Schmidt had \"a pretty good record\" in Columbus and that the OTA's political action committee had endorsed her.\n\nIn her campaign, Schmidt ran on a conservative platform. In one mailing to voters, she promised to \"reduce our taxes\", \"keep our nation safe\", advocated \"a responsible energy policy\", and for \"promoting family values.\" The tag line on the mailer was \"continuing a tradition of character and leadership.\"\n\nSchmidt's campaign literature noted her pro-life voting record, her opposition to gay marriage, her high ratings from the National Rifle Association, and that she \"opposes an activist court system that acts against our conservative values.\" Her literature also featured her endorsement by Phil Fulton, a pastor who fought the court ordered removal of tablets containing the Ten Commandments from the grounds of schools in Adams County.\n\n\nThe Democratic primary attracted little attention. The obvious candidate was Charles W. Sanders, who won the nomination in the past four primaries but never got more than 28% of the vote against Portman in the general election. But Sanders, the only black candidate in either primary, had been recalled as Mayor of Waynesville when he charged the village police with racial profiling. He also faced complaints from his constituents that he spent too much time on his Congressional campaigns and meeting high Democratic officials such as Bill Clinton rather than attending to local issues. Because of redistricting, Sanders no longer lived in the Second District and had not in his last two runs against Portman.\n\nVictoria Wells Wulsin, a doctor from Indian Hill, was the head of a charity, SOTENI International, that was funding an AIDS prevention campaign in Kenya. Her platform was not one that would win many fans in the conservative Second District: pro-choice, pro-gay rights, opposing the Iraq War, and calling for the repeal of the tax cuts that George W. Bush had advocated and Congress had passed.\n\nJeff Sinnard, a civil engineer who proudly noted he was a \"stay-at-home dad\", was the most conservative Democrat in the field, quoting the Bible on his web-site and expressing his opposition to gay marriage and abortion: \"I endorse a reverence for human life and dignity from conception to natural death.\"\n\nMany party leaders expressed their gratitude for Sanders for his past service but backed Paul Hackett, an attorney from Indian Hill. Hackett had organized the recall of a councilman in Milford in 1995 and was elected to the council in his place, serving three years. He had also just returned from a tour of duty in Iraq, having been on active duty in the Marines in the 2003 invasion of Iraq. The Democratic parties in Pike, Clermont and Hamilton counties all endorsed Hackett. Sanders said that he was not concerned that party leaders were backing Hackett, telling \"The Cincinnati Enquirer\" \"People out there know me. I may not have the money or the organization, but no one in this race will work harder.\"\n\nIn his bid for Congress, Hackett was endorsed by the county Democratic parties in four of the seven counties in the district, those in Brown, Clermont, Hamilton and Pike counties. Party leaders chose to support him rather than Charles W. Sanders, the only black candidate in either primary and the Democratic nominee in 1998, 2000, 2002 and 2004. Timothy Burke, chairman of the party in Hamilton County, said \"The blunt reality is that Charles Sanders can't win the 2nd District seat.\" David Altman, a Cincinnati attorney who was on the party central committee, was also skeptical of Sanders, telling \"The Cincinnati Post\" \"I don't think he has a snowball's chances of winning.\"\n\nMany were angered by the endorsement. Todd Portune, the first Democrat elected to the Hamilton County Commission in decades, told \"The Post\" \"That's not the Democratic Party I'm a part of,\" saying the party should remain neutral. Victoria Wells Wulsin, a doctor from Indian Hill who ran a charity helping AIDS patients in Africa, also sought the nomination; the Hamilton County endorsement dismayed her. \"It smacks of weapons of mass destruction,\" she told \"The Post\".\n\nOther candidates running were Jeff Sinnard, a civil engineer from Anderson Township, and the most conservative Democrat; James John Parker, a hospital administrator from Pike County; and Arthur Stanley Katz, a lawyer originally from New York City who had retired to Mason, who ran as a write-in candidate.\n\nHackett was also endorsed by labor unions: the United Auto Workers, the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers and the Greater Cincinnati Building and Construction Trades Council.\n\nThe \"Dayton Daily News\" endorsed Hackett in the Democratic primary, calling him an \"articulate, down-to-earth exponent of moderate Democratic views.\" \"The Cincinnati Enquirer\" also endorsed Hackett in the primary. The newspaper editorialized \"he is not an ideologue, but someone willing to listen to different points of view and to act on the basis of what he believes will best serve his constituents.\" It also called attention to his leading a recall against members of the Milford city council and \"his ability to take charge of a situation, whether it is a dysfunctional local government in Ohio, or setting up the basics of a civil government in a city in Iraq.\"\n\nHackett told \"The Cincinnati Enquirer\" that the Iraq War has not been worth the price. \"We need to develop an exit strategy and execute it. That strategy must commit 100% of our efforts to training the 140,000 Iraqi soldiers to do the jobs that the United States is doing now. We cannot again falsely declare victory.\" Hackett also told \"The Enquirer\" he was the best candidate because of his service in Iraq.\n\nHackett won the Democratic nomination with over half the vote in unofficial results. A total of 13,927 ballots were cast representing 3.05% of the 456,795 registered voters in the district and 23.4% of the 59,538 ballots cast in both primaries.\n\nPaul Hackett, the Democratic nominee for Congress faced Schmidt in the August 2, 2005, special election. Hackett was described by \"The New York Times\" as six foot four and \"garrulous, profane, and quick with a barked retort or a mischievous joke\". Hackett had organized the recall of a councilman in Milford in 1995 and was elected to the council in his place, serving three years. He had also just returned from a tour of duty in Iraq and played up his military service in the campaign.\n\nJohn Green, a political science professor at the University of Akron told \"USA Today\" \"It's a real steep uphill climb for Hackett. It is such a Republican district.\" Jane S. Anderson, an adjunct professor of political science at the University of Cincinnati who has unsuccessfully run for the Cincinnati city council and the Ohio House as a Democrat, told the Associated Press\n\nMartin Gottlieb of the \"Dayton Daily News\" wrote a Republican landslide in the district was \"a self-fulfilling prophecy\":\n\nHackett attracted national attention to what had always been considered a safe Republican district. \"The New York Times\" ran a front-page story on him and articles appeared in \"USA Today\" and \"The Washington Post\". \"USA Today\" wrote \"if Democrats could design a dream candidate to capitalize on national distress about the war in Iraq, he would look a lot like the tall, telegenic Marine Reserve major who finished a seven-month tour of Iraq in March.\"\n\nThe National Republican Congressional Committee, the official Republican Party body that helps candidates for the United States House of Representatives, announced on July 28 it was spending $265,000 for television ads in the Cincinnati market, covering the western part of the district, and $250,000 for ads in the Huntington, West Virginia, market, covering the eastern half. Carl Forti told \"The Cincinnati Enquirer\" \"we decided to bury him\" after Hackett told \"USA Today\", in a story published that morning, \"I don't like the son-of-a-bitch that lives in the White House but I'd put my life on the line for him.\" Forti said the NRCC had \"no concern that she will lose. She will not lose.\"\n\nThe NRCC ran commercials noting Hackett had voted for tax increases while on the Milford council and quoting his statement on his website that he would be \"happy\" to pay higher taxes. The NRCC was silent about Schmidt's own votes to raise taxes, but the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, the NRCC's counterpart, was not. The DCCC responded with commercials noting that Schmidt had voted to raise the sales tax by 20% and the excise tax on gasoline by 30% when she was in the legislature. A mailing to voters by the DCCC reiterated these statements under the headline \"Who Voted for the Taft Sales Tax Increase—the Largest in Ohio History?\" and asked \"can we trust Jean Schmidt to protect middle-class families in Washington?\"\n\nAfter her primary win, Schmidt flew to Washington, D.C., to attend fundraisers and have a campaign commercial shot featuring her with George W. Bush. Having far more money than her opponent, she was able to afford a television campaign and distributed many large campaign signs throughout the district. However, her financial edge diminished as of late July.\n\nHackett's limited budget had meant his campaign was limited to word of mouth, one-on-one personal campaigning, and yard signs, of which there were many, despite the strong Republican tilt of the district. One tactic to ensure his name was seen was Hackett's campaign affixing signs to all of the overpasses of I-71 in eastern Hamilton County.\n\nHowever, with the help of Democrats from across the nation, Hackett raised several hundred thousand dollars in the closing weeks of the campaign. One main reason Democrats have decided to rally around Hackett was that, had he won, he would have been the first veteran of the 2003 invasion of Iraq to serve in Congress. Late in the campaign Schmidt claimed Mark Kirk, Republican Congressman from Illinois was the first Congressman to serve in Iraq, but Kirk said he had never actually been on tour in Iraq.\n\nSchmidt won the endorsement of the National Rifle Association, which frustrated her opponent, a long-time NRA member. She also won the endorsements of the International Association of Fire Fighters, the National Federation of Independent Businesses, the National Homebuilders Association, the Ohio Taxpayers Association, the Ohio Small Business PAC, and the Ohio Farm Bureau.\n\nSchmidt also won the endorsements of the Southern Ohio Board of Realtors and the Fraternal Order of Police Queen City Lodge #69.\n\nThe Coalition Opposed to Additional Spending and Taxes , a Cincinnati-based group founded by Tom Brinkman (who lost the GOP primary to Schmidt), began running ads in the last week of July urging voters to skip the election. COAST's president, Jim Urling, told \"The Cincinnati Enquirer\" that this might help elect Hackett, but \"we think it will be easier to remove a Democrat next year than an incumbent Republican posing as a conservative.\"\n\nFor the general election, the Democratic \"Dayton Daily News\" endorsed Hackett. The \"Daily News\" said Schmidt's attacks on Senators Mike DeWine and George Voinovich–Schmidt had asked \"what kind of men do we have in Washington representing us right now? One refuses to back the president and the other is crying on national television\"–were \"remarkably classless\" and \"seemed to be saying that voters who like legislators who exercise occasional independence from their party should not vote for her.\" \"The Cincinnati Post\" also endorsed Hackett. It noted Schmidt is the latest in a line of \"Republican patricians\" and \"likely to be a dependable vote for the Bush administration.\"\n\n\"The Cincinnati Enquirer\", a Republican paper, wrote Hackett \"is an attractive candidate with many qualities to admire\" but endorsed Schmidt. The \"Enquirer\" conceded Schmidt \"has a troubling tendency to offer superficial answers on issues she may not have carefully studied. Some of her comments can lack tact, and she relies too often on anecdotal evidence to prove a point,\" but endorsed her:\n\nControversy arose over whether Schmidt had failed to list gifts received when she was in the Ohio General Assembly on her financial disclosure statements. Another controversy was her ties to Tom Noe, a major player in the Coingate scandal. Schmidt initially denied ever meeting Noe, but Hackett produced minutes of a 2002 Ohio Board of Regents meeting attended by Schmidt. Noe was a member of the board at the time.\n\nThe election was given major national attention by the television networks and other observers despite its restricted locality. Throughout the night, as returns came in, political watchers and bloggers zeroed in on the election as an indicator of American political opinion shifts.\n\nMany predictions were made everywhere, but as this district had always been a Republican stronghold, most projected a Schmidt win, even though polling was showing the race was getting tight.\n\nFollowing the election, many Democrats hailed the election as showing the weakness of Ohio's Republican party, which has been in control of Ohio state government for a decade, and public unhappiness with President Bush's policies. Hamilton County Democratic chairman Timothy Burke was delighted. \"Paul was very critical of this president in a district that Bush carried easily last November, yet she barely hung on to win. There's a clear signal in that,\" he told \"The Cincinnati Post\" on election night. The Clermont County Democratic chairman, Dave Lane, told the \"Dayton Daily News\" \"Here we are in the reddest of red districts and it was very, very close.\"\n\nThe Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee claimed in a press release Hackett's strong showing meant trouble for Mike Dewine's reelection campaign in 2006, especially since his son Pat had lost the Republican primary for the seat.\n\nOhio Republican Party political director Jason Mauk said: \"\"\"To the extent that voters in that district were sending a message to the Republican Party at the state or national level, we have heard that message and we will continue to listen to their concerns.\"\"\n\nPeter W. Bronson, a conservative columnist for \"The Cincinnati Enquirer\", wrote \"Hackett's surprising finish was less a repudiation of Bush than a repudiation of Ohio Governor Bob Taft, whose name is now officially radioactive poison.\" Bronson admitted Hackett \"ran a strong campaign\" but said he did so well only because of \"the ugly primary\" on the Republican side, fears that Schmidt was \"another Taft RINO\" (i.e. \"Republican in name only\") and apathy by Republican voters, not dissatisfaction with Bush or Republicans in general.\n\nJohn Nichols of the \"Madison Capital Times\" in Wisconsin saw it differently. \"The district had been so radically gerrymandered by Republican governors and legislators that it was all-but-unimaginable that a Democrat could ever be competitive there\" and that Hackett, \"a smart telegenic Iraq War veteran\", had been \"swiftboated\" in the final days of the campaign by \"Republican operatives and right-wing talk radio hosts\".\n\nAs a measure, perhaps, of both Schmidt's unpopularity, and a growing anti-Republican trend in Ohio due to the unpopularity of Bush and Ohio Governor Bob Taft, Schmidt defeated Victoria Wells Wulsin, the second-place finished in the 2005 Democratic primary, by an even smaller margin than that by which she had defeated Hackett in 2005. In addition, Democrats swept the statewide races for US Senate, governor and lieutenant governor, attorney general, state treasurer and state auditor, while winning the seat of former Republican congressman Bob Ney in Ohio's 18th District. Republicans did manage to win closely contested races in Ohio's 1st, 2nd and 15th Districts.\n\nThe DSCC also claimed that \"If Ohio is a bellwether state for next year's midterm elections, things don't look too good for the Republicans.\" Republicans said the election meant nothing of the sort. \"There is no correlation between what happens in a special election, where turnout is very low and you have circumstances that just aren't comparable to an election that happens on an Election Day in an election year,\" Brian Nick of the National Republican Senatorial Committee told \"The Cincinnati Post\".\n\n\"The Columbus Dispatch\" referred to \"the trauma of barely winning a Congressional district long dominated by Republicans\" and quoted an anonymous source in the Republican party claiming \"there is not a tougher environment in the country than Ohio right now. There is kind of a meltdown happening.\" Amy Walter of the \"Cook Political Report\" told the \"Dispatch\" \"Ohio becomes the microcosm for the debate Democrats are trying to have nationally\" and Democrats would argue in future campaigns \"'See what happens when one party rules too long, see what happens with corruption and insider influence.'\" Her boss, Charlie Cook, told \"The Los Angeles Times\" Hackett's \"rubber stamp\" charge had resonated with Ohio voters.\n\nMark Steyn, a conservative Canadian columnist, wrote in the \"Irish Times\" \"Paul Hackett was like a fast-forward version of the John Kerry campaign\" who \"artfully neglected to mention the candidate was a Democrat.\" Steyn claimed that Democratic efforts to present Hackett's run as a success for the party were absurd.\n\nFormer House Speaker Newt Gingrich warned Republicans that the election was a warning sign for the 2006 midterms and that while they should not yet panic, they should \"think\" before it was too late. \n\nUltimately the Democrats would make significant gains in the 2006 midterm elections, gaining 30 seats in the U.S. House and six in the Senate, and gaining control of both chambers.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2009840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2009840", "title": "Gregory Cochran", "text": "Gregory Cochran\n\nGregory M. Cochran (born 1953) is an American anthropologist and author who argues that cultural innovation resulted in new and constantly shifting selection pressures for genetic change, thereby accelerating human evolution and divergence between human races. From 2004 to 2015, he was a research associate at the anthropology department at the University of Utah. He is co-author of the book \"The 10,000 Year Explosion\".\n\nIn opposition to what he sees as the conventional wisdom that civilization has been a static environment which imposed stabilizing selection on humans, Cochran, along with like-minded anthropologists such as John D. Hawks, contends that haplotype and other data indicate the selection of genes has been strongest since the advent of farming and civilization.\n\nCochran and co-authors Jason Hardy and Henry Harpending suggest that the high average IQ of Ashkenazi Jews may be attributed to natural selection for intelligence during the Middle Ages and a low rate of genetic inflow. Cochran and his colleagues hypothesize that the occupational profile of the Jewish community in medieval Europe had resulted in selection pressure for mutations that increase intelligence, but can also result in hereditary neurological disorders.\n\nCochran has claimed that homosexuality can be considered a disease because it generally reduces or eliminates reproductive output, and he has speculated that homosexuality might be caused by infection by an unknown virus. However, he does not suggest that the infectious agent that causes homosexuality is spread by homosexuals. Cochran's hypothesis is based on the argument that homosexuality is unlikely to be genetic because it does not follow simple Mendelian inheritance patterns and because natural selection should have largely eliminated genes that cause homosexuality. Cochran has admitted that there is no positive evidence for the gay germ hypothesis, and according to mainstream biology, sexual orientation likely results from complex interplay of genetic, hormonal, and environmental influences.\n\n"}
{"id": "2009841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2009841", "title": "Soul Shine Magazine", "text": "Soul Shine Magazine\n\nSoul Shine Magazine is a Canadian online music magazine covering independent and mainstream artists from a variety of genres and backgrounds.\n\n\"Soul Shine Magazine\" was founded in 2002. The magazine is based in Toronto, Ontario.\nLindsay and Paul Whitfield are the magazine's creative team, providing coverage of independent and mainstream artists, daily music news, interviews, gig and album reviews, gig listings, games, contests, and \"Soul Shine\"s indie radio.\n\n"}
{"id": "2009848", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2009848", "title": "Cannery Row (film)", "text": "Cannery Row (film)\n\nCannery Row is a 1982 American comedy-drama film directed by David S. Ward, starring Nick Nolte and Debra Winger. The movie is adapted from John Steinbeck's novels \"Cannery Row\" (1945) and \"Sweet Thursday\" (1954).\n\nThe story is about the skid row denizens of Monterey, California, during World War II. As declining fish stocks are shutting down a previously rich fishery and the dependent canning industry, bums and prostitutes lead colorful and adventurous lives in a balmy seaside setting.\n\nDoc, a self-employed marine biologist, lives in a dockside warehouse and researches octopi. Suzy DeSoto, a girl from the local bordello, is working there only out of necessity.\n\nA collection of linked vignettes describes life on Cannery Row. It is depicted as an impoverished area inhabited by a motley band of people who have experienced failures, but somehow have found their niche and a community of strangely kindred souls.\n\nDoc and Suzy don’t quite fit in, but are accepted. Mac and the boys gather frogs and sell them to give a surprise party for Doc, which turns into a brawl and breaks the tank housing Doc's octopus collection. To make amends, they buy Doc a present of a microscope but mistakenly get him a telescope, instead.\n\nA deeper mystery revolves around why Doc stays in Cannery Row. Suzy discovers that Doc was once a professional baseball pitcher but quit.\n\nAnother character, the Seer, spends his days playing his horn. He depends on the gifts that mysteriously appear, such as groceries. Suzy eventually learns that the Seer is a former baseball player whom Doc injured with a pitch to the head, and now Doc takes care of him. Doc and Suzy ultimately find love.\n\n\nRaquel Welch was cast as Suzy but was fired after the first few days of production and replaced by an actress 15 years her junior. Welch sued the filmmakers and won a reported settlement of more than $10 million in court.\n\nIn his two-and-a-half star review, film critic Roger Ebert wrote of the film: \"The movie is almost always good to look at, thanks to Richard MacDonald's sets (he linked together two giant sound stages) and Sven Nykvist's photography. And Nolte and Winger are almost able to make their relationship work, if only it didn't seem scripted out of old country songs and lonely hearts columns. It's tough to pull off a movie like this, in the semi-cynical 1980s (it would have been impossible in the truly cynical seventies). I guess we no longer believe in the essential heroism of the little guy, and in the proposition that anyone can succeed with a little luck.\"\n\nMGM head of production David Begelman later said he should not have greenlit the film, saying it \"was beyond the reach of the filmmaker to realise the wonderful, wonderful values he had in a brilliant script.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2009856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2009856", "title": "Mike Milbury", "text": "Mike Milbury\n\nMichael Milbury (born June 17, 1952) is an American former professional ice hockey player currently working as an analyst for the \"NHL on NBC\". He played for twelve seasons in the National Hockey League (NHL), all for the Boston Bruins. He later served as assistant general manager under Harry Sinden and head coach for Boston, as well as general manager and head coach for the New York Islanders.\n\nMilbury was a three-year letterman at Colgate University from 1972 to 1974. A defenseman who wore uniform number 7, he was the team's co-leader in assists with 19 in his junior year. As senior captain, he had his best season with the Red Raiders with 30 points (4 goals, 26 assists). He also led the squad in penalty minutes in both campaigns with 68 in 1973 and 85 in 1974. His totals in 76 games played were 6 goals, 55 assists, 61 points and 203 penalty minutes.\n\nImmediately after the conclusion of his college hockey career, Milbury played in five games with the Boston Braves, the Bruins' top farm team, in 1974. He signed with the Bruins as a free agent on November 5, 1974, and spent the next two campaigns with the Rochester Americans, the team's new American Hockey League (AHL) affiliate. In both seasons he led the club in penalty minutes with 246 in 1975 and 199 in 1976, finishing fourth and third respectively in the AHL.\n\nHe was promoted to the Bruins late in the 1975–76 season, playing in eleven of twelve Stanley Cup playoff matches. Prior to the following NHL campaign, he was a member of the United States team at the inaugural 1976 Canada Cup, getting a goal and three assists in five contests.\n\nIn his first three full years with the Bruins, his heavily aggressive style of play was a perfect fit for the overachieving team coached by Don Cherry and featuring similar tough players such as Terry O'Reilly, John Wensink and Stan Jonathan. Milbury helped his team reach consecutive Stanley Cup Finals in 1977 and 1978, with Boston losing both times to the Montreal Canadiens in four and six games respectively.\n\nIn his twelve seasons as a defenseman for the Bruins, he appeared in the postseason eleven times. He accumulated more than 200 penalty minutes in 1981 (222) and 1983 (216) and surpassed 100 six other times. He also served as the club's representative with the NHL Players' Association and was outspoken on several controversial issues, notably the role of Alan Eagleson.\n\nMilbury became head coach of the Boston Bruins in the 1989–90 season, leading the team to the Presidents' Trophy and an appearance in the Stanley Cup Finals. He was named Executive of the Year by the Sporting News.\n\nHe was the head coach of the Wales Conference team at the 1991 All-Star Game, where he generated some controversy by including enforcer Chris Nilan and checker Brian Skrudland ahead of players such as Kirk Muller and Guy Lafleur. However, Nilan and Skrudland both missed the game due to injury. As a result of Milbury's controversial roster picks, the league's board of governors changed their policy so that future teams would be chosen by committee.\n\nOn March 30, 1994, Boston College announced that Mike Milbury would take over as the head coach of the hockey team, replacing Steve Cedorchuk. However, Milbury abruptly left the job at Boston College before coaching a game, citing \"philosophical differences\" with the school's athletics department in a press conference held on June 2, 1994. BC eventually hired legendary coach Jerry York, then the head coach at Bowling Green University, to replace Milbury, while Milbury took work as a television analyst.\n\nMilbury was hired as the Islanders' coach in 1995 and within three months became the general manager as well, but he turned the coaching duties over to Rick Bowness in January 1997. During several of the years that Milbury served as Islanders GM, the team's ownership mandated that he operate the team on an austere budget. In 1999, he was forced to trade star scorer Žigmund Pálffy because team owners no longer wanted to pay his multimillion-dollar contract.\n\nHowever, Milbury has also been criticized for the many seemingly poor decisions he made in which payroll or orders from upper management were not factors. Many young players and prospects that Milbury traded away went on to have distinguished careers, often eclipsing those of the players he received in return. He traded away defensemen Zdeno Chara, Wade Redden, Bryan Berard, Eric Brewer, Darius Kasparaitis, and Bryan McCabe; goaltenders Roberto Luongo and Tommy Salo; as well as forwards Olli Jokinen, Todd Bertuzzi, Tim Connolly, Jean-Pierre Dumont, and Raffi Torres. Milbury has also come under fire for his poor draft-day decisions such as choosing Rick DiPietro first overall in 2000 over Dany Heatley and Marian Gaborik, as well as his decision to include the 2001 second overall draft pick (Jason Spezza) as part of the Alexei Yashin trade.\n\nIn June 2006, Milbury stepped down as Islanders GM to accept a position as Senior Vice President of Charles Wang's sports holdings. In an appearance on Mike and the Mad Dog, Wang did not challenge a suggestion from the hosts that he \"fired\" Milbury. Milbury resigned from his Senior VP job in May 2007. He said that he missed making hockey-related decisions and would be open to a hockey operations job in another organization.\n\nAmerican networks NESN, NBC and Versus, plus Canada's TSN, hired Milbury as a studio analyst for the 2007–08 season. He also serves as the studio analyst for the Boston Bruins, and for the past two years, he has participated in the broadcast of the Winter Classic. In July 2008, Milbury signed a two-year contract with the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation's \"Hockey Night in Canada\". Voted worst commentator on “NHL on NBC”, receiving over 40% of the vote. Most cited his blatant bias towards his former team, the Boston Bruins. He also served as color commentator for “NHL on NBC” telecasts involving Boston Bruins with Kenny Albert and Emmy-Award winning \"Inside-the-Glass\" reporter Pierre McGuire.\n\nMilbury gained notoriety for what occurred following a 4–3 Bruins victory over the New York Rangers at Madison Square Garden on December 23, 1979. During an on-ice fray between the players from both sides, a Rangers fan cut Stan Jonathan's face with a rolled-up program and grabbed his hockey stick. Terry O'Reilly climbed over the Plexiglas and went into the stands in pursuit of the offender, followed by Peter McNab and other teammates. Milbury, who had actually reached the visitors locker room when his teammates started going into the stands, raced back to join his colleagues in the brawl. He caught the unruly spectator, removed one of his shoes and, while holding the heel end, slapped him hard once with the sole side before being restrained. Subsequently, NHL president John Ziegler suspended O'Reilly for eight games and McNab and Milbury for six, with each being fined $500. This incident also resulted in the installation of higher glass panels enclosing rinks in hockey arenas.\n\n"}
{"id": "2009858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2009858", "title": "Bullring", "text": "Bullring\n\nA bullring is an arena where bullfighting is performed. Bullrings are often associated with the Iberian Peninsula, but they can also be found through Iberian America. Bullrings are often historic and culturally significant centres that bear many structural similarities to the Roman amphitheatre.\n\nThe classic bullring is an enclosed, roughly circular amphitheatre with tiered rows of stands that surround an open central space. The open space forms the arena or \"ruedo\", a field of densely packed crushed rock (\"albero\") that is the stage for the bullfight. Also on the ground level, the central arena is surrounded by a staging area where the bullfighters prepare and take refuge, called the \"callejón\" (alley). The \"callejón\" is separated from the arena by a wall or other structure, usually made of wood and roughly 140 cm high. The partition wall has doors for the entrance and exit of the bull (\"puerta de los toriles\") and human participants (\"puerta de cuadrilla\"), although the form, number, and placement of these doors will vary from one bullring to another. \nIn regular places, the wall is pushed outwards leaving splits (\"burladero\", from burlar: to evade, to dodge) that allow the bullfighters to go in the arena and to take refuge but are too narrow for the bull.\nNevertheless, on rare occasions the bull jumps the wall causing havoc in the corridor.\nThe walls also have a type of stirrup or foothold that aids in crossing over to the central arena, and sometimes stirrups on the arena side as well; these are used mostly by event staff if they need to intervene quickly in the case of an emergency. \nThe arena is surrounded by climbing rows of seats.\nThe seats are priced differently according to the position of the sun during the show, normally in the afternoon.\nThe hot \"sol\", \"sun\", is cheaper than the fresher \"sombra\", \"shade\".\n\nBullrings evolved as specialized sporting arenas hand-in-hand with the sport that demanded them. Many of the ancient Roman amphitheatres had characteristics that can be seen in the bullrings of today (in fact the ring in Nîmes, France, is a Roman artifact, though it is more elliptical than the usual plaza), and the origin of bullfighting is very closely related to certain Roman traditions; in the formative years of the sport on the Iberian Peninsula, those Roman enclosures were not commonly utilised for bullfighting events. Back when bullfighting festivals were conducted principally on horseback, the spectacle was a more public affair that took place in the city's open plaza area. It was only later, when bullfights were conducted principally by men on foot, that the public needed a structure to house them appropriately. Not only did the crowd need special seating to view the spectacle, they also needed a structure to contain the general disorder that reigned at festivals during the heyday of such legendary figures as Costillares, Pedro Romero, and Pepe-Hillo. \n\nIn these early days, the circular form was not to be taken for granted. When La Maestranza bullring in Seville was authorized for construction in 1730 specifically to house bullfights, the original plans called for a rectangular arena for the first three years, only later to be changed to a circular form that avoided the cornering of the action and put all viewers at the same approximate distance, the same reason for the elliptical form of amphitheatres. Another circular plaza was begun in Ronda in 1754, and it featured its first bullfights in 1782.\n\nIn the change from the 19th to the 20th century, the Neo-Mudéjar style became in vogue for plazas, involving decoration in visible brickwork.\n\nSince the 1990s, new construction technology allows some rings to be covered permanently or temporarily.\n\nThe primary purpose of the ring is bullfighting, but it is usually limited to some festival weeks in the year.\nIn other times, it may be used as a concert venue as in the \"Rock en el ruedo\" tour of Miguel Ríos or the live record \"Diamonds & Rust in the Bullring\", featuring a Joan Baez concert in the Bilbao plaza.\n\nBefore the diffusion of modern sports premises, bullrings were used in the Basque Country for traditional sports similar to challenges of resistance running. The public made bets on the number of laps the runner could make. No bulls were involved.\n\nAfter the battle of Badajoz (1936) of the Spanish Civil War, the Badajoz ring was used as a confinement camp for supporters of the republic and many thousands were executed there by the Nationalist forces who had just occupied the town.\n\nMost indoor bullrings, especially in Mexico and elsewhere in Latin America, in addition to being used for concerts, have also been used for indoor sports such as basketball, ice hockey, boxing and lucha libre.\n\nThe most famous bullrings in the world are Plaza de Toros de Las Ventas in Madrid (Spain), widely regarded as the most prestigious one, La Maestranza in Seville (Spain), and Plaza de Toros México in Mexico City.\nVillages round the Camargue, such as Rodilhan in the Gard, who also practise 'mise à mort' - killing the bull.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2009861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2009861", "title": "Waldorf Music", "text": "Waldorf Music\n\nWaldorf Music is a German synthesizer company. They are best known for the Microwave wavetable synthesizer and Blofeld virtual analogue synthesizer. \nWaldorf Electronics GmbH was founded in 1988 by Wolfgang Düren, who at the time was the German distributor of PPG. The Waldorf name refers to the German town Waldorf (near to the former capital of West Germany: Bonn) where the company was founded. Later, the company was headquartered in Schloss Ahrenthal.\nOn 5 February 2004, Waldorf declared insolvency at a German court. Shortly before, the company was turned into an Aktiengesellschaft called \"Waldorf Music AG\", but to no avail. \nIn Summer 2006, a new company Waldorf Music GmbH was officially established, although it is not a legal successor to the original company. Waldorf's headquarter has now moved to Remagen and is led by CEO Joachim Flor.\n\nAfter the demise of PPG in 1987, Waldorf took over the heritage of the wavetable synthesis. Based on an ASIC designed by Wolfgang Palm, the Microwave and later, the WAVE, were built. However, Palm never functioned as an employee of Waldorf. \nOver the years, Waldorf continuously adapted new technologies. While the Microwave I (released 1989) was based on ASICs and a Motorola MC68000 micro processor, Microwave II (1997) was driven by a DSP. In 2013, NAVE, a synthesizer app for iOS was released. Their Kyra (2019) is the first fully FPGA-powered synthesizer.\n\nWhile many other synth manufacturers aimed to recreate previously existing hardware in software, Waldorf went the other way and presented the RackAttack, a hardware drum synth in 2002. The synth engine had been published as a VST instrument a year before. Nevertheless, the Streichfett came up in 2014: a synth that recreated the sound of vintage string machines.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nBlofeld is still being manufactured today (2019).\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2009863", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2009863", "title": "Dumfries Burghs (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Dumfries Burghs (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nDumfries Burghs was a district of burghs constituency of the House of Commons of Great Britain from 1708 to 1801 and of the House of Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdom from 1801 until 1918. It elected one Member of Parliament (MP).\n\nThe British parliamentary constituency was created in 1708 following the Acts of Union, 1707 and replaced the former Parliament of Scotland burgh constituencies of Dumfries, Annan, Kirkcudbright Burgh, Lochmaben and Sanquhar.\n\nThe constituency comprised the Dumfriesshire burghs of Dumfries, Annan, Lochmaben and Sanquhar and the Kirkcudbrightshire burgh of Kirkcudbright.\n\nThe constituency elected one Member of Parliament (MP) by the first past the post system until the seat was abolished for the 1918 general election.\n\nReid is appointed Solicitor General for Scotland, requiring a by-election.\n\nGeneral Election 1914/15:\n\nAnother General Election was required to take place before the end of 1915. The political parties had been making preparations for an election to take place and by the July 1914, the following candidates had been selected; \n"}
{"id": "2009867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2009867", "title": "Neal Broten", "text": "Neal Broten\n\nNeal LaMoy Broten (born November 29, 1959) is an American former professional ice hockey player. A member of the 1980 US Olympic hockey team that won the gold medal at Lake Placid in 1980, Broten was inducted into the US Hockey Hall of Fame in 2000 having appeared in 1,099 National Hockey League (NHL) regular season games from 1981 to 1997 with the Minnesota North Stars, Dallas Stars, New Jersey Devils and Los Angeles Kings. He is the older brother of Aaron and Paul Broten.\n\nBroten, like his two brothers, attended Roseau High School, a perennial hockey contender in the state of Minnesota, where he appeared with the Rams in the state tournament in three consecutive years (1977–79). His 1978 achievement of four assists in a single period still stands as a Roseau Rams' record today.\n\nAs a college freshman playing for Herb Brooks and the Minnesota Golden Gophers, Broten scored 21 goals, had 50 assists, and was named WCHA Rookie of the Year His final goal of that season was the game winner that clinched the 1979 NCAA Championship in which the Gophers defeated the University of North Dakota by a score of 4–3. Broten would later win the inaugural Hobey Baker award in 1981, which honors the US collegiate hockey's best player.\n\nBroten is one of a few players to have played on teams that won the NCAA hockey championship (University of Minnesota in 1979), the Olympic Gold Medal (Team USA, 1980), and the Stanley Cup (New Jersey Devils, 1995). He is the only player to have won the Hobey Baker, the Olympic Gold Medal and the Stanley Cup. In addition Neal Broten and Ed Belfour are the only players to have won an NCAA championship, an Olympic Gold medal and the Stanley Cup.\n\nBroten was member of the United States Olympic team that won a gold medal at the 1980 Winter Olympics in an event known as the \"Miracle on Ice\". He was also a member of Team USA at the 1981 Canada Cup and 1984 Canada Cup tournaments as well as the 1990 Ice Hockey World Championship.\n\nBroten played 17 seasons in the National Hockey League. Highlights of his long NHL career include the first American to score more than 100 points in a single season (1985–86) as well as two NHL All-Star Game appearances in 1983 and 1986.\n\nHe won a Stanley Cup with the New Jersey Devils in 1995, scoring the game-winning goal in Game Four against the Detroit Red Wings to clinch the title. Coincidentally, his 1980 Soviet counterpart Viacheslav Fetisov was on the ice for the heavily favored Red Wings when Broten scored the clincher. Broten became the first American to score a Cup-winning goal. Fellow Americans Brett Hull, Mike Rupp, Patrick Kane, and Alec Martinez have done it since.\n\nBroten served as the captain of the Dallas Stars for two months during the lockout-shortened 1994–95 NHL season after the trade of previous captain Mark Tinordi, serving as captain for a month prior to his trade to New Jersey. He had previously served as an alternate captain on a number of occasions.\n\nDuring the 1982–83 NHL season, Broten participated in a rare fight against Wayne Gretzky. It was one of only a handful of fights during both his and Gretzky's careers. Broten later recalled how he and his teammates would later have to deal with Gretzky's enforcers, Marty McSorley and Dave Semenko.\n\nBroten initially refused to play for the North Stars in 1991–92 due to a contract dispute, instead playing in Germany for BSC Preussen Berlin where he filled in for his former U.S. Olympic teammate Dave Silk who was on temporary leave in the U.S. with his pregnant wife.\n\nBroten briefly came out of retirement in 1999 to once again play for the US national team in the 1999 Ice Hockey World Championship qualifying tournament (the U.S. team featuring several NHL players had surprisingly finished among the bottom four in the previous 1998 world championship tournament) when no active NHL players were available. He scored six points in three games as the U.S. won the tournament, before retiring from hockey for good. He lives in River Falls, WI. In 2014, Broten's nephew, Shane Gersich, was drafted by the Washington Capitals.\n\nBroten is not featured in the 1981 TV movie about the 1980 U.S. hockey team called \"Miracle on Ice\" except in archival footage of the gold medal ceremony.\n\nIn the 2004 Disney movie \"Miracle\", he is portrayed by Trevor Alto. Alto played college hockey for the University of British Columbia Thunderbirds.\n\nIn the 2008 documentary, \"Pond Hockey\", he reflects on his youth growing up playing hockey in his hometown of Roseau, MN.\n\n\nTransactions\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2009882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2009882", "title": "Random walk hypothesis", "text": "Random walk hypothesis\n\nThe random walk hypothesis is a financial theory stating that stock market prices evolve according to a random walk (so price changes are random) and thus cannot be predicted. It is consistent with the efficient-market hypothesis.\n\nThe concept can be traced to French broker Jules Regnault who published a book in 1863, and then to French mathematician Louis Bachelier whose Ph.D. dissertation titled \"The Theory of Speculation\" (1900) included some remarkable insights and commentary. The same ideas were later developed by MIT Sloan School of Management professor Paul Cootner in his 1964 book \"The Random Character of Stock Market Prices\". The term was popularized by the 1973 book, \"A Random Walk Down Wall Street\", by Burton Malkiel, a Professor of Economics at Princeton University, and was used earlier in Eugene Fama's 1965 article \"Random Walks In Stock Market Prices\", which was a less technical version of his Ph.D. thesis. The theory that stock prices move randomly was earlier proposed by Maurice Kendall in his 1953 paper, \"The Analysis of Economic Time Series, Part 1: Prices\".\n\nBurton G. Malkiel, an economics professor at Princeton University and writer of \"A Random Walk Down Wall Street\", performed a test where his students were given a hypothetical stock that was initially worth fifty dollars. The closing stock price for each day was determined by a coin flip. If the result was heads, the price would close a half point higher, but if the result was tails, it would close a half point lower. Thus, each time, the price had a fifty-fifty chance of closing higher or lower than the previous day. Cycles or trends were determined from the tests. Malkiel then took the results in a chart and graph form to a chartist, a person who “seeks to predict future movements by seeking to interpret past patterns on the assumption that ‘history tends to repeat itself’”. The chartist told Malkiel that they needed to immediately buy the stock. Since the coin flips were random, the fictitious stock had no overall trend. Malkiel argued that this indicates that the market and stocks could be just as random as flipping a coin.\n\nThere are other economists, professors, and investors who believe that the market is predictable to some degree. These people believe that prices may move in trends and that the study of past prices can be used to forecast future price direction . There have been some economic studies that support this view, and a book has been written by two professors of economics that tries to prove the random walk hypothesis wrong.\n\nMartin Weber, a leading researcher in behavioral finance, has performed many tests and studies on finding trends in the stock market. In one of his key studies, he observed the stock market for ten years. Throughout that period, he looked at the market prices for noticeable trends and found that stocks with high price increases in the first five years tended to become under-performers in the following five years. Weber and other believers in the non-random walk hypothesis cite this as a key contributor and contradictor to the random walk hypothesis.\n\nAnother test that Weber ran that contradicts the random walk hypothesis, was finding stocks that have had an upward revision for earnings outperform other stocks in the following six months. With this knowledge, investors can have an edge in predicting what stocks to pull out of the market and which stocks — the stocks with the upward revision — to leave in. Martin Weber’s studies detract from the random walk hypothesis, because according to Weber, there are trends and other tips to predicting the stock market.\n\nProfessors Andrew W. Lo and Archie Craig MacKinlay, professors of Finance at the MIT Sloan School of Management and the University of Pennsylvania, respectively, have also presented evidence that they believe shows the random walk hypothesis to be wrong. Their book \"A Non-Random Walk Down Wall Street\", presents a number of tests and studies that reportedly support the view that there are trends in the stock market and that the stock market is somewhat predictable.\n\nOne element of their evidence is the simple volatility-based specification test, which has a null hypothesis that states:\n\nwhere\n\nTo refute the hypothesis, they compare the variance of formula_9 for different formula_10 and compare the results to what would be expected for uncorrelated formula_5. Lo and MacKinlay have authored a paper, the adaptive market hypothesis, which puts forth another way of looking at the predictability of price changes.\n\nA more rigorous treatment of testing the random walk null hypothesis for United States stock prices using one-sided optimal statistical tests is due to Alok Bhargava. It is important to separately test the random walk null hypothesis against stationary and explosive alternatives using two one-sided tests. In contrast, two-sided asymptotic tests such as those employed by Lo and MacKinlay can lead to misleading conclusions because the process could be stationary or explosive under the alternative hypothesis. The random walk null hypothesis for quarterly stock prices was rejected in favor of stationary alternatives using several test statistics appropriate for longitudinal (\"panel\") data.\n\nPeter Lynch, a mutual fund manager at Fidelity Investments, has argued that the random walk hypothesis is contradictory to the efficient market hypothesis -- though both concepts are widely taught in business schools without seeming awareness of a contradiction. If asset prices are rational and based on all available data as the efficient market hypothesis proposes, then fluctuations in asset price are \"not\" random. But if the random walk hypothesis is valid then asset prices are not rational as the efficient market hypothesis proposes.\n"}
{"id": "2009888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2009888", "title": "Dismal Euphony", "text": "Dismal Euphony\n\nDismal Euphony was a melodic black metal band from Norway that mixed styles including gothic metal, black metal and classical music.\n\nThe history of Dismal Euphony began in 1992 in Stavanger, Norway by bassist Ole K. Helgesen and drummer Kristoffer Vold Austrheim under the name The Headless Children, a cover band of Slayer and Kreator. A year later singer Erik Borgen and guitarist Kenneth Bergsagel joined the group. \n\nThey changed the name to Carnal Tomb, then Borgen left the band and Helgesen became the singer/bassist with the female voice of Linn Achre Tveit (Keltziva). Elin Overskott joined the band as a keyboard player.\n\nThis was the first line-up of Dismal Euphony, officially formed in 1995. In the same year, the group composed the demo \"Spellbound\". After this publication, they were signed by Napalm Records. Here they produced other albums like \"Soria Moria slott\", \"\" and the \"Lady Ablaze\" EP (which already features Anja Natasha as female singer). \n\nLater, Dismal Euphony joined Nuclear Blast and released \"All Little Devils\", with the new female singer Anja Natasha.\n\nTheir last album is \"Python Zero\". After this release the band split up.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2009889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2009889", "title": "Mary Lefkowitz", "text": "Mary Lefkowitz\n\nMary R. Lefkowitz (born April 30, 1935) is an American scholar of Classics. She is the Professor Emerita of Classical Studies at Wellesley College in Wellesley, Massachusetts, where she previously worked from 1959 to 2005. She has published ten books over the course of her career.\n\nLeftowitz studied at Wellesley College before obtaining a Ph.D. in Classical Philology from Radcliffe College in 1961. During the 1980s much of her research focused on the place of women in the Classical world. She attracted broader attention for her 1996 book \"Not Out of Africa\", a criticism of Afrocentric claims that ancient Greek civilization derived largely from that of ancient Egypt. She argued that such claims owed more to a black nationalist political agenda than historical evidence. That decade, she also entered into a publicised argument with Africana studies scholar Tony Martin. \n\nShe is the widow of Sir Hugh Lloyd-Jones, former Regius Professor Emeritus of Greek at Oxford University and served on the advisory board of the conservative advocacy group the National Association of Scholars.\n\nLefkowitz earned her B.A. from Wellesley College in 1957, \"Phi Beta Kappa\" with honors in Greek, and received her Ph.D. in Classical Philology from Radcliffe College (now part of Harvard University) in 1961. She returned to Wellesley College in 1959 as an instructor in Greek. In 1979 she was named Andrew W. Mellon Professor of the Humanities, a position she held until her retirement in 2005. Lefkowitz holds an honorary degree from Trinity College (1996), which cited her \"deep concern for intellectual integrity,\" and also from the University of Patras (1999) and from Grinnell College (2000). In 2004 she received a Radcliffe Graduate Society Medal. In 2006 she was awarded a National Humanities Medal \"for outstanding excellence in scholarship and teaching.\" In 2008 she was the recipient of a Wellesley College Alumnae Achievement Award.\n\nLefkowitz has published on subjects including mythology, women in antiquity, Pindar, and fiction in ancient biography. She came to the attention of a wider audience through her criticism of the claims of Martin Bernal in \"Black Athena: The Afroasiatic Roots of Classical Civilization\" in her book \"Not Out of Africa: How Afrocentrism Became an Excuse to Teach Myth As History.\" In \"Black Athena Revisited\" (1996), which she edited with Guy MacLean Rogers, her colleague at Wellesley College, the ideas of Martin Bernal are further scrutinized.\n\nIn 2008, Lefkowitz published \"History Lesson,\" which \"The Wall Street Journal\" described as a \"personal account of what she experienced as a result of questioning the veracity of Afrocentrism and the motives of its advocates.\" She was attacked in newsletters from the Wellesley Africana Studies Department by her colleague Tony Martin, which turned into a rancorous, personal conflict with anti-Semitic elements. Martin stated in May 1994 at Cornell University that \"Black people should interpret their own reality. . . . Jews have been in the forefront of efforts to thwart the interpretation of our own history.\" In another incident described in her book, Yosef A. A. Ben-Jochannan, the author of \"Africa: The Mother of Western Civilization,\" gave the Martin Luther King lecture at Wellesley in 1993. Lefkowitz attended this lecture with her husband, Sir Hugh Lloyd-Jones. In that lecture, Ben-Jochannan stated that Aristotle stole his philosophy from the Library of Alexandria, Egypt. During the question and answer session following the lecture, Lefkowitz asked Ben-Jochannan, \"How would that have been possible, when the library was not built until after his death?\" Ben-Jochannan replied that the dates were uncertain. Sir Hugh responded, \"Rubbish!\" Lefkowitz writes that Ben-Jochannan proceeded to tell those present that \"they could and should believe what \"black\" instructors told them\" and \"that although they might think that Jews were all 'hook-nosed and sallow faced,' there were other Jews who looked like himself.\"\n\nLefkowitz was married to Sir Hugh Lloyd-Jones, Regius Professor Emeritus of Greek at Oxford University from 1982 until his death in 2009.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2009892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2009892", "title": "RWH", "text": "RWH\n\nRWH may refer to:\n"}
{"id": "2009896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2009896", "title": "The Soviettes", "text": "The Soviettes\n\nThe Soviettes were a punk rock band from Minneapolis, Minnesota, founded in 2001. The group is composed of Annie (guitar), Sturgeon (guitar), Susy (bass guitar), and Danny (drums), all of whom share singing duties.\n\nAnnie and Susy, both natives of Fargo, North Dakota, moved to Minneapolis around 2000 where they met Bill Morrisette of Dillinger Four. He suggested that they start a band with his girlfriend, Sturgeon, and were practicing with Dillinger Four's Lane Pederson filling in on drums by 2001.\nThe name originates from when Annie was serving coffee at a previous job, a customer offered \"your band should be called The Soviettes\" instead of a tip.\nThe band recorded their first EP, \"T.C.C.P.\", the same year. Soon Annie found Danny Henry to play with them permanently.\n\nIn 2003, The Soviettes released the first LP entitled \"LP\" on Adeline Records of Oakland, California.\n\nIn 2004, the band released their second LP entitled \"LP II\", again on Adeline Records. The band was then noticed by Fat Wreck Chords in San Francisco, California and was shortly after signed with the label. The band released the song \"Paranoia! Cha-Cha-Cha\" for the compilation album \"Rock Against Bush, Vol. 1\".\n\nOn June 28, 2005, the band's third LP entitled \"LP III\" was released on Fat Wreck Chords.\n\nThe members of The Soviettes have maintained a friendship with rapper P.O.S, and are referenced in \"Crispin Glover\" from his 2005 single \"P.O.S. Is Ruining My Life\". They also gained an association with the Minnesota RollerGirls with the single \"Roller Girls\" about the organization with backing vocals from some of the girls.\n\nThey toured the United States extensively at the end of 2005 with Fat Wreck label-mates Against Me!, the Epoxies, and Smoke or Fire.\n\nAfter April 2006 the band went on hiatus indefinitely and, at the time, the members doubted the band would reform at all. Susy has since moved to Los Angeles, California.\n\n\"I don't know why we broke up,\" said Danny Henry in 2007, \"It was pretty natural. Bands are relationships, they're just more complicated because it's a four-way deal.\" \n\nSince The Soviettes' hiatus, Annie and Danny have continued playing music together as the punk rock duo The Awesome Snakes. Sturgeon now plays in The Gateway District with Carrie (who also played with Sturgeon in The Salteens), as well as Nate from Banner Pilot and Brad from Dear Landlord (both of whom also played in Rivethead). Annie also performs with the God Damn Doo Wop Band.\n\nThe band reunited in 2010 for some shows. The first was on March 18, 2010 at Eclipse Records in St. Paul, MN. Next was March 19, 2010 at the Turf Club in St. Paul, MN. Both shows were record release shows for their Rarities album, released for free on Red Sound Records.\n\nThey also played at the Soda Bar in San Diego, CA on Sept 4th, 2010 as part of \"Awesome Fest 4\".\n\nOn October 29, 2010 the band played at The Atlantic in Gainesville, FL as part of \"Fest 9\".\n\nThe band played 2 more shows in 2010, one at the Triple Rock Social Club, Minneapolis, MN on 11/12/2010 and another at Reggie's Rock Club, Chicago, IL on 11/13/2010, the latter opening for The Methadones on their final show.\n\nThe band was scheduled to participate in \"Weasel Fest\", supporting Screeching Weasel at Reggie's Rock Club, Chicago, IL on 05/29/2011 but dropped off the bill following Ben Weasel's behavior at SXSW 2011. They did play at the Triple Rock Social Club in Minneapolis on 05/27/2011.\n\nThe band also played a live show at San Francisco's Bottom of the Hill Club on August 31, 2011.\n\nCurrent members\n\nPast members\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2009899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2009899", "title": "Cicero (typography)", "text": "Cicero (typography)\n\nA cicero is a unit of measure used in typography in Italy, France and other continental European countries, first used by Pannartz and Sweynheim in 1468 for the edition of Cicero's \"Epistulae ad Familiares\". The font size thus acquired the name \"cicero\".\n\nIt is of the historical French inch, and is divided into 12 points, known in English as French points or Didot points. The unit of the cicero is similar to an English pica, although the French inch was slightly larger than the English inch. There are about 1.066 picas to a cicero; a pica is 4.23333333 mm and a cicero is 4.51165812456 mm.\n\nCicero (and the points derived from cicero) was used in the early days of typography in continental Europe. In modern times, all computers use pica (and the points derived from pica) as font size measurement – alongside millimeters in countries using the metric system – for line length and paper size measurement.\n"}
{"id": "2009905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2009905", "title": "Homer at the Bat", "text": "Homer at the Bat\n\n\"Homer at the Bat\" is the seventeenth episode of \"The Simpsons\"<nowiki>'</nowiki> third season. It originally aired on the Fox network in the United States on February 20, 1992. The episode follows the Springfield Nuclear Power Plant softball team, led by Homer, having a winning season and making the championship game. Mr. Burns makes a large bet that the team will win and brings in nine ringers from the \"big leagues\" to ensure his success.\nThe episode was written by John Swartzwelder, who is a big baseball fan himself, and directed by Jim Reardon.\n\nRoger Clemens, Wade Boggs, Ken Griffey Jr., Steve Sax, Ozzie Smith, José Canseco, Don Mattingly, Darryl Strawberry and Mike Scioscia all guest starred as themselves, playing the ringers hired by Mr. Burns. Terry Cashman sang a song over the end credits. The guest stars were recorded over several months, with differing degrees of cooperation. \n\nThe episode is often named among the show's best, and was the first to beat \"The Cosby Show\" in the ratings on its original airing. In 2014, showrunner Al Jean selected it as one of five essential episodes in the show's history.\n\nWorkers at the Springfield Nuclear Power Plant are reluctant to join the plant's softball team due to its previous unsuccessful year. When Homer shows his co-workers the Wonder Bat, a large bat he made from a fallen tree branch, his co-workers eagerly join the team. They enjoy an undefeated season and earn a spot in the championship game against the Shelbyville Nuclear Power Plant.\n\nMr. Burns makes a million dollar bet with Aristotle Amadopolis, owner of the Shelbyville plant, that his team will win. To secure victory, Burns attempts to hire major-league stars Cap Anson, Pie Traynor, Jim Creighton, Gabby Street, Nap Lajoie, Harry Hooper, Honus Wagner, Shoeless Joe Jackson and Mordecai \"Three Finger\" Brown. After Smithers informs his boss that all the players he wants are dead, Burns orders him to find living players. He hires nine Major League Baseball players — Steve Sax, Wade Boggs, Ozzie Smith, Roger Clemens, Don Mattingly, Darryl Strawberry, Ken Griffey Jr., José Canseco and Mike Scioscia — and gives them token jobs at the plant so they can play on the team, to the dismay of the plant's team. Burns hires a hypnotist to boost his team's chances of winning. Homer is distraught when Wonder Bat is destroyed by a pitch from Clemens during practice.\n\nBefore the game, eight of the nine all-star players suffer unrelated mishaps that prevent them from playing: Smith disappears in the Springfield Mystery Spot, Clemens starts behaving like a chicken due to the hypnotist's incompetence, Scioscia is hospitalized due to radiation poisoning from the plant, Mattingly is kicked off the team after misinterpreting Burns' order to shave off his sideburns, Canseco is busy rescuing a woman and her possessions from a house fire, Griffey develops gigantism after overdosing on brain and nerve tonic that Burns administered to the team, Sax is arrested by the Springfield Police when they suspect him for committing every unsolved murder in New York City, and Boggs is knocked unconscious by Barney at Moe's Tavern after an argument over whether Lord Palmerston or William Pitt the Elder was the greatest British Prime Minister. When Strawberry is the only pro able to play, Burns is forced to use his team of regular employees. Homer is benched while Strawberry plays his position.\n\nWith the score tied and bases loaded with two outs in the bottom of the ninth inning, Burns fields a right-handed hitter against a left-handed pitcher and pinch hits Homer for Strawberry. Distracted by Burns' exaggerated gesturing, Homer is hit in the head by the first pitch, knocking him out and forcing in the winning run. The team wins the title and Homer, still unconscious, is paraded as a hero.\n\n\"Homer at the Bat\" took a long time to produce. It was written by John Swartzwelder, who is a big baseball fan, but was suggested by Sam Simon, who wanted an episode filled with real Major League Baseball players. Executive producers Al Jean and Mike Reiss doubted that they would be able to get nine players, thinking they would be able to get three at best. They succeeded, and the nine players who agreed to guest star were recorded over a period of six months, whenever they were playing the Los Angeles Dodgers or California Angels. Each player recorded their part in roughly five minutes and spent the next hour writing autographs for the staff. In several cases, the writers were unable to get the player who was their first choice. Nolan Ryan, Rickey Henderson, Ryne Sandberg, and Carlton Fisk were among the players who turned down the chance to guest star.\n\nAll the players were cooperative except for José Canseco, who was intimidating. He disliked his original part and insisted it be rewritten, and the writers grudgingly made him as heroic as possible. He was originally slated to wake up in bed with Edna Krabappel and miss the game (in a parody of \"Bull Durham\"), but Canseco's then-wife, Esther Haddad, objected. He disliked his caricature, saying \"the animation looked nothing like [him]\" but said he found the acting was very easy. When asked in 2007 about his part by the \"San Jose Mercury News\" he responded, \"that was 100 years ago,\" hung up the phone and did not answer any of the paper's subsequent calls.\n\nKen Griffey, Jr. did not understand his line \"there's a party in my mouth and everyone's invited\" and got quite frustrated when he was recording it. He was directed by Mike Reiss, and his father Ken Griffey, Sr. was also present, trying to coach his son. Roger Clemens, who made his own chicken noises, was directed by Jeff Martin, as was Wade Boggs. Mike Reiss directed most of the other players. Mike Scioscia accepted his guest spot in \"half a second,\" while Ozzie Smith has said he would like to guest star again \"so [he] can get out [of the Springfield Mystery spot]\". Don Mattingly, who was forced to shave off his \"sideburns\" by Mr. Burns during the episode, would later have an actual \"haircut controversy\", while he was playing for the New York Yankees. The coaching staff forced him to cut his long hair, and was briefly dropped from the team line-up for not doing so. Many people believed the joke in the episode to be a reference to the incident, but \"Homer at the Bat\" was recorded a year before it happened. Many of the guest stars, including Terry Cashman, Wade Boggs and Darryl Strawberry all admit they are more well known because of their appearance in the episode, especially outside the United States, Cashman having \"Talkin' Softball\" requested more often than \"Talkin' Baseball\".\n\nOne of the hardest pieces of editing was the hypnotist segment, which featured several of the guest stars speaking in unison. It was difficult because the parts were recorded over a period of several months and thus it was hard to sync their voices. Rich Moore was originally intended to direct the episode, but as he did not know anything about baseball he was switched with Jim Reardon, who was a baseball fan. Moore was given the episode \"Lisa the Greek\" instead. Many of the player designs were difficult, because the animators had a hard time designing real world people during the early seasons.\n\nThe episode's title is a reference to Ernest Thayer's 1888 baseball poem \"Casey at the Bat\". The episode makes several allusions to the film \"The Natural\". Homer's secret weapon, his self-created \"Wonderbat\", is akin to Roy Hobbs's \"Wonderboy\", and both bats are eventually destroyed. The scene featuring the explosion of stadium lights as Homer circles the basepaths is also taken directly from the film. The end song \"Talkin' Softball\" is a parody of \"Talkin' Baseball\" by Terry Cashman. Jeff Martin wrote the new version of the song, but Cashman was brought in to sing it. The scenes of the Power Plant team traveling from city to city by train, overlaid with the pennant of the city they are going to, is a reference to the 1942 film \"The Pride of the Yankees\". Carl batting with a piano leg is a reference to Norm Cash of the Detroit Tigers, who once tried to bat with a table leg in a game where Nolan Ryan was extremely overpowering and threw a no-hitter. The team name on Mr. Burns' jersey, the Zephyrs, is a reference to the Twilight Zone episode \"The Mighty Casey\", which features a team called the Hoboken Zephyrs. When Don Mattingly is forced off the team for \"neglecting\" to shave off his \"sideburns\" by Mr. Burns, Mattingly privately states that he still preferred Burns to George Steinbrenner, the owner of the New York Yankees at the time. Bart and Lisa when jeering Darryl Strawberry over forcing Homer to stay on the bench proceeded to repeatedly yell his name, alluding to an infamous taunt from the 1986 World Series.\n\nDuring the previous season, Fox had put \"The Simpsons\" in a timeslot that meant it was in direct competition with \"The Cosby Show\", which won the timeslot every time. \"Homer at the Bat\" had a 15.9 rating and 23 share to win its timeslot while \"The Cosby Show\" had a 13.2 rating and 20 share. This was the first time a new \"Simpsons\" episode beat a new \"Cosby Show\" episode. Former executive producer Sam Simon and current showrunner Al Jean named it as their favorite episode. Regular cast members Harry Shearer and Julie Kavner disliked the episode because of its focus on the guest stars and its surreal tone. They were particularly annoyed by the Mattingly sideburns joke.\n\nWarren Martyn and Adrian Wood, the authors of the book \"I Can't Believe It's a Bigger and Better Updated Unofficial Simpsons Guide\", praised the episode, calling it \"a great episode because the accidents that befall the pro players are so funny\". Chris Turner, the author of the book \"Planet Simpson\", said the episode was the indication that \"the Golden Age [of the show] had arrived\". Nate Meyers rated the episode a (of 5), stating \"the script makes great use of the baseball superstars, giving each of them a strong personality and plenty of pep (the highlight has to be Mattingly's clash with Mr. Burns).\" Colin Jacobson disliked the episode: \"when [\"Homer at the Bat\"] originally aired, I didn't like it. While I've warmed up to the show slightly over the last decade, I still think it's generally weak, and I'd definitely pick it as Season Three's worst.\"\n\n\"Entertainment Weekly\" placed the episode sixteenth on their top 25 \"The Simpsons\" episodes list, noting it was \"early proof that \"The Simpsons\" could juggle a squad of guest stars without giving the family short shrift.\" It was placed third on AskMen.com's \"Top 10: Simpsons Episodes\" list, Rich Weir called it \"one of the show's more memorable moments\" and \"effective as it combines a slew of guest stars with some hilarious material for Homer\". The entire episode was placed first on ESPN.com's list of the \"Top 100 Simpsons sport moments\", released in 2004. Greg Collins, the author of the list, gave great praise of the episode. He said this is the \"king of all sports episodes, and perhaps the greatest \"Simpsons\" episode ever\". A friend of Collins later met guest star Mike Scioscia and told him he thought his guest spot was the best thing Scioscia had ever done, he responded \"Thanks, I think\". Entertainment.ie named it among the 10 greatest \"Simpsons\" episodes of all time. Eric Reinagel, Brian Moritz and John Hill of \"Press & Sun-Bulletin\" named the episode the fourth best in the show's history, In 2019, \"Time\" ranked the episode fifth in its list of 10 best \"Simpsons\" episodes picked by \"Simpsons\" experts. In 2019, \"Consequence of Sound\" ranked it number six on its' list of top 30 \"Simpsons\" episodes. \n\nIGN.com ranked the baseballers' performances as the seventeenth best guest appearance in the show's history, calling \"each of these appearances was hilarious, making this a classic episode\". The Phoenix.com praised the performances of each of the guest stars, but Darryl Strawberry, whom they put in the fifth position, was the only one to make their \"Top 20 guest stars\" list. \"The Toronto Star\" named Homer's conversation with Darryl Strawberry as the \"greatest conversation of all time, involving the word yes\".\n\nThe episode has been credited with helping to save at least two lives. During the scene in which Homer chokes on a donut, a poster explaining how the Heimlich maneuver works is on the wall behind him. In May 1992, Chris Bencze was able to save his brother's life by performing the Heimlich Maneuver on him, having seen it in the episode, and in December 2007, Aiden Bateman was able to save his friend Alex Hardy's life by recalling the same.\n\nOn October 22, 2017, \"\", an hourlong mockumentary about the episode in the style of Ken Burns' \"Baseball\", aired on Fox to commemorate the 25th anniversary of this episode as well as Homer's induction into the National Baseball Hall of Fame and Museum. Among those interviewed were every player who appeared in the episode except Strawberry.\n\nBibliography\n\nFurther reading\n"}
{"id": "2009911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2009911", "title": "Dumfriesshire (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Dumfriesshire (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nDumfriesshire was a county constituency represented in the House of Commons of Great Britain (at Westminster) from 1708 to 1801 and in the House of Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdom (also at Westminster) from 1801 until 2005. It was known as Dumfries from 1950.\n\nThe British parliamentary constituency was created in 1708 following the Acts of Union, 1707 and replaced the former Parliament of Scotland shire constituency of Dumfries & Annandale.\n\nThe constituency was virtually unchanged until it was redistributed in 2005. It was redistributed to Dumfriesshire, Clydesdale and Tweeddale and Dumfries and Galloway as part of a major reorganisation of Scottish constituencies. It returned one Member of Parliament (MP) by the first past the post system.\n\nFrom 1885-1918 it comprised the shire districts of the county. From 1918 all the burghs we added.\n\n Dr Hunter was elected in 1929 as a Liberal candidate, but in the split after the 1931 general election, he joined the National Liberals.\n\nDouglas was appointed Comptroller of the Household, requiring a by-election.\n\nDouglas succeeded to the peerage, becoming 8th Marquess of Queensberry and causing a by-election.\n\nWaterlow was disqualified, owing to holding a government contract at the time of the election, causing a by-election.\n\nGeneral Election 1914/15:\n\nAnother General Election was required to take place before the end of 1915. The political parties had been making preparations for an election to take place and by the July 1914, the following candidates had been selected; \n\n"}
{"id": "2009916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2009916", "title": "The Crack", "text": "The Crack\n\nThe Crack is The Ruts first album, released in 1979 and containing the UK hit singles: \"Babylon's Burning\" (Number seven on the UK chart in June 1979) and \"Something That I Said\" (No. 29 in September 1979). The white-reggae \"Jah War\", which was written in the aftermath of the Southall unrest and the over-use of force by the Metropolitan Police Service's Special Patrol Group in 1979, was also released as a single but didn't make the UK chart.\n\nThe cover picture by artist John H. Howard shows the members of the group (from left to right: Malcolm Owen, Paul Fox, Dave Ruffy and Segs - who is perusing a copy of \"Exchange & Mart\") seated on a large sofa, around them are some of their contemporaries such as Rat Scabies and Captain Sensible of The Damned (top right corner), Jimmy Pursey of Sham 69 (bottom right), while Peter Cook and Dudley Moore are standing behind Malcolm, John Peel appears to be doing something to a schoolgirl (in uniform) with a bar of chocolate on the left hand side, Jimi Hendrix looks on from the right, the wives and girlfriends of the band members appear in various poses, as does the band's roadie Mannah (seen from the back) who assisted in writing the song \"S.U.S\" which deals with the vagrancy act, widely used by London's Metropolitan Police Service in the late 1970s. The astronomer Patrick Moore looks on somewhat disapprovingly from the left.\nThe album sleeve contains a dedication to Jimmy O'Neal, one of the organizers of the Deeply Vale Free Festival, where the band had their beginnings.\nThe original painting is now in the possession of punk icon (and fan and friend of the Ruts), Henry Rollins, who had gone on a search for the painting with the band's blessing. Rollins proudly displayed the painting in a video promoting the 2019 remastered vinyl edition of \"The Crack\".\n\nwith:\n"}
{"id": "2009925", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2009925", "title": "Nat Gonella", "text": "Nat Gonella\n\nNathaniel Charles Gonella (7 March 1908 – 6 August 1998) was an English jazz trumpeter, bandleader, vocalist, and mellophonist. He founded the big band The Georgians, during the British dance band era.\n\nGonella was born in Islington, North London, where he attended St Mary's Guardian School, an institution for underprivileged children where started playing cornet.\n\nAfter a short spell as a furrier's apprentice, his professional career began in 1924 when he joined Archie Pitt's Busby Boy's Band, a small pit orchestra and touring review band. During his four years with the band, he discovered the music of Louis Armstrong and dixieland jazz. He transcribed Armstrong's solos and learned them by heart. Beginning in 1928, Gonella spent a year in Bob Bryden's Louisville Band before working with Archie Alexander and Billy Cotton. Cotton's band allowed him to record his first solos and to explore scat singing.\n\nHe played briefly with Roy Fox in 1931 and remained in the band when Lew Stone, Fox's former pianist, took over leadership the following year. With Stone's band he established his reputation. When Louis Armstrong visited London in 1932, Gonella met him by begging the staff at the Boosey and Hawkes music shop to allow him to deliver Armstrong's trumpet, which had been left at the shop for cleaning. Armstrong appreciated his willingness to help, and the two became friends.\n\nIn 1933 Gonella published \"Modern Style Trumpet Playing – A Comprehensive Course\". He made uncredited appearances with Lew Stone and Al Bowlly in the films \"Bitter Sweet\" and \"The King's Cup\".\n\nGonella's reputation grew he formed The Georgians in 1935. The band took its name from a popular version of the song \"Georgia on My Mind\" that he recorded for Lew Stone in 1932 and which became the trumpeter's signature tune. The Georgians began as a band within Stone's shows before setting up as an independent unit. He became a headline act on the variety circuit before the outbreak of World War II.\n\nHe joined the army in 1941, and was recruited into the Stars in Battledress campaign, touring allied camps in Europe and North Africa. Whilst in Europe and North Africa Gonella served as the personal servant or \"batman\" to Major Alexander Karet and once the war had ended was offered the position as personal Butler to the Major, but he politely refused to pursue his music career.\n\nHe reformed his band after the war, but the economic and musical climate was changing rapidly at that time. He flirted briefly with bebop, acknowledged that it was not for him, and returned to the variety stage during the 1950s, touring with the likes of the comedian Max Miller.\n\nThe revival in traditional jazz in the late Fifties allowed him to reform his Georgians in 1960. In February 1960 he featured on the UK television show \"This Is Your Life\", an appearance which later inspired an album \"The Nat Gonella Story\", modelled on Louis Armstrong's \"A Musical Autobiography\". He also appeared on the BBC radio programme \"Desert Island Discs\" in August 1966.\n\nAll of this attention re-established Gonella, at least until the advent of The Beatles brought the trad jazz boom to a halt. He moved to Lancashire in 1962, and toured regularly on the Northern club circuit until his alleged retirement on his 65th birthday, on 7 March 1973.\n\nThat retirement did not last long. Drummer Ted Easton persuaded him to come to play to his (Easton's) club in the Netherlands during the mid-1970s, and a new recording of a song he had first cut with Roy Fox in 1931, \"Oh, Monah\", became a big hit in the Netherlands.\n\nIt was to be his final flourish on trumpet, but he continued to sing after moving to Gosport, Hampshire, in 1977 – where a square was renamed in his honour in 1994, and was always happy to stand up and do so in a local pubs or at the Gosport Jazz Club.\n\nDigby Fairweather's New Georgians paid tribute to Gonella's musical heritage in 1984, and Fairweather and fellow trumpeter Humphrey Lyttelton co-hosted a television tribute, \"Fifty Years of Nat Gonella\", the following year, in which Gonella himself was an enthusiastic participant.\n\nHe continued to sing occasionally with various bands, and made the headlines again in 1997 when a sampled excerpt of his trumpet playing from a recording he made in 1932 was used in White Town's number one pop hit, \"Your Woman\".\n\nNat Gonella died at the Gosport War Memorial Hospital, Hampshire on 6 August 1998, aged 90.\n\nGonella was a down-to-earth and unassuming character, and remained so throughout his life. On BBC Radio 4, Barry Humphries said that \"Oh Mona\" was one of two tracks that had most appealed to him in his life. Humphrey Lyttelton is among those who have testified to the fact that fame and success sat easily on Gonella's shoulders, and reports that he would show genuine astonishment when Lyttelton would confess, as well as other prominent musicians, to Gonella having been his first jazz hero.\n\n"}
{"id": "2009939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2009939", "title": "Madame Xanadu", "text": "Madame Xanadu\n\nMadame Xanadu is a comic book mystic published by DC Comics. The character is identified with Nimue, the sorceress from Arthurian mythology made popular by Sir Thomas Malory's \"Le Morte d'Arthur\".\n\nThe character was played by Jeryl Prescott in the 2019 television series \"Swamp Thing\" for the DC streaming service.\n\nThe character debuted in \"Doorway to Nightmare\" #1, (February 1978). The character was designed by cover artist Michael William Kaluta at the request of Joe Orlando (editor), based on Kaluta's unnamed host character (later known as Charity in the pages of \"Starman\") from the DC Comics mystery title \"Forbidden Tales of Dark Mansion\" (seen only on that title's indicia page) and the person of Cathy Ann Thiele. The original storyline was developed by David Michelinie and Val Mayerik.\n\n\"Doorway to Nightmare\", introduced in 1978, was the last of the DC \"Mystery\" line of titles in the 1970s that became the forerunner of Vertigo. It did not have a consistent creative team—the intent was to create writer-artist pairings that had never occurred before, except for the cover art of Michael William Kaluta. Madame Xanadu, the star of the series, was not a host but an active participant, albeit never the main character in her stories. The Phantom Stranger was criticized heavily in letter columns for taking a similar approach. The \"Doorway to Nightmare\" strip lasted for ten issues: five in its own series, four in \"The Unexpected\" issues 190, 192, 194 and 195, and one issue of \"Madame Xanadu\", which was DC's second direct sales only comic. The first issue of \"Madame Xanadu\" bore little difference from an issue of \"Doorway to Nightmare\". There were several requests to reprint it in letter columns of \"The Spectre\", but they were refused because that issue gave little background as to her character, although it did introduce Ishtar to the DC Universe, who dated Destruction.\n\nMadame Xanadu was a regular supporting cast member in volumes 2 and 3 of \"The Spectre\", those versions written by Doug Moench (31 issues, 1987–1989) and John Ostrander (62 issues, 1993–1998).\n\nA \"Madame Xanadu\" ongoing series from Vertigo was announced at the 2007 San Diego Comic Con and started in 2008. It was written by Matt Wagner, with art by Amy Reeder Hadley. The series also featured art stints by Kaluta, Joëlle Jones, Marley Zarcone, Laurenn McCubbin, Chrissie Zullo, Celia Calle, and Marian Churchland. The series was concluded after 29 issues, the final one dated January 2011. The series dealt with Madame Xanadu's early life from Arthurian times until the 1960s. Starting with issue 9, the book coincided with the events of the Golden Age DC Universe.\n\nThe \"Doorway to Nightmare\" stories were typically structured around a protagonist stumbling upon Madame Xanadu's shop (stated to be on \"Christy Street\" in the East Village) (changed to Greenwich Village in \"The Unexpected\" #192) and deciding to enter. She (usually) or he would tell a story of romance that was frustrated by an outside element. Xanadu, through a tarot reading, always determined this element to be of an occult nature, then sent the protagonist to do some task in which she would intervene with the use of her powers. Upon concluding the story, the occult element would wind up in a mason jar in her back room. In the first issue, she apparently became trapped in a burning building. The central couple returns to her shop for nostalgia's sake and discovers her to be quite alive. This was a hint at the extent of her powers. The primary variation in the stories was what the occult threat actually was, be it demonic forces, Asian mummies, vampires, incubi, or other supernatural threats. In one story, she fought Azazel, but he looked nothing like in \"The Sandman\".\n\nWhen the title was moved from its own series to a revamped, 68 page and ad-free version of \"The Unexpected\" (the stories were actually expanded from 17 to 22 pages with the move, part of the DC Implosion), she was shown to be friendly with Abel in the inside front covers, which may or may not have been in continuity. She never met Abel in an actual story until \"DC Special Series\" #21, when she and the Phantom Stranger arrive at the House of Mystery with Christmas presents.\n\nMadame Xanadu's origins were explored in the first few arcs of her Vertigo series. According to these stories, her full name was once Nimue Inwudu and she is the youngest sister of Morgana (to become Morgaine Le Fay) and Vivienne, the Lady of the Lake. The sisters are descendants of the Elder Folk, survivors of Atlantis who evolved into the race known as the \"Homo magi\".\n\nMadame Xanadu is the same Nimue who casts an imprisoning spell on her former lover Merlin, blaming him for manipulating Camelot and the course of history for his own gain. Merlin has the last laugh, though, as he succeeds in stripping her magic away from her, forcing her to use potions to maintain her immortality. The mysterious Phantom Stranger influences her betrayal of Merlin and the two continue to meet throughout the centuries, sharing an ambivalent relationship. Shortly after this, either she or the Lady of the Lake (regardless, called \"Nimue\") bore a son to Kon-Sten-Tyne, an ancestor of John Constantine. The child was left with Kon-Sten-Tyne, who sacrificed the boy as a teenager to Eve.\n\nNimue wanders around the world for some time, becoming an advisor to many great rulers. She spends time in Kublai Khan's court at Xanadu, leading to her assumed name of \"Madame Xanadu.\" Again she meets the Phantom Stranger. It does not go as expected, for she learns the Stranger walks outside of the timestream. During the French Revolution, she attempts to advise Marie Antoinette. During this era, she is able to regain her immortality by besting Death in a card game. Other incidents in her long years of life include a doomed lesbian love affair during the Spanish Inquisition.\n\nIn the 1940s, she has a sexual relationship with John Zatara, who wishes to marry her, but she foresees his true love, and the later existence of his daughter, Zatanna, \"a love with whom she could never compete.\" Despite this, she uses Zatara to trap and ensnare the Phantom Stranger, preventing him from witnessing, and affecting, the supernatural origins of the Spectre. This, in turn, prevents Madame Xanadu from interfering, despite having foreseen the potential menace the unchecked Spectre would have brought on Earth. It is revealed that Xanadu's later behavior stems from this earlier fault, her magic parlor being devised as a way to control the supernatural being, ultimately hoping to restrain and quell his rage.\n\nEventually, Madame Xanadu decides that she wants to atone for her sins and begins operating the fortune-telling parlor out of \"the Village\". She, however, remains without any real magic might of her own, which has led her to manipulate various forces in order to gain power. Having developed herself as an advisor, she now meets clientele plagued by supernatural problems. Although she can advise them, some force prevents her from directly interfering in solving their troubles. If one of her clients manages to conquer a supernatural force, she can contain that entity in jars within her fortune parlor to prevent it from causing any further trouble.\n\nWhen the Spectre is destroyed by the Anti-Monitor, Madame Xanadu performs a magic ritual that brings him back to existence. From that day forward she acts as the Spectre's spiritual advisor while he is bound to the soul of Jim Corrigan. At first, Xanadu tries to lead Corrigan astray in order to use the Spectre-Force for her own agendas. She is depicted in a nude love scene with the Spectre in the form of mist, although readers in the letters column did not find this clear and Xanadu's nudity gratuitous. Subsequent issues made clear that this was a romantic relationship, but no more nudity was used.\n\nOver the course of their affiliation however, a strange form of friendship grows between Corrigan and Madame Xanadu. Over time, Madame Xanadu is instrumental in ensuring the safety of Corrigan's soul, stopping the various rampages of the Spectre, and ultimately shows up at Jim Corrigan's funeral not as an advisor or enemy, but as his friend. She even sheds a tear as Jim Corrigan's soul leaves the mortal plane to go to Heaven.\n\nShe is also consulted by the Suicide Squad about the increasing difficulty of dealing with Enchantress. She provides the Squad with a ring and necklace that can harm the Enchantress if she tries to use her powers against the ring-bearers' wishes.\n\nMadame Xanadu also gives Timothy Hunter a reading, helping him along his path as an emerging sorcerer. She also confronts Tim's companion John Constantine, whom she believes stole a magic artifact called the Wind's Egg from her.\n\nAlthough Madame Xanadu, among others, has no great love for or trust in the Phantom Stranger, she is a member of the Sentinels of Magic, a loose group of mages and mystics that are called upon to thwart Asmodel's uprising in Hell. Nonetheless, she prefers to operate alone and is one of the few heroes who outright refuses to ally herself with the Stranger.\n\nIn order to gain more power, Madame Xanadu bartered her soul to the demon Neron, who gave her three loyal demons named Bathopet, Maw and Atopeh to do her commands. At first, the demons responded to her every whim and almost raged out of her control. Over time, as she controlled her own emotions, she became able to control the demons as well.\n\nIn \"Day of Vengeance\" #2, an \"Infinite Crisis\" tie-in, the Spectre, then unstable and believing that magic equaled evil, disabled Madame Xanadu and took her eyes.\n\nIn the \"Day of Vengeance\" special it is revealed that Madame Xanadu is still blind. She has regrown her eyes 14 times, only for them to be burned out again, because the Spectre's powers are beyond hers. However, Madame Xanadu's abode would be the rallying point of the offense against the Spectre, gathering the Phantom Stranger, Zatanna, and Nabu.\n\nXanadu has also found a way around the Spectre's curse by training an adept, Daena, to read the cards for her. Through Daena, she sees the destruction of the world with the Spectre winning and destroying everything. It is at her place that Nabu begins his offense against the Spectre as well as the strategy for restoring the Rock of Eternity.\n\nMadame Xanadu's standing in the new magic order has yet to be explored in detail. However, it is known that she is still trying to cure her blindness. She assists the Shadowpact when members of their team were temporarily blinded by the mystical powers of the villains known as 'the Congregation.' It is the mystical aspect that allows her to help, though some of the group are able to heal the blindness on their own.\n\nMadame Xanadu appears in \"Countdown\" #50, operating out of \"Hokus & Pokus Occult Curiosities\" in Greenwich Village. She is unable to help Mary Marvel locate Captain Marvel Jr. She does advise Mary to avoid Gotham City, because \"it isn't safe for magic.\"\n\nIn September 2011, The New 52 rebooted DC's continuity. In this new timeline, Madame Xanadu has resurfaced as the result of Barry Allen's unintentional tampering with the timestream and the merging of the Vertigo, WildStorm and DC Universes.\n\nIn the new continuity, Xanadu is no longer blind and despite her past as Nimue still applying, she seems to have taken a more proactive stance during the Fall of Camelot. Instead of quietly observing like she did in her core miniseries, she staunchly opposed the surrendering of Excalibur to the Lady of the Lake, and then started traveling with Jason Blood, meeting other Dark Ages-based heroes and villains as Vandal Savage and the Shining Knight. Furthermore, the Dark Ages Madame Xanadu is seen in a relationship with both Etrigan and Jason Blood, each one believing she was humoring the other for the sake of their forced merging.\n\nThe present-day Madame Xanadu is featured in the DC Universe reboot, in \"Justice League Dark\", resuming her role as the keystone and supporter of the magical community in the DCU. Xanadu assists the 'Dark League' in various incidents, such as Zatanna vanishing and the House of Mystery letting loose demonic threats in Manhattan. She is at length revealed to be the mother of the supervillain Doctor Destiny.\n\n\"National Comics\" was announced on April 6, 2012, as a revival of the anthology title, to be launched in July 2012 and to expand upon the New 52 universe by presenting single-issue stories about different DC characters, each by a different creative team.\nThis includes \"Madame X\" #1 by Rob Williams and drawn by Trevor Hairsine and Fiona Staples.\n\nMadame Xanadu has a supernatural sensitivity to occult activities and mystic phenomena. She uses tarot cards to interpret what she senses, and is also able to tell the future of others. Xanadu can levitate objects, teleport herself, and banish demons. Madame Xanadu's parlor is full of magical books and objects, as well as jars containing the essences of malevolent entities. She rarely uses these objects of power, merely acting as a guardian of them.\n\nMadame Xanadu is immortal, never aging and unable to die of natural causes thanks to her deal with Death. In the DC Universe, she may be outright unkillable even by beings such as the Spectre.\n\nIn the alternate timeline of the \"Flashpoint\", Madame Xanadu is still a fortune-teller. Traci Thirteen teleported to where Madame Xanadu is located and discovers that Madame Xanadu is dying. Before dying, Madame Xanadu tells her to stop the instigated Doctor Thirteen.\n\nIn the Tangent Comics series \"Joker's Wild\", Madame Xanadu is one of three women who masquerade as a heroic version of the Joker.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2009943", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2009943", "title": "Ea Jansen", "text": "Ea Jansen\n\nEa Jansen (14 November 1921 – 20 April 2005) was a historian of Finno-Ugric history originally from Estonia. Until her death, she worked for the Tallinn Pedagogical University.\n\n"}
{"id": "2009944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2009944", "title": "Catherine Mary Stewart", "text": "Catherine Mary Stewart\n\nCatherine Mary Stewart (; born 22 April 1959) is a Canadian actress.\n\nStewart was born on 22 April 1959, in Edmonton, Alberta, the daughter of Mary (Stewart) and John Ralph Nursall. Her parents taught at the University of Alberta, her mother a physiology teaching assistant and her father a biology professor. Stewart attended Strathcona Composite High School.\n\nStewart began her career as a dancer and moved to London, England, to study at age 18. There she landed a role in \"The Apple\" (1980), a musical science fiction cult film. During the production of \"The Apple\", the director Menahem_Golan took issue with her original name Mary Nursall and insisted she change it, which she did using using her mother's maiden name. \n\nAfter moving to Los Angeles she obtained a role on the soap opera \"Days of Our Lives\", playing the original Kayla Brady from January 1982 to December 1983. In 1984, she starred in two science fiction feature films, \"The Last Starfighter\" as Maggie Gordon and \"Night of the Comet\" as Regina Belmont. She later played a leading role in the teen comedy \"Mischief\".\n\nIn the mid-1980s, Stewart appeared in two miniseries: \"Hollywood Wives\" (1985) and \"Sins\" (1986), where she played the younger version of Joan Collins's character. She made guest appearances on television series such as \"Knight Rider\", \"Hotel\", \"Alfred Hitchcock Presents\" and \"The Outer Limits\". She starred in several made-for-TV movies such as \"Murder by the Book\" (1987), \"Passion and Paradise\" (1989), \"Perfect Harmony\" (1991) and \"Ordeal in the Arctic\" (1993). In 1989, she appeared as Gwen Saunders in the comedy film \"Weekend at Bernie's\".\n\nBeginning in the mid-1990s, she scaled back her appearances whilst she was raising her family. As her children have grown, she has again been appearing in television and film roles, and has expressed an interest in directing.\n\nShe is the sister of Alan Nursall, scientist and media personality who reports on science news for the Canadian TV series \"Daily Planet\" and the Discovery Channel. Another brother, John Nursall, is a freelance writer and TV/film documentary director and producer.\n\nShe was married to actor John Findlater in 1983 and divorced in 1985. She married Richard Allerton in 1992. She has a daughter and a son and lived in Brooklyn, New York, as of 2013.\n\n"}
{"id": "2009947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2009947", "title": "Alice, Sweet Alice", "text": "Alice, Sweet Alice\n\nAlice, Sweet Alice (originally titled Communion and also known as Holy Terror) is a 1976 American slasher film co-written and directed by Alfred Sole, and starring Linda Miller, Paula Sheppard, and Brooke Shields in her film debut. Set in 1961 New Jersey, the film focuses on a troubled adolescent girl who becomes a suspect in the brutal murder of her younger sister at her first communion, as well as in a series of unsolved stabbings that follow.\n\nInspired by Nicolas Roeg's \"Don't Look Now\" (1973) and the films of Alfred Hitchcock, writer-director Sole devised the screenplay with Rosemary Ritvo, an English professor who was his neighbor. At the time, Sole had been working as an architect restoring historic buildings in his hometown of Paterson, New Jersey, and several properties he had worked on were used as shooting locations. Filming took place throughout the summer of 1975 in Paterson and Newark.\n\nThe film premiered at the Chicago International Film Festival under its original title, \"Communion\", in November 1976, and was released under this title in London in September 1977. After being acquired by Allied Artists, it was re-titled \"Alice, Sweet Alice\", and released in the United States on November 18, 1977. Another theatrical re-release occurred in 1981 under the title \"Holy Terror\", which marketed the popularity of Shields after her performance in Louis Malle's \"Pretty Baby\" (1978). While not prosecuted for obscenity, the film was seized and confiscated in the UK under Section 3 of the Obscene Publications Act 1959 during the video nasty panic, and was controversial in Ireland due to its apparent anti-Catholic themes.\n\nIn the years since its release, \"Alice, Sweet Alice\" has gained a cult following and is considered a contemporary classic of the slasher subgenre in critical circles. It has also been the focus of scholarship in the areas of horror film studies, particularly regarding its depictions of Roman Catholicism, child emotional neglect, and the disintegration of the American nuclear family.\n\nIn 1961 Paterson, New Jersey, divorced mother Catherine Spages visits Father Tom with her two daughters, nine-year-old Karen and twelve-year-old Alice, who both attend St. Michael's Parish Girls' School. Karen is preparing for her First Communion, and Father Tom gives her his mother's crucifix as a gift. A jealous Alice puts on a translucent mask, frightening Father Tom's housekeeper, Mrs. Tredoni. Later, Alice steals Karen's porcelain doll and lures her into an abandoned building. She scares Karen before locking her in a room, and threatens her if she tells anyone. On the day of her First Communion, Karen is strangled to death in the church transept by a person wearing a translucent mask and a yellow raincoat. Her body is stuffed into a bench compartment near the confessionals, which is set on fire with a candle, but not before her crucifix is ripped from her neck. Meanwhile, Alice enters the church, carrying Karen's veil; she kneels in place to receive communion. Simultaneously, a nun who has noticed smoke coming from the transept locates Karen's body. She screams in horror, disrupting the communion ceremony which descends into a frenzied panic.\n\nAfter Karen's funeral, Catherine's ex-husband Dominick begins independently investigating her murder, while Detective Spina formally handles the case. Catherine's sister Annie moves in to help her through her grief, though Alice and Annie despise each other. Catherine sends Alice to deliver a rent check to their landlord, Mr. Alphonso, and he attempts to fondle and molest her. Shortly after, while descending the stairs to go shopping, Annie is attacked by a raincoated figure in a mask. At the hospital, Annie claims that Alice tried to kill her. Alice is sent to a psychiatric institution for evaluation.\n\nLater, Dominick receives a hysterical phone call from someone claiming to be Annie's daughter Angela, saying that she has Karen's crucifix. Dominick agrees to meet her at an abandoned building. There, he spots the raincoated figure, and follows it into the building. On a staircase landing, the figure stabs him before beating him with a brick and binding him with rope. Dominick regains consciousness and sees that the killer is in fact Mrs. Tredoni, who chastises Dominick and Catherine as sinners over their premarital sex and eventual divorce. After Dominick bites Karen's crucifix off her neck, Mrs. Tredoni beats him with her shoe and pushes him out a window to his death. Catherine goes to visit Father Tom, thinking that Dom is there talking with him. He is not home, and neither is Dom, but Mrs. Tredoni invites Catherine in albeit begrudgingly. While preparing the night's dinner for Father Tom and the Monsignor, Mrs. Tredoni explains to Catherine that when her own daughter died on the day of her First Communion, she realized children are punished for the sins of their parents. In her grief and madness, she devotes herself to the church. Father Tom arrives during the conversation, and tells Catherine that Dom has died. She begins crying hysterically. During Dominick's autopsy, the pathologist finds Karen's crucifix in his mouth, and Alice is formally eliminated as a suspect. Father Tom and Catherine then go get Alice from the institution.\n\nLater that day, Mrs. Tredoni sneaks into Catherine and Alice's apartment building, unaware they have left for church. Simultaneously, Mr. Alphonso wakes up screaming, as Alice had mischievously placed a jar of cockroaches on him while he slept. Mr. Alphonso encounters Mrs. Tredoni in the staircase and mistakes her for Alice. When he shoves her against a wall, she stabs him to death and flees. However, Detective Spina witnesses her running out of the back entrance without a mask on. Mrs. Tredoni rushes to the church, where the police are stationed outside. At the same time, Det. Spina runs in the apartment upon hearing Mr. Alphonso's screams, arriving too late to save him. At the mass, Father Tom denies Mrs. Tredoni communion. She points at Catherine, screams that he gave communion to a whore, and stabs the priest in the throat as the police rush in. While Father Tom bleeds to death in Mrs. Tredoni's arms, Alice walks out of the church with Mrs. Tredoni's shopping bag, and places the bloodstained butcher knife into it.\n\nNumerous film scholars have noted the film's hysterical portrayal of Catholicism and religious institutions to be in direct conversation with the motives of its villain, Mrs. Tredoni, whose ultimate goal is to \"punish\" the sinning members of her parish; this has resulted in some claiming the film to be overtly \"anti-Catholic\".\n\nWriter-director Sole's own proclaiming of himself as an \"ex-Catholic\" supports this interpretation of the film's religious themes and undertones. Prior to writing and directing \"Alice, Sweet Alice\", Sole had directed his debut feature, an adult film titled \"Deep Sleep\", in 1972. The release of the film resulted in obscenity charges being brought against him in the state of New Jersey, as well as formal excommunication from the Roman Catholic Diocese of Paterson, New Jersey; this event has been credited as influential to the apparent anti-religious bent of \"Alice, Sweet Alice\".\n\nThe murder scenes in the film in particular have been described by genre scholars such as John Kenneth Muir as \"stark and shocking,\" and noted for their use of \"powerful imagery\" correlating with the film's religious overtones. Muir views the film as a precursor to such films as \"Seven\" (1995), which focus on individuals being punished by death for their sins and character flaws. Catholic iconography is featured prominently throughout the film, including votive candles, crucifixes, and rosaries, as well as artistic depictions of the Virgin Mary in sculptures and paintings.\n\nSheila O'Malley of \"Film Comment\" notes that: \"From one scene to the next, religious iconography overwhelms the screen: paintings of Mary and Christ, marble statues, crosses on every wall, religion leering at the characters from behind. Parishioners kneel at the altar, pushing out fat tongues for communion (\"Communion\" was the film’s original title), looking like a parade of aggressive Rolling Stones logos. Religion is not a refuge in \"Alice, Sweet Alice\". It is a rejection of the body itself, but the body—its tongues, its teeth, its menstruation—will not be denied.\"\n\nAdditionally, Chuck Bowen of \"Slant Magazine\" observes that the presentation of the church sequences signifies a closed-in nature that \"favors cramped medium shots and close-ups that induce claustrophobia. The characters always appear to be cramped together in the church, on top of one another, and their homes are composed of similarly small passageways.\" Despite this, Bowen asserts that the film is not \"exactly an indictment of the church,\" but rather a \"febrile portrait...  of how society enables dysfunction on multiple fronts, from the domestic to the religious to the psychiatric.\"\n\nBowen notes familial dissolution as a theme in \"Alice, Sweet Alice\", citing the backstory involving the Spages and Dominick's separation from Catherine: \"Sole allows these reverberations, particularly the parallel bitterness existing between Catherine and Annie and Karen and Alice, both of which have been intensified by religion, to gradually assert themselves into our minds...  Catherine and Dom’s splintered relationship is also portrayed as a gateway to chaos, primarily for Catherine’s distracted nature and unwillingness to face the truth of her family.\"\n\nScholar Claire Sisco King notes in a 2007 essay that the film is preoccupied with the theme of theatrical performativity perpetrated by children who are emotionally neglected by their parents. King suggests that the title character of Alice is ostracized by her mother and aunt, and lacking attention from her absent father, who only returns after Karen's murder. King elaborates on Alice's performativity:\nWriter David J. Hogan considers \"Alice, Sweet Alice\" among a series of films made between the 1970s and 1980s preoccupied with sibling rivalry, and which feature \"violations of the integrity of the nuclear family.\" Hogan views the film as an extension of such features as \"What Ever Happened to Baby Jane?\" (1969), an earlier film that blended horror with familial drama between siblings.\n\nDirector Alfred Sole began writing the film in 1974, collaborating with co-writer Rosemary Ritvo on the script. Ritvo, an English doctoral student at Fordham University, was Sole's neighbor, and the two often talked about films together. \"She was a Catholic and we would talk about the Catholic church, religion and stuff like that. Then we started talking about films and theater and I discovered she had a great love of horror films,\" Sole recalled. The two began meeting during weekends and workshopping the screenplay together. At the time, Sole was working as an architect in New Jersey.\n\nSole was inspired to make the film after seeing Nicolas Roeg's 1973 psychological thriller, \"Don't Look Now\", based on the novel by Daphne du Maurier. As a result, \"Alice, Sweet Alice\" makes several visual references to \"Don't Look Now\", namely the usage of the raincoat which is featured on the villains in both films. In developing the character of Alice, Sole and screenwriter Ritvo aspired to create a \"child who has been neglected, and who could go either way,\" dividing the audience in regards to her guilt or innocence in the crimes committed. Sole chose to set the film in 1960s-era Paterson, New Jersey, his hometown, and culled much of the family drama and dynamics from his own Italian-Catholic upbringing. The character of Mrs. Tredoni, the villain, was based on a woman who lived at the Catholic rectory next-door to his grandmother's house and looked after the clergy.\n\nSole was also influenced by the works of Alfred Hitchcock, as well as the 1955 French film \"Les Diaboliques\", while assembling compositions in the film. Although many critics have drawn comparisons to Italian giallo films and the works of Dario Argento in particular, Sole claimed to have not seen Argento's work at the time. Nonethless, the film's incorporation of subtle dark humor and its unsympathetic portrayal of religion — both motifs of giallo thrillers — led to the film's reputation as the most \"gialloesque\" American film in history.\n\nSole, at the time an inexperienced filmmaker, did not have a casting director to cast the film, and instead would approach various stage actors about playing the parts. \"I didn't have a working knowledge of what an actor does,\" Sole recalled, so I started going to a lot of theater.\" Sole would approach actors after shows with his screenplay in hopes of casting them. Brooke Shields was the first to be cast in the film after auditioning in New York City in 1975; director Sole had seen her modeling in a \"Vogue\" advertisement, and contacted her mother about the film, expressing his interest in her playing the role of young Karen. For her audition, Shields was required to mime as though she were being strangled to death. Sole recalled that Shields's mother \"bent over backwards to help me out.\" Sole cast Paula Sheppard, then a college student, as 12-year-old Alice, the protagonist suspected of her sister's murder. At the time of being cast, Sheppard was 18 years old, and had been discovered by Sole while working as a dancer in stage productions at Connecticut College. Though playing a 12-year-old, Sheppard celebrated her 19th birthday during the shoot in early July 1976. Linda Miller, an actress and daughter of Jackie Gleason, was cast in the role of Alice and Karen's mother, Catherine.\n\nOf the supporting cast, Alphonso De Noble, a New Jersey native, was cast as the sleazy landlord after director Sole had seen him impersonating a priest in local cemeteries. Sole had originally sought veteran stage actress Geraldine Page for the role of Mrs. Tredoni; Page, however, could not due to obligations in a Broadway production, but recommended fellow stage actress Mildred Clinton, who played the role. Tom Signorelli, who played Detective Brennan, an officer investigating the crimes, was a New York stage actor. Lillian Roth, a former film actress-turned-Broadway performer, was cast in a minor role as the pathologist, marking her first film role in decades.\n\nIn the years after the film's release, Sole spoke favorably of Shields and Sheppard, though he recalled that much of the cast were \"New York actors who were doing me a favor.\" He also commented that he and Miller clashed significantly, describing her as \"really difficult to work with...  A real nightmare.\" Despite this, he conceded: \"Linda is an excellent actor; they all are.\"\n\nThe film was primarily shot on location in Paterson, New Jersey in the summer of 1975, with much of the crew being based out of New York City. While some newspaper sources stated the budget was $1 million, Sole claimed the film ultimately cost $350,000. To help finance the film, Sole refinanced his home and cleared his life savings. \"My family was really supportive,\" he recalled, \"and my mother cooked for the crew, my neighbors chipped in; everyone was just so kind and supportive of me that we eventually got it made.\" In addition to Paterson, some photography took place in the city of Newark.\n\nApproximately 90% of the film was shot using a 16 mm camera, as Sole wanted the frames to have \"wide\" appearance with significant foreground. Sole's occupation as a local restorational architect in Paterson helped him secure several shooting locations, effectively lending the film a modern Gothic aesthetic. Among the Paterson locations was the historic Rogers Locomotive and Machine Works building, where several sequences were filmed. Exteriors of the church were shot at St. Michael's Parish in Newark and the First Presbyterian Church in Paterson (demolished two years after filming), while the church interiors were filmed inside a hospital chapel. Additional interior photography took place at the Governor Morris Hotel in Morris Township. The stairwell interiors of the Spages' apartment building were filmed inside the historic former home of manufacturer John Ryle.\nThe production was periodically postponed during filming, with Sole stating that sometimes two to four week breaks would be taken between filming sessions due to budget issues, during which the production sought out additional funding. On one occasion, filming was temporarily halted after actress Linda Miller attempted suicide by slitting her wrists while shooting the film's final sequence in the church. After a week of convalescing, Miller returned to the set and completed her scenes, though a bandage can be seen on her wrist in several sequences. Because of the repeated starts and stops, the production had to recurrently hire new cameramen; Sole estimated that a total of six different cameramen worked on the film. The total number of shooting days was around 20, as estimated by Sole.\n\nFor the film's special effects, which included multiple murder sequences by bludgeoning and stabbing, Sole hired friend William Lustig, who would later direct the cult horror film \"Maniac\" (1980). Lustig also worked as an assistant cameraman on the film. Dick Vorisek, who had previously worked on \"Dog Day Afternoon\" (1975) and \"Carrie\" (1976), was hired onto the film as chief sound engineer after Sole was put in contact with him through Technicolor. The special effects in the film were achieved via practical methods, such as the stabbing sequences, which were shot using a fake retractable knife designed by Sole's friend, an engineer.\n\nThe film premiered under the title \"Communion\" at the Chicago International Film Festival in the fall of 1976, where it earned a Silver Medal award. Columbia Pictures signed on to distribute the film in the United States, and secured a book tie-in by author Frank Lauria, which was eventually published in 1977 by Bantam Books. The studio's chief stipulation was that Sole cut a total of three minutes out of the film, to which he agreed. However, following a monetary dispute between Columbia and producer Richard Rosenberg, Columbia ultimately dropped the film from their roster. In the United Kingdom, Hemdale Film Corporation purchased distribution rights to the film, premiering it in London on September 8, 1977, under its original \"Communion\" title.\n\nAllied Artists subsequently purchased the film for North American distribution, and forced the filmmakers to change the title from \"Communion\" to \"Alice, Sweet Alice\", out of fear that the public would perceive it to be a Christian film. Allied Artists' revised title, \"Alice, Sweet Alice\", originated from a quote in Volume 16 of the Publications of the Catholic Truth Society, published in 1898, which reads: \"Then there is Alice—sweet Alice—your eldest born, who leans over the back of your chair and sweeps your face with her brown curls.\" Director Sole reportedly fought Allied Artists on the changing of the title to no avail; the film was ultimately released as \"Alice, Sweet Alice\" in the United States on November 18, 1977. In some cities, such as Pensacola, Florida, the film was screened under the alternate title \"The Mask Murders\".\n\nFollowing the rising fame of Brooke Shields after her performance in \"Pretty Baby\" (1978), the film was released for a third time in 1981 under the title \"Holy Terror\".\n\n\"Alice, Sweet Alice\" received mixed reviews from critics upon release. Roger Ebert gave the film a favorable review, stating: \"Director Alfred Sole has a brilliant touch for the macabre and there are some splendidly chilling scenes,\" while \"US Magazine\" called the film a \"superior modern Gothic thriller.\" Daniel Ruth of \"The Tampa Tribune\" praised the screenplay, referring to it as \"a tight, well-paced melodrama that keeps its audience guessing who the murderer is until the last possible moment,\" while Leonard Maltin awarded the film a mixed 2 out of 4 stars, calling it \"[an] OK murder mystery.\" Bill Brownstein of the Montreal \"Gazette\" deemed the film \"a gory and effective\" surprise, praising its cinematography despite its story having \"gaps and inconsistencies.\"\n\nSome critics, such as Vincent Canby of \"The New York Times\", noted the authenticity of the film's characters and settings: \"Mr. Sole, whose first feature this is, knows how to direct actors, how to manipulate suspense and when to shift gears: the identity of the killer is revealed at just that point when the audience is about to make the identification, after which the film becomes less of a horror film than an exercise in suspense. He also has a good feeling for the lower middle-class locale and the realities of the lives of the people who live in it.\" Ernest Leogrande of the \"New York Daily News\" echoed Canby's sentiment, awarding the film two-and-a-half stars out of four and writing that it \"has qualities that take it out of the usual run of sanguinary homicidal horror movies, an attention given to dialogue, to authenticity of setting and to revelatory and atmospheric touches.\"\n\nDespite favorable reviews, numerous critics deemed the film obscene due to its violent and religious content, among them Linda Gross of the \"Los Angeles Times\", who, though praising of Sheppard and Shields's performances, summarized the film as \"foul...  \"Alice\", which offers 105 minutes of atrociousness and bloody homicides perpetrated upon children by other children and infirm adults, is an obscenity.\" \"The Boston Globe\"s Michael Blowen similarly deemed the film a \"gross vulgarity of an exploitation picture [that] begins as a slick, glossy thriller [but] gradually degenerates into a bloody mess... Sole employs craftsmanlike camerawork and swift editing in an attempt to gloss over the inconsistent script, but this film's complete lack of originality cannot be hidden.\" William Whitaker of the \"Abilene Reporter-News\" similarly criticized the film's violence as \"a little too much after awhile,\" but conceded that the \"script has enough imagination and the direction enough insight to make it passable fare as far as these kind of films go.\" The film's depiction of Catholicism in an unfavorable light also drew ire from reviewers: Tom McElfresh of \"The Cincinnati Enquirer\" was particularly critical of this, describing the film as \"wholly, totally terrible,\" and a \"mishmash full of sexual innuendo and rage at the Catholic church.\" In Ireland, the film was notably controversial due to its perceived anti-Catholic themes.\n\nThe film currently has a 82% approval rating on Rotten Tomatoes based on 11 reviews.\n\nDuring the changes in distributors and due to a myriad of legal problems, the film was not properly registered with the United States Copyright Office in 1975 during its production. As a result, the film became widely bootlegged in the following years. Some VHS versions of the film released in the 1980s feature a truncated 98-minute cut of the film, such as a release by Celebrity Home Entertainment in 1987.\n\nIn 1997, Anchor Bay Entertainment released the film on VHS in its 108-minute, fully uncut version, with remastering supervised by director Alfred Sole. A DVD edition was subsequently released by Anchor Bay in 1999. After this edition of the film became out of print, it was re-released on DVD by Hen's Tooth Video in 2007. In the UK, the film has undergone controversy due to the Video Nasty debacle and never had a proper video release until 2003. The first UK release was by Video International on DVD, utilizing a NTSC-PAL converted 4:3 video master with BBFC cuts to the scene where a kitten is aggressively grabbed and thrown around the room (which eventually ended up getting waved with later DVD releases, as it was discovered the cat grabbing shot was a camera angle trick and that a stuffed toy kitten was used for the tossing shots). In 2014, 88 Films had put out an the first ever anamorphic widescreen DVD in the UK, utilizing a digitally processed and noise reduced version of the 1997 Laserdisc master used for the Anchor Bay and Hens Tooth DVD releases. 88 Films then followed up with a UK premiere on Blu-ray on July 9, 2018. This release utilizes a 2k restoration of a 35mm print being the 1981 \"Holy Terror\" reissue and bearing said title card. In May 2019, Arrow Films, in conjunction with Warner Home Video and director Alfred Sole, confirmed they will be releasing a North American Blu-ray edition of the film on August 6, 2019. Arrow's edition utilizes a 2k restoration of the camera negative, sporting both the original \"Communion\" and \"Holy Terror\" versions, along with several newly produced extras and the alternate \"Alice, Sweet Alice\" opening credits.\n\nIn the years following its release, \"Alice, Sweet Alice\" garnered a reputation as a cult film. On the review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes, \"Alice, Sweet Alice\" holds an 82% approval rating based on 11 critic reviews, with an average rating of 7.18/10.\n\nPatrick Legare of AllMovie called the film an \"eerie, effective chiller,\" praising the film's cinematography, and awarding it four-and-a-half out of five stars, while \"TV Guide\" praised it as \"an excellent low-budget horror film from director Sole, whose impressive grasp of filmmaking technique and eye for the grotesque keeps the viewer on edge throughout the movie.\" Ed Gonzalez of \"Slant Magazine\" noted in his 2005 review of the film: \"Possibly the closest American relation to an Italian giallo, the film is head-trippingly hilarious (Jane Lowry, as Aunt Annie, may be the nuttiest screamer in the history of cinema) and features some of the more disquieting set pieces you'll ever see in a horror film.\" \"Time Out, London\" praised the film for constructing \"a running commentary on the themes of Alfred Hitchcock: against a carefully evoked background of Catholicism emerge twin themes of repression and guilt.\"\n\nHorror film scholar Scott Aaron Stine, in \"The Gorehound's Guide to Splatter Films of the 1960s and 1970s\", notes the film as \"Compelling, and not entirely predictable, Sole's first (and only truly worthwhile) effort is driven by strong anti-Catholic messages (\"á la\" Pete Walker) and—even more pertinent—littered with unflinchingly disturbing scenes of violence that are reminiscent of [Dario] Argento's earlier handling of brutality.\"\n\nIn 2005, \"Alice, Sweet Alice\" ranked #89 on Bravo's \"The 100 Scariest Movie Moments\" for the scene when Alice scares Karen in the warehouse. In 2017, the film was ranked the fourth-best slasher film of all time by \"Complex\" magazine.\n\nIn 2007 director Dante Tomaselli announced his intent to direct a remake, confirmed that he had completed a script with Michael Gingold. Tomaselli will also score the film using original pieces and re-mastered and remixed musical compositions from the original film. In 2013 actress Kathryn Morris was confirmed to be performing in the film and will assume the role of Catherine Spages. The film will be set in the 1970s as opposed to setting it in modern times or in its original 1960s setting, as Tomaselli wanted to be \"somewhat more recent while not at all losing its retro style\". In May 2016, Tomaselli revealed that the film had suffered delays due to lack of funds, but also stated that he had been in recent contact with \"solid prospects from European production companies and producers.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2009949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2009949", "title": "Amira Casar", "text": "Amira Casar\n\nAmira Casar is a British-born actress who grew up in England, Ireland, and France.\n\nAmira is the daughter of a Kurdish father and a Russian mother. She was born in London and was subsequently raised in England, Ireland, and France. She studied drama at the Conservatoire National d'Art Dramatique de Paris between 1991 and 1994. She is fluent in both English and French and has worked in German, Italian, and Spanish.\n\nCasar's first role was in the 1989 film \"\" (\"Error of Youth\") by . She played Sandra Benzakhem in the 1997 film \"La Vérité si je mens !\", for which she was nominated for a César Award for Most Promising Actress. She later appeared in the film's two sequels, in 2001 and 2012.\n\nCasar portrayed Myriem in \"How I Killed My Father\" (2001) by Anne Fontaine; Assia Wevill in \"Sylvia\" (2003) by Christine Jeffs; the lead role of The Woman in the Catherine Breillat erotic film \"Anatomy of Hell\" (2004); and Eva in \"To Paint or Make Love\" (2005) by Arnaud and Jean-Marie Larrieu, which was nominated for the Palme d'Or at the 2005 Cannes Film Festival.\n\nOther roles include Marianne in \"Hypnotized and Hysterical\" (2002), a film by which won the Grand Golden Rail at the 2002 Cannes Film Festival; Malvina van Stille in \"The Piano Tuner of Earthquakes\" by the Brothers Quay (2005); and Marie in Tony Gatlif's \"Transylvania\" in 2006.\n\nIn 2007, Casar appeared in installation artist Sophie Calle's Venice Biennale piece \"Prenez soin de vous\" (\"Take Care of Yourself\").\n\nIn 2008, she played Dolorès in Laetitia Masson's ', and portrayed Irene in Werner Schroeter's last film, \"Nuit de chien\". Casar played the lead role of Anna Di Baggio in the film ' in 2009.\n\nShe won the Best Actress award at La Rochelle Television Film Festival for her portrayal of Dora Maar in ' in 2010. In 2011, Casar played Irène in ', and Deniz in \"Playoff\". In 2013, she appeared in the Arnaud des Pallières film \"Michael Kohlhaas\", and portrayed Anne-Marie Munoz in Bertrand Bonello's \"Saint Laurent\" in 2014.\n\nIn 2015, Casar appeared in\" The Forbidden Room\" by Canadian director Guy Maddin. and portrayed Béatrice, Madame de Clermont, in the TV series \"Versailles\". In 2017, she played Annella Perlman in the film \"Call Me by Your Name\". She also appeared in the Caroline Fourest film \"Sisters in Arms\", about a team of female Kurdish soldiers and volunteers.\n\nOn stage, Casar's work includes the Almeida Theatre production of \"Aunt Dan and Lemon\"; the title role in \"Hedda Gabler\" at Le Petit Théâtre de Paris; and Olivier Py's 2009 production of \"Les Enfants de Saturne\" at the Theatre National de L'Odéon, Paris. In 2011, she appeared in the title role of Petra in \"The Bitter Tears of Petra von Kant\", and received critical acclaim in Arthur Honegger's \"Jeanne d'Arc au bûcher\" at the Barbican Centre with the London Symphony Orchestra.\n\nCasar also appeared in the 1995 Bryan Adams music video for \"Have You Ever Really Loved a Woman?\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2009957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2009957", "title": "Gay-friendly", "text": "Gay-friendly\n\nGay-friendly or LGBTQ-friendly are the places, policies, people, or institutions that are open and welcoming to gay people (to include all members of the LGBTQ community) to create an environment that is supportive of gay people and their relationships, respectful of all people, treat all people equally, and are non-judgmental. This is typically a late 20th-century North American term that is the byproduct of both a gradual implementation of gay rights and acceptance of policies supportive of LGBTQ people in the workplace and in schools, as well as the recognition of gays and lesbians as a distinct consumer group for businesses etc.\n\n\"The Advocate\" publishes a list periodically of the gayest cities in America that include cities such as Provincetown, Palm Springs, Wilton Manors, San Diego, Austin, and several others based on facts such as their same sex marriage laws, number of same sex couples, and other qualifiers.\n\nThe \"Spartacus International Gay Guide\" publishes the Gay Travel Index, a ranking of gay-friendly countries. Points are added to countries for anti-discrimination legislation, equal marriage, partnership and adoption laws, and LGBTQ marketing. Meanwhile, points are subtracted for anti-LGBTQ laws, HIV travel restrictions, religious influence, and prosecution, murders, and death sentences to LGBTQ.\n\nIn 2013, the \"Spartacus\" Gay Travel Index features a majority of Western European countries in the top 11 (Sweden, Denmark, Iceland, Norway, Finland, Belgium, France, the Netherlands, United Kingdom, and Spain), plus Canada, New Zealand, and Uruguay. The bottom 5 countries are Iran, the United Arab Emirates, Russia, Jordan and Jamaica.\n\n\"Spartacus\" also publishes a Gay Travel Index USA, listing the 50 states plus the District of Columbia with the same criteria as the countries ranking. In 2013, the top 5 regions were from the Northeast, whereas the top 10 also includes California, Illinois, and Oregon. The bottom 10 states are mainly from the Southeast and Mountain states (Utah, Idaho, and Montana).\n\nMany businesses now identify as gay-friendly, allowing for a more diversified employee and customer base. The Human Rights Campaign works to achieve equality for gays, lesbians, and other marginalized minorities, and publishes a list of companies in relation to issues concerning LGBTQ people. Companies that are noted for gay-friendly work environments include Dell Inc. and Coca-Cola. Companies such as R Family Vacations, Manspray, Volkswagen, Ginch Gonch, Egotour, and numerous others offer niche products and services for gay customers. Others, such as LOT Polish Airlines sends the message of gay-friendliness by offering travel to major gay destinations with a rainbow flag. Studies have shown that LGBTQ communities tend to favor gay-friendly businesses, even if the cost of a particular product or service is higher.\n\nNotes:\n\n Notes \n\n"}
{"id": "2009964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2009964", "title": "Disco Infiltrator", "text": "Disco Infiltrator\n\n\"Disco Infiltrator\" is a song from the eponymous debut album by LCD Soundsystem. It was released on 6 June 2005 as the debut's sixth single. The song was written by LCD Soundsystem's frontman James Murphy and produced by Murphy and Tim Goldsworthy as The DFA. It contains a sample from Kraftwerk's \"Home Computer\".\n\nThe B-side of the 7\" release is a cover version of Siouxsie and the Banshees' \"Slowdive\" from their 1982 album, \"A Kiss in the Dreamhouse\". The cover was recorded during a live in-studio performance for XFM London.\n"}
{"id": "2009971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2009971", "title": "Saugeen Shores", "text": "Saugeen Shores\n\nSaugeen Shores is a town in Bruce County, Ontario, Canada, formed in 1998. (The name \"Saugeen\" is the corrupted form of the word \"Zaagiing\" in the language of the Chippewas of Saugeen Ojibway Territory, meaning \"at the river's outlet\" or \"at the mouth of the river\".)\n\nOn January 30, 1998, the provincial government amalgamated the Towns of Southampton and Port Elgin, together with Saugeen Township, to form the Town of Port Elgin-Saugeen-Southampton. On December 17, 1998, the Province renamed the entity as the Town of Saugeen Shores.\n\nThe primary employment categories are agriculture, small business, tourism and employment at the Bruce Power nuclear power station. The population doubles in the summer due to cottagers and campers who arrive in the area. Close to MacGregor Point Provincial Park, the town has several beaches on Lake Huron.\n\nIn addition to the two main population centres of Southampton and Port Elgin, the town includes a portion of the village of Burgoyne and the North Bruce area, straddling the municipal eastern and southern boundary respectively. In 2016, the permanent population of Saugeen Shores was 13,715, in a land area of .\n\nThe area that is now Port Elgin was settled by Europeans in 1849, when Lachlan McLean (\"Loch Buie\") built a shanty and lived in it for the winter. For several years he ran a tavern, his patrons consisting primarily of settlers and sailors passing through the little port. In spring 1852 George Butchart built a dam and saw-mill on Mill Creek.\n\nAccording to an Ontario historic plaque, Butchart sold the mill to Benjamin Shantz who built a grist-mill, and within three years a community of 250 people had developed around these mills. Stores, hotels and tanneries were constructed and in March 1857, a village plot named Port Elgin was laid out. The enterprise of its businessmen, notably Henry Hilker, Samuel Bricker and John Stafford, contributed to the development of the settlement, which had a population of over 600 by 1867. The arrival of the Wellington, Grey and Bruce Railway in 1872 further stimulated the growth of the community and it was incorporated as a village in 1874 with a population of about 950.\" By 1854, the community had three houses, a tavern, and mill. Shops, churches, schools, and roads followed, and ten years later the population totalled six hundred and thirty. Early industries included a steam sawmill, foundry, and woolen mill. In 1873, the railway arrived, allowing Southampton and Port Elgin products to travel out into the world.\nSouthampton was founded by Captains John Spence and William Kennedy in 1848. \nCommercial fishing and coastal trade drove the economy, with the Saugeen River and Lake Huron making for ideal transportation before roads had been built. Its name was changed from Saugeen in 1858. The Chantry Island Lightstation Tower (off Southampton) was completed in April 1859, guiding sailors clear of the underwater boulders that make navigation dangerous. Southampton was incorporated as a town in 1904; at the time, its population was 2,400. The economic base included furniture factories, a tannery and a sawmill. The town built a hospital in 1947, a post office in 1952, a library in 1956, an arena in 1961 (replaced in 1977) and a new firehall in 1974.\n\nThe town's Official Plan (most recently completed in 2014) includes the following comment about the land area: \"The Chippewas of the Saugeen First Nation and the Chippewas of Nawash First Nation have filed a Native Land Claim for the islands in the Saugeen River, the lands that border the north side of the Saugeen River and the shoreline from the mouth of the Saugeen River northerly around the Bruce Peninsula.\" \n\nThe Community was once Home to Bluewater Speedway a stock car track Located across the road from pipers glen golf club just out side of Port Elgin, today the track is no longer there, people from all over the area came to watch and to race \n\nHistorically significant people with connections to what is now Saugeen Shores include the following:\n\n\nSaugeen Shores Council includes a mayor, a deputy mayor, a vice deputy mayor and six councillors. In 2017, the Mayor was Mike Smith.\n\nThe major economic activities in this region are agriculture, small business, electricity generation and tourism. The town of Saugeen Shores has recently experienced a boom in development, with the addition of stores such as Walmart and Shopper's Drugmart, an \"Independent Grocer\", plus expansions of Canadian Tire, two Rexall Pharmaplus stores, one in Port Elgin, the other in Southampton.\n\nThe Town's Official Plan (2014) recognizes the value of a broad objective. \"Saugeen Shores will continue to be a leader in Bruce County in providing a place for individuals, families, retirees, culture, tourism, business and industrial opportunities.\"\n\nA new Saugeen Shores' new Economic Development Advisory Committee (EDAC) was formed in 2017 including council members from Port Elgin and Southampton, as well as citizens. The town offered this comment about the plans for the group: \"The Committee's set of responsibilities has yet to be finalized but among them will be to... make recommendations respecting implementation of the Community Improvement Plans (CIP), Streetscape plans and Facade Improvement Studies in both Port Elgin and Southampton including capital improvements... One of its most important roles will be to advise Council on the development of policy and programs related to economic vitality with a view to enhancing prosperity through coordinated public investment fostering private development and retention of existing jobs\". \n\nA major employer of the workforce living in Saugeen Shores, the Bruce Nuclear Generating Station in Tiverton, Ontario, started a $13 billion refurbishment program in 2016 which will provide employment for many residents and maintain demand for other services. According to Bruce Power, this multi-year plan \"will generate between 1,500 and 2,500 jobs on site annually – and 18,000 across Ontario directly and indirectly – while injecting up to $4 billion annually into Ontario’s economy\".\n\nAgriculture is the longest standing economic practice in the region. Intensive livestock operations include beef and dairy, cattle and hogs. Over a third of Ontario's beef industry is based in Bruce County. Two-thirds of the land within Saugeen Shores is excellent for cash crops. Fresh produce grown locally is sold locally too.\n\nBeef and dairy farming are the primary agricultural activities with orchards, berries, and some large market gardens also in operation.\n\nSouthampton resembles a quaint village with a variety of retail stores, boutiques, restaurants, gift shops, and automotive garages. Port Elgin's main street features varied retail uses plus gift shops, restaurants, grocery stores, boutiques, and novelty shops.\n\nThe Port Elgin Business Park has land for industrial and commercial uses. Businesses already located here are in the transportation, fuel, technology, recreation and automotive sectors. The Municipal Offices, Community Complex, Police Department and Bruce County Library Headquarters are also here.\n\nSaugeen Shores and Ontario's energy sector have a long-standing relationship via the region's largest employer. Bruce Power, the licensed operator of the Bruce Nuclear Generating Station, forms the core of the municipality's economic base by providing highly skilled, well paid jobs. More than a third of its 3,500 employees reside in Saugeen Shores.\n\nThe long sandy beach attracts visitors who are primarily families; many rent or own cottages in the area. (Young singles tend to prefer Sauble Beach some 18 kilometers north of Southampton.) The entire Saugeen Shores beach of the Lake Huron shore faces west so it is famous for its beautiful fabulous sunsets on the water. \"Cottage Life\" magazine rated the area highly in its article \"10 Spectacular Places to Watch a Sunset in Ontario\": \"With clear skies, a dry atmosphere, and an unobstructed view of the skyline, many of the west-facing towns along the shores of Lake Huron have the perfect conditions for a breathtaking sunset.\"\n\nThe area also features Port Elgin's busy harbour, Southampton's serene Chantry Island, to the Saugeen river winding its way through the countryside of Saugeen Township. Summer residents are a longstanding feature of Saugeen Shores. In addition to cottages, the communities are also home to a number of trailer parks, hotels and two municipal tourist camps. The local population more than doubles during the summer, substantially benefitting local businesses. Highlights include the Chantry Island Imperial Lighthouse tours; the Bruce County Museum and Cultural Centre; walking, running, and cycling trails.\n\nThe Bruce County Museum & Cultural Centre provides displays about local history and in summer especially, offers adult and children's programming and special events. These are listed in the Shoreline Beacon community newspaper. The museum has been enlarged over the years. In addition to a settlers' cabin, the facility houses numerous historic artifacts from the area, genealogical records, county newspapers, photographs, and municipal documents.\n\nThe Chantry Island lighthouse in Southampton, now completely renovated, was completed in 1859, first lit on April 1, with Duncan McGregor Lambert as the first keeper. The tower and the keeper's home have been extensively renovated. From late-May to mid-September, tours of Chantry Island are available from only one company, reaching the island on a small boat that leaves from the ticket office by the fishing boat docks. The tower and the keeper's home have been extensively renovated but the island is a federal bird sanctuary and access is otherwise prohibited.\nThree other lighthouses have been designated under the federal Heritage Lighthouse Protection Act in 2012: McNab Point and both the Front and Rear Range lights at the Saugeen River Front.\n\nThe TripAdvisor travel web site's users who have visited Port Elgin recommend the nearby MacGregor Point Provincial Park, the Saugeen Rail Trail walking/cycling route, the Brucedale Conservation Area with small camp sites, and the several nearby golf courses.\n\nThe three top-rated attractions in Southampton according to TripAdvisor user reviews are the Southampton Board Walk (along the lakefront), the Bruce County Museum & Cultural Centre and the Southampton Art School and Gallery. The fourth on the list is the tour of Chantry Island Lighthouse. The site also recommends the canoeing and kayaking opportunities offered by Thorncrest Outfitters on the Saugeen River, the walking trail around Fairy Lake (downtown) and the various golf courses in the area.\n\nAfter the railways ceased to service the area, the tracks were removed and the beds were vacant and overgrown. According to the Saugeen RailTrail Association, the group of volunteers was formed in 1990 and convinced Port Elgin, Southampton and Saugeen Township to acquire sections of the then unused rail bed. Over the years, the bed has been developed as trails for walking and cycling. The trail connects Southampton and Port Elgin. The trail also connects to the 80 kilometre long Bruce County Trail Network which leads to towns such as Paisley, Walkerton, Mildmay and Kincardine.\n\nThe trailhead can be accessed at River Street in Port Elgin, a few blocks north of the town centre and east of Hwy 21. There are other access points in both towns, some with parking. The trail is not groomed for cross country skiing during the winter but is used frequently for that purpose. Maps of the trails are available on the web site of the Saugeen Railtrail Association.\n\nEducation is administered by the Bluewater District School Board. Schools in Saugeen Shores include École Port Elgin Saugeen Central School, Saugeen District Senior School, Northport Elementary School, St. Joseph School, and G.C. Huston.\n\nThe town's hospital is in Southampton, Saugeen Memorial. Many physicians' practices are at the Saugeen Shores Medical Building and the Dr Earl Health Centre. The hospital is part of the Grey Bruce Health Services' network of hospitals in northern Bruce and in Grey County. Facilities include 16 beds, a 24-hour emergency department, surgery, acute medical care and outpatient services. According to the local Health Care Services, other facilities include:\n\n\nThe hospital also houses other community health providers. Day surgery services are offered and include ear, nose and throat surgery.\n\nSaugeen Shores has two retirement and assisted living facilities, and one nursing home.\nLong Term Care programs are also available to provide in home support allowing elderly residents to live at home as long as possible.\n\nThe Town of Saugeen Shores includes senior service groups and clubs as well as aid providers and senior homes that offer full services. Relevant providers include Home and Community Support Services Grey Bruce, two assisted living residences, the Hampton Court Retirement Lodge (Southampton) and Kingsway Arms at Elgin Lodge (Port Elgin) and Southampton Care Centre long term care home. Social and other services for seniors are available at PARC 55+ (Port Elgin) and Chantry Senior Centre (Southampton).\n\nAs well, the Saugeen Shores Chamber of Commerce webpage offers a full listing of seniors' leisure groups and clubs.\n\nNineteen churches across a large area, representing most major denominations, serve the municipality's spiritual needs.\n\nSaugeen Shores has one mosque at the Maple Square Mall in Port Elgin.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2009977", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2009977", "title": "LaSalle County Nuclear Generating Station", "text": "LaSalle County Nuclear Generating Station\n\nLaSalle County Nuclear Generating Station, located southeast of Ottawa, Illinois serves Chicago and northern Illinois with electricity. The plant is owned and operated by the Exelon Corporation. Its Units 1 and 2 began commercial operation in August 1982 and April 1984, respectively.\n\nIt has two General Electric boiling water reactors. LaSalle's Unit 1 and Unit 2 together produce 2,320 megawatts, which is enough electricity for the needs of 2.3 million American homes.\nInstead of cooling towers, the station has a man-made cooling lake, which is also a popular fishery — LaSalle Lake State Fish and Wildlife Area — managed by the Illinois Department of Natural Resources.\n\nThe Nuclear Regulatory Commission defines two emergency planning zones around nuclear power plants: a plume exposure pathway zone with a radius of , concerned primarily with exposure to, and inhalation of, airborne radioactive contamination, and an ingestion pathway zone of about , concerned primarily with ingestion of food and liquid contaminated by radioactivity.\n\nThe 2010 U.S. population within of LaSalle was 17,643, an increase of 7.1 percent in a decade, according to an analysis of U.S. Census data for msnbc.com. The 2010 U.S. population within was 1,902,775, an increase of 22.6 percent since 2000. Cities within 50 miles include Joliet (34 miles to city center).\n\nOn February 20, 2006, a \"site area emergency\" was declared at the plant at 12:28 AM. This was the first SAE declared at a US nuclear plant since 1991. Workers were shutting down Unit 1 for refueling when the plant's turbine control system malfunctioned, SCRAMing the reactor. The reactor had been operating at 6 percent power output at the time. Plant instruments indicated three of 185 control rods used to shut down the reactor were not fully inserted triggering the emergency declaration. After a reset, the plant's instruments indicated that only one control rod was not fully inserted, not three. The emergency ended at 4:27 AM with no damage or release of radioactivity.\n\nPost trip evaluations have confirmed that all control rods were fully inserted within four minutes of the reactor SCRAM. A review indicates the problem was with the indication sensors, and that all control rods were fully inserted immediately at the time of the reactor scram. Follow-up evaluations also demonstrated that even if the three subject control rods remained fully withdrawn in a cold shutdown condition, the reactor would have remained adequately shutdown.\n\nThe Nuclear Regulatory Commission's estimate of the risk each year of an earthquake intense enough to cause core damage to the reactor at LaSalle was 1 in 357,143, according to an NRC study published in August 2010.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2009982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2009982", "title": "Lisa Ling", "text": "Lisa Ling\n\nLisa J. Ling (born August 30, 1973) is an American journalist, television presenter, and author. She is currently the host of \"This Is Life with Lisa Ling\" on CNN. She is the former host of \"Our America with Lisa Ling\" on OWN: The Oprah Winfrey Network, former co-host of ABC's \"The View\" (from 1999–2002), host of \"National Geographic Explorer\", reporter on Channel One News, and special correspondent for \"The Oprah Winfrey Show\" and CNN. She was the host of reality television show \"The Job\". Ling is the older sister of journalist Laura Ling.\n\nLing was born in Sacramento, California. Her mother, Mary Mei-yan (née Wang), is a Taiwanese immigrant from Tainan, Taiwan, and formerly served as the head of the Los Angeles office of the Formosan Association for Public Affairs. Ling's father, Chung Teh \"Douglas\" Ling, is a Chinese immigrant, born in Hong Kong in 1937. Her paternal grandmother was born on Labuan, now in modern-day Malaysia. Her paternal grandfather, who was from Guangzhou, Guangdong, was one of the first Chinese students allowed to study in the United States in the 1930s. He received his graduate degree from New York University and an M.B.A degree from University of Colorado. He struggled to find a job in the United States and eventually opened the first Chinese restaurant in Folsom, California.\n\nLing's parents divorced when she was seven years old. Following the divorce, she and her sister were raised in Carmichael, California, a city outside of Sacramento, by their father. Ling aspired to become a journalist and idolized Connie Chung.\n\nLing was educated at Del Campo High School in Fair Oaks, California in 1991, followed by the University of Southern California. Ling chose to leave USC before graduating, entering the professional sphere at a young age as a reporter for Channel One News, and electing to \"find her education by visiting different countries instead.\" Speaking to USC students in 2016, Ling explained, \"I think traveling is the best education. If there's one takeaway here tonight, it's to travel … I'm convinced that you are better, smarter, more marketable as a job candidate if you travel.\" She is fluent in Spanish.\n\nLing started in television when she was chosen as one of the four hosts of \"Scratch\", a nationally syndicated teen magazine show based in Sacramento. At 18, she joined Channel One News as one of their youngest reporters and anchors. Among her roles was war correspondent, including assignments in Iraq and Afghanistan. She won several awards for her reporting and documentaries.\n\nShe joined \"The View\" on August 2, 1999 after beating out a reported 12,000 hopefuls who had auditioned to replace Debbie Matenopoulos, but left the show after three and a half years towards the end of 2002 to go back to international reporting. She was responsible for proposing segments like investing for women, and, according to Ling, her goal was to say one thing each day that would make people think, whether it made them cheer or made them throw things at their TV. She drew both fire and praise for her comments after the September 11, 2001 attacks, in which she said, \"What happened to the United States was a catastrophic event and the worst terrorist attack in human history. Yet maybe before we seek revenge, we should ask the question – why should anyone want to make such an attack on the U.S.?\"\n\nLing accepted an offer to host \"National Geographic Ultimate Explorer.\" In 2005, the show moved to the National Geographic Channel and returned to its original name, \"National Geographic Explorer\". Ling has covered the drug war in Colombia, investigated the notorious MS-13 gang, and explored the culture of U.S. prisons. She also was allowed to travel into North Korea as part of a medical missionary group, where she and a film team were able to document a rare look into North Korea. The trip was documented in the 2007 National Geographic documentary \"Inside North Korea\".\n\nShe then became a special correspondent for \"The Oprah Winfrey Show\" which has featured many of Ling's investigative pieces, including a report on North Korea. Ling's title is \"Oprah Show Investigative Reporter.\" She also has reported on bride burning in India, gang rape in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, the Lord's Resistance Army in Uganda, child trafficking in Ghana, under cover investigation of Pennsylvanian puppy mills with Main Line Animal Rescue, the immediate aftermath of the hurricane in New Orleans, and the April 2007 Virginia Tech Massacre.\n\nIn December 2008, CNN's award-winning documentary \"Planet in Peril\" featured Ling in the series' second installment, called \"Battlelines\". She was a correspondent that tracked excessive shark fishing in Costa Rica, elephant poaching in Chad, and gave people an inside look at the battle for the control over oil in Nigeria. In 2010 Ling co-founded the website SecretSocietyOfWomen.com, a forum for women where they can share their problems anonymously.\n\nOn February 16, 2011, her show \"Our America with Lisa Ling\" premiered on OWN: The Oprah Winfrey Network. It ran for five straight seasons.\n\nOn April 14, 2014, CNN announced that Ling will host a new documentary series, \"This is Life with Lisa Ling\", to join its primetime lineup. The show premiered on September 28, 2014.\n\nOn January 3, 2007, Ling announced her engagement to radiation oncologist Paul Song. They married on May 26, 2007, in Los Angeles, California. The wedding party included guests such as Connie Chung, one of Lisa's personal heroes, and actresses Kelly Hu and Diane Farr. On June 7, 2009, she was awarded an honorary doctorate from National University, after giving the commencement speech there. In October 2012 Ling announced on Anderson Cooper's talk show that she and her husband were expecting their first child, a baby girl. She gave birth to a daughter named Jett Ling Song on March 8, 2013. She gave birth to a second child, a daughter named Ray Ling Song on June 6, 2016. The family resides in Santa Monica, California.\n\nHer younger sister, Laura Ling, also a journalist, was managing editor of Vanguard at Current TV and currently a host and reporter on E! Network. In March 2009 Laura and her colleague Euna Lee were detained by North Korea for illegal entry into the country. They had been attempting to film refugees along the border with China. In June, they were sentenced to 12 years in a labor prison for illegal entry into North Korea, and unspecified hostile acts. North Korea released Laura and Euna on August 4, 2009 after a visit from former U.S. President Bill Clinton. Lisa and Laura Ling went on to collaborate on a book, \"Somewhere Inside: One Sister's Captivity in North Korea and the Other's Fight to Bring Her Home\", published in May 2010.\n\nLisa Ling identifies herself as a \"die-hard feminist\".\n\nShe was diagnosed with attention deficit disorder.\n\n"}
{"id": "2009986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2009986", "title": "Hans Georg Dehmelt", "text": "Hans Georg Dehmelt\n\nHans Georg Dehmelt (9 September 1922 – 7 March 2017) was a German and American physicist, who was awarded a Nobel Prize in Physics in 1989, for co-developing the ion trap technique (Penning trap) with Wolfgang Paul, for which they shared one-half of the prize (the other half of the Prize in that year was awarded to Norman Foster Ramsey). Their technique was used for high precision measurement of the electron magnetic moment.\n\nAt the age of ten Dehmelt enrolled in the Berlinisches Gymnasium zum Grauen Kloster, a Latin school in Berlin, where he was admitted on a scholarship. After graduating in 1940, he volunteered for service in the German Army, which ordered him to attend the University of Breslau to study physics in 1943. After a year of study he returned to army service and was captured during the Battle of the Bulge.\n\nAfter his release from an American prisoner of war camp in 1946, Dehmelt returned to his study of physics at the University of Göttingen, where he supported himself by repairing and bartering old, pre-war radio sets. He completed his master's thesis in 1948 and received his PhD in 1950, both from the University of Göttingen. He was then invited to Duke University as a postdoctoral associate, emigrating in 1952. Dehmelt became an assistant professor at the University of Washington in Seattle, Washington in 1955, an associate professor in 1958, and a full professor in 1961.\n\nIn 1955 he built his first electron impact tube in George Volkoff's laboratory at the University of British Columbia and experimented on paramagnetic resonances in polarized atoms and free electrons. In the 1960s, Dehmelt and his students worked on spectroscopy of hydrogen and helium ions. The electron was finally isolated in 1973 with David Wineland, who continued work on trapped ions at NIST.\n\nHe created the first geonium atom in 1976, which he then used to measure precise magnetic moments of the electron and positron with R. S. Van Dyck into the 1980s, work that led to his Nobel prize. In 1979 Dehmelt led a team that took the first photo of a single atom. He continued work on ion traps at the University of Washington, until his retirement in October 2002.\n\nIn May 2010, he was honoured as one of Washington's Nobel laureates by Crown Princess Victoria of Sweden at a special event in Seattle.\n\nHe was married to Irmgard Lassow, now deceased, and the couple had a son, Gerd, also deceased. In 1989 Dehmelt married Diana Dundore, a physician.\n\nDehmelt died on March 7, 2017 in Seattle, Washington, aged 94.\n\n\nSources\n\n"}
{"id": "2010001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010001", "title": "Mike Comrie", "text": "Mike Comrie\n\nMichael William Comrie (born September 11, 1980) is a Canadian former professional ice hockey player. During his 13-year National Hockey League (NHL) career he played with the Edmonton Oilers, Philadelphia Flyers, Phoenix Coyotes, Ottawa Senators, New York Islanders, and the Pittsburgh Penguins. He retired in early 2012 after undergoing hip surgery for the third time.\n\nMike Comrie was born and raised in Edmonton, Alberta, and attended Jasper Place High School. As a youth, he played in the 1993 Quebec International Pee-Wee Hockey Tournament with a minor ice hockey team from the Whitemud region of Edmonton, Alberta. He was drafted in the third round, ninety-first overall, in the 1999 NHL Entry Draft by his hometown Edmonton Oilers out of the University of Michigan.\n\nComrie left the Western Hockey League (WHL)'s Kootenay Ice midway through the 2000–01 season, signing an incentive-laden $10-million three-year deal with the Oilers, which, when all achievable bonuses were included, was well above the league maximum for the base salaries of 2001 draftees of $1.13 million a year. Although Comrie was a free agent as a result of playing one year of major junior hockey as an overage player after leaving college (due to a loophole established by Mike Van Ryn), entry-level salary restrictions still applied to Comrie's contract, with free-agent status allowing Comrie to sign with any team he desired. In Edmonton Comrie instantly become a fan favourite and hometown hero. He was an offensive threat during his first couple seasons with the team, tallying a total of 133 points in 192 games from 2001 to 2003.\n\nAfter a lacklustre training camp in the pre-season Comrie's status as local hero in Edmonton started to change dramatically, after he elected to hold out in a contract dispute for more than 30 games into the 2003–04 season. The Oilers then-General Manager, Kevin Lowe, was reportedly willing to trade Comrie to the Anaheim Ducks for Corey Perry and a first round draft pick, but within that deal sought to have Comrie reimburse the Oilers $2.5 million, which was part of the bonus money he earned from his entry-level contract. After this deal fell through, Comrie was dealt to the Philadelphia Flyers in December 2003, for Jeff Woywitka, a first round selection in 2004 (Rob Schremp), and a third round selection in 2005 (Danny Syvret).\n\nComrie played only 21 games for Philadelphia before being traded to the Phoenix Coyotes for Sean Burke, Branko Radivojevic, and the rights to Ben Eager.\n\nDuring the 2004–05 NHL lockout, he signed with Färjestad BK of the Elitserien and played ten games with them, before leaving in December 2004. Following an agreement made in July 2005, between the NHL and NHLPA members to resume hockey operations and play, Comrie would return to the Coyotes for the 2005–06 NHL season, where he would record his second 30-goal season in the NHL. The Coyotes would then re-sign Comrie to a new, one-year contract worth $3 million, on August 4, 2006.\n\nOn January 3, 2007, Comrie was traded to the Ottawa Senators in exchange for Senators prospect Alexei Kaigorodov.\n\nComrie scored his first goal for the Senators versus the Boston Bruins on January 9, 2007 at Scotiabank Place in Ottawa, Ontario. Whenever Comrie scored a goal at Scotiabank Place, his goal song was \"Black Gloves\" by the Belgian band Goose. He helped Ottawa throughout the playoffs despite having an injured shoulder that required local anesthetic to numb the pain, this prevented him from reaching down to tie his skates. The Senators made it to the Stanley Cup Finals, losing to the Anaheim Ducks, in a 4–1 series decision. Prior to the loss, the Senators eliminated the Pittsburgh Penguins, New Jersey Devils, and Buffalo Sabres all in five games.\n\nOn July 5, 2007, Mike Comrie signed a one-year contract worth $3.375 million with the New York Islanders as an unrestricted free agent. Before the trade deadline on February 26, 2008, the New York Islanders re-signed Comrie to a new one-year contract worth $4 million. Comrie would be traded back to the Senators on February 20, 2009, with Chris Campoli, in exchange for Dean McAmmond and a San Jose Sharks 2009 first round draft pick.\n\nOn September 10, 2009, Mike Comrie signed a one-year contract worth $1.125 million with the team he began his NHL career with, returning to the Edmonton Oilers after six years, for their upcoming 2009–10 NHL season. Comrie chose to wear No. 91 (his overall draft selection number), as his familiar jersey No. 89 (which he wore during his first go-round with the team), was taken by Sam Gagner.\n\nComrie made his return to Edmonton a night to remember, in a 4–0 pre-season win over the Florida Panthers, on September 18, 2009. Comrie assisted on all four of the goals scored and registered a fight, squaring off with the Panthers' Eric Himelfarb, to which Comrie received a standing ovation from the Rexall Place crowd, who promptly chanted his name as he took his place inside the penalty box.\n\nOn November 17, Comrie was placed on the NHL long term injury reserve list with mononucleosis and was expected to be out until late January. He had 5 goals and 8 points, in 16 games. Comrie would make his return to the Oilers line-up on February 1, 2010, recording an assist in a 4–2 victory over the Carolina Hurricanes. He finished out the rest of the season tallying 13 goals and 21 points, in 43 games.\n\nMike Comrie became an unrestricted free agent on July 1, 2010, with the Oilers opting not to re-sign him for the 2010–11 season.\n\nOn September 3, 2010, Mike Comrie signed a one-year contract worth $500,000 with the Pittsburgh Penguins, joining the franchise that drafted his uncle Fred, in 1973. On September 22, 2010, Comrie scored the very first goal inside of the new Consol Energy Center, 81 seconds into the Penguins' 5-1 exhibition game victory over the Detroit Red Wings. Due to a nagging hip injury, Comrie was sidelined for much of the regular season. He scored his first goal as a Penguin during their 82nd and final game of the season, on an empty Atlanta Thrashers net. It was the last game in Thrashers franchise history before the team relocated to Winnipeg in the off season.\n\nAfter undergoing hip surgery for the third time, Comrie retired from hockey on February 13, 2012.\n\nComrie's father, Bill, and his uncles, Fred and John, are the founders of The Brick furniture company, which was sold in 2012 for $700 million. Comrie's mother, Theresa, died of cancer in 1990. Comrie has two older siblings; a sister, Cathy, and a brother, Paul, who played with the Oilers briefly, before Mike was drafted by them. Comrie also has two hockey playing younger half-brothers from his father's second marriage, Eric, a goaltender who was selected by the Winnipeg Jets in the 2013 NHL Entry Draft and Ty, who plays center.\n\nComrie began dating American actress/singer Hilary Duff in the summer of 2007. The couple announced their engagement in February 2010, and married on August 14, 2010 in Santa Barbara. They have a son, Luca Cruz Comrie born March 20, 2012. On January 10, 2014, the couple announced their separation. In February 2015, Duff filed for divorce from Comrie, citing irreconcilable differences and sought primary custody of their son. The divorce was finalized in February 2016.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2010004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010004", "title": "Cannington, Ontario", "text": "Cannington, Ontario\n\nCannington is a community located in Brock Township, Durham Region, Ontario, Canada. The town is on the Beaver River.\n\nOriginally part of the original Brock Township, Cannington was first settled in 1833. It was originally known as McCaskill's Mills after a local mill-owning family. In 1849, a post office was opened, at which point the settlement was renamed Cannington after former British foreign secretary and Prime Minister George Canning (1770–1827). Cannington separated from Brock Township in 1878 when it was incorporated as a Village.\n\nWhen Durham Region was created in 1974, Cannington was amalgamated with the original Brock Township, Thorah Township and the Village of Beaverton to create the newly expanded Township of Brock. In 1987 there was a fire that destroyed dozens of homes through the town.\n\nThe community serves as a service centre for the surrounding rural area. It is home to the municipal offices of Brock Township, as well as a secondary school, Brock High School, and an elementary school, McCaskill's Mills Public School, which was originally 2 separate schools, H.W. Knight Public School, and Cannington Public School. The 2 schools later amalgamated, forming McCaskill's Mills Public School, named after the original town name, which was opened in 2006. The school offers a French Immersion Program, however the high school does not. French Immersion students are bused to Port Perry High School, which offers the program. The post office on Cameron St. W. services locals with lock boxes and two rural routes. There are multiple restaurants such as Mays Restaurant, Georgios and The Locker.\n\nCannington was the adopted hometown of guitarist Don Ross for twelve years.\n\nCBC TV presenter Ralph Benmergui lived in Cannington in the late 1980s and early 1990s.\n\nCannington was home to the author Timothy Findley, who wrote a memoir, \"From Stone Orchard\", about his experiences living at a farm on the outskirts of Cannington. McCaskill's Mills features as a setting in his 1995 novel \"The Piano Man's Daughter\". After Findley moved to France due to declining health, dancer Rex Harrington purchased Stone Orchard.\n\nCannington is also the birthplace of Rick MacLeish (1950–2016), an NHL hockey player who starred with the Philadelphia Flyers in the 1970s and 1980s.\n\nArtist Robert Holmes (1861–1930) was an artist known for his watercolour depictions of wildflowers. He also taught at Upper Canada College, the Central Ontario School of Art and Design and its successor, the Ontario College of Art & Design. Some of his works can be seen in the Cannington Historical Society's Museum in the upper part of MacLeod Park.\n\n"}
{"id": "2010007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010007", "title": "Spy Smasher", "text": "Spy Smasher\n\nSpy Smasher is the name of two fictional characters appearing in comics published by Fawcett and DC Comics. The first is a superhero that was formerly owned and published by Fawcett Comics. The second is a female anti-terrorism government agent often featured as an antagonist of the vigilante team Birds of Prey.\n\nSimilar to Batman and the Blue Beetle (Ted Kord), Spy Smasher (secretly the \"wealthy Virginia sportsman\" Alan Armstrong) is a master detective, equipped with a number of gadgets and a specialized vehicle, the \"Gyrosub\", which was a combination of an airplane, an automobile, and a submarine. Created by Bill Parker and C. C. Beck, Spy Smasher was introduced in \"Whiz Comics\" #2 (February 1940). Alongside Captain Marvel, Spy Smasher became one of the magazine's most popular characters. His perpetual enemy was the Mask, the mastermind of a deadly spy ring. He also fought the America-Smasher, the Angel and the Blitzys.\n\nIn \"Whiz Comics\" #16-18, Spy Smasher was briefly brainwashed by the Mask to fight Captain Marvel, but finally Captain Marvel was able to restore his mind.\n\nWith the end of World War II and the Japanese surrender in August 1945, Spy Smasher was left without a battle to fight. His name was changed to Crime Smasher in \"Whiz Comics\" #76 (July 1946), and he soon fell out of favor. One issue of \"Crime Smasher\" was published in 1948, and then the character disappeared.\n\nIn 1953, Fawcett ceased publication of all superhero comics, after settling a lawsuit against DC Comics over Captain Marvel being an infringement on the copyright of Superman, agreeing to cease publishing Captain Marvel.\n\nAfter DC Comics obtained the rights to the Fawcett characters in 1972, Spy Smasher began appearing irregularly in DC Comics, presented as one of the heroes of Earth-S prior to \"Crisis on Infinite Earths\". He first appeared in Crisis in Eternity, as a member of the Squadron of Justice when King Kull had captured Shazam and the Elders, and teamed up with other villains to wipe out life on all three Earths, and defeated Ibac on Earth-Two as he attacked Atlantis by tricking him into saying 'I back down from no-one,' defeating him as saying his name causes him to turn into a normal man and vice versa. The character was used prominently in the 1990s series \"The Power of Shazam!\", in which aged Alan Armstrong often recounts his adventures as Spy Smasher. \"Power of Shazam!\" #24 was dedicated to Armstrong's recounting of a Cold War-era mission he undertook with an archaeologist named C.C. Batson to Batson's children, Billy (alter-ego of Captain Marvel) and Mary (alter-ego of Mary Marvel).\n\nWhile Alan was still Spy Smasher in that story, a crossover between \"Power of Shazam\" and \"Starman\" in 1997 included Jack Knight running over the history of the Fawcett City heroes, and mentioning that he thought Spy Smasher became Crime Smasher after the war but was unsure.\n\nAC Comics has published reprints of some Golden Age Spy Smasher stories that have lapsed into the public domain. The character also made a cameo appearance in the inaugural issue of Image Comics' Next Issue Project.\n\nSpy Smasher is an intelligent scientist and inventor, a master detective and a skilled hand-to-hand combatant. He also possessed a number of gadgets and a specialized vehicle.\n\nA new Spy Smasher, government agent Katarina Armstrong, created by Gail Simone, first appears in \"Birds of Prey\" #100 (January 2007). She is a high-ranking anti-terrorism agent who is affiliated with several American, Commonwealth, and United Nations agencies (see table). Her relation to Alan Armstrong has not been revealed, though her secret identity and costume seem clearly inspired by him. She is depicted in her first appearances as having a domineering demeanor, and is not hesitant to kill or order deaths in order to complete a mission. Having forced Oracle to work for her, she plans to take over the Birds of Prey organization and usurp Oracle's position. Issue #103 indicates that Katarina and Oracle were friends in college. At some point prior to Katarina's debut, they became rivals. That issue shows a flashback of both women competing in a race, with Katarina beating Barbara by cheating but immediately confessing to the judges after she had won.\n\nKatarina accompanies the Birds on a mission in Russia, and in a conflict with the Secret Six, Katarina finds her equal marksman in Deadshot. Katarina assumes leadership of the Birds from Oracle and fires Lady Blackhawk for dissent. Back at Oracle's base, she is challenged to a fight by Oracle, who then manages to give Katarina a proper beating. She is humiliated when she faces the united front of every single one of Barbara's living former agents. Spy Smasher leaves disgraced after being threatened by Black Canary, but before doing so also gives Oracle information on Misfit's background.\n\nIt was later mentioned in \"Checkmate\" #16 by Sasha Bordeaux that Josephine Tautin had \"drop-kicked her down a deep, dark hole. Something she quite enjoyed doing, incidentally.\" \"Checkmate\" #18 has Sasha personally apologising to Barbara for Katarina's actions.\n\nIn the aftermath of \"Final Crisis\", Katarina is seen being held prisoner by the Global Peace Agency. The GPA agents apparently erase all of her memories by \"resetting\" her brain, telling Cameron Chase that Katarina can hear their conversations but can no longer process what the sounds mean. Her current fate is unknown, though it is implied that she was returned to normal, as with many other characters in the story, after Nemesis and Chase use the cosmic treadmill.\n\nDuring the events of \"Brightest Day\", an unknown villain begins targeting the members of the Birds of Prey. Oracle initially muses that it could be Katarina's doing, as she has the means and motive to harm the Birds, but it is eventually revealed to be the work of the White Canary.\n\nSpy Smasher is eventually revealed to be alive and well when she recruits Bane and his new team of mercenaries (consisting of himself, Jeannette, Lady Vic, King Shark, Dwarfstar and Giganta) to invade and claim Skartaris in the name of the U.S.\n\nCreator Gail Simone said on Katarina, \"I felt the DCU needed a Jack Bauer. In these early issues, she looks like a pointed allegory to the abuse of powers by the government, but she doesn’t see it that way, and she’s a lot more complex than that. It’d be a cheat to simply make her evil and completely hate-able, I think. She’s got some levels. And she knows Babs’ weaknesses. I like her. She’s very very dark... Even above [Barbara and Katarina's] competitive natures, there is a perfectly valid and honest ideological difference of opinion there. Babs believes what she’s doing is necessary, Katarina believes what Babs is doing is treason. They actually like each other, but like brothers fighting on opposite sides of the Civil War, the distance between them is so vast and clearly drawn that they can’t even hope to reconcile. They were friends; their ideals make them bitter enemies.\"\n\nSpy Smasher is an expert markswoman and a skilled hand to hand combatant on a similar level to Deadshot. She claims to be of higher political authority than anyone in the United States, even the President, but is later outranked in an issue of \"Checkmate\" by Sasha Bordeaux. Although she explicitly states that her job is to kill people, specifically terrorists and those who aim to harm the United States, she has yet to be directly depicted as taking a life.\n\nThe Alan Armstrong Spy Smasher made a brief appearance in \"Justice League Unlimited\" episode \"Patriot Act\" voiced by Nathan Fillion who remained uncredited. He is seen in a flashback sequence where he prevented the creation of Captain Nazi and confiscating the unstable serum that would be used later in the episode.\n\nIn 1942, Spy Smasher was adapted into a popular 12-part film serial directed by William Witney for Republic Pictures. \"Spy Smasher\" featured actor Kane Richmond in a dual role, as both the title character (an American freelance agent in Nazi-occupied France who was originally believed to have been killed in a plane crash) and his identical twin brother, and Marguerite Chapman as the brother's imperiled fiancée, Eve Corby. Edited down to 100 minutes in 1966 the serial was re-released for television under the title \"Spy Smasher Returns\".\n\nSpy Smasher will appear in the video game DC Universe Online.\n\n"}
{"id": "2010009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010009", "title": "Hjemkomst Center", "text": "Hjemkomst Center\n\nThe Heritage Hjemkomst Interpretive Center, commonly known as the Hjemkomst Center, is a museum in Moorhead, Minnesota. Hjemkomst Center first opened in 1985 and serves as a home to \"Hjemkomst\" Viking Ship, Hopperstad Stave Church replica, quarterly museum exhibits, and county archives. In 2009, the Clay County Historical Society (which was founded in 1932) and the Heritage Hjemkomst Interpretive Center merged to form the Historical and Cultural Society of Clay County.\n\n\"Hjemkomst\", which means \"Homecoming\" in Norwegian, is a replica Viking ship that is permanently housed in the center of the museum. The ship is a full-scale replica of the Gokstad Viking ship that was discovered in Norway in 1880. The idea for building \"Hjemkomst\" was that of Robert Asp (1923–1980), a guidance counselor at Moorhead Junior High School. Construction on \"Hjemkomst\" began in 1974 at the Leslie Welter Potato Warehouse in Hawley, Minnesota. The warehouse site was then transformed into the Hawley Shipyard during the construction. That same year, Asp became diagnosed with leukemia; however he still continued to build the ship; he had help from other volunteers.\n\nIn July 1980 the Hawley Shipyard was torn down for the removal and christening of the completed ship. \"Hjemkomst\" was shipped overnight to Duluth, Minnesota, on August 5, 1980. Asp held the rank as captain during the ship's maiden voyage throughout Lake Superior until his death four months later on December 27, 1980.\nIn May 1982, Asp's three sons and daughter along with eight members of \"Hjemkomst\" crew decided to sail \"Hjemkomst\" to Norway, which was Asp's original dream. The ship departed New York City on June 8, 1982 and arrived in Bergen, Norway 19 July and on August 9, 1982 the ship arrived in Oslo. The ship stayed in Oslo for a year until it was transported back to Minnesota on MV \"Brunto\".\n\nThe Hopperstad Stave Church Replica is a replica of a Norwegian stave church located on the grounds of the Hjemkomst Center. The church was built in 1998 by Guy Paulson and was constructed of cedar, redwood, and pine. It is a full-scale replica of the 12th Century Hopperstad Stave Church in Vik, Norway. The church serves as a reminder of the Scandinavian heritage in the Red River Valley.\n\n"}
{"id": "2010013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010013", "title": "Navicular syndrome", "text": "Navicular syndrome\n\nNavicular syndrome, often called navicular disease, is a syndrome of lameness problems in horses. It most commonly describes an inflammation or degeneration of the navicular bone and its surrounding tissues, usually on the front feet. It can lead to significant and even disabling lameness.\n\nKnowledge of equine forelimb anatomy is especially useful for understanding navicular syndrome. The navicular bone lies behind the coffin bone and under the small pastern bone. The deep digital flexor (DDF) tendon runs down the back of the cannon and soft tissue in that area and under the navicular bone before attaching to the back of the coffin bone. The DDF tendon flexes the coffin joint, and the navicular bone acts as a fulcrum that the DDF tendon runs over.\n\nThe navicular bone is supported by several ligaments above, below, and on the side. One of these ligaments is the impar ligament, which attaches the navicular bone to the coffin bone (distal phalanx). Cartilage lies between the navicular bone and the coffin joint, as well as between the navicular bone and the DDF tendon. The navicular bursa - a small sac that protects the DDF and navicular bone from abrasion as the tendon slides over the area - lies between the navicular bone and the DDF tendon.\n\nThere is no single known cause of navicular syndrome, although there are many theories, and several primary factors.\n\nThe first factor is compression of the navicular bone under the DDF tendon and the back of the small pastern bone. Repeated compression in this area can cause cartilage degeneration, with the cartilage flattening and gradually becoming less springy and shock-absorbing. It may also begin to erode. Cartilage degeneration is common in navicular horses, usually along the flexor surface. This finding, and the associated biochemical changes, have led some researchers to conclude that there are elements in navicular disease common to osteoarthritis, and to suggest similar therapeutic regimes.\n\nCartilage erosion may progress to the point that the bone underneath will become exposed. With the cartilage no longer present to protect it, the navicular bursa and DDF tendon may become damaged by the constant rubbing against the navicular bone. Navicular bursitis (inflammation of the navicular bursa) may occur, even if cartilage damage is not severe. This is probably due to the friction between the navicular bone and the DDF tendon from compression.\n\nConstant compression can also increase the bone density directly under the cartilage surfaces, especially on the flexor side. This tends to make the bone more brittle, and thus more likely to break.\n\nAnother main factor is the tension placed on the ligaments that support the navicular bone. Some experts believe that the degenerative process begins with excess tension placed on these ligaments, causing strain and inflammation. Inflammation from strain of the impar ligament can decrease blood flow to and from the navicular bone, as the major blood vessels supplying the bone run up and down this area. If the ligament continues to be strained, it can thicken and permanently reduce blood flow to the navicular bone.\n\nBecause veins are more easily compressed than arteries, blood flow to the bone would be less obstructed than blood flow from the bone. This would cause a buildup of pressure within the navicular bone. The navicular bone, in response to both the increased pressure and overall decreased blood supply, would absorb mineral from its center.\n\nExcess tension can also cause exostoses where the ligaments attach to the navicular bone, giving the bone a \"canoe\" shape. If tension is extreme, the ligaments may actually tear.\n\nRecent research has found correlations between \"toe-first landing\" of the hooves and navicular problems, due to excessive strain put on the deep digital flexor tendon, as a consequence of misalignment of the lower joints.\nToe-first landing, usually seen as a consequence of navicular disease, may actually be a cause or at least a contributing factor to the onset of tendon inflammation and bone modifications.\n\nToe-first landing is often caused by frog and heel overtrimming, long toes, and/or poor shoeing.\n\nCertain conformational defects may contribute to navicular syndrome, especially defects that promote concussion. These include upright pasterns, small feet, narrow and upright feet, significant downhill build (commonly seen in American Quarter Horses), and long toes with low heels (commonly seen in Thoroughbreds).\n\nThe long toe, low heel conformation places constant stress on the navicular bone, even as the horse is standing. Upright feet increase concussion, especially in the heel region of the hoof where the navicular bone is located. Excess concussion cannot be absorbed as well by the structures designed to do so (the frog, heels, and digital cushion), so more impact is transmitted to the structures within the foot.\n\nPoor hoof shape is usually inherited, although poor shoeing and trimming can contribute to these shapes.\n\nWith the long toe, low heel conformation can come contracted heels (narrowing of the heel) which further compresses the navicular bone along with sheared heels adding more stress to the tendons and navicular bones.\n\nPoor trimming, shoe selection, or inappropriate shoe attachment are well-known causes of lameness, and navicular disease is fairly common in the modern-day domesticated horse. However, it is also seen in wild horse populations. Those who advocate \"barefoot trimming\" of domestic horses propose that in nature, a horse's hoof is designed to expand and contract as the horse moves. This expanding and contracting acts as an auxiliary blood pump, and aids the circulation of blood to the lower extremities. When an inflexible metal shoe is improperly attached to the hoof, the hoof can no longer work as designed, and blood flow is inhibited. However, evidence of navicular degeneration has been established in the fossil record of early horses. Mary Thompson, a vertebrate paleontologist at Idaho Museum of Natural History, has found evidence in many species of early horses and concludes, \"The results of this study strongly suggest that man’s intervention (whether by increased usage or improper breeding practices) may not be the sole cause of the syndrome\", although she cautions that her results are preliminary.\n\nWorking on steep hills, galloping, and jumping all contribute to navicular syndrome, as they place greater stress on the DDF tendons, and may cause overextension of the pastern and coffin joints.\n\nRegular exercise on hard or irregular ground increases concussion on the hoof, thus increasing the risk of navicular syndrome.\n\nIt is possible that standing can also increase the chance of navicular disease (such as a horse that spends most of the day in a stall with little turnout, as with some racehorses and show horses). Blood flow to the hoof decreases when the horse is not in motion. The horse is also constantly applying pressure to the navicular bones (which is intermittent as the horse moves).\n\nHorses with a high weight-to-foot-size ratio may have an increased chance of exhibiting symptoms of navicular syndrome, since the relative load on the foot increases. This might explain why the syndrome is seen more frequently in Thoroughbreds, American Quarter Horses, and Warmbloods as opposed to ponies and Arabians.\n\nHeel pain is very common in horses with navicular syndrome. Lameness may begin as mild and intermittent, and progress to severe. This may be due to strain and inflammation of the ligaments supporting the navicular bone, reduced blood flow and increased pressure within the hoof, damage to the navicular bursa or DDF tendon, or from cartilage erosion.\n\nAffected horses display a \"tiptoe\" gait - trying to walk on the toes due to heel pain. They may stumble frequently. The lameness may switch from one leg to another, and may not be consistent. Lameness usually occurs in both front feet, although one foot may be more sore than the other.\n\nLameness is usually mild (1–2 on a scale of 5). It can be made worse when the horse is worked on a hard surface or on a circle.\n\nAfter several months of pain, the feet may begin to change shape, especially the foot that has been experiencing the most pain, which tends to become more upright and narrow.\n\nNo single treatment works for all cases, probably because there is no single cause for all cases. The degenerative changes are usually quite advanced by the time the horse is consistently lame, and these changes are believed to be non-reversible. At this time, it is best to manage the condition and focus on alleviating pain and slowing the degeneration.\n\nPutting the foot into proper neurological and biomechanical balance is crucial. Often navicular horses have long toes and underrun heels with very little inner wall depth or strength. Exposing the horse to proper stimulus to improve hoof form and structure is also vital.\n\nThe issue of hoof care is a subject of great debate. Corrective shoeing can be beneficial to horses suffering from navicular disease, although sometimes the effects are only temporary. Others believe that removing the shoes altogether is the best way to manage this disease, as it allows increased circulation to the hoof. People on both sides agree that proper hoof shape and angle are an important long-term management plan for a horse with navicular disease. As with laminitis, different horses may respond in different ways to a given technique, so the farrier, owner, and veterinarian should work as a team to formulate a plan and to adapt if the initial plan is not effective.\n\nPeople who choose to treat navicular disease through shoeing may use a shoe designed to lift and support the heels. This can sometimes be accomplished with a flat shoe and trimming alone. Wedge pads or wedged shoes are often used, but can amplify heel-related problems if present. Another strategy is to use a bar type shoe. Often, an egg-bar shoe, or straight bar shoe. Some horses benefit from shoes that change the breakover of their foot (like a rolled toe). With or without shoes, the hoof must be trimmed in such a way as to restore the balance and angle that may have been lost. Horses with long toe-low heel conformation need careful trimming to counter this. Horses with upright feet may need their heels lowered and a shoe that will allow their heels to spread. Early intervention is key; in one study, shoeing was successful in 97% of horses treated within ten months of the onset of signs, while only 54% of horses lame for over a year responded.\n\nAdvocates of barefoot trimming cite recent studies which show that removing the shoes can help alleviate the symptoms of navicular disease, and in some cases, reverse some of the damage done to the hoof. Because navicular disease can be caused, or at least exacerbated by shoeing, removing the cause is the first step in this strategy toward the management of pain in the animal. Successive carefully applied trims help to restore the natural angle and shape of the hoof, while walking helps to stimulate circulation to the hoof. It is not uncommon to find horses whose navicular disease is completely manageable through corrective barefoot trimming. However, this may require a transition period lasting from weeks to years where the horse may remain lame, or may never become sound.\n\nIf there is significant degeneration in the bone, a flexor cortex cyst, adhesions to the deep digital flexor tendon, or avulsion fractures, relief is typically incomplete no matter what foot care technique is used.\n\nHorses with navicular syndrome need a less intense work schedule. Their fitness can be maintained through slow long-distance work or swimming, as opposed to being worked at high speeds, up steep hills, or on hard surfaces, irregular terrain, or deep footing. Reducing the frequency of jumping is also important. Some veterinarians and hoof care practitioners recommend exercising the horse on varied terrain to stimulate and strengthen the caudal hoof structures.\n\nVasodilators improve the blood flow into the vessels of the hoof. Examples include isoxsuprine (currently unavailable in the UK) and pentoxifylline.\n\nAnticoagulants can also improve blood flow. The use of warfarin has been proposed, but the extensive monitoring required makes it unsuitable in most cases.\n\nAnti-inflammatory drugs are used to treat the pain, and can help the lameness resolve sometimes if shoeing and training changes are made. Include Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), corticosteroids, and other joint medications. The use of intramuscular glycosaminoglycans has been shown to decrease pain in horses with navicular disease, but this effect wanes after discontinuation of therapy. Oral glycosaminoglycans may have a similar effect.\n\nBisphosphonates can be useful in cases where bone remodeling is causing pain.\n\nGallium nitrate (GaN) has been hypothesized as a possible treatment for navicular disease, but its benefits have not been confirmed by formal clinical studies. One pilot study examined horses given gallium nitrate in their feed rations. While it was absorbed slowly, it did stay in the animals' system, providing a baseline dosage for future studies.\n\nPalmar digital neurectomy (or \"nerving\" or \"denerving\") is not without adverse side effects and should therefore be used as a last resort. In this procedure, the palmar digital nerves are severed, so the horse loses sensation in the back of the foot. This procedure should only be performed if it will eliminate the lameness associated with navicular syndrome, and only after all other options have been explored. The procedure is usually performed on both front feet. Complications can include infection of the wound, continuation of the lameness (if the nerves regrow or if small branches of the nerves are not removed), neuromas, and rupture of the deep digital flexor tendon. After the neurectomy, if the horse becomes injured in the area the injury may go undetected for a long period of time, which risks the animal's health. Due to this, the feet should be cleaned and inspected regularly. Neurectomy tends to lower the market value of a horse, and may even make the horse ineligible for competition. Neurectomy is controversial. The most common misconception about \"nerving\" a horse is that it will permanently solve the lameness/pain issue. In fact, though the time periods vary based on the individual horse and surgical method utilized, these nerves often regenerate and return sensation to the afflicted region within two to three years.\n\nIn navicular suspensory desmotomy, the ligaments supporting the navicular bone are severed. This makes the navicular bone more mobile, and thus reduces the tension of the other ligaments. It is successful about half of the time.\n\nThe prognosis for a horse with navicular syndrome is guarded. Many times the horse does not return to its former level of competition. Others are retired. Eventually all horses with the syndrome will need to lessen the strenuousness of their work, but with proper management, a horse with navicular syndrome can remain useful for some time.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2010015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010015", "title": "Jim Ferrier", "text": "Jim Ferrier\n\nJames Bennett Elliott Ferrier (24 February 1915 – 13 June 1986) was an Australian professional golfer from Manly, New South Wales. After compiling a fine record as an amateur golfer in Australia during the 1930s, he moved to the United States in 1940, turned professional in 1941, and joined the U.S. PGA Tour. He won the PGA Championship in 1947, among his 18 Tour titles, and was the first Australian and first golfer from the southern hemisphere to win a professional golf major title. Ferrier became an American citizen in 1944.\n\nFerrier was born in Sydney, son of John Bennett Ferrier, who had worked as both an insurance clerk and an employee of American Tobacco Company, and his Australian-born wife, Louisa Elliott. Jim was raised in Manly, a suburb, and was taught golf as a youth by his father, a low-handicap player, who was born of Scottish descent in Shanghai, China, with family from Carnoustie, Scotland. Ferrier Street in Carnoustie, near the world-famous golf course Carnoustie Golf Links, honors the family. The senior Ferrier took a job as secretary of the Manly Golf Club, where Jim began golf at age four and a half. Jim was educated at Sydney Grammar School. Young Ferrier injured a leg playing soccer in his teens, and he had to contend with a significant limp for the rest of his life.\n\nFerrier was playing to a handicap of scratch (zero) by his mid-teens, when he left school to be able to play more golf; he was club champion for the first time at Manly at age 15. His first significant win at the state level came in the 1931 New South Wales Amateur Championship, and he repeated there in 1934, 1937, and 1938. From age 16, Ferrier represented New South Wales seven times in Australian men's inter-state team play, in 1931, 1933, 1934, 1935, 1936, 1937, and 1939; he compiled an overall head-to-head record of 7 wins and 3 losses in those events.\n\nHe was runner-up in the 1931 Australian Open at the age of 16, taking a six on the 72nd hole to lose by one stroke to five-time champion Ivo Whitton. He also finished runner-up in that championship in 1933 and 1935. He broke through to win in both 1938 (by 14 strokes) and 1939, still as an amateur. He won the Australian Amateur title in 1935, 1936, 1938 and 1939; his four titles in that event is tied for most with Michael Scott. Ferrier was also victorious in eight further significant Australian professional Open events during the 1930s (see below).\n\nHe had the opportunity to play exhibitions at Manly Golf Club with world-class players such as Walter Hagen and Gene Sarazen, along with Australian Joe Kirkwood, Sr., who had caddied at Manly for Ferrier's father. He also played with Harry Cooper in 1934, when an American team made a tour of Australia; the team also included stars such as Paul Runyan, Denny Shute, and Craig Wood.\n\nFerrier was runner-up in 1936 to Hector Thompson by 2-up, in The Amateur Championship at St Andrews; this was the best result by an Australian to that juncture, in the world's oldest amateur championship. On that same trip to the British Isles, Ferrier became the first Australian to win the Golf Illustrated Gold Vase, at the Ashridge Golf Club; this was one of the most prestigious amateur events in England. He traveled by ship from Australia to Britain, then on to the USA by ship after his British golf events, flew across the North American continent, then returned to Australia by ship across the Pacific, making a global circuit. He met Sarazen and woman pro Helen Hicks on ship, and played with them in Australia. Sarazen won the 1936 Australian Open.\n\nFerrier worked as a golf reporter and writer for several Australian publications.\n\nFerrier married Norma Kathleen Jennings on 12 January 1938 at All Saints Church of England, Woolhara, Sydney. He taught Norma to play golf, and she eventually reached a three handicap, being proficient enough to help her husband with his game. The couple had no children.\n\nIn 1940, Ferrier went to the United States as a golf journalist, writing for \"The Sydney Morning Herald\". Ferrier was not allowed to qualify for the U.S. Amateur, due to an Australian golf manual published earlier in the year that he was contracted to receive royalties from. His tournament entry was rejected by the United States Golf Association. At the time, amateur golf eligibility rules differed between Australia and the USA.\n\nAs an amateur, Ferrier played several Tour events in 1940, including the Masters Tournament, to which he had been invited based on his amateur record in Australia. However, he was allowed to enter several other amateur events in the U.S., despite the USGA's ruling. He scored his first win in the USA in the 1940 Chicago District Amateur Championship, at the Riverside Golf Club. In January 1941, Ferrier lost to George Dawson in the 36-hole final of the Miami Biltmore Hotel Amateur Championship.\n\nHe turned professional in March 1941 and joined the PGA Tour as a club professional, based at the Elmhurst Country Club in Elmhurst, Illinois, near Chicago, joining the Professional Golfers Association of America. Ferrier signed a golf equipment contract with Wilson Sporting Goods.\n\nWith the United States declaring war on Japan, Nazi Germany, and Italy, in December 1941, following the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor, Ferrier and his wife Norma worked in defense industry jobs in the Chicago area during World War II; this was part of conditions to become American citizens. He served in the U.S. Army from 1944 to 1945, rising to the rank of staff sergeant. While stationed in the artillery at Camp Roberts, California, he gained his first tour victory at the Oakland Open in December 1944, a week after a runner-up finish to Byron Nelson in San Francisco.\n\nIn 1946, following discharge from the Army, Ferrier embarked on full-time PGA Tour play. That year, he made golf history by becoming the first player to score a hole-in-one twice in one PGA Tour tournament. He performed the very rare feat at the Victory Bond San Francisco Open held at the Olympic Club, in the first and fourth rounds; despite this, Ferrier finished well behind champion Byron Nelson.\n\nFerrier's most significant career win came at the PGA Championship in 1947, one of golf's four major championships. He was the first Australian to win a major, and at the time this gave him a lifetime exemption to PGA Tour events. The previous year, he was the medalist in the stroke play qualifier and set the scoring record.\n\nFerrier returned to Australia on a trip in 1948, and lost an 18-hole playoff in the Australian Open to Ossie Pickworth, who won his third straight title. Pickworth, three years younger, had also grown up at the Manly Golf Club, had caddied for Ferrier there, and had worked at the club as an assistant professional.\n\nAt the 1950 Masters, Ferrier led Jimmy Demaret by three shots with six holes to play, but finished two strokes back as the runner-up to Demaret. He scored 16 of his 18 PGA titles between 1947 and 1952, with a peak of five wins in 1951; that was second on Tour to Cary Middlecoff (6). He was second leading money winner on the Tour that year, behind only Lloyd Mangrum. Ferrier's other significant victories included consecutive Canadian Open titles in 1950 and 1951.\n\nFerrier was renowned as an outstanding putter.\n\nFerrier greatly scaled back his PGA Tour competition from 1954, and took a financially lucrative club professional's job with the Lakeside Country Club in suburban Los Angeles, for eight years. He did return to playing more Tour events in the early to mid 1960s, with some success. He was runner-up in the 1960 PGA Championship at age 45. His final Tour win in 1961 snapped a nine-year winless stretch, and he also won a California regional pro event in 1963 in his 48th year.\n\nBut his game fell off after that, although he continued to play some Tour events into the late 1970s, using his lifetime exemption. This created some friction on Tour, since he (and certain other non-competitive aging past champions) was blocking younger players from entering, with fields at limited sizes. An eventual change of PGA Tour regulations came from that, requiring veteran players to maintain a certain playing standard to continue to have access to tournaments. The present-day Champions Tour had not yet been created, although Ferrier did play some events on that Tour in the early 1980s, but struggled.\n\nFerrier became a member at the same city's Wilshire Country Club.\n\nOn 6 January 1955 (Season 5 Episode 17), Ferrier appeared on the television game show \"You Bet Your Life\" hosted by Groucho Marx, of Marx Brothers fame. He was paired with Marilyn Pierce, a dog trainer and former model.\n\nFerrier died in Burbank, California, in 1986 at the age of 71.\n\nFerrier's record in important Australian events was as good as anyone's in the 1930s, although he competed as an amateur; he won a total of ten Open events, where professionals were in the field; he also won a total of eight significant amateur events in Australia. His total of four titles, achieved over a span of five years, in the Australian Amateur Championship is tied for the most ever, with Hon. Michael Scott. His runner-up finish in the Amateur Championship of 1936 was the best result by an Australian until Doug Bachli won in 1954; this title was matched by Australian Bryden Macpherson in 2011.\n\nFerrier did not begin playing the American PGA Tour full-time until 1946, the year he turned 31 years old. But over the next eight seasons, he compiled a very impressive record for outstanding, consistent play. From 1946 to 1953 inclusive, Ferrier finished in the top-25 of Tour events a total of 202 times. Over eight-year periods across the Tour's history, this total has been topped only by Doug Ford, with 223, from 1952–1959. Ferrier's single-season high was 34 top-25 finishes in 1950; this figure has been topped only by the 37 from Lloyd Mangrum in 1948, and by Harold McSpaden, with 35 in 1945; it was matched by Dow Finsterwald with 34 in 1956, with all data through the 1988 season. In terms of top-10 finishes, his 29 from 1950 has been surpassed only by 31 from McSpaden in 1945, and 30 from Byron Nelson, also in 1945.\n\nFerrier's five wins on the regular PGA Tour in the 1951 season was the most by an Australian until it was matched by Jason Day in 2015.\n\nFerrier was ranked #22, through the 1988 season, by the Tour's wide-ranging statistical project, which tabulated in detail the performance statistics for the Tour's top 500 players, through the 1988 season. Of those ranked above him on that list, only E. J. Harrison, at #16, has not been inducted into the World Golf Hall of Fame.\n\nFerrier was the first Australian to win one of the four men's professional championships. He was also the first player from the Southern Hemisphere to win a major.\n\nFerrier's example set the stage for the international success of stars such as South African Bobby Locke (four Open Championship titles between 1949 and 1957), and fellow Australian Peter Thomson (five Open Championship titles between 1954 and 1965). But Ferrier's record in the U.S. was superior to those of both Locke and Thomson.\n\nUntil the arrival of South African Gary Player on the U.S. Tour in the late 1950s, Ferrier was the most successful non-American in that Tour's history, or at least since Tommy Armour played in the 1920s and 1930s. Ferrier was certainly the most successful non-American of his era. Until the arrival of fellow Australian Greg Norman on the U.S. Tour in the 1980s, Ferrier was the most successful Australian on that Tour. Travel between golf tournaments became notably easier after Ferrier and his cohorts wound down their careers; players of his era mostly drove their cars. As airline service improved in the U.S. and around the world, and as tournament prizes rose greatly, later generations were able to save time and energy by flying between tournaments.\n\nAs his success mounted, Ferrier helped to design a signature set of Wilson golf clubs; Wilson also issued a replica of Ferrier's putter – the Grandmaster – from his 1947 PGA Championship win; this putter is now a collector's item. He was made a member of the Sport Australia Hall of Fame with its inaugural class in 1985. He received an entry in the Australian Dictionary of Biography. His portrait is in the Australian National Portrait Gallery.\n\n\n\n\nMajor championship is shown in bold.\n\n\"Note: wins before 1941 as an amateur\"\n\n\n\"Note: The PGA Championship was match play until 1958\"\n\nNT = no tournament\nWD = withdrew\nCUT = missed the half-way cut\nR32, R16, QF, SF = Round in which player lost in PGA Championship match play\n\"T\" indicates a tie for a place\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2010016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010016", "title": "Sinus Successus", "text": "Sinus Successus\n\nThe lunar feature Sinus Successus (Latin \"sinus successūs\" \"Bay of Success\") lies along the eastern edge of Mare Fecunditatis. It is an outward bulge that forms a type of bay. The selenographic coordinates of Sinus Successus are 0.9° N, 59.0° E, and the diameter is 132 km.\n\nAlong the eastern edge of the bay is the flooded crater Condon, and the crater Webb forms the southern end of the area. There are no other features of significance on the bay. However the terrain just to the northwest of Sinus Successus was the landing site for the Soviet Luna 18 and Luna 20 probes.\n"}
{"id": "2010018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010018", "title": "The Sentinel (1977 film)", "text": "The Sentinel (1977 film)\n\nThe Sentinel is a 1977 American supernatural horror film directed by Michael Winner, and starring Cristina Raines, Chris Sarandon, Ava Gardner, Burgess Meredith, Sylvia Miles and Eli Wallach. It also features Christopher Walken, Jeff Goldblum, John Carradine, Jerry Orbach, Tom Berenger, Nana Visitor and Beverly D'Angelo in supporting roles. The plot focuses on a young model who moves into a historic Brooklyn brownstone that has been sectioned into apartments, only to find that the building is owned by the Catholic diocese and is a gateway to Hell. It is based on the 1974 novel of the same name by Jeffrey Konvitz, who also co-wrote the screenplay with director Winner.\n\nThe film was released by Universal Pictures in 1977.\n\nAlison Parker, a beautiful but neurotic fashion model with a history of suicide attempts, moves into a historic Brooklyn brownstone that has been divided into apartments. The top floor apartment is occupied by a reclusive blind priest, Father Halliran, who spends all of his time sitting at his open window. Soon after moving in, Alison begins having strange physical problems, including fainting spells and insomnia, and hears strange noises from the apartment above hers. Alison meets her odd new neighbors, including the eccentric, elderly Charles Chazen, and attends a bizarre birthday party for Chazen's cat. When she complains to the rental agent Miss Logan about the noisy and irritating neighbors, she is told that the building is occupied only by Halliran and her. Miss Logan proves this by showing Alison the various empty apartments, including ones Alison had recently visited and seen occupied. Alison's lawyer boyfriend Michael initially believes she is suffering paranoid delusions, but secretly contacts his corrupt detective friend Brenner to look into the situation.\n\nLate one night, Brenner goes to Alison's building, while inside Alison is again awakened by strange noises, and encounters the animated, rotting corpse of her recently deceased abusive father in the stairwell. She escapes by stabbing him and, covered in blood, runs screaming into the street, arousing the whole neighborhood. Alison is hospitalized with a nervous breakdown, and two police detectives, Gatz and Rizzo, begin an investigation. Gatz and Rizzo suspect that Michael murdered his former wife, who fell to her death after refusing to divorce Michael so that he could marry Alison. The detectives find no body in Alison's building, the blood on her matches her own blood type, and her father is confirmed to have died three weeks previously. However, they later find Brenner's stabbed body dumped elsewhere, and his blood type also matches the blood found on Alison, suggesting that Alison might have murdered him. Gatz and Rizzo also discover that the people Alison claimed she saw at the cat's birthday party are all deceased murderers.\n\nAlison, who now has the ability to read strange Latin words that no one else can see, visits a Catholic church and confesses her sins, including her past suicide attempts and her adultery with Michael, to Monsignor Franchino. Michael, now conducting his own investigation, contacts the Diocesan office about Father Halliran and is directed to Franchino. Franchino is evasive, so Michael breaks into the office that night and reads Halliran's file, which shows he is one of a series of priests and nuns who previously attempted suicide in lay life and then became priests or nuns on the date of their predecessor's death. Alison is listed as the latest in the series, slated to take over as \"Sister Teresa\" starting the next day. Frightened, Michael leaves Alison in the care of her friend Jennifer while he goes to Alison's apartment building. There, Michael meets Halliran, who tells him the building is the gateway to Hell. Michael screams at Halliran and tries to strangle him, but is killed by Franchino.\n\nAlison meanwhile escapes from Jennifer's apartment and goes to her own, where she is confronted by Chazen and grotesque, deformed minions of Hell, including the now-dead Michael, who indeed had hired Brenner to kill his wife. Michael and Chazen explain that Halliran is the Sentinel, who ensures that the demons do not escape from Hell. Halliran is nearing the end of his life, and Alison, with her history of suicide attempts, has been chosen as the new Sentinel in order to save her own soul. Chazen hands the distraught Alison a knife and tries to convince her to reject her task as the Sentinel, commit suicide and join Michael in Hell instead. Just as Alison is about to cut her wrist, the infirm Halliran enters bearing a large cross and supported by Franchino. The demons shrink from Halliran and the cross, and Alison takes the cross from Halliran and sits in his chair, thus accepting her duty as the Sentinel and saving her soul. Angry and disappointed, Chazen and the other demons return to Hell.\n\nShortly after, the brownstone is demolished and replaced with a modern apartment complex. Miss Logan shows an apartment to a young couple looking to rent. The couple asks about the neighbors and Miss Logan explains to them that there are only two: a violin player and a reclusive nun. The nun is Alison, now blind like Father Halliran. She sits facing out the open window in the top floor apartment.\n\nThe external views of the house were taken from the block built at the west end of the Remsen Street in Brooklyn and many of the film's locations are in Brooklyn Heights.\n\nWinner was inspired by the depictions of the creatures of Hell as they appear in the works of Christopher Marlowe, Dante's \"Inferno\", and the paintings of Hieronymus Bosch. Shortly after the film's release, Winner revealed that many of the deformed persons featured in the finale were actually people with physical disabilities and abnormalities, whom he cast from hospitals and sideshows.\n\n\"The Sentinel\" was released theatrically by Universal Pictures on February 11, 1977. It grossed a total of $4 million at the U.S. box office, and was the 57th highest-grossing film of the year.\n\nInitial reception\n\"The Sentinel\" received mostly negative reviews upon its release.\nDavid Pirie in \"Time Out\" was quite negative in his review, claiming \"The Sentinel\" was \"just a mass of frequently incomprehensible footage, acted so badly that even the most blatant shocks count for little\". Pirie criticised the movie for being derivative of \"Rosemary's Baby\", \"The Exorcist\" and \"The Omen\": \"\"The Sentinel\" seems little more than a pile of outtakes from recent supernatural successes.\" Robin Wood described \"The Sentinel\" as \"the worst—most offensive and repressive—horror film of the 70s\". \"Variety\" gave the film a negative review, writing \"\"The Sentinel\" is a grubby, grotesque excursion into religioso psychodrama, notable for uniformly poor performances by a large cast of familiar names and direction that is hysterical and heavy-handed.\" \"The New York Times\" called the film \"dull\", criticizing the film for its long stretches, but commended Raines' performance.\n\nFilm scholar Richard Bookbinder wrote in his 1982 book \"The Films of the Seventies\" the final sequence in which the \"armies of Hell\" terrorize Alison \"is undoubtedly one of the most terrifying interludes in seventies cinema.\"\n\nModern assessment\nOn review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes, \"The Sentinel\" holds an approval rating of 47% based on 19 reviews, with a rating average of 5.9/10.\nAnthony Arrigo from Dread Central gave the film 3.5 out of 5 stars, writing, \"\"The Sentinel\" might be devoid of any big, memorable showstopper moments but it maintains enough of a chilling atmosphere to keep fright fans engaged.\" Brett Gallman from \"Oh, the Horror!\" gave the film a positive review, stating that, although it was not the best of the \"demonic horror\" subgenre, it was just as entertaining. Gallman also commended the film's script, performances and effective imagery.\n\nIan Jane from DVD Talk awarded the film 3.5 out of 5 stars. In his conclusion Jane wrote, \"Michael Winner's \"The Sentinel\" is a gleefully perverse slice of seventies horror that makes no qualms about taking things in a few entirely unexpected directions while still sticking to some tried and true genre conventions. It's not a perfect film but it's definitely interesting and always entertaining.\"\nThe film was ranked #46 on Bravo's \"100 Scariest Movie Moments\" in 2004.\n\nTV Guide awarded the film 1/5 stars, calling it \"a truly repulsive film\". Jedd Beaudoin from PopMatters gave the film 1/10 stars, criticizing the film's lack of believability and incoherent plot.\n\nUniversal Pictures Home Video released \"The Sentinel\" on DVD in 2004. In 2015, Scream Factory issued the film on Blu-ray with new bonus materials, including three audio commentaries.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2010028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010028", "title": "Frederick Coleridge Mackarness", "text": "Frederick Coleridge Mackarness\n\nFrederic(k) Michael Coleridge Mackarness (31 August 1854 – 23 December 1920) born at Tardebigge, Saint Bartholomew, Worcestershire, England was a British barrister, judge and Liberal politician and Member of Parliament for the Newbury constituency.\n\nMackarness was the son of the Right Reverend John Fielder Mackarness, who was Bishop of Oxford from 1870–1888\nand Alethea Buchanan Coleridge. He was educated at Marlborough College and Keble College, Oxford. In 1882 he married Amy Chermside, the daughter of an Anglican vicar . They do not appear to have had children. Amy Mackarness died in 1916.\n\nMackarness went in for the law and was called to the Bar at the Middle Temple in 1879. He practised as an advocate of the Cape Supreme Court for some years, was appointed Revising Barrister for Harrow, Middlesex in 1889 and for London in the same year – Revising Barristers were Counsel of not less than three years standing (and from 1873, of not less than seven years' standing) appointed to revise the lists of parliamentary voters. He was appointed Recorder of Newbury in 1894 and was Professor of Roman-Dutch Law at University College, London from 1905–06. In 1911, he was given a County Court judgeship in Sussex.\n\nLiberal politics were a part of Mackarness' family. His sister Mary was married to Bernard Coleridge, another barrister of the Middle Temple, who was Liberal MP for Sheffield Attercliffe from 1885–1894. His father was also a Liberal and his appointment as Bishop of Oxford was on the recommendation of William E. Gladstone.\n\nIn 1903, Mackarness resigned from his position as Recorder of Newbury to become the prospective Liberal parliamentary candidate. Newbury was a traditionally Conservative seat. Since its creation in 1885 it had been represented first by William George Mount and then by his son William Arthur Mount for the Tories. David Cameron who became Prime Minister at the 2010 general election is descended from the Mount family.\nAt the 1900 general election William Arthur Mount was returned unopposed.\n\nHowever. Mackarness was elected as MP for Newbury at the 1906 general election narrowly beating Mount by 402 votes. He was an active member of the House of Commons.\n\nVery shortly after his election in April 1906 he was the sponsor of a Private Members Bill - The Housing of the Working Classes Acts Amendment Bill which sought to reorganise the provision of housing for the working classes in rural areas. Whilst the Bill itself was unsuccessful it resulted in a Select Committee Report which set out significant and wide ranging proposals to reform the legislation. Subsequently the Liberal Government enacted the Housing of the Working Classes Act 1909 which resulted in systematic inspection of the condition of working class housing and the provision of council housing in many places, particularly in rural areas in the period up to the start of the First World War.\n\nWhile in Parliament he took up the cause of Chinese Labour in South Africa and campaigned on behalf of native Indians and their civil rights. In 1910, in his role as chairman of the executive of the India Civil Rights Committee, he published a pamphlet entitled \"Methods of the Indian Police in the 20th Century\" in which he showed, by quoting official reports, that untried prisoners were tortured to extort evidence. This document was suppressed by the Provincial Governments in India under the Press Act of 1912 and the resulting controversy caused a rift between Mackarness and his sympathetic supporters in the Liberal press and Edwin Montagu who was the Under-Secretary of State for India. Apart from his interest in the issue of so-called coolie labour, Mackarness drew on his experience in South Africa to comment regularly on matters affecting the British colonies there over the years. In 1902 he published \"Martial Law in the Cape Colony during 1901\" and was a member of the South African Conciliation Committee, a British anti-war organisation opposed to the suffering caused by the Second Boer War and dedicated to bringing the war to an end through negotiation. Mackarness was also noted as an 'indefatigable' supporter of Irish Home Rule.\n\nIn 1909, Mackarness told his constituency Liberal Association that “for private reasons” he did not intend to fight the next election. The seat reverted to the Conservatives by a wide margin, William Arthur Mount recording a majority of 2,358 over the new Liberal candidate, Thomas Hedderwick the former MP for Wick Burghs.\n\nMackarness died in London on 23 December 1920 and his funeral took place in Eastbourne on 3 January 1921.\n"}
{"id": "2010033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010033", "title": "Quad Cities Nuclear Generating Station", "text": "Quad Cities Nuclear Generating Station\n\nQuad Cities Generating Station is a two-unit nuclear power plant located near Cordova, Illinois, USA on the Mississippi River. The two General Electric boiling water reactors give the plant a total gross electric capacity of approximately 1,880 MW. It was named for the nearby cities of Moline, Illinois, Rock Island, Illinois, Davenport, Iowa, East Moline, Illinois, and Bettendorf, Iowa — known as the Quad Cities.\n\nThe Quad Cities plant is owned and operated by Exelon Corporation.\nIn 2004, the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) approved a 20-year license extension for both reactors at this plant. Citing the plant's ongoing string of financial losses, Exelon had considered shutting down the facility by 2018.\n\nOn June 2, 2016, Exelon announced its intentions to close Quad Cities Nuclear Generating Station on June 1, 2018 due to the plant's profitability and a lack of support from the Illinois state legislature.\n\nOn December 14, 2016, Exelon announced it would keep Quad Cities Nuclear Generating station open due to Illinois passing the Future Energy Jobs Bill.\n\nDuring an extended power uprate test on March 5, 2002 (designed to extend the power efficiency of existing BWR reactors), Quad Cities Unit 2 began to experience vibrations in a steam line. On March 29 the plant was manually shut down due to high vibrations causing leaks in the main turbine control system. Unit 2 was restarted on April 2, but vibration broke a main steam pipe drain line. The line was repaired and the restart resumed, but by June 7 the main steam lines were showing unexplained aberrations. The plant was again taken offline for repairs on July 11, and the problem was traced to a hole in the steam dryer. The steam dryer was repaired and Unit 2 was restarted on July 21, 2002. The incident did not result in any increased probability of an accident. The NRC inspected all repairs and the extended power uprate was completed successfully.\n\n2015 net generation was 15.5 million MWh, and the capacity factor was 95.0%. This equates to roughly 1.2 million homes.\n\nThe Nuclear Regulatory Commission defines two emergency planning zones around nuclear power plants: a plume exposure pathway zone with a radius of , concerned primarily with exposure to, and inhalation of, airborne radioactive contamination, and an ingestion pathway zone of about , concerned primarily with ingestion of food and liquid contaminated by radioactivity.\n\nThe 2010 U.S. population within of Quad Cities was 34,350, a decrease of 0.5 percent in a decade, according to an analysis of U.S. Census data for msnbc.com. The 2010 U.S. population within was 655,207, a decrease of 0.3 percent since 2000. Cities within 50 miles include Davenport and Moline (19 miles to city center).\n\nIn 2015, Exelon's executive vice president stated that its five Illinois dual-unit power plants have costs roughly $33/MW·h to $34/MW·h of electricity produced and that its Clinton single-unit power plant costs roughly $38/MW·h to $39/MW·h. These costs consist of labor, scheduled and outages maintenance (including provisions for unanticipated outages), nuclear fuel, capital spending, corporate costs (like legal and human resources), and the property taxes paid to host communities.\n\nOn the other side, revenues come from the \"energy prices\" paid by utility customers and businesses and \"capacity charges\" covered by all consumers. For 2016 and 2017 energy prices were set in 2015 around $30.50/MW·h (about $33/MW·h in 2014). The August 21, 2015, announced capacity price, set via an auction conducted yearly by PJM Interconnection (the power-grid administrator covering northern Illinois), for the year beginning June 1, 2018, was $215 per megawatt-day, which, divided for 24 hours, translates to $8.96/MW·h. Adding those revenues yields slightly less than $39.50/MW·h, beginning in mid-2018.\n\nIn that auction, Quad Cities did not qualify for the capacity charges, having bid too high, so it will get only the energy price, $30.50/MW·h.\n\nMore, each power plant has to pay \"congestion costs\", to move its energy on the power grid. Some plants have around $1/MW·h to $2,50/MW·h of such costs. Quad Cities is projected to pay $9.60/MW·h in 2015. Putting all together, Exelon expected to get revenue around $22.50/MW·h in 2017, so Quad Cities would lose $11/MW·h. Given an annual generation of 15.44 million MW·h, it sums to $170 million of losses.\n\nBut Quad Cities could be relieved of some of the congestion costs in 2017. Grand Prairie Gateway, a new transmission line, is under construction by Commonwealth Edison, the largest Illinois electric utility. Once completed, it will relieve power-grid congestion for both Quad Cities and Byron, another Exelon power plant. Taking away congestion costs, Quad Cities losses may be reduced to around $70 million in 2017.\n\nIn 2016, Exelon distributed charts showing its nuclear plants earning revenue of $19,40/MW·h from Quad Cities to $27,80/MW·h from Dresden. Other values shown were: Braidwood $26.1, Byron $22.2, La Salle $26.5 and Clinton $22.6.\n\nIn 2016, Exelon also got a $5.60/MW·h additional revenue following agreements for high-demand periods delivery and in investor presentations, Exelon stated that about 90% of 2016 revenues are locked at more than $34/MW·h. Summing all together, it appears that almost all Exelon power plants, except Clinton, would break-even at $35/MW·h.\n\nIn December 2016, Illinois voted to subsidize Exelon with 1c/kWh or $235 million per year (depending on electricity rates) to keep QC and Clinton open for at least 10 years, as natural gas had decreased rates.\n\nThe Nuclear Regulatory Commission's estimate of the risk each year of an earthquake intense enough to cause core damage to the reactor at Quad Cities was 1 in 37,037, according to an NRC study published in August 2010.\n\n"}
{"id": "2010035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010035", "title": "Central German", "text": "Central German\n\nCentral German () is a group of High German dialects spoken from the Rhineland in the west to the former eastern territories of Germany.\n\nCentral German divides into two subgroups, West Central German and East Central German.\n\nCentral German is distinguished by having experienced only the first and fourth phases of the High German consonant shift. It is spoken in the linguistic transition region separated from Northern Germany (Low German/Low Franconian) by the Benrath line isogloss. It is separated from Southern Germany (Upper German) by the Speyer line.\n\nCentral German is spoken in large and influential German cities like the capital Berlin, the former West German capital Bonn, Cologne, Düsseldorf and the main German financial center Frankfurt.\n\nThe area corresponds to the geological region of the hilly Central Uplands that stretches from the North German plain to the South German Scarplands, covering the states of Saarland, Rhineland-Palatinate, Hesse, Thuringia and Saxony.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2010041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010041", "title": "Middle German", "text": "Middle German\n\nIn linguistics, Middle German can refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2010048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010048", "title": "Mikhail Nesterov", "text": "Mikhail Nesterov\n\nMikhail Vasilyevich Nesterov (; , Ufa – 18 October 1942, Moscow) was a Russian and Soviet painter; associated with the Peredvizhniki and Mir Iskusstva. He was one of the first exponents of Symbolist art in Russia.\n\nHe was born to a strongly patriarchal merchant family. His father was a draper and haberdasher, but always had a strong interest in history and literature. As a result, he was sympathetic to his son's desire to be an artist, but insisted that he acquire practical skills first and, in 1874, he was sent to Moscow where he enrolled at the Voskresensky Realschule.\n\nIn 1877, his counselors suggested that he transfer to the Moscow School of Painting, Sculpture and Architecture, where he studied with Pavel Sorokin, Illarion Pryanishnikov and Vasily Perov, who was his favorite teacher. In 1879, he began to participate in the school's exhibitions. Two years later, he entered the Imperial Academy of Fine Arts, where he worked with Pavel Chistyakov. He was disappointed at the teaching there and returned to Moscow, only to find Perov on his deathbed, so he took lessons from Alexei Savrasov. \n\nAfter a brief stay in Ufa, where he met his future wife, Maria, he returned to Moscow and studied with Vladimir Makovsky. While creating a series of historical paintings, he supported himself doing illustrations for magazines and books published by , including a collection of fairy tales by Pushkin. In 1885, he was awarded the title \"Free Artist\" and married, against his parent's wishes. The following year, his wife died after giving birth to his daughter, Olga. Several of his works from this period feature his wife's image.\n\nHis first major success came with his painting, \"The Hermit\" which was shown at the seventeenth exhibition of the Peredvizhniki in 1889. It was purchased by Pavel Tretyakov and the money enabled Nesterov to take an extended trip to Austria, Germany, France and Italy. Upon returning, his painting, \"The Vision to the Youth Bartholomew\", the first in a series of works on the life of Saint Sergius, was shown at the eighteenth Peredvizhniki exhibition and also purchased by Tretyakov. This series would eventually include fifteen large canvases and occupy him for fifty years.\n\nIn 1890, Adrian Prakhov, who was overseeing work at St Volodymyr's Cathedral, became familiar with Nesterov's paintings and invited him to participate in creating murals and icons there. After some hesitation, he agreed, then travelled to Rome and Istanbul to acquaint himself with Byzantine art. This project would take twenty-two years to complete. Although it brought him great popularity, he apparently came to feel that the images required were too clichéd and beneath his dignity as an artist, so he occasionally introduced some minor innovations, such as setting portraits of saints in a recognizable landscape. \nDespite this, he undertook other religious commissions. In 1898, Grand Duke George Alexandrovich asked him to work at the Alexander Nevsky church in Abastumani. He spent six years there, off and on, creating 50 small murals and the iconostasis, but was dissatisfied with the results. He was apparently much more pleased with later work at the Marfo-Mariinsky Convent. He refused to work on the Alexander Nevsky Cathedral, Warsaw, because he did not approve of building an Orthodox cathedral in a predominantly Catholic city.\n\nIn 1901, he wanted to deepen his spiritual appreciation of the monastic life, so he spent some time at the Solovetsky Monastery on the coast of the White Sea. He painted numerous works there and the influence of his visit could be seen in his canvases for many years after. He was also inspired by the novels of Pavel Ivanovich Melnikov, dealing with the lives of the Old Believers in the Volga Region. In 1902, he married Ekaterina Vasilyeva, whom he had met admiring his works at an exhibition.\n\nIn 1905, after the Revolution began, he joined the Union of the Russian People, an extreme right-wing nationalist party that supported the Tsar. As a result, he was in some danger after the October Revolution. In 1918, he moved to Armavir, where he became ill and was unable to work. He returned to Moscow in 1920 and was forced to give up religious painting, although he continued to work on his Saint Sergius series in private. From then until his death, he painted mostly portraits; notably Ivan Ilyin, Ivan Pavlov, Otto Schmidt, Sergei Yudin, Alexey Shchusev and Vera Mukhina. \n\nIn 1938, toward the end of the Great Purge, his son-in-law, Vladimir Schroeter, a prominent lawyer, was accused of being a spy and shot. His daughter was sent to a prison camp in Zhambyl, where she was brutally interrogated before being released. He was also arrested and held for two weeks at Butyrka Prison.\n\nIn 1941, he was awarded the Stalin Prize for his portrait of Pavlov (created in 1935). It was one of the first given to an artist. Shortly after, he received the Order of the Red Banner of Labour. As the war progressed, his health and financial situation deteriorated rapidly. He had a stroke while working on his painting \"Autumn in the Village\" and died at .\n\nHis unfinished memoirs, which he had begun in 1926, were published later that year under the title \"Bygone Days\". In 1962, he was honored with a postage stamp. In 1996, his likeness appeared on the 50 Ural franc banknote and, in 2015, a monument to him was unveiled at the Bashkir Nesterov art museum in Ufa.\n\n \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2010062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010062", "title": "Palisades Nuclear Generating Station", "text": "Palisades Nuclear Generating Station\n\nThe Palisades Nuclear Generating Station is a nuclear power plant located on Lake Michigan, in Van Buren County's Covert Township, Michigan, on a site south of South Haven, Michigan, USA.\nPalisades is owned and operated by Entergy. It was operated by the Nuclear Management Company and owned by CMS Energy Corporation prior to the sale completed on April 11, 2007.\n\nIts single Combustion Engineering pressurized water reactor weighs 425 tons and has steel walls thick. The containment building is in diameter and tall, including the dome. Its concrete walls are thick with a steel liner plate. The dome roof is thick. Access is via a personnel lock measuring by . The Westinghouse Electric Company turbine generator can produce 725,000 kilowatts of electricity.\n\nBuilt between 1967 and 1970, Palisades was approved to operate at full power in 1973.\n\nOn July 12, 2006 it was announced that the plant would be sold to Entergy. On April 11, 2007, the plant was sold to Entergy for $380 million. The plant's original licensee was due to expire on March 24, 2011. An application for 20-year extension was filed in 2005 with the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. It was granted on January 18, 2007. Therefore, the plant was then scheduled for decommissioning by 2031.\n\nEntergy plans to close the Palisades plant in 2022. Earlier, Entergy had made a decision to close the plant in October 2018. A decision by the Michigan Public Service Commission (MPSC) influenced the company's decision. Consumers Energy attempted to buy its way out of a power purchase agreement it has with Entergy and the plant. The MPSC did not approve Consumer Energy's full request of $172 million, so Entergy decided to keep the plant open three years longer than planned.\n\nThe Nuclear Regulatory Commission defines two emergency planning zones around nuclear power plants: a plume exposure pathway zone with a radius of , concerned primarily with exposure to, and inhalation of, airborne radioactive contamination, and an ingestion pathway zone of about , concerned primarily with ingestion of food and liquid contaminated by radioactivity.\n\nThe 2010 U.S. population within of Palisades was 28,644, a decrease of 4.5 percent in a decade, according to an analysis of U.S. Census data for msnbc.com. The 2010 U.S. population within was 1,326,618, an increase of 4.4 percent since 2000. Cities within 50 miles include South Bend, IN (45 miles to city center) and Kalamazoo, MI.\n\nSpent fuel is stored outdoors in 21 storage casks, each containing 30 tons and resting on a concrete pad. This was intended to be a temporary solution until the spent fuel repository at Yucca Mountain nuclear waste repository opened.\n\nTwo steam generators were replaced in 1992. This involved cutting a 28 by 26 foot opening through the reinforced concrete wall. The removed units are stored in a large concrete building on plant property.\n\nThe Nuclear Regulatory Commission's estimate of the risk each year of an earthquake intense enough to cause core damage to the reactor at Palisades was 1 in 156,250, according to an NRC study published in August 2010.\n\nLike all U.S. nuclear power plants since September 11, 2001, public access to Palisades is prohibited. However, Palisades can be glimpsed from the neighboring Van Buren State Park.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2010067", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010067", "title": "Dead Meadow", "text": "Dead Meadow\n\nDead Meadow is an American psychedelic rock band, formed in Washington, D.C. in 1998 and currently composed of vocalist and guitarist Jason Simon, bassist Steve Kille, and drummer Mark Laughlin. The band have released seven studio albums, two live albums, and a Peel Session.\n\nDead Meadow formed in 1998 from the remnants of two local DC bands, The Impossible Five and Colour. The band started as Jason Simon on vocals and guitar, Steve Kille on bass, and Mark Laughlin on drums. They combined 70's heavy metal and 60's psychedelic rock with themes from authors such as J. R. R. Tolkien and H. P. Lovecraft. The first album, \"Dead Meadow\", was released in 2000 on Tolotta Records, a label run by Fugazi bassist Joe Lally. The vinyl LP version was released by Planaria Records. This was followed by 2001's \"Howls from the Hills\", also released on Tolotta Records.\n\nHaving heard the band's first album, John Peel asked the band to record a Peel Session. Unable to afford to tour internationally, the band recorded their session in Fugazi's home studio using an 8-track recorder previously owned by Minor Threat, the first time a Peel Session was recorded outside the BBC studios. Primarily featuring energetic versions of songs from their first two albums, Dead Meadow's session was officially released in 2011 as \"Peel Sessions\", and includes two additional tracks recorded during the same period.\n\nIn Spring 2002, Laughlin left the band in order to attend law school and pursue a career as a lawyer. He was replaced by long-time friend and former Canyon drummer Stephen McCarty. In mid 2002, the band released the live album, \"Got Live If You Want It\", which documented one of the last shows with Laughlin and was produced, mixed and released by Anton Newcombe of Brian Jonestown Massacre. In early 2003 the band signed to Matador Records and released \"Shivering King and Others\". Along with the heavy song and blues-influenced songs as on the previous two records, the band continued in their psychedelic style, with acoustic elements and ballads. With the addition of second guitarist Cory Shane, \"Feathers\" was released in 2005.\n\nThe band's music was used briefly in both the season four premiere \"Boys of Summer\" and the season five episode \"React Quotes\" of \"The Wire\". Simon is the nephew of the series creator David Simon.\n\nIn 2007, the band reverted to a three piece. They performed at the Green Man Festival in the UK and relocated from Washington, D.C. to Los Angeles, California.\n\nIn early 2008, the band released \"Old Growth\" on Matador Records. A collection of songs that brought the band back initially to the same farm where their second release \"Howls from the Hills\" was created and eventually finished up at the Sunset Sound studio in Los Angeles. As with the last three albums, \"Old Growth\" was produced by bassist Steve Kille.\n\nFollowing a brief session with Andrew Stockdale of Wolfmother, a reinterpretation of the band's song \"Everything's Goin' On\" was released as \"Pilgrim\" on Wolfmother's second album \"Cosmic Egg\".\n\nIn March 2010 the band released a live film and soundtrack, \"Three Kings\", which was recorded at the final show of the band's five-month \"Old Growth\" tour. The film premiered at the Hollywood Forever Cemetery in Los Angeles, California and was released on their own record label Xemu Records. The film was directed by Simon Chan & Joe Rubalcaba of Artificial Army.\n\nIn August 2010, it was announced that original drummer Mark Laughlin had re-joined the band and were confirmed to play two dates in the U.S and a tour of Australia. In January 2011, Laughlin postponed his career in law to rejoin the band permanently and tour Europe and the Pacific Northwest of the U.S. The band released \"Warble Womb\" in November 2013, their first new album to feature Laughlin since 2002. The album was released on the band's own label Xemu Records.\n\nAlthough not officially announced, it was revealed in February 2016 that Laughlin (taking a break from touring) had been replaced by Juan Londono, formerly of Strangers Family Band.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2010077", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010077", "title": "William George Mount", "text": "William George Mount\n\nWilliam George Mount (18 July 1824 – 14 January 1906) was a British landowner, Conservative politician, and the first Member of Parliament for the Newbury constituency.\n\nHe was educated at Eton College and Balliol College, Oxford.\n\nThe son of William Mount, of Wasing Place, Berkshire, he became a Magistrate in 1851, and High Sheriff in 1877. He was narrowly elected in the general election of 1885, beating his Liberal opponent by 202 votes. He was chairman of Quarter Sessions from 1887 to 1902, and was the first Chairman of Berkshire County Council from 1889 to 1906.\n\nHe served as MP for Newbury for 15 years until standing down at the 1900 general election.\n\nHe was the father of Sir William Mount, 1st Baronet, brother-in-law of Richard Fellowes Benyon, MP, of Englefield and great-great grandfather to David Cameron, who was Prime Minister of the United Kingdom from 2010 to 2016.\n\n"}
{"id": "2010078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010078", "title": "Diggin' in the Crates Crew", "text": "Diggin' in the Crates Crew\n\nThe Diggin' in the Crates Crew, also known as D.I.T.C., is an American hip hop collective formed in 1992 in New York City. The collective's name derives from the act of seeking out records to sample for production. The collective is composed of Lord Finesse, Diamond D, Big L, O.C., Fat Joe, Buckwild, Showbiz and A.G., DJ O.Gee and The Ghetto Dwellas. Its members have achieved substantial and consistent recognition in underground rap circles, having often collaborated with undiscovered talents and underground hip hop artists alongside the most commercial of rappers.\n\nLord Finesse (born Robert Hall) is a rapper-turned-producer who has produced tracks for The Notorious B.I.G. (1994's \"Ready to Die\") and Dr. Dre (1999's \"2001\"). As a young MC, he would travel to any borough in New York to battle their best rapper and win. He shopped his demo to various record labels and eventually dropped the first of several records, 1990's \"Funky Technician\". The record had a few tracks produced by his longtime friend Diamond (formerly Diamond D), a former member of the rap group Ultimate Force. In the mid-'80s, he was turntable scratching at late-night park parties, often competing with area top DJs (with future cohort Showbiz, being one of his rivals). In 1992, this DJ, then a producer, showcased New York City's underground talent and his rap skills on his classic debut \"Stunts, Blunts & Hip-Hop\".\n\nBronx-native Fat Joe became the first Latino rapper in New York to secure a solo deal with a major label with his 1993 debut \"Representin'\". In 1998, his \"Don Cartagena\" release went gold (500,000 copies sold). Showbiz & A.G. were the first to adopt the do-it-yourself attitude by releasing their 1992 debut EP, \"Can I Get a Soul Clap\", practically out of the trunk of their cars. Showbiz, a name he'd stolen from an old Richard Pryor record, pioneered taking an instrumental and looping voices over it. His partner A.G. was known as the Bronx's \"punchline\" rapper. Through the mid-'90s, he was a prolific producer, producing tracks for primarily underground rap acts. In 1999, A.G. restarted his rap career with his solo CD \"Dirty Version\".\n\nMeanwhile, another Bronx native named Buckwild, who once started out as Lord Finesse's apprentice in his production company, started producing tracks around 1994. He first gained major recognition in the underground rap scene for producing tracks for O.C.'s \"Word... Life\" in 1994. He went on to produce for several prominent rappers, including Fat Joe, The Notorious B.I.G., Big L and Big Pun. After the release of \"Word... Life\", O.C. made numerous guest appearances on other D.I.T.C. members' records while maintaining a low profile. One of the less prolific members of the group, DJ O.Gee, contributed production to his frequent collaborator O.C.'s \"Word... Life,\" \"Jewelz\", and \"Hidden Gems,\" as well as the track \"Your Life\" for \"Soul In The Hole (Soundtrack).\" DJ O.Gee also produced \"Laughing At You\" from Big Pun's 2000 album \"Yeeeah Baby,\" contributed scratches to Buckwild's remix of Channel Live's song \"Mad Izm\" on the 2007 compilation \"\", and contributed a remix to the 2014 \".\" The third member of D.I.T.C. was Big L, a gangsta rapper from Harlem. Staying true to hardcore hip hop and calling himself the \"flamboyant MC\", he issued his 1995 debut \"Lifestylez ov da Poor and Dangerous\" on Columbia Records. Big L was working on his second album, due for release on Rawkus Records, when he was murdered on February 15, 1999 at age 24. The remaining D.I.T.C. members came together later that year for a memorial concert at Trammps in New York (anthologized by a series of CD releases), and recorded a self-titled group record in 2000.\n\nOn December 4, 2008, D.I.T.C. member Party Arty unexpectedly died of unspecified health complications, aged 31. In 2008, Freddie Foxxx (using his Bumpy Knuckles pseudonym) released the long-shelved \"Crazy Like A Foxxx\" album. The second of two discs featured DITC produced demo versions of the original tracks dating to 1993. DITC production contrasted with the Jailhouse version of production from 1994.\n\nIn 2011, Showbiz stated that the crew itself is now defunct and will no longer create any new albums in the future citing musical creative differences. However, member O.C. confirmed that the group would indeed record a brand new album with production so far from Diamond D and Lord Finesse, while awaiting Buckwild. He stated that their deceased member Big L would not want them to end their legacy like this. On October 28, 2016, D.I.T.C. released \"Sessions\", preceded by the lead single \"Rock Shyt\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2010079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010079", "title": "Point Beach Nuclear Plant", "text": "Point Beach Nuclear Plant\n\nPoint Beach Nuclear Plant is a nuclear power plant located on Lake Michigan in the town of Two Creeks, Wisconsin, United States.\n\nThe plant is currently owned and operated by NextEra Energy Resources (prior to 2009 - FPL Energy), of Juno Beach, Florida. The plant was built by Wisconsin Electric Power Company (now We Energies, a subsidiary of Wisconsin Energy Corporation), and previously operated by the Nuclear Management Company.\n\nNextEra Energy Resources purchased the plant from Wisconsin Electric Power Company in October 2007. As part of the sale, We Energies agreed to repurchase all of the power produced by the plant for at least 20 years. In 2000–2007 the plant was managed by the Nuclear Management Company.\n\nThis plant has two, two-loop Westinghouse pressurized water reactors. There is also a visitors' center located at the Point Beach plant. The original letter of intent to purchase a single 454 megawatt (MW) nuclear unit from Westinghouse Electric Company for a fixed-price was issued by Wisconsin Electric and Wisconsin Michigan Power Company (a Wisconsin Electric subsidiary) on December 30, 1965. The right was reserved to order a second, duplicate unit under the same terms. In May, 1966, the announcement was made that the plant would be built on a 1,200 acre site in the town of Two Creeks.\n\nOn November 28, 1966, following Public Service Commission of Wisconsin (PSCW) endorsement and a brief public hearing, Alfred Gruhl, Glenn Reed, and Sol Burstein turned the first symbolic spades of dirt for the official ground-breaking. In May, 1967, the Atomic Energy Commission (AEC), predecessor to the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC), issued the official construction permit (number 32) for Point Beach Unit 1. The Unit 2 construction permit (number 47) was issued approximately a year later.\n\nOn October 5, 1970, the AEC issued its full-term, full-power Operating License (DPR-24) for Point Beach Unit 1. The loading fuel into the reactor commenced almost immediately. On November 2, 1970, operators achieved initial criticality, with the nuclear-powered electricity being produced four days later, on November 6. Full commercial service was reached on December 21, 1970, just 49 months from the initial groundbreaking ceremony. After delays from nuclear power opponents, Unit 2 was granted a full-term, full-power operating license (DPR-27) on March 8, 1973, almost 1 1/2 years behind the original schedule.\n\nDue to steam generator tube degradation and failures caused by intergranular stress corrosion cracking, Unit 1 was operated at approximately 75-80% of full power from December 1979 until October 1983, when replacement steam generators were installed. The Unit 2 steam generators were replaced in 1996-97.\n\nIn 2005, the approved the license renewal application for the Point Beach plant, extending the operating license from forty years to sixty. in 2011, the NRC approved a 17% increase in power output (a.k.a. extended power uprate) from both units. This entailed significant upgrades to several plant systems and components, including safety-related pumps and valves, as well as the turbine-generator sets.\n\nMost of the power from this plant goes to the Green Bay area and communities along the Lake Michigan shoreline of Southeastern Wisconsin. The plant is connected to the grid by four 345 kV lines, one of which travels northwest towards Green Bay and then on to the We Energies North Appleton substation located about 12 miles north of Appleton, Wisconsin, and the other one interconnecting with the now-closed Kewaunee Nuclear Generating Station located a short distance away to the north from Point Beach. The other 345 kV lines going out of the plant go south towards Milwaukee. Several 138 kV lines going out of the plant supply electricity to the surrounding area.\n\nThe Nuclear Regulatory Commission defines two emergency planning zones around nuclear power plants: a plume exposure pathway zone with a radius of , concerned primarily with exposure to, and inhalation of, airborne radioactive contamination, and an ingestion pathway zone of about , concerned primarily with ingestion of food and liquid contaminated by radioactivity.\n\nThe 2010 U.S. population within of Point Beach was 19,975, a decrease of 6.7 percent in a decade, according to an analysis of U.S. Census data for msnbc.com. The 2010 U.S. population within was 777,556, an increase of 10.0 percent since 2000. Cities within 50 miles include Green Bay (28 miles to city center).\n\nThe Nuclear Regulatory Commission's estimate of the risk each year of an earthquake intense enough to cause core damage to the reactor at Point Beach was 1 in 90,909, according to an NRC study published in August 2010. This was tied for 62 in a list of 104 with #1 being most at risk.\n\n"}
{"id": "2010089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010089", "title": "DeLima v. Bidwell", "text": "DeLima v. Bidwell\n\nDeLima v. Bidwell, 182 U.S. 1 (1901), was one of a group of the first Insular Cases decided by the US Supreme Court.\n\nThe case was argued on January 8-11, 1901 and was decided on May 27, 1901.\n\nThe DeLima Sugar Importing Company sued the New York City collector of customs to recover duties on sugar imported from Puerto Rico after 1899, when Puerto Rico was ceded to the United States. DeLima argued that The Port of New York City had no jurisdiction to collect duties since Puerto Rico had been annexed by the United States.\n\nThe lower appellate court held the following:\n\nThe Supreme Court ruled 5-4 that Puerto Rico, since its cession to the United States in 1898 following the Treaty of Paris, was not a foreign country for purposes of the tariff laws of the United States, which required payment of duties on goods moving into the United States from a foreign country. In the absence of congressional legislation, the US government could not collect customs duties on sugar from Puerto Rico shipped to other parts of the United States by classifying Puerto Rico as a foreign country.\n\nThe majority opinion was authored by Justice Henry Billings Brown, joined by Justices Melville Fuller, John Marshall Harlan, Rufus Wheeler Peckham and David Josiah Brewer. Justice Joseph McKenna authored a dissent, which was joined by Justices George Shiras, Jr., and Edward Douglass White. Justice Horace Gray authored a separate dissenting opinion.\n\nThe decision is similar to \"Downes v. Bidwell\", 182 U.S. 244 (1901), decided on the same date.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2010104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010104", "title": "Skanks for the Memories...", "text": "Skanks for the Memories...\n\nSkanks for the Memories... is a comedy album by Dave Attell released in 2003 on Comedy Central Records. It was recorded live in November 2002 at Comedy Works in Denver, CO. \n\nThe album reached #24 on Billboard's Independent Albums Chart and #36 on the Heatseekers Chart.\n\n"}
{"id": "2010105", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010105", "title": "Langevin (crater)", "text": "Langevin (crater)\n\nLangevin is a crater on the far side of the Moon. It is located to the east of the walled plain Campbell, and to the west of the crater Chandler.\n\nThis is a heavily damaged crater that has been worn and battered by multiple overlapping impacts. Apart from the depression Langevin creates in the surface, it is scarcely distinguishable from the surrounding terrain. The outer rim and interior features have lost much of their original definition due to this wear. Multiple small craters lie along the rim, including a cluster along the southwest and a crater along the northeast rim. The interior is pock-marked by many small craterlets.\n\nBy convention these features are identified on lunar maps by placing the letter on the side of the crater midpoint that is closest to Langevin.\n\n"}
{"id": "2010107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010107", "title": "Bid shading", "text": "Bid shading\n\nIn an auction, bid shading describes the practice of a bidder placing a bid that is below what they believe a good is worth.\n\nBid shading is used for one of two purposes. In a common value auction with incomplete information, bid shading is used to compensate for the winner's curse. In such auctions, the good is worth the same amount to all bidders, but bidders don't know the value of the good and must independently estimate it. Since all bidders value the good equally, the winner will generally be the bidder whose estimate of the value is largest. But if we assume that in general bidders estimate the value accurately, then the highest bidder has overestimated the good's value and will end up paying more than it is worth. In other words, winning the auction carries bad news about a bidder's value estimate. A savvy bidder will anticipate this, and reduce their bid accordingly.\n\nBid shading is also used in first-price auctions, where the winning bidder pays the amount of his bid. If a participant bids an amount equal to their value for the good, they would gain nothing by winning the auction, since they are indifferent between the money and the good. Bidders will optimize their expected value by accepting a lower chance of winning in return for a higher payoff if they win.\n\nIn a first-price common value auction, a savvy bidder should shade for both of the above purposes.\n\nBid shading is not only a normative theoretical construct, it was detected in the above-mentioned real world auction markets (Jofre-Bonet and Pesendorfer 2003, Zeithammer 2006). Previous theoretical work on sequential auctions focused either on bid shading in\nan exogenous sequence of auctions (see, for example, Milgrom and Weber 2000, Jeitschko 1999), or on strategic auctioning to short-lived buyers, who never want to shade their bids (see, for example, Vulcano et al. 2002). This paper provides the first model of a sequential auction with both endogenous strategic selling and forward-looking longer-lived buyers who can shade their bids. The model’s contribution\nis the analysis of the best response of the seller to strategic bid shading, and the exposition of a market equilibrium, in which bidders do not always shade. The most related model of bidding is Jeitschko (1999), who finds that relatively to exogenous and\ncertain future supply, exogenous but uncertain future supply leads to a proportional bid increase. In contrast, high-valuation bidders shade more than low valuation bidders here. The most related model of optimal sequential auctioning by Vulcano, van Ryzin,\nand Maglaras (2002) (VRM), who study a monopolist selling to unit-demand strategic buyers who each only lives for one period. While VRM’s bidders do not shade their bids by assumption, strategic sequential auctioning has an effect on their bidding strategy because they are forward-looking: there is an incentive to overbid and make the seller sell more units in the current period than would be optimal for her.\n\n"}
{"id": "2010109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010109", "title": "Oxyria digyna", "text": "Oxyria digyna\n\nOxyria digyna (mountain sorrel, wood sorrel, Alpine sorrel or Alpine mountain-sorrel) is a species of flowering plant in the buckwheat family (Polygonaceae). It is native to arctic regions and mountainous parts of the Northern Hemisphere.\n\nMountain sorrel is a perennial plant with a tough taproot that grows to a height of . It grows in dense tufts, with stems that are usually unbranched and hairless. Both flowering stems and leaf stalks are somewhat reddish. The leaves are kidney-shaped, somewhat fleshy, on stalks from the basal part of the stem. Flowers are small, green and later reddish, and are grouped in an open upright cluster. The fruit is a small nut, encircled by a broad wing which finally turns red. Forming dense, red tufts, the plant is easily recognized. \"Oxyria digyna\" grows in wet places protected by snow in winter. \"Oxyria\" (from Greek) means \"sour\".\n\nMountain sorrel is common in the tundra of the Arctic. Further south, it has a circumboreal distribution, growing in high mountainous areas in the Northern Hemisphere such as the Alps, the Sierra Nevada, and the Cascade Range. It typically grows in alpine meadows, scree, snow-bed sites and beside streams.\n\nOn the coast of Norway, the pollen of this plant has been found in peat bogs that are 12,600 years old, indicating that it must have been one of the first plants to colonise the area after the retreating ice age glaciers.\n\nThe leaves of mountain sorrel have a fresh acidic taste and are rich in vitamin C, containing about 36 mg/100 g. They were used by the Inuit to prevent and cure scurvy, and can be used in salads. The above-ground parts of the plant are edible when cooked. The plant is important for both insects and larger animals that feed on it in arctic and alpine regions where it occurs.\n\n"}
{"id": "2010111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010111", "title": "Patricia Idlette", "text": "Patricia Idlette\n\nPatricia Idlette is an American actress known for her role as Kiffany in Showtime's \"Dead Like Me\". She also appeared in four episodes of \"Battlestar Galactica\" as politician Sarah Porter, and as Melanie Blackstone in the miniseries \"Amerika\". Idlette portrayed Katherine Jackson, mother of Michael Jackson, in the 2004 biopic \"\". She appeared as Brenda's mother in \"Scary Movie 3\" in 2003.\n\nOriginally from Miami, Florida, she trained as an actress in Florida and Michigan. She moved to Canada to join the repertory company of the Stratford Festival, acting in productions of \"A Midsummer Night's Dream\", \"Antony and Cleopatra\", \"The Winter's Tale\", \"The Merchant of Venice\", \"As You Like It\" and \"Medea\". She remained based in Canada for many years, acting on stage in Toronto and Vancouver and appearing as a guest actor in television series such as \"Street Legal\", \"The Littlest Hobo\", \"Adderly\", \"Katts and Dog\" and \"The X-Files\".\n\nShe garnered a Dora Mavor Moore Award nomination for Best Performance by a Female in a Featured Role for her performance in Susan G. Cole's play \"A Fertile Imagination\".\n\nShe moved back to Florida in the early 2000s.\n"}
{"id": "2010112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010112", "title": "Things Viral", "text": "Things Viral\n\nThings Viral is the second album by American drone metal band Khanate, released in 2003 on the Southern Lord label.\n\nThe CD was released in two versions: a European digipack version and a U.S. jewelcase version. There was also a LP version on LOAD Records with 1000 gatefold plus 12\" copies released.\n\nA video was made for the song \"Dead\".\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2010113", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010113", "title": "Prince William County Public Schools", "text": "Prince William County Public Schools\n\nPrince William County Public Schools is a Virginian school division with its headquarters in the Kelly Leadership Center in unincorporated Prince William County, Virginia. As of the 2010 census, the population of the county was 402,002.\n\nPrince William County Public Schools is the second largest school division in Virginia enrolling approximately 81,635 students in the 2011-2012 school year. Prince William County Public Schools is the fourth largest school system in the Washington Metropolitan Area after the Fairfax County, Virginia; Montgomery County, Maryland; and Prince George's County, Maryland school systems.\n\nFunding for fiscal year 2012 was $811 million.\n\nBattlefield High School \nBrentsville District High School \nC. D. Hylton High School \n\nCharles J. Colgan, Sr. High School \n\nForest Park High School \nFreedom High School \nGar-Field High School \n\nOsbourn Park High School \nPatriot High School \n\nPotomac High School \n\nStonewall Jackson High School\n\nWoodbridge High School\n\n13th High School (will open for 2021-2022 school year)\n\n\nThe Biotechnology Center is located at Osbourn Park High School. Osbourn Park also offers specialty programs through their automotive program, firefighting program, Navy JROTC, practical nursing program, project lead-the-way, and the pre-governors school program.\n\nThe Cambridge Programme offers a curriculum and examination system with external assessments by the University of Cambridge International Examinations. Juniors and seniors taking advanced-level courses can qualify for an Advanced International Certificate of Education (AICE) diploma. Available at Potomac High School and Brentsville District High School.\n\nThe Center for Environmental and Natural Sciences (CENS) is located at Freedom High School.\n\nThe Center for the Fine and Performing Arts is located at Charles J. Colgan, Sr. High School since the school's opening; Woodbridge High School hosted it up to 2016.\n\nThe Center for Information Technology is located at Battlefield High School and Forest Park High School.\n\nThe Center for International Studies and Languages and the \"Center for Television Production\" is located at C. D. Hylton High School.\n\nThe International Baccalaureate Diploma Programme, a rigorous four-year academic program authorized by the International Baccalaureate (IB) of Geneva, Switzerland. Available at Stonewall Jackson High School and Gar-Field Senior High School.\nLouise A. Benton Middle School \n\n\nStuart M. Beville Middle School \n\n\nBull Run Middle School \n\n\nFred M. Lynn Middle School \n\n\nGainesville Middle School \n\n\nGraham Park Middle School (Lions)\n\n\nGeorge M. Hampton Middle School (Formerly Mills E. Godwin Middle School)\n\n\nLake Ridge Middle School \n\n\nE.H. Marsteller Middle School \n\n\nParkside Middle School \n\n\nPotomac Middle School \n\n\nRonald Wilson Reagan Middle School \n\n\nRippon Middle School \n\n\nHerbert J. Saunders Middle School \n\n\nStonewall Middle School \n\n\nWoodbridge Middle School \n\n\n\"Potomac Shores\" Middle School\n\n\nGraham Park, Marsteller, and Rippon Middle Schools currently offer Middle School Mathematics and Science Program, an intensive program in mathematics and science.\n\nBeville, Godwin, and Stonewall Middle Schools offer the International Baccalaureate Middle Years Programme (IBMYP).\n\nLynn, Lake Ridge, and Parkside Middle Schools offer the Middle School World Languages Program in French and Spanish.\n\nThe Nokesville School\n\n\nPennington Traditional School\n\n\nMary G. Porter Traditional School\n\n\nJ.W. Alvey Elementary School (Sunrays)\n\nAntietam Elementary School (Mighty Mustangs)\n\nAshland Elementary School (Falcons)\n\nBel Air Elementary School (Panthers)\n\nBelmont Elementary School (Eagles)\n\nBennett Elementary School (Bears)\n\nBristow Run Elementary School (Panthers)\n\nBuckland Mills Elementary School(Wild cat)\n\nCedar Point Elementary School\n\nChris Yung Elementary School\n\nColes Elementary School\n\nCovington-Harper Elementary School (Cheetahs)\n\nDale City Elementary School\n\nDumfries Elementary School (Dragons)\n\nSuella Gilbert Ellis Elementary School\n\nEnterprise Elementary School\n\nFeatherstone Elementary School\n\nFannie W. Fitzgerald Elementary School\n\nGlenkirk Elementary School\n\nSamuel L. Gravely Elementary School\n\nHenderson Elementary School\n\nJohn D. Jenkins Elementary School\n\nKerrydale Elementary School\n\nKilby Elementary School\n\nKing Elementary School\n\nKyle R. Wilson Elementary School\n\nLake Ridge Elementary School\n\nLeesylvania Elementary School\n\nLoch Lomond Elementary School\n\nMarshall Elementary School\n\nMarumsco Hills Elementary School\n\nMary Williams Elementary School\n\nSharon C. McAuliffe Elementary School\n\nMinnieville Elementary School\n\nMontclair Elementary School\n\nMountain View Elementary School\n\nMullen Elementary School\n\nNeabsco Elementary School\n\nNokesville Elementary School\n\nOccoquan Elementary School (Braves)\n\nOld Bridge Elementary School\n\nJohn F. Pattie, Sr. Elementary School\n\nSonnie P. Penn Elementary School\n\nPiney Branch Elementary School\n\nPotomac View Elementary School\n\nRiver Oaks Elementary School\n\nRockledge Elementary School\n\nRosa Parks Elementary School\n\nSignal Hill Elementary School\n\nSinclair Elementary School\n\nSpringwoods Elementary School (Eagles)\n\nSudley Elementary School\n\nSwans Creek Elementary School\n\nT. Clay Wood Elementary School\n\nTriangle Elementary School\n\nGeorge Grayson Tyler Elementary School\n\nElizabeth Vaughan Elementary School\n\nVictory Elementary School\n\nWest Gate Elementary School\n\nWestridge Elementary School\n\nYorkshire Elementary School\n\nElementary Foreign/World Languages Programs are available at Enterprise, Mullen, River Oaks, Tyler, Lake Ridge and Signal Hill schools.\n\nElementary Mathematics and Science Program are available at Belmont and Sudley elementary Schools.\n\nInternational Baccalaureate Primary Years Programme (PYP) are in the consideration phase at Antietam, Buckland Mills, Dumfries, Ellis, Featherstone, Parks, Victory, and Williams elementary schools.\n\nPennington School and Porter School, both schools of choice and serving students in grades 1 through 8, provide Traditional Schools Serving Students at the Elementary and Middle School Levels.\n\nPrince William County provides an \"alternative\" school service for what they deem as \"troubled teens\". Students who become pregnant, sell or use drugs, write graffiti, have general behavioral issues or are prone to violence are usually sent to learn together in the same facility, regardless of their base school. The PACE program targets students with more extreme cases of psychological issues.\n\n\nPrince William County Public Schools honors schools as Schools of Excellence based on a variety of criteria, including: performance targets; Adequate Yearly Progress under the No Child Left Behind Act; Virginia Wellness Tests; school attendance rates; and parent, student, and teacher satisfaction. The Virginia state Standards of Learning (SOL) tests for both students on grade level and students below grade level are also considered. In 2006, the criteria was adjusted to reflect the continuous improvement of the system's schools.\n\nSchool administration and staff are presented with a commemorative flag, a plaque, and a check to be used at the school's discretion. Schools receive $1,000 for each year the School of Excellence designation is obtained.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2010118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010118", "title": "Brooklyn Friends School", "text": "Brooklyn Friends School\n\nBrooklyn Friends School is a school at 375 Pearl Street in Downtown Brooklyn, New York City. Brooklyn Friends School (BFS) is an independent, college preparatory Quaker school serving a culturally diverse educational community of approximately 835 students, from two years of age through 12th grade.\n\nFounded in 1867 by the Religious Society of Friends as a coeducational Quaker school, Brooklyn Friends School is one of the oldest continuously operating independent schools in New York City.\n\nFrom an initial student body of 17, the school now enrolls 835 students from Preschool through 12th grade, with a faculty and staff of approximately 240. While the percentage of Quaker families and staff is small, the school's Quaker values have remained central to its mission.\n\nStarting as a grade school, BFS added a kindergarten in 1902, a high school division in 1907, and a Preschool and Family Center in 1985 and 1992 respectively. The most recent addition, the BFS Preschool, has gained prominence as one of the city's premier early learning centers.\n\nThe Academy Award-winning 1981 documentary \"Close Harmony\" chronicled how a children's choir of 4th- and 5th-graders from the school joined with elderly retirees from a Brooklyn Jewish seniors' center to give a joint concert.\n\nBrooklyn Friends is a Preschool through 12th grade independent Quaker school located in the thriving Downtown Brooklyn neighborhood. Brooklyn Friends School is split into four academic levels: Preschool, Lower School (K-4), Middle School (5-8), and Upper School (9-12).\n\nLower School (K-4)<br>\nThe Lower School curriculum includes classes in language arts, mathematics, social studies, science, Spanish, dance, music, visual arts, woodworking, physical education, and health.\n\nMiddle School (5-8)<br>\nThe middle school curriculum includes classes in the humanities (English and history), mathematics, science, languages, visual arts, performing arts, physical education, health/life skills, organization and study skills and information technology.\n\nUpper School (9-12)<br>\nThe Brooklyn Friends Upper School curriculum provides every student with a strong and broad foundation in the arts, humanities, sciences, and ethics.\n\nNinth and tenth grade students have a special program crafted for each class. In a coordinated approach, groups of ninth grade students take courses in English, history, and visual or performing arts together. The approach is similar for tenth graders. In the ninth and tenth grades, particular attention is paid to community building, developing strong communication skills, and promoting a healthy lifestyle, good study habits, and effective time management.\nUnder the guidance of a faculty advisor and Upper School Head, students work out a program of study that meets their needs, interests and abilities. Initial placement in math and foreign language varies according to the level of accomplishment each student exhibits. Flexibility in course offerings permits those with particular ability in these areas to move forward at a pace that makes the best educational sense for them. As students progress, they are presented with choices so that they may fashion a largely individualized program in their junior and senior years.\n\nBrooklyn Friends School offers the International Baccalaureate Diploma Program for students in the 11th and 12th grades. This internationally recognized program allows students to explore specific subjects with breadth and depth in six major areas. The curriculum encourages critical thinking through the study of traditional college preparatory curricula while at the same time offers an international perspective. In addition, IB students are required to participate actively in creative activities and community service, as well as completing an individual research project (extended essay) and an inquiry course that delves into the nature of knowledge (Theory of Knowledge course).\n\nThe graduation requirements for the Upper School are:\n\n\nAll students in grades 3-12 take overnight trips as part of the Outdoor Education Program and the foreign language curriculum. Leadership opportunities for Middle and Upper Schoolers include the Model United Nations, student judiciary, El Club Latino, the Social Action Committee, and the Building Committee.\n\nStudents take a hands-on approach in addressing social issues, participating in age-appropriate projects: Preschoolers might bake food for senior citizens; Lower Schoolers might hold a read-a-thon fundraiser for local, national or international humanitarian groups; Middle Schoolers might share their computer skills with senior citizens; and Upper Schoolers volunteer directly with community organizations. All Upper School students are required to perform 100 hours of community service — 20 hours in the school, and 80 out in the community.\n\nThe Middle School Student Council represents the Middle School in governing matters. The Upper School Student Senate, consisting of elected representatives from each grade, makes recommendations to the administration and conducts monthly \"town meetings,\" organizes dances and other social events. Work on the Student Senate helps students focus on their strengths and leadership abilities, improve their public speaking skills, and work collaboratively with others. Composed of a President, Vice President, Secretary, Treasurer and the president and senator of each grade, the Senate also coordinates student clubs and activities that meet weekly. Upper School students also annually participate in the Quaker Youth Leadership Conference, a nationwide conference affording students and faculty an opportunity to discuss leadership issues, school missions, and community issues both schoolwide and worldwide.\n\nBrooklyn Friends has an athletics program including Middle and Upper School divisions (7th-12th grades). The program consists of over 35 teams and athletic clubs. BFS team sports include cross country, soccer, volleyball, basketball, indoor track, squash, swimming, baseball, outdoor track and softball. The school competes in the ACIS and ISAL independent school leagues. Brooklyn Friends School has sent teams to the New York State Tournament in boys' varsity soccer, girls' varsity volleyball, and boys' varsity basketball. In 1997 the boys' varsity soccer team won the NYSAIS Championship and in 2003 the boys' varsity basketball team won the NYSAIS Championship.\n\nEvery school day begins with a few minutes of silence in the classroom. Middle and Upper School students also attend Quaker Meeting for Worship once a week, in the historic Schermerhorn Street Meeting House. At Quaker Meeting for Worship, students and faculty sit in silence, and if they feel moved to say something, they stand and speak. The practice is intended to add a spiritual dimension to the educational experience and encourages student to be thoughtful, active listeners. \nAt Brooklyn Friends School, Upper School students gain an intellectual understanding of Quakerism and world religions through required courses in religion, ethics, and Quakerism.\n\n\n\nNotes\n\n"}
{"id": "2010120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010120", "title": "Khanate (album)", "text": "Khanate (album)\n\nKhanate is the debut album by Khanate. The album was released in 2001 through Southern Lord Records.\n\nA CDR demo edition titled \"tektonikdoom\", of which only 20 in yellow vellum were made, was released prior to the release of the actual album. On some copies of the demo, \"Pieces of Quiet\" was titled \"Quiet Time\". It was also released on LP with 900 black and 100 transsmoke 220g records being pressed. Julian Cope described this record as an \"orchestrated root-canal\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2010125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010125", "title": "Hornstine v. Township of Moorestown", "text": "Hornstine v. Township of Moorestown\n\nHornstine v. Moorestown, 263 F. Supp. 2d 887 (D.N.J. 2003), was a 2003 case in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey that considered whether grades received by a student with a disability for classes where accommodations had been made under an Individualized Education Program could be discounted in awarding valedictorian honors. Blair Hornstine, then in her final year at Moorestown High School, sued the Moorestown Township (New Jersey) Public Schools Board of Education to stop them \"from retroactively applying to her a proposed policy amendment that would allow the designation of multiple valedictorians\". Under the then existing school policy, Hornstine would have been the sole recipient of the honor.\n\nUnder the published school board policy for the 2002-2003 academic year, the graduating senior student with the highest seventh semester weighted grade point average (GPA) was to be named the valedictorian, and the second highest student was to be named the salutatorian.\nAt the end of the fall 2002 semester, the seventh for her class, Hornstine had the highest weighted grade point average in the senior class, 4.689, a score 0.055 higher than the runner-up's 4.634.\n\nIn the fall of 2002, Moorestown Superintendent of Schools Paul J. Kadri was approached by \"parents, students, and other community members\" who complained that \"students were not provided equal opportunities to earn the awards\" because of accommodations granted to Hornstine. Kadri held meetings at the high school in early 2003 in which he discussed changing the school policy to allow multiple valedictorians. In April, Kadri proposed an amendment to the existing policy that read \"In determining the recipients of [the awards of valedictorian and salutatorian], the Board may review the program of study, manner of instruction, and other relevant issues, and in its discretion, with the assistance of the administration, may designate multiple valedictorians and/or salutatorians to ensure that all students have an equal opportunity to compete for these awards.\" The proposal was to be voted on by the school board on May 12.\n\nOn May 1, Hornstine filed a complaint in Federal District Court seeking an injunction to prevent the school board from changing its policy retroactively, as well as $2.7 million in damages. Kadri sent a letter to the runner-up advising him he was under consideration for valedictorian honors. Kadri sent no similar letter to Hornstine.\n\nBlair Hornstine was classified with a disability, reportedly a type of chronic fatigue syndrome or immune deficiency, but its exact nature was never disclosed publicly. She received an Individualized Education Plan (IEP) approved by the school board. Kadri contended that because of the \"availability of many AP courses in her home instruction program\" Hornstine \"was able to earn more 'weighted' grades\" than other students. Moorestown High School assigned a higher weight to Advanced Placement (AP) courses and honors courses in calculating a student's GPA. An A+ grade, worth 4 point towards the GPA in a regular course, counted as 5 points in an AP course and 4.5 points in an honors course. Kadri further claimed \"she was also able to secure higher grades in her home instruction classes than students enrolled in the same courses at Moorestown High School.\"\n\nThe court rejected those claims pointing out that the runner up had taken two more AP courses than Hornstine, and while she had taken three more honors courses than the runner up, the net result was a statistical advantage for the runner up. The Court also examined and rejected claims that she was graded less stringently.\n\nSuperintendent Kadri claimed that Hornstine's father, a New Jersey Superior Court judge in Camden County, had told him in September that \"he was going to manipulate rules designed to protect disabled students for the purpose of allowing to win the valedictorian award\". Judge Hornstine denied making those statements and the assistant superintendent of schools, Judithann Keefe, who was present at the September meeting, filed an affidavit contradicting her boss and supporting Judge Hornstine's account of what was said there.\n\nLocal and later national media focused intense attention on the case, leading to talk-radio scorn and an online petition calling for Harvard University to revoke Hornstine's admission to the school. Following investigation, Harvard University did revoke her admission after finding that Hornstine had plagiarized an essay she had written for a local paper.\n\nOn May 8, 2003, U.S. District Judge Freda Wolfson ordered the Moorestown school district to follow its existing policy and name Blair Hornstine the sole valedictorian for the class of 2003. Wolfson wrote, \"Ms. Hornstine earned her distinction as the top student in her class in spite of, not because of, her disability\".\n\nThe Court found that Hornstine met the conditions for issuing an injunction, including a likelihood of prevailing on the merits of her case. In addition to finding that \"the Board's proposed action was intended and designed to have a particular exclusionary effect on plaintiff because of her disabled status,\" the Court cited a ruling by the New Jersey Commissioner of Education, in a case where there was no disability issue, that barred a retroactive change to requirements for the award of valedictorian.\n\nOn June 10, Hornstine, through her lawyer, Edwin Jacobs, informed the school that she would not attend graduation, which was held on June 19, and requested her valedictorian award be made in absentia, saying \"the hostile environment at the school has traumatized Blair both physically and emotionally\". Her house had been hit by eggs and paintballs, and she received a threatening letter. Hornstine's claim for compensatory and punitive damages was settled on August 19 for $60,000, including $45,000 in legal fees.\n\n"}
{"id": "2010129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010129", "title": "Vashakidze (crater)", "text": "Vashakidze (crater)\n\nVashakidze is a lunar impact crater that is located on the Moon's far side, just beyond the northeastern limb. This area of the surface is not completely hidden from the Earth, however, as suitable combinations of libration and sunlight will bring it into view. The southeastern rim of this crater grazes the outer rim of the huge walled plain Harkhebi. It lies to the southeast of the crater Boss and to the northeast of the ruined walled plain Riemann.\n\nThis crater has a well-defined rim that has not suffered much wear from impact erosion. It is roughly circular, with outward bulges to the south and east, giving it a slightly skewed appearance. The inner wall displays some slumping along the edges, particularly to the north and southeast, but little terrace development. The interior floor is relatively level with some irregularities in the eastern half.\n\n"}
{"id": "2010139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010139", "title": "Paul Hackett (politician)", "text": "Paul Hackett (politician)\n\nLieutenant Colonel Paul Lewis Hackett III (born October 21, 1963) is a lawyer and veteran of the Iraq War who unsuccessfully sought election to the United States Congress from the Second District of Ohio in the August 2, 2005, special election. Hackett, a Democrat, narrowly lost to Republican Jean Schmidt, a former member of the Ohio House of Representatives, providing the best showing in the usually solidly Republican district by any Democrat since the 1974 election. Hackett's campaign attracted national attention and substantial expenditures by both parties. It was viewed by some observers as the first round of the 2006 elections. In October 2005, Hackett said he would seek the Democratic nomination in 2006 to challenge incumbent U.S. Senator Mike DeWine; however, he dropped out of the race on February 14, 2006, and said that he would return to his law practice.\n\nOn April 9, 2009, Hackett, acting as defense counsel to Sgt. Ryan Weemer, USMC, obtained an acquittal on charges of murdering an insurgent in Fallujah on November 9, 2004, the Second Battle of Fallujah's first day. Weemer had contacted Hackett two years earlier after he had successfully represented other Marines charged with violations of the law of war in Haditha in November 2005. Hackett represented Weemer pro bono. When asked why, Hackett stated that \"these Marines protected me when I was in Fallujah, it's the least I could do.\" The trial lasted two weeks after which the 8 member court martial deliberated for 8 hours and announced its decision acquitting Weemer of all charges and specifications, to unpremeditated murder and dereliction of duty. Weemer's acquittal was awarded by the 8 member jury despite the government's introduction into evidence of Weemer's audio confession to the alleged violations of war. Despite the audio confession, the 8 member jury was persuaded by Hackett's argument and through his cross examination of NCIS Special Agent Fox that Weemer had been coerced into confessing to the charged offenses by his interrogators; namely NCIS Special Agent Fox.\n\nThis is the only known instance in American Jurisprudence that a jury acquitted a defendant of murder charges after the acceptance into evidence by the trial court and publication to the jury of the defendant's alleged audio confession.\n\nHackett, who \"The New York Times\" said is six foot two and \"garrulous, profane, and quick with a barked retort or a mischievous joke\", was born in Cleveland, Ohio, the son of Paul and Beth Hackett, who lived at the time in Gates Mills. When an infant, his family moved to West Palm Beach, Florida, where his father worked for the Pratt and Whitney aircraft engine company. Before Hackett started school, his family returned to Ohio when his father took a job with the General Electric Company's aircraft engine division in Evendale, a Cincinnati suburb. Hackett lived in the Ohio towns of Wyoming, Montgomery and Indian Hill, and attended the Seven Hills School and Indian Hill High School.\n\nHe has a B.A. from Case Western Reserve University and a J.D. from the Cleveland-Marshall College of Law at Cleveland State University. Hackett also attended American University in Washington, D.C., studying under the university's Washington Semester program in Journalism. Hackett was admitted to the Ohio bar on November 7, 1988, and practices law in downtown Cincinnati with the Hackett Law Office, which he opened in 1994. Additionally, Hackett was admitted to the Colorado bar on April 26, 2016.\n\nHackett saw active duty in the United States Marine Corps from 1989 to 1992, and then joined the Select Marine Corps Reserve. In 2004, he volunteered for active duty in the Iraq War, spending seven months as a civil affairs officer with the 4th Civil Affairs Group of the 1st Marine Division. He was assigned to Ramadi and supported the Fallujah campaign and reconstruction efforts there. On October 21, 2004, a convoy under his command was hit by two roadside bombs, but Hackett was uninjured. He returned to Ohio in early 2005.\n\nAs of January 2019 Hackett continues to serve in the United State Marine Corps Reserves. He is believed to be the oldest serving Marine to score a perfect score on the rigorous Marine Corps Physical Fitness Test and Combat Fitness Test.\n\nHackett is married to Suzanne (Suzi) C. Hackett. They have three children, Grace (born 1997), Seamus (born 2000), and Liam (born 2003). The family lives in Indian Hill, an affluent Cincinnati suburb, on a small farm along the Little Miami River built in 1802.\n\nHackett was elected to the city council of Milford, Ohio, a city in Clermont and Hamilton Counties, in 1995 to replace Chris Imbus, who was recalled from office by a vote of 410 to 86. In the recall election on May 2, he defeated businessman Jacques E. Smith by a vote of 388 to 81. On the Milford council, he opposed efforts to rezone a parcel of land in order to retain the Milford post office within the city limits. He resigned from the council in September 1998 to devote more time to his family and his law practice and was replaced on the council by James Gradolf. When Hackett purchased a home in Indian Hill in 2000, the purchase made \"The Cincinnati Enquirer\"'s column of most expensive real-estate transactions in the area.\n\nHackett decided to run for Congress because \"with all that this country has given me, I felt it wasn't right for me to be enjoying life in Indian Hill when Marines were fighting and dying in Iraq,\" he told \"The Cincinnati Post\". Hackett told the \"Dayton Daily News\" his friend Mike Brautigam, who met him at the airport upon his return, had told him Rob Portman, congressman since 1993, was resigning to become United States Trade Representative and Hackett should run for his seat. Hackett decided to enter the race before reaching home.\n\nHackett faced Republican nominee Jean Schmidt in the August 2, 2005, special election. Schmidt, a former schoolteacher described by \"The New York Times\" as \"small, wiry, and intense, she exudes seriousness\", had been a township trustee in northwestern Clermont County's populous Miami Township for eleven years before four years in the Ohio House of Representatives.\n\nThe district was a Republican one. In 2004, 64 percent of the vote in the presidential election went to George W. Bush. Rob Portman never got less than 70 percent of the vote in his campaigns, no Democrat had received more than 38 percent since Thomas A. Luken's narrow loss to Willis D. Gradison in 1974, and no Democrat had won the district in a regular general election since John J. Gilligan in 1964. (Luken held the seat in 1974 after winning a special election to replace William J. Keating, who resigned, but lost the November election for a full term.) Amy Walter of the \"Cook Political Report\" said the Second District was the fifty-seventh most Republican in America.\n\nJohn Green, a political science professor at the University of Akron in northeast Ohio told \"USA Today\" \"It's a real steep uphill climb for him. It is such a Republican district.\" Jane S. Anderson, an adjunct professor of political science at the University of Cincinnati who has unsuccessfully run for the Cincinnati city council and the Ohio House as a Democrat, told the Associated Press\n\nHackett was undaunted by the Republican composition of the district, claiming:\n\nMartin Gottlieb, editor of the \"Dayton Daily News\" editorial page, wrote a Republican landslide in the district was \"a self-fulfilling prophecy\":\n\nHackett criticized Jean Schmidt as a \"rubber stamp\" for Ohio Governor Bob Taft's \"failed policies\" and said she would continue in that role for George W. Bush if elected. At their debate at Chatfield College, he said \"If you think America is on the right track and we need more of the same, I'm not your candidate\" and asked \"Are you better off today than you were five years ago?\", echoing Ronald Reagan's question in his debate with Jimmy Carter in 1980. \"Rubber stamp\" was Hackett's catchphrase throughout the campaign. Hackett even appeared in front of the Hathaway Rubber Stamp store in downtown Cincinnati on July 27, to emphasize the point.\n\n\"If you think America needs another career politician steeped in a culture of corruption who does as she's told and tows [sic] the line on failed policies, then I'm not your candidate,\" he wrote in a guest column for \"The Cincinnati Post\". Hackett hammered on Schmidt's ethics. When she denied she knew or ever met Thomas Noe, at the center of the Coingate scandal at the Ohio Bureau of Workers' Compensation, Hackett produced minutes from a meeting of the Ohio Board of Regents that showed Schmidt had indeed met with Noe, once a regent.\n\nHe laid out his positions in that \"Post\" column:\n\nHackett was highly critical of his opponent's record. On June 12, he went to Nicola's Ristorante on Sycamore Street in Cincinnati's Over-the-Rhine neighborhood to call attention to Schmidt and other members of the Ohio General Assembly having accepted dinner there and Cincinnati Bengals tickets from a lobbyist for pharmaceutical company Chiron, Richard B. Colby, on October 24, 2004 and failing to report the gifts on their financial disclosure statements. (The others were Representatives Jim Raussen of Springdale, Michelle G. Schneider of Madeira, and Diana M. Fessler of New Carlisle.) \"What will she do in Washington when she's around real big money?\" Hackett asked.\n\n\"The Cincinnati Enquirer\" ran a front page story on July 2, reporting on the candidates financial disclosure statements that revealed both were millionaires. Hackett was worth between $650,000 and $1,600,000, while Schmidt was worth between $1,700,000 and $6,800,000, most of her wealth in the form of a real estate company owned with her three siblings, RTJJ, LLC. These figures did not include the value of either's home. The Hamilton County Auditor valued Hackett's home on at $552,800 and the Clermont County Auditor valued Schmidt's home on at $138,510.\n\nHackett told \"The Enquirer\", \"I'm a self-made guy. I didn't inherit it. I didn't marry for it. What you see is what I made in the last decade.\" The newspaper noted the median household income in the district was $46,813. Schmidt used her own wealth in the campaign. She told \"The Cincinnati Post\" the week before the election she put $200,000 of her money in the campaign that she had planned to use to buy a condominium in Florida.\n\nHackett was a strong advocate for the Second Amendment, but nevertheless lost the endorsement of the National Rifle Association to Jean Schmidt. Hackett, a long-time NRA member and holder of a concealed carry permit, told \"The Enquirer\" \"I don't know what I have to do. I've gone against the grain in the Democratic party. There isn't a bigger gun enthusiast than me.\" (A spokesman for the NRA said the endorsement was based on Schmidt's voting record in the Ohio House and that Hackett, having only served on a city council, did not have the voting record Schmidt did.) Schmidt also won the endorsements of the Fraternal Order of Police. The FOP's Keith Fangman criticized Hackett: \"He has a track record of filing frivolous and malicious lawsuits against law enforcement officers in Clermont County,\" said Fangman because Hackett had represented a plaintiff in a suit against a Clermont County police officer. \"That's what lawyers do,\" Hackett told \"The Cincinnati Enquirer\". \"We're not in the business of filing lawsuits we know are frivolous or malicious.\"\n\nBoth candidates talked of the environment. Hackett paddled down the Ohio River to call attention to its condition. Schmidt called for reducing America's dependence on foreign oil by increasing use of ethanol and drilling in Alaska's Arctic National Wildlife Refuge. Hackett opposed drilling in ANWR.\n\nThe candidates participated in only two debates. The first was held on July 7, at Chatfield College in St. Martin in Brown County, moderated by Jack Atherton of WXIX-TV, the Fox Network affiliate in Cincinnati. Hackett told the audience his opponent was \"a rubber stamp for failed policies\" and \"if you think America is on the right track and we need more of the same, I'm not your candidate.\" The second debate was held July 26, at the Ohio Valley Career and Technical School in West Union in Adams County. Howard Wilkinson of \"The Cincinnati Enquirer\" said Hackett in the second debate was \"trying to paint Schmidt as a Taft-Bush robot.\" The two also made joint appearances on WCET-TV's \"Forum\" on July 28, and WKRC-TV's \"Newsmakers\" on July 31.\n\nHackett held campaign rallies in Waverly in the far eastern end of the district on July 11,; in Loveland on July 19,; Mariemont on July 20,; and Lebanon, the northernmost part of the district, on July 21. Hackett arrived at many events on his Harley-Davidson motorcycle.\n\nHackett attracted national attention to what had always been considered a safe Republican district. \"The New York Times\" ran a front-page story on him and articles appeared in \"USA Today\" and \"The Washington Post\". \"USA Today\" wrote \"if Democrats could design a dream candidate to capitalize on national distress about the war in Iraq, he would look a lot like the tall, telegenic Marine Reserve major who finished a seven-month tour of Iraq in March.\"\n\nSchmidt made the Iraq War an issue in the race. She declared on WCET-TV's \"Forum\" that \"9/11 was a wakeup call. We lost our innocence\" and praised the Bush foreign policy. \"The foundation of democracy that has been planted in Afghanistan and Iraq\", she said, has inspired reforms in Saudi Arabia, Syria, Lebanon, and elsewhere. Schmidt always appeared in public with a button in her lapel containing a photograph of Matt Maupin, the only prisoner of war of the Iraq campaign. Hackett did not mince words about Iraq or President Bush. He told \"The New York Times\" Bush was \"a chicken hawk\" for pursuing the war after having avoided military service in the Vietnam War. \"The Times\" also quoted him as saying Bush was \"the greatest threat to America.\" Hackett in the West Union debate contrasted what President Bush had said in the 2000 presidential debates to current events. \"Guess what folks? We're nation-building!\"\n\nOn July 19, Democratic campaign operative James Carville appeared at a fund-raiser for Hackett in downtown Cincinnati that raised $100,000. On July 21, Max Cleland, formerly a United States Senator from Georgia, campaigned for Hackett at a rally in Blue Ash. John Glenn, the astronaut who later represented Ohio in the United States Senate, sent out an e-mail asking Democrats to volunteer for Hackett, and Glenn campaigned with him on July 30, in Cincinnati. Retired general and presidential candidate Wesley Clark also endorsed Hackett. Hackett also received campaign contributions from the Association of Trial Lawyers of America, the United Auto Workers, Cincinnati Bengals owner Mike Brown, and talk show host and former Cincinnati mayor Jerry Springer.\n\nDemocratic National Committee chairman Howard Dean sent out an e-mail appeal for Hackett which, combined with work by bloggers, helped raise over $475,000 in online contributions for Hackett, making him the first Democratic nominee in the Second District in years who could afford television advertisements. Hackett's ad began with a clip of President George W. Bush speaking to troops at Fort Bragg, North Carolina, on June 28, 2005, \"There is no higher calling than service in our armed forces.\" Hackett's commercial then noted his service in the Marine Corps. \"The Washington Post\" noted the commercial \"avoids any hint that the lawyer is a Democrat.\" Republicans were displeased. The Republican National Committee's lawyers wrote him saying the commercial deceived the public with \"the false impression the President has endorsed your candidacy.\" Robert T. Bennett, chairman of the Ohio Republican Party, told \"The Cincinnati Post\" the commercials were \"a blatant effort to dupe voters.\"\n\nThe National Republican Congressional Committee, the official Republican Party body that helps candidates for the United States House of Representatives, announced on July 28, it was spending $265,000 for television ads in the Cincinnati market, covering the western part of the district, and $250,000 for ads in the Huntington, West Virginia, market, covering the eastern half. Carl Forti told \"The Cincinnati Enquirer\" \"we decided to bury him\" after Hackett told \"USA Today\", in a story published that morning, \"I don't like the son-of-a-bitch that lives in the White House but I'd put my life on the line for him.\" Forti said the NRCC had \"no concern that she will lose. She will not lose.\"\n\nThe NRCC ran commercials noting Hackett had voted for tax increases while on the Milford council and quoting his statement on his website that he would be \"happy\" to pay higher taxes. The full quotation, in regards to raising the cap of $90,000 that Social Security payroll taxes are levied on was\n\nDemocratic Congressional Campaign Committee, the NRCC's counterpart, responded with commercials noting that Schmidt had voted to raise the sales tax by 20 percent and the excise tax on gasoline by 30 percent when she was in the legislature. A mailing to voters by the DCCC reiterated these statements under the headline \"Who Voted for the Taft Sales Tax Increase—the Largest in Ohio History?\" and asked \"can we trust Jean Schmidt to protect middle-class families in Washington?\"\n\nThe Coalition Opposed to Additional Spending and Taxes, a Cincinnati-based group founded by Tom Brinkman (who lost the GOP primary to Schmidt), began running ads in the last week of July urging voters to skip the election. COAST's president, Jim Urling, told \"The Cincinnati Enquirer\" that this might help elect Hackett, but \"we think it will be easier to remove a Democrat next year than an incumbent Republican posing as a conservative.\"\n\nIn the general election, the Democratic \"Dayton Daily News\" endorsed Hackett. The \"Daily News\" said Schmidt's attacks on Senators R. Michael DeWine and George V. Voinovich were \"remarkably classless\" and \"seemed to be saying that voters who like legislators who exercise occasional independence from their party should not vote for her.\" The \"Daily News\" said Hackett was \"not your classic suburban liberal\" and urged \"voter[s] looking for something beyond a conventional political background\" to support him. \"The Cincinnati Post\" also endorsed Hackett. It noted Schmidt is the latest in a line of \"Republican patricians\" and \"likely to be a dependable vote for the Bush administration\" whereas Hackett is a gust of fresh air. If we had to put a label on him, it would be Libertarian Democrat. He says what he thinks and doesn't seem to have much use for the orthodoxy or the partisanship of either party.\"\n\n\"The Cincinnati Enquirer\" wrote\n\nUltimately, the newspaper did not endorse Hackett. \"The 2nd District will get a capable representative no matter which candidate prevails Tuesday. But it should get more local bang for its electoral buck if it sends Jean Schmidt to Washington,\" wrote the editors.\n\nHackett ultimately lost by a narrow margin, only 3.27 percent, the best showing of any Democrat in the district since 1974. These were the final certified numbers as reported on the Ohio Secretary of State's website.\n\nHoward Wilkinson wrote in \"The Cincinnati Enquirer\" the morning after the election \"the fact that Paul Hackett made it a very close election is nothing short of astounding... com[ing] close to pulling off a monumental political upset.\" Hackett won in the eastern, rural counties of Pike, Scioto, Brown, and Adams, while Schmidt won in the populous western counties of Clermont, Hamilton, and Warren. \"The Cincinnati Post\" editorialized Hackett's success in the eastern counties was in part from \"the increasingly desperate struggle in rural areas to provide enough decent jobs for those who want them.\"\n\nFollowing the election, many Democrats hailed the election as showing the weakness of Ohio's Republican party, which had been in control of Ohio state government for a decade, and public unhappiness with President Bush's policies. Hamilton County Democratic chairman Timothy Burke was delighted. \"Paul was very critical of this president in a district that Bush carried easily last November, yet she barely hung on to win. There's a clear signal in that,\" he told \"The Cincinnati Post\" on election night. The Clermont County Democratic chairman, Dave Lane, told the \"Dayton Daily News\" \"Here we are in the reddest of red districts and it was very, very close.\"\n\nThe Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee claimed in a press release Hackett's strong showing meant trouble for Senator DeWine's re-election campaign in 2006, especially since his son R. Patrick DeWine had lost the Republican primary for the seat. \"If Ohio is a bellwether state for next year's midterm elections, things don't look too good for the Republicans\", claimed the DSCC. Republicans said the election meant nothing of the sort. \"There is no correlation between what happens in a special election, where turnout is very low and you have circumstances that just aren't comparable to an election that happens on an Election Day in an election year,\" Brian Nick of the National Republican Senatorial Committee told \"The Cincinnati Post\".\n\n\"The Columbus Dispatch\" referred to \"the trauma of barely winning a Congressional district long dominated by Republicans\" and quoted an anonymous source in the Republican party claiming \"there is not a tougher environment in the country than Ohio right now. There is kind of a meltdown happening.\" Amy Walter of the \"Cook Political Report\" told the \"Dispatch\" \"Ohio becomes the microcosm for the debate Democrats are trying to have nationally\" and Democrats would argue in future campaigns \"'See what happens when one party rules too long, see what happens with corruption and insider influence.'\" Her boss, Charlie Cook, told \"The Los Angeles Times\" Hackett's \"rubber stamp\" charge had resonated with Ohio voters.\n\nPeter W. Bronson, a conservative columnist for \"The Cincinnati Enquirer\", wrote \"Hackett's surprising finish was less a repudiation of Bush than a repudiation of Ohio Governor Bob Taft, whose name is now officially radioactive poison.\" Bronson admitted Hackett \"ran a strong campaign\" but said he did so well only because of \"the ugly primary\" on the Republican side, fears that Schmidt was \"another Taft RINO\" (i.e., \"Republican In Name Only\"), and apathy by Republican voters, not dissatisfaction with Bush or Republicans in general.\n\nJohn Nichols of \"The Capital Times\" (Madison, Wisconsin) saw it differently. \"The district had been so radically gerrymandered by Republican governors and legislators that it was all but unrecognizable that a Democrat could ever be competitive there\" and Hackett, \"a smart telegenic Iraq war veteran,\" had been \"swift-boated\" in the final days of the campaign by Republican operatives and \"right-wing talk hosts\" such as Rush Limbaugh.\n\nMark Steyn, a conservative columnist who writes for \"National Review\" magazine, wrote in the \"Irish Times\" \"Paul Hackett was like a fast-forward version of the John Kerry campaign\" who \"artfully neglected to mention the candidate was a Democrat.\" Steyn claimed any Democratic efforts to present Hackett's run as a success for the party were absurd.\n\nHackett told \"The Cincinnati Post\" he stood by his criticisms of George W. Bush:\n\nOne voter turned off was veteran Arthur Smith of Loveland, whose letter to the editor in \"The Cincinnati Enquirer\" on August 5, said Hackett\n\nJerome Armstrong stated in TomPaine.com that the returns tapped into the growing movement within the Democratic Party willing to take the Republicans head on about the direction of this nation.\n\nFormer President Bill Clinton recognized Hackett in an October 23, 2006, speech saying \"I hope Paul Hackett sees that his courage to make people see the truth about our policy in Iraq, is now sweeping the nation.\"\n\nHackett on October 24, 2005, announced he would seek the Democratic nomination to challenge incumbent United States Senator Mike DeWine after rejecting a second run against Schmidt. Sherrod Brown, a congressman from northern Ohio and two-term Ohio Secretary of State, had rejected efforts by the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee to recruit him to the race in the summer of 2005 and had on August 17, publicly declared he would not run. But after Hackett's announcement, Brown changed his mind and declared he would run, angering Hackett who claimed Brown had promised him he would stay out of the race, a claim Brown denies.\n\nOn February 13, 2006, Hackett announced that he was withdrawing from the race and ending his political career. Hackett told \"The New York Times\" that Senate Minority Leader Harry Reid and New York Senator Chuck Schumer recently had asked him to withdraw. He further contends that Schumer sabotaged his fundraising efforts and actively worked against his campaign. Hackett said, \"For me, this is a second betrayal...first, my government misused and mismanaged the military in Iraq, and now my own party is afraid to support candidates like me.\" On March 14, 2006, he appeared on an episode of The Daily Show on a segment which satirized the mainstream Democratic Party's criticism of Hackett.\n\nOne issue Hackett faced in his campaign is the status of his Marine Corps Reserve unit, which may deploy back to Iraq during the campaign. Hackett had said he expected to return to Iraq in 2006.\n\nHackett later reconciled with Brown and backed his successful Senate campaign.\n\nFollowing the exit from the Senate race, Hackett declined to enter the race for the Democratic nomination in the 2nd Congressional District against Jean Schmidt, because he promised the Democratic candidates in that race that he would not run. As a result a number of candidates threw their names into the race, and Hackett kept his promise. Therefore, on May 2, Victoria Wulsin (who came second to Hackett in the 2005 Democratic primary to fill the vacancy caused by Portman's resignation) won the Democratic primary to challenge Schmidt. On May 8, \"The Cincinnati Enquirer\" speculated on the possibility that Wulsin would drop out, and allow Hackett to run in her place. This scenario did not occur, so there was no rematch.\n\nAfter withdrawing from the Senate race, Paul Hackett joined the Advisory Board of Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America political action committee (PAC) to support his fellow veterans running for Congress.\n\nHackett has also done some talk radio by substituting for Jerry Springer on his Air America Radio show Springer on the Radio, as well as for Ed Schultz on his show. It is not known whether Hackett wishes to continue working in talk radio.\n\nOn May 30, 2006, Hackett filed a class action lawsuit against the United States Department of Veterans Affairs over the compromise of personal information of 26.5 million veterans which may have fallen into the hands of a thief.\n\n\"After you've been in combat and you survived it, you've got this real energized sense that, 'I can accomplish anything,' and you view your country differently\" he said for \"The Athens Messenger\" in February 2008, during a time he was endorsing anti-war veteran candidates such as J. Ashwin Madia of Minnesota via VoteVets.org, which created anti-war candidacy ads on the Internet, opposite Iraq Vets for Congress.\n\nOn February 17, 2010, Hackett endorsed Surya Yalamanchili in the Democratic primary for the Second District of Ohio.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2010162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010162", "title": "Equatorial Africa", "text": "Equatorial Africa\n\nEquatorial Africa is an ambiguous term that sometimes is used to refer either to the equatorial region of Sub-Saharan Africa traversed by the Equator, more broadly to tropical Africa or in a biological and geo-environmental sense to the intra-tropical African rainforest region.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2010169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010169", "title": "Marsha P. Johnson", "text": "Marsha P. Johnson\n\nMarsha P. Johnson (August 24, 1945 – July 6, 1992) was an American gay liberation activist and self-identified drag queen. Known as an outspoken advocate for gay rights, Johnson was one of the prominent figures in the Stonewall uprising of 1969. A founding member of the Gay Liberation Front, Johnson co-founded the gay and transvestite advocacy organization S.T.A.R. (Street Transvestite Action Revolutionaries), alongside close friend Sylvia Rivera. A popular figure in New York City's gay and art scene, Johnson modeled for Andy Warhol, and performed onstage with the drag performance troupe Hot Peaches. Known for decades as a welcoming presence in the streets of Greenwich Village, Johnson was known as the \"mayor of Christopher Street\". From 1987 through 1992, Johnson was an AIDS activist with ACT UP.\n\nJohnson was born Malcolm Michaels Jr. on August 24, 1945, in Elizabeth, New Jersey, with six siblings and a father, Malcolm Michaels Sr., who was an assembly line worker at General Motors. Johnson's mother, Alberta Claiborne, was a housekeeper. Johnson attended an African Methodist Episcopal Church as a child and remained devoutly religious in later life, often taking an interest in Catholicism, but also making offerings to the saints in a personal manner, keeping a private altar at home. Johnson first began wearing dresses at the age of five but stopped temporarily due to harassment by boys who lived nearby. In a 1992 interview, Johnson described being the young victim of sexual assault by an adolescent boy. After this, Johnson described the idea of being gay as \"some sort of dream\", rather than something that seemed possible, and so chose to remain asexual until leaving for New York City at 17. Johnson's mother reportedly said that being homosexual is like being \"lower than a dog\", but Johnson said that Alberta was unaware of the LGBT community. After graduating from the former Edison High School (now the Thomas A. Edison Career and Technical Academy) in Elizabeth in 1963, Johnson left home for New York City with $15 and a bag of clothes. Johnson waited on tables after moving to Greenwich Village in 1966. After meeting gay people in the city, Johnson finally felt it was possible to be gay and was able to come out.\n\nJohnson initially used the moniker \"Black Marsha\" but later decided on the drag queen name \"Marsha P. Johnson\", getting \"Johnson\" from the restaurant Howard Johnson's on 42nd Street, stating that the \"P\" stood for \"pay it no mind\" and used the phrase sarcastically when questioned about gender, saying \"it stands for pay it no mind\". Johnson said the phrase once to a judge, who was humored by it, leading to Johnson's release. Johnson variably identified as gay, as a transvestite, and as a queen (referring to drag queen). According to Susan Stryker, a professor of human gender and sexuality studies at the University of Arizona, Johnson's gender expression could perhaps most accurately be called \"gender non-conforming\"; Johnson never self-identified with the term \"transgender\", but the term was also not in broad use while Johnson was alive.\n\nJohnson's style of drag was not serious (\"high drag\" or \"show drag\") due to being unable to afford to purchase clothing from expensive stores. Johnson received leftover flowers after sleeping under tables used for sorting flowers in the Flower District of Manhattan, and was known for wearing crowns of fresh flowers. Johnson was tall, slender and often dressed in flowing robes and shiny dresses, red plastic high heels and bright wigs, which tended to draw attention. As Edmund White writes in his 1979 Village Voice article, \"The Politics of Drag\" Johnson also liked dressing in ways that would display \"the interstice between masculine and feminine\". A feature photo of Johnson in this article shows Johnson in a flowing wig and makeup, and a translucent shirt, pants and parka - highlighting the ways that, quoting Kate Millett's Sexual Politics, White says, \"she is both masculine and feminine at once.\"\n\nThere is some existing footage of Johnson doing full, glamorous, \"high drag\" on stage, but most of Johnson's performance work was with groups that were more grassroots, comedic, and political. Johnson sang and performed as a member of J. Camicias' international, NYC-based, drag performance troupe, Hot Peaches, from 1972 through to shows in the 1990s. When The Cockettes, a similar drag troupe from San Francisco, formed an East Coast troupe, The Angels of Light, Johnson was also asked to perform with them. In 1973, Johnson performed the role of \"The Gypsy Queen\" in the Angels' production, \"The Enchanted Miracle\", about the Comet Kohoutek. In 1975, Johnson was photographed by famed artist Andy Warhol, as part of a \"Ladies and Gentlemen\" series of Polaroids. In 1990, Johnson performed with The Hot Peaches in London. Now an AIDS activist, Johnson also appears in The Hot Peaches production \"The Heat\" in 1990, singing the song \"Love\" while wearing an ACT UP, \"Silence = Death\" button.\n\nJohnson was one of the first drag queens to go to the Stonewall Inn, after they began allowing women and drag queens inside; it was previously a bar for only gay men. On the early morning hours of June 28, 1969, the Stonewall uprising occurred. While the first two nights of rioting were the most intense, the clashes with police would result in a series of spontaneous demonstrations and marches through the gay neighborhoods of Greenwich Village for roughly a week afterwards.\n\nJohnson has been named, along with Zazu Nova and Jackie Hormona, by a number of the Stonewall veterans interviewed by David Carter in his book, \"Stonewall: The Riots That Sparked the Gay Revolution\", as being \"three individuals known to have been in the vanguard\" of the pushback against the police at the uprising. Johnson denied starting the uprising. In 1987, Johnson recalled arriving at around \"2:00 [that morning]\", that \"the riots had already started\" by that time and that the Stonewall building \"was on fire\" after cops set it on fire. The riots reportedly started at around 1:20 that morning after Stormé DeLarverie fought back against the police officer who attempted to arrest her that night.\n\nCarter writes that Robin Souza had reported that fellow Stonewall veterans and gay activists such as Morty Manford and Marty Robinson had told Souza that on the first night, Johnson \"threw a shot glass at a mirror in the torched bar screaming, 'I got my civil rights'\". Souza told the Gay Activists Alliance shortly afterwards that it \"was the shot glass that was heard around the world\". Carter, however, concluded that Robinson had given several different accounts of the night and in none of the accounts were Johnson's name brought up, possibly in fear that if he publicly credited the uprising to Johnson, then Johnson's well-known mental state and gender nonconforming, \"could have been used effectively by the movement's opponents\". The alleged \"shot glass\" incident has also been heavily disputed. Prior to Carter's book, it was claimed Johnson had \"thrown a brick\" at a police officer, an account that was never verified. Johnson also confirmed not being present at the Stonewall Inn when the rioting broke out, but instead had heard about it and went to get Sylvia Rivera who was at a park uptown sleeping on a bench to tell her about it. However, many have corroborated that on the second night, Johnson climbed up a lamppost and dropped a bag with a brick in it down on a cop car, shattering the windshield.\n\nFollowing the Stonewall uprising, Johnson joined the Gay Liberation Front and participated in the first Christopher Street Liberation Pride rally on the first anniversary of the Stonewall rebellion in June 1970. One of Johnson's most notable direct actions occurred in August 1970, staging a sit-in protest at Weinstein Hall at New York University alongside fellow GLF members after administrators canceled a dance when they found out was sponsored by gay organizations. Shortly after that, Johnson and close friend Sylvia Rivera co-founded the Street Transvestite Action Revolutionaries (STAR) organization (initially titled \"Street Transvestites Actual Revolutionaries\"). The two of them became a visible presence at gay liberation marches and other radical political actions. In 1973, Johnson and Rivera were banned from participating in the gay pride parade by the gay and lesbian committee who were administering the event stating they \"weren't gonna allow drag queens\" at their marches claiming they were \"giving them a bad name\". Their response was to march defiantly ahead of the parade. During a gay rights rally at New York City Hall in the early '70s, photographed by Diana Davies, a reporter asked Johnson why the group was demonstrating, Johnson shouted into the microphone, \"Darling, I want my gay rights now!\"\n\nDuring another incident around this time Johnson was confronted by police officers for hustling in New York. When the officers attempted to perform an arrest, Johnson hit them with a handbag, which contained two bricks. When asked by the judge for an explanation for hustling, Johnson claimed to be trying to secure enough money for a tombstone for Johnson's husband. During a time when same-sex marriage was illegal in the United States, the judge asked what \"happened to this alleged husband\", Johnson responded, \"Pigs killed him\". Initially sentenced to 90 days in prison for the assault, Johnson's lawyer eventually convinced the judge to that Bellevue would be more suitable.\n\nWith Rivera, Johnson established the STAR House, a shelter for gay and trans street kids in 1972, and paid the rent for it with money they made themselves as sex workers. While the House was not focused on performance, Johnson was a \"drag mother\" of STAR House, in the longstanding tradition of chosen family in the Black and Latino LGBT community. Johnson worked to provide food, clothing, emotional support and a sense of family for the young drag queens, trans women, gender nonconformists and other gay street kids living on the Christopher Street docks or in their house on the Lower East Side of New York.\n\nIn the 1980s Johnson continued to play an active part in street activism as a respected organizer and marshal with ACT UP. In 1992, when George Segal's Stonewall memorial was moved to Christopher Street from Ohio to recognize the gay liberation movement, Johnson commented, \"How many people have died for these two little statues to be put in the park to recognize gay people? How many years does it take for people to see that we're all brothers and sisters and human beings in the human race? I mean how many years does it take for people to see that we're all in this rat race together.\"\n\nBy 1966, Johnson lived on the streets and engaged in survival sex. In connection with sex work, Johnson claimed to have been arrested over 100 times, and was also shot once, in the late-1970s. Johnson spoke of first having a mental breakdown in 1970. According to Bob Kohler, Johnson would walk naked up Christopher Street and be taken away for two or three months to be treated with chlorpromazine, an antipsychotic medication. Upon returning, the medication would wear off over the course of one month and Johnson would then return to normal. Between 1980 and Johnson's death in 1992, Johnson lived with a friend Randy Wicker, who invited Johnson to stay the night one time when it was \"very cold out—about 10 degrees [Fahrenheit]\" ().\n\nThough generally regarded as \"generous and warmhearted\" and \"saintly\" under the Marsha persona, Johnson's angry, violent side could sometimes emerge when Johnson was depressed or under severe stress. Some felt that it was more common for this to happen under Johnson's \"male persona as Malcolm\". During those moments when Johnson's violent side emerged, according to an acquaintance Robert Heide, Johnson could be aggressive and short-tempered and speak in a deeper voice and, as Malcolm, would \"become a very nasty, vicious man, looking for fights\". This dual personality of Johnson's has been described as \"a schizophrenic personality at work\". When this happened, Johnson would often get in fights and wind up hospitalized and sedated, and friends would have to organize and raise money to bail Johnson out of jail or try to secure release from places like Bellevue. In the 1979 \"Village Voice\" article, \"The Drag of Politics,\" by Steven Watson, and further elaborated upon by Stonewall historian Carter, it had perhaps been for this reason that other activists had been reluctant at first to credit Johnson for helping to spark the gay liberation movement of the early 1970s. Watson also reported that Johnson's saintly personality was \"volatile\" and listed a roster of gay bars from which Johnson had been banned. At the time of Johnson's death in 1992, Johnson was said to be increasingly sick and in a fragile state, according to Randy Wicker.\n\nShortly after the 1992 pride parade, Johnson's body was discovered floating in the Hudson River. Police initially ruled the death a suicide, but Johnson's friends and other members of the local community insisted Johnson was not suicidal and noted that the back of Johnson's head had a massive wound. According to Sylvia Rivera, their friend Bob Kohler believed Johnson had committed suicide due to an ever-increasing fragile state, which Rivera herself disputed, claiming she and Johnson had \"made a pact\" to \"cross the 'river Jordan' (aka Hudson River) together\". Those who were close to Johnson considered the death suspicious; many claimed that whilst Johnson did struggle mentally, this did not manifest itself as suicidal. Randy Wicker later said that Johnson may have hallucinated and walked into the river, or may have jumped into the river to escape harassers, but stated that Johnson was never suicidal.\n\nSeveral people came forward to say they had seen Johnson harassed by a group of \"thugs\" who had also robbed people. According to Wicker, a witness saw a neighborhood resident fighting with Johnson on July 4, 1992. During the fight he used a homophobic slur, and later bragged to someone at a bar that he had killed a drag queen named Marsha. The witness was not successful in relaying this information to the police. Other locals stated later that law enforcement was not interested in investigating Johnson's death, stating that the case was about a \"gay black man\" and wanting little to do with at the time. Johnson was cremated and following a funeral at a local church, friends released Johnson's ashes over the river. Police allowed Seventh Avenue to be closed while Johnson's ashes were carried to the river.\n\nFormer New York politician Tom Duane fought to reopen the case, because \"Usually when there is a death by suicide the person usually leaves a note. She didn’t leave a note.” In November 2012, activist Mariah Lopez succeeded in getting the New York police department to reopen the case as a possible homicide. After the NYPD reopened the case, the police reclassified Johnson's cause of death from \"suicide\" to undetermined.\n\nIn 2016, Victoria Cruz of the Anti-Violence Project also tried to get Johnson's case reopened, and succeeded in gaining access to previously-unreleased documents and witness statements. She sought out new interviews with witnesses, friends, other activists, and police who had worked the case or been on the force at the time of Johnson's probable murder. Some of her work to find justice for Johnson was filmed by David France for the 2017 documentary, \"The Death and Life of Marsha P. Johnson\".\n\nThe 2012 documentary \"Pay It No Mind – The Life and Times of Marsha P. Johnson\" heavily features segments from a 1992 interview with Johnson, which was filmed shortly before Johnson's death. Many friends of Johnson's from Greenwich Village are interviewed for the documentary.\n\nJohnson appears as a character in two fictional film dramas that are based on real events, including \"Stonewall\" (2015), played by Otoja Abit, and \"Happy Birthday, Marsha!\" (2016), played by Mya Taylor. Both movies are creative interpretations, inspired by the Stonewall uprising.\n\nThe 2017 documentary, \"The Death and Life of Marsha P. Johnson\", follows trans woman Victoria Cruz of the Anti-Violence Project as she investigates Johnson's murder. Like \"Pay It No Mind\", it relies on archival footage and interviews.\n\nNew York City artist Anohni produced multiple tributes to Johnson, including baroque pop band Antony and the Johnsons (named in Johnson's honor), and a 1995 play about Johnson, \"The Ascension of Marsha P. Johnson\".\n\nAmerican drag queen and TV personality RuPaul has called Johnson an inspiration, describing Johnson as \"the true Drag Mother.\" During an episode of his show \"RuPaul's Drag Race\" in 2012, RuPaul told her contestants that Johnson \"paved the way for all of [them]\".\n\nIn 2018 the \"New York Times\" published a belated obituary for Johnson.\n\nA large, painted mural depicting Johnson and Sylvia Rivera went on display in Dallas, Texas in 2019 to commemorate the 50th anniversary of the Stonewall riots. The painting of the \"two pioneers of the gay rights movement\" in front of a transgender flag claims to be the world's largest mural honoring the trans community.\n\nOn May 30, 2019, it was announced that Johnson and Sylvia Rivera would be honored with monuments at Greenwich Village, near the site of the Stonewall club. Construction is rumoured to be completed by 2021. These momuments of Johnson and Rivera will be the world's first to honor transgender activists.\n\nOn May 31, 2019, queer street artists Homo Riot and Suriani created a mural, as part of the WorldPride Mural Project and Stonewall 50 – WorldPride NYC 2019, and dedicated to Queer Liberation, featuring multiple images of Johnson. The mural, located at 2nd Avenue and Houston Street in New York City, was curated by photographer and filmmaker Daniel “Dusty” Albanese.\n\nIn June 2019, Johnson was one of the inaugural fifty American “pioneers, trailblazers, and heroes” inducted on the National LGBTQ Wall of Honor within the Stonewall National Monument (SNM) in New York City’s Stonewall Inn. The SNM is the first U.S. national monument dedicated to LGBTQ rights and history, and the wall's unveiling was timed to take place during the 50th anniversary of the Stonewall riots.\n\nOn February 1, 2020, Governor Andrew Cuomo of New York announced that the East River Park in Brooklyn will be renamed in Johnson's honor. It will be the first New York state park named after an LGBT person.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2010172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010172", "title": "Paul Shortino", "text": "Paul Shortino\n\nPaul Shortino (born May 14, 1953 in Lima, Ohio) is an American rock singer and musician who has sung for several bands, including Rough Cutt/The Cutt, Quiet Riot, Bad Boyz, and Shortino. He briefly recorded with J.K. Northrup as the duo Shortino/Northrup. He has also recorded as a solo artist, writing and performing the song \"E.G.G.M.A.N.\" as the theme for Dr. Eggman in Sonic Adventure 2 for Sega (this song was later revised by Remix Factory in Shadow the Hedgehog as \"E.G.G.M.A.N. Doc Robeatnix Mix\"). In 1985, Shortino recorded lead vocals for the Heavy Metal benefit project Hear 'n Aid. The single from this project, \"Stars\" also features lead vocals by heavy metal singers Ronnie James Dio, Rob Halford, Geoff Tate, Don Dokken, Kevin DuBrow, Eric Bloom and Dave Meniketti.\n\nHe is currently in the band King Kobra and is also performing in the cast of Raiding the Rock Vault at the Hard Rock Hotel and Casino in Las Vegas, Nevada.\n\nHe played the character \"Duke Fame\" in the film This Is Spinal Tap, and reprised this role in the first webisode done by Las Vegas, Nevada-based group Sin City Sinners. Shortino resides in Las Vegas with his wife Carmen and is a regular guest of the Sinners.\n\n\n\"Sacred Place\" (2002)\n\n\"QR\" (1988)\n\n\"Badd Boyz\" (1993)\n\n\n\n\"Stand Or Fall\" (1999)\n\n\n\"King Kobra\" (2011)\n\n\"King Kobra II\" (2013)\n\n\"Burn The Earth\" (2015)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2010173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010173", "title": "Return to the Batcave: The Misadventures of Adam and Burt", "text": "Return to the Batcave: The Misadventures of Adam and Burt\n\nReturn to the Batcave: The Misadventures of Adam and Burt is a 2003 American made-for-television biographical action-comedy film based on the 1966–1968 \"Batman\" television series which features the original stars Adam West and Burt Ward as themselves, with Jack Brewer and Jason Marsden portraying the young West (Batman) and Ward (Robin) in flashbacks. It was broadcast on CBS on March 9, 2003.\n\nAdam West prepares to attend a gala-style charity event targeted towards orphans, featuring a variety of classic cars, including the original Batmobile from \"Batman\". Adam's butler, Jerry (whom Adam refers to as \"Alfred\"), arranges the event and reunites Adam with his former co-star, Burt Ward.\n\nWhile at the gala, Adam reveals to Burt that he had kept the key to the original Batmobile from during the show's original run. As he showcases the key, the lights mysteriously go out, and when they turn back on, both Adam's key and the Batmobile itself are gone. After asking a valet, Adam discovers the thief had been asking for directions toward Arizona. Though Burt is reluctant to follow the perpetrators, Adam manages to coerce him into going on a road-trip in pursuit of the Batmobile.\n\nAs the duo travel down the Arizona roads, Adam and Burt reminisce on their life before the show. Burt recalls a time in which he was homeless, living under the Miami pier and collecting bottles for a living, before he managed to catch his big break after a successful audition as Robin. Adam, on the other hand, remembers how he had to compete against Lyle Waggoner for the role of Batman, only narrowly acquiring the part after the studio executives agreed he had a better jawline.\n\nArriving in Arizona, Adam and Burt stop into a nearby bar to ask about the mysterious Batmobile thief. As Burt steps away to urinate, Adam finds himself momentarily seduced by a mysterious woman, only for her to vanish moments later and a bar-fight to erupt. Defeating their attackers, Adam recalls the sexual tension between him and Julie Newmar, before noticing a frame of the original Batcave frozen onto the bar's television set. Leaving the bar, the duo find their car towed, but instead of a traffic ticket, a mysterious invitation to a movie screening to Batman is present.\n\nAdam and Burt notice during the movie screening that all footage of Batman and Robin have been cut, instead featuring only the villains. During the screening, Burt recalls an incident in which television censors began to criticize the tightness of his Robin briefs, forcing him to take temporary shrinkage pills (implied to be hormone therapy) to decrease his penis size during shooting. At the same time, Adam deals with the painful memories of his divorce and ostracisation from his children.\n\nAfter the screening, the duo follow an oil slick to a nearby diner, but find no leads. After Burt and Adam recall a temporary on-set rivalry between them, a crazed fan who nearly killed Burt after a one-night stand, and a ridiculous outburst from method actor Vincent Price during his time as Egghead, a Batman fan that Adam had signed the breasts of years earlier (with a permanent marker that, fittingly, never washed off) arrives to tell them the location of the Batmobile.\n\nUpon arrival to the Batmobile, the duo enter, but find it booby-trapped. Sedated and piloted remotely to the original Batcave set, Jerry reveals himself to be the thief and, in an odd turn of events, pulls off his mask to reveal himself to be Frank Gorshin, the actor who played the Riddler. Frank restrains Adam and Burt and reveals that, years earlier, he had stolen the set blueprints of the Batman series in his plan for revenge against the hero actors getting more recognition than those who played the villains. Adam realizes the woman from earlier was none other than Julie Newmar, who then reveals herself to be working as Frank's accomplice.\n\nStrapped to an armed bomb, Adam tricks Frank into ejecting himself from the batmobile and onto a ledge, before cutting his and Burt's restraints off with a prop batarang he stole years earlier. Now free, the duo escape the cave just before it detonates (although Burt does suffer some burns), before calling the police to arrest Frank Gorshin and Julie Newmar.\n\nDays later, Burt and Adam attend the re-opening of the classic car event for orphans. The lights vanish once more and the Batmobile is gone. Adam rushes off to find the perpetrators whilst accompanied by the classic Batman theme, with a more enthusiastic Burt running by his side.\n\nApart from West and Ward, a number of actors from the original series also appeared in the film. This includes Frank Gorshin, who played the Riddler, Julie Newmar, who played Catwoman for the first two seasons of the show and Lee Meriwether, who played Catwoman in the \"Batman\" theatrical film. Gorshin and Newmar appear as themselves, while Meriwether appears as a waitress.\n\nDue to licensing problems involving the original TV series, the makers of this film were only allowed to use footage from the 1966 \"Batman\" feature film. As a result, Lee Meriwether's rendition of Catwoman is the only one seen in archive footage in this film (even during a musical sequence intended to pay tribute to Newmar). Zambia-born actress Julia Rose plays the young Julie Newmar and gets to briefly don the Catwoman costume.\n\nJason Marsden, who plays the young Burt Ward/Robin, has done a few voice roles in DC/Warner Bros Cartoons such as \"Batman Beyond\", \"Justice League Unlimited\", and \"Young Justice\".\n\nLyle Waggoner, who originally auditioned for the part of Batman, and Betty White both have cameos in the movie. Some of Waggoner's actual audition tape footage can be seen in the movie. Waggoner ended up landing a role in another DC Comics' TV series: he played Steve Trevor on \"Wonder Woman\" in the 1970s alongside Lynda Carter as the title character. Adam West's daughter, Nina West, also has a cameo as a psychotic actress who tries to kill Burt Ward after a one-night stand. This incident is mentioned in Ward's autobiography, \"My Life in Tights\". During the original series, of the four main supervillains (Joker, Riddler, Penguin, and Catwoman), only Riddler never entered the Batcave set; in the movie the Riddler finally does enter the Batcave.\n\n\n\"Return to the Batcave\" was released on DVD on May 17, 2005, by Anchor Bay Entertainment.\n\n"}
{"id": "2010174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010174", "title": "Race and crime in the United States", "text": "Race and crime in the United States\n\nIn the United States, the relationship between race and crime has been a topic of public controversy and scholarly debate for more than a century. The crime rate varies between racial groups. Most homicides in the United States are intraracial—the perpetrator and victim are of the same race. Although academic research indicates that a portion of the over-representation of some racial minorities in the criminal justice system may be due to socioeconomic factors, as well as racial and ethnic discrimination by police and the judicial system, even after attempts to correct for this, certain minorities are far overrepresented as perpetrators in virtually all types of crime.\nIn the United States, crime data are collected from three major sources:\n\nThe Uniform Crime Reports represent the primary source of data used in the calculation of official statistics regarding serious crimes such as murder and homicide, which is supplemented by the information provided through the NCVS and self-report studies, the latter being the best indicator of actual crime rates for minor offenses such as illegal substance abuse and petty theft. These crime data collection programs provide most of the statistical information utilized by criminologists and sociologists in their analysis of crime and the extent of its relationship to race. Another form of data is that regarding the prison population.\n\nEstablished in 1927, the Uniform Crime Reports (UCR) program is a summary-based reporting system that collects data on crime reported to local and state law enforcement agencies across the US. The UCR system indexes crimes under two headings: Part I and Part II offenses. Part I offenses include: murder and non-negligent homicide; non-lethal violent crimes comprising robbery, forcible rape and aggravated assault; and property crimes comprising burglary, larceny/theft, motor vehicle theft and arson. Part II offenses include fraud, forgery/counterfeiting, embezzlement, simple assault, sex offenses, offenses against the family, drug and liquor offenses, weapons offenses and other non-violent offenses excluding traffic violations.\n\nThere are fundamental limitations of the UCR system, including:\n\nAs a response to these and other limitations, a new system of crime data collection was established in 1988 as an outgrowth of the UCR system. The National Incident-Based Reporting System (NIBRS) is an incident-based reporting system that will collect more comprehensive and detailed data on crime from local, state and federal law enforcement agencies. As it is still under development, NIBRS coverage is not yet nationwide.\n\nThe National Crime Victimization Survey (NCVS) program, established in 1972, is a national survey of a representative sample of households in the United States which covers the frequency of crime victimization and the characteristics and consequences of victimization. The primary purpose behind the NCVS program is to gather information on crimes that were not reported to police, though information is also collected on reported crimes. The survey collects data on rape, assault, robbery, burglary, personal and household larceny and motor vehicle theft. The NCVS also includes supplemental questions which allow information to be gathered on tangentially relevant issues such as school violence, attitudes towards law enforcement or perceptions regarding crime.\n\nThere are fundamental limitations to the NCVS program, including:\n\n\nAccording to the NCVS for 1992–2000, 43% of violent criminal acts, and 53% of serious violent crime (not verbal threats, or cuts and bruises) were reported to the police. Overall, black (49%) and Native Americans (48%) victims reported most often, higher than whites (42%) and Asians (40%). Serious violent crime and aggravated assault against blacks (58% and 61%) and Native Americans (55% and 59%) was reported more often than against whites (51% and 54%) or Asians (50% and 51%). Native Americans were unusually unlikely to report a robbery (45%), as with Asians and a simple assault (31%).\n\nDespite the differences in the amount of crime reported, comparisons of the UCR and NCVS data sets show there to be a high degree of correspondence between the two systems. This correspondence extends to the racial demography of both perpetrators and victims of violent crime reported in both systems.\n\nThe UCR classifies most Hispanics into the \"white\" category. The NCVS classifies some Hispanic criminals as \"white\" and some as \"other race\". The victim categories for the NCVS are more distinct.\n\nAccording to a report by the National Council of La Raza, research obstacles undermine the census of Latinos in prison, and \"Latinos in the criminal justice system are seriously undercounted. The true extent of the overrepresentation of Latinos in the system probably is significantly greater than researchers have been able to document. Lack of empirical data on Latinos is partially due to prisons' failures to document ethnic details at intake, or recording practices that historically have classified Latinos as white.\n\nOverall the FBI did not include a 'Latino' or 'Hispanic' category until recently and 93% of Hispanics are classified as \"white\" by law enforcement officers (irrespective of their ancestry) often inflating the amount of crimes attributed to whites.\n\nAccording to the Bureau of Justice Statistics, blacks accounted for 39.4% of the prison and jail population in 2009, while non-Hispanic whites were 34.2%, and Hispanics (of any race) 20.6%. The incarceration rate of black males was over six times as high as white males, with a rate of 4,749 per 100,000 US residents.\n\nAccording to the 2010 US Census, Hispanics constituted 16.3% of the US population. According to the BJS, the black incarceration rate in state and federal prisons declined to 3,161 per 100,000 and the white incarceration rate slightly increased to 487 per 100,000. In 2009, Native Americans and Alaskan Natives were jailed, paroled, or on probation at 932 per 100,000, 25% higher than for non-Natives (747), up 5.6% that year and 12% higher than 2007. However, crime in general declined during this time down to near 1970 levels, an 18% decrease from the previous decade.\n\nThe ratio between the imprisonment rate of blacks and non-Hispanic whites declined each year between 2006–2016. The ratio fell from 6.98 in 2006 to 5.78 in 2016. The disparity between the incarceration rate of Hispanics and non-Hispanic whites fell slightly over the same period from 3.31 in 2006 to 3.13 in 2016.\n\nState prisons house almost all the offenders convicted of a violent crime in each respective state. In contrast to federal prisons, state prisons mostly consist of violent offenders. The disparities in imprisonment by race varies greatly between different states and regions in the US. In 2014, 12 states had majority black prison populations and 1 state (New Mexico) majority Hispanic. African Americans were overrepresented relative to their population to varying degrees in every US state. The ratio in imprisonment between blacks and non-Hispanic whites was highest in New Jersey (12.2), Wisconsin (11.5) and Iowa (11.1). Racial disparities in imprisonment between blacks and non-Hispanic whites are much lower than average in most of the Southern United States with the lowest disparities being in the states of Hawaii (2.4), Mississippi (3.0) and Georgia (3.2). The only region with a large overrepresentation in imprisonment rate of Hispanics relative to non-Hispanic whites is the Northeastern United States\n\nA 2011 study which examined violent crime trends between 1980 and 2008 found that racial imbalances between arrest and incarceration levels were both small and comparably sized across the study period. The authors argued that the prior studies had been confounded by not separating Hispanics from Whites.<ref name=\"doi10.1111/j.1745-9125.2010.00222.x\"></ref> Another recent study in 2012 raises a different concern, showing that Hispanics and blacks receive considerably longer sentences for the same or lesser offenses on average than white offenders with equal or greater criminal records.\n\nA 2012 University of Michigan Law School study found that African Americans are given longer federal sentences even when factoring prior criminal records, and that African American jail sentences tend to be roughly 10% longer than white jail sentences for the same crimes. The study found that federal prosecutors of African American and Hispanic defendants are almost twice as likely to push for mandatory minimum sentences, leading to longer sentences and disparities in incarceration rates for federal offenses.\n\nAccording to the US Census Bureau as of the year 2000, there were 2,224,181 blacks enrolled in college. In that same year, there were 610,300 black inmates in prison according to the Bureau of Justice Statistics. The results are highly correlated with education. 30 percent of those without college education and nearly 60 percent of high school dropouts had prison records.\n\nThe probability of arrest given the commission of a crime is higher for whites than it is for blacks for robbery, aggravated assault, and simple assault, whereas for rape the probability of arrest is approximately equal across offender race. There is a disparity in arrest rate between criminals who are white and black (and presumably other races). On the one hand, it suggests that the over-representation of blacks in the criminal justice system is not consistent with the interpretation that black criminals are more likely to be targeted for arrest. On the other hand, the differential arrest rate may indicate disparities in allocation of police resources, with fewer resources being devoted to solving crimes in predominantly black neighborhoods. In other words, statistics on race and crime may be difficult to interpret without controlling for correlations between poverty and race, and poverty and crime.\n\nAccording to a 2001 study, Hispanics and blacks receive an average sentencing of 54.1 and 64.1 months, respectively, while whites receive an average of 32.1 months. 77,236 offenders, sentenced under the Sentencing Reform Act of 1984, were evaluated to control for extraneous variables other than race, but these findings remain relevant despite the fact that the offenders committed the same offense and received sentencing from the same district court. This finding is consistent across jurisdictions in multiple states within the U.S., and direct discrimination was found to be more prominent at the federal level. There are many theorists who attempt to explain why these disparities exist. Racial stereotypes and related factors such as socioeconomic status may influence the court's perception of the individual as well as its decision-making. For instance, judges may perceive minority defendants as unable to afford fines or probation fees. Consequently, they resort to jail term as opposed to community corrections sentence.\n\nA 2014 study revealed that judges subconsciously utilize the assumption that minorities are more likely to recidivate to issue a longer sentencing that will prevent the defendants from reengaging in criminal offenses. Additionally, theorists advocate that minorities are stereotypically identified as more violent and guilty than whites. This perception encourages judges to believe that they are preventing the onset of future crimes by imprisoning the defendants for a longer duration. This preconception that minorities are unable to economically support themselves warns the judicial system that they are more likely to resort to criminal activity in order to gain access to money or other objectives. Because these characteristics are less associated with white offenders, judges unintentionally treat the two differently. The short amount of time that judges share with defendants in court is insufficient in establishing an objective understanding. As a result, judges may unconsciously utilize the factors that they are given, such as the color of the skin, to construct an impression. Prejudgments on the basis of race influence perception of responsibility and threat to the society.\n\nSome studies have argued for smaller racial disparities in violent crime in recent times. However, a study of government data from 1980–2008 found that the reduction in Black violent crime relative to White violent crime was an artifact of those previous studies, which was due to Hispanic offenders being counted as White in the comparison. The Hispanic population has been increasing rapidly and Hispanics have violence rates higher than that of Whites but lower than that of Blacks.\n\nAccording to the US Department of Justice, African Americans accounted for 52.5% of all homicide offenders from 1980 to 2008, with Whites 45.3% and \"Other\" 2.2%. The offending rate for African Americans was almost 8 times higher than Whites, and the victim rate 6 times higher. Most homicides were intraracial, with 84% of White victims killed by Whites, and 93% of African American victims were killed by African Americans.\n\nIn 2013, African Americans accounted for 52.2% of all murder arrests, with Whites 45.3% and Asians/Native Americans 2.5%. Of the above, 21.7% were Hispanic.\n\nBlacks account for the majority of gun homicide victims/arrestees in the US while Whites account for the vast majority of non-gun homicide victims/arrestees. Of the gun murder victims in the United States between 2007–2016, 57% were black, 40.6% white (including Hispanic), 1.35% Asian, 0.98% unknown race and 0.48% Native American.\n\nNon-gun homicides represented about 30% of total murders in the time period. Blacks were still overrepresented although only by about 2.5x their share of the general population. Of the non-gun murder victims in the United States between 2007–2016, 61.5% were white (including Hispanic), 32.9% black, 2.29% Asian, 1.89% unknown race and 1.43% Native American.\n\nThe CDC keeps data on non-fatal injury emergency department visits and the race of victims. While non-Hispanic white victims account for approximately half of total non-fatal assault injuries, most of which did not involve any weapon, black and Hispanic victims account for the vast majority of non-fatal firearm injuries. There was a total of 17.3 million emergency department visits or hospitalizations for non-fatal assaults in the United States in the 10-year period between 2007–2016. For non-fatal assaults with recorded race, 6.5 million victims were white non-Hispanic, 4.3 million black, 2.3 million Hispanic and 0.4 million other (non-Hispanic) and for 3.8 million, the race was not recorded. There were a total of 603,000 emergency department visits in the US for non-fatal firearm assaults in the 10-year period between 2007–2016. For non-fatal firearm assaults with recorded race, 77,000 victims were white non-Hispanic, 261,000 were black and 94,000 were Hispanic, 8,500 were other non-Hispanic and for 162,000 the race was not recorded. Despite gun injuries only accounting for about 3.5% of serious assault injuries between 2007–2016 they accounted for nearly 70% of overall homicides.\n\nWhile African Americans are highly overrepresented in murders and gun assaults, the disparity in arrests is small for the most common form of assault not involving any weapon or serious injury (non-aggravated assault). Hispanics and non-Hispanic whites are arrested for non-aggravated assault in a similar ratio to their share of the US population. Of the 9,468 murder arrests in the US in 2017, 53.5% were black and 20.8% Hispanic. Of the 822,671 arrests for non-aggravated assault, 31.4% were black and 18.4% Hispanic.\n\nThe \"National Youth Gang Survey Analysis\" (2011) state that of gang members, 46% are Hispanic/Latino, 35% are black, 11.5% are white, and 7% are other races/ethnicities.\n\nAccording to the FBI Uniform Crime Reports, in the year 2008 black youths, who make up 16% of the youth population, accounted for 52% of juvenile violent crime arrests, including 58.5% of youth arrests for homicide and 67% for robbery. Black youths were overrepresented in all offense categories except DUI, liquor laws and drunkenness. Racial disparities in arrest have consistently been far less among older population groups.\n\nAccording to the National Crime Victimization Survey in 2002, robberies with white victims and black offenders were more than 12 times more common than vice versa.\n\nIn 1978, Michael Hindelang compared data from the National Crime Victimization Survey (then known as the National Crime Survey, or NCS) to data from the Uniform Crime Reports, both from 1974. He found that NCS data generally agreed with UCR data in regards to the percent of perpetrators of rape, robbery, and assault who were black. For instance, Hindelang's analysis found that both the NCS and UCR estimated that 62% of robbery offenders were black in the United States in 1974. A 2004 National Crime Victimization Survey report which analyzed carjacking over 10 years found that carjacking victims identified 56% of offenders as black, 21% as white, and 16% as Native American or Asian.\n\nAccording to a 2009 report by the Pew Hispanic Center, in 2007 Latinos \"accounted for 40% of all sentenced federal offenders ‒ more than triple their share (13%) of the total U.S. adult population\". This was an increase from 24% in 1991. Between 1991 and 2007, enforcement of federal immigration laws became a growing priority in response to undocumented immigration. By 2007, among Hispanic offenders sentenced in federal courts, 48% were\nimmigration offenses, 37% drug offenses, and 15% for other offenses. One reason for the large increase in immigration offenses is that they exclusively fall under federal jurisdiction.\n\nThe federal government publishes a list annually of Hate Crime Statistics, 2009.\nAlso published by the federal government is the Known Offender's Race by Bias Motivation, 2009. According to the Federal Bureau of Investigation Uniform Crime Report database, in 2010 58.6% of reported hate crime offenders were white, 18.4% of offenders were black, 8.9% were of individuals of multiple races and 1% of offenders were Native Americans (Hispanics were not separately delineated). The report also reveals that 48% of all hate crime offenders were motivated by the victim's race, while 18% were based on the victim's religion, and another 18% were based on the victim's sexual orientation. The report states that among hate crime offenses motivated by race, 70% were composed of anti-black bias, while 17.7% were of anti-white bias, and 5% were of anti-Asian or Pacific Islander bias.\n\nStudies have examined that ethnic/racially heterogeneous areas, most often neighborhoods in large cities, have higher crime rates than more homogeneous areas. Most studies find that the more ethnically/racially heterogeneous an area is, the higher its crime rates tend to be.\n\nStudies examining the relationship between percentages of different races in an area and crime rates have generally either found similar relationships as for nationwide crime rates or no significant relationships. Most often studied are correlations between black and Hispanic populations in a given area and crime. According to a study in the \"American Journal of Sociology\", a positive correlation exists between the percentage of black males in a neighborhood and perceptions of neighborhood crime rates, even after controlling other correlating factors and neighborhood characteristics. The study was conducted amongst the perceptions of residents in neighborhoods in Chicago, Seattle, and Baltimore in comparison with census data and police department crime statistics. Survey respondents consistently rated African Americans as more prone to violence than the data and statistics stated leading to the conclusion that the stereotype of blacks as more likely criminals is deeply embedded in the collective consciousness and societal norms of Americans. Such data may reveal a possible connection, but is functionally inconclusive due to a variety of other correlating factors which overlap with race and ethnicity.\n\nWhile there is a correlation between blacks and Hispanics and crime, the data imply a much stronger tie between poverty and crime than crime and any racial group, when gender is taken into consideration. The direct correlation between crime and class, when factoring for race alone, is relatively weak. When gender, and familial history are factored, class correlates more strongly with crime than race or ethnicity. Studies indicate that areas with low socioeconomic status may have the greatest correlation of crime with young and adult males, regardless of racial composition, though its effect on females is negligible. A 1996 study looking at data from Columbus, Ohio found that differences in disadvantage in city neighborhoods explained the vast majority of the difference in crime rates between blacks and whites, and two 2003 studies looking at violent offending among juveniles reached similar conclusions.\n\nIn the fourth chapter of their 2014 book \"Racial Formation in the United States\", Michael Omi and Howard Winant describe their own theory of racial formation and build on existing theories of race as an ethnicity, class, and nation. Omi and Winant see race as a way of \"making up people\" and also as a process of “othering.\" Classifying people as others also classifies the classifier. This process of classification is necessary in order to \"navigate in the world- to discern quickly who may be friend or foe, to position and situate ourselves within prevailing social hierarchies, and to provide clues that guide our social interactions with the individuals and groups we encounter.\" However, no classification is fixed or set in stone; society's needs and viewpoints are constantly changing. Race is a dynamic concept because \"(a) it is a way of organizing inequality in society, (b) the people on \"top\" of the hierarchy implied by racial categories enforce/reproduce that category \"downwards,\" (c) the people on the \"bottom\" of the hierarchy implied by racial categories also enforce/reproduce a variation of those categories \"upwards\" as a form of resistance, and so (d) the state of the racial categories at any particular time is a temporary consequence of conflicting \"elite\" and \"street\" variations of it\" (citation). Omi and Winant describe \"race as a master category,\" and state that race, in scholarly articles, is often referred to as a social construction. If race is a social construction, then how is it constructed? Their article argues that race is a concept \"that has profoundly shaped, and continues to shape, the history, polity, economic structure, and culture of the United States.\" They also stress the importance of viewing race from an intersectionality approach, saying that social stratification cannot be fully understood without looking at other factors such as class, gender, and sexuality. In many studies and scientific articles, the intersectionality approach is used extensively, providing insightful and pressing evidence that discrimination against minorities in the housing, healthcare, educational, and occupation market is still very relevant today.\n\nResearch suggests that police practices, such as racial profiling, over-policing in areas populated by minorities and in-group bias may result in disproportionately high numbers of racial minorities among crime suspects.\n\nA 2018 study in the \"American Journal of Public Health\" found that black and Hispanic men were far more likely to be killed by police than white men. However, when the crime rates in black, Hispanic, and white communities are considered, no bias was found.\n\nA 2016 study focused on police violence quantified the number years of life lost due to police violence by race in the US from 2015 to 2016. This study found disproportionate years of lives lost for minorities. Minorities were 38.5% of the population, but compromised 51.5% of the years of life lost.\n\nA 2002 psychology report found that ethnicity has effects on an individual's decision to shoot or not to shoot. Studies consisting of 40-50 undergraduate students from the University of Colorado at Boulder consistently found that Blacks were far more likely to be shot by than whites in ambiguous situations.\n\nA 2016 study tested whether the racial aspect of force by law enforcement were consistent with the “implicit-bias theory\". In an examiniation of Texan court records, the study found that the \"implicit-bias theory\" was consistent for one of 3 examined levels, suggesting an implicit bias towards using tasers against Blacks. This study did not show similar results when examining the use of empty-handed force or pepperspray. Alternatively, a 2016 paper by Roland G. Fryer, Jr, found no racial bias in the use of extreme force, such as shooting with a taser or a lethal weapon when comparing similar situations, but found that black and Hispanic suspects were significantly more likely to experience less extreme, non-lethal shows of force. A report by the Department of Justice concluded that police officers in Baltimore, Maryland systemically stop, search (in some cases strip-search) and harass black residents, while another DOJ report on Ferguson, Missouri found African Americans are severely disproportionately affected at \"nearly every aspect of Ferguson’s law enforcement system\". A January 2017 report by the DOJ found that the Chicago Police Department had \"unconstitutionally engaged in a pattern of excessive force\" and an independent task force created by the mayor said that police \"have no regard for the sanctity of life when it comes to people of color\".\n\nA 2009 study found that black youth were most frequently discriminated against by law enforcement in white neighborhoods, especially in neighborhoods that have recent growth in black population.\n\nIn-group bias has also been observed when it comes to traffic citations. A 2018 report found that white cops are more likely to cite a black person than a white person in a similar situation. This study also found that black cops are more likely to cite a white person than a black person in a similar situation.\n\nResearch also shows that there is discrimination by the judicial system, which contributes to a higher number of convictions and harsher sentencing for racial minorities.\n\nA 2012 study found that \"(i) juries formed from all-white jury pools convict black defendants significantly (16 percentage points) more often than white defendants, and (ii) this gap in conviction rates is entirely eliminated when the jury pool includes at least one black member.\" Research has found evidence of in-group bias, where \"black (white) juveniles who are randomly assigned to black (white) judges are more likely to get incarcerated (as opposed to being placed on probation), and they receive longer sentences.\"\n\nA 2018 paper by Alma Cohen and Crystal Yang of Harvard Law School found that \"that Republican-appointed judges give substantially longer prison sentences to black offenders versus observably similar non-black offenders compared to Democratic-appointed judges within the same district court.\" A 2018 study in the \"Quarterly Journal of Economics\" found that bail judges in Miami and Philadelphia were racially biased against black defendants, as white defendants had higher rates of pretrial misconduct than black defendants.\n\nA 2011 study states that policies, such as mandatory policies and sentencing enhancements, produce racially disparate outcomes and may contribute to continued racial inequality in the prison system. Mandatory terms and sentencing enhancements disproportionately increase Black men's prison admission rates.\n\nA 2007 paper by Jennifer Hochschild concluded that in criminal sentencing, medium to dark-skinned African Americans are likely to receive sentences 2.6 years longer than those of whites or light-skinned African Americans. When a white victim is involved, the report found that those with more \"black\" features are likely to receive a much more severe punishment.\n\nA 2013 report by the American Civil Liberties Union found that blacks were \"3.73 times more likely than whites to be arrested for marijuana possession\", even though \"blacks and whites use drugs, including marijuana, at similar rates.\"\n\nA 2016 analysis by the \"New York Times\" \"of tens of thousands of disciplinary cases against inmates in 2015, hundreds of pages of internal reports and three years of parole decisions found that racial disparities were embedded in the prison experience in New York.\" Blacks and Latinos were sent more frequently to solitary and held there for longer durations than whites. The New York Times analysis found that the disparities were the greatest for violations where the prison guards had lots of discretion, such as disobeying orders, but smaller for violations that required physical evidence, such as possessing contraband.\n\nA 2016 report by the \"Sarasota Herald-Tribune\" found that Florida judges sentence black defendants to far longer prison sentences than whites with the same background. For the same drug possession crimes, blacks were sentenced to double the time of whites. Blacks were given longer sentences in 60 percent of felony cases, 68 percent of the most serious first-degree crimes, 45 percent of burglary cases and 30 percent of battery cases. For third-degree felonies (the least serious types of felonies in Florida), white judges sentenced blacks to twenty percent more time than whites, whereas black judges gave more balanced sentences. One judge responded by noting that about ninety-eight percent of sentences are the result of plea bargaining and that sentencing is a complicated issue given the various facts involved, thus no two cases can be compared. Some attorneys note that poorer defendants often rely on public defenders who often receive less favorable plea offers than defendants with private counsel because private attorneys have lighter case loads, are less likely to go to trial with prosecutors, and defendants with means are more likely to present mitigating factors.\n\nAnother theory proposes that racial inequality in the American criminal justice system is mostly caused by a racial imbalance in decisions to charge criminal defendants with crimes requiring a mandatory minimum prison sentence, leading to large racial disparities in incarceration.\n\nA 2011 paper concluded that black defendants are disproportionately subjected to the death penalty when the victim is white. A 2014 study tested the effects of implicit bias on the death penalty. The study found that a juror's implicit bias creates racial disparities in the sentencing of death penalties.\n\nA 2018 study in the \"\" found that high stakes decisions, such as sentence lengths, made by judges can be greatly impacted by emotions and these type of decisions can thus be unstable. This was supported by an experiment where the effects of emotional shocks associated with unexpected wins/loses of college football games were analyzed alongside sentencing decisions by judges of black defendants.\n\nResearch shows that childhood exposure to violence significantly increases the likelihood to engage in violent behavior. When studies control for childhood exposure to violence, black and white males are equally likely to engage in violent behavior. White and black families have no major difference in child abuse except in the $6,000-$11,999 income range (which falls under the Poverty Threshold in the United States). A study in Australia showed a direct correlation to poverty in later life from childhood abuse. While poverty in the United States and Australia are not the same, a general understanding of the negative effects of childhood abuse later in life has been found, many of these effects being contributing factors to poverty.\n\nA paper written by Anna Aizer, analyzes the disadvantages children face when they are exposed to frequent neighborhood violence. In a survey of 2248 6th, 8th, and 10th graders in an urban public school system, “Schwab-Stone et al (1995) found that 40% of youth reported exposure to a shooting or a stabbing in the past year. Children exposed to high levels of violence were more likely to be black and/or Latino…”. Using ANOVA to observe differences in child outcomes, they found that exposure to violence is associated with willingness to use physical aggression, diminished perception of risk, lowered expectations of the future, substance use, and low academic achievement. The Los Angeles Family and Neighborhood Study (LA FANS) studied a representative sample of all neighborhoods in LA and evaluated the conditions and circumstances in which each family was living under. Families were randomly selected within each neighborhood and interviews were conducted with adults, caregivers, and children. 21% of children reported having violent peers that were a part of gangs, 11% reported being robbed, 8% reported witnessing a shooting within the past year.\n\nAccording to a 2017 study in the \"Journal of Law and Economics\", \"Higher pretrial detention rates among minority defendants explain 40 percent of the black-white gap in rates of being sentenced to prison and 28 percent of the Hispanic-white gap.\" The majority of individuals held in pretrial detention are being held because they cannot afford to post bail. The individuals in pretrial detention face higher incentives to plead guilty (even if they are innocent) for a number of reasons, which leads to a higher sentencing rates for these individuals.\n\nEvidence supporting the role of structural factors in high black crime rates comes from multiple studies. For example, Robert J. Sampson has reported that most of the reason violent crime rates are so high among blacks originates mainly from unemployment, economic deprivation, and family disorganization. Specifically, he found that \"the scarcity of employed black men increases the prevalence of families headed by females in black communities\" and that the increased prevalence of such families in turn results in family disruption that significantly increases black murder and robbery rates. Sampson, et al. and Phillips have reported that at least half of the black-white homicide offending differential is attributable to structural neighborhood factors like parents' marital status and social context. Multiple other studies have found a link between black crime rates and structural factors, such as single-parent families and structural inequality.\n\nAdditionally, \"Hagan and Peterson (1995) further propose that the segregation of racial minorities in sections of concentrated poverty contributes to inferior educational and employment opportunities, which, in turn, enhance the likelihood of crime and delinquency.\"\n\nHistorically, crime statistics have played a central role in the discussion of the relationship between race and crime in the United States. As they have been designed to record information not only on the kinds of crimes committed, but also on the individuals involved in crime, criminologists and sociologists have and continue to use crime rate statistics to make general statements regarding the racial demographics of crime-related phenomena such as victimization, arrests, prosecutions, convictions, and incarceration. Regardless of their views regarding causation, scholars acknowledge that some racial and ethnic minorities are disproportionately represented in the arrest and victimization reports which are used to compile crime rate statistics. There is, however, a great deal of debate regarding the causes of that disproportionality.\n\nAs noted above, scholars acknowledge that some racial and ethnic minorities, particularly African Americans, are disproportionately represented in the arrest and victimization reports which are used to compile crime rate statistics in the United States. The data from 2008 reveals that black Americans are over-represented in terms of arrests made in virtually all types of crime, with the exceptions of \"driving under the influence\", \"liquor laws\" and hate crime. Overall, black Americans are arrested at 2.6 times the per-capita rate of all other Americans, and this ratio is even higher for murder (6.3 times) and robbery (8.1 times).\n\nThe relationship between race and crime has been an area of study for criminologists since the emergence of anthropological criminology in the late 19th century. Cesare Lombroso, founder of the Italian school of criminology, argued that criminal behavior was the product of biological factors, including race. He was among the first criminologists to claim a direct link between race and crime. This biological perspective, sometimes seen as racist and increasingly unpopular, was criticized by early 20th century scholars, including Frances Kellor, Johan Thorsten Sellin and William Du Bois, who argued that other circumstances, such as social and economic conditions, were the central factors which led to criminal behavior, regardless of race. Du Bois traced the causes of the disproportional representation of Blacks in the criminal justice system back to the improperly handled emancipation of Black slaves in general and the convict leasing program in particular. In 1901, he wrote:\n\nThere are no reliable statistics to which one can safely appeal to measure exactly the growth of crime among the emancipated slaves. About seventy per cent of all prisoners in the South are black; this, however, is in part explained by the fact that accused Negroes are still easily convicted and get long sentences, while whites still continue to escape the penalty of many crimes even among themselves. And yet allowing for all this, there can be no reasonable doubt but that there has arisen in the South since the [civil] war a class of black criminals, loafers, and ne'er-do-wells who are a menace to their fellows, both black and white.\n\nThe debate that ensued remained largely academic until the late 20th century, when the relationship between race and crime became a recognized field of specialized study in criminology. Helen T. Greene, professor of justice administration at Texas Southern University, and Shaun L. Gabbidon, professor of criminal justice at Pennsylvania State University, note that many criminology and criminal justice programs now either require or offer elective courses on the topic of the relationship between race and crime.\n\nSociologist Orlando Patterson has explained these controversies as disputes between liberal and conservative criminologists in which each camp focuses on mutually exclusive aspects of the causal net, with liberals focusing on factors external to the groups in question and conservatives focusing on internal cultural and behavioral factors.\n\nConflict theory is considered \"one of the most popular theoretical frameworks among race and crime scholars\". Rather than one monolithic theory, conflict theory represents a group of closely related theories which operate on a common set of fundamental assumptions. As a general theory of criminal behavior, conflict theory proposes that crime is an inevitable consequence of the conflict which arises between competing groups within society. Such groups can be defined through a number of factors, including class, economic status, religion, language, ethnicity, race or any combination thereof. Further, conflict theory proposes that crime could be largely eliminated if the structure of society were to be changed.\n\nThe form of conflict theory which emphasizes the role of economics, being heavily influenced by the work of Karl Marx and sometimes referred to as Marxist criminology, views crime as a natural response to the inequality arising from the competition inherent in capitalist society. Sociologists and criminologists emphasizing this aspect of social conflict argue that, in a competitive society in which there is an inequality in the distribution of goods, those groups with limited or restricted access to goods will be more likely to turn to crime. Dutch criminologist Willem Adriaan Bonger, one of the first scholars to apply the principles of economic determinism to the issue of crime, argued that such inequality as found in capitalism was ultimately responsible for the manifestation of crime at all levels of society, particularly among the poor. Though this line of thinking has been criticized for requiring the establishment of a utopian socialist society, the notion that the disproportionality observed in minority representation in crime rate statistics could be understood as the result of systematic economic disadvantage found its way into many of the theories developed in subsequent generations.\n\nCulture conflict theory, derived from the pioneering work of sociologist Thorsten Sellin, emphasizes the role of culturally accepted norms of conduct in the formation of cultural groups and the conflicts which arise through their interaction. Culture conflict theory argues that the group with the most power in any society ensures that their values, traditions and behaviors, which Sellin referred to as \"conduct norms\", are those to which all other members of society are forced to conform, and any actions which conflict with the interests of the dominant group are identified as deviant and/or criminal in nature. Sellin's original ideas continued to be developed throughout the 20th century, most notably by George Vold in the 1950s and Austin Turk in the 1960s, and continue to influence the contemporary debate. The recent work of Gregory J. Howard, Joshua D. Freilich and Graeme R. Newman applies culture conflict theory to the issue of immigrant and minority crime around the world. According to their research, while culturally homogeneous groups experience little to no cultural conflict, as all the members share the same set of \"conduct norms\", culturally heterogeneous groups, such as modern industrial nations with large immigrant populations, display heightened competition between sets of cultural norms which, in turn, leads to an increase in violence and crime. Societies which have high levels of cultural diversity in their population, it is claimed, are more likely to have higher rates of violent crime.\n\nAccording to conflict theorists such as Marvin Wolfgang, Hubert Blalock and William Chambliss, the disproportionate representation of racial minorities in crime statistics and in the prison population is the result of race- and class-motivated disparities in arrests, prosecutions and sentencing rather than differences in actual participation in criminal activity, an approach which has also been taken by proponents of critical race theory. This line of argumentation is generally seen as part of a wider approach to race-related issues referred to as the Discrimination Thesis, which assumes that differences in the treatment received by people of minority racial background in a number of public institutions, including the criminal justice, education and health care systems, is the result of overt racial discrimination. Opposed to this view is the Non-Discrimination Thesis, which seeks to defend these institutions from such accusations.\n\nAt the time it was first proposed, conflict theory was considered outside the mainstream of more established criminological theories, such as strain theory, social disorganization theory and differential association theory. Barbara D. Warner, associate professor of criminal justice and police studies at Eastern Kentucky University, notes that conflict theory has been the subject of increasing criticism in recent years. Recent studies claim that, while there may have been real sentencing differences related to non-legal characteristics such as race in the 1960s, sentencing discrimination as described by the conflict theorists at that time no longer exists. Criticism has also pointed to the lack of testability of the general theory. While much research has been done to correlate race, income level and crime \"frequency\", typically of less serious criminal behavior such as theft or larceny, research has shown there to be no significant correlation between race, income level and crime \"seriousness\". Thus, conflict theory encounters difficulties in attempting to account for the high levels of violent crime such as murder, homicide and rape, in minority populations.\n\nStrain theory, which is largely derived from the work of Robert K. Merton in the 1930s and 1940s, argues that social structures within society which lead to inequality and deprivation in segments of its population indirectly encourage those segments to commit crime. According to strain theory, differences in crime rates between races are the result of real differences in behavior, but to be understood as an attempt to alleviate either absolute or relative deprivation and adapt to the existing opportunity structure.\n\nA more recent approach to strain theory was proposed by Steven F. Messner and Richard Rosenfeld in the 1990s. In their version of the theory, which they refer to as institutional anomie theory, Messner and Rosenfeld argue that the dominance of materialistic concerns and measurements of success manifested in the American Dream weakens the effectiveness of informal social control mechanisms and support processes, which encourages economic gain by any means, legal or illegal. In those segments of the population which experience the greatest relative deprivation, therefore, there is readiness to turn to crime to overcome inequality and eliminate relative deprivation.\n\nCritics of strain theory point to its weaknesses when compared with actual criminal behavior patterns. Michael R. Gottfredson and Travis Hirschi argue that strain theory \"misconstrue(s) the nature of the criminal act, supplying it with virtues it does not possess.\" They further point out that, while strain theory suggests that criminals should tend to target people in a more advantageous economic situation than themselves, they more often victimize individuals who live in the same economic circumstances.\n\nMultiple studies have found evidence that Agnew's general strain theory explains much of the difference in crime between blacks and whites.\n\nA 1996 study found a strong association between black-white spatial isolation and rates of black violence, consistent with the hypothesis that segregation is responsible for higher rates of black crime. Multiple other studies have reached similar conclusions. However, correlation does not equal causation, and the disproportionately higher crime rates seen in black communities—as well as the reason for their segregation—can be attributed to a number of underlying symptoms.\n\nSocial disorganization theory proposes that high rates of crime are largely the result of a heterogeneous and impoverished social ecology. Proponents of the theory point to the process of urban decay as a major contributing factor to the breakdown of healthy urban communities which would normally curb the spread of many forms of criminal behavior. The diversity of minority cultures present in poverty-stricken neighborhoods prevents the formation of strong social bonds and leaves inhabitants uninterested in maintaining positive community relationships. This has been observed to increase the likelihood of crime in certain urban areas, which can lead to increased policing and a further breakdown of familial structures as a result of arrests, which, in turn, precipitates more crime. Social disorganization theory has been instrumental in establishing the notion that stable, culturally homogeneous communities have lower rates of delinquency and crime regardless of race.\n\nPhillippia Simmons reports that many of the studies which have investigated intra- and interracial crime seek to explain this through a theory of macrostructural opportunity which states that interracial violence is primarily a function of opportunity and access. According to this theory, intraracial crime rates remain relatively high due to the fact that much of the US remains residentially segregated. She notes that this theory predicts that, if residential areas were more racially integrated, intraracial crime would decrease and interracial crime would increase correspondingly. However, she also notes that not all researchers on the topic of intraracial crime agree with this result, with some pointing to other macrostructural factors, such as income and education, which may negate the effect of race on inter- and intraracial crime.\n\nAnthony Walsh criticizes the attempt to use the macrostructural opportunity model to explain interracial rape as has been done in studies conducted in the past few decades, pointing out that such a defense is directly contradicted by the data related to homicide. Walsh argues that the macrostructural opportunity model helps explain why black murderers almost always choose black victims. There are disparities in rates of reporting rape where victims of some races are statistically less likely or more likely to report their rape, especially depending on the race of the offender. Black women in America are more likely to report sexual assault that has been perpetrated by a stranger. Black women are more likely to under-report rapes overall as they are more likely to blame themselves, feel they will be blamed or feel they won't be believed.\n\nSocial control theory, which is among the most popular theories in criminology, proposes that crime is most commonly perpetrated by individuals who lack strong bonds or connections with their social environment. Based upon Travis Hirschi's \"Causes of Delinquency\" (1969), social bonding theory pioneered the notion that criminologists can gain useful insight into the motives behind criminal behavior by examining what normally motivates individuals to refrain from crime. From this it is argued that, in those segments of the population where such motivation is lacking, crime will be more prevalent. Hirschi was explicit in mentioning that he believed his theory held true across all racial boundaries, and subsequent research—both in the US and abroad—seems to confirm this belief. The core idea of social control theory is elaborated upon in several other theories of causation, particularly social disorganization theory.\n\nAs a theory of criminal behavior, subculture of violence theory claims that certain groups or subcultures exist in society in which violence is viewed as an appropriate response to what, in the context of that subculture, are perceived as threatening situations. Building upon the work of cultural anthropologist Walter B. Miller's focal concerns theory, which focused on the social mechanisms behind delinquency in adolescents, sociologists Marvin Wolfgang and Franco Ferracuti proposed that the disproportionally high rate of crime among African Americans could be explained by their possessing a unique racial subculture in which violence is experienced and perceived in a manner different from that commonly observed in mainstream American culture.\n\nAs to the origins of this subculture of violence among African Americans, sociologists promoting the theory have pointed towards their Southern heritage. As noted in several studies conducted throughout the 1960s and 1970s, there is a traditional north–south discrepancy in the distribution of homicide in the US, regardless of race, and this, it was argued, indicates that lower-class Southern Blacks and Whites share the same subculture of violence.\n\nThe empirical basis for the subculture of violence theory, however, has been described as \"extremely limited and unpersuasive\". Very little has been done to attempt an adequate assessment of supposedly criminogenic subcultural values, and several studies conducted in the late 1970s claimed to falsify the assumptions upon which the subculture of violence theory depends. More recently, scholars have criticized the theory as potentially racist in nature in its implication of one given ethnicity or culture supposedly being less fit for or less worthy of being qualified as \"civilized\", the built-in implication of which in turn would denote stereotypically \"white\" behavior as an objective norm for all societies to follow. The hypothesis was reconsidered recently by Barry Latzer, who suggested that black Americans had inherited a subculture of violence from white Southern American honor culture (who themselves had developed that culture from the brutal and lawless border region of northern Britain) and that difference in crime rates could be partially explained by this contemporary manifestation of Southern honor culture. Latzer's argument was criticized by German Lopez for not adequately demonstrating the alleged causality between culture and crime, not accounting for the decrease in crime rates in the 20th century or clearly defining the limits of what would constitute \"culture\" for the purposes of Latzer's argument.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2010179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010179", "title": "Victoria Wells Wulsin", "text": "Victoria Wells Wulsin\n\nVictoria Elizabeth Wells Wulsin (born October 27, 1953) is an American physician who specializes in epidemiology, especially AIDS research among women in Africa.\n\nShe has become involved in politics, and in 2006 and 2008 ran as the Democratic candidate in the Second District of Ohio (map). She lost to the Republican incumbent. She is a resident of Indian Hill, an affluent suburb of Cincinnati.\n\nWulsin was born in Elyria, Ohio, the daughter of a teacher and a social worker. She attended high school in Ohio, and earned a B.A. at Harvard University. After college, she returned to Ohio and earned a medical degree from Case Western Reserve University in Cleveland (1980). She earned a masters in Public Health (1982) and a doctorate in Epidemiology (1985), both from the Harvard University School of Public Health. Wulsin has obtained medical licenses in Massachusetts (1981) and Ohio (1989).\n\nShe married Dr. Lawson Reed Wulsin, now a psychiatrist on the faculty of the University of Cincinnati. They have four sons: Wells, Reed, Stuart and John.\n\nFrom 1989-1995, Wulsin was Director of Epidemiology in the City of Cincinnati's Health Department. From 1986-2001, she worked in various capacities for the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.\n\nIn April 2003, Wulsin founded SOTENI International, a non-profit organization to fight AIDS in Africa. It has its headquarters in Cincinnati and an office in Kenya. SOTENI assists those women and orphans who have been most affected by the AIDS pandemic. Soteni is a Swahili word which translates as \"all of us\". On 26 January 2011 during the award of a charter to the Mount Kenya University in Thika, Wulsin was installed as its first Chancellor.\n\nHer interest in public health and larger social issues led her into politics, and she has run for office as a representative of her district to Congress three times, but has not been elected.\n\nWulsin was a candidate for the Democratic nomination for Congress to replace Rob Portman in the Second District of Ohio in the special primary held June 14, 2005. In the Democratic primary, Wulsin finished second behind Paul Hackett. She received 3,800 votes (27.35%).\n\nShe had campaigned to reform health care to provide every citizen with coverage, promised to protect Social Security and the environment, said the Iraq War \"has not been worth the cost of American service personnel or the dollars we have spent\", and said America needed \"fair trade\" in the proposed CAFTA agreement. She also defended contraception, legal abortion and reproductive rights.\n\nIn 2006, Wulsin sought the Democratic nomination again. With Paul Hackett having announced he would not run again, she faced health care administrator James John Parker and civil engineer Jeff Sinnard, who both ran in 2005, and newcomers Gabrielle Downey, a high school teacher, and Thor Jacobs, a building contractor. Wulsin won the May 2 primary by nearly 15 percentage points and received the Democratic nomination for the 2nd District.\n\nFacing the incumbent Rep. Jean Schmidt (R) in the November 2006 general election, she was defeated by a narrow margin: 2,517 votes out of almost 240,000 votes cast. This is the closest in 42 years that a Democrat has come to winning a full term in the historically Republican 2nd District. The last Democrat to win this district for a full term was future Governor Jack Gilligan, who held it for one term after being swept into office by the Democratic landslide of 1964.\n\nWulsin carried Pike and Scioto counties by wide margins and narrowly carried Brown County. She defeated Schmidt in the 2nd's share of Hamilton County, by far the largest portion of the district. Schmidt had won Hamilton County during her special election victory against Hackett. Schmidt carried her home Clermont County by over 8,000 votes, enabling her to keep the seat.\n\nIn the 2008 election cycle, Wulsin ran as the Democratic candidate for the Second District of Ohio after winning the primary. She defeated Cincinnati attorney Steve Black by 28 points in the March 4 primary.\n\nIn the general election, Wulsin faced two opponents, Republican incumbent Jean Schmidt and independent candidate David Krikorian. Polls showed the race to be close between Wulsin and Schmidt, with Krikorian attracting a significant amount of support for an independent candidate.\n\nThe three candidates engaged in three debates. The first took place at the Anderson Community Center on October 6, 2008, the second was aired on WCET on October 22, and the third was aired on Channel 12’s \"Newsmakers\" program on October 26. All three debates focused mainly on the economy, the financial crisis, and local issues.\n\nOn November 4, the incumbent Representative Schmidt defeated Wulsin in the general election.\n\nDuring the 2006 and 2008 electoral campaigns, Wulsin's participation in a 2004 study for Cincinnati's Heimlich Institute was criticized by her opponents. Henry Heimlich had directed a three-year study in China, ending in 1996, that evaluated the use of malaria infection in fighting AIDS. In 2008 ABC News, in discussing Wulsin, noted that this theory had been debunked.\n\nIn 2004 Wulsin was hired as an epidemiologist by the Heimlich Institute to conduct a four-month literature review on \"malariotherapy\", the AIDS treatment based on infecting HIV+ patients with malaria. Wulsin wrote a draft report for the Heimlich Institute summarizing her findings, entitled \"Immunotherapy and Beyond\". It has not been published. She concluded that \"the preponderance of evidence indicates that neither malaria or immunotherapy will cure HIV/AIDS.\" and recommended that the Institute wait for results of other studies. The day after Wulsin submitted the report, Heimlich fired her. Wulsin said: \"I challenged the science and ethics of immunotherapy, malaria therapy. I didn't realize how much it was a challenge to his ethics and his science until he fired me.\"\n\nThe following year, Dr. Robert S. Baratz of the National Council Against Health Fraud filed a complaint with the State Medical Board of Ohio of Wulsin's work for the Heimlich Institute. After its review, the State Medical Board issued a letter on April 28, 2008, saying that \"no further action was required by the board and the complaint has been closed.\"\n\nThat year the Republican candidate, Jean Schmidt, in a tight race with Wulsin, tried to capitalize on the controversy in a fundraising letter that incorrectly suggested that the doctor had been directly involved in experiments using malariotherapy. This was a distortion of her literature review study.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2010183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010183", "title": "Fowell Buxton", "text": "Fowell Buxton\n\nSir Thomas Fowell Buxton, 1st Baronet (1 April 1786 – 19 February 1845) was an English Member of Parliament, brewer, abolitionist and social reformer. He had connections with the Gurney family.\n\nBuxton was born at Castle Hedingham, Essex. His father, also named Thomas Fowell Buxton, died young, leaving three sons and two daughters. His mother's maiden name was Anna Hanbury, a Quaker. Through her influence Buxton became associated with the Gurney family of Earlham Hall, Norwich. He was especially close to Joseph John Gurney, his sister the prison reformer Elizabeth Fry, and their sister Hannah, whom he married in May 1807. He lived at Northrepps Hall in Norfolk. He completed his education at Trinity College Dublin.\n\nIn 1808, Buxton's Hanbury family connections led to an appointment to work at the brewery of Truman, Hanbury & Company, in Brick Lane, Spitalfields, London. In 1811 he was made a partner in the business, renamed Truman, Hanbury, Buxton & Co. He later became sole owner.\n\nAlthough he was a member of the Church of England, Buxton attended meetings of the Friends (Quakers) with some of the Gurneys. In this way he became involved in the social reform movement, in which Friends were prominent. He helped raise money for the weavers of London, who were being forced into poverty by the factory system. He provided financial support for Elizabeth Fry's prison reform work and joined her Association for the Improvement of the Female Prisoners in Newgate.\n\nBuxton was elected to Parliament for Weymouth and Melcombe Regis in 1818. As an MP he worked for changes in prison conditions and criminal law and for the abolition of slavery, in which he was helped by his sister-in-law Louisa Gurney Hoare. He also opposed capital punishment and pushed for its abolition. Although he never accomplished this last goal, he worked to restrict the crimes for which capital punishment was sentenced. The number was eventually reduced from over 200 to eight.\n\nAmong other things, he argued for the suppression of lotteries and abolition of the practice of burning widows in India.\n\nThomas and Hannah Buxton had eight children. Four of them died of whooping cough over a five-week period around April 1820. Another one died of consumption some time later. Hannah would send boxes of toys to the missionary Anna Hinderer in Nigeria in 1855. By 1866 her grandchildren were parcelling them up.\n\nThe slave trade had been abolished in 1807, but Buxton began to work for the abolition of the institution of slavery. In 1823 he helped found the British and Foreign Anti-Slavery Society (later known as the Anti-Slavery Society). In the House of Commons in May 1823, Buxton introduced a resolution condemning the state of slavery as \"repugnant to the principles of the British constitution and of the Christian religion\", and called for its gradual abolition \"throughout the British colonies\". He also pressured the government to send dispatches to the colonies to improve the treatment of slaves. Buxton took over as leader of the abolition movement in the British House of Commons after William Wilberforce retired in 1825.\n\nHe presented a petition to the House of Commons bearing 187,000 signatures. This had been partly organised by Priscilla Buxton in 1833, and the first two signatures were Amelia Opie's and hers. He had achieved his goal when slavery was officially abolished in the British Empire, except in India and Ceylon. Buxton held his seat in Parliament until 1837.\n\nIn 1839 Buxton urged the British government to make treaties with African leaders to abolish the slave trade. The government in turn backed the Niger expedition of 1841 (not including Buxton) put together by missionary organizations, which was also going to work on trade. More than 150 people were part of the expedition, which reached the Niger Delta and began negotiations. The British suffered such high mortality from fevers, with more than 25 per cent of the group dying rapidly, that they cut short the mission in 1841.\nDavid Livingstone was strongly influenced by Buxton's arguments that the African slave trade might be destroyed through the influence of \"legitimate trade\" (in goods) and the spread of Christianity. He became a missionary in Africa and fought the slave trade all his life.\n\nOn 30 July 1840 Buxton was created a baronet. His health failed gradually – according to some, due to disappointment over the failed mission to Africa. He died five years later at his home, North-Repps Hall, near Aylsham, and was buried at Overstrand.\n\nOn 16 June 1824 a meeting was held at Old Slaughter's Coffee House, St Martin's Lane, London, that created the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals. (It became the RSPCA when Queen Victoria gave royal assent in 1840.) The 22 founding members included William Wilberforce, Richard Martin, Sir James Mackintosh, Basil Montagu and Reverend Arthur Broome. Buxton was appointed chairman for the year 1824.\n\n\nBuxton had a number of notable descendants (five sons and six daughters):\n\nSir Edward North Buxton, 2nd Baronet (1812–1858) married Catherine Gurney (seven sons, five daughters).\n\nThomas Fowell Buxton (1822–1908) married Rachel Gurney (six sons, five daughters).\n\nCharles Buxton, MP (1823–1871) married Emily Mary Holland (two sons, four daughters)\n\nPriscilla Buxton (died 1852) married Andrew Johnston, MP (c. 1798–1862) (2 sons, 4 daughters)\nThomas Mark Buxton (born 1874)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2010194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010194", "title": "Carrion's disease", "text": "Carrion's disease\n\nCarrion's disease is an infectious disease produced by \"Bartonella bacilliformis\" infection.\n\nIt is named after Daniel Alcides Carrión.\n\nThe clinical symptoms of bartonellosis are pleomorphic and some patients from endemic areas may be asymptomatic. The two classical clinical presentations are the acute phase and the chronic phase, corresponding to the two different host cell types invaded by the bacterium (red blood cells and endothelial cells). An individual can be affected by either or both phases.\n\nIt is also called the hematic phase. The most common findings are fever (usually sustained, but with temperature no greater than 102 °F (39 °C)), pale appearance, malaise, painless liver enlargement, jaundice, enlarged lymph nodes, and enlarged spleen. This phase is characterized by severe hemolytic anemia and transient immunosuppression. The case fatality ratios of untreated patients exceeded 40% but reach around 90% when opportunistic infection with \"Salmonella\" spp. occurs. In a recent study, the attack rate was 13.8% (123 cases) and the case-fatality rate was 0.7%.\n\nOther symptoms include a headache, muscle aches, and general abdominal pain. Some studies have suggested a link between Carrion's disease and heart murmurs due to the disease's impact on the circulatory system. In children, symptoms of anorexia, nausea, and vomiting have been investigated as possible symptoms of the disease.\n\nMost of the mortality of Carrion's disease occurs during the acute phase. Studies vary in their estimates of mortality. In one study, mortality has been estimated as low as just 1% in studies of hospitalized patients, to as high as 88% in untreated, unhospitalized patients. In developed countries, where the disease rarely occurs, it is recommended to seek the advice of a specialist in infectious disease when diagnosed. Mortality is often thought to be due to subsequent infections due to the weakened immune symptoms and opportunistic pathogen invasion, or consequences of malnutrition due to weight loss in children. In a study focusing on pediatric and gestational effects of the disease, mortality rates for pregnant women with the acute phase were estimated at 40% and rates of spontaneous abortion in another 40%.\n\nIt is also called the eruptive phase or tissue phase, in which the patients develop a cutaneous rash produced by a proliferation of endothelial cells and is known as \"Peruvian warts\" or \"\"verruga peruana\"\". Depending on the size and characteristics of the lesions, there are three types: miliary (1–4 mm), nodular or subdermic, and mular (>5mm). Miliary lesions are the most common. The lesions often ulcerate and bleed.\n\nThe most common findings are bleeding of verrugas, fever, malaise, arthralgias (joint pain), anorexia, myalgias, pallor, lymphadenopathy, and liver and spleen enlargement.\n\nOn microscopic examination, the chronic phase and its rash are produced by angioblastic hyperplasia, or the increased rates and volume of cell growth in the tissues that form blood vessels. This results in a loss of contact between cells and a loss of normal functioning.\n\nThe chronic phase is the more common phase. Mortality during the chronic phase is very low.\n\nCarrion's disease is caused by \"Bartonella bacilliformis\".\nRecent investigations show that \"Candidatus Bartonella ancashi\" may cause verruga peruana, although it may not meet all of Koch's postulates. There has been no experimental reproduction of the Peruvian wart in animals and there is little research on the disease's natural spread or impact in native animals.\n\nDiagnosis during the acute phase can be made by obtaining a peripheral blood smear with Giemsa stain, Columbia blood agar cultures, immunoblot, indirect immunofluorescence, and PCR. Diagnosis during the chronic phase can be made using a Warthin-Starry stain of wart biopsy, PCR, and immunoblot.\n\nBecause Carrion's disease is often comorbid with \"Salmonella\" infections, chloramphenicol has historically been the treatment of choice.\n\nFluoroquinolones (such as ciprofloxacin) or chloramphenicol in adults and chloramphenicol plus beta-lactams in children are the antibiotic regimens of choice during the acute phase of Carrion's disease. Chloramphenicol-resistant \"B. bacilliformis\" has been observed.\n\nDuring the eruptive phase, in which chloramphenicol is not useful, azithromycin, erythromycin, and ciprofloxacin have been used successfully for treatment. Rifampin or macrolides are also used to treat both adults and children.\n\nBecause of the high rates of comorbid infections and conditions, multiple treatments are often required. These have included the use of corticosteroids for respiratory distress, red blood cell transfusions for anemia, pericardiectomies for pericardial tamponades, and other standard treatments.\n"}
{"id": "2010198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010198", "title": "Hungarian Army (disambiguation)", "text": "Hungarian Army (disambiguation)\n\nHungarian Army may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2010201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010201", "title": "Time Variance Authority", "text": "Time Variance Authority\n\nThe Time Variance Authority (or TVA) is a fictional organization, a group of timeline monitors appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. They first appeared in \"Thor\" vol. 1 #372 (October 1986). Created by Walt Simonson and Sal Buscema, the TVA originally paid homage to long-time Marvel writer/editor, and continuity expert, Mark Gruenwald: the TVA staff were all clones of Gruenwald.\n\nThe TVA claims responsibility for monitoring the multiverse and can prune timelines if they're deemed too dangerous to exist. They also take action to prevent other beings from altering the past or future. They were first seen, allowing Justice Peace, a lawman from the future, to travel to the 20th century in order to stop the killer Zaniac. Peace is able to succeed in his mission thanks to the assistance of Thor.\n\nDespite their claims, the TVA's influence over time is not absolute. The scope of their influence is bordered by Alioth in the distant past as well as Kang the Conqueror, the Delubric Consortium, and Revelation at different eras throughout the timescape. There have also been numerous incidents of time travel or reality tampering where the TVA has failed to interfere.\n\nAt the End of Time, the last Director of the TVA creates the Time Keepers, the last three beings who exist in the remaining timeline in the universe; however this process also ends up creating the Time Twisters, a trio of beings who imperiled all realities until stopped by Thor and other members of the Avengers.\n\nThe TVA are next seen utilizing the law-firm She-Hulk works for on several instances. Jurors for cases are plucked from time soon before they actually die, this is so the effects on the time-stream are minimal. This also establishes the tendencies for time-travelers to go through genetic scrambling, also to minimize the effect on the time-stream. Notably, the scrambling tends to cause similar looks among differing males who undergo the process. A defendant who is found guilty in one of these trials is executed with a weapon called the Retroactive Cannon, or Ret Can, which erases the victim, deleting their existence from the universe by undoing their birth and entire history. She-Hulk herself was handed this harsh sentence, but it was overturned as a reward when she helped defeat the villain Clockwise. (This weapon is an obvious reference to a retroactive continuity, or \"retcon\", a practice used by storytellers to add previously unknown material to an event in a previous story.)\n\nLower-ranked TVA employees, called chronomonitors, are literally faceless. They are created artificially, using \"quantum technology\" - the moment a new reality appears, a new faceless agent is created to monitor it, along with the necessary equipment (a personal computer-like device, plus a desk and a chair) to do so.\n\nCloned managers resemble Mark Gruenwald — and, later, Tom DeFalco — both longtime Marvel Comics writers. The most frequent recurring manager is Mobius M. Mobius, a Gruenwald clone.\n\nOn occasion, the TVA hires mercenaries for use in the more dangerous missions, such as Justice Peace and Death's Head. These mercenaries often lose limbs, which the TVA replaces with clunky robotic parts. Another example of their seemingly anachronistic technology is a time machine shaped like an old locomotive. Professor Justin Alphonse Gamble, a pastiche of the Doctor, is a renegade from the TVA.\n\n\nThe Time Variance Authority will make their Marvel Cinematic Universe debut in the Disney+ series \"Loki\". In the sneak peek for the series, Loki is wearing a prison uniform with the initials \"TVA\" in reference to the group.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2010205", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010205", "title": "Curtiss SBC Helldiver", "text": "Curtiss SBC Helldiver\n\nThe Curtiss SBC Helldiver was a two-seat scout bomber and dive bomber built by the Curtiss-Wright Corporation. It was the last military biplane procured by the United States Navy. Delivered in 1937, it became obsolete even before World War II and was kept well away from combat with Axis fighters.\nThere was controversy in the United States Navy's Bureau of Aeronautics (BuAer) in the early 1930s regarding two-seat fighter planes, monoplanes and the retractable undercarriage In 1931, the Navy issued Design Specification No. 113, which detailed a requirement for a high-performance fighter with fixed undercarriage to be powered by the Wright R-1510 or Pratt & Whitney's R-1535 radial engine. Seven companies submitted proposals and two companies, the Douglas Aircraft with their XFD-1 and the Chance Vought with their XF3U-1 were given contracts for one prototype each. Both of these aircraft were two-seat biplanes. The Navy then asked Curtiss to supply a prototype of a two-seat monoplane which was technically more advanced.\n\nOn 30 June 1932, BuAer signed a contract with Curtiss to design a two-seat monoplane with a parasol wing a retractable undercarriage and powered by a 625 hp (466 kW) Wright R-1510-92 fourteen cylinder, two row, air-cooled radial engine driving a two-blade propeller. This fighter was designated XF12C-1.\n\nThe SBC was an all-metal, two-seat scout-bomber biplane with “I”-type interplane struts. It was the last combat biplane the Navy purchased and the last combat biplane manufactured in the United States. The two crewmen, pilot and radio operator/gunner, were housed in tandem cockpits enclosed by a sliding canopy and the turtledeck behind the rear cockpit could be folded down to allow the gunner to use his machine gun. The wings, rudder, elevators and flaps were fabric covered. The main landing gear retracted into wheel wells in the fuselage just forward of the lower wing and the tail wheel retracted into the fuselage.\n\nThis aircraft was initially powered by a Wright R-1510-92 engine but this was unsuitable so the aircraft was re-engined with a 775 hp (578 kW) Wright R-1670 fourteen cylinder, two row, air-cooled radial engine, which was also unsatisfactory. Both of these engines were prototypes and neither went into production. Finally, the 700 hp (522 kW) Wright R-1820-80 nine cylinder, single row, air-cooled radial engine was installed and the resulting aircraft, designated XF12C-1 flew in 1933. Designed for aircraft carrier usage, the parasol wing folded back, a new feature for the Navy, for storage and the aircraft had an exposed tail hook for carrier landings. The first flight was in July 1933 but in September 1934, the parasol wing failed in the dive bomber tests.\n\nAfter testing the XF12C-1 was rejected as a fighter, and on 7 December 1933 this aircraft was redesignated in the scout category as the XS4C-1 and re-engined with a 700 hp (522 kW) Wright R-1820-80 radial engine driving a two-blade propeller. In its role as a scouting aircraft, bombing equipment for a 500-pound (227-kilogram) bomb had to be designed and provided.\n\nIn January 1934 the designation scout bomber (SB) was introduced and the aircraft was finally redesignated XSBC-1. In early 1934 flight tests, especially dive-bombing, began. On 14 June 1934 this aircraft crashed- attributed to wing failure- in Lancaster, New York, about 6 mi (9.66 km) from the Curtiss plant, during one of the tests and it was destroyed.\n\nCurtiss-Wright made a proposal to the Navy to build one replacement aircraft that would be a staggered wing biplane, would not have folding wings but would have leading edge slots and the lower wing would have full span flaps. It was an all-metal aircraft with fabric covered control surfaces. It was powered by a 700 hp (522 kW) Wright XR-1510-12 fourteen-cylinder, twin-row, air-cooled engine driving a constant speed Curtiss Electric three-blade propeller, an enlarged canopy, enlarged vertical fin and rudder and retractable tail hook. The XSBC-2 had to engage in competitive tests against the Great Lakes Aircraft's XB2G-1 and the Grumman Aircraft Engineering's XSBF-1. The XSBC-2 won and a contract for this aircraft was signed in April 1935 and it made its first flight on 9 December 1935.\n\nThe Wright XR-1510-12 engine in the XSBC-2 proved to be mechanically unreliable. In March 1936, this aircraft was re-engined with a 700 hp (522 kW) Pratt & Whitney R-1535-82 fourteen-cylinder, twin-row, air-cooled engine driving a three-blade propeller and redesignated XSBC-3. With this new configuration, the Navy placed a production order.\n\nThe major difference between the prototype XSBC-3 and the production aircraft was the engine. A contract for 83 aircraft was signed in August 1936 and deliveries began on 17 July 1937. The production aircraft were powered by an 825 hp (615 kW) Pratt & Whitney R-1535-94 fourteen-cylinder, twin-row, air-cooled engine driving a three-blade propeller. Armament consisted of two 0.30-caliber (7.62 mm) machine guns, one fixed gun in the right side of the fuselage forward of the pilot and a flexible gun in the rear cockpit. The aircraft had a bomb displacement swing located on the centerline of the fuselage for a 500-lb (227-kg) bomb or a 45-U.S.-gallon (170-liter) fuel tank.\n\nThe 76th SBC-3 was re-engined with a 950-hp (708 kW) Wright R-1820-22 nine-cylinder, single-row, air-cooled radial engine driving a three-blade Hamilton Standard propeller and redesignated XSBC-4. The aircraft armament increased to one 0.50-caliber (12.7-mm) fixed machine gun in the right side of the fuselage forward of the pilot and a 0.30-caliber (7.62-mm) flexible machine gun in the rear cockpit. With the more powerful engine, this aircraft could carry a 1,000-lb (454-kg) bomb on the bomb displacement swing located on the centerline of the fuselage. A second SBC-3 was redesignated XSBC-4 and used for test work.\n\nThe contract for 124 production aircraft of the XSBC-4 was signed on 5 January 1938 and deliveries began in March 1939 to April 1941.\n\nIn August 1936, the Navy signed a contract for 83 SBC-3s (Curtiss Model 77A). Delivery of the SBC-3s to the fleet began on 17 July 1937 when the first aircraft were issued to Scouting Squadron Five (VS-5) serving in USS \"Yorktown\" (CV-5) however, \"Yorktown\" was not commissioned until 30 September 1937 and the ship then began sea trials. On 10 December 1937, VS-5 went aboard \"Yorktown\" and served aboard her until replaced by Douglas SBD-3s Dauntlesses in 1940.\n\nBy June 1938, three of the five scouting squadrons serving in aircraft carriers were equipped with SBC-3s while the other two were equipped with Vought SBU-1s. The three ships with SBC-3s were:\n\n\nOne of the SBC-3s was kept at the factory and redesignated XSBC-4 (Curtiss Model 77B). This aircraft was re-engined with the 750 hp (559 kW) Wright R-1820-22 nine cylinder, single row, air-cooled engine\n\nThe initial contract for 58 SBC-4s was signed on 5 January 1938. This was followed by two additional contracts, one for 31 Helldivers on 27 July 1938 and the third contract for 35 aircraft on 13 August 1938. Total aircraft contracted for was 124. The aircraft were powered by the 850 hp (634 kW) Wright R-1820-24 engine.\n\nThe first squadron to receive the SBC-4s was VS-2 in USS \"Lexington\" (CV-2) replacing the Vought SBU-1s. By 26 June 1939, VS-2 was fully equipped with 21 aircraft. This was the only aircraft carrier that flew the SBC-4 and they were replaced by Douglas SBD-2 and -3 Dauntlesses in 1941.\n\nBecause of the expanding aviation training program, the majority of SBC-4s, and other training aircraft, were assigned to Naval Reserve Air Bases (NRABs) to allow reserve Navy and Marine airmen assigned to reserve scouting squadrons (VS and VMS) and maintain their proficiency. By June 1940, 11 NRABs had SBC-4s as follows:\n\n\nAs time advanced, the Navy acquired newer, more modern aircraft and the SBC-3s were replaced by the Douglas SBD Dauntless. By 7 December 1941, the U.S. Navy and Marine Corps had 69 SBC-3s and 118 SBC-4s in the inventory based at NASs, NRABs and the Naval Aircraft Factory (NAF) in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. The largest number were at NAS Miami, Florida where they were used for intermediate and dive bombing training.\n\nIn December 1941, the SBCs were based at:\n\nHornet was undergoing sea trials in the Atlantic on 7 December and the two squadrons kept their SBC-4s until the ship sailed to San Diego, California in March 1942. At that time, the two squadrons had transitioned to the SBD-3 Dauntless and she became the last ship to operate the SBC aboard aircraft carriers.\n\nAn additional 50 SBC-4s, originally ordered by the French, were built between February and May 1941 to replace those sent overseas. The major change was replacing the 135-U.S.-gallon (511-liter) fuselage fuel tank with a 126-U.S. gallon (477-liter) self-sealing fuel tank. The last SBC-4 was delivered in May 1941.\n\nBy 1944, the SBC-3s were no longer needed and they were stricken from the inventory. The longest to survive were 12 aircraft at NAS Jacksonville, Florida which were stricken on 31 October 1944.\n\nThe U.S. Marines received one SBC-3 in 1938 and which was assigned to Marine Fighter Squadron Two (VMF-2, redesignated VMF-211 on 1 July 1941) at NAS San Diego, California. It was sent to the Battle Fleet Pool in June 1939.\n\nIn January 1940, the Marine Corps had four SBC-4s. Two were based at Marine Corps Air Station (MCAS), Quantico, Virginia; one was assigned to VMF-1 (redesignated VMF-111 on 1 July 1941) and the second, the XSBC-4, was assigned to Marine Utility Squadron One (VMJ-1 redesignated VMJ-152 on 7 July 1941). The other two aircraft were based at NAS, San Diego, California; one SBC-4 was assigned to VMF-2 and the second to VMJ-2 (redesignated VMJ-252 on 1 July 1941).\n\nOn 7 December 1941, the Marine Corps had 23 SBC-4s in their inventory. Twelve of them were assigned to a Marine observation squadron (VMO):\n\n\nVMO-151 transferred to Tafuna (now Pago Pago International Airport), Tutuila Island, American Samoa, on 9 May 1942 with their SBC-4s. The squadron was redesignated Marine Scout Bombing Squadron One Hundred Fifty One (VMSB-151) on 15 September 1942. A second observation squadron, VMO-155, was commissioned in American Samoa on 1 October 1942 by taking half of VMSB-151's personnel and equipment. VMO-155 received ten SBC-4s and a Grumman J2F-5 Goose however, six officers and 15 enlisted men of the squadron returned to the U.S. on 8 December 1942 as a nucleus to form a new VMO-155 and the remaining personnel were transferred to Guadalcanal Island in the Solomon Islands.\n\nIn December 1942, the VMSB-151 SBC-4s were being replaced by Douglas SBD Dauntlesses and by June 1943, the squadron had been fully equipped with SBD-4s and they moved to Uvea Island in the Wallis Group leaving their SBC-4s behind.\n\nThe last SBC reported in Marine squadron service was an SBC-4 at American Samoa in service with VMSB-151 on 1 June 1943.\n\nWhen World War II began in 1939, Britain and France came to the U.S. shopping for military aircraft. In early 1940, the French government placed an order with Curtiss-Wright for 90 SBC-4s. To aid the French, on 6 June 1940 the Franklin D. Roosevelt Administration ordered the U.S. Navy to fly 50 SBC-4s of the Naval Reserve, currently in use by the Navy, to the Curtiss-Wright factory in Buffalo, New York where the 50 planes would be refurbished to French standards. This included removing all U.S. markings on instruments and equipment, replacing the American machine guns with French 7.7-millimeter (0.303-caliber) Darne machine guns and repainting the aircraft in French camouflage colors. Once converted, the aircraft were to be delivered to RCAF Station Dartmouth, Nova Scotia, Canada where they would be loaded onto the French aircraft carrier \"Béarn\".\n\nSeveral neutrality acts had been passed by the U.S. Congress and signed into law and the Neutrality Act of 1939 allowed for arms trade with belligerent nations (Great Britain and France) on a \"cash-and-carry\" basis. \"Cash and carry\" allowed the sale of materiel to belligerents, as long as the recipients arranged for the transport using their own ships or planes and paid immediately in cash. Because of this provision, the U.S. could not fly military aircraft into Canada; they had to land in the U.S. and be towed across the Canada–US border. The 50 aircraft were to fly from Buffalo, New York to Houlton Airport, Maine via Burlington, Vermont and Augusta, Maine. Houlton Airport, Maine, was on the Canada–US border and local farmers used their tractors to tow the planes into New Brunswick, Canada, where the Canadians closed the Woodstock highway so that aircraft could use it as a runway and fly to RCAF Station Dartmouth.\n\nThe 50 SBC-4s were to fly to RCAF Station Dartmouth in groups of three. One of the first groups that left encountered rain and fog while flying between Buffalo and Albany, New York and one of the aircraft crashed. The remaining 49 aircraft were successfully flown to Nova Scotia to be loaded onto \"Béarn\" and the light cruiser . Because of space limitations, only 44 of the SBC-4s could be carried on FR \"Béarn\"; because she also had 25 Stinson Model HW-75s (also known as Stinson 105s), 17 Curtiss H75-A1s (U.S. Army Air Corps P-36 and six Brewster F2A-2 Buffalos for the Belgian Air Force. The \"Jeanne d'Arc\" carried 14 crated, unassembled aircraft, eight Stinson Model HW-75s and six Curtiss H75-A1s.\n\nThe two ships sailed from Halifax on 16 June 1940 bound for Brest, France. Two days later, Brest fell into German hands and both ships were ordered to Fort-de-France, Martinique, French West Indies, an island in the Lesser Antilles in the eastern Caribbean Sea. They arrived on 27 June, five days after France surrendered to the Germans. The SBC-4s were unloaded and rolled to a field at the Pointe des Sables region and stored in the open. Under tropical climatic conditions, the aircraft stored in the open were slowly rotting and were no longer airworthy and were eventually scrapped.\n\nFive of the French aircraft could not fit on FR \"Béarn\" and were left at RCAF Station Dartmouth. In August 1940, the Royal Air Force acquired them, designated them \"Cleveland Mk. Is\" and shipped them to England in the aircraft carrier HMS \"Furious\". They were assembled at RAF Burtonwood, Lancashire, and delivered to RAF Little Rissington, Gloucestershire and later used by No. 24 (Communications) Squadron at RAF Hendon, Middlesex. These aircraft were never used operationally and became ground trainers.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2010207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010207", "title": "Winghead shark", "text": "Winghead shark\n\nThe winghead shark (\"Eusphyra blochii\") is a species of hammerhead shark, and part of the family Sphyrnidae. Reaching a length of , this small brown to gray shark has a slender body with a tall, sickle-shaped first dorsal fin. Its name comes from its exceptionally large \"hammer\", or cephalofoil, which can be as wide as half of the shark's total length. The function of this structure is unclear, but may relate to the shark's senses. The wide spacing of its eyes grants superb binocular vision, while the extremely long nostrils on the leading margin of the cephalofoil may allow for better detection and tracking of odor trails in the water. The cephalofoil also provides a large surface area for its ampullae of Lorenzini and lateral line, with potential benefits for electroreception and mechanoreception, respectively.\n\nInhabiting the shallow coastal waters of the central and western Indo-Pacific, the winghead shark feeds on small bony fishes, crustaceans, and cephalopods. It gives birth to live young, with the developing embryos receiving nourishment through a placental connection. Females produce annual litters of 6 to 25 pups; depending on region, birthing may occur from February to June after a gestation period of 8–11 months. This harmless species is widely fished for meat, fins, liver oil, and fishmeal. The International Union for Conservation of Nature has assessed it as Endangered in 2016, as it is thought to have declined in some parts of its range due to overfishing.\n\nIn 1785, German naturalist Marcus Elieser Bloch described a shark that he referred to \"Squalus zygaena\" (a synonym of \"Sphyrna zygaena\", the smooth hammerhead). French zoologist Georges Cuvier, as a brief footnote to the account of \"S. zygaena\" in his 1817 \"Le Règne animal distribué d'après son organisation, pour servir de base à l'histoire naturelle des animaux et d'introduction à l'anatomie comparée\", observed that Bloch's specimen (which he labeled \"\"z. nob. Blochii\"\") was not a smooth hammerhead, but rather a different species. Although Cuvier did not propose a proper binomial name, his colleague Achille Valenciennes interpreted it as such in 1822 when he described another specimen of the same species in detail, calling it \"Zygaena Blochii nobis\" and attributing the name to Cuvier.\n\nIn 1862, Theodore Gill placed the winghead shark in its own genus \"Eusphyra\", derived from the Greek \"eu\" (\"good\") and \"sphyra\" (\"hammer\"). However, subsequent authors did not accept \"Eusphyra\" and preferred to keep this species with the other hammerheads in the genus \"Sphyrna\". \"Eusphyra\" was resurrected by Henry Bigelow and William Schroeder in 1948, and came into wider usage after additional taxonomic research was published by Leonard Compagno in 1979 and 1988. Nevertheless, some sources still refer to this species as \"Sphyrna blochii\". Other common names for the winghead shark include arrowhead, arrow-headed hammerhead shark, and slender hammerhead.\n\nThe traditional view of hammerhead shark evolution is that species with smaller cephalofoils evolved first from a requiem shark ancestor, and later gave rise to species with larger cephalofoils. Under this interpretation, the winghead shark is the most derived hammerhead, as it has the most extreme cephalofoil morphology. However, molecular phylogenetic research based on isozymes, mitochondrial DNA, and nuclear DNA have found the opposite pattern, with the winghead shark as the most basal member of the hammerhead family. This result supports the counterintuitive idea that the first hammerhead shark to evolve had a large cephalofoil. It also supports the separation of \"Eusphyra\" from \"Sphyrna\" by keeping the latter monophyletic (including all descendants of a single ancestor). The winghead shark lineage is estimated to have diverged from the rest of the hammerheads some 15–20 million years ago during the Miocene.\n\nTrue to its name, the winghead shark's cephalofoil consists of a pair of long, narrow, and gently swept-back blades. The width of the cephalofoil is equal to 40–50% of the shark's total length. The front of the cephalofoil has a slight indentation in the middle and a gentle bump on each side in front of the nostrils. Each nostril is roughly twice as long as the width of the mouth and extends along almost the entire leading margin of each blade. The circular eyes, located at the forward outer corners of the cephalofoil, are equipped with protective nictitating membranes. The relatively small, arched mouth contains 15–16 upper and 14 lower tooth rows on each side, and sometimes also a single row of tiny teeth at the upper and/or lower symphyses (jaw midpoints). The teeth are small and smooth-edged, with angled triangular cusps. Five pairs of gill slits are seen, with the fifth pair over the pectoral fin origins.\n\nThe body is slim and streamlined, with a very tall, narrow, and falcate (sickle-shaped) first dorsal fin that originates over the bases of the rather small pectoral fins. The second dorsal fin is much smaller and originates over the aft third of the anal fin base. The anal fin is about half again as long as the second dorsal fin. A lengthwise groove is on the caudal peduncle at the dorsal origin of the caudal fin. The upper caudal fin lobe is longer than the lower lobe, and bears a notch in the trailing margin near the tip. The skin is covered by overlapping dermal denticles, each with three horizontal ridges leading to marginal teeth. This species is brownish gray to gray above and off-white below, and lacks fin markings. It grows up to long.\n\nThe winghead shark is found in the tropical central and western Indo-Pacific, from the Persian Gulf eastward across South and Southeast Asia to New Guinea and northern Queensland. Its range extends as far north as Taiwan and as far south as the Montebello Islands off Western Australia. This species inhabits shallow waters close to shore and has been known to enter estuaries.\n\nSeveral nonexclusive hypotheses have been proposed to explain the extreme size of the winghead shark's cephalofoil. The placement of the eyes at the ends of the cephalofoil provides a binocular field of view of 48°, the most of any hammerhead and four times that of a requiem shark; this species thus has excellent depth perception, which may aid in hunting. This species also has proportionately the longest nostrils among the hammerheads; longer nostrils contain more chemosensory receptors and can sample more water at a time, increasing the chances of detecting an odor molecule. A winghead shark long is theoretically capable of sampling over of water per second. Another potential olfactory benefit of the cephalofoil is increased separation between the midpoints of the left and right nostrils, which enhances the shark's ability to resolve the direction of a scent trail. Finally, the cephalofoil may increase the shark's ability to detect the electric fields and movements of its prey, by providing a larger surface area for its electroreceptive ampullae of Lorenzini and mechanoreceptive lateral line. The lateral blades seem too large to function in maneuvering, which has been suggested for other hammerheads.\n\nThe winghead shark usually hunts close to the sea floor. Its diet consists mainly of small bony fishes, followed by crustaceans and cephalopods. Known parasites of this species include the tapeworms \"Callitetrarhynchus blochii\", \"Heteronybelinia heteromorphi\", \"Otobothrium carcharidis\", \"O. mugilis\", \"Phoreiobothrium puriensis\", and \"Phyllobothrium blochii\", the nematodes \"Hysterothylacium ganeshi\", \"Pseudanisakis\" sp., \"Raphidascaroides blochii\", and \"Terranova\" sp., the copepod \"Caligus furcisetifer\", and the protozoan \"Eimeria zygaenae\".\n\nThe winghead shark is viviparous like the rest of its family, with the developing young sustained to term by a placental connection to the mother. Adult females have a single functional ovary, on the right, and two functional uteri. Compartments form inside the uteri during pregnancy, one for each embryo. In the waters around Mumbai, the mating season is in July and August during the monsoon. The males bite at the sides of the females as a prelude to copulation. Females can reproduce every year; the litter size ranges from 6 to 25 pups, and increases with the size of the female. The gestation period lasts 8–9 months off western India, and 10–11 months off northern Australia. Pregnant females have been reported to quarrel with each other.\n\nInitially, the embryo is nourished by yolk and develops in a similar fashion to other sharks. At a length of , the cephalofoil and the fins begin to form. When the embryo is long, the yolk supply begins to run low and folds appear on the yolk sac and uterine wall, which later interlock to form the placenta. At this stage, the embryo has most of the features of an adult, albeit rudimentary and colorless. The blades of the cephalofoil are folded back along the body, and long external gill filaments protrude from the gill slits. At a length of , the placenta has formed; the first teeth, dermal denticles, and skin pigmentation appear on the embryo, and the external gills are much reduced in size. By the time the embryo is long, it resembles a miniature version of the adult.\n\nBirthing takes place in May and June off Mumbai and Parangipettai, in March and April in the Gulf of Mannar, and in February and March off northern Australia. The pups emerge tail first, and their cephalofoils remain folded until after birth to facilitate passage through the cloaca. The newborns measure in length. Sexual maturity is reached at around long for males and long for females. The maximum lifespan is at least 21 years.\n\nHarmless to humans, the winghead shark is caught throughout its range using gillnets, seines, stake nets, longlines, and hook-and-line. The meat is sold fresh, the fins are exported to Asia for shark fin soup, the liver is a source of vitamin oil, and the offal is processed into fishmeal. This species is taken in large numbers in some areas, such as in the Gulf of Thailand and off India and Indonesia, and anecdotal evidence indicates its population has suffered as a result. The International Union for Conservation of Nature has listed the winghead shark as Endangered. This species is only infrequently caught in Australian waters, where it has been assessed regionally as Least Concern by the IUCN.\n\n"}
{"id": "2010219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010219", "title": "Cannstatter Volksfest", "text": "Cannstatter Volksfest\n\nThe Cannstatter Volksfest is an annual three-week Volksfest (beer festival and travelling funfair) in Stuttgart, Germany. It is sometimes also referred to by foreign visitors as the Stuttgart Beer Festival, although it is actually more of an autumnal fair.\n\nThe festival takes place at the Cannstatter Wasen from late September to early October, spanning a period over three weekends, ending the second Sunday in October. The extensive Wasen area is in the Stuttgart city district of Bad Cannstatt, near the river Neckar. A smaller variant of the Stuttgart festival, the Stuttgart Spring Festival, is also held each year in Wasen.\nAlthough the Volksfest is not strictly speaking a beer festival, it is considered by many to be the second largest beer celebration in the world after the Munich Oktoberfest. According to estimates about 4.2 million people visited the festival in 2006. The Volksfest begins one week later than the Oktoberfest.\n\nCannstatter Volksfest – Wasen <br>\nFrom an agricultural event to a famous festival\n\nColorful flashing lights, the squealing and rattling of unknown machines, the smell of burned almonds, \"Göckele\" (roasted chicken) and stockfish affects all your senses. Above the noise you can hear the bandmaster shouting out typical slogans like \"die Krüge hoch\". No doubt, it’s \"Volksfest\" time in Bad Cannstatt. Annually around four million festival people gather at the biggest carnival festival in the world since 1818.\n\nIn 1815 a gigantic eruption of the Vulcano Tambora in Indonesia led to a climatic catastrophe even in Europe. The incredible explosion hurled around 100 cubic km of rocks, ashes and dust up to 70 km high and darkened the sky. The blast equalled to 170,000 Hiroshima bombs. The shockwave could be felt 1,500 km away. 10,000 people died due to the eruption. Another 100,000 died because of the aftermath. The dust particles were distributed by the jet stream around the world and caused crop failure and famine in Europe.\n\nThe winter of 1815/16 in Wurttemberg was the coldest since weather records were kept. Snow until May, no summer, alternating rain, whipping hail and thunderstorms continued into the growth season. This made bringing in a harvest in those years not possible. Throughout Germany, people were starving. The little existing flour was stretched with sawdust and the planted potatoes were dug up again. The need of the people was indescribable.\n\nWhen Wilhelm I. became King of Wurttemberg in 1816, the crisis of the people couldn’t be any worse. His brother in law, Czar Nikolaus of Russia, helped him to relieve the biggest misery with deliveries of grain. <br>\nThen, in 1817, when the first harvest wagon was brought in, King Wilhelm and his Russian wife Katharina had the glorious idea to sponsor a harvest festival. This should take place annually on the King’s birthday on September, 28th in the area of the Cannstatter Wasen.\n\nThe first festival in 1818 lasted one day and had more than 30,000 visitors. At the time the village of Cannstatt had a population of 3000. The Royal Couple donated cash prizes and honorary awards for outstanding agricultural accomplishment. The festival was designed to encourage the farmers.\n\nAt the same time the popular monarch couple established an agricultural school in Hohenheim Palace. This set the foundation for today’s agricultural university. Due to this and other outstanding efforts the young monarch was titled \"King of the farmers\" and \"Farmer amongst kings\". In the German Agricultural Museum many of the developments, e.g. the double bladed plow, can still be seen.\n\nFrom agricultural festival to people festival\n\nThe most important activities of the festival had been the award for breeding performance and the display of agricultural efficiency of the Wurttemberg farmers. The first food shops and carnies showed up with the first festival. The vendors attracted the people with sauerkraut, sausage and a lot of sweet fancy foods. A market completed the culinary choices. The carnies presented the strongest men, the fattest women and a lot of other curiosities. Through the years the festival grew larger and larger and transformed from the \"Agricultural festival of Kannstadt\" to the \"Cannstatter Volksfest\".\n\nDuring the 19th century the first festival lasted one day, by 1920 it was extended to five days and since 1972 the Volksfest has been celebrated for 16 days.\n\nIn the beginning, there had only been a few Volksfest-carnies and beer counters. They were moved to the edge of the festival in favour of the royal lounge and the stand for the dignitaries. In 1860 the layout of the festival was three main streets and numerous side streets to handle the yearly increasing crowds. Today with around 350 companies, the Cannstatter Volksfest is the biggest carnival-festival worldwide. 4 to 5 million visitors are attracted to it.\n\nKing Wilhelm assigned his royal builder Nikolaus Thouret to create an emblem next to the royal lounge in the middle of the festival areal. He created the fruit pillar as a symbol for thanksgiving which is still the emblem of the Volksfest. Placed on top of the 23 m high pillar sits a bowl with fruits. Only the highest mobile Ferris wheels of the world is towering above it.\n\nToday, the parade on the first festival Sunday is one of the most popular events of the Canstatter Volksfest. Nearly one hundred historical groups of town militia, Shepard-dancing-groups, festival wagons representing different crafts, groups dressed in traditional clothing and groups of musicians, create this colorful \"Lindworm\". There are still groups in traditional clothes and professional period groups, which have taken part in the festival since 1841.\n\nBased on the German article: \"Fruchtsäule, Festzelt, Ferkel\" by Wulf Wagner.\n\nThe festival offers a variety of attractions including numerous amusement rides, 73 stands ranging from shooting galleries to raffles, 95 food stands, and Chandler's market with 60 market stalls and a boxing show.\n\nSymbolic of the Cannstatter Wasen is its \"fruit column\", a wooden pillar decorated with fruit, 26 metres high and weighing 3.5 tons. After World War I, with the beginning of the Weimar Republic, the fruit column was removed from the Cannstatter Wasen as it was considered a relic of the monarchy. Since 1935, the 100th anniversary, it has been back in its traditional place. Until recently the fruit column, the design of which has changed over the years, was dismantled after each Volksfest. Every few years it is redesigned. Since 1995 it has been left in place throughout the year and is thus also on display at the Stuttgart spring festival. In recent years only the tip has been dismantled leaving the lower portion in place housing information stands and the Cannstatter \"city can\".\n2018 the Jubilee Column (Stuttgart’s Schlossplatz square), which was built to mark the 25th year of the government and the 60th birthday of King Wilhelm I of Württemberg, will, like the Fruit Column on the Wasen, will be festively decorated in a harvest festival theme. \nTypical rides include:\n\nToday, there are seven large beer tents on the Cannstatter Wasen for people to celebrate in. They either have their own name or carry the name of the brewery supplying the beer.\n\nSince 1982 the tents of Laub, Grandl and Klauss have been located by the fruit column. Each tent takes it in turn to host the opening ceremony. The price for a Maß is usually the same in all tents.\n\nFor years the French village was an integral part of the Cannstatter Volksfest. By 2004, there were 33 food stands offering French meals and beverages along with traditional French music. The village was relaunched as an Alpine village in October 2008.\n\nTraditionally a parade also takes place at the Wasen, usually on the first Sunday. In 1954 a record number of spectators attended the parade along the route from Stuttgart's central square to the Wasen site: 300,000. The Mohrenköpfle is a pig in the parade. On the orders of King Wilhelm I, masked pigs (Maskenschweine?) were imported from Central China in 1820/21, in order to improve pig breeding in the kingdom of Baden-Württemberg. This crossbreeding with the \"Chinese pigs\" was particularly successful within the stocks of domestic pigs in the Hohenlohe region and the area around the town of Schwäbisch Hall.\n\nGerman Reunification is marked every year on 3 October by a firework display.\n\nEvery three years an agricultural exhibition (\"Landwirtschaftliches Hauptfest\") is included in the main celebration. This was the original Cannstatter Wasen Volksfest. Unlike the Volksfest, there is an entrance fee to visit the exhibition. The last exhibition of this kind was in 2015.\n\nThe festival is opened by a ceremony in which the incumbent Lord Mayor of Stuttgart tries to tap the first barrel of beer with as few hits as possible. This takes place on a Friday in late September, so that the duration of the festival is actually 17 days.\n\nThe food stands and attractions are open between Monday and Friday from noon (beer tents from 11 am). Saturdays, Sundays, and Bank Holidays everything opens at 11am. Closing hours are 11pm Sunday through Thursday; 11.30pm Friday, Saturday, and the day before Bank Holidays (although music is stopped at 11pm).\nStuttgart, the state capital of Baden Württemberg, will celebrate a quite special double jubilee together with the federal state in 2018 – 200 years Cannstatter Volksfest and the 100th “Landwirtschaftliches Hauptfest” – by holding a Historical Volksfest in the heart of the city.\nIn Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, US, a Cannstatter Volkfest is celebrated each year on Labor Day, including German beer and food.\n"}
{"id": "2010226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010226", "title": "William Mitchell College of Law", "text": "William Mitchell College of Law\n\nWilliam Mitchell College of Law was a private, independent law school located in St. Paul, Minnesota, United States, from 1956 to 2015. Accredited by the American Bar Association (ABA), it offered full- and part-time legal education in pursuit of the Juris Doctor (J.D.) degree. On December 9, 2015, William Mitchell merged with its longtime rival, the Hamline University School of Law, and became the Mitchell Hamline School of Law.\n\nWilliam Mitchell was the product of five predecessor schools, all in the Twin Cities, which ultimately merged in 1956. Although they varied in size and location, each one was originally established as a part-time, evening-program law school. This was meant to open the doors of the legal profession to men and women working full-time to support themselves and their families.\n\nWilliam Mitchell's first predecessor, the St. Paul College of Law, was founded in 1900 by five attorneys in Ramsey County. They intended the school to be an alternative for legal education in the state, with the only others being the University of Minnesota Law School and the outmoded nineteenth-century practice of \"reading\" law with a licensed practitioner.\n\nThree of the five were transplants from the east coast: Hiram F. Stevens, Clarence Halbert, and Ambrose Tighe. Stevens, a Vermont native, had read law with New York Court of Appeals Judge John K. Porter and graduated from Columbia Law School. When former Justice William Mitchell of the Minnesota Supreme Court died before assuming the deanship, Stevens took his place. Halbert came from New York, having graduated from Yale Law School. Tighe, also from New York, earned bachelor's and master's degrees from Yale, where he was a member of the college's Skull and Bones society. The other two founders, Thomas O'Brien and Moses Clapp, came from Minnesota and Indiana. O'Brien read law in St. Paul and later served as a justice of the Minnesota Supreme Court. Clapp graduated from the University of Wisconsin Law School, served three terms as Minnesota Attorney General, and later represented Minnesota in the United States Senate.\n\nThe St. Paul College of Law's first class had twenty students and annual tuition amounted to $60. During its official existence, the school was housed in three different locations, all in downtown St. Paul. Classes were originally held in the top floor of the former Ramsey County Courthouse, which had stood at Fourth and Wabasha Streets before being torn down. In 1917, the school moved to the McColl Building, which still stands today, at Fifth and Jackson Streets. Finally, from 1921 until after the merger, the law school occupied what was known as the Berkey Mansion, at Sixth and College Streets. That building, also long since torn down, was located in the middle of the current Kellogg Boulevard, just south of the entrance to the Minnesota History Center.\n\nUntil 1938, when it was accredited by the ABA, the law school relied entirely upon local attorneys and judges for its faculty and administration. One of them was Harry Blackmun, a professor at the St. Paul College of Law from 1935 to 1941. Years later, after the merger, Justice Blackmun also served as a Trustee of William Mitchell. Others were Minnesota Supreme Court Justices George Bunn and Oscar Hallam, both of whom served as deans of the law school while on the bench.\n\nFour Minneapolis law schools followed: the Northwestern College of Law and the Minneapolis College of Law in 1912, the Minnesota College of Law in 1913, and the YMCA College of Law in 1919. Their apparent lack of institutional stability stands in contrast to the history of the St. Paul school. Among them they occupied more than a dozen different locations in downtown Minneapolis and were often beset by financial difficulties.\n\nThe Northwestern school was founded by George Young, a University of Minnesota law graduate and local entrepreneur. When the University of Minnesota began to consider discontinuing its part-time evening program in 1912, Young sensed an opportunity and stepped into the breach to provide a similar service. Northwestern operated without incident until 1926, when Young died. By 1928, the school had declared bankruptcy and its students transferred to the Minneapolis College of Law. Similarly, the YMCA school ceased functioning in 1934, despite discussions of a formal merger with the Minnesota College of Law.\n\nAlthough incorporated in 1912, the Minneapolis school did not offer any formal classes until 1925. Its existence was dominated by funding issues, which were only alleviated by a formal merger with the Minnesota College of Law in 1940. The Minnesota school had been the most solvent of the four, so the two surviving Minneapolis law schools became one, the Minneapolis-Minnesota College of Law.\n\nDiscussions of a merger between the St. Paul College of Law and the Minneapolis-Minnesota College of Law began in 1952, but it wasn't until 1955 that they yielded tangible results. Due to shortcomings in the size of the faculty and its physical location, Minneapolis-Minnesota was repeatedly unsuccessful in gaining ABA approval. Without it, their students were not eligible for tuition assistance through the G.I. Bill. John Hervey, long-serving adviser to the ABA Section of Legal Education and Admission to the Bar, used the situation to help accomplish his goal of \"improving legal education by pruning away the weak law schools and strengthening those that remained.\" Hervey intimated to the Minneapolis-Minnesota Trustees that he could ensure ABA approval so long as the school agreed to merge with the St. Paul College of Law. Conversely, Hervey hinted to the St. Paul Trustees that their school could lose ABA approval if they didn't agree to move forward with the merger.\n\nIn July 1956, after renewed negotiations prompted by Hervey, the Minneapolis-Minnesota College of Law (armed with provisional approval from the ABA) united with the St. Paul College of Law to become William Mitchell College of Law. The consolidated Board of Trustees selected the name to honor the St. Paul school's unofficial \"first\" dean, William B. Mitchell, who had been widely regarded as one of the finest U.S. jurists of the late nineteenth century.\n\nThe most pressing issue for WMCL Trustees after the merger was finding a new, permanent home for the school. The school reached an agreement with the University of St. Thomas to purchase land and construct its own building on the latter's undergraduate campus, located at 2100 Summit Avenue. In the interim, students enrolled at what was in name the same law school attended classes in different cities, with the Minneapolis students at their downtown campus and the St. Paul students at the Berkey Mansion. It wasn't until 1958 that the school truly unified under one roof.\n\nThe next few decades saw rapid expansion for the school and its programs. By 1976, William Mitchell had outgrown the space at St. Thomas and required larger facilities. The administration successfully purchased the building at 875 Summit Avenue, a former Catholic secondary school called Our Lady of Peace. In 1974, William Mitchell had launched its flagship legal journal, the \"William Mitchell Law Review\". By 1980, William Mitchell began offering traditional daytime classes and the option of full-time enrollment. In 1990, the school completed work on its campus additions, which included a new classroom building and the Warren E. Burger Law Library. The library houses WMCL's collection of nearly a half-million volumes, affords electronic access to thousands of additional documents, and provides extensive study space. Justice Sandra Day O'Connor accompanied Chief Justice Burger to the dedication. Continuing its tradition of attracting adjunct faculty from the state and federal bench, Donald Lay, Paul Magnuson, Donovan Frank, Edward Toussaint, Jr. and others have taught and continue teaching at WMCL. In 2010, William Mitchell launched an intellectual property law journal, Cybaris.\n\nIn 2000, to celebrate its one hundred years of legal education, Governor Jesse Ventura declared November 19–25 \"William Mitchell Centennial Week\" throughout the state. Later, William Mitchell became one of two law schools in the country that refused to let military recruiters on campus in protest against the Solomon Amendment.\n\nAccording to William Mitchell's ABA-required employment disclosures, 59.1% of the Class of 2013 obtained full-time, long-term employment requiring a J.D. William Mitchell's Law School Transparency under-employment score is 19.1%, indicating the percentage of the Class of 2013 who are unemployed, pursuing an additional degree, or working in a non-professional, short-term, or part-time job nine months after graduation.\n\nTuition at William Mitchell for the 2014–2015 academic year is $38,620. The estimated cost of living provided by the school is $19,450. Assuming no tuition increases, a typical three-year course of study at William Mitchell therefore costs $174,210, or $58,070 per year.\n\nWilliam Mitchell's 2012 entering class has 260 students, 81% of whom attend full-time. The median undergraduate GPA is 3.38 and the median LSAT score is 155. 51% of the class are men and 49% are women. 13% list themselves as minorities. Total enrollment of 930 students makes it one of the largest law schools in the Midwest.\n\nCurrently, the school is unranked by \"U.S. News and World Report\". The school's part-time program is ranked 40th. The magazine has also consistently ranked the school's clinical program as one of the best.\n\nNational Jurist ranks William Mitchell #12 overall among law schools for public interest.\n\nAll 1Ls participate in a comprehensive course called Writing and Representation: Advice & Persuasion, or simply \"WRAP.\" It focuses on legal research, reasoning, and writing, while providing a broad overview of critical skills like client interviewing and counseling, contract negotiation and drafting, dispute mediation, and pretrial litigation.\n\nAs 2Ls or 3Ls, students must take Advocacy, a course designed to teach basic litigation skills. Students are instructed in conducting discovery, examining witnesses, introducing exhibits, presenting opening and closing arguments, and presenting written and oral appellate arguments.\n\nLegal Practicum and Business Practicum are upper-level courses in which students, pairing up to form two-person law firms, hone their legal skills by handling a series of simulated cases. Each case requires mastery of integrated substantive and procedural law, and each firm must successfully participate in oral arguments, motion arguments, mediation, arbitration, negotiation, in-chambers settlement conferences, and a full-day jury trial. Students interview clients, conduct depositions, prepare pleadings and motions, compose memoranda, and draft various transactional documents. The coursework is performed under the supervision of two faculty members, as well as practicing lawyers and judges from the Twin Cities area.\n\nThe school belongs to the Consortium for Innovative Legal Education (CILE), in partnership with California Western School of Law, New England School of Law, and South Texas College of Law. CILE is the only program of its kind in the United States, offering students an opportunity to participate in programs and classes at any of the other three law schools.\n\nThrough CILE, opportunities to study abroad are available in summer and semester programs. Summer programs are offered at the University of Edinburgh, Charles University in the Czech Republic, the University of Malta, and the National University of Ireland, Galway, while semester programs are offered at Leiden University in the Netherlands and the University of Aarhus in Denmark.\n\nThe Intellectual Property Institute advances the school's IP program, which features a curriculum focused on patent, trademark, and copyright law. The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office chose William Mitchell as one of six law schools to participate in its Law School Clinical Certification Program. Students are allowed to practice before the agency under the direction of a faculty supervisor.\n\nThe National Security Forum examines and debates the balance between safety and liberty in America. The Forum has hosted events and seminars featuring current and former officials from the Department of Justice, Department of State, the National Security Council, the Central Intelligence Agency, and the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Notable judges, professors, and journalists have also contributed to the Forum.\n\nThe Rosalie Wahl Legal Practice Center directs William Mitchell's clinic, externship, and skills programs. The clinical programs are designed to offer hands-on experience in practicing law, as well as convey the importance of public service. They were established in 1973, one of the first at an American law school.\n\nThe Tobacco Law Center works to improve tobacco control laws and policies at local, national, and international levels. Through research, policy development and analysis, technical assistance and consulting, the center aims to help lawmakers, nonprofit organizations, advocates, and health professionals address tobacco-related legal issues.\n\nThe Center for Elder Justice & Policy provides advocacy groups with resources, technology, and information to help seniors and their families. The Center also supports William Mitchell's elder law curriculum.\n\nThe Center for Negotiation & Justice is a collaboration between experienced negotiation practitioners and leading scholars in conflict and dispute resolution. Its mission is to explore, develop, and advance the connection between principled negotiation and social justice.\n\nWMCL has more than 12,000 alumni, representing all fifty states and twenty foreign countries. Alumni are active in the private sector, with partners in all of Minnesota's—and some of the country's—largest law firms. Alumni also have a significant presence in the public sector. More than one hundred current members of the Minnesota judiciary have graduated from William Mitchell.\n\nDespite the school's modest beginnings, it has produced many distinguished attorneys, judges, and civic leaders. William Mitchell's most famous alumnus/a is Warren E. Burger, the fifteenth Chief Justice of the United States.\n\nOther notable William Mitchell graduates include:\n"}
{"id": "2010228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010228", "title": "Duncan Campbell", "text": "Duncan Campbell\n\nDuncan Campbell may refer to:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2010230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010230", "title": "Janet Museveni", "text": "Janet Museveni\n\nJanet Kainembabazi Museveni (\"née\" Kataaha, born June 24, 1948) is a Ugandan politician who has been the First Lady of Uganda since 1986. She is married to President Yoweri Museveni, with whom she has four children. She has been Cabinet Minister of Education and Sports in the Ugandan Cabinet, since 6 June 2016. She previously served as Minister for Karamoja Affairs in the Cabinet of Uganda from 27 May 2011 until 6 June 2016. She also served as the elected Member of Parliament representing Ruhaama County in Ntungamo District, between 2011 and 2016. She published her autobiography, \"My Life's Journey\", in 2011. \n\nJanet Kainembabazi Kataaha was born in Bwongyera village in Kajara county, Ntungamo District, Western Uganda to Mr. and Mrs. Edward Kataaha. She attended Kyamate Primary School, and Bweranyangi Girls' Senior Secondary School.\n\nJanet Museveni went into exile in 1971, when Idi Amin toppled the Milton Obote regime in a military coup. She married Yoweri Museveni in August 1973. When Idi Amin's regime fell from power in April 1979, she moved back to Uganda from Tanzania where she had been living in exile with her husband.\n\nIn February 1981 when Yoweri Museveni launched his guerrilla war against the government of President Obote, Janet Museveni and her children re-located to Nairobi, Kenya, where they lived with family friends until 1983. In 1983, they moved to Gothenburg, Sweden, and stayed there until May 1986, four months after Yoweri Museveni's National Resistance Army had seized power in Kampala.\n\nJanet Museveni founded the Uganda Women's Effort to Save Orphans (UWESO), a private relief agency in late 1986, which she said was shaped by her experience as a refugee. She became involved with the HIV/AIDS campaigns in Uganda in the 1990s, forging ties with radical pastor Martin Ssempa for abstinence-only sex education in Uganda.\n\nIn November 2005, she announced that she would seek the parliamentary seat of Ruhaama county in the February 2006 general elections. She contested the seat against the candidate for the Forum for Democratic Change, Augustine Ruzindana, and won overwhelmingly. She was re-elected in March 2011 to another five-year term.\n\nOn 16 February 2009, Janet Museveni was appointed State Minister for Karamoja Affairs, by her husband, President Yoweri Museveni.\n\nOn 27 May 2011, she was elevated to Minister for Karamoja Affairs, complete with a State Minister for Karamoja Affairs.\n\nOn 6 June 2016, after her husband's re-election as President, she was appointed Minister of Education and Sports.\n\nThe four children of Janet and Yoweri Museveni are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2010231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010231", "title": "Judson Scott", "text": "Judson Scott\n\nJudson Earney Scott (born July 15, 1952) is an American stage, film and television actor. He has appeared in a number of science fiction productions, especially within the \"Star Trek\" franchise, as well as \"V\" and three episodes of \"The X-Files.\"\n\nScott was born in Azusa, California and attended Carl Sandberg Jr. High and Glendora High Schools. He then went to California State University, Fullerton, received a B.A. in Theatre Arts, and trained at the Actor's Studio in Los Angeles. At the end of the school year in college, Scott entered the American College Theater Festival and won the Irene Ryan Award for Best Actor in the Western United States. Scott was then offered a scholarship to Yale School of Drama, but instead attended the Juilliard School in New York City, where he again graduated with a B.A. in Theater Arts.\n\nIn 1973, Scott starred with Al Pacino on Broadway in Shakespeare's \"Richard III\". His first film role was in \"Every Which Way But Loose\" (1978), in which he played a biker. His other films include \"I, the Jury\" (1982) and \"Escape\" (1990).\n\nScott starred in the short-lived 1982 science fiction television series \"The Phoenix\". His other television roles include Lt. James in seven episodes of \"V\", and as Sacha Malenkov on \"The Colbys\". He also portrayed Peter Harrell on \"General Hospital\" in 1984–85.\n\nOther guest appearances include \"\" (as Ernst Graff in \"The Legacy\") \"Voyagers!\", \"The Dukes of Hazzard\", \"The A-Team\", \"Babylon 5\" (as \"Knight One\" in \"And the Sky Full of Stars\", 1994), \"Charmed\" (as \"Necron\" in episodes \"A Witches Tale\" 1 & 2), \"The Adventures of Brisco County Jr.\" (Episode: No Man's Land. As outlaw brother Gill Swill), \"The X-Files\" and \"The Greatest American Hero\" (as Dak Hampton in the episode \"Rock 'n' Roll\"). He also made three appearances on \"Matt Houston\" as a Navajo shaman turned assassin.\n\nIn the 1982 film \"\", Scott played Joachim, chief henchman of Khan Noonien Singh. Despite having many lines of dialogue, Scott's name does not appear in the credits. According to \"TV Guide\", Scott's agent was in negotiations with Paramount to get his name high billing in the movie, but the tactic backfired and somehow Scott wound up with no credit at all. He played opposite Ricardo Montalbán, which resulted in a friendship that lasted until Montalbán's death in January 2009. When Montalbán received a lifetime achievement award in 2003, Scott was the presenter.\n\nScott's next role in the \"Star Trek\" franchise was Sobi, a central character in \"\", a first-season episode of \"\". In this episode Scott played opposite Merritt Butrick, who played Admiral Kirk's son in \"Star Trek II\".\n\nScott also played a Romulan in the fourth-season \"\" episode \"\".\n\nScott still makes appearances at science fiction conventions and has his own fan club composed mostly of \"Star Trek\" fans.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2010232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010232", "title": "Vinnie Vincent Invasion", "text": "Vinnie Vincent Invasion\n\nVinnie Vincent Invasion was an American glam metal band, formed in 1984 by former Kiss guitarist Vinnie Vincent.\n\nForming the band in 1984, Vinnie Vincent recruited bassist Dana Strum, who had served as a talent scout in L.A., recruiting band members for the likes of Ozzy Osbourne. Strum had found both Jake E. Lee and the late Randy Rhoads for Ozzy Osbourne, so when Paul Stanley had contacted Osbourne to inquire about where he found the guitarists, he was given Strum's name. Unable to find anyone KISS considered to be on Vincent's level, Strum decided to find Vincent himself in hopes of working together. Bobby Rock came on board as the drummer. With the nucleus of the band completed, the band searched for a lead vocalist.\n\nFormer Journey singer Robert Fleischman provided vocals on Vinnie Vincent Invasion's self-titled debut album. The record included primarily the style of glam metal, with much of it re-worked versions of demos Vincent recorded in 1982 with former New England members Hirsch Gardner, Gary Shea, and Jimmy Waldo under the band name Warrior, with Vincent essentially replacing John Fannon as guitarist and vocalist. Warrior disbanded when Vincent was selected to be a member of KISS.\n\nFleischman exited the band during a contract dispute and a video was produced for the song \"Boyz Are Gonna Rock\" with new vocalist Mark Slaughter lipsyncing over Fleischman's vocal track. With Slaughter now on board, the band released their second album, \"All Systems Go\" in May 1988. The album featured one of the group's best-known hits, \"Ashes to Ashes,\" and \"Love Kills,\" which appeared on the \"\" soundtrack.\n\nLater in 1988, the band was released from their contract with Chrysalis Records. Having grown annoyed with what they perceived to be Vincent's domination of the project, Slaughter and Strum left to form the band Slaughter, which would go on to have success. Bobby Rock has played as a touring drummer for Slaughter, but was not in the initial line-up. After Vinnie Vincent Invasion broke up, he briefly joined Nitro, later Nelson, and then went on to play as a session musician with Gary Hoey and other bands. Subsequent to the band's release from their Chrysalis contract and the resultant split of Slaughter and Strum to form Slaughter, Vincent reunited with original Vinnie Vincent Invasion vocalist Robert Fleischman and recorded the unreleased album \"Pyro Messiah\" (aka Guitars From Hell). Andre LaBelle, (drummer from 1989 to 1992), along with Fleischman, formed a new band \"The Sky\" in 2011.\n\nA tribute album entitled \"KISS MY ANKH: A Tribute To Vinnie Vincent\" was released by SplitScreen Entertainment on August 27, 2008. The album consists of new recordings of songs from Vincent's careers with KISS and Vinnie Vincent Invasion. Featured artists include Steve Brown of Trixter, Troy Patrick Farrell of White Lion, T.J. Racer of Nitro, Sheldon Tarsha of Adler's Appetite, Chris Caffery of Savatage and Trans-Siberian Orchestra, Ryan Roxie of Alice Cooper, and rock and roll comic C.C. Banana, who performs a parody of the KISS song \"Unholy\" (rewritten as a roast of Danger Danger vocalist Ted Poley).\n\n"}
{"id": "2010233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010233", "title": "Washington, Mississippi", "text": "Washington, Mississippi\n\nWashington is an unincorporated community in Adams County, Mississippi, United States. The community is close to Natchez. Located along the lower Mississippi River, it was the second and longest-serving (from 1802 until 1817) capital of the Mississippi Territory.\n\nThis area along the Mississippi River had long been inhabited by indigenous peoples. At the time of European encounter, the Natchez people controlled much of the area. They were descendants of the earlier Mississippian culture that had built earthwork mounds.\n\nEuropean Americans, settling the area after the American Revolutionary War, named the town for George Washington. Some of the original settlers of the area were Colonel Andrew Ellicott, Joseph Calvit and John Foster. Washington became the second territorial capital, when the seat of the Mississippi Territory's legislature was moved from Natchez to Washington on February 1, 1802.\n\nThe Mississippi statehood convention of 1817 met in Washington at the Methodist Meeting House (which was purchased by Jefferson College in 1830). After Mississippi was admitted to the union in 1817, the legislature met once in Washington, and afterward in Natchez. The capital was officially moved to Jackson in 1822, in keeping with the Act passed by the Assembly on November 28, 1821, which chose to have a more central location for better accessibility to more residents.\n\nFort Dearborn, located at Washington, was for a time the largest military installation then extant in the United States, with more than 2,000 soldiers stationed there, including such notables as Brigadier General Leonard Covington and future General Winfield Scott. It was established in 1802 to protect the capital of the Mississippi Territory.\n\nWashington is the location of Jefferson College, now known as Historic Jefferson College. It is operated as a state historic park and museum by the Mississippi Department of Archives and History. The college was created by an act of the first General Assembly of the Mississippi Territory in 1802 and was named in honor of Thomas Jefferson, then-president of the United States. Although chartered in 1802, it did not open as a school until 1811. Operated as a boys' academy, it continued in this capacity (but for a few brief, temporary closures, due to war, fire, remodeling and the like) for the next 153 years. It closed its doors for good in 1964. Jefferson College operated mostly as an all-male, college-preparatory academy. For a period it operated as Jefferson Military College, a military-style boarding school for high-school boys.\n\nJefferson Davis attended Jefferson College as a 10-year-old boy in 1818, when it had the status of a boys' academy. John James Audubon was a teacher there from 1822 to 1823.\n\nElizabeth Female Academy, considered to be the first women's college in the state, was established at Washington in 1818. For most of its history, it was a degree-conferring college; it closed in 1845.\n\nClear Creek Baptist Church, erected in 1825 and one of the oldest churches in Mississippi, is located in Washington. In 1836 it was the site of a meeting of the Mississippi Baptist Convention, which was reorganized under President Ashley Vaughn of Natchez. The convention, or association, contained 122 churches, 56 clergy, and 4287 members. The congregations would have reflected the majority-black population of the area, where most workers on the cotton plantations were slaves.\n\nThe town also has Washington Methodist Church. These were the two prominent denominations at the time of settlement. Both recruited slaves and accepted blacks as preachers in many locations. Before the American Civil War, both the national Baptist Association and Methodist Church split over the issue of slavery, and southern congregations established separate organizations.\n\nIn 1879, the Jesse James gang robbed two stores in Washington and in Fayette in Jefferson County, Mississippi. The gang absconded with $2,000 cash in the second robbery and took shelter in abandoned cabins on the Kemp Plantation south of St. Joseph, Louisiana. A posse attacked and killed two of the outlaws but failed to capture the entire gang. Jesse James would live another three years until his demise in St. Joseph in northwestern Missouri.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2010244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010244", "title": "Pannonian Rusyns", "text": "Pannonian Rusyns\n\nRusyns in Pannonia, or simply Rusyns, or Ruthenians (Rusyn: Руснаци or Русини, ), are a regional minority subgroup of the Rusyns, an Eastern Slavic peoples. They are located in the Central European region of Pannonia, which today covers almost all of Hungary, the southern-most parts of Slovakia, northeast Croatia, a tiny sliver portion of northeast Slovenia, and the northern-most part of Serbia (Vojvodina).\n\nThey are also considered to be related to the northern Carpathian Rusyns (Carpathian Ruthenians) who live in Carpathian Ruthenia (mostly in Ukraine and Slovakia, but also in Poland, Romania, Czech Republic and Hungary).\n\nRusyns in Pannonia mostly live in the autonomous province of Vojvodina in Serbia. There are 14,246 declared ethnic Rusyns in Serbia (2011 census). The village of Ruski Krstur in the Kula municipality is the cultural centre of the Pannonian Rusyns. There is a considerable concentration of Rusyns in Novi Sad, where in 1820 the construction of St. Peter and Paul Greek Catholic parish church started and was subsequently completed in 1834/1837. Other villages with a Rusyn majority include Kucura in the Vrbas municipality, and Bikić Do in the Šid municipality. There are Pannonian Rusyn communities in Slavonia (Croatia), forming a majority in the village of Petrovci, Bogdanovci municipality, in Vukovar-Srijem county.\n\nThe population of Banat and Bačka was decimated in the Ottoman wars. Rusyns emigrated to today's Banat and Bačka regions alongside Germans, Hungarians and Slovaks from a region that, in modern times, comprises parts of eastern Slovakia and northwestern Hungary. This was part of an intensive colonization by the Austrian Empire of the region's rich, arable land, aimed at increasing state revenue through taxes.\n\nThe census of Kula municipality from 1746 shows for the first time three Rusyns — Janko and Petro Homa and Janko Makovicki.\n\nThe official date of Rusyn settlement in Vojvodina is January 17, 1751 when the administrator of Bačka Franc Josip de Redl signed a contract with Mihajlo Munkači from the village of Červenovo, in the county of Bereg, to bring 200 Rusyn families of Greek-Catholic rite from the upper Hungarian districts known as the \"Upper-Land\" (Горнїца) to Kerestur. Kerestur was a Serbian settlement mentioned 1741 as ruined and abandoned, as the settlers had moved to Čelarevo. The same administrator signed another contract on May 15, 1763 with Petro Kiš from Kerestur to bring 150 Rusyn families of Greek Catholic rite from the same areas in the \"Upper-Land\" to Kocur.\n\nAs the population grew and arable land given to settlers by contract was limited, many families from Kerestur and Kocur decided to migrate to the town of Novi Sad in 1766 and 1767. Later, Rusyns settled in Šid and Vajska, and in the early 19th century in Vukovar and Ilok, now in modern-day Croatia. In Petrovci, also Croatia, Rusyns started settlement in 1833, and later in Bačinci in 1834.\n\nThe census from 1767 for the whole Bač-Bodroš county (which then was part of Habsburg Monarchy and today comprises Bačka region in Serbia and Hungary) shows about 2.000 Rusyns. The census from 1991 in the same area shows about 25.000 Rusyns. Currently, the number of Panonian Rusyns declines and is estimated to be about 15.000. The main reason for this is the increased number of Rusyns who decided to move to Canada.\n\nRusyns are officially recognized as an autochthonous national minority in Croatia and, as such, they elect a special representative to the Croatian Parliament, shared with members of eleven other national minorities.\n\nPannonian Rusyns consider their Rusyn variety to be a distinct language.\n\nRusyn is one of the six official languages of provincial administration in Vojvodina, while in Croatia it is officially used in two settlements.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2010249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010249", "title": "Vračar plateau", "text": "Vračar plateau\n\nVračarski Plato or Vračar plateau is a plateau in Vračar, Belgrade with an absolute height of 134 meters above sea level.\n\nThe dominant position in Belgrade's cityscape made the plateau a natural location for the first meteorological observatory in Serbia, Belgrade Meteorological Station, built in 1891.\n\nNowadays, this tourist attraction houses the Temple of Saint Sava and \"Karađorđev park\" with the monument of Karađorđe Petrović, visible from almost all approaches to the city.\n\n"}
{"id": "2010256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010256", "title": "Athletics at the 1908 Summer Olympics – Men's 100 metres", "text": "Athletics at the 1908 Summer Olympics – Men's 100 metres\n\nThe men's 100 metres was the shortest of the sprint races at the 1908 Summer Olympics in London. The competition was held over the course of three days. The first round was held on 20 July, the semifinals on 21 July, and the final on 22 July. NOCs could enter up to 12 athletes.\n\nThese were the standing world and Olympic records (in seconds) prior to the 1908 Summer Olympics.\n\n\"(*)\" unofficial\n\nJames Rector (in the 15th heat and the third semi-final) and Reggie Walker (in the first semi-final and final) both equalized the standing Olympic record. Reggie Walker's actual time in the first semi-final was 10.7, but was rounded up to the nearest fifth in accordance with rules in force at the time, so his time was given as 10.\n\nTimes were kept for the winning runner in each heat only. They were measured to the closest second. The fastest runner advanced to the second round. The competition began at 3 p.m. on 20 July, the seventh day of the Games. A break was taken after the first nine heats to allow for four heats of the 800 metres to be run at 3:30 p.m., with the final eight heats of the 100 metres commencing at 4 p.m.\n\nDuffy won this heat by three yards.\n\nGeorge was ahead of Guttormsen by three yards when he finished.\n\nCartmell crossed the finish line two yards ahead of Malfait.\n\nWalker was four yards ahead of the field when he finished. Records do not indicate which of the final two runners took which place.\n\nHarmer pulled up lame. Cloughen won by five yards.\n\nMay won by about three yards.\n\nDuncan won by a yard.\n\nStevens beat world record holder Lindberg by inches.\n\nMorton won by about three yards.\n\nFischer pulled up lame. Kerr won by three yards.\n\nPhillips pulled up lame, allowing Hamilton to win by about three yards.\n\nHuff was only about a yard ahead of Pankhurst when he finished.\n\nRobertson won by about three yards.\n\nSherman's lead of four yards at the finish was one of the larger leads in the first round.\n\nRector's Olympic record-tying time gave him a relatively easy victory in the first round.\n\nIn one of the slowest of the first round heads, Stark won by about two yards.\n\nRoche won by about two yards.\n\nThe fastest runner in each semifinal advanced to the final. The semifinals were begun at 3:35 p.m. on 21 July.\n\nCloughen withdrew to prepare for the 200m heats. Walker took the lead after about 50 metres and crossed the line about a yard in front of May to become the second sprinter to tie the Olympic record at the London Games. His actual time was 10.7, rounded up to the nearest fifth, in accordance with rules in force at the time; therefore, his time was given as 10.\n\nHamilton withdrew to prepare for the 200m heats. Kerr had little difficulty winning this heat, leading by three yards at the finish.\n\nRector again won easily, tying the Olympic record for the second time.\n\nCartmell and Robertson ran a tight race, with Cartmell winning by about a foot.\n\nThe final race of the 100 metres began at 4:15 p.m. on 22 July. With Walker and Rector having already tied the Olympic record before the final, it was widely expected that the final race of the 100 metres would be an exciting match between those two runners. Walker got off to a quick lead, but Rector caught him about midway through the race and passed him. Walker responded with a great effort, pulling level with Rector. The two ran side-by-side for about six yards before Walker finally pulled ahead to win by half a yard. Rector finished six inches ahead of Kerr, who finished two yards ahead of Cartmell for third place.\n\n"}
{"id": "2010260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010260", "title": "John D. Hertz", "text": "John D. Hertz\n\nJohn Daniel Hertz, Sr. (April 10, 1879October 8, 1961) was an American businessman, thoroughbred racehorse owner and breeder, and philanthropist.\n\nBorn Schandor Herz to a Jewish family in Szklabinya, Austria-Hungary (today Sklabiňa, a village in modern-day Martin, Slovakia). His family emigrated to Chicago when he was five.\n\nAs a young man, Hertz Jr. was an amateur boxer, fighting under the name \"Dan Donnelly.\" He won amateur championships at the Chicago Athletic Association and eventually began to box under his own name. He lived at 880 Fifth Avenue in New York City.\n\nHertz had extensive and complex business interests, mainly in the transport sector.\n\nHertz's first job was selling newspapers, and eventually he became a reporter for the \"Chicago Morning News\". When the paper, then called the \"Chicago Record\", merged with another paper, he lost his job. Although he couldn't drive, in 1904 he found a job selling cars at the suggestion of a friend. Because of the number of trade-ins, he conceived a cab company with low prices so the common man could afford to use them. In 1907, he had a fleet of seven used cars employed as cabs.\n\nHe founded the Yellow Cab Company in Chicago in 1915, which offered taxicab service at a modest price. The distinctive yellow cabs became popular and were quickly franchised throughout the United States. He then founded the Chicago Motor Coach Company in 1917 to operate bus transport services in Chicago and the Yellow Cab Manufacturing Company in 1920 to manufactured taxicabs for sale. In 1923, he founded the Yellow Coach Manufacturing Company to manufacture coaches and later cars. In 1924, he acquired a rental car business, renaming it Hertz Drive-Ur-Self Corporation.\n\nCompetition between the Yellow Cab Company and Checker Taxi in Chicago was fierce and frequently violent with a number of shootings and deaths.\n\nBy 1925, the Yellow Cab Company was owned by the \"Chicago Yellow Cab Company,\" which in turn was owned by Hertz, Parmelee and some other investors. In that year he established The Omnibus Corporation to control both the Chicago Motor Coach Company and the Fifth Avenue Coach Company in New York.\n\nIn 1925, Hertz held these positions:\n\nIn 1926, he sold a majority share in Yellow Cab Manufacturing Company together with its subsidiaries, Yellow Coach Manufacturing Company and \"Hertz Drive-Ur-Self,\" to General Motors. With the sale, Hertz joined GM's board of directors.\n\nHe then sold his remaining interest in the Yellow Cab Company in 1929 following the firebombing of his stables, where 11 horses were killed.\n\nIn 1933, Robert Lehman sold Hertz a minority interest in Lehman Brothers investment bank in New York City and he remained a member of the firm until his death. In 1938, Hertz was prepared to buy Eastern Air Lines from General Motors but the airline's General Manager, Eddie Rickenbacker, was able to raise sufficient financing to acquire Eastern before Hertz could exercise his option. In 1943, he sold his remaining financial interest in Yellow Coach Manufacturing Company to General Motors.\n\nUsing The Omnibus Corporation he re-purchased the car rental business from General Motors in 1953. The Omnibus Corporation then divested itself of its public transport interests, changed its name to The Hertz Corporation and floated on the New York Stock Exchange the following year.\n\nIn 1903, he married Francis (Fannie) Kesner of Chicago with whom he had three children: Leona Jane, John Jr., and Helen. His son was born Leonard J. Hertz and changed his name at the age of seventeen to John D. Hertz, Jr. in honor of his father; John Jr. later became an advertising executive and was briefly married (1942–44) to film star Myrna Loy.\n\nJohn and Fannie Hertz were major figures in Thoroughbred horse racing. They owned a horse farm at Trout Valley near Cary, Illinois, another known as Amarillo Ranch in Woodland Hills, California. Stoner Creek Stud near Paris, Kentucky, became their most important breeding and training center. Raced in the name of Fannie Hertz, among her top horses were the 1928 Kentucky Derby winner and American Horse of the Year, Reigh Count, who sired Count Fleet, winner of the United States Triple Crown of Thoroughbred Racing in 1943. Both horses were inducted in the National Museum of Racing and Hall of Fame.\n\nDuring the Cold War era, Hertz established the Fannie and John Hertz Foundation with the purpose of supporting bright young minds in the applied sciences. Friend Edward Teller urged Hertz to orient his foundation to fund higher education. The Hertz Foundation Fellowship program today is the nation's most selective; typically more than 800 applicants vie for 10-12 Fellowships, which provide full tuition and a generous stipend at top U.S. research universities. For his significant contribution to the security of the U.S., Hertz received the highest civilian award given by the Department of Defense in 1958.\n\nIn 1924, Hertz fronted the city of Chicago $34,000 to install the city's first traffic lights, on Michigan Avenue.\n\nHertz died on October 8, 1961. His wife died two years later. They were originally buried together in the Rosehill Cemetery (Chicago, Illinois). Their remains are now interred at Woodlawn Cemetery in the Bronx, New York City.\n"}
{"id": "2010262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010262", "title": "Francis Mackenzie", "text": "Francis Mackenzie\n\nFrancis Mackenzie, was a Scottish member of the Plymouth Brethren Nazarene group, who travelled to Belgrade to start work for the British and Foreign Bible Society to foster religious observance among the Serbian people. He stayed in Belgrade from 1876 till 1895.\n\nHe settled there when the Turks left, as did many Austrians, Germans, Czechs, and Italians. He was a prominent figure in Belgrade society and a friend of many Serbian politicians including Čedomilj Mijatović, who was the Serbian Foreign Minister. Mackenzie became very wealthy and influential and correctly predicted that Belgrade's city limits would spread eastwards. In 1879, he bought a large piece of agricultural and swampy land named “Simić’s Majur” from the son of president/chairman of Serbian Parliament-Council Stojan Simić for 7500 Dukats (gold coins). He parceled it out into lots for selling and sold them much later when out of the money he earned, he built a large Peace Hall (\"Sala Mira\") which was renowned for political events. He was also known for policies such as not allowing restaurants on his land and forbidding smoking in all public places, which were generally disliked and eventually failed.\n\nMackenzie contributed around eight thousand square meters of his land for the construction of the Temple of Saint Sava. His and the names of his heirs were inscribed in the list of Great Benefactors, right after the members of the royal family and senior church dignitaries.\n\nA street in Vračar was named after him: Francis Mackenzie Street ( or ).\n\n"}
{"id": "2010264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010264", "title": "Maclura tricuspidata", "text": "Maclura tricuspidata\n\nMaclura tricuspidata is a tree native to East Asia, occasionally grown for its fruit, somewhat similar to that of the related mulberry (\"Morus\" spp.). It is also known by common names including cudrang, mandarin melon berry, silkworm thorn, zhe or che (), and Chinese mulberry (but not to be confused with \"Morus australis\" also known by that name). It grows up to 6 m high.\n\nThe Tanzhe Temple west of Beijing, China is named for this tree.\n\nFossils similar to \"Maclura tricuspidata\" have been collected from the Eocene of France, Miocene of Bulgaria, Pliocene of China and Quaternary of Japan.\n\n"}
{"id": "2010267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010267", "title": "Daniel Read Anthony Jr.", "text": "Daniel Read Anthony Jr.\n\nDaniel Read Anthony Jr. (August 22, 1870 – August 4, 1931) was an American Republican politician and a nephew of suffragist and political leader Susan B. Anthony.\n\nHe is the son of newspaper publisher Daniel Read Anthony. He was born in Leavenworth, Kansas, on August 22, 1870; attended the public schools as well as the Michigan Military Academy at Orchard Lake, Michigan; enrolled at the University of Michigan at Ann Arbor; studied law; was admitted to the bar, but did not practice extensively; engaged in newspaper work; appointed postmaster of Leavenworth, Kansas, on June 22, 1898, and served until June 30, 1902, when a successor was appointed; Mayor of Leavenworth, 1903–1905; became manager and editor of the Leavenworth Times in 1904.\n\nHe was elected as a Republican to House of Representatives of the 60th Congress to fill the vacancy caused by the resignation from body of Charles Curtis—who was elevated to the Senate; Anthony was re-elected in this capacity to the nine succeeding Congresses and served in the House from May 23, 1907 to March 3, 1929; well known for co-introducing along with Senator Curtis in December 1923 the first rendition of the proposed Equal Rights Amendment to the United States Constitution; Chairman, Committee on Appropriations in the House during the 70th Congress; was not a candidate for renomination in 1928; resumed his former business pursuits; died in Leavenworth on August 4, 1931; interment in Mount Muncie Cemetery.\n"}
{"id": "2010274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010274", "title": "Chinese mulberry", "text": "Chinese mulberry\n\nChinese mulberry is a common name for several trees and may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2010280", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010280", "title": "Vision therapy", "text": "Vision therapy\n\nVision therapy (VT) is an umbrella term for a variety of treatments based around eye exercises. The treatments aim to treat convergence insufficiency – for which there is supporting evidence – and a range of neurological, educational and spatial difficulties – uses which are not supported by good evidence.\n\nVision therapy can be prescribed when a comprehensive eye examination indicates that it is an appropriate treatment option. The specific program of therapy is based on the results of standardized tests and the person's signs and symptoms. Programs typically involve eye exercises and the use of lenses, prisms, filters, occluders, specialized instruments, and computer programs. The course of therapy may last weeks to several years, with intermittent monitoring by the eye doctor.\n\nVision therapy is a broad concept that encompasses a wide range of treatment types. These include those aimed at convergence insufficiency – where it is often termed \"vergence therapy\" or \"orthoptic therapy\" – and at a variety of neurological, educational and spatial difficulties.\n\nThere exist a few different broad classifications of vision treatment philosophies, which have been traditionally divided between Optometrists, Ophthalmologists, and practitioners of alternative medicine:\n\n\n\nOrthoptics emphasises the diagnosis and non-surgical management of strabismus (wandering eye), amblyopia (lazy eye) and eye movement disorders. Evidence to support its use in amblyopia is unclear as of 2011.\n\nMuch of the practice of orthoptists concerns refraction and muscular eye control. Orthoptists are trained professionals who specialize in orthoptic treatment. With specific training, in some countries orthoptists may be involved in monitoring of some forms of eye disease, such as glaucoma, cataract screening and diabetic retinopathy \n\nBehavioral VT aims to treat problems including difficulties of visual attention and concentration, which behavioral optometrists classify as visual information processing weaknesses. These manifest themselves as an inability to sustain focus or to shift focus from one area of space to another. Some practitioners assert that poor eye tracking may impact reading skills, and suggest that vision training may improve some of the visual skills helpful for reading.\n\nBehavioral Vision Therapy is practiced primarily by optometrists who specialize in the area. Historically, there has been a difference in philosophy among optometry and medicine regarding the efficacy and relevance of vision therapy: Major organizations, including the International Orthoptic Association and the American Academy of Ophthalmology have concluded that there is no validity for clinically significant improvements in vision with Behavioral Vision Therapy, and therefore do not practice it. However, major optometric organizations, including the American Optometric Association, the American Academy of Optometry, the College of Optometrists in Vision Development, and the Optometric Extension Program, support the assertion that non-strabismic visual therapy does address underlying visual problems which are claimed to affect learning potential. These optometric organizations are careful to distinguish, though, that vision therapy does not directly treat learning disorders.\n\nA more recent (2005) review concluded less positively that: \"\"Less robust, but believable, evidence indicates visual training may be useful in developing fine stereoscopic skills and improving visual field remnants after brain damage. As yet there is no clear scientific evidence published in the mainstream literature supporting the use of eye exercises in the remainder of the areas reviewed, and their use therefore remains controversial.\"\"\n\nIn 2006, noted neurologist Oliver Sacks published a case study about \"Stereo Sue\", a woman who had regained her stereo vision, absent for 48 years, after undergoing vision therapy. The article was published in \"The New Yorker\" magazine, which is fact-checked but not peer-reviewed, very few details were given of the exact therapies used and the article discussed only one case of stereopsis recovery. However, the woman described by Sacks, Susan Barry, a neurobiology professor at Mt. Holyoke College, subsequently published a book, \"Fixing My Gaze.\" The book discusses multiple case histories and details the therapy procedures and the science underlying them.\n\nA systematic review of the literature on the effects of vision therapy on visual field defects published in 2007 concluded that it was unclear to what extent patients benefited from vision restoration therapy (VRT) as \"no study has given a satisfactory answer.\" The authors concluded that \"scanning compensatory therapy\" (SCT) seemed to provide a more successful rehabilitation, and simpler training techniques, therefore they recommended SCT until the effects of VRT could be defined.\n\nA 2008 review of the literature concluded that \"there is a continued paucity of controlled trials in the literature to support behavioral optometry approaches. Although there are areas where the available evidence is consistent with claims made by behavioral optometrists ... a large majority of behavioral management approaches are not evidence-based, and thus cannot be advocated.\"\n\nOther than for strabismus (such as intermittent exotropia) and convergence insufficiency, the consensus among \"ophthalmologists\", \"orthoptists\" and \"pediatricians\" is that non-strabismic visual therapy lacks documented evidence of effectiveness. In 1998, the American Academy of Pediatrics, American Academy of Ophthalmology, and American Association for Pediatric Ophthalmology and Strabismus issued a policy statement regarding the use of vision therapy specifically for the treatment of \"learning problems\" and \"dyslexia.\" According to the statement: \"No scientific evidence exists for the efficacy of eye exercises ('vision therapy')... in the remediation of these complex pediatric neurological conditions.\" More recently, in 2004, the American Academy of Ophthalmology released a position statement asserting that there is no evidence that vision therapy retards the progression of \"myopia\", no evidence that it improves visual function in those with \"hyperopia\" or \"astigmatism,\" or that it improves \"vision lost through disease processes.\" This was also supported by the International Orthoptic Association.\n\nThe Joint Statement mentioned above was criticised at the time by Merrill Bowan, a vision therapy enthusiast, for being biased, with the author of a rebuttal concluding \"The AAP/AAO/AAPOS paper contains errors and internal inconsistencies. Through highly selective reference choices, it misrepresents the great body of evidence from the literature that supports a relationship between visual and perceptual problems as they contribute to classroom difficulties.\". The author also states that the Joint Statement presents an unsupported opinion by implication that Optometrists claim that vision therapy cures the learning problem. A similar criticism could be leveled at the 2004 American Academy of Ophthalmology paper which implies that vision therapy is claimed to treat \"vision lost through disease processes\". There is a common theme that critics of vision therapy seem to do by placing vision therapy under the same banner with alternative therapies. By implication, the lack of evidence for the alternative therapies is cited as a lack of evidence for vision therapy. No supporting evidence is given that vision therapy is actually used to treat eye disease or vision lost through disease processes.\n\nSome optometrists take a slightly different view. In 1999 a joint statement by the American Academy of Optometry, the American Optometric Association, the College of Optometrists in Vision Development and Optometric Extension Program Foundation reported: \"Many visual conditions can be treated effectively with spectacles or contact lenses alone; however, some are most effectively treated with vision therapy...Research has demonstrated that vision therapy can be an effective treatment option for \"ocular motility problems, non-strabismic binocular disorders, strabismus, amblyopia, accommodative disorders (and) visual information processing disorders.\"\"\n\nPractitioners in Behavioral optometry (also known as \"functional optometrists\" or \"optometric vision therapists\") practice methods that have been characterized as a complementary alternative medicine practice. A review in 2000 concluded that there were insufficient controlled studies of the approach and a 2008 review concluded that \"a large majority of behavioural management approaches are not evidence-based, and thus cannot be advocated.\"\n\nThe consensus among Ophthalmologists, Orthoptists and Pediatricians is that \"visual training\" in non-strabismic Behavioural Vision therapy lacks documented scientific evidence of effectiveness. Although Ophthalmologists and Orthoptists believe that exercises can improve binocular vision control, they believe it does not purely improve monocular visual acuity such as that in amblyopia (rather, occlusion is the therapy of choice), change a person's refractive error. It is probable that they do not change the accommodative/convergence ratio nor change the amplitude of accommodation to postpone or delay presbyopia. It has been considered that they are unlikely to a person to develop the ability for stereopsis; nonetheless recent experimental investigations into dedicated perceptual learning exercises, inspired by Barry's recovery of stereopsis, have shown some promise.\n\nBehavioral optometry is a branch of optometry that explores how visual function influences a patient's day-to-day activities. Vision therapy is a subset of behavioral optometry. In general, vision therapists attempt to improve vision, and therefore day-to-day well-being, of patients using \"eye exercises,\" prism, and lenses, with more emphasis on the patient's visual function. Among schools of medicine, ophthalmology does not see merit in the procedures surrounding many of behavioral optometry's practices, arguing that there have not been enough studies of high enough merit to warrant practicing of vision therapy.\n\nIn a 2008, vision scientist Brendan Barrett published a review of behavioral optometry at the invitation of the UK College of Optometrists. Barrett wrote that behavioral optometry was not a well-defined field but that it was sometimes said to be an \"extension\" to optometry, taking a holistic approach: practitioners of the therapy use techniques outside mainstream optometry to \"influence the visual process\". Barrett discussed these techniques under ten headings:\n\n\nBarrett noted the lack of published controlled trials of the techniques. He found that there are a few areas where the available evidence suggest that the approach might have some value, namely in the treatment of convergence insufficiency, the use of yoked prisms in neurological patients, and in vision rehabilitation after brain disease or injury—but he found that in the other areas where the techniques have been used, the majority, there is no evidence of their value. In contrast, Steven Novella points out that the only condition that there is good quality scientific evidence for is convergence disorders. This points out a problem that is common with Complementary or integrative medicine, a type of Alternative medicine, is that a promising use for treating a single disorder is applied to a wide range of disorders for which there is no evidence.\n\nThe eye exercises used in vision therapy can generally be divided into two groups; those employed for \"strabismic\" outcomes and those employed for \"non-strabismic\" outcomes, to improve eye health. \nOphthalmologists and orthoptists do not endorse these exercises as having clinically significant validity for improvements in vision. Usually, they see these perceptual-motor activities being in the sphere of either speech therapy or occupational therapy.\n\nSome of the exercises used are\n\nThe eye exercises used in Behavioural Vision Therapy, also known as Developmental Optometry is practiced primarily by Behavioural Optometrists. Behavioral Vision Therapy aims to treat problems including difficulties of visual attention and concentration, which may manifest themselves as an inability to sustain focus or to shift focus from one area of space to another.\n\nSome of the exercises used are:\n\nFusional Amplitude and Relative Fusional Amplitude training\n\nCertain do-it-yourself eye exercises are claimed by some to improve visual acuity by reducing or eliminating refractive errors. Such claims rely mainly on anecdotal evidence, and are not generally endorsed by orthoptists, ophthalmologists or optometrists. Chinese school children always do eye exercises twice per day during school, which are compulsory. They are also part of other forms category's as they are also do-it-yourself exercises although quite a few scientists say that they actually harm the children's eyes\n\nThe German optician Hans-Joachim Haase developed a method to correct an alleged misalignment. His method, called the \"MKH method\", is not recognized as an evidence-based approach.\n\nBehavioral optometry is largely based on concepts which lack plausibility or which contradict mainstream neurology, and most of the research done has been of poor quality. As with chiropractic, there seems to be a spectrum of scientific legitimacy among practitioners: at one extreme there is some weak evidence in support of the idea that myopia may be affected by eye training; at the other extreme are concepts such as \"syntonic phototherapy\" which proposes that differently colored lights can be used to treat a variety of medical conditions.\n\nA review in 2000 concluded that there were insufficient controlled studies of the approach. In 2008 Barrett concluded that \"the continued absence of rigorous scientific evidence to support behavioural management approaches, and the paucity of controlled trials in particular, represents a major challenge to the credibility of the theory and practice of behavioural optometry.\"\n\nBehavioral optometry has been proposed as being of benefit for children with Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder and autism – this proposal is based on the idea that since people with these conditions often have abnormal eye movement, correcting this may address the underlying condition. Evidence supporting this approach is however weak; the American Academy of Pediatrics, the American Academy of Ophthalmology and the American Association for Pediatric Ophthalmology and Strabismus have said that learning disabilities are neither caused nor treatable by visual methods.\n\nBehavioral optometry is considered by some optometrists to have its origins in orthoptic vision therapy. However, Vision therapy is differentiated between strabismic/orthoptic vision therapy (which many Optometrists, Orthoptists and Ophthalmologists practice) and non-strabismic vision therapy. A.M. Skeffington was an American optometrist known to some as \"the father of behavioral optometry\". Skeffington has been credited as co-founding the Optometric Extension Program with E.B. Alexander in 1928.\n\nA review in 2000 concluded that there were insufficient controlled studies of the approach and a 2008 review concluded that \"a large majority of behavioral management approaches are not evidence-based, and thus cannot be advocated.\"\n\nPractitioners of sports vision training claim to be able to enhance the function of a current athlete's vision beyond what is expected in individuals with already healthy visual systems.\n\nAlternative vision therapies include methods that some patients feel subjectively help them. Many optometrists and ophthalmologists are skeptical of the efficacy of these methods and practices, though some have been found to have at least a basis in studied principles to some limited degree (such as syntonics and melanopsin, TBI and tinted lenses, and the adoption of EMDR by the VA Hospital in the USA).\n\nSome physicians are skeptical about the efficacy of \"vision therapy\" stating that it lacks data and is mostly anecdotal. In 2009, the American Academy of Pediatrics along with the American Academy of Ophthalmology \"essentially declared war\" on developmental optometry, as Judith Warner wrote in a New York Times article. Even within the field of optometry the U.K. College of Optometrists noted the \"Continued absence of rigorous scientific evidence to support behavioral management approaches\" in the second college of Optometrists report. The American Academy of Pediatrics is also critical of behavioral optometry. In 2009 it reviewed 35 years of the literature in support of vision therapy and issued a statement — in conjunction with other ophthalmological associations — condemning the therapy and its contention that it could help with learning disabilities. Visual problems, it claimed, are not the basis for learning disabilities. It issued a stern warning about the seductions of treatments that sound convincing but aren’t based on science: \"Ineffective, controversial methods of treatment such as vision therapy may give parents and teachers a false sense of security that a child’s learning difficulties are being addressed, may waste family and/or school resources and may delay proper instruction or remediation.\" The website by the American Association for Pediatric Ophthalmology and Strabismus states: \"Behavioral vision therapy is considered to be scientifically unproven\" and \"There is no evidence that vision therapy delays the progression or leads to correction of myopia.\"\n\nVarious forms of visual therapy have been used for centuries. The concept of vision therapy was introduced in the late nineteenth century for the non-surgical treatment of strabismus. This early and traditional form of vision therapy was the foundation of what is now known as orthoptics.\n\nIn the first half of the twentieth century, orthoptists, working with ophthalmologists, introduced a variety of training techniques mainly designed to improve binocular function. In the second half of the twentieth century, vision therapy began to be used by optometrists and paramedical personnel to treat conditions ranging from uncomfortable vision to poor reading and academic performance. It has also been claimed specifically to improve eyesight, and even to improve athletic performance.\n\nAt the beginning of the twenty-first century, most vision therapy is done by optometrists, while traditional orthoptics continues to be practiced by orthoptists and ophthalmologists. Based on assessments of claims and studies of published data, ophthalmologists claim that, except for near point of convergence exercises, vision therapy lacks documented evidence of effectiveness.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2010282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010282", "title": "Renys", "text": "Renys\n\nR.H. Reny, Inc., doing business as Renys: A Maine Adventure, is a chain of department stores located throughout the state of Maine, and has been in business since 1949. Robert H. Reny opened his first store in Damariscotta, Maine. In 2004, two of his sons began running the chain.\n\nIn \"Fortune Magazine\"'s Small Business column, Renys was cited as an example of a small business doing well in the face of competition from Walmart. Renys management studied the competition and realized the company could have an advantage in clothing. Renys purchases small lots of high quality brands at a discount by buying production overruns, closeouts, irregulars, and factory seconds.\n\nThe company headquarters and distribution center are located in Newcastle. There are 17 retail store locations: Bath, Belfast, Bridgton, Camden, Damariscotta (two stores), Dexter, Ellsworth, Farmington, Gardiner, Madison, Pittsfield, Portland, Saco, Topsham, Wells and Windham.\n\n"}
{"id": "2010284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010284", "title": "Johnette Napolitano", "text": "Johnette Napolitano\n\nJohnette Napolitano (born September 22, 1957, Hollywood, Los Angeles, California) is an American singer, songwriter and bassist best known as the lead vocalist/songwriter and bassist for the alternative rock group Concrete Blonde.\n\nShe has also recorded as a solo artist, with the albums \"Sketchbook\" (2002), \"Sketchbook 2\" (2006), \"Scarred\" (2007), and \"Sketchbook 3\" (2010), and as a member of:\n\nNapolitano is a resident of Joshua Tree, California.\nShe composes music for films and works as a gallery artist, specializing in working with discarded and reclaimed materials. She also takes care of rescue horses.\n\n\nShe has contributed music to many films, including the 2006 Australian film \"Candy\", and \"Suicide Note\" from \"Underworld\". The following films and TV programmes also feature songs performed by Concrete Blonde:\n\nSoundtrack:\n\nComposer:\n\nActress:\n\nIn 1996, Napolitano produced an album by Australian group In Vivo.\n\nNapolitano collaborated with Danny Lohner (Nine Inch Nails, A Perfect Circle, Black Light Burns) on the horror film \"Dead Silence\". The pair had successfully collaborated previously for the films \"Underworld\" and \"Wicker Park\".\n\nNapolitano contributed vocals to an album by John Trudell, and performs backing vocals in \"Struck a Nerve\" by Bad Religion on the \"Recipe For Hate\" album.\n\nNapolitano performed the main vocals on the score of the Australian film \"West\", written and directed by Daniel Krige. She also sang the title song, \"Falling in Love\".\n\nNapolitano also performed the duet \"My Little Problem\" with Paul Westerberg on The Replacements \"All Shook Down\" release.\n\nNapolitano provided vocals on the track \"I Am Where it Takes Me\" by metal band Black Light Burns.\n\nNapolitano is credited as co-writer of the Ashes Divide song \"Too Late\".\n\nNapolitano wrote and sang, with Steve Wynn, the song \"Conspiracy of the Heart\" included in the Steve Wynn's album \"Kerosene Man\" (1990).\n\nJohnette Napolitano joined Marc Moreland and Danny Montgomery to form Pretty & Twisted in 1995. Their self-titled debut, \"Pretty & Twisted\", was produced by Napolitano and released on Warner Brother Records, Inc.\n\nThe track listing for the album was:\n\nNapolitano's solo album \"Scarred\" was released on May 28, 2007, on the label Hybrid Recordings.\n\n\"Scarred\" track list\n"}
{"id": "2010286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010286", "title": "Street Corner Society", "text": "Street Corner Society\n\nStreet Corner Society (originally titled Street Corner Society: The Social Structure of an Italian Slum) is an ethnography written by William Foote Whyte and published in 1943. It was Whyte's first book. It received little attention when it was first published, but upon being reissued in 1955 it became a bestseller as well as a standard college text, and established Whyte's reputation as a pioneer in participant observation.\n\nIn the late 1930s, on a fellowship from Harvard University, Whyte lived in the North End of Boston, which was mostly inhabited by first- and second-generation immigrants from Italy. Whyte, who came from a well-to-do family, considered the neighborhood a slum, and wanted to learn more about its \"lower class\" society. Whyte lived in that district for three and a half years, including 18 months he spent with an Italian family. Through this work, Whyte became a pioneer in participant observation (which he called \"participant observer research\").\n\n\"Street Corner Society\" describes various groups and communities within the district. \"Compaesani\" – people originally from the same Italian town – are one example. The first part of the book contains detailed accounts of how local gangs were formed and organized. Whyte differentiated between \"corner boys\" and \"college boys\": The lives of the \"corner boys\" revolved around particular street corners and the nearby shops. Conversely, the \"college boys\" were more interested in good education and moving up the social ladder.\n\nThe second part of the book describes the relations of social structure, politics, and racketeering in that district. It is also a testament to the importance of WPA jobs at the time.\n\nThe book was first published as \"Street Corner Society: The Social Structure of an Italian Slum\" by the University of Chicago Press in 1943. It received little attention at the time, but when it was republished in 1955 it garnered critical praise and became a bestseller and a standard college text. It has since been translated into at least six different languages and reprinted in many editions.\n\nNot all the reviews have been positive. The book was not popular in the North End, and Whyte's description of the neighborhood as a \"slum\" has been called into question. Former Boston city councilman Frederick C. Langone, who lived in the North End and knew Whyte personally, believed Whyte had mischaracterized the neighborhood:\n\n"}
{"id": "2010289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010289", "title": "Savinac", "text": "Savinac\n\nSavinac () is an urban neighborhood of Belgrade, the capital of Serbia. It is located in Belgrade's municipality of Vračar.\n\nSavinac is located in the western part of the municipality, on the western slopes of the Vračar hill and stretches from the Slavija square to the Vračar plateau and the Temple of Saint Sava. The main streets in the neighborhood are \"Svetog Save\", \"Makenzijeva\" and the \"Boulevard of the Liberation\". Originally, the term stretched west of the boulevard (present Karađorđev Park), but today not many people consider that part of Belgrade as part of Vračar.\n\nThe neighborhood of Savinac almost entirely overlaps the neighborhood of Englezovac. Construction of the neighborhood began in 1880 when a Scottish businessman and Nazarene Francis Mackenzie bought a large piece of land nearby (which eventually became known as Englezovac, Serbian for \"Englishman's place\"), parcelled it out into lots for selling and donated a piece of land to the Serbian Orthodox Church for the construction of the Temple of Saint Sava. \"The Society for the Embellishment of Vračar\" suggested to Belgrade City Council to rename Englezovac to Savinac (Serbian for Sava’s place) on March 31, 1894. They stated that it is \"a shame for the Serbian capital that a whole district is called Englezovac\" and unconceivable that a national shrine (Temple of Saint Sava) lie on foreign property.\n\nIn narrower sense, Savinac is just the triangular part between the streets of \"Svetog Save\" on the east, and the \"Boulevard of the Liberation\", to which term Englezovac didn't apply.\n\nHowever, the large residential and park complex new name of Savinac was gradually dropped from public usage, and the only remainder of that name was the kafana \"Savinac\" which was closed in early 2000s. In the late 1980s, many books and articles on \"Old Belgrade\" became popular again and so the term Englezovac, at this time already unknown to majority of people, resurfaced, but not Savinac. However, just like Savinac, it didn't get the popular usage, and most of Belgraders still refer to this part of the city as Vračar.\n\nApart from \"Savinac\", other famous Belgrade kafanas in the neighborhood included \"Mala Astronomija\" (\"Little Astronomy\"), founded in the 1890s, and \"Orač\" (\"The Plowman\"), opened in 1948. Both were located along the \"Boulevard of the Liberation\" and demolished in 1996, with \"Orač\" being relocated to the \"Makenzijeva\" street in the neighborhood of Čubura.\n\nHistorically, Savinac represented geographical end of Belgrade, opposite to Kalemegdan, on Belgrade's central line Kalemegdan-Trg Republike-Terazije-Beograđanka-Slavija–Savinac, where central line, tram No 1 used to run, in the first half of the 20th century.\n\n"}
{"id": "2010297", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010297", "title": "Grumman F3F", "text": "Grumman F3F\n\nThe Grumman F3F was the last American biplane fighter aircraft delivered to the United States Navy (indeed, the last biplane fighter delivered to any American military air arm), and served between the wars. Designed as an improvement on the single-seat F2F, it entered service in 1936. It was retired from front line squadrons at the end of 1941 before it could serve in World War II, and was first replaced by the Brewster F2A Buffalo. The F3F which inherited the Leroy Grumman-designed retractable main landing gear configuration first used on the Grumman FF served as the basis for a biplane design ultimately developed into the much more successful F4F Wildcat.\n\nThe Navy's experience with the F2F revealed issues with stability and unfavorable spin characteristics, prompting the 15 October 1934 contract for the improved XF3F-1, placed before F2F deliveries began. The contract also required a capability for ground attack, in addition to the design's fighter role. Powered by the same Pratt & Whitney R-1535-72 Twin Wasp Junior engine as the F2F, the fuselage was lengthened and wing area increased over the earlier design. A reduction in wheel diameter allowed greater fuselage streamlining, eliminating the prominent bulge behind the cowling of the F2F.\n\nThe prototype, BuNo. 9727, was delivered and first flown on 20 March 1935 with company test pilot Jimmy Collins making three flights that day. Two days later, six dive-recovery flights took place; on the 10th dive, the aircraft's pullout at 8,000 ft (2,438 m) registered 14 \"g\" on the test equipment. The aircraft broke up in midair, crashing in a cemetery and killing Collins. A second, strengthened prototype was built, but it crashed on 9 May of the same year following the pilot's bailout during an unsuccessful spin recovery. The second prototype was rebuilt in three weeks, flying on 20 June 1935. An order for 54 F3F-1 fighters was placed on 24 August of that year, following the conclusion of the flight test program.\n\nThe first production F3F-1 (BuNo 0211) was delivered on 29 January 1936 to the test group at Naval Air Station Anacostia, with squadron service beginning in March to VF-5B of and VF-6B of . Marine squadron VF-4M received the last six in January 1937.\n\nGrumman, wanting to take advantage of the powerful new 950 hp (708 kW) Wright R-1820 supercharged radial engine, began work on the F3F-2 without a contract; the order for 81 aircraft was not placed until 25 July 1936, two days before the type's first flight. The engine's larger diameter changed the cowling's appearance, making the aircraft look even more like a barrel, though top speed increased to 255 mph (410 km/h) at 12,000 ft (3,658 m).\n\nThe entire F3F-2 production series was delivered in between 1937 and 1938; when deliveries ended, all seven Navy and Marine Corps pursuit squadrons were equipped with Grumman single-seat fighters. Further aerodynamic improvements were made to an F3F-2 (BuNo 1031) based on wind tunnel studies in the NACA Langley 30' x 60' full-scale wind tunnel and became the XF3F-3. It featured a larger-diameter propeller, and a complete revision of the fuselage skinning forward of the aft cabane strut in order to improve aerodynamics and reduce carbon monoxide intrusion. On 21 June 1938, the Navy ordered 27 F3F-3s, as new monoplane fighters like the Brewster F2A and Grumman's own F4F Wildcat were taking longer to develop than had been planned.\n\nWith the introduction of the Brewster F2A-1, the Navy's biplane fighter days were numbered. All F3Fs were withdrawn from squadron service by the end of 1941, though 117 were assigned to naval bases (Mainly NAS Miami and NAS Corpus Christi) and used for training and utility duties until December 1943.\n\nThe G-32 and G-32A two-place aircraft were used by the U.S. Army Air Force as ferry-pilot trainers, under the designation UC-103/UC-103A.\n\nA civilian aerobatic two-seat variant, the G-22A \"Gulfhawk II,\" was constructed in 1936 and flown by Major Alfred \"Al\" Williams (retired), head of Gulf Oil's aviation department.\n\n\"Data from:\" Aerofiles - Grumman \n\n\n\nToday, there are four flying aircraft, three F3F-2 models and the Grumman demonstrator G-32A, all which were restored by Herb Tischler's Texas Airplane Factory in Fort Worth. The restorations took four years and consisted of rebuilding the G-32A from original blueprints with tooling built at the Texas Airplane Factory. The wreckage of three -2 aircraft which had originally crashed in Hawaii were utilized to complete the other restorations.\n\n\nThe F3F was featured as the XFAA-1 \"experimental fighter\" in Warner Bros.'s \"Wings of the Navy\" (1939). The F3F-2 was featured in the 1940 film \"Flight Command\", starring Robert Taylor as a pilot whose work developing instrument landing systems helps his lost squadron return to NAS North Island.\n\nPerhaps the most prominent and popular record of F3Fs is in the 1941 Technicolor film \"Dive Bomber\", also set at NAS North Island. This film extensively used parked F3Fs as background, and one single F3F-2 from Fighting Squadron SIX, (BuNo 0989, 6-F-4) in flight in the last action scene.\n\n"}
{"id": "2010308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010308", "title": "Sopan", "text": "Sopan\n\nSant Sopandeo was a sant of the Varkari and also the younger brother of Dnyaneshwar.\n\nSopan(1277 A.D- 1296 A.D), attained samadhi at Saswad near Pune. He wrote a book, the \"Sopandevi\" based on the Marathi translation of the \"Bhagavad Gita\" along with 50 or so abhangs.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2010309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010309", "title": "Prehistoric reptile", "text": "Prehistoric reptile\n\nThe term prehistoric reptile covers a broad category that is intended to help distinguish the dinosaurs from other prehistoric reptiles. As the dinosaurs, because of their long and successful reign for many millions of years, are almost exclusively dealt with in their own category of prehistoric life.\n\nThe category covers all the non-dinosaurian reptiles which are often erroneously considered to be dinosaurs, such as the seafaring varieties of plesiosaurs and the flying pterosaurs. Also included are ancient crocodiles such as \"Deinosuchus\".\n\nFor information on the synapsids, which were previously known as \"mammal-like reptiles\" (including the well-known \"Dimetrodon\"), which are not part of the clade Sauropsida (with which \"Reptilia\" is generally synonymized), see Synapsid (amniotes related to mammals). For information on the ancestors of reptiles, traditionally classified as labyrinthodont amphibians, see Reptiliomorpha (reptile-like tetrapods).\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2010310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010310", "title": "Martial law in Poland", "text": "Martial law in Poland\n\nMartial law in Poland () refers to the period between 13 December 1981 and 22 July 1983, when the authoritarian communist government of the Polish People's Republic drastically restricted normal life by introducing martial law and a military junta in an attempt to throttle political opposition, in particular the Solidarity Movement. Thousands of opposition activists were imprisoned without charge and as many as 91 killed. Although martial law was lifted in 1983, many of the political prisoners were not released until a general amnesty in 1986.\n\nSince the 1970s, communist Poland was in a deep economic recession. The First Secretary Edward Gierek made large incessant loans from western creditors to achieve a better economic output that instead resulted in a domestic crisis. Basic goods were being heavily rationed which acted as a stimuli for the establishment of a first anti-communist trade union in the Eastern Bloc, known as Solidarity, in 1980. Gierek, who permitted the trade union to appear per the Gdańsk Agreement, was dismissed from his post less than a month later under pressure from the USSR and confined to house arrest. Poland's already somewhat liberal policies concerning the opposition were worrisome for hardliners in the Soviet Union, who feared that the Poles may overthrow communism and ally themselves with the Western Bloc. The Soviets were particularly uneasy as the departure of Eastern Bloc's most populous nation from Comecon would trigger further financial and economic problems that would bring an end to communist rule in Central-Eastern Europe. After a series of strikes and demonstrations by employees of chief industrial regions, Poland was directly heading towards bankruptcy. \n\nThe Military Council of National Salvation was formed by the new First Secretary of the Polish United Workers' Party, General Wojciech Jaruzelski, who was determined to put an end to the demonstrations and crush the opposition by force if necessary. There is speculation whether Jaruzelski instigated martial law to prevent bloodshed if the Soviets and other Warsaw Pact countries were to enter Poland under the mutual assistance treaty, like in the Hungarian Revolution of 1956 and the invasion of Czechoslovakia in 1968. On 13 December 1981, Jaruzelski announced the introduction of martial law in a televised speech addressed to the entire nation. The Polish People's Army, Citizens' Militia (MO), ZOMO special units and tanks rolled onto the streets to scare off demonstrators, begin regular patrols and maintain curfew. Intercity travelling was forbidden unless a permit was granted by the authorities, food shortages intensified and censorship was placed on all media and post. The secret services (SB) wiretapped phones in public booths and state institutions. \n\nOn 16 December, pro-Solidarity miners organized a strike against the declaration of the martial law at the Wujek Coal Mine in the industrial city of Katowice. The ZOMO squads, nicknamed \"Communist Gestapo\" by the opposition, brutally pacified Wujek, which resulted in the deaths of 9 miners. All other demonstrations across Poland were met with armed force of the services, which utilized water cannons, tear gas, batons, truncheons and clubs to disperse crowds and beat protesters. Thousands were detained and some were tortured in state prisons. On 31 August 1982, in the copper-mining town of Lubin, 3 people were mortally wounded by ZOMO. Until the end of the martial law on 22 July 1983, approximately 91 people were killed, though this figure varies and is still debated among historians.\n\nWhen Edward Gierek succeeded Gomułka as the head of state in 1970, he took decisive measures to boost economic growth and develop modern infrastructure. Gierek, a more liberal figure than his predecessor, was determined to make Poland the wealthiest and most economically significant communist country of the Eastern Bloc. However, these ideas prompted resistance from hardline communist leadership as the reform would effectively abandon the fundamental principles of a centrally planned Marxist economy. The grip and emphasis on state-owned enterprises and state-controlled prices or trade was eventually loosened. Small private businesses began to appear and Poland recorded temporary growth in GDP and an improvement in living conditions.\n\nGierek maintained close ties with the United States, which he subsequently used for diplomatic and economic purposes. In order to continue with the reforms, large sums of money were borrowed from creditors in the Western Bloc. These sequential and uninterrupted loans were primarily targeted at establishing heavy industry, mines or manufacturing facilities that would produce goods for export. The projected income from the exports would then be used to pay off the debt. Apart from financing the economic sector, the money was spent on social housing and on expanding road connections, for example the first fully operational highway linking Warsaw with industrial Silesia was opened for traffic in 1976. Furthermore, over 1.8 million plattenbau flats were constructed to house the growing population. Agricultural output rose by nearly 22% between 1971 and 1975, and industrial production by 10.5% annually. Gierek also initiated the construction of Warszawa Centralna, Europe's most modern railway station at the time.\n\nAs expenditures increased and debts accumulated, the West would no longer grant Poland loans. Moreover, the 1973, June 1976 protests and 1979 oil crises affected the fragile economy. Due to previous GDP growth, higher income and expanded industries, the demand for certain goods and consumption surged. New factories and state enterprises required imported fuel, materials and a workforce to operate production lines. Soon, the country started exporting locally-produced stock designated for the Polish populace, thus resulting in widespread shortages. Because the remaining assets were directed at production, exports and debt repayment, the state also reduced imports to minimize expenses. \n\nIn 1976, the communist government introduced ration cards for sugar. Meat, processed food and dairy followed. Confectionery, cocoa, coffee, rice, tobacco and other goods not produced in Poland were so heavily rationed that they were almost permanently unavailable. Due to the constant lack of tobacco, ordinary cigarettes became a form of new currency on the black market. The living standards began to sharply decline; the supply of imported goods was kept to a low minimum and the county was forced to export everything it could, including coal necessary for basic heating and power plants. Power outages were commonplace. By 1980, the debt accounted to over US$23 billion, then almost half of Poland's nominal GDP. \n\nAt the same time, the newly-founded Solidarity movement encouraged farmers to refrain from selling agricultural products (wheat, grain, fruit and others) to the state as a sign of protest. The actual lack of goods on the market and in stores was caused by the fact that production stopped due to the strikes organized by Solidarity. In 1980, the national income fell by 6% compared to previous year, and in 1981 by 12%. The number of exports declined by 4.2%. Mismanagement and wastefulness were abundant. \n\nOn 6 September 1980, Gierek was dismissed from his office, expelled from the Polish United Workers' Party (possibly under the pressure from the Soviet Union) and falsely charged with corruption. A year later, on 10 September 1981, the Soviet authorities informed the Polish government that in connection with the prevailing situation in Poland the USSR would cut oil supply to Poland by 64% and gas by 47%. The import of diesel from the Soviet Union was terminated immediately. This action was intended to force the Polish communist authorities to suppress the demonstrations and dissolve Solidarity. The situation was already dire and gradually worsened, which only fueled anti-communist sentiment. A civil war was hanging by a thread.\n\nIn 1981, Poland notified Club de Paris (a group of Western-European central banks) about its insolvency, which caught the attention of the entire world.\n\nAfter the short tenure of Stanisław Kania, General and Minister of Defence Wojciech Jaruzelski was chosen as the new First Secretary. Before assuming office, Jaruzelski ordered the Polish General Staff to update plans for a nationwide martial law on 22 October 1980. In November 1980, the Ministry of Internal Affairs planned to potentially facilitate thousands of oppositionists in state prisons and places of internment. \n\nOn 5 December 1980, Kania spoke of the preparations relating to martial law at the Warsaw Pact Summit in Moscow. He presented his own view of how to weaken Solidarity and insisted that a \"psychological-operational method\" would be most appropriate to prevent violence. This method entailed strong propaganda against the movement and deploying Secret Services (SB) to go undercover and infiltrate Solidarity headquarters in the hope of creating internal conflicts within the opposition. General Jaruzelski was not fully satisfied with the plan, and, in case of failure, already planned radical actions involving the army. Stanisław Kania warned Brezhnev that an armed intervention from the Soviet side to aid Jaruzelski would be met \"with a violent reaction, or even with a national uprising\" that would shake the politics of the Eastern Bloc. \n\nZbigniew Brzezinski, chief security advisor to US President Jimmy Carter, stated that if the Soviet Union would undertake an armed intervention in Poland, the US would strike back in a riposte manner. According to historian and publicist Paul Kengor, the then US President Ronald Reagan considered sending American troops to Poland to scare off the Soviets. This claim was not supported by Brzezinski nor by Richard Pipes from Harvard University. Kengor then elaborated that Reagan eventually abandoned the plan after he was convinced by his own advisors that the US army stationed across Europe is less capable and much weaker than the Soviet forces. The United States eventually struck back with economic sanctions against Poland and the USSR. \n\nIn February 1981, the Ministry of National Defence and Ministry of the Internal Affairs carried out a training scenario, the purpose of which was to explore how martial law will be introduced. The ministries agreed that martial law should be preceded by appropriate propaganda calling for its support, and the decision itself should be based on a pretext that it would bring peace and stability for the society. It was also highlighted that martial law must occur before the fully mobilized Fighting Solidarity and its allies organize a general strike that would paralyze the entire country. By March, the situation escalated after the Bydgoszcz events, in which local Solidarity delegates invited for a Regional National Council meeting in Bydgoszcz to discuss potential strikes were beaten and abused by the Citizens' Militia (MO). The event, which was to feature in newspapers as a provocation, was concealed by censors. On 27 March, Solidarity organized a warning strike directed at the government, but, on 30 March, Lech Wałęsa met with Mieczysław Rakowski and a compromise was achieved. The general strike was called off and the situation stabilized for a short period.\n\nIn July, the Soviets increased their military presence in the military base at Borne Sulinowo, where the Red Army stationed per Warsaw Pact agreement as in all other Eastern Bloc countries. Without notifying the Polish authorities, the Soviets unexpectedly sent over 600 tanks to Borne Sulinowo. A month later, commander-in-chief of the Warsaw Pact, Viktor Kulikov, requested that Soviet military advisors are to be placed in the Polish General Staff and assigned to nearly all Polish regiments. It is suspected that Kulikov, acting on behalf of the Soviet Union, was tasked with sending undercover KGB agents to monitor the situation in Poland from the Polish military's perspective. His request, however, was immediately denied by the Polish government. \n\nOver 25,000 posters announcing martial law were secretly printed in the USSR, transported to Poland by airplane and hidden in the large building housing the Ministry of Internal Affairs. The full extent of the actions undertaken by Jaruzelski to instigate martial law was not known by even some of the highest notables in the Central Committee of the Polish United Workers' Party or the Polish Sejm.\n\nOn 12 December 1981, shortly before midnight, the Polish Council of State gathered in Warsaw's Belweder Palace and approved nationwide martial law. Simultaneously, the Military Council of National Salvation (WRON - \"Wrona\" is translated as \"Crow\") was founded and its members were high-ranking generals or military officers in the Polish People's Army, who were in charge of the military junta. The generals and officers later became known to the public as evil \"Crows\", in relation to the Polish name of the council. \n\nAt precisely 00:00 (12:00 a.m.), the Motorized Reserves of the Citizens' Militia (ZOMO) began \"Akcja Jodła\" (English: Operation Fir) and arrested the first members of Solidarity who were at close reach. They were then placed in previously-prepared detention facilities. In total, between 70,000 and 80,000 soldiers of the People's Army and 30,000 functionaries of the Ministry of Internal Affairs (including SB, ZOMO and the Militia) were deployed for action. Around 1,750 tanks, 1,900 armoured combat vehicles, 500 militarized transport units, 9,000 cars and several helicopter squadrons were in service. 25% of all units concentrated in the capital, Warsaw, or in surrounding localities.\n\nPreceding Jodła was \"Akcja Azalia\" (English: Operation Azalea), which began at around 22:30 (10:30 p.m.) on 12 December. Per Azalea, the SB secret services, paramilitary troops, the Militia, ZOMO and Border Protection Troops stormed 451 telecommunications exchange facilities and cut telephone lines to allegedly prevent the spread of misinformation. However, the operation's true purpose was preventing Solidarity from contacting its branches in other cities to mobilize protesters. Radio and television stations were also besieged. Any volunteers wishing to assist in the arrests were drafted into ORMO. \n\nThe Polish Radio informed about martial law being imposed at a 06:00 (6:00 a.m.) audition, and transmitted the speech made by General Jaruzelski. Telewizja Polska network and its chief news program \"Dziennik\" (English: Journal) aired the speech in a slightly modified version. The declaration was watched by millions of Polish citizens despite the early hour.\n\nThree days after restrictions were imposed, miners at the Wujek Coal Mine in the industrial city of Katowice began striking against the declaration of martial law by General Jaruzelski. Most of the miners and workers at Wujek were allied with the Solidarity Movement, with its leaders boycotting the state industries. Furthermore, coal was a precious fuel source that was used for generating electricity and heat, but also a major export material. By selling and exporting coal, the communist government obtained enough money to gradually pay off the outstanding debt. However, as Solidarity boycotted the mines in Silesia and demonstrations became more frequent, the production level dropped considerably along with revenue. \n\nJaruzelski perceived this as a threat to both state security and the economy. The forces used in the thrust consisted of eight ZOMO squads supported by ORMO, seven water cannons, three regiments with infantry combat vehicles and one tank regiment. It was decided that the situation was far too serious for adopting the principles of morality to appropriately deal with the miners. Instead, the well-equipped ZOMO and army troops fired at the protesters with a \"shoot to kill\" technique. 21 were wounded, 8 were killed on the spot and 1 died in hospital, with the youngest victim being only 19 years old. The remaining crowd was violently dispersed. The miners repeatedly fought back with their work tools and, in retaliation, wounded dozens of soldiers and militiamen. It was one of the deadliest single incidents during the martial law period.\n\nOn the same day as Wujek was pacified, a 30,000-strong demonstration was held in the northern port city of Gdańsk. Clashes with ZOMO continued until 17 December and over 324 individuals were injured. The Militia used firearms and machine guns when the crowd approached the Polish United Workers' Party headquarters in Gdańsk. A short and presumably cautionary gun salvo from the building's roof hit several people and wounded 4. 1 participant was killed. The southern city of Kraków was also witnessing heavy demonstrations, with thousands marching on the street demanding an end to the martial law and communist rule. \n\nOn the night of 29-30 April 1982, local miners in Wodzisław Śląski planted a bomb and blew up a monument dedicated to Soviet soldiers who liberated Poland from the Nazis in 1945. It was the only incident involving explosives and the caught perpetrators became subsequently known as \"Bombers from Silesia\" (Polish: \"Bombowcy ze Śląska\"). The operation was a success as the monument was never reconstructed, though the bombers were sentenced and jailed soon-after. Other suspects and hundreds of other miners across Silesia were sacked and removed from their job posts, which further weakened the economy. \n\nIn May 1982, the protests convened by Solidarity were receiving less attention and the struggle against the government was evidently weakening. However, by August, the social unrest again surged. On 31 August 1982, demonstrations took place in around 66 towns and cities, with at least 18 in the southwestern province of Lower Silesia. In Wrocław, one of main centers of Fighting Solidarity, several thousand people for many hours clashed with ZOMO units. One demonstrator was killed by a bullet. \n\nThe copper-mining town of Lubin also became a hotspot for Solidarity-led rallies. On that day, the gathered people sung the Polish national anthem and chanted slurs and slogans against the communist regime, against the military junta with Jaruzelski as its head and against the Soviets. After approximately 30 minutes, the rally of 2,000 was surrounded by the Militia, armed with AK-47 assault rifles. In response, agitated protesters shouted slurs such as \"pigs\", \"bandits\", \"Gestapo\", \"murderers\" and \"servants of Brezhnev\". An unsuccessful attempt was made at building a barricade, but the government units were able to pass through and dispersed the first group with tear gas. When the demonstrators regrouped and formed a second wave, ZOMO opened fire and wittingly murdered 2 men. The now infuriated crowd began continuous attacks and the Militia shot several more times, injuring one more man at the back of his head. He died in hospital few days later. Reinforcements were sent from Legnica and the new deployees were organized into so-called \"raid groups\" in Nysa vans. These groups roamed the streets, often attacking casual passers-by. Immediately after the protest was pacified, security forces began the destruction of any evidence to conceal the crime. During the night of 31 August–1 September, the streets were cleared, with all shells and bullets taken for analysis. On 2 September, authorities ordered the repairs of damaged buildings; broken windows were replaced and traces of bullets on the walls were covered with plaster. The investigation, despite consistent statements made by witnesses of the massacre, was closed. \n\nTo avoid further escalation, on 14 November, Lech Wałęsa was released from custody in a detention camp. Following his release, no major demonstration took place.\n\nFrom the very beginning in December 1981, a strict curfew was imposed from 19:00 (7:00 p.m.) until 6 in the morning. The time of curfew was later adjusted to 22:00 (10:00 p.m.)–06:00. Night walks or escapades were forbidden and street patrols were commonplace. The WRON Military Council sealed off the country's borders, closed all airports and road access to main cities was restricted. Special permission passes were issued for individuals in extraordinary cases. Telephone lines were disconnected, mail was subjected to renewed postal censorship, all independent political organizations were criminalized and lessons in schools and universities temporarily suspended. \n\nThe government imposed a six-day work week while the mass media, public services, healthcare services, power stations, coal mines, sea ports, railway stations, and most key factories were placed under military management, with employees having to follow military orders or face a court martial. As part of the crackdown, media and educational institutions underwent \"verification\", a process that tested each employee's attitude towards the regime and to the Solidarity movement; as a result, thousands of journalists, teachers and professors were banned from their professions. Military courts were established to bypass the normal court system, to imprison those spreading \"false information\". In an attempt to crush resistance, civilian phone lines were routinely tapped and monitored by government agents.\n\nDuring the initial imposition of martial law, several dozen people were killed. Official reports during the crackdown claimed about a dozen fatalities, while a parliamentary commission in the years 1989–1991 arrived at a figure of over 90. Others were also killed and wounded during a massive second wave of demonstrations on 31 August 1982.\n\nAt the invitation of Jaruzelski, a delegation of the ruling Hungarian Socialist Workers' Party visited Poland between 27 and 29 December. The Hungarians shared with their Polish colleagues their experiences on crushing the \"counterrevolution\" of 1956. Earlier in the autumn of 1981, Polish television had broadcast a special film on the 1956 events in Hungary, showing scenes of rebels hanging security officers etc.\n\nEven after martial law was lifted, a number of restrictions remained in place for several years that drastically reduced the civil liberties of the citizenry. It also led to severe economic consequences. The ruling military dictatorship instituted major price rises (dubbed \"economic reforms\"), which resulted in a fall in real wages. The resulting economic crisis led to the even more rationing of most basic products and materials.\n\nAs a consequence of the economic hardships and political repressions, an exodus of Poles saw 700,000 migrate to the West between 1981 and 1989. \nA number of international flights were even hijacked in attempts to flee the country and its economic problems. Between December 1980 and October 1983, 11 Polish flights were hijacked to Berlin Tempelhof Airport alone.\n\nAround the same time, a group calling themselves the \"Polish Revolutionary Home Army\" seized the Polish Embassy in Bern, Switzerland on 6 September 1982, taking several diplomats as hostages. However this turned out to be an apparent provocation by the communist Polish secret services aiming to discredit the Solidarity movement.\n\nAfter the \"Wujek\" Coal Mine incident in Katowice on 23 December 1981, the United States imposed economic sanctions against the People's Republic of Poland. In 1982 the United States suspended most favored nation trade status until 1987 and vetoed Poland's application for membership in the International Monetary Fund.\n\nPope John Paul II wrote a letter to the Primate of Poland, Stefan Cardinal Wyszynski, in which he called for peace talks between the state and the workers, supporting the Poles' \"undeniable right to resolve their problems by themselves.\"\n\nAfter the fall of Communism in Poland in 1989, members of a parliamentary commission determined that martial law had been imposed in clear violation of the country's constitution which had authorized the executive to declare martial law only between parliamentary sessions (at other times the decision was to be taken by the Sejm). However, the Sejm had been in session at the time when martial law was instituted. In 1992 the Sejm declared the 1981 imposition of martial law to be unlawful and unconstitutional.\n\nThe instigators of the martial law, such as Wojciech Jaruzelski, argue that the army crackdown rescued Poland from a possibly disastrous military intervention of the Soviet Union, East Germany, and other Warsaw Pact countries (similar to the earlier interventions in Hungary in 1956 and Czechoslovakia in 1968). Public figures who supported the introduction of martial law (including some of the right-wing figures like Jędrzej Giertych) would also refer to that threat.\n\nIn 2009, archive documents hinted that in a conversation Jaruzelski had with Viktor Kulikov, a Soviet military leader, Jaruzelski himself begged for Soviet intervention as his domestic control was deteriorating. Jaruzelski responded by claiming the document was 'just another falsification' and denied all charges.\n\nLed by General of the Army Wojciech Jaruzelski, the Military Council of National Salvation (\"Wojskowa Rada Ocalenia Narodowego\", WRON) usurped for itself powers reserved for wartime, hence the name. The plan was presented to the government of the Soviet Union before the declaration in March 1981.\n\nAppearing on Polish television at 6:00 a.m. on 13 December 1981, General Jaruzelski said:\n\nToday I address myself to you as a soldier and as the head of the Polish government. I address you concerning extraordinarily important questions. Our homeland is at the edge of an abyss. The achievements of many generations and the Polish home that has been built up from the dust are about to turn into ruins. State structures are ceasing to function. Each day delivers new blows to the waning economy./.../<br>The atmosphere of conflicts, misunderstanding, hatred causes moral degradation, surpasses the limits of toleration. Strikes, the readiness to strike, actions of protest have become a norm of life. Even school youth are being drawn into this. Yesterday evening, many public buildings remained seized. The cries are voiced to physical reprisals with the 'reds', with people who have different opinions. <br>The cases of terror, threats and moral vendetta, of even direct violence are on the rise. A wave of impudent crimes, robberies and burglaries is running across the country. The underground business sharks' fortunes, already reaching millions, are growing. Chaos and demoralization have reached the magnitude of a catastrophe. People have reached the limit of psychological toleration. Many people are struck by despair. Not only days, but hours as well are bringing forth the all-national disaster./.../<br>Citizens!<br>The load of responsibility that falls on me on this dramatic moment in the Polish history is huge. It is my duty to take this responsibility - concerning the future of Poland, that my generation fought for on all the fronts of the war and for which they sacrificed the best years of their life. I declare, that today the Military Council of National Salvation has been formed. In accordance with the Constitution, the State Council has imposed martial law all over the country. I wish that everyone understood the motives of our actions. A military coup, military dictatorship is not our goal./.../<br> In longer perspective, none of Poland's problems can be solved with the use of violence. The Military Council of National Salvation does not replace constitutional organs of power. Its only purpose is to keep the legal balance of the country, to create guarantees that give a chance to restore order and discipline. This is the ultimate way to bring the country out of the crisis, to save the country from collapse./.../<br>I appeal to all the citizens. A time of heavy trials has arrived. And we have to stand those in order to prove that we are worthy of Poland.<br>Before all the Polish people and the whole world I would like to repeat the immortal words: <br>\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2010314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010314", "title": "Grumman G-118", "text": "Grumman G-118\n\nThe Grumman G-118 (sometimes called the XF12F, though this was never official) was a design for an all-weather missile-armed interceptor aircraft for use on US Navy aircraft carriers. Originally conceived as an uprated F11F Tiger, it soon evolved into a larger and more powerful project. Although two prototypes were ordered in , development was cancelled the same year in favor of the F4H Phantom II before any examples were built. Grumman's next (and last) carrier fighter would be the F-14 Tomcat, ordered in 1968.\n\nThe Grumman Design 118 was a two-seat, twin-engined, rocket augmented, carrier-based all-weather supersonic fighter aircraft. It had a 45° swept wing, a \"T-tail\" empennage, two small folding ventral fins, and a landing gear of tricycle configuration. For ejection, the tandem crew were encapsulated and ejected downwards. It also featured a boundary layer control system to improve low speed handling.\n\nThe G-118 was to be powered by two J79-GE-3 engines, with accommodations for the more powerful J79-GE-207 engines each producing 18,000 lbf of afterburning thrust. Similar to the contemporary Vought XF8U-3 Crusader III, it was designed with an additional throttleable liquid-fueled rocket engine using a mixture of JP-4 fuel and hydrogen peroxide oxidizer which produced 5,000 lbf of thrust.\n\nArmament stores would have been under the fuselage in two semi-recessed hardpoints for the AIM-7 Sparrow air-to-air missile and an internal weapons bay for an additional AIM-7 or three AIM-9 Sidewinder missiles.\n\n"}
{"id": "2010320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010320", "title": "Coat of arms of Pope Benedict XVI", "text": "Coat of arms of Pope Benedict XVI\n\nThe personal papal coat of arms of Pope Benedict XVI was designed by Archbishop Andrea Cordero Lanza di Montezemolo (who was later created a Cardinal) soon after the papal election in 2005.\n\nThe shape of the shield varies from artist to artist. In the official rendering of the coat of arms of Pope Benedict XVI the shape chosen is that of a chalice.\n\nThe blazon (the written description, in terminology peculiar to heraldry, of the contents of the coat of arms) given on the Vatican website is as follows:\nThis means, in non-technical English:\n\nNote 1. A mantle outside the shield does not normally contain \"charges\" (an heraldic term for objects). Within the shield, as here, it is a religious symbol, and indicates ideals inspired in monastic spirituality. It is also a reference to the Order of Saint Benedict.\n\nThe charges of the arms — the Moor's head, Corbinian's bear, and scallop — appeared on Ratzinger's previous coat of arms, used when he was Archbishop of Munich and Freising. However, they relate not only to his origins, but also to his trust in God, as well his calling to spread this faith to others.\n\nThe symbolism of the scallop shell is multiple. Saint Augustine is said to have been walking along the seashore, meditating on the unfathomable mystery of the Holy Trinity. A boy was using a shell to pour sea water into a little hole. When Augustine asked him what he was doing, he replied, \"I am emptying the sea into this hole.\" Thus did Augustine understand that man would never penetrate to the depths of the mystery of God. While a doctoral candidate in 1953, Fr. Joseph Ratzinger wrote his dissertation on \"The People of God and the House of God in Augustine's Teaching is always about the Church\", and the shell therefore has a personal connection with the thought of this great Doctor of the Church.\n\nThe scallop shell is also an allusion to the Sacrament of Holy Baptism. In the Roman Catholic Church, a sea shell is often used to pour water over the head of the child being baptized. Thus, a sea shell is used to evoke the imagery of this rite which is fundamental to the Christian life.\n\nThe shell also stands for pilgrimage. When topped with a scallop shell a pilgrim's staff, or \"Jacob's staff\", is the sign of a pilgrim. In Church art it is a symbol of the apostle Saint James the Great, and his sanctuary at Santiago de Compostela in Spain, perhaps the principal place of pilgrimage during the Middle Ages. This symbol also alludes to \"the pilgrim people of God\", a title for the Church which Joseph Ratzinger championed at the Second Vatican Council as \"peritus\" (theological adviser) to Cardinals Josef Frings of Cologne and Julius Döpfner of Munich-Freising (his episcopal predecessor). When he became Archbishop he took the shell in his coat of arms. It is also found in the insignia of the Schottenkloster in Regensburg, where the major seminary of that diocese is located, a place where Benedict taught as a professor of theology.\n\nFinally, the pilgrimage symbolism of the shell may also refer both to the reconfigured role of the pope as not only ruler, but also pilgrim among the peoples and nations of the world. Pope Paul VI—who created Joseph Ratzinger as a cardinal in 1977—was often called the \"Pilgrim Pope\" for his ground-breaking travels to the Holy Land, India, the United States, Colombia, the Philippines, and elsewhere. This precedent was greatly elaborated upon by Pope John Paul II with his historic trips, numbering over a hundred. As a result, Benedict may be paying homage to these men and the new role for the papacy.\n\nThe Moor's head is a heraldic charge associated with Wörth, Upper Bavaria, Germany. The origin of the Moor's head in Freising is not entirely known. Typically facing to the heraldic right, the viewer's left (\"dexter\" in heraldic terms) and depicted in natural brown colour \"caput Aethiopum\" (literally \"Ethiopian head\") with red lips, crown and collar. This is the ancient emblem of the Diocese of Freising, founded in the 8th century, which became a Metropolitan Archdiocese with the name of München und Freising in 1818, subsequent to the Concordat between Pius VII and King Maximilian Joseph of Bavaria (5 June 1817).\n\nThe Moor's head is fairly common in European heraldry. It still appears today in the arms of Sardinia and Corsica, as well as in the blazons of various noble families. Italian heraldry, however, usually depicts the Moor wearing a white band around his head instead of a crown, indicating a slave who has been freed; whereas in German heraldry the Moor is shown wearing a crown. The Moor's head is common in the Bavarian tradition and is known as the \"caput Ethiopicum\" or the \"Moor of Freising\".\n\nA legend states that while traveling to Rome, Saint Corbinian's pack horse was killed by a bear. He commanded the bear to carry the load. Once he arrived, he released it from his service, and it returned to Bavaria. The implication is that \"Christianity tamed and domesticated the ferocity of paganism and thus laid the foundations for a great civilization in the Duchy of Bavaria.\" At the same time, Corbinian's bear, as God's beast of burden, symbolizes the weight of office that Benedict carried.\n\nTraditionally, a pope's coat of arms was externally adorned only by the three-tiered papal tiara with lappets and the crossed keys of Saint Peter with a cord. No other objects nor a motto was added. The tiara represented the roles of authority of the pope, while the keys represent the power to loose and bind on heaven and earth (). Pope Benedict's arms maintain the keys, but replace the tiara with a mitre and add a pallium. However, the tiara and keys remain the symbol of the papacy, and appear on the coat of arms of the Holy See and (reversed) on the flag of Vatican City.\n\nIn Pope Benedict's arms, the tiara is replaced with a silver mitre with three gold stripes. These stripes recall the three crowns of the tiara, which came to represent the three powers of the Bishop of Rome: Orders, Jurisdiction and Magisterium. The stripes preserve that meaning and are joined at the centre to show their unity in the same person. Coincidentally, the three stripes and the vertical stripe in the center of the mitre also forms the Chinese character for “sovereign” (王).\n\nThe pallium with red crosses is also a new addition. It represents a bishop's role of being pastor of the flock entrusted to him by Christ. The form of the pallium included in the coat of arms recalls that used by metropolitan archbishops (but with black crosses) rather than the much larger pallium worn by Pope Benedict at his inauguration.\n\nAfter Benedict resigned as pope in 2013 and assumed the role of pope emeritus, Cardinal Andrea Cordero Lanza di Montezemolo, who designed the coat of arms in 2005, said that Benedict XVI needed a new coat of arms now that he was no longer the pontiff. Montezemolo drew up a proposal for a new coat of arms (which was not officially adopted), which Montezemolo believed could be used now by the former pontiff. Montezemolo's proposal moved the big keys of Saint Peter from the back of the coat of arms to the top part of the shield and made them much smaller.\n"}
{"id": "2010322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010322", "title": "New Hampshire Route 102", "text": "New Hampshire Route 102\n\nNew Hampshire Route 102 (abbreviated NH 102) is a state highway in Rockingham and Hillsborough counties in the southern part of the U.S. state of New Hampshire. NH 102 runs southwest to northeast between Hudson and Raymond, but is signed as an east–west route.\n\nSome confusion exists over the western terminus. The state route logs show that the end of the road is at the junction with Ferry Street (New Hampshire Route 111) in Hudson, and the end of NH 102 is marked at that intersection westbound. However, local signage further west along NH 111 shows NH 102 continuing along NH 111 as a concurrency over the Hudson Bridge into Nashua. Signage on the bridge indicates NH 102 sharing East Hollis Street with NH 111.\n\nThe eastern terminus of NH 102 is in Raymond at New Hampshire Route 107, a short distance south of New Hampshire Route 101. While older exit signs on NH 101 indicated 102 at the exit, the road officially ends at NH 107, and recently-replaced signage on NH 101 now reads \"TO NH 102.\"\n\nThe route starts in Hudson at Route 111 (Ferry Street) and Route 3A (Chase Street). This starts a concurrency with Route 3A. The southern part of this concurrency forms one of the main commercial districts in Hudson, known as Derry Street. At Elm Avenue, 3A leaves the concurrency heading west, while 102 continues in a more northeasterly direction along Derry Road. After passing Alvirne High School, NH 102 passes through the extreme southeastern corner of Litchfield before returning to Hudson. After leaving Hudson a second time, it enters Londonderry as Nashua Road, passing through a rural area near several farms and apple orchards. A small commercial district surrounds the intersection with New Hampshire Route 128/Mammoth Road, and another more developed commercial district lies just to the west of 102's interchange with I-93.\n\nImmediately after the interchange with I-93, Route 3A enters Derry as Broadway, the main commercial thoroughfare in town. After the intersection with Crystal Avenue (New Hampshire Route 28) at the center of town, it passes the Hoodkroft golf course and meets Main Street (New Hampshire Route 28 Bypass) at a traffic circle at the community of Derry Village. After the traffic circle, the route continues northwest along Chester Road, passing the Beaver Lake recreational area, and winding through the rural eastern portion of the town of Derry before entering the town of Chester, forming the main north-south route through the town. At the town center of Chester, NH 102 intersects New Hampshire Route 121, following Derry Road south of the intersection, and Raymond Road north of the intersection. Following a more northeasterly route, it winds through a rural area in southeastern Raymond before reaching its eastern terminus at New Hampshire Route 107, about 1/2 mile short of the interchange with the New Hampshire Route 101 freeway.\n"}
{"id": "2010325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010325", "title": "Whaleback Shell Midden", "text": "Whaleback Shell Midden\n\nWhaleback Shell Midden is a shell midden, or dump, consisting primarily of oyster shells located on the east side of the Damariscotta River in Maine, United States. It is preserved as a Maine state historic site and was included as part of the Damariscotta Oyster Shell Heaps listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1969. Other shell middens are located on the estuary in both Damariscotta and Newcastle. The middens in this area were formed over about 1,000 years between 200 BC to AD 1000.\n\nThe midden originally had three main layers of shells. In the bottom two layers, individual shells were generally long. These two layers are separated by a layer of soil, and the middle layer is mixed with animal bones. The top layer contains smaller shells. Artifacts unearthed lead scientists to believe that successive tribes of prehistoric people used the area. The top layer was deposited by members of the Abenaki tribes that fished in the area in the summer.\n\nOriginally, the Whaleback midden was more than thirty feet deep, more than 1,650 feet in length, and a width varying from 1,320 to 1,650 feet. It got its name from its shape. Only a small portion of this midden remains today as much of it was processed into chicken feed from 1886 to 1891 by the Massachusetts-based Damariscotta Shell and Fertilizer company. Because of this, the Glidden midden, located across the river in Newcastle, is now the largest in Maine and the largest on the U.S. east coast north of Georgia.\n\nEarly people in Maine were significantly influenced by a changing climate around them, a climate that was largely shaped by glaciation. Before the shell midden was created, the Late Wisconsinan Laurentide Ice Sheet (LIS) covered Maine's landscape 35,000 years ago, extending far into the ocean. As the ice sheet retreated, Maine's climate was undergoing deglaciation about 14.5-11kya. Due to isostatic rebound, sea levels were fluctuating immensely. At the start of the deglaciation, the sea level was much higher inland; the landscape at the time would have resembled northern Alaska. This impacted the culture of people by promoting hunter-gatherer dynamics that could respond more quickly to changing climates. It would be expected that early inhabitants would have roamed around the terrestrial landscapes hunting herds of animals. \n\nThe area around the remains of the Whaleback is a Maine state historic site, first opened for a full season in 2005, with some historical displays and a hiking trail.\n\nBy 1875 oysters that were once abundant were no longer native to New England waters. Wild populations have been established in recent years by the spawn of aquaculture oysters.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2010326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010326", "title": "Sex differences in crime", "text": "Sex differences in crime\n\nSex differences in crime are differences between men and women as the perpetrators or victims of crime. Such studies may belong to fields such as criminology (the scientific study of criminal behavior), sociobiology (which attempts to demonstrate a causal relationship between biological factors, in this case biological sex and human behaviors), or feminist studies. Despite the difficulty of interpreting them, crime statistics may provide a way to investigate such a relationship from a gender differences perspective. An observable difference in crime rates between men and women might be due to social and cultural factors, crimes going unreported, or to biological factors (for example, testosterone or sociobiological theories). Taking the nature of the crime itself into consideration may also be a factor.\n\nStatistics have been consistent in reporting that men commit more criminal acts than women. Self-reported delinquent acts are also higher for men than women across many different actions. Burton, et al. (1998) found that low levels of self control are associated with criminal activity. Many professionals have offered explanations for this sex difference. Some differing explanations include men's evolutionary tendency toward risk and violent behavior, sex differences in activity, social support, or gender inequality.\n\nBurton \"et al.\" (1998) assessed Gottfredson and Hirschi's (1990) \"general theory of crime,\" which stated that individuals with lower levels of self-control are more likely to be involved in criminal behavior, in a gender-sensitive context. The purpose of their study was to account for the gender gap in crime rates. By using a self-reporting questionnaire, Burton \"et al.\" (1998) retrieved data from 555 people aged eighteen and older in the Cincinnati, Ohio, area. Early results from the study indicated that low self-control was highly positively correlated to criminal behavior in both genders, but was especially significant for males. For females, the relationship became significant when opportunity was introduced and considered with level of self-control. Opportunity was not a significant indicator of male criminal behavior, which the authors attribute to the assumption that opportunity for criminal behavior is ubiquitous for men. In this study, opportunity was measured by the number of nights per week individuals go out for recreation purposes. Similarly, the authors conclude that women are less likely to be exposed to opportunities for criminal behavior, speculating that \"constraints often placed on females, and that accompany their lifestyles\" contribute to less opportunity for crime. With self-control being significant for males but not for females, the conclusions of this study pointed toward the notion that men and women commit crimes for different reasons. The notion that self-control was only significant for women when combined with opportunity helps account for the gender gap seen in crime rates.\n\nDavid Rowe, Alexander Vazsonyi, and Daniel Flannery, authors of \"Sex Differences in Crime: Do Means and Within-Sex Variation Have Similar Causes?\", focus on the widely acknowledged fact that there is a large sex difference in crime: more men than women commit crimes. This fact has been true over time and across cultures. Also, there is a greater number of men that commit serious crimes resulting in injury or death than women. In a study that looked at self-reports of delinquent acts, researchers identified several sex differences by looking at sex ratios. For every woman, 1.28 men drink alcohol, which is a large influencer in deviant behavior. For every woman, 2.7 men committed the crime of stealing up to $50. Lastly, for every woman, 3.7 men steal more than $50. Also, more males are involved in homicides, as both the perpetrators and victims, than females. Furthermore, one male is more delinquent than another for mainly the same reasons that men typically engage in criminal acts more than women.\n\nTerrie Moffitt and Avshalom Caspi compare childhood risk factors of males and females portraying childhood-onset and adolescent-onset antisocial behavior, which influences deviant behavior in individuals. Childhood-onset delinquency is attributed to lack of parenting, neurocognitive problems, and temperament and behavior problems. On the other hand, adolescent-onset delinquents did not encounter similar childhood problems. This study showed a male-to-female ratio of 10:1 for those experiencing childhood-onset delinquency and 15:1 for adolescent-onset delinquency. Moffitt and Caspi hypothesized that \"'life-course-persistent' antisocial behavior originates early in life, when the difficult behavior of a high-risk young child is exacerbated by a high-risk social environment\". Also, \"'adolescent-limited' antisocial behavior emerges alongside puberty, where otherwise healthy youngsters experience dysphoria during the relatively role-less years between biological maturation and access to mature privileges and responsibilities\", called the maturity gap. They look at the taxonomy theory, which states that the gender difference in crime are based on sex differences in the risk factors for life-course-persistent antisocial behavior. Based on research, girls are less likely than boys to have nervous system dysfunctions, difficult temperament, late maturity in verbal and motor development, learning disabilities, and childhood behavioral problems.\n\nConsiderations of gender in regard to crime have been considered to be largely ignored and pushed aside in criminological and sociological study, until recent years, to the extent of female deviance having been marginalized. In the past fifty years of sociological research into crime and deviance, sex differences were understood and quite often mentioned within works, such as Merton's theory of anomie; however, they were not critically discussed, and often any mention of female delinquency was only as comparative to males, to explain male behaviors, or through defining the girl as taking on the role of a boy, namely, conducting their behavior and appearance as that of a tomboy and by rejecting the female gender role, adopting stereotypical masculine traits.\n\nEagly and Steffen suggested in their meta-analysis of data on sex and aggression that beliefs about the negative consequences of violating gender expectations affect how both genders behave regarding aggression. Psychologist Anne Campbell argued that \"cultural interpretations have 'enhanced' evolutionarily based sex differences by a process of imposition which stigmatises the expression of aggression by females and causes women to offer exculpatory (rather than justificatory) accounts of their own aggression.\"\n\nOne key reason contended for this lack of attention to females in crime and deviance is due to the view that female crime has almost exclusively been dealt with by men, from policing through to legislators, and that this has continued through into the theoretical approaches, quite often portraying what could be considered as a one-sided view, as Mannheim suggested.\n\nHowever, other contentions have been made as explanations for the invisibility of women in regard to theoretical approaches, such as: females have an '...apparently low level of offending'); that they pose less of a social threat than their male counterparts; that their 'delinquencies tend to be of a relatively minor kind', but also due to the fear that including women in research could threaten or undermine theories, as Thrasher and Sutherland feared would happen with their research.\n\nFurther theories have been contended, with many debates surrounding the involvement and ignoring of women within theoretical studies of crime; however, with new approaches and advances in feminist studies and masculinity studies, and the claims of increases in recent years in female crime, especially that of violent crime.\n\nPast studies explained gender and crime through psychological and biological aspects. However, now specific sociological theories analyze the gender differences when it comes to committing crime. Brezina's research focuses on the \"general strain theory,\" specifically, on why males and females have a gap rate in crime. One view is that the gender gap of crime is associated with different strains and various types of experiences males and females go through. For instance, their socialization, life events, home life, and relationships differ from one another. Because of this, research suggests that boys and men are more closely related to crime and delinquency. Brezina argues that because boys are more exposed to harsh punishment from their parents while growing up, negative experiences at school, no support system, and homelessness, they have more freedom to commit a crime. Brezina states that some boys and men tend to see crime as acceptable because they favor their \"internalized 'masculine' values.\"\n\nBrezina argues that girls and women have limited opportunities to commit crime. They, for example, are more dedicated to family and friends, have higher parental supervision, and are less likely to link themselves to delinquent peers. Therefore, their strains would be high family demands and lose of friendship. This leads to them reacting to strain differently than males do. Instead of coping their strain with crime, they express it with their emotions to eliminate the stress. The emotional response females receive, are fear, guilt, anxiety, or shame, which decreases their chances of committing a crime. In addition, girls and women have a great amount of social support, which also leads to lower rate of crime. The types of strain that males and females experience can be an understanding of why there is a gender gap in crime.\n\nEvolutionary psychology has proposed several evolutionary explanations for gender differences in aggressiveness. Males can increase their reproductive success by polygyny which will lead the competition with other males over females. If the mother died, this may have had more serious consequences for a child than if the father died in the ancestral environment since there is a tendency for greater parental investments and caring for children by females than by males. Greater caring for children also leads to difficulty leaving them in order to either fight or flee. Anne Campbell writes that females may thus avoid direct physical aggressiveness and instead use strategies such as \"friendship termination, gossiping, ostracism, and stigmatization\".\n\nPsychologist and professor Mark van Vugt, from VU University at Amsterdam, Netherlands, has argued that males have evolved more aggressive and group-oriented in order to gain access to resources, territories, mates and higher status. His theory the Male Warrior hypothesis explains that males throughout hominid history have evolved to form coalitions or groups in order to engage in inter-group aggression and increase their chances of acquiring resources, mates and territory. Vugt argues that this evolved male social dynamic explains the human history of war to modern day gang rivalry which is under a process of male on male competition in order to gain resources and potential mates.\n\nThere are two theories on the role of testosterone in aggression and competition among males. The first one is the Challenge hypothesis which states that testosterone would increase during puberty thus facilitating reproductive and competitive behaviour which would include aggression as a result of evolution. Thus it is the challenge of competition in relation to testosterone among males of the species that facilitates aggression and violence. Studies conducted have found direct correlation between testosterone and dominance especially among the most violent criminals in prison who had the highest testosterone levels. The same research also found fathers (those outside competitive environments) had the lowest testosterone levels compared to other males. The second theory is also similar and is known as the evolutionary neuroandrogenic (ENA) theory of male aggression. Testosterone and other androgens have evolved to masculinize a brain in order to be competitive even as far as being a risk to harming others. By doing so, individuals with masculinized brains as a result of pre-natal and adult life testosterone and androgens enhance their resource acquiring abilities in order to survive, attract and copulate with mates as much as possible. Thus, crime can be seen as an extreme form of adaptation to gain status and acquire more resources. Many other researchers have agreed with this and have stated that criminal behavior is an expression of inter-male competition in mating efforts and resource seeking since there is a huge correlation between criminals and fathering children at younger ages.\n\nWomen are more likely to use direct aggression in private, where other people cannot see them, and are more likely to use indirect aggression (such as passive-aggressive behavior) in public. Men are more likely to be the targets of displays of aggression and provocation than women. Studies by Bettencourt and Miller show that when provocation is controlled for, sex differences in aggression are greatly reduced. They argue that this shows that gender-role norms play a large part in the differences in aggressive behavior between men and women.\n\nAccording to the 2015 \"International Encyclopedia of the Social & Behavioral Sciences\", sex differences in aggression is one of the most robust and oldest findings in psychology. Past meta-analyses in the encyclopedia found males regardless of age engaged in more physical and verbal aggression while small effect for females engaging in more indirect aggression such as rumor spreading or gossiping. It also found males tend to engage in more unprovoked aggression at higher frequency than females. This replicated another 2007 meta-analysis of 148 studies in the journal \"Child Development\" which found greater male aggression in childhood and adolescence. This analysis also conforms with the \"Oxford Handbook of Evolutionary Psychology\" which reviewed past analysis and found greater male use in verbal and physical aggression with the difference being greater in the physical type. A meta-analysis of 122 studies published in the journal of \"Aggressive Behavior\" found males are more likely to cyberbully than females, although the difference was small. Difference also showed that females reported more cyberbullying behavior during mid-adolescence while males showed more cyberbullying behavior at late adolescence.\n\nWhile the literature generally finds that women are more commonly the victims of domestic violence, some research suggests that rates of physical aggression within the context of dating and marriage tend to be similar for men and women, or that women are more likely to commit domestic violence against a partner; this is known as gender symmetry. However, such data generally shows that men tend to inflict the greater share of injuries and incite significantly more fear in domestic violence. Critics have used studies such as Dekeseredy et al. to argue that \"studies finding about equal rates of violence by women in relationships are misleading because they fail to place the violence in context; in other words, there is a difference between someone who uses violence to fight back or defend oneself and someone who initiates an unprovoked assault.\"\n\nOne study argued that it was the above-cited Dekeseredy et al. that in fact improperly contextualized partner violence; Dekeseredy's campus study was based around asking women and only women if their violence was in self-defense, and not permitting the same for men. This results in counting men who had defended themselves as perpetrators, and counting women who may have engaged in ex post facto justification of their violence, a noted trait of psychological abuse, as victims. The study further found that studies from the US Department of Justice did not contextualize violence simply by not counting women perpetrators until forced to by the US Center for Disease Control (CDC). Other studies that decontextualized partner violence included labeling aggregate findings of motivations for violence that included the desire to coerce or control the partner or being angry with the partner as \"striking back\" when such questions revealed that women scored equal to or higher than men in desires to use violence out of simple anger or to coerce and control the partner. This, however, is contradicted by other reviews which found women's primary motivation were triggered by anger or self-defense while men's motivation was more about control. Some studies have also postulated that when other factors such as allowing both or neither gender to claim self-defense, or simply including male victims and female perpetrators in the sample, the results were at or near parity for perpetrators and victims, with the results near parity sometimes favoring females and sometimes favoring males. Another large study reveals that women are between two and three times as likely to be the offender in non-reciprocal partner violence. The study suggests that while women are far more prone to be the sole offender, reciprocal violence where both partners use violence has higher frequency of serious injuries, and that these injuries more often have female victims than male.\n\nA 2008 review published in the journal \"Violence and Victims\" found that although less serious situation violence or altercation was equal for both genders, more serious and violent abuse was perpetrated by men. It was also found that women's physical violence was more likely motivated by self-defense or fear while men's was motivated by control. A 2011 systematic review from the journal of \"Trauma Violence Abuse\" also found that the common motives for female on male domestic violence were anger, a need for attention, or as a response to their partner's own violence. Another 2011 review published in the journal of \"Aggression and Violent Behavior\" also found that although minor domestic violence was equal, more severe violence was perpetrated by men. It was also found that men were more likely to beat up, choke or strangle their partners, while women were more likely to throw something at their partner, slap, kick, bite, punch, or hit with an object.\n\nOne study has noted substantial differences in the treatment and behavior of defendants in the courts on the basis of gender; female criminologist Frances Heidensohn postulates that for judges and juries it is often \"impossible to isolate the circumstances that the defendant is a woman from the circumstances that she can also be a widow, a mother, attractive, or may cry on the stand.\" Furthermore, male and female defendants in court have reported being advised to conduct themselves differently in accordance with their gender; women in particular recall being advised to express \"mute passivity,\" whereas men are encouraged to \"assert themselves\" in cross-examinations and testimony.\n\nIn the United States, men are much more likely to be incarcerated than women. More than 9 times as many men (5,037,000) as women (581,000) had ever at one time been incarcerated in a State or Federal prison at year end 2001. According to the Bureau of Justice Statistics, males experienced higher victimization rates than females for all types of violent crime except rape or other sexual assault.\n\nIn 2014, more than 73% of those arrested in the US were males. Men accounted for 80.4 percent of persons arrested for violent crime and 62.9 percent of those arrested for property crime. In 2011, the United States Department of Justice compiled homicide statistics in the United States between 1980 and 2008. That study showed the following:\n2011 arrest data from the FBI:\n\nFrom 2003 to 2012, there was a decrease in the rate of crime overall, but an increase in crimes committed by women. There was an increase in arrest rate for women of 2.9% but a decrease in arrest rate for men of 12.7%. This demonstrates an increase in arrests for women which only slightly offsets the decrease in arrest for men resulting in a decrease overall in arrest rate in the United States. Arrests rates for women had a sizable increase in the following crimes: robbery (+20.2%), larceny-theft (+29.6%), and arson – property crime (+24.7%). The trend results from 2003-2012 showed the vast majority of crimes were still committed by men with around 88% of homicides and 75% of all legal felonies. According to government statistics from the US Department of Justice, male perpetrators constituted 96% of federal prosecution on domestic violence. Another report by the US department of Justice on non-fatal domestic violence from 2003-2012 found that 76 percent of domestic violence was committed against women and 24 percent were committed against men.\n\nAccording to a Canadian Public Health Agency report, the rate of violent crime doubled among male youth during the late 1980s and 1990s, while it almost tripled among female youth. It rose for the latter from 2.2 per 1,000 in 1988 to a peak of 5.6 per 1,000 in 1996, and began to decline in 1999. Some researchers have suggested that the increase on crime statistics could be partly explained by the stricter approach to schoolyard fights and bullying, leading to a criminalization of behaviors now defined as \"assault\" behaviors (while they were simply negatively perceived before). The increase in the proportion of female violent crime would thus be explained more by a change in law enforcement policies than by effective behavior of the population itself. According to the report aforementioned, \"Evidence suggests that aggressive and violent behavior in children is linked to family and social factors, such as social and financial deprivation; harsh and inconsistent parenting; parents' marital problems; family violence, whether between parents, by parents toward children or between siblings; poor parental mental health; physical and sexual abuse; and alcoholism, drug dependency or other substance misuse by parents or other family members.\"\n\nGender statistics Canada by total charged annual crimes (2002):\n\nIn 2013 and 2014, males accounted for 85% of those that have committed legal offenses and sent to provincial and territorial correctional services in Canada. Females account for 15 percent of overall committed legal offenses.\n\nAccording to the data given by the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, worldwide, 78.7% of homicide victims are male, and in 193 of the 202 listed countries or regions, males were more likely to be killed than females. In two, the ratio was 50:50 (Switzerland and British Virgin Islands), and in the remaining 7; Tonga, Iceland, Japan, New Zealand, Republic of Korea, Latvia and Hong Kong, females were more likely to be victims of homicides compared to males. A 2013 global study on homicide by the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime found that males accounted for about 95 percent of all convicted homicide perpetrators worldwide. Also, according to the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, the percent of victims killed by their spouses or ex-spouses in 2011 were 77.4 percent women and 22.6 percent men in selected countries across Europe.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2010327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010327", "title": "New Hampshire Route 103", "text": "New Hampshire Route 103\n\nNew Hampshire Route 103 (abbreviated NH 103) is a east–west highway in west-central New Hampshire, United States. The highway runs from Claremont, at the Vermont border on the Connecticut River, to Hopkinton, west of Concord.\n\nThe western terminus of NH 103 is in Claremont at the New Hampshire–Vermont state line on the Connecticut River, running concurrently with New Hampshire Route 12. After intersecting with New Hampshire Route 12A, the road continues eastward for into the center of Claremont, where NH 103 splits off from NH 12 and merges with New Hampshire Route 11. The highway then runs eastward merged with NH 11 for a distance of . The road splits off from NH 11 east of Newport. Northwest of Hopkinton, the road runs merged with New Hampshire Route 127 for a distance of . The eastern terminus of NH 103 is in Hopkinton at U.S. Route 202 and New Hampshire Route 9.\n\nNew Hampshire Route 103A (abbreviated NH 103A) is a secondary north–south highway in Merrimack County, New Hampshire. NH 103A connects New London with Newbury. NH 103A runs down the entire length of the east side of Lake Sunapee and provides access to the local roads along the lakeshore. NH 103A is locally named Lakeside Road.\n\nThe southern terminus of NH 103A is at New Hampshire Route 103 at the south end of the lake. The northern terminus is at New Hampshire Route 11, Newport Road, at the north end of the lake near Interstate 89.\n\nNew Hampshire Route 103B (abbreviated NH 103B) is a secondary north–south highway located predominantly in Sullivan County (with a small segment in Merrimack County) in western New Hampshire. NH 103B connects Newbury with Sunapee. NH 103B runs along the western shore of Lake Sunapee and provides access to the local roads along the lakeshore. NH 103B is locally named Edgemont Road.\n\nThe southern terminus of NH 103B is at New Hampshire Route 103 on the southwest side of the lake. The road runs north into the village of Sunapee about midway up the west side of the lake. The northern terminus of NH 103B is at the junction with New Hampshire Route 11 in the village center.\n"}
{"id": "2010328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010328", "title": "Dawn of Victory", "text": "Dawn of Victory\n\nDawn of Victory is the third studio album released by Rhapsody in 2000. Like the previous albums, it centers on the story of Algalord and The Emerald Sword Saga. It was produced and engineered by Sascha Paeth and Miro. It is also the first album to feature drummer Alex Holzwarth.\n\nThe album was also made available in a Digipak edition containing a bonus disc with several extra tracks.\n\nThe bonus disc also contained a multimedia track featuring:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2010335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010335", "title": "James Rector", "text": "James Rector\n\nJohn \"James\" Alcorn Rector (June 22, 1884 – March 10, 1949) was an American athlete. He was the first Arkansas-born athlete to compete in the Olympic Games. While competing he was a University of Virginia student and went there to train with Pop Lannigan.\n\nJames Rector was born in Hot Springs, Arkansas. He was the grandson of Arkansas Civil War governor Henry Massey Rector and Mississippi Reconstruction governor James Alcorn.\n\nHe won the silver medal in the 100 metres at the 1908 Summer Olympics, tying the Olympic record for the race (10.8 seconds at the time) during both the qualifying heats and the semifinals. He lost to Reggie Walker in the final, running the race in 10.9 seconds as Walker hit the 10.8 mark for his second time.\n\nRector was not only a track star at Virginia, but was a star of the Virginia baseball and football teams. Rector was a prominent St. Louis, Missouri lawyer for more than thirty years before retiring in Hot Springs.\n\n"}
{"id": "2010340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010340", "title": "GCS Ballpark", "text": "GCS Ballpark\n\nGCS Credit Union Ballpark is a minor league baseball facility in Sauget, Illinois, that serves as the home ballpark for the Gateway Grizzlies of the Frontier League. The Grizzlies' ballpark was built in time for the start of the 2002 season, under the original name of GMC Stadium. GCS Ballpark features reserved box seating, lawn seating, party suites, two hot tubs, and a section of bleacher seating. With the bleacher section added in 2004, the stadium's capacity has increased to 6,000 fans. In 2004, the Grizzlies became the first team in Frontier League history to draw over 200,000 fans for a season, finishing with a league best 217,500. ProGrass synthetic turf was installed at GCS Ballpark in January 2012.\n\nGCS Ballpark hosted the 2008 NCAA Division II Baseball Championship. The stadium also serves as the host for the annual wood-bat college baseball game between the Billikens of Saint Louis University and the Salukis of Southern Illinois University. The ballpark is also home for Webster University and Lindenwood University – Belleville.\n\nGCS Ballpark sells a unique food item called \"Baseball's Best Burger\", a variant of the Luther Burger. It consists of a bacon cheeseburger with a Krispy Kreme Original Glazed doughnut used as a bun. The ballpark and the burger were showcased in a special baseball-themed episode in season 2 of the Travel Channel's \"Man v. Food\". along with their nachos\n\n"}
{"id": "2010342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010342", "title": "The Nasty Boys", "text": "The Nasty Boys\n\nThe Nasty Boys are a professional wrestling tag team consisting of Brian Knobbs and Jerry Sags, active from the mid to late 1980s and throughout the 1990s. Their gimmick was that of anti-social punks who specialized in hardcore wrestling and brawling. They were noted for their distinctive all-black \"street look\", which, while very commonplace among today's wrestlers, was vastly different from the colorful attire of their wrestling peers of the late 1980s and early 1990s. This included graffiti-sprayed T-shirts, chain-adorned leather trenchcoats, and their distinctive mullet-hawk haircuts.\n\nJerry \"Biff\" Sags and Brian \"Buff\" Knobbs were childhood friends (both hailing from Whitehall Township, Pennsylvania) who put themselves together (whereas most tag teams were and still are matched by bookers). They began their careers in the American Wrestling Association in 1985 and began teaming together as The Nasty Boyz in 1986. They first started moving up the cards while in Memphis, as a heel team against the face team of the Midnight Rockers. In 1988, they moved to Florida Championship Wrestling, where they won five Tag Team Championships between 1989 and 1990. While they were in Memphis, Jerry Lawler gave them the idea to change their look (spandex gold tights and long boots), so Sags and Knobbs decided to cover their bodies. They also painted their faces, but they dropped the face paint when wrestling outside of Memphis.\n\nIn 1990, the Nasty Boys joined World Championship Wrestling (WCW). They initially feuded with The Steiner Brothers (Rick and Scott), but were unable to defeat them for the United States Tag Team Championship.\n\nThe Nasty Boys left WCW in December 1990 and joined the World Wrestling Federation (WWF), debuting on the December 29 episode of \"Superstars of Wrestling\". Along with their manager Jimmy Hart, they announced their intention to \"Nastisize the WWF\". After becoming the number one contenders by winning a seven team battle royal on the February 16, 1991 airing of \"Superstars of Wrestling\" (last eliminating the Legion of Doom, thanks to interference from Power and Glory), they defeated The Hart Foundation for the WWF World Tag Team Championship at WrestleMania VII. They held the titles until SummerSlam 1991, when they were defeated by the Legion of Doom in a no disqualification, no countout match. They then feuded with The Rockers and The Bushwhackers, leading to a match at Survivor Series '91 where they teamed with The Beverly Brothers to defeat both teams. In the early part of 1992, The Nasty Boys had a feud with Hacksaw Jim Duggan and Sgt. Slaughter, culminating in an eight-man tag team match at WrestleMania VIII, where Duggan, Slaughter, Big Boss Man and Virgil defeated The Nasty Boys, The Mountie and Repo Man. That fall, they turned face and dumped Jimmy Hart as their manager after Hart overlooked them for a tag team title match against The Natural Disasters, instead giving the title shot to his other tag team of Money Inc. Knobbs and Sags teamed with The Natural Disasters to defeat Money Inc. and The Beverly Brothers at Survivor Series '92, but they were unable to regain the titles.\n\nOn the March 13th, 1993 edition of WWF Superstars it was announced that the Nasty Boys had agreed to step aside and allow Hulk Hogan and Brutus Beefcake to have a one-time title shot against Money Inc. at WrestleMania IX. They then entered a house show series against The Headshrinkers and wrestled to double disqualifications on multiple occasions. Their feud spilled onto WWF television, as they wrestled once more to a double DQ against Fatu & Samu on the Italian version of WWF superstars that saw both teams hitting each other with chairs in a post match brawl. In April 1993, after a European tour, they were suspended, and later fired from the company. Their final television appearance came on May 16, 1993 when they defeated Steve Vega & Barry Horowitz on WWF Superstars.\n\nThe Nasty Boys returned to WCW in July 1993 as heels managed by Missy Hyatt. They defeated Arn Anderson and Paul Roma at Fall Brawl 1993 to become WCW World Tag Team Champions. They would then lose the championship on October 4, to Marcus Alexander Bagwell and 2 Cold Scorpio before regaining it on October 24. In 1994, they fought Cactus Jack and Maxx Payne in a series of wild brawls. They were supposed to feud with Kevin Sullivan and his (kayfabe) dyslexic brother Dave, who called himself Evad (\"Dave\" backwards). Evad, however, injured his knee, and Sullivan convinced Cactus Jack to team with him. The Nasties lost the title to the thrown-together team of Jack and Sullivan in a wild Philly Street Fight at Slamboree 1994.\n\nKnobbs and Sags went on to feud with tag teams such as Harlem Heat and The Blue Bloods. At Slamboree 1995, they defeated Harlem Heat to become three-time WCW Tag Team Champions, but dropped the title back to them soon after. In 1996, the New World Order offered them membership into the nWo, but attacked them as soon as they received their nWo T-shirts. In the subsequent match against Scott Hall and Kevin Nash, Sags became enraged during the contest after being struck on the head. He had thought Hall had struck him with a chair and retaliated by attacking him and knocking his tooth out. After the match, Sags filed a lawsuit. He later saw footage and found out it was Nash that had hit him with a tag belt. He was released from his contract in early 1997 and retired. After Sags release, Knobbs began pursuing the WCW Hardcore Championship.\n\nThe Nasty Boys were briefly reunited in the short-lived XWF and the World Wrestling Council in Puerto Rico. Since retirement the boys have both appeared on \"Hogan Knows Best\" and the WWE Magazine's \"Where are they now?\" section. On November 20, 2007, Brian Knobbs and Jerry Sags reformed at the \"WWE SmackDown\" tapings from Tampa, Florida to wrestle their first WWE match in 14 years. On November 21, 2009, they were involved with the \"\" Australian Tour event in Melbourne, Australia and wrestled and defeated Reno Anoa'i and Vampire Warrior in an Australian Street Fight.\n\nOn January 4, 2010, The Nasty Boys made their debut appearance on Total Nonstop Action Wrestling's television show, \"TNA Impact!\", where they trashed Team 3D's locker room during their absence from the show while in Japan. This initiated a feud, with both teams exchanging physical onslaughts with one another. on the January 14 episode of \"Impact!\", Team 3D returned but were attacked by The Nasty Boys. On the January 21 episode of \"Impact!\" the Nasty Boys competed in their first match for TNA, defeating the team of Eric Young and Kevin Nash. On the January 28 episode of \"Impact!\" the Nasty Boys and Team 3D got into an intense confrontation to hype their upcoming match. on the February 4 episode of \"Impact!\" the Nasty Boys attacked Team 3D after a match until Hernandez and Matt Morgan made the save.\n\nAt Against All Odds The Nasty Boys defeated Team 3D in a tag team match, when Jimmy Hart made his return to the company and interfered in the match on the Nasty Boys' behalf. On the February 25 edition of \"Impact!\" Team 3D defeated the Nasty Boys in a tables match, when Jesse Neal interfered on Team 3D's behalf. The Nasty Boys and Hart continued their feud with Team 3D on the March 15 episode of \"Impact!\" by defeating them and the returning Brother Runt, a replacement for Jesse Neal, whom the Nastys attacked prior to the match, in a six-man tag team match. After the match Neal attacked the Nastys and helped Team 3D put Sags through a table.\n\nOn March 29, 2010, news broke that the Nasty Boys had been released by TNA following an incident at a TNA function with Spike executives present.\n\nThe Nasty Boys have a reputation of being very stiff with their opponents. They have also been involved in ribbing (pranking backstage) other wrestlers and also in several legitimate fights.\n\n"}
{"id": "2010345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010345", "title": "Belgrade Meteorological Station", "text": "Belgrade Meteorological Station\n\nMeteorology was first practiced in Serbia when meteorological data was gathered, monitored and recorded on a daily basis, in 1848, in Belgrade. Daily, meteorological forecasts started in 1892. The first meteorologist was Vladimir Jakšić. \n\nWhile the first meteorological observation post was in a nearby private house, a meteorological observation station (Serbian Meteorološka opservatorija) building was built in 1891 by architect Dimitrije T. Leko, on Vračar's plateau, in Savinac (recognized also as \"Englezovac\", named after Francis Mackenzie).\n\n"}
{"id": "2010360", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010360", "title": "The Super Inframan", "text": "The Super Inframan\n\nThe Super Inframan (, translated literally as Chinese Superman) is a 1975 Hong Kong science fiction action film produced by Shaw Brothers Studio in 1975. Inspired by the huge success of the Japanese tokusatsu franchises such as \"Ultraman\" and \"Kamen Rider\" in Hong Kong, this film features the same type of \"henshin\"/transformation, monster/robot action and costumed heroics, coupled with Chinese kung fu action.\n\nIn 2015, Demon Princess Elzebub (also translated as Princess Dragon Mom) awakens from 10 million years of dormancy and plots to conquer the Earth. She destroys a few major cities in China to prove her power to humanity, who react in shock. Returning to her lair in Inner-Earth, she awakens her army of Skeleton Ghosts and various mutant humanoids to wreak havoc on the surface.\n\nThe head of the Science Headquarters, Professor Liu Ying-de, has completed the BDX Project, a potential countermeasure against Elzebub. In the HQ's secret laboratory, he transforms Lei Ma, a high-ranking SH officer, into the bionic kung fu superhero Inframan. The solar-powered red & silver armored Inframan has both enhanced strength and combat weapons.\nOnce Inframan destroys the princess's various monsters, she decides to steal the professor's blueprints of Inframan in hope of discovering his weakness. Meanwhile, the professor introduces Thunderball Fists, gloves capable of destroying any substance known to man, as well as covering up Inframan's weakness. The princess decides to coerce the professor. Capturing the professor's daughter, the princess blackmails the professor into creating an Inframan for her. The professor agrees to go to Mount Devil for a meeting. When the professor refuses to make another Inframan, he and his daughter are frozen. Inframan and the Science Patrol decide to rescue both which leads to the climatic battle between Inframan and Demon Princess Elzebub.\n\nLei Ma throws his arms into a Kamen Rider-like \"henshin\"/transforming pose, and says:\nHis powers & attacks are (Mandarin/Cantonese):\n\n\n\n\nThe film was directed by Hua Shan, written by science fiction writer Ni Kuang, produced by Runme Shaw and the cinematography was by Tadashi Nishimoto. There was also assistance from Japan, also; Music from \"Ultra Seven\" (1967) and \"Mirrorman\" (1971) (both composed by Toru Fuyuki) is used in this film. And the Inframan/Science Headquarters/monster costumes were provided by Ekisu Productions, which had done costumes for many Toei superhero shows of the same period. The film also starred Danny Lee as the superhero himself, and Bruceploitation star Bruce Le in a supporting role (he still got to display some of his martial arts skills in many scenes of the film).\n\nThe following year, Joseph Brenner brought this film to the US, and retitled it simply Infra-Man (or Inframan), with the advertising campaign slogan \"The Man Beyond Bionics!\" attempting to capitalize upon \"The Six Million Dollar Man\"'s success on American network television at the time.\n\nThis film also has some historical importance as the first superhero film set in Hong Kong, the first film promotion in Hong Kong using a hot air balloon, and the first Shaw Brothers production using a storyboard.\n\nIn 2004, the film was released on DVD in Japan and Hong Kong.\n\nRoger Ebert, on his 7 March 1976 review for the Chicago Sun-Times, gave the film two and a half stars out of four, concluding \"The movie even looks good: It's a classy, slick production by the Shaw Brothers, the Hong Kong kung fu kings. When they stop making movies like \"Infra-Man\", a little light will go out of the world.\"\n\nOn 30 April 1999, after Quentin Tarantino re-released \"Mighty Peking Man\" in North America, Ebert upgraded his rating for the film to three stars, explaining that \"I find to my astonishment that I gave \"Infra-Man\" only two and a half stars when I reviewed it. That was 22 years ago, but a fellow will remember a lot of things you wouldn't think he'd remember. I'll bet a month hasn't gone by since that I haven't thought of that film. I am awarding \"Mighty Peking Man\" three stars, for general goofiness and a certain level of insane genius, but I cannot in good conscience rate it higher than \"Infra-Man\". So, in answer to those correspondents who ask if I have ever changed a rating on a movie: Yes, \"Infra-Man\" moves up to three stars.\" The original review of the film as re-posted on Ebert's website accordingly gives the film three stars.\n\nThe film was released on VHS under both Prism Entertainment and Goodtimes Entertainment. In the Goodtimes Home Video version of the American opening credits, an additional section was added in between the title and the cast & crew from the Prism version, giving the film the subtitle \"Battles The Sci-Fi Monsters\" in an attempt to appeal more to fans of that titular genre. In this additional but misleading sequence, short snippets from the film are used to introduce and inaccurately name the villains of the film with some villain characters cut out entirely.\n\nElements from the film influenced the 2017 revival of \"Mystery Science Theater 3000\". Producer Joel Hodgson explained in an interview that Princess Dragonmon was one of the influences for Mad Scientist Kinga Forrester and that the skeleton-like Henchmen influenced the boneheads, including The Skeleton Crew Band.\n\n"}
{"id": "2010361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010361", "title": "Fort Edgecomb", "text": "Fort Edgecomb\n\nFort Edgecomb, built in 1808–1809, is a two-story octagonal wooden blockhouse with restored fortifications located on Davis Island in the town of Edgecomb, Lincoln County, Maine, United States. It is the centerpiece of the Fort Edgecomb State Historic Site. It was added to the National Register of Historic Places in 1969, with its boundaries increased to create a historic district in 1991.\n\nFort Edgecomb is located on Davis Island, actually a peninsula jutting into the Sheepscot River across from the village center of Wiscasset. Davis Island is separated from the mainland by a short neck, and Fort Edgecomb is located at the island's southern end. Its most prominent feature is an eight-sided blockhouse, whose second floor is larger than its first, measuring compared to . The ground floor walls have loopholes through which muskets could be fired, while the upper level had portholes for firing cannons. Although the blockhouse is the most visible feature, the fort's main armament was a water battery to defend the river. This battery originally had five cannons, including a 50-pounder columbiad and four 18-pounder smoothbore cannons. Each cannon was in its own bastion, with the bastions arranged in three tiers. The blockhouse also had two carronades, which were a relatively short cannon of large bore.\n\nThe fort was built as part of the second system of US fortifications, guarding the then-important port of Wiscasset, then one of the largest shipbuilding centers in New England. A war scare with the British over US trade with France during the Napoleonic Wars sparked the building of these forts, along with Thomas Jefferson's Embargo Act of 1807, which closed US ports and vessels to foreign trade. The fort's construction was supervised by US Army engineer Moses Porter, later commander of the Regiment of Light Artillery. Although the fort was built for defense, its first use (as with most of Maine's second system forts) was to enforce the embargo. This embargo was not popular with Maine's merchants, and it is said that one of two times Fort Edgecomb's cannon were fired was in salute at James Madison's inauguration on 4 March 1809 (or, less tactfully, to celebrate his lifting of Jefferson's embargo). Eventually the War of 1812 broke out. The cannons were also fired on 14 February 1815, when word was received of peace with the British.\n\nDuring the War of 1812, this post saw considerable activity, holding British prisoners of war, many of them brought to Wiscasset harbor by American privateers. In 1814, Fort Edgecomb became an important base in defending against a possible British attack on mid-coast Maine. It remained manned until 1818, and was reactivated during the Civil War.\n\nThe Friends of Fort Edgecomb celebrated its bicentennial on 13 June 2009, on the grounds of the fort.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2010363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010363", "title": "Nonverbal learning disorder", "text": "Nonverbal learning disorder\n\nNonverbal learning disorder (also known as NLD, or NVLD) is a learning disorder characterized by verbal strengths as well as visual-spatial, motor, and social skills difficulties. It is sometimes confused with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder and autism spectrum disorder, and some overlap with these disorders seems to exist. Nonverbal learning disorder has never been included in the American Psychiatric Association's \"Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders\" or the World Health Organization's \"International Classification of Diseases\".\n\nConsidered to be neurologically based, nonverbal learning disorder is characterized by verbal strengths as well as visual-spatial, motor, and social skills difficulties. People with this disorder may not at times comprehend nonverbal cues such as facial expression or tone of voice. Challenges with mathematics and handwriting are common.\n\nLabels for specific associated issues include visual-spatial deficit, dyscalculia, dysgraphia, as well as dyspraxia.\n\nThe DSM-5 (Diagnostic and Statistical Manual) and ICD-10 (International Classification of Diseases) do not include NLD as a diagnosis.\nAssorted diagnoses have been discussed as sharing symptoms with NLD—these conditions include Right hemisphere brain damage and Developmental Right Hemisphere Syndrome, Developmental Coordination Disorder, Social-Emotional Processing Disorder, autism spectrum disorders, Gerstmann syndrome and others.\n\nIn their 1967 book \"Learning Disabilities; Educational Principles and Practices\", Doris J. Johnson and Helmer R. Myklebust characterize how someone with these kinds of disabilities appears in a classroom: \"An example is the child who fails to learn the meaning of the actions of others...We categorize this child as having a deficiency in social perception, meaning that he has an inability which precludes acquiring the significance of basic nonverbal aspects of daily living, though his verbal level of intelligence falls within or above the average.\" (p. 272). In their chapter \"Nonverbal Disorders Of Learning\" (p. 272-306) are sections titled \"Learning Through Pictures,\" (274) \"Gesture,\" (281) \"Nonverbal Motor Learning,\" (282) \"Body Image,\" (285) \"Spatial Orientation,\" (290) \"Right-Left Orientation,\" (292) \"Social Imperception,\" (295) \"Distractibility, Perseveration, and Disinhibition.\" (298)\n\nWhile various nonverbal impairments were recognized since early studies in child neurology, there is ongoing debate as to whether/or the extent to which existing conceptions of NLD provide a valid diagnostic framework. As originally presented \"nonverbal disabilities\" (p. 44) or \"disorders of nonverbal learning\" (p. 272) was a category encompassing non-linguistic learning problems (Johnson and Myklebust, 1967). \"Nonverbal learning disabilities\" were further discussed by Myklebust in 1975 as representing a subtype of learning disability with a range of presentations involving \"mainly visual cognitive processing,\" social imperception, a gap between higher verbal ability and lower performance IQ, as well as difficulty with handwriting. Later neuropsychologist Byron Rourke sought to develop consistent criteria with a theory and model of brain functioning that would establish NLD as a distinct syndrome (1989).\nQuestions remain about how best to frame the perceptual, cognitive and motor issues associated with NLD.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2010371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010371", "title": "Branton Files", "text": "Branton Files\n\nThe Branton Files are a series of documents espousing various conspiracy theories circulated on the internet since at least the mid-1990s. They are most often attributed to Bruce Alan Walton who claims to have been a victim of alien abduction and had contact through \"altered states of consciousness\" with humans \"living in the inner earth\". The files have been characterized as \"high fantasy\" filled with \"complex and convoluted conspiracism\".\n\nEnter the NEXUS"}
{"id": "2010374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010374", "title": "Lockheed P-7", "text": "Lockheed P-7\n\nThe Lockheed P-7 was a four turboprop-engined patrol aircraft ordered by the U.S. Navy as a replacement for the P-3 Orion. The external configuration of the aircraft was to be very similar to that of the P-3. Development had not progressed very much before the program was cancelled in July 1990.\n\nIn the mid-1980s, the U.S. Navy made plans to replace the large number of Lockheed P-3 aircraft which would reach the end of their useful service lives during the 1990s. To limit costs the U.S. Navy envisioned a modified P-3 with increased payload and updated avionics. This aircraft became known as the \"P-3G\" of which 125 should be procured over a period of five years up to 2001. However, the U.S. Navy was unwilling to select Lockheed's P-3G without any competition and issued the final \"Request for Proposals (RFP)\" in January 1987. For the airplane named the P-7A \"LRAACA\" (Long-Range Air ASW-Capable Aircraft), Lockheed's competitors were:\n\n\nIn October 1988, the U.S. Navy announced that Lockheed won the competition, as the company's proposal was significantly cheaper than that of the competitors. The U.S. Defense Acquisition Board (DAB) recommended a full-scale development of the LRAACA on 4 January 1989. The costs were planned to be about $600 million, with a maximum cost limit of $750 million. However, in November 1989, Lockheed announced a cost overrun of $300 million due to the tight schedule and design problems. On 20 July 1990, the U.S. Navy stopped the P-7A program contract for default, \"citing Lockheed's inability to make adequate progress toward completion of all contract phases\". The program was finally cancelled by the DAB in late 1990.\n\nThe P-7 was designed as an enlarged version of the original P-3C. The fuselage, of similar cross-section to that of the P-3, was lengthened by 2.40 m (8 ft), and the wingspan by 2.10 m (7 ft). The wing center section was increased in length, which moved the engines farther away from the fuselage to reduce noise levels in the cabin. The tailplane was increased by about 25% in area, but shortened in height compared to that of the P-3. The P-7A was to be powered by four General Electric T407-GE-400 turboprops with 5-blade propellers.\n\nInitial plans included the Update IV electronics equipment of the P-3C. The cockpit was to be fitted with eight CRT displays and a stowable HUD for weapons delivery. Other equipment included search radar, MAD, decoy flare launchers, electro-optical detector, radar warning receivers, IR suppression on the engine exhausts and laser deflection screens on the windows. The primary submarine detection sensor was to be the sonobuoy, of which 112 were carried internally; 38 more could be stowed for in flight reloading. Another 150 could be carried in 10 underwing pods.\n\nThe design had an internal bomb bay for a maximum of 3,400 kg of weapons and 12 underwing pylons.\n"}
{"id": "2010377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010377", "title": "Kingdom of Butua", "text": "Kingdom of Butua\n\nThe Kingdom of Butua or Butwa (c. 1450 - 1683) was a pre-colonial African state located in what is now southwestern Zimbabwe. Butua was renowned as the source of gold for Arab and Portuguese traders. The region was first mentioned in Portuguese records in 1512.\n\nThe kingdom was governed by the Torwa dynasty until 1683 from its capital at Khami. Its people were ancestors of the Bakalanga. In 1683, the kingdom was conquered by the Rozwi Empire.\n\nThe foundations of the Khami Ruins show a striking resemblance to the pattern of masonry at the base of the Zimbabwe Ruins. Hence the Kalanga are thought to have built Khami, Lusvingo, Mapungugwe and other ruins scattered across western Zimbabwe and east Botswana.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2010378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010378", "title": "New Hampshire Route 104", "text": "New Hampshire Route 104\n\nNew Hampshire Route 104 (abbreviated NH 104) is a secondary east–west highway in central New Hampshire, United States. The highway runs from Danbury to Meredith on Lake Winnipesaukee in the Lakes Region.\n\nThe western terminus of NH 104 is in Danbury at U.S. Route 4. The eastern terminus is at U.S. Route 3 south of the town of Meredith, between Lake Winnipesaukee and Lake Waukewan. NH 104 is locally named the Ragged Mountain Highway between Danbury and Bristol.\n\nUntil the 1970s, NH 104 used the Smith River Road between Danbury and Bristol. This scenic, winding road parallels the Smith River. However it was a frustratingly slow drive as a main highway, so the new overland Ragged Mountain Highway was a welcome replacement route for NH 104, leaving the old Smith River Road as a popular route for recreational access to the river.\n"}
{"id": "2010387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010387", "title": "Jefferson College", "text": "Jefferson College\n\nJefferson College is the name of the following institutions of higher learning:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2010392", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010392", "title": "New Hampshire Route 106", "text": "New Hampshire Route 106\n\nNew Hampshire Route 106 is a secondary north–south highway in Merrimack and Belknap counties in central New Hampshire. It connects the town of Pembroke with Meredith in the Lakes Region.\n\nThe first green LED traffic light in the nation was installed at the junction of NH 106 and Loudon Road on May 17, 1996.\n\nThe southern terminus of NH 106 is at U.S. Route 3 in Pembroke just south of the Concord city line. The northern terminus is also at US 3, south of Meredith.\n\nNew Hampshire Motor Speedway is located on NH 106 in Loudon, approximately north of the interchange with I-393. Because the highway was not designed to handle the heavy traffic flows during the busiest NASCAR events at the speedway, traffic flow on NH 106 is shifted between I-393 and the speedway to ease congestion. Full-width breakdown lanes allow for four total lanes of travel during these events.\n\nLeading up to the events, the road is converted so that there are three northbound travel lanes (both regular travel lanes and the northbound breakdown lane). All southbound traffic uses the southbound breakdown lane.\n\nImmediately following the events, the road is converted to southbound-only traffic. Northbound traffic is detoured onto I-93 northbound to exit 20 and must use NH 140 from Belmont to reach NH 106.\n"}
{"id": "2010397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010397", "title": "New Hampshire Route 107", "text": "New Hampshire Route 107\n\nNew Hampshire Route 107 is a north–south state highway in eastern New Hampshire. It connects Laconia in the Lakes Region with Seabrook on the Atlantic coast. The southern terminus of NH 107 is at U.S. Route 1 in Seabrook near the entrance to Seabrook Station Nuclear Power Plant. The northern terminus is at U.S. Route 3 on the Laconia/Gilford town line.\n\nThe highway is signed north-south, but follows a more southeast-to-northwest alignment. Although the route stretches for almost , NH 107 essentially exists as a series of smaller segments connected by short concurrencies with other routes.\n\nNH 107 between US 3 and Leavitt Road in Laconia is part of the Timberman 70.3 Triathlon bicycle course.\n\nNH 107 begins at US 1 in Seabrook, just north of the Massachusetts state line, and initially travels nearly due west (signed north). The highway interchanges with Interstate 95 to the west then continues west into the town of Kensington. NH 107 crosses NH 150 and traverses the southern part of Kensington before continuing into East Kingston where it meets NH 108. NH 108 turns onto NH 107, sharing pavement briefly before splitting off to the south. Continuing west into Kingston, NH 107 intersects the northern terminus of NH 107A (its only \"child\" route) before meeting NH 111 and NH 125. NH 107 turns north onto NH 111 / NH 125, and the three routes overlap for just over , then NH 111 splits off to the east. NH 107 continues along NH 125 for another before it splits off on its own again.\n\nNH 107 cuts across the southwestern corner of Brentwood, then crosses the Exeter River into Fremont and intersects with NH 111A. The two routes overlap for before NH 111A splits off to the south. NH 107 continues along the river until crossing into Raymond. The highway intersects the eastern terminus of NH 102 before turning due north. NH 107 crosses the Lamprey River and interchanges with NH 101 before intersecting with NH 27 east of downtown. NH 107 turns west onto NH 27, and NH 156, a short connector to Nottingham, splits off to the north. NH 27 and NH 107 continue along the Lamprey River for before splitting in the western end of town. NH 107 turns north to continue along the Lamprey River into the town of Deerfield, where it intersects with NH 43. NH 43 and NH 107 overlap for in Deerfield and split north of the town center. The highway continues northwest into Epsom where it intersects with US 4, US 202 and NH 9 in the eastern end of town. NH 107 turns east to join them, and the four routes run concurrently along the north side of Northwood Lake for , crossing into the town of Northwood along the way. NH 107 splits off and continues northwest into Pittsfield.\n\nNH 107 crosses the town of Pittsfield through windy, hilly terrain before reaching the downtown area. In downtown Pittsfield, the highway turns north and crosses NH 28 before continuing north and crossing into the town of Barnstead. The highway runs briefly through the western corner of the town before continuing northwest into Gilmanton, where it meets the eastern terminus of NH 129, a connector to Loudon to the southwest. NH 107 continues northwest through more hilly terrain for several miles, then crosses NH 140 in the town center. Continuing north, NH 107 traverses the eastern corner of Belmont before entering the city of Laconia.\n\nNH 107 has a partial interchange with the Gilford-Laconia Bypass (US 3 / NH 11); full access is available via NH 106 to the north. NH 107 joins NH 106 northbound into downtown Laconia via South Main Street. NH 106 and NH 107 intersect with NH 11A (unsigned US 3 Business) in the city's center, near the Winnipesaukee River. NH 107 turns onto NH 11A (Union Avenue) for , then NH 11A splits off east towards the US 3 / NH 11 bypass. NH 107 (and US 3 Business) continue north on Union Avenue, paralleling Opechee and Paugus bays before reaching its northern terminus at US 3 (Lake Street/Lake Shore Road) at the Laconia/Gilford line (US 3 Business also ends here).\n\nFrom Laconia to Barnstead, Route 107 is part of the Old Province Road, the first \"farm to market\" road in New Hampshire. Province Road was planned in 1763 to divert crops from being shipped down the Connecticut River from the Haverhill area, then called \"Little Co-os\", and instead have them brought to the Durham area. Province Road began the great era of roadbuilding in New Hampshire, a dream of Governor John Wentworth, which had to wait until the end of the French and Indian Wars.\n\n\nNew Hampshire Route 107A is a long north–south highway in Rockingham County. The southern terminus of the route is at the Massachusetts state line in South Hampton, where South Hampton Road continues unnumbered into Amesbury, Massachusetts. The northern terminus is at NH 107 in Kingston.\n\nNH 107A begins at the Massachusetts border in South Hampton as Main Avenue. The road progresses to the northwest, becoming Burnt Swamp Road at the town line. The name remains the same to an intersection with NH 108, where NH 107A becomes Powwow River Road. In Kingston NH 107A turns to the north a short distance ahead of its northern terminus at NH 107, a few yards east of the junction of NH 107 and NH 111 / NH 125.\n"}
{"id": "2010403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010403", "title": "Realms of Despair", "text": "Realms of Despair\n\nRealms of Despair (RoD) is a MUD hosted in Mississauga, Ontario, Canada using the SMAUG MUD codebase. It is operated by Derek \"Thoric\" Snider.\n\n\"Realms of Despair\" is a medieval fantasy game with various classes and races. It also has several in-game organizations that players may join.\n\n\"Realms of Despair\" was opened to the public in July 1994, launched at the site game.org. It was developed from DikuMUD and allowed modification of operating parameters through the MUD itself rather than having to manually edit configuration files, or even the source code itself. The developed code was released for the MUD community to develop further as SMAUG.\n\n"}
{"id": "2010404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010404", "title": "Jefferson College (Mississippi)", "text": "Jefferson College (Mississippi)\n\nJefferson College, in Washington, Mississippi, was founded as an all-male college but operated primarily as a college preparatory school and later military boarding school during most of its history. Named in honor of Thomas Jefferson, the college was chartered in 1802, but did not begin operation until 1811.\n\nDue to declining enrollment and financial difficulties, the facility closed in 1964. The historic campus was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1970, and was designated a Mississippi Landmark in 1985. The site is operated as an historic museum and park.\n\nChartered on May 13, 1802, by the General Assembly of the Mississippi Territory, Jefferson College was the first institution of higher learning in Mississippi. It opened in 1811 with 15 students, as a preparatory school, under the name Washington Academy—a one-room, wood-frame structure, built on the college property. By 1817, the institution had become a fully developed college. The first permanent buildings, constructed of brick, were completed in 1820. By 1840, Jefferson College offered the degrees of Bachelor of Arts and Master of Arts.\n\nDuring the American Civil War, Jefferson College was closed. After the end of the war, the buildings were used by the Freedmen's Bureau to aid transition to a society of free labor. In November 1865, the school's Board of Trustees regained control of the facility. The institution reopened in 1866 as a preparatory school and continued as such until it closed in 1964.\n\nBetween 1872 and 1911, under the tenure of Superintendent J.S. Raymond, the college had its longest interval of stable governance, with increased enrollment. By 1893, the institution had been reorganized as a military school, taking the name Jefferson Military College. Instruction was entirely secondary education. Early in the 20th century, dormitories were built to accommodate more recruits. By the late 1930s, enrollment had increased to about 100 students.\n\nFollowing World War II, declining student enrollment, low tuition, and lack of external funding caused financial hardship for Jefferson College. After 150 years of operation and unable to pay its debts, the facility closed in May 1964. In 1965, all buildings and lands owned by Jefferson College were conveyed to the State of Mississippi in exchange for discharging the school's debts.\n\nIn 1971, Jefferson College was placed under administrative control of the Mississippi Department of Archives and History (MDAH). Detailed plans were developed for preserving the historic buildings, and restoration work began in the mid-1970s. In 1977, Jefferson College was opened to the public as a State Historic Site.\n\nThree buildings, constructed during the 19th century, are contributing resources for the Jefferson College National Historic District:\n\n\nJefferson College campus includes five other historic buildings constructed during the 19th and 20th centuries:\n\nIn January 1807, acting Governor Cowles Mead of the Mississippi Territory suspected Aaron Burr of a conspiracy to separate regions of Mississippi and Louisiana from the United States and ordered the territorial militia to capture Burr to stand trial for treason. In February 1807, a grand jury convened on the grounds of Jefferson College and found Burr not guilty of any crime or misdemeanor against the United States.\n\nBetween 1802 and 1817, Washington, Mississippi, was the capital of the Mississippi Territory, and the General Assembly of the territory often met in a tavern, known as Assembly Hall, which was located adjacent to Jefferson College. Assembly Hall was destroyed by fire in 1993.\n\nBetween July 7 and August 17, 1817, the Mississippi Statehood Convention was held in a Methodist church on property adjacent to Jefferson College. Over time, the church building deteriorated and was no longer standing by the mid-1870s.\n\n\nAs a historic site, several buildings are open to the public. These include the West Wing, the kitchen buildings, and Prospere Hall. The T.J. Foster Nature Trails wind though an old-growth hardwood forest over distances of to .\n\nJefferson College was a location site for the films:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2010407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010407", "title": "San Miguel District, Lima", "text": "San Miguel District, Lima\n\nSan Miguel is one of the 43 districts that are part of the Lima province and is part of the urban area of Lima, Peru. It is bordered by the districts of Bellavista and downtown Lima on the north; Pueblo Libre, Magdalena del Mar and downtown Lima on the east; the Pacific Ocean on the south; and the La Perla district on the west. It is located 20 to 30 min from the airport (depending on the traffic).\n\nIts main avenues – La Marina, Universitaria and Elmer Faucett – are important economic centres. Plaza San Miguel mall, some hypermarkets and department stores are located in the intersection of La Marina and Universitaria. The Pontifical Catholic University of Peru, the Plaza San Miguel and the Parque de las Leyendas, Lima's main zoo, are located in this district.\n\nIts current mayor is Juan José Guevara \n\nThe weather in San Miguel is moderately different from the other districts: it's often windy, cloudy and has lower temperature.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2010420", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010420", "title": "Jewellery Quarter", "text": "Jewellery Quarter\n\nThe Jewellery Quarter is an area of central Birmingham, UK, in the north-western area of Birmingham City Centre, with a population of around 19,000 people in a area.\n\nThe Jewellery Quarter is Europe's largest concentration of businesses involved in the jewellery trade, which produces 40% of all the jewellery made in the UK. It is also home to the world's largest Assay Office, which hallmarks around 12 million items a year. Historically the Jewellery Quarter has been the birthplace of many pioneering advancements in industrial technology.\n\nAt its peak in the early 1900s the Jewellery Quarter employed over 30,000 people, however due to foreign competition and lack of demand, the industry declined throughout the 20th century. The area is now being transformed into an urban village and hub for creative businesses, whilst maintaining its urban fabric. Its historical importance has led to numerous conservation schemes and it is an Anchor Point of the European Route of Industrial Heritage.\n\nA survey of 1553 named one of the first goldsmiths of Birmingham, Roger Pemberton. During the 18th and 19th centuries, Birmingham prospered from the Industrial Revolution and developed into a large industrial town, manufacturing a vast range of products, often from various metals. Many large foundries and glassworks attracted workers from all areas of Britain. A considerable trade developed in the manufacture of gilt buttons, cap badges, pins and small metal toys.\n\nAccording to the Birmingham Directory of 1780, there were 26 jewellers at the time. Because the definition of a jeweller was not explained in the directory, it is thought that it may contain many irregularities and the number of actual jewellers may be lower. It is thought that by the start of the 19th century, there were around 12 jewellery manufacturing companies, employing approximately 400 people.\n\nIn 1746, the Colmore family released land on what is known as the Jewellery Quarter today to help satisfy the demands of an increasing population. The largest tract of land was Newhall which had been purchased from the Manor of Birmingham by William Colmore. In 1560, it was described as a rabbit warren and by 1620, New Hall Manor had been constructed on the site. The large manor house gave its name to the area. By 1746, the Colmore family had moved out and let the manor to tenants. Beyond this, there were enclosed fields leading to Birmingham Heath. Sandpits were located on Hockley Hill and the product of these pits was used for moulds which were used in the local metal casting industry.\n\nThe area was crossed by three roads. The road from Wednesbury and Wolverhampton, which now consists of Constitution Hill, Great Hampton Street and Hockley Hill, was turnpiked in 1727. This was followed by the turnpiking of the road to Dudley, consisting of Summer Row, Parade and Summer Hill Road, in 1760 when Summer Row was cut to provide a better route into the town. Both roads were heavily used by traders and carriages transporting raw materials from Staffordshire into Birmingham. The completion of the Birmingham Canal in 1769 led to the improvement of these roads. Warstone Lane, now Warstone Lane, Hall Street and part of Icknield Street, connected the Wolverhampton road to the Dudley road. Ladywood Road, which is now Ladywood Middleway, was also connected to the area as a result of Warstone Lane.\n\nThe demand for houses declined briefly in the 1750s and began to increase again in 1759. Additional streets were laid out between Colmore Row and the Great Charles Street Queensway area in the 1760s. The plots in the Great Charles Street area were first let in 1760. Demand for the land was further stimulated by the completion of the Newhall Branch Canal in 1772 and by the end of the 1770s, almost all of the Great Charles Street and Lionel Street area had been built up. Construction of houses continued up into the area now known as the Jewellery Quarter and it became a wealthy residential area consisting of upmarket Georgian houses. It was particularly stimulated by the donation of of land by Charles Colmore for the construction of a church.\n\nConstruction of St Paul's Church, designed by Roger Eykyn, and the surrounding St Paul's Square commenced in 1777 and was completed in 1779. Georgian houses aimed at the prosperous middle class were constructed around the square, some of which survive such as Nos 12–14, which are Grade II listed, on the eastern side of the square. A plan of Birmingham by Thomas Hanson in 1778 shows that most of the Newhall estate had been laid out in a grid-like pattern from St Paul's Church. The plan also showed that two pools, Great and Little Pool, had been filled in and the brook that fed them had been canalised. However, New Hall still blocked further development down Newhall Street. In the early 1770s, Matthew Boulton had been using the premises partially as a warehouse and when plans for its demolition were aired, he resisted them. However, the house was demolished in 1787 with only the barn left standing until Boulton's new warehouse was completed on Livery Street in 1788.\nSuch villas that were constructed in the area in the late 18th century included Regent's Place, built in the 1770s. This was leased by Matthew Boulton to James Watt and appears to be the earliest villa in the area. Watt stayed there from 1775 till 1790, before moving to Heathfield House in Handsworth. Key Hill House was constructed in the 1780s on Key Hill for Joshua Glover, a local merchant. In 1784, Sir Thomas Gooch leased out an estate on the northern side of Warstone Lane. Forrest's Brewery and two semi-detached houses were constructed on the plot. These houses were occupied by the owners of the brewery. On land owned by Samuel Lloyd and Edward Harford on the northeast side of Great Hampton Street, houses were constructed from the late 1780s. The land had been owned by Richard Parkes, an ironmaster from Wednesbury, from 1713 until it was passed to Lloyd and Harford. In 1750, Henry Carver purchased land on Summer Hill and in 1790 construction of a terrace of 15 houses commenced.\n\nDespite the residential composition of the area, manufacturing businesses were starting to establish a presence there. The growth of industry into this area was aided by the establishment of the Birmingham Assay Office in 1773, which was petitioned for by Boulton and other industrialists. The Birmingham and Fazeley Canal was constructed through the south of the area and was completed in 1789, providing a better form of transportation for goods manufactured in the area and the delivery of materials to the area.\n\nUpon the completion of the canal, Newhall Street was extended towards it. As the middle classes moved out the area, large factories and workshops were constructed in their place for the goldsmiths and silversmiths. The main gold products being produced at the time were keys, seals and watch chains whilst silversmiths manufactured buckles and comb ornaments using imitation stones. Despite buckles going out of fashion in society, the industry prospered. Jewellery was produced mainly in small workshops, contrasting with the large factories and mills that were constructed in England at the time.\n\nThe Colmore family realised the potential that came about as a result of the construction of the canals and in 1809, Caroline Colmore had a canal arm constructed from the Birmingham and Fazeley Canal to a basin off George Street to promote industrial development in the area. This was known as Miss Colmore's Canal, although was later named Whitmore's Arm.\n\nThe number of jewellers in the area reduced significantly in the 1820s as a result of economic problems in the 1820s and many jewellers were made redundant as firms decreased in size to survive. The effects were felt for the following ten years and Hockley only developed as a distinct \"quarter\" at the centre of the city's jewellery industry after the mid-1830s.\n\nThe Jewellery Quarter's output surpassed that of the jewellery trade in nearby Derby and the products manufactured in the Quarter also improved in quality. The jewellery trade in Edinburgh also declined and by the end of the 19th century, the middle classes in London depended more on the supply of jewellery from Birmingham than from their own city. It is believed that by 1850, half of the gold and silverware products on sale in London jewellery shops had been produced in Birmingham, although there is no definitive data as many shopowners would not voluntarily admit where the product was manufactured. The Quarter made a large proportion of the British Empire's fine jewellery. Most jewellers still worked in small workshops that would employ between five and fifty people. Nine out of ten master jewellers were originally workmen.\n\nThe fact that many jewellers lived alongside their workshops meant that public facilities had to be provided. In 1835, the Key Hill Cemetery (then called the General Cemetery) was opened for burial on Key Hill on land that had once been used as gardens and a sandpit. The owners continued to remove the sand until the 1930s as it was in such high demand and was of high quality. The cemetery was open to all, however, there was still pressure for an Anglican burial ground and in 1845, the Church of England Cemetery Company was established. In 1848, the company bought land used for sandpits and gardens from the Gooch and Vyse estates for use as a cemetery. The General Cemetery continued to expand and in the cemetery companies bought land north of Pitsford Street from the Vyse estate for expansion. However, this land was sold to the railway company in 1854. The General Cemetery again expanded in the 1890s northwards. The company purchased the site of Key Hill House, which had been demolished for the extraction of sand. This period was the time when such iconic characters were running business like Alfred Jerrold Nathan who was word famous about his pipe mounts which were mainly made from silver and rarely from butterscotch amber \n\nThe Birmingham and Staffordshire Gas Light Company was established in 1825 and they lit Great Hampton Street in 1836. In 1832, the company started offering piped gas and, by 1840, all jewellers had a supply of gas to their blowpipes.\n\nIn 1824, William Elliot set up a works on the corner of Frederick Street and Regents Street for the manufacture of buttons. In 1837, he patented a method of manufacturing cloth-covered buttons and built a factory to the rear of his works which extended to Vittoria Street. This was one of many purpose-built factories with others including the Victoria Works on Graham Street, which was built between 1839 and 1840 by Joseph Gillott for the mass production of steel pen nibs.\n\nOn 28 May 1845, a party of jewellery representatives was sent from Birmingham to Buckingham Palace with the intention of persuading Queen Victoria to wear British made jewellery for the purpose of promoting it, and a meeting took place with the Royal couple. The group gave the Queen and the Prince an armlet, a brooch, a pair of ear-rings, a waist buckle, a watch-chain, a seal and key, together valued at over 400 guineas. All products were manufactured by Thomas Aston of Regent's Place and Mr. Baleny of St Paul's Square. The party claimed that 5,000 families were dependent on the jewellery trades in Birmingham.\n\nIn 1846, Vyse Street was constructed by Richard Howard-Vyse. Hylton Street was then cut to the north. Branston, Spencer and Hockley Street were all extended from the Inge estate to Vyse Street and Pitsford Street on the Vyse estate. This layout was intended to produce as many building plots as possible.\nBy the mid-19th century, the jewellery trade was considered the most lucrative in the city with jewellers being some of the best paid workers in the city. There were also more people employed in the trade than any other in the city. Boys were given apprenticeships at the age of 14 and earned four shillings on average. This would increase annually until they were 21 where would work from 8am till 7pm. Although, it was common for jewellers to work overtime. Apprentices generally did not require any qualifications but style became a study within the industry and one jeweller's firm required all apprentices to attend the Birmingham School of Art. Families generally were not employed in the trade due to the cleanliness and careful manipulations needed in the crafting of certain pieces. Most families earned income as a result of the trade by producing leather or paper boxes which were used extensively by jewellers to protect finishes articles.\n\nBy 1861, 7,500 were employed in the jewellery trade and by 1880, there were nearly 700 workshops listed in a local directory. The trade benefited greatly from the declining price of raw gold, from the 1880s onwards. It also benefited from the development and refinement of new processes such as electroplating which was invented by George Elkington at the Elkington Silver Electroplating Works on Newhall Street. Also invented in the Jewellery Quarter was the first man-made plastic, Parkesine, by Alexander Parkes in 1862.\n\nIn 1883, less than half of all silver jewellery made in Birmingham was of high enough standard to pass through Birmingham Assay Office. However, in the same year no less than 30 tons 17 cwt 4 lb 4 oz (32,363 kg) of silver jewellery and 3 tons 7 cwt 12 lb 3 oz (3,409.3 kg) of gold items were received bringing the total number of articles sent in for assaying that year to over 2.6 million.\n\nIn 1885, Thomas Harman and Walter Showell wrote their \"Showell's Dictionary of Birmingham\" in which they document that at the time of writing the book, the trade was experiencing a downturn in business and that thousands of workers were surviving on part-time hours with many finding themselves unemployed. This depression was felt nationwide and lasted throughout the 1880s. Many manufacturers went out of business during that period and showed to manufacturers after a long period of growth and prosperity that the trade was susceptible to economic problems.\n\nFollowing the economic problems, traders and jewellers in the Jewellery Quarter created numerous initiatives for the area such as the establishment of the Birmingham Jewellers' and Silversmiths' Association (predecessor to the British Jewellery, Giftware and Finishing Federation) in 1887. Also, in 1890, a School of Jewellery and Silversmithing was established in a converted factory on Vittoria Street as a branch of the School of Art.\n\nMoving into the 20th century, the Jewellery Quarter benefited from the actions of the initiatives set up for jewellers and the industry grew to a size it had not witnessed. It reached a peak in 1914 with over 20,000 people being employed in the trade in the area. The suppliers of precious stones, tools and packaging also benefited. Throughout the growth, the Jewellery Quarter maintained its composition of small workshops with the larger factories being located on the northern fringe, producing lower quality jewellery. The lack of space meant that courts of worker's properties were being taken up by business owners to expand their businesses.\n\nThe Jewellery Quarter continued to thrive through World War I as demand for military buttons, badges and medals increased. However, at the end of the war, the demand plummeted and the jewellers also witnessed a change in fashion in society.\n\nThe demand for the products manufactured in the Jewellery Quarter peaked in 1920 and a steady decline started. The Quarter was hard hit by the Great Depression and struggled to recover after. Some companies constructed large factories as they tried to diversify their businesses. In World War II, manufacture turned again to munitions and this led to the Jewellery Quarter becoming a target of bombing raids by the Luftwaffe in the Birmingham Blitz. Like the rest of Birmingham, this brought a lot of damage to the Jewellery Quarter. St Paul's Church was damaged and was repaired between 1949 and 1951 to a design by J. B. Surman. In November 1940, Thomas Walker plc's 1934 factory in St Paul's Square was destroyed but rebuilt 18 months later.\n\nIn 1943, the Birmingham Jewellers' and Silversmiths' Association created a committee to discuss the regeneration of the industry in the Quarter. As many of the buildings were considered inappropriate for use, it was proposed by the BJSA in 1945 for the redevelopment of the area into flatted factories. Despite being accepted, the plan was not implemented. Following the war, the Quarter witnessed a slight recovery which was again hindered by the lack of space. In 1948, it was reported that the larger factories on the northern fringe of the Quarter were experiencing a decline in manufacturing whilst those in the centre were witnessing the opposite. Larger firms moved out of the area in the 1950s and 1960s to new sites elsewhere in the city. Some development did take place, such as the clearing of court housing around Pope Street, Carver Street and Camden Street.\nA City Council survey in 1953 concluded that of land was beyond repair. In 1956, the council produced their own plans for the redevelopment of the area to consolidate non-industrial activities such as retail into well-defined areas. However, they were met with opposition as they took no consideration of the importance of the small tradesmen that were vital to the area. In 1960, Sir Richard Vyse produced a plan for his Hockley estate, however, he died before the plan could be carried out. In 1963, the council agreed to buy the freehold of of the Vyse estate for £650,000. In 1965, a council scheme for the redevelopment of the area was approved for completion in 1972.\n\nThe proposals included an eight-storey flatted factory and 16 workshops with car parking above them as well as a new Assay Office, School of Jewellery, exhibition hall, restaurant, office block and shop. The flatted factory, known as the Dockley Centre (now the Big Peg), was completed in 1971. The workshops with the car parking space was completed in 1978 to the north of this. The scheme was not a success as there were complaints over the higher rent prices and many of the 150 firms that were displaced by the development moved elsewhere in the Quarter. As a result, the council abandoned the plan to progress further with the development and said there would be no more large scale redevelopment in the area.\n\nAnother development pioneered by the council was Sir Herbert Manzoni's Inner Ring Road and Middle Ring Road. The Inner Ring Road split the Newhall Street through a road widening scheme at Great Charles Street. Whilst the Ring Road had no major effect on the core of the Jewellery Quarter, the immediate land adjacent to the Queensway was bought up by large businesses who constructed large office blocks alongside the road. The Middle Ring Road bounded the Jewellery Quarter to the west and to the north and severely restricted the expansion of the Jewellery Quarter in the postwar years.\n\nThe industry has continued to decline although has remained throughout the postwar years. This has been a result of lack of demand combined with foreign competition. In 1965, 8,000 people were employed in 900 firms but by 1985, this had reduced to 4,000 people in 600 firms. The average life of a firm in the 1980s was 2.8 years which meant that the leasing of space in flatted factories was impractical. A report by consultants Segal Quince Wickstead noted that since 1981, the council had provided a lot of support for businesses in the area and improved the environment.\n\nSchemes to regenerate the area have been implemented such as the designation of Industrial Improvement Area and grants being awarded by English Heritage for the repair of historic buildings. Over 300 buildings were upgraded, leading to private expenditure of over £6 million. In 1987, many more physical changes were realised such as the completion of the first new housing in the area for a century, as well as the opening of a wine bar. A housing association converted a warehouse in St Paul's Square into flats. Anvic House was refurbished into workshops whilst one firm converted their premises into an advertising agency. However, by 1998, over 45% of the industrial establishments were vacant and only 12% of the area was occupied by families.\n\nOn 5 November 1998, the Jewellery Quarter Urban Village Framework Plan was adopted to use mixed-use development to promote regeneration in the area and establish a community. The Urban Village Framework Plan was produced by a team of consultants led by EDAW Ltd. who were commissioned by Birmingham City Council, Urban Villages Forum and English Partnerships in November 1997.\n\nThe plan recommended that the council work with English Partnerships and the local businesses in the area. As a result of the recommendations, the Jewellery Quarter Urban Village Regeneration Partnership was created with the partners being:\n\nThe Partnership meet twice a year to discuss progress made under their 'Charter of Renaissance'. The aim is to transform the area into a hub for creative businesses along with facilities for people to live there. One of the initiatives being used in the area for creative businesses is the loaning of free display cabinets to businesses. However, residents and employees in the Quarter have criticised the council's lack of progress in developing the Jewellery Quarter into a hub for creative businesses.\n\nIn April 2003, the neighbourhood forum published a manifesto named \"Time To Polish The Gem\" in an attempt to draw attention to the issue. Manufacturers in the area have also complained that the rise in rents have made it difficult for them to remain. These complaints were published by the Jewellery Quarter Association Inc.\n\nThe historical importance of the Jewellery Quarter was recognised by Birmingham City Council and English Heritage in the 1970s. In 1971, four years after the Civic Amenities Act which allowed the designation of conservation areas, St Paul's Square Conservation Area was created. It was recognised as Birmingham's last remaining Georgian square and an example of late 18th-century urban planning in Birmingham. In 1975, it was extended to include the Assay Office on Newhall Street. In 1980, the Jewellery Quarter Conservation Area and the Key Hill Conservation Area were designated. The St Paul's Square Conservation Area was extended in 1992 to take in the blocks around the square and approach from Ludgate Hill. The Key Hill Conservation Area was extended in 1994 and the Jewellery Quarter Conservation Area in 2000.\n\nIn 1998, English Heritage undertook a survey of the entire Jewellery Quarter by documenting all the buildings in the area. They published a report, \"The Birmingham Jewellery Quarter Urban Village. An Architectural Survey of the Manufacturies 1760-1999\", in September 1999 which concluded that the Jewellery Quarter is a historic industrial area with international significance. As a result of the report, the three conservation areas were merged to form the new Jewellery Quarter Conservation Area in September 2000. Birmingham City Council and English Heritage agreed to jointly fund a Character Appraisal and Management Plan. Also as a result of the report, a recommendation for the statutory listing of 106 buildings was made which was approved by the Heritage Minister Andrew McIntosh in 2004. Two were Grade II* listed while the remaining 104 received Grade II listed status.\n\nIn 2000, Sir Neil Cossons announced that the Newman Brothers Coffin Furniture Factory would be given Grade II* listed status. The coffin factory was a candidate in Restoration (2003 BBCTV series), however did not receive enough votes to enter into the finals. The coffin factory was purchased by Advantage West Midlands in April 2003 and plans are being made to convert it into a museum, paid for by refurbishing part of the building into offices and letting it out tenants. As of 28 October 2014, Newman Brothers Coffin Furniture Factory opened as a museum under the Birmingham Conservation Trust and was renamed Newman Brothers at The Coffin Works.\n\nIn January 2008, a council report recommended plans to submit a bid for the Jewellery Quarter to receive World Heritage Site status. The area would have to be recommended to the Government.\n\nBirmingham City Council's plan to develop the Jewellery Quarter into a hub for creative businesses has attracted significant amounts of private investment into the Quarter in recent years. Numerous proposals have been proposed and approved for mixed-use schemes in the area. Due to being a conservation area, many schemes involve the refurbishment of existing buildings although there are many new-build projects as well.\n\nOne of the largest developments proposed for the Jewellery Quarter is the redevelopment of the A. E. Harris premises on Northwood Street. To be developed by A. E. Harris, a sheet metal manufacturing firm, and designed by John Simpson & Partners, the initial scheme involved the demolition of the existing A. E. Harris engineering sheds to make way for 211 residential units, of retail and restaurant facilities, a medical centre and an art gallery, of new B1 space, one third of which is affordable workshop space designed to maintain and promote jewellery-related activities within the area.\n\nThe current scheme now contains 151 apartments. The design involves the retention of a Grade II listed building as well as two other buildings which are important to the local history and townscape. To maintain the fabric of the Jewellery Quarter, several new streets and lanes are being created as part of the scheme.\n\nThe scheme is being undertaken by the firm in an attempt to safeguard the company's future as it is being hit by competition in the Far East. The money generated as a result of the proposal will be invested in the creation of new industrial premises for A. E. Harris, who are now in partnership with Advantage West Midlands. The scheme was initially rejected by councillors in 2005 due to the design of a proposed seven-storey office building within the scheme. However, the revised scheme was submitted in 2006 and received outline planning permission in 2008, despite strong objections from conservation societies who were worried that the scheme would increase land values in the immediate area by 900%, forcing out businesses. There was also anger towards the number of residential units proposed as part of the development.\nAnother major proposal for the area is Newhall Square, which consists of a mixture of apartments, retail units, office space and a Travelodge hotel. It is being constructed on the former site of the Museum of Science and Industry, which closed in 1997. When the museum closed, the site, owned by the City Council, became surplus to requirements and was marketed for disposal in 2001. In January 2002, a Development Brief was adopted as Supplementary Planning Guidance to provide prospective developers with information on how to develop the site appropriately.\n\nFollowing the publishing of the Development Brief, bids were made by developers for the site and a shortlisting process began. On 9 December 2002, RO St Bernard's Ltd were selected as the preferred developers for the site. A planning application for the site was submitted in 2005 and was approved in March 2006. The development on the site is estimated to cost £63 million and will centre around a piazza. There will be 234 apartments, although 140 of these will be included in the 'Jewellery Box' phase of the development which was designed by Associated Architects. The Jewellery Box will also consist of of office space, as well as retail units and arts/exhibition space alongside the 100 bedroom Travelodge hotel. The Whitmore Warehouse in the centre of the site and 144 Newhall Street will converted as part of the scheme. Demolition of the site commenced in September 2006 and constructed started in late 2007. Of the buildings that were demolished was the James Watt building which housed the oldest working steam engine in the world built by James Watt.\nSt Paul's Square is becoming central to development schemes in the Jewellery Quarter. One major development overlooking the square is the £35 million St Paul's Place scheme by Chord Developments. It is a mixed-use development consisting of 148 apartments, including a range of studio, one and two bedroom apartments, plus three penthouses, and of office space. It was designed by a team within Chord Developments and the construction work is being carried out by Costains. Chord has spent more than three years developing the scheme, which includes the restoration of the facade of the Thomas Walker building, the former buckle maker, which fronts onto St Paul's Square. Chord has created two courtyards and added three new wings to the former factory, on Northwood Street, Caroline Street and James Street. The new build extensions have been built in red brick to reflect the original building.\n\nAt the heart of the development is a communal courtyard, designed by award-winning landscape architect Alan Gardner. Chord Developments also gave £60,000 towards the improvement of the lighting in the square and installation of CCTV. Another scheme by Chord Developments in the Jewellery Quarter is JQ One which is a smaller development consisting of 43 apartments, one of which behind a two-storey penthouse apartment. JQ One is located on the junction of Newhall Street and George Street.\n\nA smaller development is the refurbishment of the Chamberlain Building, which overlooks the Chamberlain Clock. It has received a major facelift by MCD Property as Tesco, William Hill and Subway have signed up for the ground floor. The two floors above were refurbished to provide approximately of office space. Another small development is Spencer Point on Spencer Street which has been designed and is being constructed by PCPT Architects, who will move into the building when it is completed. There will also be 13 residential units and the building is to become one of the most eco-friendly buildings in the Jewellery Quarter when completed. It is due for completion in late 2008.\nOn the fringe of the Jewellery Quarter is the St Georges development which is being built by developer Chord Deeley. Covering an area of , it is the largest scheme proposed for the Jewellery Quarter. The site is bounded by Icknield Street, Camden Street and Carver Street and incorporating Pope Street and Moreton Street. It has been masterplanned by Urban Initiatives and will include 695 apartments, eight live/work spaces, of offices, of bars and restaurants, of retail, plus a 237 space multi-storey car park, in seven blocks.\n\nAlso within the scheme are two hotels, including a £15 million Ramada Encore hotel with 151 rooms on the corner of Icknield Street and Pope Street. The second hotel will contain 100 rooms. Alfred McAlpine and New World Leisure have been appointed by Chord Deeley to develop and operate the hotels in a joint venture. Most of the buildings on the site are derelict and in a poor state of repair and whilst none of them are listed, the Kettleworks, the former Swan kitchenware factory which dates back to 1890, is to be retained. Work began in summer 2008 on the first phase and the entire scheme is expected to be completed in 2012. It is estimated to cost £130 million and is hoped that between 1,500-2,500 jobs will be created as a result.\n\nAlso on the fringe of the Jewellery Quarter is the Birmingham Mint redevelopment by Junared Property Group. When the Mint closed in 2003, work got underway to find an alternative use for the site. Demolition work on the site commenced in early 2007 and construction in September 2007. The scheme has been designed by Ian Darby Partnership and is being developed in two phases. Phase 1 will include 192 apartments and approximately of offices whilst Phase 2 will consist of 62 apartments and a data centre is now in the planning stage. Ninex are constructing the complex. As part of the scheme, the Grade II listed façade and the chimney are being retained and incorporated.\n\nThe area rests on Bunter upper mottled sandstone from the Triassic period. These sands were very useful in the manufacture of moulds, which were extensively used in the metal working industries in Birmingham. Much of the rest of the city centre lies on Keuper sandstone, which is better suited for foundry work. The conservation area sits on a flat-topped hill, orientated north–south. The land falls steeply west towards Icknield Street and southeast to the Birmingham and Fazeley Canal. It rises southeast from the canal to Great Charles Street Queensway. The highest point is located on Warstone Lane.\n\nThere were two pools within the Jewellery Quarter before the 19th century. The largest was Great Hockley Pool and the other was Little Hockley Pool, which was located on what is the site of Hockley railway station. Little Hockley Pool was filled in after 1834 whilst Great Hockley Pool was drained in 1869.\n\nIn April 2008, the Jewellery Quarter was mentioned as being at risk of flooding by Gareth Morgan, an environment expert at the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors, due to the rising water table in the city and its location adjacent to Birmingham's canal network. The rising water table is partly a result of the loss of heavy industry which used to remove large quantities of water.\n\nAs well as being an industrial area, the Jewellery Quarter has become a tourist attraction itself as many of the workshops retain their 19th-century appearance.\n\nBirmingham City Council first recognised the importance of tourism in raising the profile of the Jewellery Quarter in the 1980s. Studies were commissioned on the industry and potential for tourism in the area. These were put together into a strategy which included aims such as improving views in the area, established a museum and a trade centre to rival Germany and Italy. This was accepted, except the trade centre proposal. The first things to be implemented were the refurbishment Vyse Street car park and the improvement in street parking provisions. Former derelict sites were turned into surface car parks. The existing street furniture was improved whilst necessary additions were made. To influence the quality of design for future shops, a shopfront design guide was prepared by the council for the area. There were also plans for an arcade and gateways into the Jewellery Quarter, but these were abandoned in the 1990s due to a lack of available finances.\n\nThe city council also launched a series of initiatives aimed at promoting the Jewellery Quarter and raising the awareness of the location of the Quarter amongst the general public. Articles were published in local and national newspapers and magazines such as British Airways' own magazine \"Airtime\". The council produced 200,000 leaflets in conjunction with Centro called \"How to find the Jewellery Quarter\" which were distributed through a range of outlets.\n\nManufacturers were approached to allow members of the public to enter their premises and see products be manufactured in the Quarter. Many accepted and a 'Factory Tours' pack was published for the public. Retailers were also approached to assist in the publication of a prestigious shopping guide along with World Gold Guides. However, despite promises that over one million of the guides would published and distributed around the world, nothing was ever produced.\nThe plan for gateways into the Jewellery Quarter was revived at the turn of the 21st century and three metal sculptures designed by Anuradha Patel, a local freelance artist, were unveiled on lamp posts at strategic location on Hall Street with Great Hampton Street, Newhall Street with Lionel Street, and Vyse Street with Great Hampton Street on 13 February 2003. The sculptures themselves were manufactured in the Jewellery Quarter by Form Fabrications (Birmingham) Limited. They are made from a variety of steel tubes and rods, which are rolled, bent and then welded together.\nThe Museum of the Jewellery Quarter came about as a result of the strategy. It was created when the Smith & Pepper jewellery firm on Vyse Street closed their doors in 1981, leaving all the contents in the building. It is now a branch of the Birmingham Museum & Art Gallery and in 2008, TripAdvisor named it as the third best free tourist attraction in Europe, behind the Pantheon in Rome and the National Gallery in London.\n\nThere are also a variety of art galleries. The Royal Birmingham Society of Artists is a historic society of artists who moved to an art gallery in St Paul's Square in 2000. St. Paul's Gallery is the largest commercial art gallery outside London and opened in February 2003.\n\nThere are also two trails through the Jewellery Quarter that were created by the city council. The Findings Trail was designed by Laura Potter, a practising maker and graduate from the School of Jewellery. There are 30 pavement slabs, with a stainless steel information plaque based on the form of a hallmarked tag usually found on jewellery. There is also a glass cat's eye set into each information plaque which reflects light at night and day on the principle of a gemstone set in jewellery. Slabs contain various elements of either stainless steel or cast bronze. The Charm Bracelet Trail was designed by the Birmingham-based artist partnership Renn and Thacker. The trail is shaped like a giant bronze charm bracelet. At the bottom of Newhall Hill is a charm bracelet padlock that illuminates at night, marking the start of the trail.\n\nJewellery manufacturers continue work in the area today with around 700 jewellery-related businesses in the Quarter. 400 of these are jewellery manufacturers, producing 40% of British jewellery output. Jewellery is produced here for the general public and also for the wholesale and retail trade and the area is said to contain the highest concentration of dedicated jewellers in Europe. Vittoria Street hosts the Jewellery teaching centre for the Birmingham Institute of Art and Design. Many former industrial buildings have been refurbished including the Argent Centre. As a result of regeneration, the Jewellery Quarter has also become home to PR firms, media firms, software companies and developers. It also hosts half of the city's architectural practices.\n\nThe silver and gold manufactured in the city during the 19th century and early 20th century was of exceptionally high quality, with its own hallmark. These products are now considered collectibles. In the 19th century, other products such as chains were manufactured. Some chains were produced to be purely ornamental and to be attached to watches. However, some larger chains were manufactured for industrial uses. These chains sometimes contained silver, and rarely gold. Gold chains would sell, on average, for £250,000. The first silver guard chain made in Birmingham was made in 1806. At around the mid-19th century, between 1,500 and 1,600 people were employed in the chain-making industry, 500 of which were women.\n\nAnother major trade in the Jewellery Quarter and the surrounding area was the pen trade. The Quarter was home to the world's first mass producer of pen nibs which made pens more affordable by reducing the cost by 99.9%. At the industry's peak in the area, 5,000 workers produced 1,500 million pen nibs per year. The area was home to many dip pen manufacturers who played a vital role in the pen trade in the city. During the first half of the 20th century, Swan Pens opened a large gold pen factory in the city, taking advantage of the skilled gold workers of the Jewellery Quarter.\nMany sporting awards have been produced in the area and still are today. The trophy awarded to the winners of the Wimbledon Ladies Singles tournament was produced in the area. Thomas Fattorini Ltd. is also based in the area and have designed and made the original FA Cup trophy, and still make the Lonsdale and Commonwealth belts for boxing.\n\nWhistles were pioneered in the Jewellery Quarter, especially by Joseph Hudson who produced the first football referee whistle in 1878 and invented the police whistle in 1883. Hudson also manufactured whistles for the RMS \"Titanic\", some of which were recovered from the wreck. Around 1,000 million whistles have been made by various companies in the Jewellery Quarter since 1870.\n\nCoffins and coffin parts were also manufactured in the area with the main factory being the Newman Brothers Coffin Furniture Factory. The works were constructed in 1892 to a design by Richard Harley for Newman Brothers, who were brass founders and produced metal coffin fittings. The company manufactured coffin furniture in solid brass, electro-brass, silver plate and nickel plate, and later from resins with oxy-silver, oxy-bronze and oxy-copper finishes. At its peak, it employed 100 people. The company also made shrouds. By the 1950s, the company was exporting their products to Asia, Africa and North America. The company has also produced coffin furniture for the funerals of Sir Winston Churchill, Joseph Chamberlain and Princess Diana. When the company shut down in 1999 as a result of cheap mass production of fittings made from resins and plastics, it was one of three coffin furniture manufacturers in England.\n\nCoins were also manufactured in the Jewellery Quarter by the Birmingham Mint, which flourished in the city from 1850 till 2003. By 1889, it had become the biggest private mint in the world. However, as the Mint expanded, their business diversified into the manufacture of commemorative medals, copper tubings and gambling tokens. By 1953, coins accounted for only 5% of the business.\n\nAs tourism in the area has increased since the 1990s, many buildings have been restored and have since become local landmarks. St Paul's Square is the only remaining Georgian square in Birmingham, whose church was attended by the new industrialists. It eventually became overrun with workshops and lost its exclusiveness as a residence towards the end of the 19th century. It has now had restorative work and many are listed building. It is one of a few open spaces remaining in the Jewellery Quarter. Two others are the Warstone Lane and the Key Hill Cemeteries. Both cemeteries are closed to burials and are listed areas. The General Cemetery at Key Hill became Grade II listed on the National Register of Historic Parks and Gardens in 1996 and the Church of England Cemetery on Warstone Lane was added in 2001. However, they are in urgent need of restoration and have been placed on English Heritage's at Risk Register. Key Hill is home to the tombs of many influential people of Birmingham.\n\nThe Chamberlain Clock stands at the junction of the Vyse and Frederick Street with Warstone Lane. It was constructed in 1903 to mark Joseph Chamberlain's visit to South Africa. It was unveiled in January 1904 by Chamberlain's wife.\n\nNewhall Street was home to the Museum of Science and Industry, which incorporated the Elkington Silver Electroplating Works. The museum closed in 1997 and the majority of the buildings were demolished, with only the buildings fronting onto Newhall Street and a hall in the centre of the site being retained. The site is to be developed in a mixed-use scheme called Newhall Square and will incorporate the remaining buildings. Many exhibits of the museum itself moved to Thinktank in Millennium Point.\n\nAnother local landmark is the Big Peg, formerly called the Hockley Centre. It was completed in 1971 as an eight-storey flatted factory to a design by Peter Hing & Jones. The building was refurbished into a studio offices for arts, media and creative businesses. The Big Peg Gallery hosts arts exhibitions from local artists and the building has space for 500 people. It is owned and operated by SPACE Organisation. Located within the Big Peg is Concrete, a club which was opened on 1 February 2008 with Utah Saints headlining the opening.\n\nThe Jewellery Quarter is served by the Jewellery Quarter station, a co-joined stop on both the Midland Metro and the main rail line into Birmingham Snow Hill station. It was opened as a passenger railway station in 1995 as part of the \"Jewellery Line\" project and Midland Metro services commenced in 1999. It is located on the Birmingham to Worcester via Kidderminster Line. It is located partly on the site of the Hockley goods facilities. The Hockley railway station is a disused station located about away from the current Jewellery Quarter station. It was open from 1854 till 1972. A viaduct starts at Snow Hill station and becomes a tunnel, cutting beneath the Jewellery Quarter. A new entrance to Snow Hill station is being constructed within the viaduct on the opposite side of Great Charles Street Queensway, within the Jewellery Quarter.\n\nBirmingham's canal network cuts through the south of the Jewellery Quarter. The Birmingham and Fazeley Canal was completed in this area in 1789. A canal arm was constructed by Caroline Colmore in 1809 and this became known as Miss Colmore's Canal, although was later named Whitmore's Arm. The canal arm has since been filled in although the remains of the entrance to it are still visible from the canal path. Also along this length of canal are the remains of brackets which held early canalside lighting. Newhall Street crosses the canal and beneath the bridge is lock 9 of the Farmers Bridge flight. Lock 10 is located directly beneath Brindley House, a telephone exchange which was constructed 1967–8 to a design by D.K. McGowan. It has recently been renovated into apartments by MCD Developments. The canal is no longer used for industrial purposes and is now used for leisure.\n\nThe Jewellery Quarter itself consists of a network of narrow streets. However, the area is bounded by large roads, chiefly a product of postwar redevelopment. To the south is Great Charles Street Queensway which formed part of the A4400 Inner Ring Road. Part of the road also consists of the Great Charles Street Queensway tunnel, part of the A38. To the northwest is Icknield Street which forms part of the A4540 Middle Ring Road. At the western apex of the area, the Middle Ring Road forms a junction with the A457. At the northernmost point, Great Hampton Street crosses over the Middle Ring Road at Boulton Middleway. Great Hampton Street runs southeast and becomes Constitution Hill and then Old Snow Hill before merging with the Inner Ring Road at St Chad's Circus. To the southwest is Sand Pits and Summer Hill Road, forming part of the A457. Several bus services run through the Jewellery Quarter, and many National Express West Midlands buses run along the main roads on the boundaries.\n\nThe longest-running school in the Jewellery Quarter is the Municipal School for Jewellers and Silversmiths, now part of the Birmingham Institute of Art and Design, run by Birmingham City University, on Vittoria Street. The school was founded in 1888 and moved to its present location in 1890 when Martin & Chamberlain converted a goldsmith's factory, built in 1865 to a design by J. G. Bland. The top storey was added in 1906 by Cossins, Peacock & Bewlay who also designed the south extension in 1911. The school was acquired by the University of Central England in 1989, along with an adjoining site. They commissioned Associated Architects who designed a further south extension which was constructed between 1992 and 1993. They also redesigned much of the interior, creating a full-height atrium with gallery access to workshops. The reception area can also be used as exhibition space. The building itself consists of a Lombardo-Gothic front, whilst the 1911 extension is of red brick mottled with blue. The project won the 1995 RIBA Architecture Award and the 1996 Civic Trust Award.\n\nBounded by Great Hampton Street, Hall Street and Kenyon Street is the Birmingham campus of The College of Law charity. It is located within industrial premises, previously occupied by William Canning & Co., manufacturing chemists and dry salters and became The College of Law premises in 2001. The entrance to the college is located at the corner of Great Hampton Street and Hall Street and there is vehicular access via Kenyon Street. The car park to the rear of the premises was created through the demolition of industrial units in the 1980s. On 6 May 2008, the college submitted a planning application for an extension to provide of additional space along with car parking. The extension was designed by Gaunt Francis Architects. It was approved by Birmingham City Council in September 2008 and construction commenced in October 2008 with completion in September 2009.\n\nAbbey College Birmingham is a college based in buildings overlooking St Paul's Square. Opened in October 1994, it is an independent college with approximately 140 pupils aged 14–19. It is part of the Alpha Plus Group.\n\nUniversity College Birmingham own land on Legge Lane and commissioned Glancy Nicholls Architects in 2006 to design a new campus for the site. The £15 million project was due to be submitted for planning permission in Spring 2007, although no planning application has been submitted. The design consisted of a four-storey building with of space. Part of the site includes the remaining gable end of St Paul's School which was completed in 1869 to a design by J. A. Chatwin.\n\nThe former City of Birmingham Fire Brigade station on Albion Street which was built between 1909 and 1910 to a design by T. G. Price, has been converted into a private children's day nursery.\n\nBirmingham Music School - a Yamaha Music Point exists within Branston Court. Its presence heightens the growing music scene within the Jewellery Quarter and Hockley areas.\n\nParking in the Jewellery Quarter is predominantly pay and display and permit holders bays. There are a variety of cheaper off-road options at around 50p per hour. There are also some free parking spaces on the side streets. Free bays are marked by a white P in a blue square on a nearby sign.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2010424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010424", "title": "St. Patrick's Church", "text": "St. Patrick's Church\n\nSt. Patrick's Church, Saint Patrick's Church, St. Patrick's Roman Catholic Church or Saint Patrick's Roman Catholic Church, and similar, may refer to:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2010437", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010437", "title": "Caroline Ingalls", "text": "Caroline Ingalls\n\nCaroline Lake Ingalls (; \"née\" Quiner; December 12, 1839April 20, 1924) was the mother of Laura Ingalls Wilder, author of the \"Little House\" books.\n\nCaroline was born 15 miles west of Milwaukee, Wisconsin, in the Town of Brookfield, Waukesha County. She was the fifth of seven children of Henry Quiner and Charlotte (Tucker) Quiner. Her brothers were Joseph, Henry, and Thomas, and her sisters were Martha Jane and Eliza (the Quiners' first child, Martha Morse Quiner, died in 1836).\n\nWhen Caroline was 5, her father was second mate on a ship that capsized and sank on Lake Michigan near the Straits of Mackinac. There were no survivors. In 1849, her mother married farmer Frederick Holbrook. They had one child together, Charlotte \"Lottie\" Holbrook. Caroline evidently loved and respected her stepfather, and would later honor his memory by naming her son after him. At the age of 16 1/2, Caroline started working as a teacher.\n\nOn February 1, 1860, she married Charles Phillip Ingalls in Concord, WI. Together they had five children: Mary Amelia, Laura Elizabeth, Caroline Celestia (Carrie), Charles Frederick (Freddie), and Grace Pearl.\n\nCharles Frederick \"Freddie\" Ingalls was born on November 1, 1875, in Walnut Grove, Minnesota, and died August 27, 1876, in South Troy, Minnesota, of indeterminate causes.\n\nIn her autobiography , Laura remembers that \"Little Brother was not well\" and that \"one terrible day, he straightened out his little body and was dead\". Wilder scholar William Anderson noted: \"Nearly forty years after Freddie's death, Ma mourned him, telling relatives how different everything would be 'if Freddie had lived'.\"\n\nThe Ingalls family traveled by covered wagon from Wisconsin; Kansas (Indian Territory); Burr Oak, Iowa; and Minnesota. In 1879, they settled in De Smet in Dakota Territory. After arriving in De Smet, Caroline and the Ingalls family lived in the home of the local surveyor as well as a store in the downtown area, before homesteading just outside town on a farm by Silver Lake. When the Ingalls family sold the farm due to a persistent pattern of dry years, Charles built a home for them on Third Street in De Smet, known later as \"The House That Pa Built\". Following her husband's death from heart disease in 1902 at age 66, Ingalls and her oldest daughter, Mary, remained in the De Smet house, renting one of the rooms for extra income. Following a long illness, Caroline Ingalls died on Easter Sunday, April 20, 1924, at the age of 84.\n\nThe fictional series \"The Caroline Years,\" an extension of the \"Little House\" series, by Maria D. Wilkes and Celia Wilkins, follows Caroline Quiner from her fifth year to her late teens, up to her engagement to Charles. The first title in the series is \"Little House in Brookfield.\"\n\nThe novel \"Caroline: Little House, Revisited\" by Sarah Miller follows the Ingalls family move from Pepin, Wisconsin to Kansas Territory from the viewpoint of Caroline. The novel was authorized by the Little House Heritage Trust.\n\n"}
{"id": "2010443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010443", "title": "Phil Savage", "text": "Phil Savage\n\nPhillip Savage Jr. (born April 7, 1965) is a former American football executive. In 2019 he was the general manager for the Arizona Hotshots of the Alliance of American Football. He was the senior vice president and general manager of the Browns from 2005 to 2008. He served as Director of Player Personnel for the Baltimore Ravens under General Manager Ozzie Newsome, a former Browns' player and member of the Pro Football Hall of Fame, from 2003 to 2004. He was a scout for the Browns from 1993 to 1995. He was also the former general manager of the Cleveland Browns and the executive director for the Senior Bowl.\n\nSavage attended high school at Murphy High School in Mobile, Alabama and played football and baseball at the University of the South (Sewanee, Tennessee). He earned a Bachelor of Arts in English and was a three-time all-conference shortstop in baseball. He received a master's degree in physical education from the University of Alabama in 1989.\n\nSavage spent the first seven years of his career in the coaching ranks at Alabama, UCLA, and with the San Antonio Riders of the World League.\n\nSavage began his career in the National Football League (NFL) as an intern with the Cleveland Browns in 1991. Savage was hired by the new Browns head coach Bill Belichick as a coach and made the transition to scouting and personnel in 1994. During his first stint in Cleveland, he worked with several talented young scouts and assistant coaches that Belichick had assembled, including Nick Saban, Kirk Ferentz, Pat Hill, and Jim Bates.\n\nSavage worked his way up the ladder in the front office as a scout and personnel evaluator with the Browns, eventually following Cleveland's former owner Art Modell and the rest of the front office to Baltimore in 1995.\n\nSavage then played an important role in the drafting of 10 Pro Bowl players: offensive tackle Jonathan Ogden, linebacker Ray Lewis, receiver Jermaine Lewis, linebacker Peter Boulware, cornerback Chris McAlister, running back Jamal Lewis, linebacker Adalius Thomas, tight end Todd Heap, safety Ed Reed and linebacker Terrell Suggs.\n\nSavage was named Senior Vice President and General Manager of the Cleveland Browns on January 6, 2005. On December 30, 2005, reports surfaced that Savage was on the verge of being fired after less than one year on the job, an item that was quickly denied by Browns management. The speculation was based on a reported personality conflict between Savage and Browns team president John Collins. Four days after the organizational rift became public, it was Collins who resigned his post after losing the power struggle with Savage.\n\nSavage stole the headlines in the first round of the 2007 NFL Draft as the Browns drafted Wisconsin offensive tackle Joe Thomas with the third pick overall, and then acquired Notre Dame quarterback Brady Quinn with the 22nd pick, acquired through a trade with the Dallas Cowboys. The Browns gave up their 2007 second-round pick and 2008 first-round draft selection to Dallas for the chance to pick Quinn.\n\nThe Browns signed Savage to a three-year extension through 2012 on May 2, 2008. However, after a poor 2008 season and an email controversy involving a fan, Savage was fired on December 28, 2008.\n\nOn February 4, 2010, Savage was hired by the Philadelphia Eagles as a player personnel consultant. In his role, Savage worked with general manager Howie Roseman and director of player personnel Ryan Grigson in preparation for the 2010 NFL Draft, specifically in the evaluation of draft prospects in the southeast part of the country. He was re-hired during training camp.\n\nSavage was named the executive director for the Senior Bowl in May 2012 where he served until May 2018.\n\nIn June 2018, Savage joined the Arizona Hotshots of the Alliance of American Football as their general manager.\n\nIn April 2009, with Savage no longer in the NFL, he was asked to provide color commentary for the University of Alabama A-Day game along with Eli Gold. Savage voiced an interest in the open position left vacant by Ken Stabler. In June 2009, Savage was officially named part of the Crimson Tide Sports Network (CTSN).\n"}
{"id": "2010452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010452", "title": "New Hampshire Route 108", "text": "New Hampshire Route 108\n\nNew Hampshire Route 108 is a north–south state highway in Rockingham and Strafford counties in southeastern New Hampshire. The southern terminus of NH 108 is at the Massachusetts state line in Plaistow. The northern terminus is at an intersection with New Hampshire Route 125 and New Hampshire Route 202A in downtown Rochester.\n\nAt its southern end, NH 108 connects to Massachusetts Route 108, a very short state route which continues south for to Massachusetts Route 110 in Haverhill.\n\nNH 108 is notable in being one of two routes (the other being New Hampshire Route 9) to intersect both U.S. Route 4 and New Hampshire Route 4 (a rare case of two completely separate routes in one state having the same number).\n\nRoute 108 begins at an intersection with Route 110 north of downtown Haverhill, Massachusetts, near Kenoza Lake. The highway proceeds due north, passing underneath I-495 before crossing into Plaistow, New Hampshire, where it becomes NH 108.\n\nNH 108 runs along the eastern edge of Plaistow, near the Massachusetts border, before crossing through Newton into East Kingston, where it crosses NH 107A, then turns eastward to form a brief wrong-way concurrency with NH 107. Continuing north, NH 108 passes through Kensington, where it meets the north end of NH 150 and continues north into Exeter. In Exeter, NH 108 meets NH 27, NH 111 and NH 111A, forming a very brief overlap with the former two routes. NH 108 meets the western end of NH 88, then interchanges with the NH 101 freeway at exit 11.\n\nNH 108 crosses into Stratham where it meets NH 33, a connector to US 1 in Portsmouth which also interchanges with I-95, at a traffic circle. Continuing northward, NH 108 passes through Newfields and Newmarket, intersecting with NH 85 and NH 152 along the way. The road crosses into Durham and Strafford County, passing through the center of town just east of the University of New Hampshire main campus, and then interchanging with US 4. NH 108 continues through eastern Madbury and into the city of Dover.\n\nNH 108 interchanges with the Spaulding Turnpike (NH 16) at exit 7, becoming Central Avenue, the main road in downtown Dover. The road intersects NH 9 and NH 4 at Silver Street. NH 4 has its western terminus here. The three routes briefly run concurrently in the center of Dover, before NH 4 splits off towards South Berwick, Maine via Portland Avenue. NH 9 and NH 108 continue north until NH 9 splits off towards Berwick, Maine, near an intersection with the Spaulding Turnpike at Exit 9 (via Indian Brook Drive). NH 108 continues north into the city limits of Somersworth, where it meets NH 236, a short connector to NH 9 bound for Berwick. NH 108 serves as Somersworth's industrial strip, then continues north into Rochester. NH 108 terminates at the intersection of South Main Street and Columbus Avenue (NH 125), a terminus it shares with NH 202A. South Main Street continues into downtown as NH 202A westbound.\n\nThe Dover to Rochester section of NH 108 is scheduled for a $11.36 million improvement project, to begin in 2022, \"to improve safety and mobility for drivers, pedestrians, bikers and transit users,\" according to NHDOT.\n\n"}
{"id": "2010458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010458", "title": "New Hampshire Route 109", "text": "New Hampshire Route 109\n\nNew Hampshire Route 109 (abbreviated NH 109) is a north–south highway in Carroll County, New Hampshire. It runs southeast from Sandwich to the Maine border.\n\nThe northern terminus of NH 109 is at New Hampshire Route 113 in the village of Center Sandwich in the Lakes Region. The eastern terminus is at the Maine state line in the town of Wakefield, where the road continues as Maine State Route 109, heading toward the town of Acton.\n\nNew Hampshire Route 109A (abbreviated NH 109A) is an north–south highway in Carroll County, New Hampshire. The road splits off from New Hampshire Route 109, runs southeast roughly parallel to NH 109, and rejoins NH 109 again. The northern section of NH 109A is locally named Middle Road. The southern section is locally named Pine Hill Road.\n\nThe northern terminus of NH 109A is at NH 109 in Tuftonboro. The southern terminus is in Wolfeboro at New Hampshire Route 28 and NH 109.\n"}
{"id": "2010468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010468", "title": "Harrington Meeting House", "text": "Harrington Meeting House\n\nThe Harrington Meeting House is a historic colonial meeting house at 278 Harrington Road in Bristol, Maine. Built in 1772 and moved to its present site in 1775, it is one of the town's original three meeting houses. It contains a small museum of old photographs, clothing, and books. The adjoining cemetery has gravestones of historical interest. The building was added to the National Register of Historic Places as Harrington Meetinghouse in 1970.\n\nWhen Bristol was settled the land area was larger than today and the distance required to travel to the meeting house was such that three meeting houses were built to serve the Presbyterian population, the others being at Broad Cove (destroyed) and the Walpole Meetinghouse. The framing for the Harrington meeting house was originally erected in the village of Bristol Mills in 1772 but was \"pulled down\" and re-erected at the head of John's Bay in 1773. Bristol voters accepted all three meeting houses in 1775.\n\nIn about 1850 the building was moved several hundred yards to its current location and the interior altered. The interior was made into a \"back to\" or \"reverse plan\" arrangement which means the entry doors are behind the pulpit. The windows and doors were changed and a cove, plaster ceiling installed. John Johnston's \"A History of Bristol and Bremen\" indicated that the original meeting house had been destroyed, but in 1960 Ilonka Fertig spearheaded a repair of the existing meeting house only to find evidence the building was the original meeting house from 1772. By 1970 they mostly restored the building to its original configuration, but the pews were left out of the gallery which now houses museum displays and the plaster ceiling was left out to allow a view of the unusual roof framing.\n\nThe roof framing consists of king post trusses with a double top chord (or top chord and rafter). This type of king post truss is rare but other examples have been noted in such as in the 1714 Lynnfield, Massachusetts meeting house, 1800 Congregational Church in Windham, Vermont, and the 1799 Strafford, Vermont meeting house.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2010470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010470", "title": "The Snow Maiden", "text": "The Snow Maiden\n\nThe Snow Maiden (subtitle: A Spring Fairy Tale) () is an opera in four acts with a prologue by Nikolai Rimsky-Korsakov, composed during 1880–1881. The Russian libretto, by the composer, is based on the like-named play by Alexander Ostrovsky (which had premiered in 1873 with incidental music by Tchaikovsky).\n\nThe first performance of Rimsky-Korsakov's opera took place at the Mariinsky Theatre, Saint Petersburg on 29 January 1882 (OS; 10 February NS) conducted by Eduard Nápravník. By 1898 it was revised in the edition known today. It remained the composer's own favorite work.\n\nThe story deals with the opposition of eternal forces of nature and involves the interactions of mythological characters (Frost, Spring, Wood-Sprite), real people (Kupava, Mizgir'), and those in-between, i.e., half-mythical, half-real (Snow Maiden, Lel’, Berendey). The composer strove to distinguish each group of characters musically, and several individual characters have their own associated leitmotifs. In addition to these distinctions, Rimsky-Korsakov characterized the townspeople particularly with folk melodies. For a deeper understanding of this work from the composer's point of view, the reader is directed to his autobiography, as well as to his own incomplete analysis of the opera from 1905.\n\nThe Moscow premiere followed that of St. Petersburg three years later in 1885. It was presented by the Russian Private Opera (the Opera of Savva Mamontov in Moscow), conducted by Enrico Bevignani with scenic Design by Viktor Vasnetsov, Isaak Levitan, and Konstantin Korovin; Tsar Berendey – Grigoriy Erchov, \nBermyata – Anton Bedlevitch, \nSpring Beauty – Vera Gnucheva, \nGrandfather Frost – Stepan Vlasov, \nThe Snow Maiden – Nadejda Salina, \nBobyl Bakula – G. Kassilov or Nikolay Miller, \nLel – Tatyana Liubatovitch, \nMizgir – Mikhail Malinin (Boris Mikhailovich Malinin and Marina Raskova’s father), \nSecond Herald – M.Skuratovskiy.\n\nThe Bolshoi Theatre in Moscow presented the opera in 1893.\n\nIn March 2014 University College Opera presented a new English translation of The Snowmaiden in the Bloomsbury Theatre.\n\nOn Red Hill, near the Berendeyans' trading quarter and Tsar Berendey's capital. The fifteen-year-old Snow Maiden wants to live with the people in the nearby village, and her parents, Spring Beauty and Grandfather Frost, agree to let her be adopted by Bobyl-Bakula and his wife.\n\n\"In the village of Berendeyevka, on the other side of the river\".\n\nSnow Maiden is enchanted by Lel's songs, but is saddened when he goes off with a group of other girls. Kupava enters and announces her own wedding to Mizgir. The ceremony takes place, but then Mizgir notices Snow Maiden, becomes smitten with her, and begs her to love him. Kupava brings this effrontery before the villagers, and they advise her to go to the Tsar for redress.\n\n\"In Tsar Berendey's palace\"\n\nKupava complains of Mizgir to Tsar Berendey, who decides to banish Mizgir to the forest. But these deliberations are disrupted by the appearance of the beautiful Snow Maiden. The Tsar asks her whom she loves, and she says, \"no one.\" The Tsar declares that whoever successfully woos Snow Maiden will win both her and a royal reward. Although the maidens present Lel as the likely candidate, Mizgir swears that he will win Snow Maiden's heart. The Tsar agrees to the contest as the people sing his praises.\n\n\"In a forest reserve, that evening\"\n\nThe people amuse themselves with song and dance. The Tsar invites Lel to choose a maiden. Despite Snow Maiden's pleas, he kisses Kupava and goes off with her. Snow Maiden, left alone and disconsolate, wonders why Lel has rejected her. Suddenly Mizgir appears and tries once more to win her love. Frightened by his words, she runs off; but the Wood-Sprite tricks Mizgir to follow an apparition of Snow Maiden instead. Lel and Kupava enter, declaring their mutual love. Snow Maiden finds them and, seeing their happiness, at last truly wishes to have the capacity to love.\n\n\"In the valley of Yarilo, the sun god, dawn is breaking the next day\"\n\nSnow Maiden calls on her mother, Spring-Beauty, who appears from a lake surrounded by flowers. Spring gives her daughter a garland and warns her to stay out of the light of the sun. Spring and her retinue sink into the lake. Before Snow Maiden can enter the protection of the forest, Mizgir appears. No longer able to resist, she professes her love for him. The Berendeyans, in ritual bride-and-groom pairs, arrive to celebrate Yarilo's Day. Mizgir introduces Snow Maiden as his bride. As she declares her love for Mizgir, a bright ray of sunlight appears, and Snow Maiden bids farewell: the power to love is the source of her demise. To the astonishment of the people, she melts. The inconsolable Mizgir drowns himself in the lake. The Tsar calms the horrified Berendeyans with the fact that this event has ended the fifteen-year-long winter that has befallen them. In response the people strike up a stirring hymn to Yarilo.\n\nPrologue\nAct 1\n\nAct 2\nAct 3\nAct 4\n\n\nAudio Recordings (\"Mainly studio recordings\")\n\nSource: www.operadis-opera-discography.org.uk\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2010473", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010473", "title": "Intonation Music Festival", "text": "Intonation Music Festival\n\nThe Intonation Music Festival was a yearly summer music festival held at Union Park in Chicago, Illinois.\n\nThe festival was held on July 16–17, 2005. It was conceived of and launched by Skyline Chicago, who hired Pitchfork Media to curate, and supported by Microsoft (by way of the Xbox), Tower Records, WLUW and PETA2, among others.\n\nThe admission price was $15 per day, with a limited number of $22 two-day passes that were available online only. Gates opened at noon each day.\n\nThe festival had been announced as slated for Chicago's Pulaski Park, but the festival was moved twice, ending up in the much larger Union Park.\n\n\n\n\n\nThe 2006 festival was held at Union Park and curated by VICE Records and supported by KEXP. Pitchfork and independent concert promoter Mike Reed withdrew their support from the festival following their split with promotion company Skyline Chicago, who organizes the festival. Pitchfork staged their own music festival in 2006, the Pitchfork Music Festival.\n\nTickets went on sale on Monday, March 13 and cost $35 for a two-day pass and $20 for a single-day pass, along with a limited quantity of $25 two-day passes available.\n\n\n\nThe Chicago Sun-Times reported on April 6 that the festival would not be continuing for what would have been its third year. \"'We looked at what was happening this summer, and the festival crowds of Chicago are being well served at this point,' Intonation spokesman David Singer said, citing competition from the Pitchfork Music Festival in Union Park on July 13–15, Eric Clapton's Crossroads Guitar Festival at Toyota Park on July 28, Lollapalooza in Grant Park on Aug. 3-5 and the combination of the Hideout Block Party and Metro's 25th anniversary celebration at Elston and Wabansia on Sept. 7-9.\"\n\nA free performance of local Chicago acts sponsored by Intonation Music Festival LLC was held October 7, 2007 at the Museum of Contemporary Art, Chicago.\n"}
{"id": "2010476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010476", "title": "Scarlett (Ripley novel)", "text": "Scarlett (Ripley novel)\n\nScarlett is a 1991 novel by Alexandra Ripley, written as a sequel to Margaret Mitchell's 1936 novel, \"Gone with the Wind\". The book debuted on \"The New York Times\" bestsellers list.\n\nIt was adapted as a television mini-series of the same title in 1994 starring Timothy Dalton as Rhett Butler and Joanne Whalley-Kilmer as Scarlett O'Hara.\n\nThe book begins where \"Gone with the Wind\" left off, with Scarlett attending the funeral of her former sister-in-law and rival for Ashley Wilkes' affection, Melanie Wilkes, at which her estranged husband, Rhett Butler, is not present. Scarlett, heartbroken and aggravated that Rhett left her, sets out for Tara and is saddened when she learns that Mammy, her mainstay since birth, is dying. She sends a telegram to notify Rhett about Mammy under the name of Will Benteen (her sister Suellen's husband), because she knows that Rhett won't come if he suspects Scarlett is there. Before Mammy dies, she makes Rhett swear to look after Scarlett. Rhett agrees, although he has no intention of honoring the request. After Mammy's death, Rhett and Scarlett fight, which culminates in Rhett leaving and Scarlett returning to the Atlanta house, determined to win Rhett back.\n\nScarlett travels to Charleston to visit Rhett's family and tries to corner him by winning his mother's affection. She convinces Rhett to take her for a sail on the harbour, where their boat capsizes during a terrible storm. Scarlett and Rhett swim to an island, where they make love in a cave. Rhett initially denies, then admits, that he loves Scarlett, but he does not want to \"lose himself\" over her again. Back in Charleston, Rhett leaves Scarlett near death at his mother's house, telling her, in a letter, that while he admires her bravery, he will never see her again.\n\nAfter Scarlett regains her strength, she leaves Charleston with her two aunts, Pauline and Eulalie, to attend her maternal grandfather's birthday celebration in Savannah. She leaves a note to Rhett's mother with Rhett's sister, Rosemary, who burns the note.\n\nScarlett connects with the Savannah O'Haras against her maternal family's wishes. Scarlett's grandfather offers Scarlett his inheritance if she remains with him in Savannah until his death and avoids contact with her father's side of the family. Scarlett refuses and storms out of the house. She goes to stay with her cousin Jamie and his family. Soon another cousin named Colum, a priest from Ireland, joins them. Scarlett agrees to travel to Ireland with him. By this time Scarlett has realized that she is pregnant with Rhett's child but she keeps her pregnancy hidden.\n\nIn Ireland, Scarlett is heartily welcomed by her Irish kin. Exploring with Colum, they pass an old house called 'Ballyhara'; it was O'Hara land long ago before the English seized it. Scarlett soon receives a notification of divorce from Rhett. She makes plans to leave for America but learns that Rhett is now married to Anne Hampton, who is said to resemble Melanie Wilkes. Heartbroken, Scarlett decides to remain in Ireland. She works with lawyers and leaves her two-third share of her father's plantation, Tara, to her son Wade Hampton (fathered by her first husband, Charles Hamilton, brother of Melanie Wilkes), buys Ballyhara and settles down in Ireland, to her Irish family's delight. She and Colum tell everyone that her husband died rather than tell the truth that she was divorced.\n\nAs Ballyhara is restored, Scarlett eagerly awaits the birth of her child, praying for it to be a girl and vowing to be a good mother. She is well respected by the townspeople and her family, earning her a reputation as a hard worker. She becomes known as The O'Hara, a title reserved for the undisputed leader of a family clan.\n\nOn Halloween night, her water breaks. Her housekeeper, Mrs. Fitzpatrick, and the midwife whom Colum summons are unable to handle the situation, and it appears that Scarlett will die. Instead, she is saved by a wise old woman who lives near the haunted tower. The caesarean birth is successful, but internal damage is done to Scarlett, who can no longer have children. The baby, a girl, is born with dark skin like Rhett's, but with blue eyes that slowly turn green. Scarlett names her Katie Colum O'Hara, and calls her \"Cat\" because of her green eyes.\n\nAfter Scarlett has settled down in Ballyhara, she runs into Rhett a number of times—in America while she is on the boat to Boston, at a fair where she admits she still loves him, and at a foxhunt a week later. He still does not know he has a child. He then seeks her out at a society ball and Scarlett realizes he still loves her.\n\nLord Fenton, one of the wealthiest men in Europe, pursues Scarlett, wanting to marry her. He wants Scarlett to bear his children after seeing Cat's fiery spirit and fearlessness. He also plans to unite their estates; he owns Adamstown, the land adjacent to Scarlett's. Angered by his arrogance, Scarlett refuses and orders him out of her house. Scarlett leaves for Dublin for her yearly visit for parties and hunts. She later decides to accept Lord Fenton when she hears that Anne is pregnant with Rhett’s child.\n\nThe news leaks out about her engagement and a drunken Rhett insults her when she runs into him at a horse race. A friend tells Scarlett that Anne and the baby both died, and she rushes back to Ballyhara hopeful that Rhett will come looking for her. She finds English there with a warrant to arrest Colum, who is the head of a group of Irish terrorists. Colum is murdered and Rosaleen Fitzpatrick sets fire to the English arsenal to avenge him. The villagers, thinking Scarlett is in league with the English, burn her house down. Rhett comes to her rescue and tries to convince her to escape with him, but Scarlett runs around her house yelling for her daughter. When she tells Rhett that he is Cat's father, he helps her search. After finding Cat, the three climb into a high tower on Ballyhara and stay there for the night. Rhett and Scarlett both say \"I love you\". They wake up the next morning ready to start their new lives together and leave Ireland.\n\nReviewing the novel for \"The New York Times\" in 1991, Janet Maslin said the book was a \"stunningly uneventful 823-page holding action.\" Donald McCaig, author of \"Rhett Butler's People\", said it was his impression that the Margaret Mitchell estate was \"thoroughly embarrassed\" by \"Scarlett\". \"Scarlett\", universally panned by critics, nevertheless was a commercial success. The book sold millions of copies and remains in print. \n\nWhen discussing the possibility of his own works receiving unauthorized sequels after his death, \"A Song of Ice and Fire\" author George R. R. Martin called such books \"abominations, to my mind, like [...] \"Scarlett\", the [...] \"Gone With the Wind\" sequel\".\n\nIt was adapted as a television mini-series of the same title in 1994 starring Timothy Dalton as Rhett Butler and Joanne Whalley-Kilmer as Scarlett O'Hara. The plot of the mini-series varies considerably from the book.\n"}
{"id": "2010480", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010480", "title": "Englezovac", "text": "Englezovac\n\nEnglezovac () is an urban neighborhood of Belgrade, the capital of Serbia. It is located in the Belgrade's municipality of Vračar.\n\nEnglezovac is located in the western part of the municipality, on the western slopes of the Vračar hill and stretches from the Slavija square to the Vračar plateau and the Temple of Saint Sava. The main streets in the neighborhood are \"Svetog Save\", \"Makenzijeva\" and the \"Boulevard of the Liberation\". Originally, term stretched west of the boulevard, but today not many people consider that part of Belgrade as part of Vračar.\n\nConstruction of Englezovac started in 1880 after a Scottish businessman and Nazarene Francis Mackenzie bought a large piece of land in 1879 from Đorđe Simić, Serbian politician and prime minister, for 7,500 ducats. Land was bounded by the modern streets of \"Beogradska\", \"Njegoševa\", \"Molerova\", \"Makenzijeva\" (named after Mackenzie), \"Katanićeva\", \"Bore Stankovića\", \"Skerlićeva\" and \"Bulevar oslobođenja\". Previously known as the \"Simićev Majur\" (”Simić's farm”), the area eventually became known as Englezovac, Serbian for \"Englishman's place\"), as the term Englishman is, even today, universally used in colloquial speech for any inhabitant of the Great Britain.\n\nAs the \"Simićev Majur\" was a marshy area, Mackenzie originally planned to drain the land and organize agricultural production. He changed his plans later, hiring architects who parceled it out into lots for selling and cut the streets through. Mackenzie then sold the lots. Soon numerous houses were built, mostly one or two-floors high. Larger edifices included the Hall of Peace (\"Sala mira\"), in which the cult cinema \"Slavija\" was situated later. After the urbanization, Englezovac included the area between the streets of \"Njegoševa\" and \"Svetog Save\".\n\nHe also donated a piece of land to the Serbian Orthodox Church for the construction of the Temple of Saint Sava. \"The Society for the Embellishment of Vračar\" suggested to Belgrade City Council to rename Englezovac to Savinac (Serbian for \"Sava's place\") on 31 March 1894. They stated that it is \"a shame for the Serbian capital that a whole district is called Englishman's\" and unconceivable that a national shrine (Temple of Saint Sava) lie on foreign property.\n\nIn the late 1980s, many books and articles on \"Old Belgrade\" became popular again and so the term Englezovac, at this time already unknown to majority of people, resurfaced. However, just like Savinac, it didn't get the popular usage, and most of Belgraders still refer to this part of the city as Vračar.\n\n"}
{"id": "2010484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010484", "title": "Spellbinder (comics)", "text": "Spellbinder (comics)\n\nSpellbinder, in comics, may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2010486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010486", "title": "Holidays in the Danger Zone", "text": "Holidays in the Danger Zone\n\nHolidays in the Danger Zone is a series of documentaries, produced by the BBC This World and originally broadcast on BBC Four in the UK. They have also been shown on BBC Two and exported to other countries, including Canada and Australia.\n\nThe series of travelogues see the presenters Ben Anderson and Simon Reeve visit countries which are far off the beaten track.\n\nThe programmes are occasionally repeated on BBC Four and have also been shown on BBC World. Outside of the UK, the series currently screens on the BBC Knowledge and BBC Earth channels.\n"}
{"id": "2010488", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010488", "title": "New Hampshire Route 110", "text": "New Hampshire Route 110\n\nNew Hampshire Route 110 (abbreviated NH 110) is a east–west state highway in Coos County, northern New Hampshire, United States. The road winds through the scenic, mountainous country of New Hampshire north of the White Mountain National Forest. NH 110 is locally named the Berlin-Groveton Highway.\n\nThe eastern terminus of NH 110 is in Berlin at New Hampshire Route 16 (White Mountain Road). The western terminus of NH 110 is at U.S. Route 3 in the village of Groveton, town of Northumberland, on the Connecticut River.\n\nNew Hampshire Route 110A (abbreviated NH 110A) is a connector road in the town of Milan, north of Berlin, United States. NH 110A is locally named Cedar Pond Road.\n\nThe eastern terminus of NH 110A is at New Hampshire Route 16 (White Mountain Road) 12 miles (19.3 km) north of Berlin. The western terminus is at New Hampshire Route 110 11.2 miles (18 km) northwest of Berlin.\n\nNew Hampshire Route 110B (abbreviated NH 110B) is a connector road in the town of Milan, New Hampshire, north of Berlin. NH 110B is locally named Milan Hill Road.\n\nThe eastern terminus of NH 110B is at New Hampshire Route 16 near the Berlin Regional Airport. The western terminus is at New Hampshire Route 110A near Cedar Pond.\n"}
{"id": "2010489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010489", "title": "When a Stranger Calls (1979 film)", "text": "When a Stranger Calls (1979 film)\n\nWhen a Stranger Calls is a 1979 American psychological horror film written and directed by Fred Walton and co-written by Steve Feke. It stars Carol Kane, Colleen Dewhurst, Tony Beckley and Charles Durning. The film derives its story from the classic folk legend of \"the babysitter and the man upstairs\".\n\nThe film has developed a large cult following over time because of the first 20 minutes, now consistently regarded as one of the scariest openings in movie history. The first 12 minutes of Wes Craven's \"Scream\" is an homage to the opening of \"When a Stranger Calls\".\n\nThe film was released in the United States on October 26, 1979, by Columbia Pictures. It was commercially successful, grossing $21,411,158 at the box office. It received a mixed critical reception, with many praising the opening scene and performances, but criticism for its writing and lack of scares. It was followed by the 1993 made-for-cable sequel \"When a Stranger Calls Back\" and a remake in 2006.\n\nJill Johnson (Carol Kane) is babysitting the children of Dr. Mandrakis (Carmen Argenziano) at his home. When the children are asleep, Jill receives a telephone call from a man who asks her if she has checked the children. Jill initially dismisses the telephone calls as a practical joke. However, as the calls become more frequent and threatening, Jill becomes frightened and decides to call the police, who tell Jill to keep the caller on the line long enough for them to trace the call. Jill receives one final call from her stalker. Immediately after the conversation, the police phone to inform her that the calls are coming from a phone inside the house. Jill runs to the door as a light comes on at the top of the staircase, and the stalker's shadow appears. The scene segues to a close-up of detective John Clifford (Charles Durning), who is the investigating the matter. Patrol officer Charlie Garber (Ron O'Neal) explains that Jill is unharmed, but the children were murdered by the perpetrator several hours earlier, before Jill's ordeal even started. The killer is identified as an English merchant seaman named Curt Duncan (Tony Beckley), who is subsequently sent to an asylum.\n\nSeven years later, Duncan escapes from the asylum. Dr. Mandrakis hires Clifford, now a private investigator, to find Duncan. Not knowing Clifford is after him, Duncan is now a homeless, vagrant loner. He is beaten after disturbing a woman, Tracy (Colleen Dewhurst), in a downtown bar, and later follows her to her apartment. Feeling sorry for his appearance and her involuntary role in the beating, Tracy tries to be nice to the man while getting him to leave, hoping this will be the last she sees of him.\n\nMeanwhile, an increasingly obsessed Clifford confides to his friend (now Lieutenant) Garber his intention to kill Duncan rather than arrest him. Garber, who was also present in the Mandrakis crime scene, agrees to collaborate. Clifford follows the trail to the bar where Duncan was beaten, and from there to Tracy's residence. Clifford tells Tracy just how dangerous her situation has become, revealing that Duncan had literally torn apart the Mandrakis children with his bare hands. Tracy reluctantly agrees to be Clifford's bait at the bar that evening should Duncan reappear. Clifford surreptitiously follows Tracy from the bar to her apartment, but sees no sign of Duncan. After Clifford leaves, however, Duncan comes out of hiding from inside Tracy’s closet. Tracy screams for help. Clifford returns and chases Duncan away from the scene, losing his trail in the streets of downtown Los Angeles.\n\nJill Lockart (née Johnson) is now married with two young children. One night, she and her husband Stephen (Steven Anderson) go out to dinner in celebration of a promotion, while their children are babysat by Sharon (Lenora May). At the restaurant, Jill gets a telephone call and hears Duncan's voice again: \"Have you checked the children?\". She panics and calls Sharon; nothing seems to be wrong at first, but then the call is suddenly disconnected. The police escort Jill back home to discover that everything there is fine. Clifford is tipped off by Garber, however, and tries to call Jill, but finds that the line is disconnected. Later that night, Jill goes downstairs for a glass of milk when the lights suddenly go out. She returns to bed and hears Duncan's voice as the closet door appears to open. Jill tries shaking her husband awake only to realize that the man lying next to her is Duncan. Duncan chases Jill across the room and attempts to kill her when Clifford arrives and fatally shoots Duncan. Jill’s husband Stephen is revealed to be in the closet, unconscious but alive. Their children are safe. As Clifford comforts Jill, the last view is of the house, superimposed beneath the eyes of Curt Duncan.\n\n\"When a Stranger Calls\" is an expanded remake of Fred Walton and Steve Feke's short film, \"The Sitter\", which roughly comprised the first 20 minutes of this film.\n\nThe film marked Academy Award-nominated cinematographer Donald Peterman's feature film debut as director of photography. Principal photography took place over 27 1/2 days in the fall of 1978 on locations in and around Los Angeles. The house which served as the location for the first act of the movie was at 321 S. Chadbourne Ave., in the Brentwood neighborhood of Los Angeles. The Lockhart home in the final act was at 2722 Club Dr., Los Angeles, California, USA. Both houses have since been torn down. Additional photography took place in Big Bear Lake.\n\nThe downtown bar where Duncan and Tracy meet was \"Torchy's\" at 218 W. Fifth Street in Los Angeles, CA 90012. This is the same bar that served as filming locations for the redneck bar in \"48 Hrs.\" and for \"Brewster's Millions\".\n\nTony Beckley, who played Curt Duncan, died in April 1980, six months after the film's premiere. The 1993 sequel, \"When a Stranger Calls Back\", was dedicated to his memory.\n\nThe film was released on October 26, 1979, and later re-released on October 17, 1980. Carol Kane stated in an interview that while watching the film in the theater the audience began screaming and talking back to the screen during the opening 20 minutes of the film. The film was eventually released on the VHS format in 1986. A DVD release was distributed on October 9, 2001, with the only supplements being bonus trailers. A Blu-ray version of the film was eventually released by Mill Creek Entertainment in a double feature with \"Happy Birthday to Me\" on March 26, 2013. Neither film contains any special features on the disc.\nThe film was later released by Mill Creek Entertainment on blu ray, separate from ‘Happy Birthday to me.’ The packaging designed to look like a VHS. It was realized separate on February 11, 2020.(2/11/20)\n\nSecond Sight announced a special edition, which was released on December 17, 2018. The Blu-ray includes a brand new scan and restoration, plus the sequel \"When a Stranger Calls Back\", a new scan and restoration of the original short film \"The Sitter\", a reversible sleeve with new artwork by Obviously Creative and original poster artwork, as well as interviews with director Fred Walton, Carol Kane, Rutanya Alda, composer Dana Kaproff, the \"limited edition\" original soundtrack CD, along with a 40-page perfect-bound booklet with a new essay by Kevin Lyons.\n\nThe film had a total domestic gross of $20,149,106 during its initial theatrical run. In its 1980 theatrical re-release the film managed to gross $1,262,052. The film was a financial success, given its $1.5 million budget.\n\nOn Rotten Tomatoes, the film holds an approval rating of 41% based on , with a weighted average rating of 5.21/10. On Metacritic, which assigns a normalized rating to reviews, the film has a weighted average score of 58 out of 100, based on 7 critics, indicating \"mixed or average reviews\".\n\nRoger Ebert described the film as \"sleazy\" in a 1980 episode of \"Sneak Previews\".\n\nIn her review for \"The New York Times\", Janet Maslin wrote of the film \"\"When a Stranger Calls\" is an energetic first film\", adding that \"the frightened-babysitter opening of the movie is marvelously modern, as Mr. Walton demonstrates that a haunted house with an ice-making refrigerator is intrinsically scarier than a house without one. He also makes the most of that fearsome modern weapon, the telephone.\" Author Travis Holt elaborates on the importance of the telephone to the film's portrayal of horror, noting that in the beginning \"The phone is presented as a means of safety and comfort; it is a savior rather than a burden.\" Once the harassing phone calls begin however, the view of the telephone becomes more sinister:\n\nWith the constant central framing of the telephone and its intrusion into the tranquility of the house, the phone has become Jill's nemesis. Jill remains trapped in a situation where she can do nothing but pray that the perpetrator stops calling. The device that usually holds so much promise for positive communication has become virtually her worst nightmare.\n\nThe Classification and Rating Administration had originally voted unanimously for a PG rating (five years before the PG-13 rating was available for use). However, CARA chair Richard Heffner then viewed the film and called the board for further discussion to consider voting for an R rating instead. Although the theme of a film could potentially be accommodated within a PG rating, Heffner argued that this film's treatment of its theme was too unsettling for most parents to want it to be freely available to unaccompanied children. A majority vote was then received to assign the film its R rating.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2010492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010492", "title": "Charles Ingalls", "text": "Charles Ingalls\n\nCharles Phillip Ingalls (; January 10, 1836June 8, 1902) was the father of Laura Ingalls Wilder, known for her \"Little House\" series of books. He is depicted as the character \"Pa\" in the books and the television series.\n\nCharles Ingalls was born in Cuba, New York, the second of nine children of Lansford Whiting and Laura Louise (nee Colby) Ingalls. Ingalls' parents appear as \"Grandpa\" and \"Grandma\" in the Laura Ingalls Wilder book \"Little House in the Big Woods\".\n\nIngalls' father was born in Dunham, Missisquoi County, Lower Canada (now Dunham, Quebec, Canada), a descendant of Henry Ingalls (1627–1714) who was born in Skirbeck, Lincolnshire, England and settled in the Massachusetts Bay Colony. His mother was born in Vermont and was a descendant of Edmund Rice, an early immigrant to Massachusetts Bay Colony. Ingalls' paternal grandmother was Margaret Delano, a descendant of \"Mayflower\" passenger Richard Warren as well as from the Delano family of New York and ancestors of U.S. President Franklin Delano Roosevelt. In the 1840s, when Ingalls was a young boy, his family moved from New York to the tallgrass prairie of Campton Township, just west of Elgin, Illinois.\n\nIngalls grew into an accomplished hunter-trapper, carpenter, and farmer. He had a love of music and reading, and played the violin.\n\nOn February 1, 1860, Ingalls married a neighbor, the quiet and proper Caroline Lake Quiner. Together, they had five children: Mary Amelia, Laura Elizabeth, Caroline Celestia (Carrie), Charles Frederick (Freddie), who died in infancy, and Grace Pearl.\n\nFor his entire life, Ingalls had a strong case of \"wanderlust\". He is quoted by his daughter, Laura Ingalls Wilder, in her \"Little House\" series of books as saying: \"My wandering foot gets to itching\". From their original home in the woods of Wisconsin, Ingalls moved his family to Indian Territory in southeastern Kansas, then back to Wisconsin, Burr Oak, Iowa and from there to southern Minnesota. Presented with an opportunity to work for a railroad in Dakota Territory, he longed to move yet again, as the family was struggling financially in Minnesota. Charles moved to Dakota Territory in 1879, took a job with the Chicago and North Western Railroad, and filed for a homestead in Brookings, Dakota Territory, on February 19, 1880.\n\nAfter promising his wife, Caroline, that the family would finally settle in one place, it was in 1879 that Ingalls decided to stay in De Smet, Dakota Territory following their move from Minnesota. The first winter after arriving in De Smet, the family lived in what was known as the surveyor's house. Following the first winter, Ingalls decided to try farming in the area of Silver Lake, outside town. A few years later, he had \"proved up\" his claim and sold the farm, choosing to move back into De Smet and build a home on Third Street. Construction on the house began in 1887 and was completed in 1889. It was in this house that Ingalls, along with his wife and daughter Mary, lived out the rest of his days. In 1880, Ingalls opened a general goods store. The business closed in 1881. A respected citizen of De Smet, Ingalls held various elected positions in the town, including Justice of the Peace and deputy sheriff.\nIngalls helped found, build, and was an active member of the First Congregational Church in De Smet. The first service was held in the new church building on August 30, 1882. Ingalls and his wife, along with oldest daughter Mary, were among the church's eight original charter members.\n\nCharles Ingalls died on June 8, 1902 at the age of 66. A Freemason, Ingalls was given Masonic rites at his funeral. He is buried at De Smet Cemetery alongside his wife, Caroline, his daughters Mary, Carrie, and Grace, as well as his infant grandson who died at 12 days old, the child of daughter Laura and son-in-law Almanzo Wilder.\n\nIngalls has been portrayed in the adaptations of \"Little House on the Prairie\" by: \n\n"}
