{"id": "2010495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010495", "title": "Gary McKinnon", "text": "Gary McKinnon\n\nGary McKinnon (born 10 February 1966) is a Scottish systems administrator and hacker who was accused in 2002 of perpetrating the \"biggest military computer hack of all time,\" although McKinnon himself states that he was merely looking for evidence of free energy suppression and a cover-up of UFO activity and other technologies potentially useful to the public. On 16 October 2012, after a series of legal proceedings in Britain, Home Secretary Theresa May blocked extradition to the United States.\n\nMcKinnon was accused of hacking into 97 United States military and NASA computers over a 13-month period between February 2001 and March 2002, at the house of his girlfriend's aunt in London, using the name 'Solo'.\n\nUS authorities stated he deleted critical files from operating systems, which shut down the United States Army's Military District of Washington network of 2000 computers for 24 hours. McKinnon also posted a notice on the military's website: \"Your security is crap\". After the September 11 attacks in 2001, he deleted weapons logs at the Earle Naval Weapons Station, rendering its network of 300 computers inoperable and paralyzing munitions supply deliveries for the US Navy's Atlantic Fleet. McKinnon was also accused of copying data, account files and passwords onto his own computer. US authorities stated that the cost of tracking and correcting the problems he caused was over $700,000.\n\nWhile not admitting that it constituted evidence of destruction, McKinnon did admit leaving a threat on one computer:\nUS authorities stated that McKinnon was trying to downplay his own actions. A senior military officer at the Pentagon told \"The Sunday Telegraph\": \n\nMcKinnon was first interviewed by police on 19 March 2002. After this interview, his computer was seized by the authorities. He was interviewed again on 8 August 2002, this time by the UK National Hi-Tech Crime Unit (NHTCU).\n\nIn November 2002, McKinnon was indicted by a federal grand jury in the Eastern District of Virginia. The indictment contained seven counts of computer-related crime, each of which carried a potential ten-year jail sentence.\n\nMcKinnon remained at liberty without restriction for three years until June 2005 (until after the UK enacted the Extradition Act 2003, which implemented the 2003 extradition treaty with the United States wherein the United States did not need to provide contestable evidence), when he became subject to bail conditions including a requirement to sign in at his local police station every evening and to remain at his home address at night.\n\nIf extradited to the U.S. and charged, McKinnon would have faced up to 70 years in jail. He had also expressed fears that he could be sent to Guantanamo Bay.\n\nRepresenting McKinnon in the House of Lords on 16 June 2008, barristers told the Law Lords that the prosecutors had said McKinnon faced a possible 8–10 years in jail per count if he contested the charges (there were seven counts) without any chance of repatriation, but only 37–46 months if he co-operated and went voluntarily to the United States. U.S.-style plea bargains are not a part of English jurisprudence (although it is standard practice to reduce the sentence by one-third for a defendant who pleads guilty) and McKinnon's lawyers contended that in effect this was intimidation to force McKinnon to waive his legal rights. McKinnon also stated that he had been told that he could serve part of his sentence in the UK if he co-operated. He rejected the offer because the Americans would not guarantee these concessions.\n\nMcKinnon's barrister said that the Law Lords could deny extradition if there was an abuse of process: \"If the United States wish to use the processes of English courts to secure the extradition of an alleged offender, then they must play by our rules.\"\n\nThe House of Lords rejected this argument, with the lead judgement (of Lord Brown of Eaton-under-Heywood) holding that \"the difference between the American system and our own is not perhaps so stark as [McKinnon]'s argument suggests\" and that extradition proceedings should \"accommodate legal and cultural differences between the legal systems of the many foreign friendly states with whom the UK has entered into reciprocal extradition arrangements\".\n\nMcKinnon appealed to the European Court of Human Rights, which briefly imposed a bar on the extradition, but the request for an appeal was rejected.\n\nOn 23 January 2009, McKinnon won permission from the High Court to apply for a judicial review against his extradition. On 31 July 2009, the High Court announced that McKinnon had lost this appeal. McKinnon's legal team, solicitor Karen Todner and barrister Ben Cooper, applied for a judicial review into the Home Secretary's rejection of medical evidence, which stated that, when he could easily be tried in the UK, it was unnecessary, cruel and inhumane to inflict the further stress of removing him from his homeland, his family and his medical support network.\n\nOn 16 October 2012, then-Home Secretary Theresa May announced to the House of Commons that the extradition had been blocked, saying that:Mr McKinnon is accused of serious crimes. But there is also no doubt that he is seriously ill [...] He has Asperger's syndrome, and suffers from depressive illness. Mr McKinnon's extradition would give rise to such a high risk of him ending his life that a decision to extradite would be incompatible with Mr McKinnon's human rights.She stated that the Director of Public Prosecutions would determine whether McKinnon should face trial before a British court. On 14 December, the DPP, Keir Starmer, announced that McKinnon would not be prosecuted in the United Kingdom, because of the difficulties involved in bringing a case against him when the evidence was in the United States.\n\nIn January 2010 Mr Justice Mitting granted McKinnon a further judicial review of the decision of Home Secretary Alan Johnson to allow McKinnon’s extradition. Mitting distinguished two issues which were arguable, the first being whether psychiatrist Jeremy Turk's opinion that McKinnon would certainly commit suicide if extradited means that the Home Secretary must refuse extradition under section 6 of the Human Rights Act 1998 (which prevents a public authority from acting in a way incompatible with convention rights). The second was whether Turk's opinion was a fundamental change to the circumstances that the courts had previously considered and ruled upon. Mitting ruled that if the answer to both questions was \"Yes\", then it was arguable that it would be unlawful to allow the extradition.\n\nIn early November 2008, eighty British MPs signed an Early Day Motion calling for any custodial sentence imposed by an American court to be served in a prison in the UK. On 15 July 2009, many voted in Parliament against a review of the extradition treaty.\n\nIn November 2008, the rock group Marillion announced that it was ready to participate in a benefit concert in support of McKinnon's struggle to avoid extradition to United States. The organiser of the planned event was Ross Hemsworth, an English radio host. No date had been set as of November 2008. Many prominent individuals voiced support, including Sting, Trudie Styler, Julie Christie, David Gilmour, Graham Nash, Peter Gabriel, The Proclaimers, Bob Geldof, Chrissie Hynde, David Cameron, Boris Johnson, Stephen Fry, and Terry Waite. All proposed that, at least, he should be tried in the UK.\n\nIn August 2009, Glasgow newspaper \"The Herald\" reported that Scots entrepreneur Luke Heron would pay £100,000 towards McKinnon's legal costs in the event he was extradited to the US.\n\nIn a further article in \"The Herald\", Joseph Gutheinz, Jr., a retired NASA Office of Inspector General Senior Special Agent, voiced his support for McKinnon. Gutheinz, who is also an American criminal defence attorney and former Member of the Texas Criminal Justice Advisory Committee on Offenders with Medical and Mental Impairments, said that he feared Gary McKinnon would not find justice in the USA, because \"the American judicial system turns a blind eye towards the needs of the mentally ill\".\n\nWeb and print media across the UK were critical of the extradition.\n\nJanis Sharp, McKinnon's mother, stood as an independent candidate in the 2010 general election in Blackburn in protest against the sitting Labour MP Jack Straw, who was Foreign Secretary when the extradition treaty was agreed. She finished last out of eight candidates with 0.38% of the vote.\n\nOn 20 July 2010, Tom Bradby, ITN's political editor, raised the Gary McKinnon issue with U.S. President Barack Obama and Prime Minister David Cameron in a joint White House press conference who responded that they had discussed it and were working to find an 'appropriate solution'.\n\nIn August 2009, Pink Floyd's David Gilmour released an online single, \"Chicago - Change the World\", on which he sang and played guitar, bass and keyboards, to promote awareness of McKinnon's plight. A re-titled cover of the Graham Nash song \"Chicago\", it featured Chrissie Hynde and Bob Geldof, plus McKinnon himself. It was produced by long-time Pink Floyd collaborator Chris Thomas and was made with Nash's support.\n\nMcKinnon has admitted in many public statements that he obtained unauthorised access to computer systems in the United States including those mentioned in the United States indictment. He states his motivation, drawn from a statement made before the Washington Press Club on 9 May 2001 by \"The Disclosure Project\", was to find evidence of UFOs, antigravity technology, and the suppression of \"free energy\", all of which he states to have proven through his actions.\n\nIn an interview televised on the BBC's \"Click\" programme, McKinnon stated that he was able to get into the military's networks simply by using a Perl script that searched for blank passwords; in other words his report suggests that there were computers on these networks with the default passwords active.\n\nIn his interview with the BBC, he also stated of \"The Disclosure Project\" that \"they are some very credible, relied-upon people, all saying yes, there is UFO technology, there's anti-gravity, there's free energy, and it's extraterrestrial in origin and [they've] captured spacecraft and reverse engineered it.\" He said he investigated a NASA photographic expert's claim that at the Johnson Space Center's Building 8, images were regularly cleaned of evidence of UFO craft, and confirmed this, comparing the raw originals with the \"processed\" images. He stated to have viewed a detailed image of \"something not man-made\" and \"cigar shaped\" floating above the northern hemisphere, and assuming his viewing would be undisrupted owing to the hour, he did not think of capturing the image because he was \"bedazzled\", and therefore did not think of securing it with the screen capture function in the software at the point when his connection was interrupted.\n\nIn 2006, a Freedom of Information Act request was filed with NASA for all documents pertaining to Gary McKinnon. NASA's documents consisted of printed news articles from the Slashdot site, but no other related documents. This was consistent with NASA employees browsing internet articles about Gary McKinnon; the records of such browsing activity are in the public domain.\n\nThe FOIA documents have been uploaded to the Internet for review and can be downloaded.\n\nOn 12 December 2007, BBC Radio 4 broadcast a 45-minute radio play about the case, \"The McKinnon Extradition\" by John Fletcher. It was re-broadcast on 2 September 2008. It was directed by Pete Atkin and produced by David Morley.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2010497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010497", "title": "Abandze", "text": "Abandze\n\nAbandze is a small town near the Atlantic Ocean coast of Ghana, lying north-east of Cape Coast in the Central Region of Ghana. In 2010, the town had a population of 3,632. It grew around the Dutch Fort Amsterdam, established in 1598. The fort was rebuilt as the British settlement in the region, renamed \"Fort York\", in 1645. It was then recaptured by the Dutch in 1665 and reverted to its original name, mirroring the British takeover of New Amsterdam which renamed that settlement New York. Long since disused, the fort has since been partially restored and is sometimes known as \"Fort Kormantin\".\nMajority of the people who live at Abandze are fisher men and women.\n"}
{"id": "2010503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010503", "title": "Simon Murray (businessman)", "text": "Simon Murray (businessman)\n\nSimon Murray, CBE (born 25 March 1940) is a Hong Kong-based British businessman, adventurer, author, and former French Foreign Legionnaire. He was the oldest man to reach the South Pole unsupported, at the age of 63.\n\nMurray was born in Leicester, England into a family with some tradition of military service. His father belonged to a wealthy family. Murray's grandfather on his father's side retained a permanent suite at the Connaught Hotel, while his grandmother retained a similar suite at Claridges Hotel. Murray's father abandoned the family early on and Murray claims to have had no recollection of him at that time. An uncle paid for Murray to attend Bedford School, an independent school in Bedford in Bedfordshire. In 1960, he joined the French Foreign Legion, and served for five years in the 2nd Foreign Parachute Regiment (2e REP). During his service, he fought in the Algerian War against the Front de Libération National (FLN). After rising to the rank of Chief Corporal, he turned down an offer to attend Officers' School in France, and left the Legion in 1965 after completing his service. He wrote of his experiences in the Legion in the book \"Legionnaire\", published in 1978. And later, based on his book he produced the autobiographical movie \"Deserter\" which only came as a DVD.\n\nOn leaving the Foreign Legion in 1965, he got married and moved to Hong Kong where he worked for Jardine Matheson for fourteen years. After that, he left to start his own company, Davenham Investments, a project advisory company. N.M.Rothschild took a 50% stake in Davenham. Amongst many high-profile deals, Davenham went on to represent Mitsui in the Singapore Mass Transit Railway project.\n\nIn 1984, Davenham was sold to Li Ka-Shing for US$20 million as a precursor to Murray becoming group managing director of Hutchison Whampoa. He stayed for ten years, initiating Hutchison's acquisition of Hong Kong Electric, and negotiating their entry into the oil business through their acquisition of Husky Oil. Whilst CEO of Hutchison, he founded a mobile phone company and, after turning it into the global brand \"Orange\", it was sold in 1999 for US$36 billion to Mannesmann.\n\nFrom 1994 to 1998, Simon was the Executive Chairman of the Deutsche Bank Group in Asia. He then established his own company, General Enterprise Management Services Ltd (GEMS), a mid-sized investment group operating across Asia. In addition to this Simon was a founder of Distacom which made a number of mobile telecoms investments including Madacom in Madagascar, Spice Telecom in India and Sunday Communications in Hong Kong. He has also invested in other mobile operations in New Zealand, San Marino, Papua New Guinea and elsewhere.\n\nMurray was the chairman of Glencore from 2011 to 2013. He remarked, in April 2011, shortly after joining, that he was not keen to hire young women there because they were likely to get married and get pregnant. He was subsequently forced to issue a \"humbling apology\".\n\nHe was chairman of Gulf Keystone Petroleum from 2013 to 2015. He has served on boards and held advisory positions with a number of other large companies, including Vodafone, Tommy Hilfiger Corporation, Vivendi Universal, Usinor SA, Hermes, General Electric (USA), China National Offshore Oil Corporation (CNOOC), Macquarie Bank, N.M. Rothschild, and Bain (the consultancy company). He continues to serve on the advisory board of Lightbridge Corporation (USA), and was on the Development Advisory Board of Imperial College, London.\n\nMurray is currently the Executive Chairman of GEMS, and a board director of Cheung Kong Holdings Ltd, Orient Overseas (International) Ltd, Wing Tai Properties Ltd, Arnhold Holdings Ltd, Richemont SA, Essar Energy plc, Omnicorp Ltd and IRC Ltd.\n\nFollowing a suggestion by his wife, Murray joined Pen Hadow for a trek to the Geographic South Pole. The 1,200 km trek started in early December 2004 at Hercules Inlet on the Zumberge Coast, Antarctica and was completed when they reached the South Pole about two months later. They climbed up to 2,835 m above mean sea level on the way. Murray became the oldest man to reach the South Pole unsupported.\n\nHe has been appointed a CBE (Commander of the Order of the British Empire) by H.M. The Queen, and the Order of Merit of the French Republic and is a \"Chevalier de La Legion d’Honneur\". He holds an honorary degree in law, from the University of Bath and attended the (SEP) Stanford Executive Program in the US.\n\nIn the 80's, Murray presented a documentary on the French Foreign Legion, where he explained the traditions and folklore that surround this elite force. He also appeared and contributed on the documentary series Escape to the Legion and Weaponology.\n\nIn 1965, he married his long-time girlfriend, pilot Jennifer (formerly Jennifer Mather), with whom he has three children and six grandchildren. She was the first woman to fly around the world in a helicopter.\n\n"}
{"id": "2010505", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010505", "title": "Princes Town, Ghana", "text": "Princes Town, Ghana\n\nPrinces Town or Pokesu is located 5 km east of Fort St. Antonio on Manfro Hill in the Ahanta West District of the Western Region of south Ghana. It lies between Axim to the west and Sekondi-Takoradi to the east. On 1 January 1681, a Brandenburger expedition of two ships commanded by Otto Friedrich von der Groeben, arrived in the Gold Coast, and began to build a strong fort between Axim and the Cape of Three Points. The fort was completed in 1683 and was renamed Fort Fredericksburg (German \"Gross-Friedrichsburg\") in honour of Prince Frederick William I, Elector of Brandenburg. Because the fort was named after a Prince, it has been referred to as Princes Town. The fort was to be the headquarters of the Brandenburgers in Africa.\n\nIn 1708, an Akan merchant, John Canoe learned that the Germans were going to sell the fort to the Dutch. In protest, he began a resistance that managed to stave off fleets of battleships for almost 20 years. The fort was eventually captured in 1725 by the Dutch and renamed \"Hollandia\". Because John Canoe was successful in retaining control of the fort, inhabitants looked upon him as a hero. In 1872, the Dutch ceded the fort to Britain and in 1957, the fort became part of the newly independent country of Ghana.\n\nThe Fort Fredericksburg was built of stone transported by sea between 1681 and 1683 from Prussia and is one of two German forts built in Ghana, the other being Fort Dorothea. It is estimated that some 300,000 Africans were transported through this fort. The remains of John Canoe are a mystery. Some have said he was captured after having lost the battle of the fort while others have said his remains are in the Tafo Cemetery in Kumasi.\n\n\"Junkanoo\" (pronounced \"John Canoe\") festivals such as Mardi Gras are held annually in the coastal outlines of North Carolina, in Jamaica and the Bahamas.\n\nList of sister cities of Princes Town, designated by Sister Cities International:\n\n"}
{"id": "2010506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010506", "title": "Don Pablo's", "text": "Don Pablo's\n\nDon Pablo’s was an American chain of Tex-Mex restaurants founded in Lubbock, Texas, in 1985. The menu features Tex-Mex items, made-from-scratch salsa, tortillas and sauces, and a range of other Mexican specialties. At one time, this chain had as many as 120 locations throughout the United States and was the second largest full-service Mexican restaurant chain within the United States during the late 1990s, second only to Chi-Chi's. The chain had 34 restaurants in 14 states when it was acquired in 2014 by Food Management Partners. By October 2016, the chain was reduced to 12 restaurants in 9 states, 6 restaurants in 4 states by July 2018, 5 restaurants in 3 states by September 2018, and later 3 restaurants in 3 states by November 2018. The remaining restaurants in the struggling chain gradually and quietly closed over the next seven months until the last restaurant in Deptford Township, New Jersey, finally closed on June 23, 2019.\n\nThis chain of Tex-Mex restaurants was started by Texas-based DF&R Restaurants Inc. in 1985. After a period of rapid growth throughout the state of Texas, Don Pablo's began to build new locations in the Midwest. By 1995, DF&R had 51 Don Pablo's locations.\n\nThis successful growth was noticed by Madison, Georgia-based Apple South, which bought DF&R in 1995. At the time of the purchase, Apple South was one of the largest franchise holders in the Applebee's restaurant system with 170 Applebee's restaurants, along with operating restaurants from other franchise chains, with most of the properties located in the South and Midwest. Two years later, Apple South decided to divest all of its 264 Applebee's franchises (in a franchise system that had 960 units), along with its other franchise properties, to focus its efforts on the 120-unit Don Pablo's and the other company-owned chains. Shortly after the Applebee's restaurant divesture, Apple South changed its name to Avado Brands to emphasise the change of business.\n\nThings did not go as well as Avado had originally planned, and it filed for bankruptcy in 2004. At that time, it had 106 Don Pablo's. Avado exited bankruptcy a year later with 96 Don Pablo's in operation. After spending two years trying to revitalize the brand, Avado filed for bankruptcy for the second time in September 2007 and subsequently closed or sold about half of its 90 locations.\n\nIn February 2008, 41 Don Pablo's locations were acquired by Rita Restaurant Corporation of Madison, Georgia, a fully owned subsidiary of DDJ Capital Management of Waltham, Massachusetts. Rita tried to revitalize the brand by closing under-performing locations and selling franchises. A franchise was sold to a Florida-based operator who re-opened a Don Pablo's in Sarasota, Florida, in 2012. The Sarasota location was the sole remaining franchise until it was finally closed in 2015.\n\nIn 2014, the 34-unit chain was acquired by San Antonio-based Food Management Partners (FMP). FMP is also a franchise operator of Buffalo Wild Wings and several Italian restaurant chains. While FMP owned the company, locations were closed in February 2014 at Atlanta, Georgia; in August 2014 at Hobart, Indiana; in February 2015 at Canton, Ohio; in April 2015 at Flint, Michigan; in February 2016 at Greenville, South Carolina and Maple Grove, Minnesota; in August 2016 at Richfield, Minnesota and Newport, Kentucky; and in September 2016 at Beavercreek, Ohio and Owings Mills, Maryland.\n\nOn October 4, 2016, Rita Restaurant Corporation filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy after nearly cutting the number of Don Pablo's locations in half. At the time of the bankruptcy announcement, all four Indianapolis-area locations along with locations in Battle Creek, Michigan and Toledo, Ohio were immediately closed with little advance warning. At the time of the bankruptcy filing, there were 12 restaurants remaining. By November 2016, the Alexandria, Virginia location quietly disappeared from the Don Pablo's website. The Eden Prairie, Minnesota location quietly disappeared from the Don Pablo's website sometime between February and July 2017. The contents of the Eden Prairie restaurant was auctioned off in March. The Shelby Charter Township, Michigan location disappeared from the Don Pablo's website sometime between July 8 and July 19. In February 2018, the Don Pablo's location in Lafayette, Indiana quietly closed to leave 8 remaining locations.\n\nIn April 2018, the Grand Prairie, Texas location quietly closed its doors to leave the number of locations at 7 by May 2018.\n\nIn July 2018, the Norwood, Ohio location closed its doors to leave a total number of 6 locations. At the time of the closing, the remaining locations were in the states of Delaware, New Jersey, Maryland, and Texas. Two months later, the Christiana, Delaware restaurant was closed in September 2018 to leave just 5 restaurants in three states..\n\nIn early November 2018, the Moorestown, New Jersey, restaurant closed for the final time and about the same time, the listing for the Fort Worth, Texas, restaurant disappeared from the Don Pablo's website to leave three locations in the states of Maryland, New Jersey, and Texas remaining in the failing chain. Just two and a half weeks later, the Baltimore location, the last location in Maryland, was closed just days before Thanksgiving while the last Don Pablo's restaurant in Texas also disappeared from the website, leaving Deptford Township, New Jersey as the last one in business. The Deptford location finally closed in June 2019.\n\n"}
{"id": "2010514", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010514", "title": "Naval Aircraft Factory N3N", "text": "Naval Aircraft Factory N3N\n\nThe Naval Aircraft Factory N3N was an American tandem-seat, open cockpit, primary training biplane aircraft built by the Naval Aircraft Factory (NAF) in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, during the 1930s.\n\nBuilt to replace the Consolidated NY-2 and NY-3, the N3N was successfully tested as both a conventional airplane and a seaplane. The seaplane used a single float under the fuselage and floats under the outer tips of the lower wing. The conventional airplane used a fixed landing gear. The prototype XN3N-1 was powered by a radial Wright designed Wright J-5 engine. An order for 179 production aircraft was received. Near the end of the first production run the engine was replaced with the Wright R-760-2 Whirlwind radial. The aircraft is constructed of metal using bolts and rivets rather than the more common welded steel tubing fuselages. Early production models used aluminum stringers formed for cancelled airship construction orders.\n\nThe N.A.F. delivered 997 N3N aircraft beginning in . They included 180 N3N-1s and 816 N3N-3s. Four N3N-3s were delivered to the United States Coast Guard in . Production ended in January 1942 but the type remained in use through the rest of World War II. The N3N was the last biplane in US military service - the last (used by the U.S. Naval Academy for aviation familiarization) were retired in 1961. The N3N was also unique in that it was an aircraft designed and manufactured by an aviation firm wholly owned and operated by the U.S. government (the Navy, in this case) as opposed to private industry. For this purpose, the U.S. Navy bought the rights and the tooling for the Wright R-760 series engine and produced their own engines. These Navy built engines were installed on Navy built airframes.\n\nPostwar, many surviving aircraft were sold on the US civil aircraft market and bought for operation by agricultural aerial spraying firms and private pilot owners. A number are still (2014) active in the USA.\n\n\n\n\nCommunications were done by the instructor through a speaking tube to the student in the front cockpit. Communications back were agreed-upon gestures.\n\n"}
{"id": "2010516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010516", "title": "Akram Assem", "text": "Akram Assem\n\nAssem Akram (born 1965) is an Afghan historian, and author from Kabul, Afghanistan.\n\nAkram holds a PhD in history from the University of Paris.\n\n"}
{"id": "2010517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010517", "title": "Paga", "text": "Paga\n\nPaga is a small town in Upper East region of Ghana, lying north of Bolgatanga. Paga is the capital of Kassena Nankana West District, a district in the Upper East region of north Ghana. The town is located on the border of Burkina Faso and is 166 km south of Ouagadougou via the N5 highway, the main road linking Ghana and Burkina Faso.\n\nPaga is known for its sacred crocodile ponds, where most visitors are surprised that they can touch a live crocodile. Paga is a small town in the Upper East Region, and has a population of about 10,000. However, the entire population of Paga – including its outskirts – is over 100,000. Most of the inhabitants are farmers of the Kassena ethnic group, whose settlements and familial ties stretch over the colonial borders of Ghana into what is now Burkina Faso. The idea of different nationalities mean little to these people, who see their shared ancestry and ethnicity before what is the recent concept of nationality or religion. Many Kassenas in this small town Paga are multilingual, speaking their native Kasem and English among other languages.\nAccording to legend, Paga was founded c. 1400 by a young man named Naveh, who was saved by a crocodile while on a hunting expedition. He then left his village and settled in the place which is now Paga. The founder of the town, Naveh, when searching for a desirable place to settle, exclaimed 'Ayipaga' which means 'My eye is fixed on this land'. The place came to be called by that name, which in due course was shortened to 'Paga'.\n\n"}
{"id": "2010518", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010518", "title": "Royal Economic Society", "text": "Royal Economic Society\n\nThe Royal Economic Society (RES) is a professional association that promotes the study of economic science in academia, government service, banking, industry, and public affairs. Originally established in 1890 as the British Economic Association, it was incorporated by royal charter on December 2, 1902. The society is a charity registered with the U.K. Charity Commission under charity number 231508.\n\nThe society is led by an Executive Committee that is responsible for developing and executing the society's policies and activities. The Society's current president is Prof Carol Propper. In addition, the RES supports a number of committees, including the Women’s Committee and the Conference of Heads of University Departments of Economics (CHUDE).\n\nThe RES has two peer-reviewed publications: \"The Economic Journal\", first published in 1891, and \"The Econometrics Journal\", first published in 1998. Both journals are available online through the RES website. The Society's other activities include an annual conference, providing grants for training and special projects, and conducting various outreach activities, including an annual public lecture and an essay competition for young economists.\n\nIn 2017, the society created a centralised office in Westminster, London, and appointed its first Chief Executive, Leighton Chipperfield. In 2019, the Society launched a new strategy with a greater focus on promoting the discipline and improving diversity. The RES subsequently announced the launch of Discover Economics, a campaign geared to changing perceptions of economics among young people and attracting students from under-represented groups\n\nBritish Economic Association was founded in response to changing attitudes towards economics in the 1880s. Up until that point, the study of economics was typically taught as part of a broad curriculum, alongside subjects such as history and philosophy, and those engaging in the study of economics came from a number of professions and academic disciplines. Towards the end of the nineteenth century, there were academic movements to clearly demarcate and to define disciplines as scholarly subjects in their own right. For example, those in the fields of history and philosophy inaugurated such journals as \"The English Historical Review\" (1886) and \"Mind\" (1887), publications aimed mainly at their respective areas of study. Economic thinkers followed this example.\n\nThe same period also saw the revival of fundamentalist, socialist critique of economics. In order to protect the discipline from damaging criticism while still encouraging intellectual discussion, many economic thinkers strove to draw economics more decidedly within the realm of scholarly debate.\n\nThe establishment of an economic society in this era of change indicated a desire to strengthen economics as a well-respected academic discipline, and to encourage debate and research between specialist scholars. In an announcement to the American Economic Association dated 1887 which proposed the formation of an Economic Society in Britain, scholars acknowledged common criticisms of economics and the contemporary disunity in the discipline. They called for a society which would aim to advance theory, consolidate economic opinion, encourage historical research, and critique industrial and financial policy.\n\nInitial proposals for a British Society of Economics were drafted as early as 1883. Discussion began between Herbert Somerton Foxwell and Sir Robert Harry Inglis Palgrave. Palgrave had suggested creating a society specializing in the publication of translations and reprints of significant economic works. However, Foxwell had a more ambitious scheme in mind - a society that published a quarterly journal along the lines of the \"Quarterly Journal of Economics\" or the \"Journal des Économistes\".\n\nThere is no doubt that Foxwell's plans were influenced by foreign models, such as the German body Verein für Socialpolitik, founded in 1887, the French journals, the \"Journal des Économistes\" and the \"Revue d'Economie Politique\" established in 1841 and 1887, and the American Economic Association inaugurated in 1885. Indeed, in 1887, Foxwell published an announcement in the Association’s publication saying \"it is scarcely doubtful that we shall shortly follow the lead so ably set us on your side of the Atlantic.\" As the discipline of economics was promoted and strengthened in America and Europe, scholars in the U.K. recognized an increasing urgency to ensure that British economic thought was represented. Certainly, Foxwell was not the only economist to propose the establishment of a scholarly journal in Britain. The \"Economic Review\" was established by scholars in Oxford in 1889, the year before the British Economic Association was inaugurated in London, and its publication, \"The Economic Journal\", was set up.\n\nWhile there was a recognized need for a society of economists in the 1880s, it took a considerable time for Foxwell’s plans to come to fruition. One of the reasons for the delay was Alfred Marshall (1842-1924), Professor at Cambridge. Foxwell and Palgrave were keen to involve Marshall in the development of the association and its publication. Marshall was fully supportive of their plans, but as preparations progressed, he became preoccupied in completing his \"Principles of Economics\". His former pupil, Edward Gonner, tried to encourage Marshall to participate in discussions to finalise the society but was unable to drive Marshall to action. He remarked to Foxwell that:\n\n... for the next two years or so the matter must rest in abeyance unless active measures be taken. Of course, I know he will be glad if such be done and I am sure he will render assistance but he will not take the initiative.\n\nGonner and Foxwell had to move on with the foundation of the society without Marshall. Marshall was only drawn back into the discussion when proposals for the nature of the society did not meet his approval.\n\nThere had been much debate about what kind of society should be formed. Palgrave, Foxwell, and Marshall had discussed the idea that an economic journal should be attached to the Royal Statistical Society. But after some negative discussions with the society, the idea was dropped. Marshall had hoped the group would come together naturally, centred around scholars at Cambridge. Gonner, however, wanted the society to be an honoured institution of scholars. He argued that members should be selected \"not for an interest in economics but for work.\" \"Some scientific qualification\" should also be essential for membership. Foxwell seems to have agreed with this approach. However, Marshall opposed the idea. He explained to Foxwell: \"I don’t want to include 'mere' businessmen. But I don’t want to exclude Bank Directors and others of the class who are for me, at least, the most interesting members of the Political Economy Club...It is men of affairs from whom I learn\". Marshall succeeded in persuading his friends. At its inauguration the society was made available to all those with an interest in economics, regardless of their scholarly qualifications.\n\nThe inclusive attitude of society membership was also extended to the aims of its proposed journal. It was agreed that the publication should provide a forum for all views and opinions. The criteria for selection in the journal would be scholarly excellence, not political or scholarly persuasion. However, there was much difficulty in finding a suitable editor to manage such a journal. Foxwell had favoured the appointment of John Neville Keynes as editor, but he was not available. Foxwell admitted that without Keynes, the appointment was a difficult one:\n\n...any number of men with strong views will volunteer, but these are just the persons we don’t want. We want cool heads, keen brains and impartial judgement. With these are required scholarship, information and, if possible, a knowledge of German. It seems to me a most difficult and delicate post.\n\nThe search for an editor caused serious delays. It was not until 1890, the year of the society’s inauguration, that Francis Ysidro Edgeworth was appointed editor. Edgeworth held a chair in Economics at King's College London and was appointed Drummond Professor of Political Economy at Oxford University in 1891. Though his academic standing made him an excellent candidate for the role, Edgeworth admitted the difficulties of establishing a new journal:\n\nI wrote to Marshall asking advice on every small difficulty which arose, until he protested that, if the correspondence was to go on at that rate, he would have to use envelopes with my address printed on them.\n\nDespite initial difficulties, Edgeworth’s editorship was highly successful and he remained editor for the next 34 years.\n\nAfter years of discussion and delay, the British Economic Association (BEA) was inaugurated at University College London on 20 November 1890. Alfred Marshall wrote a letter of invitation to scholars and businessmen interested in economics, drawing around 200 people to the meeting. In the letter, Marshall set out the central aims of the society, to encourage debate and enable the dissemination of economic research through the medium of a British academic journal.\n\nAttendees unanimously showed their support for the plans. Edgeworth was formally appointed as editor of \"The Economic Journal\". George Goschen, Second Viscount Goschen, the statesman and businessman, was selected as president of the society.\n\nGeorge Bernard Shaw politely questioned the suitability of \"a gentleman who was identified with any political party in the state\" as head of the society, but Marshall responded:\n\nI am one of those who am not in political support of Mr. Goschen. I believe all agree with me that since we cannot have an economist who has no political opinions at all; we could not have a better President than Mr. Goschen.\n\nAfter the elections, the BEA wasted no time in carrying out its aims to publish a journal. The first issue of \"The Economic Journal\" was printed in March 1891, with the editor’s promise that:\n\nThe most opposite doctrines may meet here as on a fair field...Opposing theories of currency will be represented with equal impartiality. Nor will it be attempted to prescribe the method, any more than the result, of scientific investigation.\n\nWhile \"The Economic Journal\" provided an outlet for the scholarly assessment of economic theory and policy, and helped to establish economics as a distinct and significant area of research, the BEA was slow to make an impact on the development of economics in other areas. As president, Goschen demonstrated a vehement desire to improve the status of economics in public opinion. At the inaugural council meeting, he warned of a \"general idea that economists had finished their proper work in the education of the nation.\" At the BEA annual dinner in 1895, he argued that economics \"was not treated with the respect accorded to other sciences.\"\n\nBut despite Goschen’s vocal concern, the BEA could not make an immediate impact. The council made a bid to the Council of Legal Education to add economics to its subject of instruction, but failed to succeed in this endeavour.\n\nThe slow progress of the BEA in its early years may be explained by the difficulties in establishing a financially viable association and journal. Membership fluctuated considerably in the first ten years, rising to a high of 750 members in 1893-4 before falling by around 40 per cent between 1892 and 1900. During this period, it was necessary to reconsider the printing arrangements of the Journal to ensure the financial stability of the association. In time, the association established itself as a stable and successful economic institution. By the beginning of World War II, membership had risen to over 4,500 under the management of John Maynard Keynes. Aside from the impact of successive presidents and editors, it is possible that the application for royal charter in 1900 had some effect on this gradual improvement, establishing the BEA as a well-respected and significant economic institution.\n\nThe secretary of the BEA, Henry Higgs, proposed that the council apply for royal charter ten years after its inauguration. Ten volumes of the \"Economic Journal\" were presented to King Edward VII, with the request that he become Patron of the Society. Royal charter was duly granted on 2 December 1902. The charter indicated the society’s work to further economic science, its collection of a specialist library and its publication of a journal, saying:\n\nAnd whereas in order to secure the property of the said society, to extend its operations, and to give it its due position among the Scientific Institutions of Our Kingdom, we have been besought to grant George Joachim Viscount Goschen, and to those who now are members of the said society, or who shall from time to time be elected Fellows of the Royal Economic Society hereby incorporated, Our Royal Charter of Incorporation for the purposes aforesaid.\n\nThe British Economic Association, on accepting the royal charter, became the Royal Economic Society.\n\nThe Royal Economic Society has supported the study of economics through engagement in a variety of activities.\n\nPalgrave had been keen to establish the publication of economic works from the society's very inception. The RES has supported a number of such publications; for example, the works and correspondence of David Ricardo,<ref name=\"RES Archive at LSE RES_10/2\">RES Archive at LSE RES_10/2 British Library of Political and Economic Science. Retrieved 17 June 2013.</ref> Alfred Marshall's \"Principles of Economics\", \"Centenary Essays\" and \"Correspondence\", the \"Essay on the Principle of Population\", \"Principles of Political Economy\", and \"Travel Diaries\" of T. R. Malthus, Francis Ysidro Edgeworth's \"Mathematical Psychics\" and \"Papers on Political Economy\" and Hiroshi Mizuta’s work on Adam Smith’s library. The society also published \"The Economic Advisory Council: A Study of Economic Advice During Depression and Recovery\" by Susan Howson and Donald Winch.\n\nThe preservation of the history of economics was also at the forefront of the Royal Economic Society’s activities from its early years. The council funded the repair of Adam Smith’s grave in 1942 and organized the cleaning of Malthus’ memorial in the 1960s. In 1972, it supported the organization of a bicentennial Exhibition on Ricardo at the Drapers Company. The society also took a great interest in recording its own history. In the 1960s, the society liaised with A.W. Coats, providing him with archival access to help with the writing of his paper, \"Origins and Early Development of the Royal Economic Society\", which was published in \"The Economic Journal\". In 1990, John Hey and Donald Winch co-edited \"A Century of Economics: 100 Years of the Royal Economic Society and the Economic Journal\" to celebrate the centenary of the society and the journal. The RES also gave support and sponsorship to the publication of the \"Guide to Archive Sources\" in the 1970s, a volume which became the basis for a website on economists' papers from the years 1750-2000.\n\nThe society supported contemporary economic research by hosting specialist conferences on varied topics including Decision Analysis (1973), Wages and Unemployment (1981), and Exchange Rate Systems (1986). Today, the RES conference is an annual event, attracting over 400 presenters speaking on varied topics over several days.\n\nThe RES established activities to support economists at every stage in their career. The RES Annual Policy Lecture, established in 2001, aimed to expose sixth form students and members of the general public to the research of top economists. The Young Economist of the Year essay competition initiated in 2007, its purpose being to encourage young students to think critically about key economic issues. The Austin Robinson Prize (2007), given to the best paper published in \"The Economic Journal\" by an author within five years of completing their Ph.D., was instituted to support the development of early-career scholars. The RES Prize (1990), given annually to the best paper published in \"The Economic Journal\", was set up to celebrate the work of established economists. In 1987, the Conference Heads of University Departments of Economics was established to bring together heads of Economic departments with the aim of promoting the teaching and studying of Economics in the UK.\nIn addition to these initiatives, the RES founded the Women’s Committee in 1996, developed to promote the role of women in the UK economics profession, with a particular concern for career entrants.\n\nOne of the most significant of the Royal Economic Society’s recent activities was the inauguration of \"The Econometrics Journal\" (\"EctJ\") in 1998. Recognizing the need for a journal dedicated to econometric research, the RES established the \"EctJ\", with the aim of creating a top international field journal for the publication of macro- micro, and financial econometrics. In 2011 the editors of \"The Econometrics Journal\" initiated the annual Denis Sargan Econometrics Prize, awarded annually to the best article published in journal.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2010524", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010524", "title": "Naval Aircraft Factory XN5N", "text": "Naval Aircraft Factory XN5N\n\nnational\n\nThe Naval Aircraft Factory XN5N was a prototype United States monoplane trainer aircraft produced by the Naval Aircraft Factory in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania in 1941. A single prototype was built and evaluated.\n\nThe type was not placed in production.\n"}
{"id": "2010525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010525", "title": "Ilghazi", "text": "Ilghazi\n\nNajm ad-Din Ilghazi ibn Artuq (died November 8, 1122) was the Turkmen Artukid ruler of Mardin from 1107 to 1122.\nHis father Artuk Bey was the founder of the Artukid dynasty, and had been appointed governor of Jerusalem by the Seljuq emir Tutush. When Artuk died, Ilghazi and his brother Sökmen succeeded him as governors of Jerusalem. In 1096 Ilghazi allied with Duqaq of Damascus and Yaghi-Siyan of Antioch against Radwan of Aleppo; Duqaq and Radwan were fighting for control of Syria after the death of Tutush. Ilghazi and Dukak eventually quarrelled and Ilghazi was imprisoned, leading to the capture of Jerusalem by his brother Sökmen, but Ilgazi recovered the city when he was released. He held it until the city was captured by the Fatimid vizier of Egypt, al-Afdal Shahanshah, in 1098. After this he sought to make a name for himself in the Jezirah, where his brothers had also established themselves. He then entered the service of the Seljuq sultan Mahmud I, who granted him Hulwan and made him \"shihna\" of Baghdad, an office which oversaw the affairs of the caliph on behalf of the sultan. \n\nIlghazi was dismissed as \"shihna\" in 1104 and became leader of the Artukid family after the death of Sökmen that year. This was disputed by Sökmen's son Ibrahim, but Ilghazi took Mardin from him in 1108. As head of the Artukids he made no lasting alliances and frequently switched sides, allying with both fellow Muslims and Christian crusaders whenever he saw fit. In 1110 he participated in an unsuccessful siege of Edessa. In 1114 he and his nephew Balak (future emir of Aleppo) defeated the Seljuq governor of Mosul, Aqsunqur al-Bursuqi, and captured Mas'ud, son of the Seljuq sultan. In 1115 Ilghazi besieged Homs, but was captured briefly by its governor Khir-Khan. Later that year, Roger of Antioch, Baldwin I of Jerusalem, Pons of Tripoli, and Baldwin II of Edessa defended Antioch against the Seljuq general Bursuq ibn Bursuq (not to be confused with al-Bursuki), with the aid of Ilghazi, Toghtekin of Damascus, and Lulu of Aleppo, all enemies of Bursuk. These two armies did not come to battle, although Bursuk was later defeated by Roger at the Battle of Sarmin. \n\nIlghazi gained control of Aleppo after the assassination of Lulu in 1117. In 1118 he took control of Mayyafiriqin and pacified the surrounding countryside. In 1119 Ilghazi defeated and killed Roger at the Battle of Ager Sanguinis; Ibn al-Qalanisi describes the victory as \"one of the finest of victories, and such plenitude of divine aid was never granted to Islam in all its past ages.\" The Antiochene towns of Atharib, Zerdana, Sarmin, Ma'arrat al-Numan and Kafartab fell to his army. \"Il Ghazi, however, was unable to extract full profit from his victory. His prolonged drunkenness deprived his army of leadership, and left the Turkmens free to ... scatter after plunder.\"\n\nBaldwin II (now Baldwin II of Jerusalem) soon arrived to drive Ilghazi back, inflicting heavy losses on the Turks in the hard-fought Battle of Hab on August 14, 1119. The next year Ilghazi took Nisibin, and then pillaged the County of Edessa before turning north towards Armenia. In 1121 he made peace with the crusaders, and with supposedly up to 250 000 - 350 000 troops, including men led by his son-in-law Sadaqah and Sultan Malik of Ganja, he invaded Georgia. David IV of Georgia met him at the Battle of Didgori and Ilgazi was defeated. According to Matthew of Edessa 400 000 Seljuks were killed. Among the various leaders, only Ilghazi and his son-in-law Dubais escaped.\n\nIn 1122 Ilghazi and Balak defeated Joscelin I of Edessa and took him prisoner, but Ilgazi died in November of that year at Diyarbekir. He was buried at Mayyafariqin (Silvan today). Balak succeeded him in Aleppo and his sons Sulaiman and Timurtash succeeded him in Mardin. \n\nIbn al-Qalanisi is generally neutral on the character of Ilghazi, and describes only one \"disgraceful habit\" of the emir: \"Now when Ilghazi drank wine and it got the better of him, he habitually remained for several days in a state of intoxication, without recovering his senses sufficiently to take control or to be consulted on any matter or decision.\" The Antiochene chronicler Walter the Chancellor was at first also neutral towards Ilghazi, until the Battle of Ager Sanguinis, in which Walter himself was captured; Ilghazi (written as \"Algazi\" in Latin) is then described as a \"tyrant\" and the \"prince of the delusion and dissent of the Turcomans.\" Walter also remarks on Ilghazi's drunkenness.\n\nIlghazi married first Farkhunda Khatun, the daughter of Radwan of Aleppo, but he never actually met her and the marriage was never consummated. He then married the daughter of Toghtekin of Damascus and had the following children:\n\n\nHe also had a son, Umar, by a concubine, and Nasr, by a slave; another possible son was named Kirzil.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2010527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010527", "title": "Frank Swift", "text": "Frank Swift\n\nFrank Victor Swift (26 December 1913 – 6 February 1958) was an English footballer, who played as a goalkeeper for Manchester City and England. After starting his career with local clubs near his home town of Blackpool, in 1932 he was signed by First Division Manchester City, with whom he played his entire professional career.\n\nSwift broke into the Manchester City first team in 1933, taking part in the club's run to the 1934 FA Cup Final, where the club triumphed 2–1 against Portsmouth. Three years later Swift won a League Championship medal, after playing in every match of Manchester City's championship-winning season. War denied Swift several years of playing in his prime, though during wartime he was chosen to represent his country in international matches. After the war he made his competitive international debut, playing 19 internationals between 1946 and 1949.\n\nSwift retired in 1949, taking up a career in journalism as a football correspondent for the \"News of the World\". He died, aged 44, in the Munich air disaster after reporting on Manchester United's European Cup match against Red Star Belgrade.\n\nBorn in Blackpool, a coastal town in north-west England, Swift's first club was Blackpool Gas Works, where he worked as a coke-keeper. A spell at nearby Fleetwood followed, during which Swift attracted interest from a number of Football League clubs. Potential suitors included Blackpool (where Frank's elder brother Fred was the goalkeeper), Blackburn Rovers, Bradford City and Manchester City. The first to offer Swift a contract were Manchester City, who played in the First Division, the highest level of English football. Initially signed as an amateur in October 1932, eighteen-year-old Swift turned professional the following month, receiving a wage of ten shillings (50p) per week. The following December he was called up to the first team, having previously made only three reserve team appearances.\n\nAt this time, goalkeeper was an unsettled position for Manchester City. Len Langford had made over 100 appearances and had appeared in the 1933 FA Cup Final, which City lost 3–0 to Everton. He missed the final game of the 1932–33 season and the opening match of 1933–34, but went on to play 18 consecutive League games before injury on 16 December 1933 ended his time as City's first choice. Langford's replacement for the following game was James Nicholls, but he endured a torrid time as Manchester City lost 8–0 to Wolverhampton Wanderers. Consequently, Swift was given an opportunity for the Christmas double-header against Derby County. He conceded four goals in his debut at the Baseball Ground on 25 December, but in the return match the next day, his 20th birthday, he kept a clean sheet in a 2–0 win. After making his debut, Swift played in every first team match for more than four seasons, a run of more than 200 consecutive matches. His only absence prior to the suspension of football due to World War II was a single match in September 1938, where without Swift, Manchester City lost 6–1 at home to Millwall.\n\nThough Swift quickly established himself as a fixture in the Manchester City first team line-up, his performances were not all positive. In one of his early matches, against West Bromwich Albion, Swift conceded seven goals. This led Swift to believe he would not be picked again, but with Langford unavailable due to a knee injury, Swift kept his place.\n\nDespite inconsistency, Manchester City were one of the stronger sides of the 1930s, and in Swift's first season the club reached the FA Cup final for the second successive year. This period saw football match attendances reach an all-time high. During the cup run Swift played in front of 84,569 people for Stoke City's visit to Maine Road, a record attendance for an English club ground which still stands today. Hillsborough's attendance record of 72,841 (receipts £5,566) was also set by City during this Cup run. The semi-final, against cup favourites Aston Villa, ended in a 6–1 victory, a record for an FA Cup semi-final.\n\nIn the final, Manchester City faced Portsmouth. Swift, the youngest and most inexperienced of the team, was nervous. As the playing surface was wet, he was unsure whether or not to wear gloves. Seeing Portsmouth goalkeeper Jock Gilfillan take to the field without gloves, he decided to follow suit. Portsmouth took the lead in the first half through a Septimus Rutherford shot. At half time Swift slumped in the dressing room, blaming himself and his decision not to wear gloves for the goal. Forward Fred Tilson attempted to improve Swift's spirits by telling him not to worry as he would \"plonk two in next half\". Tilson duly scored two second half goals, the second with less than five minutes remaining. A tense finish followed, in which a photographer behind Swift's goal gave regular updates of the time remaining. At the final whistle, Swift was so overcome with emotion that he fainted. He recovered in time to receive his winners' medal from George V, who sent a telegram enquiring about his condition on the following Monday.\n\nManchester City started the 1936–37 season poorly, and were in the bottom half of the table until December. The club were better known for goalscoring than solid defence, but frequently both eluded City; at one point the club gained just one win in twelve matches. However, Christmas proved to be a turning point for the club. Swift conceded five goals in consecutive matches on 19 and 25 December, but a Boxing Day win against Middlesbrough was the start of a long unbeaten run. By April City were second in the table, and faced a fixture against Arsenal, league leaders and the dominant club of the period. Peter Doherty inspired the team to a 2–0 win, and City reached the top of the table. The unbeaten run continued until the end of the season, and City secured their first league championship with a 4–1 win over Sheffield Wednesday. City's third goal in this match came as the result of a long clearance by Swift, who was noted for the distance he could propel the ball.\n\nIn contrast to the championship win, the 1937–38 season was one of disappointment. Manchester City achieved several high scoring wins, including two 7–1 scorelines, but frequently stuttered to defeat. On the final day of the season the club faced Huddersfield Town, and went into the match four places clear of the relegation zone. A 1–0 defeat, coupled with wins for all four of the teams immediately below meant reigning champions City were relegated to the Second Division despite scoring more goals than any other team.\n\nDuring the Second World War, Swift continued to play regularly for City, making 134 wartime league appearances. He also joined the British Army, and was one several professional footballers to enlist at the Army School of Physical Training as part of a scheme devised by the FA. The school was based near Aldershot F.C. leading Swift to become one of several notable players to guest for the club. Others included Matt Busby, Jimmy Hagan, Joe Mercer, Stan Cullis, Cliff Britton and Tommy Lawton. He also guested for several other clubs during the war including Liverpool. He also played for several representative sides. On 30 October 1943 at Ninian Park, Swift played for a Western Command XI against a Cardiff City XI which featured Lawton and Mercer as guests. The game was a fundraiser for Royal Artillery prisoners of war. In April 1944 in Edinburgh he played for a British Army XI that included Jack Rowley, Leslie Compton, Cullis, Mercer, Hagan and Lawton and against a Royal Air Force XI that included Peter Doherty, Stanley Matthews and Ted Drake. The Army won 4–0. On 9 September 1944 at Windsor Park he played for a Combined Services XI in an 8–4 win against Ireland. This team was in effect a Great Britain XI and featured, among others, Busby, Matthews, Lawton, Mullen, Raich Carter and Stan Mortensen. In the same year he also represented an FA Services XI in games against France and Belgium. In May 1945 Swift also travelled with a British Army XI on a European tour.\n\nIn the first season after the Second World War, Manchester City won the Second Division championship to secure their return to the top flight. In the process Swift kept a club record 17 clean sheets in 35 appearances, a mark which was not surpassed until nearly 40 years later, when Alex Williams broke the record by keeping 20 clean sheets in 1985.\n\nBy 1949 Swift was 35 years old, but was still performing well enough to maintain his place in the England team. However, he decided that he wanted to retire while still capable of playing at the top level, rather than fading away. To this end he announced that he would retire at the end of the 1948–49 season. He made what he intended to be his last Manchester City appearance against Huddersfield Town on 7 May, which was followed by a parade in his honour organised by the Supporters' Club. However, just before the next season started, Swift's replacement Alec Thurlow fell ill with tuberculosis, and Swift agreed to step in until City found a new goalkeeper. Four further appearances took his career total to 338. Aware of attempts by other clubs to tempt Swift out of retirement, most notably by Manchester United, the Manchester City board continued to hold Swift's playing registration for several years.\n\nFollowing a period serving as a director of a local catering company, Swift took up a career in journalism, most notably with the \"News of the World\". He continued to be a regular visitor to Maine Road, and became the president of the Supporters' Club.\n\nSwift died, aged 44, in the Munich air disaster after reporting on Manchester United's European Cup match against Red Star Belgrade in Belgrade, Yugoslavia for the News of the World. On 6 February 1958, the flight back to Manchester carrying the Manchester United team and journalists made a refuelling stop at Munich-Riem Airport in poor weather. Two take-off attempts were abandoned due to engine problems, with the weather continuing to deteriorate. On the third attempt, slush on the runway prevented the aircraft from reaching the required speed for take-off. The plane veered off the runway and crashed into a house. One of 23 victims of the disaster, Swift was one of two journalists pulled alive from the wreckage but died on his way to hospital, as his seat belt had cut into his aorta.\n\nSwift is widely regarded as one of the best English goalkeepers of all time along with Gordon Banks and Peter Shilton and is frequently noted as one of the best players to have graced the English football league. His successor in the Manchester City team was fellow club and goalkeeping legend, Bert Trautmann.\n\nSwift was named as one of the \"Football League 100 Legends\" in 1998 celebrating 100 seasons of league football in England, alongside other Manchester City players Billy Meredith, Colin Bell and Bert Trautmann. He has also been inducted into the Manchester City Hall of Fame.\n\nSwift's first international call-ups came in the Second World War; he made 14 wartime appearances for England. The first official England international after the war took place on 28 September 1946 against Ireland, and Swift retained his place to make his full debut in a 7–2 victory. Swift became a fixture in the England side of the late 1940s, playing 17 consecutive matches. This run included the famous 1948 victory against Italy in Turin, where he became the first goalkeeper since Alexander Morten in 1873 to captain the side, leading him to describe the match as the greatest day of his career. Later that year he lost his place to Ted Ditchburn, despite keeping a clean sheet in his previous appearance. He was restored to the line-up the following match, a British Home Championship decider against Scotland. After announcing his retirement from football, he made a farewell appearance against Norway in May 1949 to take his number of caps to 19, after which the goalkeeper's jersey was taken by Bert Williams. Swift also represented Great Britain in a 1947 match against a \"Rest of Europe\" team, played to celebrate the return of the Home Nations to FIFA.\n\nRaich Carter once said of Frank Swift that he looked so big in goal that as a forward it often seemed that trying to score against him was like trying to put the ball into a matchbox. Swift's hands, which had a finger span of , were sufficiently large for him to easily pick up the ball with one hand, and gave rise to the nickname \"Frying Pan Hands\". Swift kicked with his left foot as the result of an injury to his right foot sustained during his youth. However, where possible he preferred throwing the ball to the wing over kicking it downfield. When asked for advice to give to young goalkeepers, Swift replied that he drew diagrams of each goal scored against him to see if he was at fault.\n\nSwift had three brothers, Cuthbert, Fred and Alf, and one sister, Alice. Fred, also a goalkeeper, played for Bolton Wanderers amongst others. The five grew up in a house a short walk from Blackpool's Bloomfield Road ground. During football's off-season, Frank and Alf ran boat trips off the Blackpool coast for tourists. On one such trip he met his future wife, Doris Potter. They married at Blackpool in 1935. They had a daughter, Jean, who was born in 1936, and a son, David, who was born in 1948.\n\nDuring wartime, Swift became a special constable with responsibility for traffic control. He was enrolled in the RAF, and travelled to France after the Invasion of Normandy, but was stationed well behind the front line and did not see combat. This did not prevent risk to his life, however, as in 1944 a Dakota on which he was a passenger was involved in a near miss.\n\nSeveral members of Swift's family attended the February 2008 Manchester derby, played in the week of the 50th anniversary of the Munich air disaster. The game, at Old Trafford, was won by Manchester City; the minute's silence was fully observed by the Manchester City fans. Towards the end of the game, the City fans chanted \"There's only one Frank Swift\" several times, to rounds of applause from the United fans.\n\n"}
{"id": "2010530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010530", "title": "Tia Maria", "text": "Tia Maria\n\nTia Maria is a dark liqueur made originally in Jamaica using Jamaican coffee beans, but now made in Italy. The main flavour ingredients are coffee beans, Jamaican rum, vanilla, and sugar, blended to an alcoholic content of 20%.\nThe historical fable of its origins dates it to the 18th century. A young Spanish girl was forced to flee Jamaica, and the family plantation during a conflict. She was accompanied by a sole female servant who carried a bit of jewelry and the recipe for the family liqueur. In honor of the woman's help, the girl named the liqueur \"Tia Maria\" (\"tia\" is Spanish for \"aunt\"), her name for the woman who had helped save her life. One account of its history says that a man named Dr. Evans discovered the drink after World War II, and he began reproducing it. This story of Dr. Evans' devotion to the drink is part of the official website's history, however. According to some sources, it was actually created in Jamaica in the 1930s. The Jamaican company Lascelles deMercado producer of Appleton Rum supposedly manufactured the concentrate from which the liqueur was made, at least, up until the time it was sold by Pernod. As recently as the 1980s, Tia Maria was made with an alcohol concentration of 31.5% and positioned as a premium liqueur compared to the substantially different product now produced at 20% ABV.\n\nThe \"Tia Maria\" brand was bought by Pernod Ricard through their Malibu-Kahlúa International subsidiary in 2005. It was sold to Illva Saronno in July 2009. Following the sale, Chivas Brothers produced it for Saronno before production was transferred to Illva Saronno's distillery in Saronno, Italy. Bacardi U.S.A., Inc. distributed it in the U.S. for Saronno. As of Aug. 1, 2012, Kobrand became the distributor.\n\nIt can be consumed pure and with ice, but is also frequently used as an ingredient for cocktails (of which the Espresso Martini is popular), with coffee. It may also be mixed with milk and ice.\n\nSome cocktails include Tia Espresso Martini, Dark Tia made with dark rum, Tia Maria and cola, or the Skinny Tia White Russian, made with skim milk and Tia Maria, with a splash of vodka. Another cocktail, known as an 'Orgasm', which is Tia Maria mixed in equal parts with Bailey's or another Irish Cream.\n"}
{"id": "2010548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010548", "title": "America Was Here", "text": "America Was Here\n\nHolidays in the Danger Zone: America Was Here is a four-part travel documentary on Central America and South East Asia, part of the \"Holidays in the Danger Zone\" series, produced and broadcast by BBC This World. Written and presented by Ben Anderson, and produced by Will Daws. It was first broadcast in Jun 2007, on BBC Four.\n\n\nIn the series, Anderson visits a series of countries that the United States has either invaded, interfered with or occupied during the Cold War.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2010550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010550", "title": "Pacific Grove Municipal Golf Links", "text": "Pacific Grove Municipal Golf Links\n\nPacific Grove Municipal Golf Links is a public 18-hole golf course owned by the city of Pacific Grove, California.\n\nOriginally designed by Chandler Egan in 1932, the first nine holes are laid out through the forested areas of Pacific Grove. The back nine was designed by Jack Neville, original designer of the Pebble Beach Golf Links in Pebble Beach, California, and overlook Point Pinos, where the Pacific Ocean and Monterey Bay meet on the northern tip of the Monterey Peninsula. The golf links is also site of the Point Pinos Lighthouse. The 18-hole golf course features a restaurant as well as a golf pro shop.\n\nPacific Grove Municipal Golf Links was ranked by Zagat Survey as one of America's Best Golf Courses and by Golf Magazine as One of the Nation's Top 50 Golf Courses Under $50.\n"}
{"id": "2010558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010558", "title": "Paolo", "text": "Paolo\n\nPaolo is both a given name and a surname, the Italian form of the name Paul. Notable people with the name include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2010570", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010570", "title": "John Pope Hennessy", "text": "John Pope Hennessy\n\nSir John Pope Hennessy, (8 August 1834 – 7 October 1891), was an Irish and British politician and colonial administrator who served as the eighth Governor of Hong Kong and the fifteenth Governor of Mauritius.\n\nJohn Pope Hennessy was born in County Cork, the son of John Hennessy of Ballyhennessy, and educated at Queen's College, Cork. He completed his medical training at Queen's University of Ireland.\n\nHe started his Public Service career as the Supplemental Clerk at the Privy Council, and eventually became a minor Conservative member of the British Parliament, representing King's County from 1859 to 1865. Whilst an MP he studied law at the Inner Temple, being called to the bar in 1861. In 1890, as MP for North Kilkenny he joined the Irish National Federation. He died the following year.\n\nHennessy eventually joined the Colonial Office and became colonial Governor of Labuan in 1867 where he put the Crown Colony into solvency by introducing convict labour from the Straits Settlements. He went on to become the Governor of Sierra Leone from 1872 to 1873, when he moved to the governorship of the Bahamas. He became Governor-in-Chief of the Windward Islands, from 1873 until 1877, with primary authority over Barbados, and executive oversight over the various British Lt. Governors and Administrators charged with running day-to-day affairs on the various islands.\n\nAlthough Hennessy was born into the Anglo-Irish landowning gentry, his status as a Roman Catholic made him something of an outsider, particularly in his dealings with Protestant British colonial elites, whether in Barbados, Hong Kong, or Mauritius. Indeed, his earliest contributions as a Member of Parliament in 1860 pertained to the temporal power of the Pope, and unfolding events in Italy. Coming into colonial administration, he was among a cohort of \"new thinkers\" whose ideas gained ground following the Sepoy Mutiny in India in 1857. Speaking at length in the House of Commons on 26 July 1860 about British civil and military forces in India, Hennessy urged a shift in policies so that \"the military administration of India would be conducted with greater skill, with more economy, and, as a natural result of a higher educational standard, with a greater regard for the feelings and interests of the Native population. Indeed, recent events furnished us with the most conclusive evidence that many of the British officers, entrusted with grave authority in India, had, from an ignorance of popular customs and a disregard of national habits and traditions, given great cause of complaint and encouragement to disaffection. As long as we send out officers to India who seem inclined to treat the Natives as slaves, who seem unable or unwilling to appreciate the noble qualities, of that unfortunate people, and who add the grossest military outrages and insults to the civil misgovernment and financial burdens we have imposed upon them, so long will our rule in India be a blot upon civilization\".\n\nImmediately after his tenure in Barbados, Hennessy was appointed as Governor of Hong Kong, a position from which he served until 1882.\n\nDuring his tenure, Hennessy realised that the Chinese people, who were treated as second-class citizens up to that time, had developed an increasingly important influence on the Hong Kong economy. With that in mind, he lifted the ban that forbade Chinese people from buying lands, constructing buildings, and operate businesses in the Central District. This caused a development boom in the Central District. Also, he allowed Chinese immigrants in Hong Kong to naturalise as British subjects. He appointed the first Chinese member (Ng Choy, who would later become the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of China) to the Legislative Council.\n\nAlso, during his rule, he established the first Grant-in-Aid system, a milestone in the educational history of Hong Kong.\n\nSoon after arriving in Hong Kong, in April 1877, Hennessy set out to implement the \"separate system\" in Victoria Gaol, meaning separate cells for prisoners, during the night if not also during the day. This plan hinged upon sending long-term prisoners to Labuan, for convict labour.\n\nAfter his tenure as Governor of Hong Kong was over, Hennessy went on to become the 15th Governor of Mauritius from 1 June 1883 to 11 December 1889. Upon his arrival on 1 June 1883 on the island, Hennessy undertook to mauricianise the local administration by reducing the powers of the English officials, appointing Mauritians to positions of responsibility and proposing a new constitution based on the principle \"Mauritius for Mauritians\". It was therefore natural that he moved closer to the Mauritian lawyer William Newton, leader of the reform movement who demanded a more direct involvement of settlers in the administration of their affairs. It was under Hennessy that Mauritius knew its first shudder of democracy. This was his last post in the Colonial Service.\n\nHennessy had two illegitimate daughters with his mistress, Miss A. M. Conyngham, before, on 4 February 1868, marrying Catherine \"Kitty\" Elizabeth Low (1850–1923), daughter of his predecessor (acting) Governor of Labuan. They had three sons, including Richard Pope-Hennessy. Richard had two sons, John Wyndham Pope-Hennessy (1913–1994) and James Pope-Hennessy, author of a biography, Verandah, in 1964.\n\nHis personal motto was \"Three Grand Qualifications to Success\", which he described as \"The first is audacity, the second is audacity, and the third is audacity\".\n\nHennessy died of heart failure on 7 October 1891 at his residence, Rostellan Castle, near Cork, Ireland.\n\n\nAs he was not popular among the European community of Hong Kong, there were no contemporary memorials there. However, on 14 June 1929, a main road located on the new reclamation was called Hennessy Road, and there is now also a crowded commercial and shopping area at Wan Chai and Causeway Bay on Hong Kong Island named after him. In Port Louis, capital of Mauritius, there is both a major street, Pope Hennessy Street, and a statue by M. Loumeau erected in 1908.. Hennessy Road, a street in civil lines, Nagpur, Maharashtra state, India is also named after him.\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "2010578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010578", "title": "Naval Aircraft Factory SBN", "text": "Naval Aircraft Factory SBN\n\nThe Naval Aircraft Factory SBN was a United States three-seat mid-wing monoplane scout bomber/torpedo aircraft designed by the Brewster Aeronautical Corporation and built under license by the Naval Aircraft Factory in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. The landing gear was similar to that on the Brewster F2A Buffalo fighter aircraft. The SBN had non-folding wings with perforated flaps.\n\nThe United States Navy issued specifications for a scout bomber in 1934 and Brewster won the competition. The Navy ordered one prototype, designated the XSBA-1, on 15 October 1934. It was a two-seat, single-engine monoplane with retractable landing gear and an internal bomb bay that could accommodate a 500-pound (227-kg) bomb. The crewman in the rear seat was armed with a flexible machine gun.\n\nThe prototype XSBA-1 first flew on 15 April 1936, and was delivered to the Navy for testing. With a Wright R-1820-4 Cyclone 770-horsepower (570-kilowatt) engine, it achieved a top speed of 254 mph (409 km/hr), with an estimated range of 1,000 miles at cruising speed. Some minor problems were found during testing and less than a year after its first flight, the aircraft was given a revised tail and rudder and a more powerful Wright R-1820-22 Cyclone 950-horsepower (710-kilowatt) engine, with which it reached a top speed of 263 mph (424 km/hr). At the time, it was believed to be the fastest single-engine bomber in the world.\n\nBecause of the pressures of developing and producing the Brewster F2A Buffalo fighter, Brewster was unable to manufacture any production models of the XSBA-1, and the Navy acquired a license to produce the aircraft itself at the Naval Aircraft Factory. In September 1938, the Navy placed an order for 30 production aircraft. Due to pressures of work at the NAF, it did not deliver the first aircraft, now designated the SBN, until November 1940; the remaining aircraft were delivered between June 1941 and March 1942.\n\nMost of the SBNs were delivered to Bombing Squadron 3 (VB-3) aboard the aircraft carrier . Obsolete before their delivery in 1941, some of the early production aircraft were used for carrier operations trials with Torpedo Squadron Eight (VT-8) in 1941 and then passed on for use as trainers aboard the aircraft carrier . None of the SBNs saw combat. With a lack of spare parts, the aircraft were withdrawn from service from August 1942.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2010590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010590", "title": "Decima Research", "text": "Decima Research\n\nDecima Research is a public opinion and market research company in Canada, founded in 1979 by Progressive Conservative Party of Canada strategist Allan Gregg.\n\nGregg left Decima in 1994 and went into semi-retirement following the electoral disaster for the Progressive Conservatives in the 1993 election in which he was the key communications strategist for the party. Decima floundered for several years but rebounded and is now an important polling firm on voting intentions in Canada. Along with Ipsos-Reid, Decima conducts regular polling of the federal political scene in Canada on a regular basis whether or not an election campaign is in progress.\n\n\"Decima Research\" is sometimes known as Opinion Search, which is technically the name of an affiliated calling centre that they always use for their field work.\n\nDecima research invests a significant amount of time and money into process improvement, and has a department dedicated solely to research and development. The investments related to internal systems spans both Decima and Opinion Search.\n\n"}
{"id": "2010592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010592", "title": "U.S. Route 48 (1926)", "text": "U.S. Route 48 (1926)\n\nU.S. Route 48 (US 48) was a route in Central California near the San Francisco Bay Area. Assigned in 1926, it ran from San Jose to French Camp. It was the first US highway to be deleted in California and was one of the first few US highways to be deleted in the US.\n\nUS 48 was a highway connecting the San Francisco Bay area with the San Joaquin Valley, traveling from San Jose to near Modesto, largely following the future routing of US 50, which replaced US 48. Its western terminus was located at former State Route 82 (SR 82), which was a former routing of US 101. From there, it head northeast on Downtown San Jose surface streets, roughly following the roads of Oakland Rd, Main St, and SR 238, eventually reaching the present day Interstate 580 (I-580), then east through the cities Pleasanton and Livermore on Castro Valley Rd, Dublin Canyon Rd, and Altamont Pass Rd. to the present-day separation between I-580 and I-205. From here, US 48 continued east on 11th St. (now I-205 Business (I-205 BUS)) through Tracy to former US 99W, now roughly I-5. It then followed US 99W northeast to Yosemite Ave, an old alignment of SR 120, where US 48 followed Yosemite Ave. to Main St, former US 99E, the location of its eastern terminus.\n\nA 1925 article published in California Highways, the publication of the California Division of Highways, stated that the western terminus of US 48 was in San Jose. At some point between then and 1930, the terminus may have been set back to Hayward. The route was renumbered to an extension of US 50, which was extended along US 48 east of present-day SR 238. The remainder of US 48 became US 101E, later SR 17, then I-880.\n\nThis table refers to the route as it was in 1926.\n\n"}
{"id": "2010594", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010594", "title": "Obuasi", "text": "Obuasi\n\nObuasi is a Mining Community and town in the southern part of Obuasi Municipal of the Ashanti Region of Ghana. Obuasi is the capital of the Obuasi Municipal which lies south of Ashanti capital city Kumasi 39 miles (59.4 kilometres) away south-west of Kumasi or 1 hour 2 minutes road-drive from Obuasi to Kumasi. Obuasi has a settlement population of 175,043 people. Obuasi gold bar mining community has delicate mosaic from the Ashanti people culture of Ashanti and the semi-island exclave Ashantiland. Obuasi wears a ring of hills as its adornment and Obuasi sits quietly albeit industriously on the soil that births the top-9 single richest bullion gold bar gold mining mining|mine on Earth the Obuasi Gold Mine.\n\nGold Coast region was named after the vast amount of bullion gold bars found in Obuasi and Ashanti.\n\nObuasi is known for its Obuasi Gold Mine, now one of the nine largest on Earth with bullion gold bars having been mined on the site since at least the seventeenth century.\n\nGus Casely-Hayford states the mine now extends 1,600 below ground, produces 2 million tons of ore per year, and pours one gold bar or ingot every day from its furnaces.\n\nObuasi train station is on the Ashanti railway line to and from Kumasi (39 miles or 59.4 kilometres or 1 hour 2 minutes south-west of Kumasi) and Obuasi also has an airstrip and airport.\n\nTourists can visit the town's mine by arranging with the Public Relations Directorate of Ashanti Goldfields Corporation (AGC). Operated by the Ashanti Goldfields Corporation (AGC), formerly the State-owned Ashanti company Ashanti Goldfields Corporation (AGC), it was the Ashanti Goldfields Corporation (AGC) company's largest mine until the AGC company merged in 2004 to create the Earth's second-largest gold producer, Anglo Gold Ashanti (AGA) with the merging of the South African company AngloGold.\n\nObuasi is the site of the Obuasi Senior High Technical School a mixed-sex educational second cycle public high school.\nChrist the King Catholic Senior High School, St. Margaret Senior High School, and the College of Integrated Health Care. Obuasi is the site for the Kwame Nkrumah University of Science and Technology (KNUST)-Obuasi Campus.\n\nObuasi has a semi-equatorial climate with two rainy seasons and a mean annual rainfall between 125mm and 175mm. The average annual temperature in Obuasi is 26.5 °C with highs of 30 °C and lows of 23 °C. Relative humidity is around 75% – 80% in the wet season. Summers in Obuasi are wet, while the winters months tend to be dry. The climate around Obuasi is Aw Tropical savanna climate in the Köppen-Geiger climate classification. Obuasi's yearly precipitation averages 1,450 mm.\n\nObuasi is also noted for its healthcare facilities, such as the AGA Hospital owned by the Anglo Gold corporation, and also for a private health facility, St. Jude Hospital, owned by Dr George Owusu-Asiedu. The facility is noted for many successful surgeries and numerous successful births at the maternity division of the hospital.\n\nObuasi has a golf course, and the Obuasi Ashanti Gold Sporting Club, a professional football club, is based at Obuasi's Len Clay Stadium.\n\nNotable people from Obuasi mining town include Sam E. Jonah (KBE) the former CEO of Ashanti Goldfields Company, Jonathan Mensah, Yaw Boakye Yiadom, and John Mensah.\n\nAs of 13 September 2008, Obuasi has been a sister city of Riverside, California, United States.\n\n"}
{"id": "2010595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010595", "title": "False Profits", "text": "False Profits\n\n\"False Profits\" is the 47th episode of \"\", the fifth episode of the . This is a science fiction television episode of the Star Trek franchise, that aired on UPN on October 2, 1996. This features special effect sequences of wormholes, shuttlecraft, and an inhabited exoplanet.\n\nThis has many guest stars that fill in as the inhabitants of the planet Voyager encounters.\n\nVoyager encounters two Ferengi aliens stranded in the Delta Quadrant, and this is noted a sequel to \"Star Trek: The Next Generation\"'s episode \"The Price\".\n\n\"Voyager\" discovers evidence of replicator technology on a pre-warp planet, which is reported as very unusual. Chakotay and Paris beam down to the planet to investigate. They discover two Ferengi (who first appeared in the \"\" episode \"\"), pretending to be prophets to the native people.\nWhen the Ferengi are beamed aboard USS \"Voyager\" they refuse to go back to the Alpha Quadrant, and Janeway is forced to return them to the planet. Meanwhile, a wormhole is detected and it is traced to the Alpha Quadrant, with the wormhole being the Barzan anomaly that the Ferengi had come through, years ago, and never returned through. This would be a shortcut home for \"Voyager\"; the only problem is that the Delta Quadrant side moves around erratically. Harry Kim and B'Elanna Torres work on a way to stabilize the wormhole while Neelix, disguised as a Ferengi, travels back to the planet. He pretends to be a representative (the \"Grand Proxy\") of the Ferengi ruler, the Grand Nagus, and demands the two return to the Alpha Quadrant.\n\nNeelix's ruse is uncovered and the Ferengi attempt to kill him. Neelix barely survives the assault and the natives uncover the situation. They become confused and declare all the \"Ferengi\", including Neelix, are to reach home by being burned alive. Neelix and the others are beamed away at the last moment and the natives are convinced their prophecy has come true.\n\nBack on \"Voyager\", the Ferengi manage to steal back their shuttlecraft, which \"Voyager\" had confiscated. They end up being sucked into the wormhole, which destabilizes to the point that it is worthless to \"Voyager\".\n\nIn 2017, \"Den of Geek\" included this on their abbreviated watch guide for \"Star Trek: Voyager\", picking out this episode on their cross-overs roadmap.\n\nIn 2017, Treknews.net felt this was one of the funniest episodes of all Star Trek, and likened the plot to that have another science fiction franchise, Stargate.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2010599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010599", "title": "Streets of Rage 2", "text": "Streets of Rage 2\n\nStreets of Rage 2, released in Japan as , is a side-scrolling beat 'em up video game published by Sega in 1992 for the Mega Drive/Genesis and developed by an ad hoc team of several companies: Sega, Ancient, Shout! Designworks, MNM Software and H.I.C. It is the second game in the \"Streets of Rage\" series, a sequel to \"Streets of Rage\" and followed by \"Streets of Rage 3\" and \"Streets of Rage 4\".\n\nAxel Stone and Blaze Fielding return while the game introduces two new characters: Max Thunder and Eddie \"Skate\" Hunter, the younger brother of Adam Hunter from the original game. A commercial and critical success, it is commonly regarded as the best entry in the series.\n\nLike the previous game, \"Streets of Rage 2\" is a side-scrolling beat-em-up in which one or two players fight against waves of enemies while picking up weapons and items along the way. Along with returning characters Axel Stone and Blaze Fielding, the game introduces two new characters; Max Thunder, a slow-moving but powerful wrestler, and Eddie \"Skate\" Hunter, the brother of previous game's Adam Hunter who can move around quickly with his rollerblades. In addition to standard attacks, which have been expanded from the previous game, each character can perform a unique Blitz Attack by double tapping a direction before attacking. Replacing the police car attack from the previous game, each character can perform Special Attacks which can deal extra damage or attack enemies from all directions at the cost of the player's health. Along with the main campaign, two players can also fight against each other in the game's Duel mode.\n\nOne year has passed since the events of \"Streets of Rage\". To celebrate the defeat of the mysterious Mr. X and his criminal organization, The Syndicate, the trio of Adam Hunter, Axel Stone and Blaze Fielding had met at their favorite nightspot in the city, reminiscing about both their vigilante crusade and triumphant victory from within the previous year. Axel and Blaze had moved out of the city after the adventure, with Axel working as a part-time bodyguard and Blaze teaching dance classes. Adam has since rejoined the police force and lives in a small house with his younger brother, Eddie \"Skate\" Hunter.\n\nThe next afternoon, Blaze had received an unexpected yet emergency phone call from Skate, who had informed her that upon arriving at home from school, Skate was shocked to find his house in ruin and his older brother missing. Attached to the front door was a picture of Adam chained to a wall at the feet of Mr. X. The criminals began to retake the streets once more, as beatings and looting took place regularly and in broad daylight; chaos reigned in the city, far worse than before. Realizing that Mr. X and The Syndicate have returned for revenge against them and the city, Blaze wastes no time in informing Axel about the unexpected situation, with Axel himself personally vowing to help Blaze out in defeating Mr. X and rescuing Adam. From within the preparation of their upcoming second battle against Mr. X and The Syndicate, Blaze and Axel are soon joined by Skate, who wishes to help out in rescuing and saving his older brother Adam and Axel's friend, a professional wrestler named Max Thunder who also seeks to help aid Axel and Blaze out as well in rescuing and saving their kidnapped friend.\n\nThe quartet soon embarks on a rescue mission, which will take them from the city all the way to Mr. X's hideout on a desolate island, where they will eventually face Mr. X and his bodyguard Shiva. Unlike the other two games in the series, \"Streets of Rage 2\" has only one ending, where Mr. X is defeated and Adam is rescued, after which the heroes leave in a helicopter.\n\n\"Streets of Rage 2\" was coded by the same programming team that did the original game. To make it possible to add more features and additional memory cache, the programmers improved the Mega Drive cartridge specifications.\n\nThe soundtrack for \"Streets of Rage 2\" was composed by Yuzo Koshiro, along with three contributions from Motohiro Kawashima. It was composed using then outdated NEC PC-8801 hardware alongside Koshiro's own audio programming language. According to Koshiro: \"For \"Bare Knuckle\" I used the PC88 and an original programming language I developed myself. The original was called MML, Music Macro Language. It's based on NEC's BASIC program, but I modified it heavily. It was more a BASIC-style language at first, but I modified it to be something more like Assembly. I called it Music Love'. I used it for all the \"Bare Knuckle\" Games.\"\n\nThe soundtrack was influenced by electronic dance music, specifically house, techno, hardcore techno, and breakbeat. The soundtrack for \"Streets of Rage 2\" is considered \"revolutionary\" and ahead of its time, for its \"blend of swaggering house synths,\" \"dirty\" electro-funk and \"trancey electronic textures that would feel as comfortable in a nightclub as a video game.\"\n\nIn Japan and Europe, \"Streets of Rage 2\"s title uses Roman numerals (\"Bare Knuckle II\" in Japan and \"Streets of Rage II\" in Europe) instead of the Arabic numerals used in North America (\"Streets of Rage 2\"). In the North American version, Blaze's flying kick sprite was slightly edited to be less risqué. The Japanese version also shows Mr. X smoking a cigar, which was edited out of the EU and U.S. versions. The Japanese version gives Skate's first name as Sammy, but in the European and North American versions, his name is Eddie. The European version gives Max's second name as Hatchett; the North American and Japanese versions give it as Thunder.\n\nThe Master System and Game Gear 8-bit versions of \"Streets of Rage 2\" are quite different from the Mega Drive original, and to each other, similar to the Master System/Game Gear version of \"Sonic the Hedgehog\". In addition to having different levels and the inferior graphics, Max Thunder is omitted from both. The Game Gear version does not show enemy names.\n\nAn arcade version of \"Streets of Rage 2\" was released onto Sega's Mega Drive based Mega-Play hardware. It uses a regular credit system. In this version, all 1-ups have been replaced by money bags, there is no in-game timer and the difficulty levels are one step above the Mega Drive version. Scoring is kept by number of KOs, instead of damage inflicted.\n\n\"Streets of Rage 2\" was collected in the \"Sega Smash Pack\" for Sega's final home console the Dreamcast. There is also a port of the game as well as the first and third games on the Japanese version of \"Sonic Gems Collection\" for the PlayStation 2 and GameCube. The ports on \"Sonic Gems Collection\" are Genesis perfect and are the Japanese versions of the games (they are also available on GameTap). The game appears in \"Sonic's Ultimate Genesis Collection\" for Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3.\n\nThe game was released for Japan's Virtual Console on May 15, 2007, and then released on North America's on May 21, 2007 and on Europe's on June 1, 2007. The original game was released for the iPhone and iPod touch in April 2011. \"Streets of Rage 2\" is also available on the PlayStation Network. It was published on Valve's Steam platform on 26 January 2011, both as stand-alone purchase and part of the \"SEGA Genesis / Mega Drive Classics Pack 4\". On August 29, 2007, \"Streets of Rage 2\" was released on Xbox Live Arcade for the Microsoft Xbox 360 console, featuring filtered graphics and online co-operative play. It was later removed from the service in June 2012 and replaced with the \"Streets of Rage Collection\", which includes all three games of the series.\n\n3D Streets of Rage 2 was developed by M2 as part of the 3D Classics series for the Nintendo 3DS. It was released on April 29, 2015 in Japan and July 23, 2015 in North America, Europe and Australia. In addition to being redesigned with the stereoscopic 3D effects of the 3DS, it features two new gameplay modes in Rage Relay and Casual Mode. Rage Relay allows the player to play through the game using all four characters in any chosen order, and will switch to the next in line each time they die. Casual Mode allows players to instantly defeat enemies, including bosses, by knocking them to the ground or using combos.\n\nUpon release, \"Streets of Rage 2\" received wide critical acclaim, with scores above 90% from most video game magazines at the time. In the United States, \"GamePro\" gave it a perfect score of 5 out of 5, stating that \"against the \"Final Fights\" and \"Super Double Dragons\" of the world, \"Streets of Rage 2\" more than fends for itself\" and concluded it to be the \"side-scrolling street fighter to beat.\" \"GameFan\"s four reviewers gave it scores of 97%, 95%, 97% and 97%. They described it as \"the best fighting game\" and \"best side scroll fighter\" they \"ever played,\" praising the gameplay, graphics, sound effects, and Yuzo Koshiro music, concluding it to be \"the best fighting sequel of '92.\" \"Mega Play\" reviewers gave it scores of 84% and 80%, with the former describing it as \"definitely one of the best games in this genre for the Genesis\" while the latter criticized the special moves for giving \"too much strength\" and making \"the game too easy\" but concluded it to be \"a solid two player game\". In Japan, \"Famitsu\" gave it a score of 26 out of 40.\n\n\"Sega Force\" reviewers gave it scores of 95%, 93%, and 92%, with one reviewer describing it as the \"first 16 Meg\" (2 MB) \"cartridge to grace the MD,\" possibly \"the best MD game to date and \"definitely\" the best beat 'em up on \"any\" console,\" and \"the best thing to happen to MD owners since the rise of a certain blue hedgehog,\" while another described it as \"an awesome game\" and another stated that it \"deserves a place in any gamer's collection\"; they gave it an overall score of 93%, concluding that it \"Wipes the floor with \"Street Fighter II\".\" \"Mean Machines\" gave it a 92% score, describing it as \"the ultimate cartridge beat 'em' up on the Megadrive,\" praising the graphics as \"superb, with huge sprites and great animation\" and \"loads of enemies attacking at once,\" the sound and presentation as \"of an equally high standard,\" and the gameplay as \"superb, especially in two-player team mode.\" \"Mean Machines Sega\" gave it a 90% score, with one reviewer describing it as \"a truly arcade quality beat 'em up\" that \"beats the spots off any Neo Geo beat 'em up\" and as \"simply the best beat 'em up you can get for a console\" while another reviewer recommended that, \"if you don't like beat 'em ups, buy it anyway, because this game will convert you\"; they conclude it to be \"the greatest sequel we've seen for ages\" and as \"certainly the best scrolling beat 'em up ever to hit a home console!\"\n\nThe soundtrack also received a positive reception for its techno-based chiptune tracks which impressed many gamers and critics at the time, especially due to the audio limitations of the Mega Drive/Genesis console. In 1993, \"Electronic Games\" listed the first two \"Streets of Rage\" games as having some of the best video game music soundtracks they \"ever heard\" and described Yuzo Koshiro as \"just about universally acknowledged as the most gifted composer currently working in the video game field.\" Notably, the boss theme is considered one of the best boss themes in the 16-bit era and of all time. The reception for the soundtrack was so high that the game's music composer, Yuzo Koshiro, was invited to nightclubs to DJ the tracks.\n\n\"Streets of Rage 2\" has been considered by many to be one of the best games ever made. In 2004, readers of \"Retro Gamer\" magazine voted \"Streets of Rage 2\" as the 64th best retro game of all time, and the staff later included in their top ten lists of Mega Drive, Game Gear, and Nomad games. It has also been listed as one of the best games ever made by publications such as \"Stuff\", and as one of the greatest retro games by sites such as NowGamer and BuzzFeed.\n\nThe Xbox Live Arcade digital version of \"Streets of Rage 2\" sold 184,555 units on the Xbox 360 console, . The free-to-play Android version \"Streets of Rage 2 Classic\" has received more than mobile game downloads, .\n"}
{"id": "2010602", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010602", "title": "Stay-away", "text": "Stay-away\n\nA stay away, also known as a \"stay-away\" or \"stayaway\", is a form of protest where people are told to \"stay away\" from work, similar to a general strike.\n\nStay Away is a form of non-violent protest action occurring in Zimbabwe in response to the Robert Mugabe's government.\n\nAccording to SW Radio Africa, this form of protest has the support of all major civic bodies in the country. It calls for a solid one- or two-day \"stay away\" from work to protest in a manner that will not expose people to the violence and intimidation of the police and the army. Stay-away campaigns are often communicated through e-mail and text messaging.\n\"Just stay at home - do your buying on Wednesday and then take a 4-day break. Do not go out if you can avoid it as there may be trouble and the safest place for you is at home.\"\nStay aways were also used by organizers of the South African insurrection of 1984-1986, with over 40 stay aways used in 1985 and 1986 alone. Between August 1984 and December 1986, four times more political work stoppages were staged than in the entire preceding three and a half decades. In addition to school boycotts, general strikes and guerrilla action taken by the ANC, they made South Africa ungovernable and forced the Apartheid government to gradually reform until it was finally abolished in 1994.\n\n"}
{"id": "2010605", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010605", "title": "R-46 (missile)", "text": "R-46 (missile)\n\nThe R-46 was an intercontinental ballistic missile (ICBM) design by the Soviet Union during the Cold War.\n\nThe R-46 concept was to launch a very large hydrogen bomb into orbit as a fractional orbital bombardment system (FOBS). The existence of the system was alluded to in a speech by then Soviet Premier Nikita Khrushchev in 1961. The design was not developed, however, and the FOBS concept was abandoned as part of SALT II.\n\n"}
{"id": "2010608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010608", "title": "Pogoń Lwów (1904)", "text": "Pogoń Lwów (1904)\n\nLKS Pogoń Lwów is a former Polish professional sports club which was located in Lwów (now Lviv in Ukraine), and existed from 1904 until the outbreak of World War II in 1939. It was the second oldest Polish football club behind other teams from Lwów – Czarni and Lechia. With numerous departments, among them football, ice hockey and track and field, Pogoń was a major force of Polish sports in the interbellum period; its football team was never relegated from the elite Polish Football League. The club ceased to exist in September 1939, following German and Soviet aggression on Poland. On July 2, 1939, Pogoń played last pre-war official home game, drawing 1–1 with AKS Chorzów. The last pre-war game of the Pogoń's football team took place in Warsaw on August 20, 1939. Lwów's side lost 1–2 to Polonia Warszawa, scorer of the last goal was the 20-year-old forward Piotr Dreher. A club under the same name wishing to continue its traditions was formed in 2009.\n\n\n\nThe history of the club dates back to the spring of 1904, when a \"Sports-Gymnastics Club\" at Lwów's (the city, known then as \"Lemberg\", belonged at the beginning of the 20th century to Austria-Hungary) Fourth High School was founded by a group of students, inspired by their gymnastics teacher, doctor Eugeniusz Piasecki. The organisation was based on several minor students teams, which had existed in the city since 1900, and which had played several football games with opponents from other high schools. The team of Fourth High School went together with players of Czarni Lwów in May 1906 to Kraków, where they tied with local students 1:1. The visit of Lwów's students is regarded as the event which spurred their Kraków's collegaues into founding their own teams, thus Cracovia and Wisła Kraków were created soon afterwards. In late September 1906, Kraków's team came to Lwów, beating the locals 1:0.\n\nIn 1907 the name was changed to Pogoń (\"Pogoń\" is Polish name of Pahonia; the new name was proposed by Maksymilian Dudryk of Lechita Lwów). The new team was a merger of the two sides – Sports-Gymnastics Club of the Fourth Gymnasium, and Lechita Lwów. Hues reflected the merger, as Sports-Gymnastics Club players wore red – blue jerseys, and Lechita's footballers white – red. Players of the new team wore white – red jerseys and blue shorts. The change accelerated the club's growth, as soon afterwards it found a rich sponsor, Ludwik Kuchar, who was the owner of several cinemas located in Lwów and Kraków. Next the statutes of Pogoń were established, based on statutes of English sports organizations. Pogoń was a co-founder of the PZPN (Polish Football Association) (1919), as well as a founding member of the Polish Football League, which started in the spring of 1927. Pogoń's first manager was doctor Eugeniusz Piasecki, who remained on this post until 1909.\n\nDuring the first years of existence, Pogoń played games against other local teams, and in 1907 its lineup consisted of the following footballers: Rysiak, Marion, Kawecki, Harasymowicz, Spanring, Rzadki, Pirozynski, Kleban, Dudryk, Karasinski, Zausner. In April and May 1908, Pogoń went to Kraków, tying with Cracovia 1:1, and losing to Wisła 0:2. The first international game took place in May 1909, when Pogoń went to Košice, losing 0:5 to the champion of northern Hungary, Kassai AC. In September 1909, the Hungarians visited Lwów, winning 4:1. In 1910, Pogoń joined the Austrian Football Association, which enabled the club to make contacts with several teams of the Austrio-Hungarian Empire. In 1911, Pogoń sensationally beat 6:1 the team of Vienna. Other scores of that year were: 1:3 and 1:4 with Victoria Vienna, 3:0 and 4:2 with the Hungarian side Ungvari, 4:2 with the German team Diana Kattowitz, 2:3 and 2:3 with Budapesti FAC, 4:6 with Kassai AC, 0:4 and 1:4 with ASV Hertha Vienna, 1:5 and 1:1 with 1. Simmeringer SC.\n\nIn 1912, Pogoń went for the first time to Warsaw, where it beat 6:2 the team of the city. In the same year, Pogoń played against Budapesti FAC (2:2 and 1:0), Debreceni VSC (8:3 and 4:1), Ungvari AC (5:0), and Magyar AC (1:3 and 0:1). Among the team's players were: Steifer and Reiner (goalkeepers), Karasinski, Rzadki and Solecki (defenders), Tadeusz Kuchar, Piotrowski, Kleban, Misinski, Moeller (midfielders), Kawecki, Karol Kuchar, Bodek, Romanowski, Marion, Bedlewicz and Wladyslaw Kuchar (forwards). On May 1, 1913, a new stadium was opened with a Pogoń – Cracovia game. This match was the debut of Waclaw Kuchar. Also, in 1913, the Austrian Football Federation added Pogoń to the first class teams.\n\nThe outbreak of World War I terminated the 1914 Championships of Galicia. In the spring of 1914, Pogoń hosted two Hungarian teams – Toerekves (1:4 and 0:2), as well as Budapesti TC (0:2, 0:5). In 1915 there were no matches, and the club returned in 1916, when the city was occupied by the troops of the Russian Empire. Due to the initiative of professor Rudolf Wacek, two teams were created – the “civilians”, and the “military”. In the fall of that year, after the Russians had withdrawn from Lwów, Pogoń played at home against Cracovia (October 1, 0:2), and then went to Kraków, to lose 0:7.\n\nIn 1917, while the conflict was still on, Pogoń played several matches versus teams of the Austrian Army units, stationed in the city. Also, it faced Rewera Stanisławów and Vasas Budapest. The Hungarians beat the “civilians” 6:0, and the “military” 4:1. In early August 1917, the team of Vienna came to Lwów, winning one game 5:2 and losing another 1:2.\n\nImmediately after World War I, a military conflict between the Poles and the Ukrainians began (see Polish-Ukrainian War), and athletes of Pogoń were unable to play any matches until well into 1919. When the hostilities had stopped, Lwów's side went on several away games across newly restored Poland, visiting Poznań, Warsaw, Łódź and Kraków. In the immediate postwar period, Pogoń's lineup consisted of Mieczyslaw Kuchar (goalkeeper), Piotrowski and Wojcicki (defenders), Fluhr, Owsionka, Kusionowicz (midfielders), Juras, Dobrzynski, Wacek Kuchar, Garbien, Batsch, Slonecki (forwards).\n\nIn June 1920, at the height of Polish-Soviet War, Pogoń went to Upper Silesia, to face German sides of that area. The tournament was a propaganda exercise, with its main purpose to show Polish-speaking Upper Silesians the strength of Polish sports. Two games were of special importance – one versus Diana Kattowitz (5:0), and another versus Beuthen 09 (3:2). After Pogoń's visit, Poles in Upper Silesia began founding their own teams.\n\nIn 1921, in the first completed games for the Championships of Poland (the 1920 games were not finished because of the war), Pogoń represented Lwów's district of the Polish Football Association. However, in the final tournament, Lwów's team was placed in the last (fourth) position, after the champions (Cracovia Kraków), Polonia Warszawa, and Warta Poznań.\n\n1922 was the beginning of the golden era of Pogoń's football team. It was then that Lwów's side won the first Polish championship, owing not only to a score of talented players, but also to Austrian coach named K. Fischer, who preferred an offensive, modern style of play. In the first stage, which was regional competition, Pogoń beat all opponents without losing a point. Next, in the finals of Southern Poland, Lwów's favourites twice beat Ruch Chorzow (12:0, 6:0), and WKS Lublin (11:0 and 4:0). The toughest nut to crack was the 1921 champion, Cracovia Kraków. At home, Pogoń won 3:2, but in Kraków, lost 1:4. Nevertheless, the Leopolitans were first, due to better overall goal difference. In the final stage, Pogoń faced the champions of Northern Poland, Warta Poznań. In Poznań, the game ended in a 1:1 draw, and in Lwów the home team won 4:3, thus becoming the 1922 Champions.\n\nIn 1923, Pogoń again became the champions of Lwów's district of the Polish Football Association, winning 9 games and drawing 1 (with the record victory 21:1 versus Rewera Stanislawow). Then, in the Eastern Poland group of the Championship it won all games, routing Lauda Wilno 13:0, and WKS Lublin 8:0 and 7:0. The final games against the champions of Western Poland Wisla Kraków, ended in a tie; in Lwów Pogoń won 3:0, and in Kraków, Wisla was better, winning 2:1. Therefore, a third match was necessary, in Warsaw. Pogoń won in extra time 2:1. In the summer of that year, Pogoń went to Yugoslavia, but without major successes. The Leopolitans lost to Concordia Zagreb 2:3, and HASK Zagreb 0:1. In Belgrade, Pogoń won one game and lost another 0:4, to SK Jugoslavija. Furthermore, a number of foreign teams visited Lwów – VfB Admira Wacker Mödling (4:6 and 3:3), Eintracht Leipzig (7:1), Kispest AC (1:1 and 2:2), WAF Vienna (3:1 and 2:1), and Hakoah Vienna (2:1).\n\nIn 1924, due to the Olympic Games in Paris, the championships of Poland were not played. Therefore, Pogoń had a lot of time for numeral friendly games, both with Polish and foreign opponents. Altogether, the club played 55 matches, including 24 with teams from other countries. Among others, it beat the 1922 champion of Denmark, Kjøbenhavns Boldklub (3:1), twice beat HAŠK Zagreb (4:2 and 2:1), and twice lost to the champion of Austria, SV Amateure (0:1, 0:2).\n\nPogoń was at the height of its form in the 1925 football season. For nine months of that year, the Leopolitans did not lose a single game to a Polish opponent, finally conceding an away game vs. Polonia Warszawa on September 13. The club purchased a very talented goalkeeper from Katowice, Emil Goerlitz, who also represented the national team of the country. Apart from winning the Polish championships, Pogoń played against teams as Hakoah Vienna (2:1, 0:2), WAC Vienna (4:0 and 1:3), SV Amateure (3:1, 2:2), Simmering (0:2, 2:4), and Sparta Prague. The lineup consisted of Gorlitz (goalkeeper), Olearczyk and Giebartowski (defenders), Hanke, Fichtel, Gulicz (midfielders), Slonecki, Batsch, W. Kuchar, Grabien and Szabakiewicz (forwards).\n\nAfter the successes of 1925, Pogoń found itself in severe financial trouble, and the following year, the club was unable to contract any games with foreign opponents. Thus, the team could not afford to play any games with foreign opponents and limited itself to facing Polish sides. For the fourth time in a row, Pogoń turned out to be the best Polish team, beating on the way to championship Cracovia Kraków, WKS/Lublinianka Lublin, Warta Poznań (2:2, 7:1), and Polonia Warszawa (2:2, 2:0). The 1926 success was the last championship for the club, and the winners fielded such players, as Lachowicz (goalkeeper), Olearczyk, Giebartowski (defenders), Deutschman, Fichtel, Hanke (midfielders), Urlich, Batsch, W. Kuchar, Grabien, Szabakiewicz (forwards). Top stars were three forwards – Kuchar, Batsch and Grabien, who altogether in 4 years scored 284 goals – Kuchar 125, Batsch 96, and Grabien 63.\n\nIn 1927 the championship of Poland was reorganized with creation of the Football League. Pogoń, as its founder and champion of the country, was automatically added to the League. In the first year, Lwów's side finished games on the 4th position. It must be mentioned that Pogoń was stripped of 6 points, because it played a friendly game with Cracovia – the team that was banned by the League. As the League was very time-consuming, Pogoń played only one international friendly, beating the Romanian side Fulgerul Bucharest 4:2 at home . In goal, a young, talented keeper Spirydion Albanski appeared. The 1928 season was average, with Pogoń finishing on the 6th spot. In the two international friendlies, the Leopolians lost to Čechie Karlín 1:3, and to Vasas Budapest 0:2. The 1929 season was even worse – Lwów's side was placed on the 9th position.\n\nIn 1930, the team of Pogoń was far from its glorious past, completing the season on the distant, 7th position. The lineup consisted of a generation of young players (Albanski, Jezewski, Deutschman, Nahaczewski, Maurer, Michal Matyas, Adolf Zimmer), who were supported by veterans – Waclaw Kuchar, Hanke, or Szabakiewicz. In international friendlies, Pogoń beat 3:0 Jahn Czernowitz, ethnic German side from Cernauti, and lost to III Kerulet FC 3:5, 1:2, as well as Atilla Miskolc 1:3.\nThe 1931 season marked resurgence of form. After purchasing Karol Kossok from Cracovia and Edmund Majowski from AKS Chorzow, Pogoń finished on the 4th spot, only two points behind the champion, Garbarnia Kraków. In this year's lone international game, the Leopolians beat Hakkoah Vienna 1:0. Next year was even better, with Pogoń finishing on the second position, one point behind the champion, Cracovia. The lineup consisted of the following players: Albanski, Jezewski, Kucharski, Hanin, W. Kuchar, Deutschman, Niechciol, Nachaczewski, Schlaff, Matyas II, Zimmer, Matyas I. In 1932, veteran forward Waclaw Kuchar celebrated the 20th anniversary of active playing. Pogoń played twice versus Hungarians of Attila Miskolc, losing 2:4, and winning 1:0.\n\nIn the 1933 season, Pogoń was once again very close to winning the championship, ending in the second position. In that year, Waclaw Kuchar finished career, and was replaced by a very talented midfielder Jan Wasiewicz. In international games, Pogoń beat 3:0 Standard Liege, twice played the Czech team Sparta Kosire (1:5, 5:2), beat Hakoah Vienna 2:0, and tied with Hakoah Cernauti 2:2.\n\nIn 1934 Pogoń saw a decline in form, finishing on the sixth position. One of the reasons for the drop in performance was a severe injury of its top scorer, Michal Matyas. In spring of that year, however, the Leopolians went on a tournee to Belgium and France. They lost to Olympique Lille 0:1, beat the top Belgian team R. Daring Club Molenbeek 2:1 and lost to R.F.C. de Liege 0:1. In the fall of 1934, Pogoń hosted in Lwów the renowned team of AC Milan, beating the Italians 5:3. At the end of the season, the Leopolians twice lost to Brocskay Debrecen 0:2 and 1:2.\n\n1935 was a better year, as Pogoń for the third time finished the Ekstraklasa games on the second position. Michal Matyas returned after the injury, and proved his quality, scoring 22 goals (out of total 55 Pogoń's league scores), which made him the top scorer of the country. In international friendlies, the Leopolians twice played against FC Seged (1:1, 0:1), lost 2:7 to Wiener AC and 0:2 to Admira Wacker Vienna and finally lost and drew against Hakoah Vienna (0:1 and 2:2). In the late fall of 1935, the second-best team of Poland went to Vienna, but the trip was a disaster. Pogoń was twice routed, losing 3:13 to Admira and 2:9 to Rapid.\n\nIn 1936, a generation of young, talented players appeared in Lwów, with Adam Wolanin and Stanislaw Szmyd. The team finished Ekstraklasa games on the 6th position, and in summer of that year, Pogoń hosted the champion of Bulgaria, Levski Sofia, winning 1:0. A number of games against Austrian teams again ended in a disaster – Pogoń lost 5 matches and won only one.\n\nThe 1937 season was one of the worst in Pogoń's history. After the spring round (back then, Polish league played in a spring – autumn system), the Leopolians were on the last position, with only 4 points. During the summer break, Pogoń went on a training camp to Troki, and after the camp, the team returned to form, winning several games, which elevated it to the 6th position. Among the victories, the most notable was beating of AKS Chorzow 1:0 in Chorzow. This result allowed Cracovia to become champion of Poland. In 1937, Pogoń played several international friendlies, including two games with exotic side Hapoel Tel Aviv (both won 4:2 and 7:2).\n\nIn 1938, the last completed pre-war season of the Ekstraklasa, Pogoń ended in the 5th position. That year the club played only three international games – against Budafok 1:1 and twice against Kispesti 0:2, 0:1. Altogether, during 35 years of existence, the Leopolians played 955 games, out of which 557 were victories, 263 loses and 135 draws.\n\nAfter the war, when it became clear that Lwów would no longer belong to Poland, its Polish citizens were forced to leave the city. Most of them settled in Lower Silesia and along the line of the Odra river. Pogoń's former officials as well as its players, who wanted to continue their sports activities, helped with founding of several sports clubs. Among clubs that can be regarded as Pogoń's continuation, there are: Polonia Bytom, Odra Opole, Piast Gliwice and Pogoń Szczecin. All these teams have the same hues as Pogon, and similar logos. Odra Opole was originally called \"Lwowianka\", but the name was disliked by Communist authorities and had to be changed some time in late 1940s.\n\nIn April 2009, the club was re-founded under the same name and crest.\n\n\n\"1920–1926 non-league championships – the winners of regional leagues played against each other in the finals\"\n\n\n\"1927–1939 Polish Soccer League\"\n\n\nNote: There was really no cup competition in early seasons. The initially started in 1926 the competition was discontinued for about 40(!) years. In 1936 through 1939 there was the Polish President Cup, where the best players from each regions competed. However, it really was not until 1938 right before the war when the Ekstraklasa players participated in that Cup. The united Lwów team of 1938 consisting mostly out of Pogoń Lwów players managed to overcome the united Kraków team (consisting of Wisla Kraków) in the finals and winning the competition.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2010615", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010615", "title": "Amaury de Montfort (priest)", "text": "Amaury de Montfort (priest)\n\nAmaury de Montfort (1242 or 1243 – 1301) was the third son of parliamentary pioneer Simon de Montfort, 6th Earl of Leicester, and Eleanor of England, daughter of King John.\n\nAmaury entered the priesthood as a young man, and held the positions of Treasurer of York Cathedral, canon of Rouen, Évreux, London and Lincoln. He served as a papal chaplain as well.\n\nAfter the deaths of his father and older brother Henry de Montfort at the Battle of Evesham in 1265 (by men under the command of then Prince Edward, later Edward I, aka Edward Longshanks), Amaury fled to France with his mother, younger sister, and surviving brothers.\n\nAmaury de Montfort soon began studying medicine and theology at the University of Padua. His older brothers, Guy de Montfort, Count of Nola and Simon de Montfort the Younger were seeking their fortunes in Italy. A tragic turn of events lead to the bloody 1271 confrontation between Guy and Simon and their cousin Henry of Almain (also Edward's cousin, by virtue of his father, Henry III being the elder brother of both Eleanor of England and Henry of Almain's father, Richard, Earl of Cornwall).\n\nHenry, whom the de Montfort sons considered a traitor to their father's ideals, was attacked during mass at Viterbo, and murdered on the altar steps, resulting in the excommunication of both de Montfort sons. While Amaury was not in Viterbo, and was not involved in the murder, Edward swore vengeance upon all of Simon de Montfort's sons, Amaury included. Simon the younger died that year, reportedly of a tertian fever, while Guy managed to appeal to the pope (with the aid of his father-in-law), resulting in his return to the church.\n\nIn 1275, after the death of his mother at Montargis Abbey, Amaury, by then a Papal Chaplain, accompanied his younger sister Eleanor de Montfort on a winter sea voyage to Wales and her new husband, Llywelyn ap Gruffudd (the grandson of Llywelyn Fawr). Intercepted at sea by mercenaries in the employ of now King Edward I, both Amaury and Eleanor were taken captive.\n\nFollowing two paragraphs taken mainly from \"Chronica, ascribed to William Rishanger, a monk of St. Albans\", ed. Henry Thomas Riley [1865], 87, 99.\n\nWhile Eleanor's captivity was gentle and relatively short-lived (she was married to Prince Llywelyn at King Edward's expense in 1278), Amaury was held 'without rigour' in Corfe Castle and later in Sherborne Castle. After requests from the Pope, Prince Llywelyn and Archbishop John Peckham of Canterbury, Amaury was released after swearing at London not to return to England unless invited by the king.\n\nUpon his release in mid April 1282, Amaury returned to France, never again to see his sister, who died in childbirth that very year, mere months before the death of her husband Llewylyn and the annexation of North Wales to the English crown. Amaury after some years renounced his clerical career and became a knight, apparently dying soon afterwards in Italy, possibly after 1301\n"}
{"id": "2010626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010626", "title": "New Hampshire Route 112", "text": "New Hampshire Route 112\n\nNew Hampshire Route 112 (abbreviated NH 112) is a east–west state highway in northern New Hampshire. The highway winds across the state, connecting Bath to Conway through the heart of the scenic and mountainous White Mountain National Forest.\n\nThe eastern portion of NH 112 is known as the Kancamagus Highway, running through the White Mountains from Lincoln to Conway. of the highway have been designated a National Scenic Byway by the United States Department of Transportation under the name \"Kancamagus Scenic Byway\". The highway is known for its views of autumn foliage and is a popular drive in September and October for leaf peeping tourism.\n\nThe Kancamagus Highway stays open all winter, although it occasionally closes for short periods while crews clear heavy snows. Its only major intersection, Bear Notch Road, which connects with the town of Bartlett, is closed all winter.\n\nMuch of the western portion of NH 112 is also in the White Mountain National Forest, passing through Kinsman Notch with the Lost River tourist attraction. The section between NH 116 and North Woodstock is called Lost River Road.\n\nNH 112 begins in the town of Bath at US 302 and NH 10 approximately east of the Vermont border. The highway runs southeast along the Wild Ammonoosuc River, then climbs through Kinsman Notch. NH 112 crosses into the town limits of Woodstock and descends along the Lost River, meeting the northern terminus of NH 118 before continuing east to the village of North Woodstock. The route passes through the center of the village, crossing US 3 and interchanging with I-93 before entering Lincoln. NH 112 passes through downtown Lincoln as Main Street.\n\nThe Kancamagus Highway portion of NH 112 begins just east of the town center. The state highway reenters the White Mountain National Forest, following the East Branch of the Pemigewasset River for approximately , then the Hancock Branch for another , steadily ascending as it progresses eastward. Following a series of hairpin turns, NH 112 crosses the height of land at Kancamagus Pass and begins to descend along the Swift River in the Saco River watershed, which it does for its remaining . Eventually the highway leaves the National Forest and enters the town of Conway, where it terminates at Main Street (NH 16 / NH 113) west of downtown.\n\nThe Kancamagus Highway is a very popular tourist destination due to its many scenic views and locations. Two scenic outlook sites are located along the Kancamagus Highway, including one from near the crest of Kancamagus Pass. There are six National Forest campground sites, along with numerous hiking trails.\n\nThe Kancamagus Highway opened in August 1959, after two dead-end stretches of road were linked, creating a connection between US 3 in Lincoln and NH 16 in Conway. Locally known as \"The Kanc\", the road was paved in 1964, and in the winter of 1966–67 it was plowed for the first time.\n\nThe highway is named after Kancamagus (pronounced \"cain-kah-MAW-gus\", \"Fearless One\"), third and final sagamore of the Penacook Confederacy of Native American tribes. Nephew of Wonalancet and grandson of Passaconaway, Kancamagus ruled what is now southern New Hampshire. After English settlers arrested a number of Pennacook tribe members, he was forced to make the decision in 1691 to move north into upper New Hampshire and what is now Quebec, Canada.\n\nFollowing Hurricane Irene in August 2011, two sections of NH 112 were closed, pending repair work and evaluation of damage. The Kancamagus Highway was closed from the Sabbaday Falls picnic area across Kancamagus Pass to the Discovery Trail parking area in the eastern part of Lincoln. A section of the western portion of NH 112 along the Wild Ammonoosuc River was closed; as of September 6, 2011, a single lane of the western section had been reopened. As of late June 2012, the highway had been completely reopened, though some stretches were in the process of being repaved.\n\n"}
{"id": "2010629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010629", "title": "Joel Steinberg", "text": "Joel Steinberg\n\nJoel Steinberg (born May 25, 1941) is a disbarred New York City criminal defense attorney who attracted international media attention when he was accused of rape and murder and was convicted of manslaughter, in the November 1, 1987 beating and subsequent death of a six-year-old girl, Elizabeth (\"Lisa\"), whom he and his live-in partner Hedda Nussbaum had illegally adopted. Steinberg had reportedly been hired by a single mother named Michele Launders to locate a suitable adoptive family for Lisa, but he instead took the child home and raised her with Nussbaum. He never filed formal adoption papers and the child was not legally adopted.\n\nJoel Steinberg was raised in the Bronx and Yonkers, New York. After graduating from Fordham University in 1962, he attended law school but dropped out in 1964 and joined the U.S. Air Force in the following year. Following his military career, he returned to law school and was admitted to the bar in New York. Due to the Vietnam War ongoing at the time, lawyers whose studies were interrupted by conscription were exempted from the bar exam requirement.\n\nSteinberg shared a Greenwich Village, Manhattan apartment with Lisa, Mitchell (a younger child also illegally adopted), and his live-in partner Hedda Nussbaum. He was under the influence of crack cocaine when he hit Lisa on the head on November 1, 1987. After the attack, he left the apartment to party with friends; Nussbaum eventually dialed 9-1-1. After police arrived at the scene, Lisa was transported from the apartment to Saint Vincent's Hospital. The child remained in the hospital for three days and died after being removed from life support. In addition to Lisa's deadly assault, Mitchell and Nussbaum both showed signs of physical abuse at the hands of Steinberg, and Nussbaum's battered, unkempt appearance did much to fuel the media frenzy that accompanied the story of Lisa's death.\n\nIn exchange for testifying against Steinberg, Nussbaum was not prosecuted for events related to Lisa's death. Nussbaum was alone in the apartment with an unconscious and bleeding Lisa for over ten hours without seeking any medical attention for the girl. At Steinberg's twelve-week trial, his defense argued that Nussbaum's extensive injuries resulted from a consensual sadomasochistic relationship between the two defendants. Her attorneys claimed that Nussbaum's decision to stay with Steinberg even though she was a victim of domestic violence was a sign of battered woman syndrome.\n\nIn New York State at that time, first-degree murder applied only to those who killed police officers or had committed murder while already serving a sentence for a previous murder. The jury was unable to convict Steinberg on the more serious charge of second-degree murder, but it did convict him of the lesser charge of first-degree manslaughter. Judge Harold Rothwax then sentenced him to the maximum penalty then available for that charge — 8 to 25 years in state prison.\nOn two occasions, Steinberg was denied discretionary parole, mainly because he never expressed remorse for the killing. However, on June 30, 2004, he was paroled under the state's \"good time\" law, which mandates release of inmates who exhibit good behavior while incarcerated after having served two-thirds or more of the maximum possible sentence. New York State has since increased this ratio to six-sevenths of the maximum term for persons convicted of violent felonies. Steinberg had spent most of his imprisonment at New York State's supermax prison, the Southport Correctional Facility, presumably to prevent him from being attacked by other inmates.\n\nAfter his release, Steinberg moved to Harlem, where he took up work in the construction industry. As of 2006, he maintained his innocence. Mitchell was reunited with his biological mother, Nicole Bridget Smigiel.\n\nOn January 16, 2007, the New York Supreme Court, Appellate Division (New York's intermediate appellate court) upheld a $15 million award against Steinberg to Michele Launders, Lisa's birth mother. In its opinion, the court rejected the position that Steinberg, acting as his own attorney, put forth:\n\nThe \"Law & Order\" Season 1 episode \"Indifference\" was based on the Lisa Steinberg murder case. The follow-up episode in Season 15 entitled \"Fixed\" was inspired by Joel Steinberg's actual release in 2004.\n"}
{"id": "2010636", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010636", "title": "Africa Service Medal", "text": "Africa Service Medal\n\nThe Africa Service Medal is a South African campaign medal for service during the Second World War, awarded to members of the Union Defence Forces, the South African Police and the South African Railways Police. The medal was originally intended for service in Africa, but it was later extended to cover service anywhere in the world.\n\nIn addition to the British Second World War campaign medals awarded to combatants from all members of the British Commonwealth, several Commonwealth nations established their own service medals, all distinctive in design, purpose and criteria.\n\nFor South Africa, the Africa Service Medal was instituted on 23 December 1943 by King George VI in his capacity as South African head of state, and was awarded in addition to the British campaign stars and medals awarded for the war.\n\nThe Africa Service Medal was awarded to members of the Union Defence Forces, the South African Police and the South African Railways Police.\n\nTo qualify for the medal, a member of those services must have volunteered for war service outside South Africa and must have served, either at home or abroad, between South Africa's declaration of war on 6 September 1939 and 2 September 1945 inclusive, continuously for thirty days or part-time for at least eighteen hours in non continuous training. As the name indicates, the medal was originally intended for service in Africa, up to the defeat of the Axis forces in North Africa in 1943, but it was later extended to cover service anywhere in the world, up to the end of the war in the Pacific on 2 September 1945.\n\nUnion Defence Force land forces served in East Africa in 1940 and 1941, North Africa from 1941 to 1943, Madagascar in 1942, and Italy in 1944 and 1945. The South African Air Force served in all these campaigns, as well as in West Africa from 1943 to 1945, Sicily in 1943 and South-East Europe from 1943 to 1945, and provided air support to the Warsaw uprising in 1944. Naval forces and seconded personnel served in the Mediterranean from 1941 to 1945, Greece in 1941, the Arctic convoys from 1941 to 1945, the Java Sea in 1942, Sicily in 1943, the Indian Ocean from 1943 to 1945, the D-Day invasion in 1944, and the Pacific in 1945.\n\nIn addition to the Africa Service Medal, the South African Medal for War Services was instituted in 1946 to reward voluntary unpaid service in support of the South African war during the Second World War.\n\nThe medal was struck in silver to a design suggested by Field Marshal Jan Smuts. It is 36 millimetres in diameter and 3 millimetres thick at the raised rim, and is affixed to the suspender by means of claws and a pin through the upper edge of the medal. The recipient's name, rank, unit and number were impressed on the edge.\n\nThe obverse depicts a map of Africa, surrounded by the name of the medal in English and Afrikaans, \"AFRICA SERVICE MEDAL\" at left and \"AFRIKADIENS-MEDALJE\" at right.\n\nThe reverse depicts a prancing springbok against a landscape background. There is no inscription.\n\nThe ribbon is 32 millimetres wide and orange-red, the colour of the shoulder flash worn by South African volunteers, edged in 3½ mm wide green and yellow bands. The green and gold are the Springbok Rugby sporting colours, which were adopted as the defence force colours.\n\nSouth African Second World War ex-servicemen referred to the ribbon of this medal as \"Ouma's Garter\". Ouma Smuts (Granny Smuts) was the nickname of the wife of the South African Second World War era prime minister, Field Marshal Jan Smuts. The nickname was a tribute to her unstinting efforts to supply the South African troops with home comforts.\n\nThe King's Commendation (South Africa) (1939–45), denoted by a bronze King Protea flower emblem, was authorised to be worn on the ribbon of the Africa Service Medal and could be awarded for valuable services in connection with the Second World War. The Commendation could be awarded posthumously and was the equivalent of a Mention in Despatches, but for services rendered away from the battlefield. The full-size emblem, worn on the ribbon with the medal, is 19 millimetres high, and the miniature to be worn on the ribbon bar is 9 millimetres high.\n\nCampaign medals and stars are not listed by name in the order of wear prescribed by the British Central Chancery of the Orders of Knighthood, but are grouped together as taking precedence after the Queen's Medal for Chiefs and before the Polar Medals, in order of the date of the campaign awarded.\n\nIn the order of wear of the Second World War campaign medals, the two British campaign medals and the Africa Service Medal take precedence after the nine campaign stars, of which the order of wear was determined firstly by their respective campaign start dates, secondly by the campaign's duration and thirdly by their dates of institution.\n\nThe war service medals established by individual Commonwealth nations to augment the British Second World War campaign medals, all take precedence after the War Medal 1939–1945 in the respective orders of wear of those countries. These medals are, in order of date of institution:\n\nOn 6 April 1952 a new set of South African decorations and medals was instituted to replace the British awards used previously. The older British decorations and medals continued to be worn in the same order but, with the exception of the Victoria Cross, took precedence after all South African orders, decorations and medals. Of the British medals applicable to South Africans, the Africa Service Medal takes precedence as shown below.\n"}
{"id": "2010638", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010638", "title": "Keith Traylor", "text": "Keith Traylor\n\nByron Keith Traylor (born September 3, 1969) is a former American football nose tackle who played 17 seasons in the National Football League. He was originally drafted by the Denver Broncos in the third round of the 1991 NFL Draft. He played college football at Central Oklahoma. Traylor has won a total of three Super Bowl rings; he won two with the Denver Broncos and one with the New England Patriots.\n\nKeith Traylor was born September 3, 1969, into an athletic family. His mother, Vernestine, was a standout high school basketball player before giving birth to him at age seventeen, and his two younger brothers played college football and basketball, respectively. Traylor was a two-time all-state and all-conference linebacker at Malvern High School in Malvern, Arkansas. He also excelled in basketball and baseball, earning all-state and all-conference honors in both sports. Traylor was named Player of the Decade for the 1980s by the Arkansas Democrat-Gazette, and is second in state history for tackles in a season, amassing 231 tackles in 1985. Traylor, who was considered one of the top ten players in the country as a senior, was one of several highly rated high school football players in Arkansas during the mid-1980s, including Little Rock Parkview's Keith Jackson and Pine Bluff High School's Eric Mitchell.\n\nAfter finishing high school as a two-time All-American, Traylor originally signed with the Oklahoma Sooners. A 6-3, 250 pound linebacker who ran the 40-yard dash in 4.57 seconds, assistant coach Merv Johnson called Traylor a \"tremendous physical specimen,\" and an \"exciting, high-profile recruit.\" Academic problems forced Traylor to leave Oklahoma after only four months, going first to Southeastern Oklahoma State University, in Durant, Oklahoma under head coach Morris Sloan, before eventually settling at the University of Central Oklahoma.\n\nTraylor began his collegiate career at Coffeyville Community College in Coffeyville, Kansas where he played two seasons (1987–88) under head coach Dick Foster. He was named Honorable Mention All-American as a freshman, and was a 1st Team All-American as a sophomore. In two seasons at Coffeyville he totalled 229 tackles, 14 sacks, and 9 interceptions. Traylor transferred and played two seasons at the University of Central Oklahoma. He amassed 146 tackles, five sacks, two interceptions, three forced fumbles and a pair of fumble recoveries at Central Oklahoma. He was a first-team All-Lone Star Conference selection as a senior when he posted 79 tackles, five sacks, two interceptions and two fumble recoveries. On October 18, 2006, Traylor was named one of the top 75 players and coaches in the history of the Lone Star Conference to commemorate the conference's 75th anniversary.\n\nTraylor was projected to be one the top thirty prospects leading up to the 1991 NFL Draft, but was not selected until the Denver Broncos picked him in the third-round (61st pick overall). He played in all 16 regular season games for the Broncos as a rookie, making two starts and recording 27 tackles. His first start of NFL career came against the Seattle Seahawks on September 15, 1991, when he opened at an inside linebacker spot in place of the injured Michael Brooks. Traylor responded with nine tackles in the game. He also started the following week against the San Diego Chargers and recorded ten tackles. He saw action in both playoff games following the season in a reserve role. During the playoffs, he saw some time at fullback in goal line situations. Following the season, he was an named to the All-Rookie Team by Pro Football Weekly and Football Digest.\n\nTraylor started three of the 16 games in which he played with the Broncos in 1992. He collected 39 tackles, a sack and a forced fumble. The first sack of his professional career occurred against the Seahawks on December 20, when he tackled quarterback Stan Gelbaugh for a 14-yard loss. Traylor was waived by the Broncos in June 1993.\n\nTraylor signed with the Los Angeles Raiders on July 19, 1993 but was released just over a month later. \n\nHe signed with the Green Bay Packers on September 14 and played in five games with the team, all in a reserve role. He was also inactive for one game with the Packers. Traylor was released on November 9.\n\nTraylor remained a free agent until being signed by the Kansas City Chiefs on January 5, 1994. He was inactive for the team's first-round playoff game and was waived the following week. He was re-signed by the Chiefs in May 1994, but was released by the team on August 28 during final cutdowns and spent the entire season out of football.\n\nTraylor was once again re-signed by the Chiefs on February 28, 1995. Playing in the World League of American Football (now NFL Europa) Traylor began to add mass to his linebacker's body for a move to the defensive line. He started three of the eight games that he played with the Barcelona Dragons, recording 18 tackles and a pair of fumble recoveries.\n\nTraylor made the Chiefs' roster out of training camp and appeared in all 16 games in a reserve role. He was credited with 19 tackles, 1.5 sacks, a fumble recovery, a forced fumble and four passes defensed. His best game of the year came against the San Diego Chargers, when he recorded three tackles and a sack.\n\nTraylor played in 15 games with the Chiefs in 1996, including one start. He notched 42 tackles, a sack, a forced fumble and a pass defensed. He also blocked a Cole Ford 43-yard field goal attempt against the Oakland Raiders. He had a season-high six tackles against the Pittsburgh Steelers on Monday Night Football, while his lone sack of the season occurred against the Detroit Lions.\n\nIn 1997, Traylor returned to the team that drafted him six years prior, playing now as a defensive tackle. He started all 16 regular season games after re-joining the Broncos, posting 51 tackles, two sacks, an interception and two passes defensed for a unit that ranked fifth in the NFL in overall defense (291.9 ypg). His sack total marked a career-high, a figure he would equal three times in his career. His tackle total led all Broncos linemen. His first career interception came against the Buffalo Bills when he picked off a Todd Collins pass and returned it 62 yards for a touchdown, as the Broncos went on for a 23–20 overtime victory after not arriving in Buffalo until well after midnight the night before because of a snowstorm.\n\nTraylor also started all four playoff games following the season, registering 11 tackles, a sack and two passes defensed. He was awarded a game ball in the Broncos’ Divisional playoff victory at Kansas City when he recorded three tackles, including two tackles for loss, just two days after his mother died. He registered two tackles, including a sack and a pass breakup in AFC Championship game at Pittsburgh. He posted two tackles against the Green Bay Packers on January 25, 1998 as his team won Super Bowl XXXII.\n\nStarting 14 of the 15 games in which he played with the Broncos in 1998, Traylor registered 49 tackles, two sacks, a fumble recovery and two passes defensed. He was part of a unit that ranked third in the NFL in rush defense (80.4 ypg). He was inactive for one game in September with a sprained ankle. Traylor started each of Denver’s three playoff games, including the team's Super Bowl XXXIII victory over the Atlanta Falcons in Miami, Florida. He totaled six tackles and a pass defensed in the playoffs.\n\nIn 1999, Traylor started all 15 games that he played with Denver. He collected 42 tackles, 1.5 sacks, two forced fumbles and a career-high six passes defensed. His lone full sack of the season came against the Detroit Lions, while he forced fumbles against the Jacksonville Jaguars and San Diego Chargers.\n\nIn what would be his final season as a Bronco, Traylor started all 16 regular season games and recorded a career-high 53 total tackles. He also added one sack, a fumble recovery, two forced fumbles and four passes defensed. His tackle total led all Denver linemen. Over a five-game span during the year, he registered 23 tackles, including six against the New England Patriots, one of which was a sack. He had a fumble recovery and forced fumble against the San Diego Chargers on November 19.\n\nTraylor joined the Chicago Bears as an unrestricted free agent in 2001 and went on to start 15 of the 16 games in which he appeared. He had 45 tackles, two sacks, an interception, two forced fumbles and four passes defensed. He was part of a defensive unit that ranked second in the NFL, allowing an average of only 82.1 yards rushing per game. Traylor and Ted Washington controlled the middle of the field, allowing young linebacker Brian Urlacher to roam the field and make plays. Traylor's second career interception came in the season finale against the Jacksonville Jaguars, when he picked off a Mark Brunell pass and returned it 67 yards to the Jaguars’ 9 yard line, setting up a Bears touchdown two plays afterward in a 33–13 victory. He started the team's Divisional Playoff game against the Philadelphia Eagles and was credited with four tackles and a pass defended.\n\nIn 2002, Traylor started all 15 games that he played with the Bears. He registered 41 tackles, a sack, a forced fumble and two passes defensed. He posted a season-high five tackles and registered his only sack against the St. Louis Rams in a Monday night game. The Bears finished with a 4–12 record.\n\nTraylor entered the 2003 season in a battle with Bryan Robinson for a starting position on the Bear's defensive line. Both Robinson and Traylor earned starting positions. Robinson started all sixteen games, and Traylor started all ten games in which he played with Chicago in 2003, recording 18 tackles, a forced fumble and three passes defensed. He was inactive for six contests (Weeks 4–8, 15).\n\nTraylor joined the New England Patriots in 2004 and went on to start 10 of the 16 regular season games at nose tackle. He posted 33 tackles on the year and was part of a unit that ranked sixth in the NFL in rush defense, allowing an average of only 98.3 yards per game. He started each of the final ten regular season games and opened two of three postseason contests. He recorded two tackles in the playoffs, including one in Super Bowl XXXIX as the Patriots beat the Eagles and Traylor earned his third Super Bowl ring. He ended up wearing number 98 because his Patriots teammate Ty Warren was wearing his traditional number 94.\n\nTraylor joined the Miami Dolphins in 2005, as the team needed a nose tackle after then-head coach Nick Saban began to implement a hybrid defense that used the 3–4 on occasion. He started all 13 games in which he played and was inactive for three contests with a knee injury. He tallied 40 tackles, a pair of sacks and two passes defensed on the year. His sack total tied a personal single-season high that he achieved on three previous occasions (1997, 1998, 2001). He was part of a defensive line that allowed a 3.7-yard average per rush attempt, a figure that ranked fourth in the AFC and seventh in the NFL. He underwent surgery on December 6 to remove debris in his right knee, and was inactive for two games before returning to starting lineup for final two games. The season finale marked his 200th career regular season game.\n\nFor the 2006 season, Traylor had 36 tackles and has four sacks for 18 yards in losses. He was placed on Injured Reserve on December 30 with a knee injury, missing the last game of the season. Before going on IR he started 14 games during the year and was inactive once due to knee problems.\n\nTraylor's four sacks on the season represented a single season career high, surpassing his previous single season high of two sacks, which he accomplished four times (1997, 1998, 2001, and 2005). With six sacks in his last 21 regular season games (all with Miami), Traylor has accounted for almost half the number of sacks in those 21 games as he recorded in the first 193 games of his career.\n\nAn unrestricted free agent in the 2007 offseason, Traylor was re-signed by the Dolphins to a two-year deal on March 8. It was previously believed that Fred Evans was the favorite to replace Traylor at nose tackle in 2007 before the veteran re-signed. After a confrontation with teammate Vernon Carey before the final game of the 2007 season, Traylor was kicked off the Dolphins by then-coach Cam Cameron.\n\nOn February 11, 2008, Traylor was one of nine players released by the Dolphins.\n\nTraylor has one son, Brandon. He currently resides in Broken Arrow, Oklahoma. Traylor had two brothers that played sports collegiately: Eric Traylor, who played basketball at New Mexico State from 1991-1993, and Mark Traylor, who played football at Louisiana-Lafayette in the early 1990s. Mark Traylor died after suffering several years from Behçet's disease, a rare immune disorder.\n\n"}
{"id": "2010640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010640", "title": "New Hampshire Route 113", "text": "New Hampshire Route 113\n\nNew Hampshire Route 113 (abbreviated NH 113) is a east–west state highway in east-central New Hampshire. NH 113 begins in the Lakes Region at an intersection with U.S. Route 3 and New Hampshire Route 25 in Holderness, and stretches eastward across the central part of the state, ending at an intersection with U.S. Route 302 in Conway, just a few miles west of the Maine border.\n\nNH 113 is signed as an east-west route, but is oriented in a southwest-northeast fashion. It begins in Holderness, splitting off the Daniel Webster Highway (US 3/NH 25) near Squam Lake. While the D.W. Highway skirts the southern side of the lake, NH 113 heads around the west and north sides of the lake and east into the town of Sandwich, where it meets the northern end of NH 109. Continuing northeast, NH 113A splits off to the north before NH 113 turns east to enter Tamworth, where it joins NH 25 for a short concurrency. NH 113 turns back northeast, intersecting the eastern end of the NH 113A loop before crossing the White Mountain Highway (NH 16) near Chocorua Lake. NH 113 continues eastward into Madison, meeting the northern end of NH 41, and then turns almost due north towards Conway. After entering Conway, NH 113 once again intersects NH 16, this time forming a concurrency running through Conway Village. Along the way the two routes meet the eastern end of the Kancamagus Highway (NH 112). In downtown Conway, NH 113 splits eastward from NH 16 just after intersecting the northern end of NH 153. While NH 16 continues northward towards North Conway, NH 113 heads east towards Center Conway as East Main Street. After about , it reaches its eastern terminus at US 302. East Main Street continues as US 302 towards the Maine state border.\n\nThe historic eastern terminus of NH 113 as signed was at the Maine state line, along current US 302. From Center Conway, NH 113 was cosigned with US 302 and abruptly ended at the state line. Aside from this concurrency being redundant, the signage was potentially confusing, as US 302 intersects Maine State Route 113 just east of the state line.\n\nBy fall 2015, new signage indicated that NH 113 had been truncated to end at US 302 at their junction in Center Conway. Between this intersection and the Maine state line, East Main Street is signed solely as US 302.\n\nMaine State Route 113 is unrelated to NH 113, though the former does cross into New Hampshire and runs briefly within East Conway. At their closest, the routes lie within of each other.\n\nNew Hampshire Route 113A is a loop road in Carroll County, New Hampshire. The highway splits from NH 113 in Tamworth, loops around to the north, west and south, then rejoins NH 113 again in the town of Sandwich. The road provides access to Hemenway State Forest in the White Mountains area of New Hampshire.\n\nThe eastern terminus of NH 113A is in Tamworth at NH 113. In this area, the highway is named Chinook Trail. The western terminus is at NH 113 in Sandwich, where the road is named Whiteface Road.\n\nAlong the route NH 113A passes through the village of Wonalancet in Tamworth and Whiteface and North Sandwich in Sandwich.\n\nNew Hampshire Route 113B (NH 113B), despite its designation, is not a loop road of NH 113. The route, which never intersects nor comes close to NH 113, is a loop of Maine State Route 113, but lies almost entirely within New Hampshire, producing the very unusual situation of one state having a suffixed route off another state's highway.\n\nBoth ends of the highway are located in the town of Stow, Maine, while most of the route () runs in Chatham, New Hampshire. It retains the NH 113B designation in both states. \n\nNH 113B is one of two New Hampshire routes (the other being NH 153) which cross into Maine but retain their designations. North of NH 113B's northern terminus, SR 113 immediately crosses into New Hampshire for a couple of miles while retaining its own designation.\n\n"}
{"id": "2010648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010648", "title": "Cop Tales 2000", "text": "Cop Tales 2000\n\nCop Tales 2000 is a book about the voices and lives of real cops. The book is written by Ed Dee, Paul Bishop, Jim Defilippi, Ernest W. Dorling, Liz Defranco, Gina Gallo, Marlene Loos, Marilyn A. Olsen, and Keith Bettinger.\n"}
{"id": "2010654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010654", "title": "List of high schools in Wisconsin", "text": "List of high schools in Wisconsin\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nCity of Milwaukee\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2010655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010655", "title": "Winning isn't everything; it's the only thing", "text": "Winning isn't everything; it's the only thing\n\n\"Winning isn’t everything; it's the only thing\" is a well-known quotation in sports. It is attributed to UCLA Bruins football coach Henry Russell (\"Red\") Sanders, who spoke two different versions of the quotation. In 1950, at a Cal Poly San Luis Obispo physical education workshop, Sanders told his group: \"Men, I'll be honest. Winning isn't everything\", then following a long pause, \"Men, it's the only thing!\" In a three-part article, December 7, 1953, on Red Sanders, by Bud Furillo of the \"Los Angeles Herald and Express\", the phrase is quoted in the sub head. Furillo said in his unpublished memoirs Sanders first made the statement to him after UCLA's loss to USC in 1949. The phrase is quoted in the 1953 film \"Trouble Along the Way\" by Sherry Jackson's character, Carol Williams. In 1955, in a \"Sports Illustrated\" article preceding the 1956 Rose Bowl, he was quoted as saying \"Sure, winning isn't every thing; it's the only thing.\"\n\nThe quotation is widely, but wrongly attributed to American football coach Vince Lombardi, who probably heard the phrase from UCLA coach Sanders. Lombardi is on record using the quotation as early as 1959 in his opening talk on the first day of the Packers’ training camp. The quotation captured the American public's attention during Lombardi's highly successful reign as coach of the Packers in the 1960s. Over time, the quotation took on a life of its own. The words graced the walls of locker rooms, ignited pre-game pep talks, and echoed from the rafters of banquet halls. According to the late James Michener's \"Sports in America\", Lombardi claimed to have been misquoted. What he intended to say was \"Winning isn't everything. The will to win is the only thing.\" However, Lombardi is on record repeating the original version of the quotation on several occasions.\n\nIts assertion about the importance of winning has been touted as a basic tenet of the American sports creed and, at the same time, identified as encapsulating what is purportedly wrong with competitive sports. \nThis credo has served as counterpoint to the well known sentiment by sports journalist Grantland Rice that, \"it's not that you won or lost but how you played the game\", and to the modern Olympic creed expressed by its founder Pierre de Coubertin: \"The most important thing. . . is not winning but taking part\".\n\nWhile at UCLA, another famous quote was attributed to Sanders regarding the UCLA–USC rivalry, \"Beating 'SC is not a matter of life or death, it's more important than that.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2010659", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010659", "title": "South African Police decorations", "text": "South African Police decorations\n\nAn overview of South African police decorations and medals, which form part of the South African honours system.\n\nThe South African Police was established in 1913 as a national police force. It had a secondary military role, which came to the fore in World War I and again in World War II.\n\nThe SAP was eligible for the British King's Police Medal, which was awarded annually throughout the British Empire. This was discontinued in 1933, because South Africa had become independent as a member of the new British Commonwealth, and it was replaced in 1937 by a special South African issue of the medal. From 1923, the SAP also had its own long service medal, which doubled as a medal for gallantry. The medals available to the SAP between 1923 and 1963 were thus:\n\n\n\nUntil 1952, they were incorporated into the British honours system. Thereafter they formed part of the new South African honours system.\n\nAfter South Africa became a republic (in 1961), the government instituted an entirely new series of decorations and medals for the SAP. It was added to several times over the years:\n\n\n\n\nIn 1994, the SAP amalgamated with the police forces of the former \"homelands\" inside South Africa, to form the \"South African Police Service\".\n\nThe South African Railways Police was established in 1934, to police the country's railways and harbours. It was later responsible for air services too. The SARP was modeled on the SAP, and shared the King's/Queen's Police Medal with it. It also had its own long service medal: the Railways Police Good Service Medal (1934–66).\n\nAn entirely new series of decorations and medals was instituted for the SARP in 1966, to match those established for the SAP in 1963. The series was enlarged in 1980, to correspond to the changes made to the SAP awards in 1979. The full range of honours was:\n\n\n\nThe SARP was amalgamated into the SA Police on 1 October 1986, with all its personnel, assets and equipment transferred to the SAP.\n\nThe South African Police Service, which was formed in 1994 by amalgamating the SAP and the police forces of the former homelands, used the SAP decorations and medals until 2004, when a new series of decorations was instituted:\n\n\n\n\nIn 1998, the municipal and metropolitan council police forces were brought under the auspices of the SA Police Service Act, and became collectively known as the Municipal/Metropolitan Police Service. A series of decorations and medals was instituted for them in 2008.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2010662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010662", "title": "Red Wharf Bay", "text": "Red Wharf Bay\n\nTraeth Coch (Welsh for \"red beach\") is a wide sandy bay and an area of outstanding natural beauty on the east coast of the island of Anglesey in Wales. The bay is also known in English as Red Wharf Bay and lies between the villages of Pentraeth and Benllech. It is also close to Castell Mawr Rock, thought to be the site of an Iron Age fort.\n\nRed Wharf Bay beach itself has an immense expanse of sand; at low tide almost of sand is uncovered. The sand and the sea life disappears beneath the waves twice a day and reappears just a few hours later.\n\nThe village of Red Wharf Bay is situated on the western shore of the bay. It is small but perfectly formed. The village is linked to Benllech and Pentraeth via the Anglesey Coastal Path. Red Wharf Bay offers convenient places to eat or drink, with three restaurants—The Tavern on the Bay, The Ship Inn, and The Boathouse—all boasting stunning views of the bay.\n\nThe bay attracts an abundance or wildlife, including a large number of waterfowl and wading birds, such as oystercatchers, shelduck, purple sandpipers, curlew and dunlin. The bay is bordered by salt marshes and sand dunes. Some of these dunes are rich in shell fragments that support the flora common to lime-rich areas, including the pyramidal orchid.\n\nEach year the Red Wharf Bay Sailing Club Anglesey Offshore Dinghy Race takes place from Beaumaris to Traeth Bychan. The race runs up the Menai Strait and down the Anglesey coast.\n\nThere was once a railway line which terminated at the bay, the Red Wharf Bay branch line, which left the Anglesey Central Railway at Pentre Berw. Stone for the Admiralty Arch, Holyhead was quarried near the bay.\n\n"}
{"id": "2010664", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010664", "title": "Cleopatra IV of Egypt", "text": "Cleopatra IV of Egypt\n\nCleopatra IV () was Queen of Egypt briefly from 116 to 115 BC, jointly with her husband Ptolemy IX Lathyros. She later became queen consort of Syria as the wife of Antiochus IX Cyzicenus.\n\nCleopatra IV was the daughter of Ptolemy VIII Physcon and Cleopatra III of Egypt. She was born between 138 and 135 BC. She was the sister of Ptolemy IX, Ptolemy X, Cleopatra Selene I and Tryphaena.\n\nCleopatra IV married her brother Ptolemy IX when he was still a prince in c. 119/118 BC. Cleopatra IV may be the mother of Ptolemy XII Auletes and Ptolemy of Cyprus, although an unnamed concubine could be the mother of these two men as well.\n\nIn c. 115 BC Cleopatra III forced Cleopatra IV and Ptolemy IX to divorce. She replaced Cleopatra IV with her sister Cleopatra Selene.\n\nAfter her forced divorce, Cleopatra IV fled Egypt and went to Cyprus, where she married Antiochus IX Cyzicenus and brought him the army of his half brother Seleucid King Antiochus VIII Grypus of Syria, which she had convinced to follow her. Grypus fought Cyzicenus and eventually chased him to Antioch. Grypus was married to Cleopatra IV's sister Tryphaena. Tryphaena decided that Cleopatra IV should die and over the protests of her husband summoned some soldiers and had Cleopatra IV murdered in the sanctuary of Daphne in Antioch.\n\nIn his comprehensive website about Ptolemaic genealogy, Christopher Bennett also notes the possibility that Cleopatra IV, from her brief marriage to Antiochus IX Cyzicenus, may have been the mother of the later Seleucid monarch, Antiochus X Eusebes (\"the Pious\"). Antiochus X would go on to marry Cleopatra IV's younger sister, Cleopatra Selene, thus making him the spouse of a woman who was his stepmother (Selene married both of her sisters' widowers, Grypus and Cyzicenus, before marrying Eusebes) and perhaps his maternal aunt.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2010670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010670", "title": "National symbols of the United States", "text": "National symbols of the United States\n\nNational symbols of the United States are the symbols used to represent the United States of America.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2010673", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010673", "title": "Lechia Lwów", "text": "Lechia Lwów\n\nLechia Lwów (full name: Lwowski Klub Sportowy \"Lechia\" Lwów) was the first Polish professional association football club, founded in summer 1903 in Lwów by students of the 3rd and 4th gymnasiums as well as former members of the Sokół football department.\n\nDuring the Second Republic of Poland the club was one of four teams from Lwów that played in the Polish Football First league (season 1931 – 12th). The club became two times champion of Lwów District League (liga okręgowa) where it spent 17 seasons. After invasion of Poland by the Soviet forces in 1939 the club was dissolved and its place was formed FC Lokomotyv Lviv. The club's name comes from Lechia, the original name for Poland.\n\nThe club's tradition as a Polish club was continued by people expelled from Lwów who moved to Gdańsk and created Lechia Gdansk after war in 1945 such as Ryszard Koncewicz.\n\n\n\n\n\nIn 2019, the Lechia Lwów team had been reconstructed by the historical reconstruction association in Poland as part of the Retro Liga project. The players play in carefully recreated costumes and shoes according to the rules of 1938. The teams chosen for the Retro Liga were those forced to disband in 1939 after the outbreak of World War II. The other teams who took part were WKS Kutno, WKS Łowicz, WKS Grodno (Grodno were not reformed as the borders after WWII meant they were now in Belorussian territory), and Śmigły Wilno (Śmigły were not reformed as the borders after WWII meant they were now in Lithuanian territory).\n\nLechia Lwów were crowned the inaugural winners of the Retro Liga for the 2019 season.\n\n"}
{"id": "2010686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010686", "title": "Pefferlaw, Ontario", "text": "Pefferlaw, Ontario\n\nPefferlaw is a community within the Town of Georgina, located 3 kilometres south of the southeastern shores of Lake Simcoe and in the eastern end of the town. The Pefferlaw River runs just south of the community's commercial district. Pefferlaw is passed on the north by Highway 48 and Lake Ridge Road (Durham Road 23) to the east, and is serviced by Pefferlaw Road which links these two traffic arteries. Area code 905 is bounded to the west, but Pefferlaw along with Virginia Beach, Udora and Port Bolster remains in the 705 area code. The Canadian National railway passes through Pefferlaw and, until the early 1990s, served a train station in the community's commercial district. This railway links Toronto with Orillia and Northern Ontario with Via Rail transcontinental trains heading to Vancouver.\n\nCensus information is not available for Pefferlaw. It is counted as part of the Georgina Census division.\n\n\nThe town is largely centered around the Pefferlaw Dam, blocking the Pefferlaw River. The dam is operated by the Lake Simcoe Region Conservation Authority. Pefferlaw's commercial district lies just north of the dam, and features a supermarket, hotel, youth centre, automobile service station, Canada Post office, medical centre with pharmacy, Liquor Control Board of Ontario retail store, and a branch of the Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce. The town features several public facilities operated by the Town of Georgina, including a public library, community centre, fire station, and a large multi-use park. Cedardale Church is now the only place of worship in Pefferlaw, located just north of the intersection of Morning Glory Road and Pefferlaw Road. The York Region District School Board operates Morning Glory Public School, an elementary school 5 minutes north of town on Highway 48.\n\nPefferlaw is primarily situated in a forest setting. Farmlands are to the west, the northwest and the north. More farmlands are east of Lake Ridge Road and Pefferlaw. The forests are almost connected with the forests south of Sutton. The forests cover most of the area around Pefferlaw and to the south with a few farmlands as well as within the shoreline of Lake Simcoe. The forests are mainly composed of pine and other varieties of trees and the size is about 600 to 700 square kilometres and about 80% of the area around Pefferlaw.\n\n\n\nPefferlaw is located about 13 kilometres southwest of Beaverton, about 15 kilometres east of Sutton, and about 45 kilometres south of Orillia. It is 37 kilometres west of Lindsay, 23 kilometres north of Uxbridge, about 50 kilometres north of Whitby, about 90 kilometres northeast of Toronto, and 40 kilometres northeast of the nearest major commercial centre and seat of York Region, Newmarket.\n\nPefferlaw was founded in the late 1820s by Captain William Johnson; a British Naval Officer who was released from service in 1815 following the Battle of Waterloo. The name, Pefferlaw, was suggested to Captain Johnson by his brother in remembrance of a field among the heather on their old homestead and means, “a beautiful greensward.” \n\nThe first preserved diaries of William Johnson begin in 1832. By that time he had a sawmill, woolen mill and gristmill built at Pefferlaw.\n\nThe first store in the village of Pefferlaw was built in August 1833. Soon after, Robert Johnson, brother of William, took over running the store and shortly thereafter built a large two-story red brick house on the edge of the bank beside the store which still stands today. The second store in Pefferlaw was built by George Johnson, son of Captain William, this in 1856.\n\nBanking came to Pefferlaw with the arrival of the C.N.R. Railway in 1906.\n\nThe Pefferlaw area like all early hamlets had its share of hotels – one at every crossroad. The Morning Glory Hotel was built in the 1860s and stood for many years on the site of the present day Morning Glory Public School. The tavern was well patronized by river drivers, lumber workers and stage coach passengers and drivers. The Mansion House Hotel was built in 1884. When it changed owners in 1906 the establishment was renamed, Hotel Belvedere.\n\nCaptain Johnson died in 1851 at \"Oldcastle\", lot 6, conc. 7, Georgina, which was always his home. He is buried there.\n\n"}
{"id": "2010687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010687", "title": "Zuwarah", "text": "Zuwarah\n\nZuwarah, or Zuwara or Zwara (Berber language: At Willul or Zwara, ) is a coastal Berber-speaking city in Libya. \n\nZuwara or At Willul is famous for its beaches and seafood. It is situated west of Tripoli and from the Tunisian border. It is the capital of the Nuqat al Khams district. Its population speaks Zuwara Berber, a Zenati Berber language.\n\nThe settlement was first mentioned by the traveller al-Tidjani in the years 1306-1309 as \"Zwara al-saghirah\" (\"Little Zwarah\"). In a Catalan sailing manual (1375) it was called as Punta dar Zoyara. The town is mentioned by Leo Africanus in the 16th century. It later served as the western outpost of Italian Libya (1912–43), being the terminus of the now-defunct Italian Libya Railway from Tripoli to the east. Its artificial harbour shelters a motorized fishing fleet. Cereals, dates, and esparto grass (used to make cordage, shoes, and paper) are local products.\n\nIt was in 1973 in Zuwara that Muammar Gaddafi first proclaimed the Libyan \"Cultural Revolution\".\n\nIn the 2011 Libyan Civil War battles, the city was reported by Al Jazeera to be under control of the local anti-Gaddafi forces on 23 February 2011, and lost by the government of Muammar Gaddafi. Thousands of anti-government protesters, gathered in the Zuwara town square on 24 February, repulsed another Libyan Army attempt to retake the city. Loyalist forces used the pro-government towns of Jumayl and Riqdalin to the south as bases for their attacks on the city. However, from March onwards, the city was under the control of loyalist forces. Amidst the August rebel coastal offensive, rebels took Zuwara on 18 August.\n\nIn September 2011, and following the fall of the Gaddafi government, Zuwara was the first City in Libya to democratically elect its local council.\n\nZuwara has a hot semi-arid climate (Köppen climate classification \"BSh\").\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2010693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010693", "title": "The Mighty Peking Man", "text": "The Mighty Peking Man\n\nThe Mighty Peking Man (猩猩王) (Mandarin: \"Xingxing Wang\" - which translates to \"Gorilla King\" in English) is a 1977 monster film produced by Shaw Brothers Studio to capitalize on the craze surrounding the 1976 remake of \"King Kong\". The film was originally released in the United states with the English dub in 1980 as \"Goliathon\".\n\nThe film was directed by Ho Meng Hua and produced by Runme Shaw; the special effects were directed by Sadamasa Arikawa, with Koichi Kawakita as assistant FX director, who would move on to the Heisei Godzilla movies and the Heisei Gamera trilogy]. It starred Danny Lee and Evelyne Kraft.\n\nA party from Hong Kong headed up by Johnny (Danny Lee) are exploring the Indian side of the Himalayan mountains and discover the eponymous Peking Man, a Yeti, along with a beautiful blonde wild woman named Samantha (Evelyne Kraft) whose parents had been killed in a plane crash. Samantha was raised by Utam (the Peking Man) with nothing to wear but an animal-skin bikini. Like Tarzan, she has learned both to swing through the trees on vines and to communicate with and command the jungle animals, with the exception of a venomous snake who bites her on the inner thigh, requiring the hero Johnny to suck out the poison while Samantha's leopard friend and Utam fight the snake. Shortly thereafter, they fall in love.\n\nJohnny and his partners bring Samantha and Utam to Hong Kong, where Utam goes on display to the incredulous public. While in Hong Kong, Samantha doesn't seem to prefer women's clothing and continues to wear her animal-skin bikini. Johnny, meanwhile, reconciles with the girlfriend whose romantic betrayal with his brother had been the impetus behind his sudden decision to explore the Himalayas. Samantha sees this and runs off, nearly getting raped. Utam goes berserk and squashes the rapist. During Samantha's running, Utam ends up on a rampage. Utam then goes to the tallest building he can find (namely the Jardine House), and climbs it. Johnny and Samantha catch up to Utam and plan to get him out of Hong Kong and back to their jungle. Utam is burned/shot to death by several helicopters and planes in a scene greatly reminiscent of the ending of Kong, and falls off. Samantha is seemingly killed in an explosion during the conflict while Johnny receives a minor gunshot wound to the lower leg.\n\n\n\"The Mighty Peking Man\" had a budget of six million Hong Kong dollars for the Shaw Bros. studio. The film took over a year to complete and was shot in Mysore, India.\n\"The Mighty Peking Man\" was distributed by Shaw Bros. in Hong Kong.\n\n\"Variety\" reviewed a 100 minute long Cantonese-language version of the film stating it was an \"interesting if not unique Hongkong-made escapist entertainment for the inquisitive middle-of-the-roaders audience of other countries.\" and \"it is high camp, chinese style and for this reason it just might make it in less demanding markets.\"\n\nIn retrospective reviews, Roger Ebert gave the film three stars out of a possible four in the \"Chicago Sun-Times\", and, incidentally, actually upgraded his rating for the thematically similar \"Infra-Man\":\"\"Mighty Peking Man\" is very funny, although a shade off the high mark of \"Infra-Man\", which was made a year earlier, and is my favorite Hong Kong monster film. Both were produced by the legendary Runme Shaw, who, having tasted greatness, obviously hoped to repeat. I find to my astonishment that I gave \"Infra-Man\" only two and a half stars when I reviewed it. That was 22 years ago, but a fellow will remember a lot of things you wouldn't think he'd remember. I'll bet a month hasn't gone by since that I haven't thought of that film. I am awarding \"Mighty Peking Man\" three stars, for general goofiness and a certain level of insane genius, but I cannot in good conscience rate it higher than \"Infra-Man\". So, in answer to those correspondents who ask if I have ever changed a rating on a movie: Yes, \"Infra-Man\" moves up to three stars.\n\n"}
{"id": "2010699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010699", "title": "François d'Agincourt", "text": "François d'Agincourt\n\nFrançois d'Agincourt (also d'Agincour, Dagincourt, Dagincour) (1684 – 30 April 1758) was a French harpsichordist, organist, and composer. He spent most of his life in Rouen, his native city, where he worked as organist of the Rouen Cathedral and of three smaller churches. Highly regarded during his lifetime, d'Agincourt was one of the organists of the royal chapel. The single surviving book of harpsichord music by him contains masterful pieces inspired by François Couperin; also extant are some 40 organ works that survive in manuscript copies.\n\nD'Agincourt was born in Rouen and received his early musical training there. He soon left for Paris where he probably studied under Nicolas Lebègue. Between 1701 and 1706 he worked as organist of Sainte-Madeleine-en-la-Cité in Paris, and in 1706 he went back to Rouen and became organist of the Rouen Cathedral, succeeding Jacques Boyvin. He kept the post until his death some 52 years later. Later he also took jobs at St. Herbland, the Abbey of Saint-Ouen (he would hold both of these until his death as well), and at St. Jean, all in Rouen. By 1714 he was sufficiently well-known and respected to be appointed one of the four organists of the royal chapel. Jacques Duphly studied with d'Agincourt about 1730–31, but his surviving works do not show any considerable influence of his teacher's style.\n\nD'Agincourt only published a single collection of his music, \"1er livre de clavecin\" (Paris, 1733). It contains 43 pieces for harpsichord, clearly influenced by François Couperin: the pieces are organized into \"ordres\", make good use of ornamentation, and many are character pieces: genre scenes, portraits (sometimes double portraits), etc. D'Agincourt's organ music, which survives in manuscript copies, comprises some 46 pieces for liturgical use. They are more progressive than Couperin's organ works, with frequent use of elements of the \"style galant\". The pieces are organized according to mode, as is usual in French organ music, but for unknown reasons d'Agincourt omits the third mode altogether. Suites in the first three modes (i.e., 1, 2, and 4) are less developed than the remaining ones. Apart from keyboard pieces, only three songs for soloist and basso continuo are known, published in the anthology \"Recueil d'airs sérieux et à boire\" in 1713 and 1716.\n\nA portrait of one Barthélemy-Jean-Claude Pupil is frequently misidentified as a portrait of d'Agincourt.\n\n\n\"Suite du 2e ton\" (organ)\n"}
{"id": "2010702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010702", "title": "UR-100", "text": "UR-100\n\nThe UR-100 () was an intercontinental ballistic missile (ICBM) developed and deployed by the Soviet Union from 1966 to 1996. UR () in its designation stood for Universal Rocket (). It was known during the Cold War by the NATO reporting name SS-11 Sego and internally by the GRAU index 8K84. The Strela and Rokot carrier rockets are based on it.\n\nThe similar designation \"UR-100MR\" () actually refers to an entirely different missile, the MR-UR-100 Sotka (SS-17 Spanker).\n\nThe UR-100 was a two-stage liquid-propellant lightweight ICBM. Initial versions carried a single warhead of 0.5 to 1.1 Mt yield, while later versions could carry three or six MIRV warheads. The missile was silo-launched. 15P784 silo design (by KBOM, \"Design Bureau of Common Machinery\", of V.P.Barmin) was greatly simplified in comparison to earlier missiles. Facilities consisted of hardened, un-manned silos controlled by a single central command post. This was the first soviet ICBM (8K84M, entered service on 3 October 1971) equipped with missile defense countermeasure \"Palma\" by NII-108 of V.Gerasimenko.\n\n\nFormations included:\n\nThe Strela and Rokot carrier rockets are based on the UR-100.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2010703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010703", "title": "Southeast Unitarian Universalist Summer Institute", "text": "Southeast Unitarian Universalist Summer Institute\n\nSoutheast Unitarian Universalist Summer Institute (SUUSI) is an intergenerational community of approximately 1,000 people who gather each July. They describe themselves as a Unitarian Universalist (UU) summer camp. People attending SUUSI predominantly abide by the teachings of Unitarian Universalism, but many participants belong to other denominations or faiths. Attendees range in age from newborn to elderly.\n\nThe mission of SUUSI is to provide a one-week experience evoking the best within us, in concert with Unitarian Universalist principles. SUUSI offers the opportunity to share an intergenerational environment of love, personal freedom, ethics, and joy in an intentional, nonjudgmental community.\n\nIn early 1950, some thirty-five individuals gathered \"to share in joyful community\" at Lake Waccamaw, North Carolina. Since 1990 it took place on the campus of Virginia Tech, in Blacksburg, but in 2008 it returned to the college campus of Radford University in Radford, Virginia, where it had been held previously. In 2016 SUUSI returned to North Carolina moving to the campus of Western Carolina University in Cullowhee.\n\nMany people attend SUUSI for its spiritual impact. Daily programming includes minister-led morning talks as well as evening worship services.\n\nTaught entirely by volunteers, SUUSI workshops cover a range of topics, including art, history, science, technology, politics, religion and culture.\n\nMany participants take nature trips to experience the local environment in all its biodiversity. These trips may focus on local trails, caves, rivers or terrain; likewise, they may focus on specific wildflowers, trees, animals, insects, etc. SUUSI nature trips practice a Leave No Trace (LNT) outdoor ethics.\n\nSUUSI's evening programming includes nightly performances and events. Typical offerings include cabarets, talent shows, dance venues (restricted by age), a coffeehouse lounge and movie nights. SUUSI frequently attracts professional-level entertainers for nightly performance.\n\nSUUSI is an independent, incorporated, not-for-profit organization governed by its bylaws and policy manual. SUUSI has a 14-member Board of Trustees, of which 11 are voting members. The Board chooses the Director of the Institute and approves the operating budget. Board positions are both elected and appointed. Unitarian Universalist churches are organized into regional districts. Several SUUSI Board positions are appointed by the three southeastern UU district boards. At large and youth representatives are elected at SUUSI. SUUSI is a member of the Council of Unitarian Universalist Camps and Conferences.\n\nThe Core Staff is composed of the Director and staff leaders who coordinate the numerous departments and activities associated with this one-week Institute and camp. Departments include Communications, Denominational Affairs, Equipment, Locations, Nature, Nightlife, Registration/Housing, Teens, Treasurer, Workshops, Youth and Young Adults. In addition, approximately 150 SUUSI attendees complete the totally volunteer staff needed to manage all the camp activities. All SUUSI staff members report to a Core Staff member, ultimately reporting to the Director, who in turn reports to the above mentioned board.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2010724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010724", "title": "Edward Gnehm", "text": "Edward Gnehm\n\nEdward William Gnehm, Jr., also known as Skip Gnehm (born November 10, 1944) is an American diplomat who most recently served as the U.S. ambassador to Jordan. He is now a faculty member at George Washington University's Elliott School of International Affairs.\n\nGnehm attended Albany High School and subsequently attended the George Washington University in Washington, D.C., where he earned a bachelor's degree in International Affairs in 1966. Gnehm completed his master's degree in 1968, and spent one year of his graduate studies at the American University in Cairo under a post-graduate Rotary International Fellowship. He is a member of the Sigma Chi fraternity and Delta Phi Epsilon (The National Professional Foreign Service Fraternity).\n\nGnehm joined the U.S. Department of State in 1969 and has forged a long and distinguished diplomatic career in the U.S. Foreign Service. His positions included: Director General of the Foreign Service and Director of Personnel for the Department of State; Deputy Permanent Representative of the United States to the United Nations; Deputy Assistant Secretary of State, Bureau of Near East and South Asian Affairs; Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Near East and South Asia; Deputy Chief of Mission, American Embassy, Amman, Jordan, and Embassy Sanaa, Yemen; head of the U.S. Liaison Office, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia; and Deputy Principal Officer, U.S. Interests Section, Damascus, Syria.\n\nHe was Ambassador to Kuwait from 1991 to 1994; Ambassador to Australia from 2000 to 2001; and Ambassador to Jordan from 2001 to 2004.\n\nThroughout his career, Gnehm has remained active at George Washington, having served both on the Board of Trustees, and as the vice president of the George Washington Alumni Association. Gnehm won the 2015 Harry Harding Teaching Award \"for sustained excellence in teaching and extraordinary contributions to the education of Elliott School students.\" Continuing in the family tradition, Gnehm's son Edward attended George Washington University where he received his BA and an MBA.\n\n\nGnehm is married to the former Margaret Scott of Macon, Georgia; together they have two children, Cheryl and Edward III.\n\n"}
{"id": "2010734", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010734", "title": "Ed Dee", "text": "Ed Dee\n\nEd Dee is an author, born in Yonkers, New York on February 3, 1940. He graduated from Sacred Heart High School, then served two years in the United States Army. In 1962 in joined the New York City Police Department (NYPD). He earned a BA from Fordham University. He retired from the NYPD as a lieutenant and then he began to write. He earned an MFA in creative writing from Arizona State University. His first novel, \"14 Peck Slip\", was named a notable book of the year in 1994 by \"The New York Times\". \"Bronx Angel\" in (1995), \"Little Boy Blue\" (1997), and \"Nightbird\" (1999) followed. His latest book \"The Con Man's Daughter\" was released in fall 2003. He has two daughters and four grandchildren. He lives in Delaware with his wife Nancy.\n\n"}
{"id": "2010744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010744", "title": "Stealth (film)", "text": "Stealth (film)\n\nStealth is a 2005 American military science fiction action film directed by Rob Cohen and written by W. D. Richter, and starring Josh Lucas, Jessica Biel, Jamie Foxx, Sam Shepard, Joe Morton and Richard Roxburgh. The film follows three top fighter pilots as they join a project to develop an automated robotic stealth aircraft.\n\nReleased on July 29, 2005 by Columbia Pictures, the film was a box office bomb, grossing $79 million worldwide against a budget of $135 million. It lost $79 million for the studio, one of the worst losses in cinematic history.\n\nIn the near future, the U.S. Navy develops the F/A-37 Talon, a single-seat fighter-bomber with amazing payload, range, speed, and stealth capabilities. Although hundreds of pilots apply for the program, it is super secret and thus purposefully kept small. The program employs three planes, piloted by Lieutenants Ben Gannon, Kara Wade, and Henry Purcell. Captain George Cummings is the overall head.\n\nCummings hires Dr. Keith Orbit to develop an artificial intelligence, the \"EDI\", to control an unmanned jet that further advances the program. EDI joins the others on the in the Philippine Sea to learn combat maneuvers from the pilots. This sparks some internal controversy, on the basis that human pilots possess both creativity and moral judgment regarding the ugliness of war, while a machine pilot is not subject to the physical limitations of a human pilot and, at least in theory, does not suffer from ego.\n\nThe team is training EDI in air combat maneuvers when they are unexpectedly reassigned to take out the heads of three terrorist cells at a conference in downtown Rangoon. EDI calculates that mission success can be achieved only through a vertical strike, which could cause a human pilot to black out and cause collateral damage. Command orders EDI to take the shot, but Gannon ignores the order, successfully carrying out the strike himself.\n\nAs the team returns to the \"Lincoln\", EDI is hit by lightning, which reprograms its neural patterns. Though EDI is discovered to be learning exponentially, developing a rudimentary ethical code and an ego, Cummings refuses to take it offline. During a mission to destroy stolen nuclear warheads in Tajikistan, Wade realizes that the nuclear debris will cause significant collateral damage. The human pilots abort, but EDI defies orders and destroys the warheads, causing extensive radioactive fallout as well as the projected civilian casualties.\n\nCummings orders the unit return to base, but EDI refuses to stand down. Gannon, taking things into his own hands, orders that EDI be shot down. In the ensuing dogfight, Purcell crashes into a mountainside after a missile he fires at EDI explodes on the mountain, blinding him, and Wade's plane is damaged by debris from the explosion, which in turn triggers her plane's auto-destruct, forcing her to eject over North Korea. Gannon must alone stop EDI from executing a twenty-year-old war scenario called \"Caviar Sweep\" and attacking a false target in Russia.\n\nGannon chases EDI into Russian territory, where they defeat several Russian SU-37s over Lake Baikal, but both planes are damaged. Gannon calls a truce with EDI in order to keep it both from falling into enemy hands and to be able to rescue Wade from North Korea. Cummings instructs him to make an emergency landing with EDI in Alaska. Accountable for ignoring EDI's behavior and facing court-martial, Cummings seeks to eliminate witnesses by leaving Wade stranded in North Koreawhere she is being pursued by the Korean People's Army as she heads to the southern borderand by ordering Gannon eliminated in Alaska, where EDI's data will also be erased.\n\nGannon’s Talon crash lands at the Alaska base. Suspecting Cummings' treachery, he narrowly escapes an assassination attempt by a doctor, who tries to inject him with a supposed tetanus serum. As the pair struggle, the doctor is injected with the poison and dies. Meanwhile, when Orbit places EDI into an interface, the AI expresses sadness and regret for its transgressions. Orbit realizes that EDI has developed sentience, and he is unwilling to erase EDI's memory. Gannon uses EDI's weapons systems to decimate the armed personnel, allowing Orbit to safely flee, then flies off to North Korea in EDI’s plane, contacting the \"Lincoln\" skipper, Captain Dick Marshfield, to inform him about Cummings' deceit. Marshfield confronts Cummings, who commits suicide during a voicemail message to his financial contact, Ray.\n\nGannon finds the injured and embattled Wade nearing the border. He and EDI land and he runs to her aid. Out of ammunition and taking damage from a Mi-8 helicopter, EDI sacrifices itself by ramming the helicopter, destroying both. This allows Gannon and Wade to cross on foot into South Korea, where they are rescued by US military forces.\n\nAfter attending Purcell's funeral, Gannon awkwardly expresses his feelings of love to Wade.\n\nIn a post-credits scene, in the debris-strewn border between North and South Korea, EDI's \"brain\" is seen turning back on.\n\n\n\"Stealth\" features several shots of action on aircraft carriers. Scenes featuring the cast were shot on board the US Navy aircraft carrier , while additional scenes were shot on board the similar and .\n\nThe film was shot in Thailand, Australia (Blue Mountains National Park in New South Wales and Flinders Ranges in South Australia), and New Zealand. Cohen cited Macross as an inspiration for the film.\n\n\"Stealth\" featured many presently used, futuristic, or theoretical technologies at the time of release. These include:\n\nIn March 2005, Leo Stoller, who claimed to own trademark rights to the word \"stealth\", served Columbia Pictures with a \"cease and desist\" letter threatening litigation if they did not rename the film to something \"non infringing\". Columbia preemptively sued Stoller, and the court entered a consent judgment and permanent injunction in favor of Columbia Pictures and against Stoller in November 2005.\n\nThe Environmental Defender’s Office, a community legal centre specialising in environmental law, successfully represented the Blue Mountains Conservation Society Inc. in its attempts to prevent filming of \"Stealth\" in the Grose Wilderness area of the Blue Mountains National Park, NSW, Australia, in May 2004. Justice Lloyd of the New South Wales Land and Environment Court ruled that the proposed commercial filming of scenes in the area was unlawful, in a significant statement on the value of wilderness areas and the protection that should be afforded to them. The Society claimed that the authority and consent for the commercial filming activities were in breach of the National Parks and Wildlife Act 1974 and the Wilderness Act 1987. Justice Lloyd accepted the Society’s arguments that the proposed commercial filming in a wilderness area was completely against the intended use of the land, concluding his judgment with the words, \"wilderness is sacrosanct\".\n\nThe soundtrack was released on 12 July 2005 on Epic Records. American rock band Incubus wrote and recorded three new songs for the film. According to guitarist Mike Einziger, Cohen was a big fan and \"wouldn't stop asking.\" It was the first time the band had composed original music for a soundtrack, with frontman Brandon Boyd citing \"Princes of the Universe\" by Queen as an inspiration for writing music for a film. \"Neither of Us Can See\" is also notable for being Incubus' first duet, featuring vocals from Chrissie Hynde. The song is featured in the end credits.\n\nThe film cost $135 million to produce (excluding advertising costs) and was released in 3,495 theaters, but had an opening weekend of only $13.3 million for an average of only $3,792 per theater, peaking at 4th place behind \"Wedding Crashers\", \"Charlie and the Chocolate Factory\" and \"Sky High\". It then lost 55% of its audience in its second weekend dropping to 7th place to $5.9 million, while remaining at 3,495 theaters and averaging just $1,695 per theater. In its third weekend, it lost 1,455 theaters, and a further 64 percent of its audience, dropping to 11th, with just $2.2 million, for an average of just $1,055 from 2,040 theaters.\n\nIt ended up making $32.1 million in the United States and Canada, and $47.2 million internationally, for a total worldwide gross of $79.3 million, making it the biggest money loser in a series of financial disasters released by Columbia Pictures in 2005 next to \"\", \"Bewitched\", \"Rent\", \"Zathura\", \"Into the Blue\", \"Man of the House\" and \"Lords of Dogtown\".\n\nOn Rotten Tomatoes, the film has an approval rating of 12% based on 141 reviews, with an average rating of 3.74/10. The site's critical consensus reads, \"Loud, preposterous, and predictable, \"Stealth\" borrows heavily and unsuccessfully from \"Top Gun\" and \"\".\" On Metacritic, the film has a weighted average score of 35 out of 100, based on 31 critics, indicating \"generally unfavorable reviews\". Audiences surveyed by CinemaScore gave the film a grade \"B-\" on scale of A to F.\n\nRoger Ebert commented that the film was \"a dumbed-down \"Top Gun\" crossed with the HAL 9000 plot from \"2001\".\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2010745", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010745", "title": "New Hampshire Route 115A", "text": "New Hampshire Route 115A\n\nNew Hampshire Route 115A (abbreviated NH 115A) is a north–south state highway in Coos County, New Hampshire. The southern terminus of the road is at New Hampshire Route 115 south of Jefferson at Old Cherry Mountain Road. The northern terminus of NH 115A is at U.S. Route 2 in Jefferson at the Old Corner Store.\n\nNH 115A intersects Whipple Road and Israel's River Road, designated New Hampshire Route 115B but sparsely signed as such, a continuation of the Turnpike Road, built by Colonel Whipple for access from the village of Riverton (Jefferson Mills) to Portland, Maine in the late 18th century. It also crosses the old railroad grade once used by the Boston and Maine Railroad for access to Gorham and the private siding that once serviced the Waumbek Hotel complex. The Portland-Montreal Pipe Line also crosses NH 115A, just below the old Waumbek site. The pipeline right-of-way also serves as \"Corridor 5\" of the local snowmobile trail system.\n\nThe local name of NH 115A is Meadows Road, as it once served the Jefferson Meadows train station and post office. The road passes the Forest Vale Cemetery, where lies the only victim of the Stanley Slide of 1885, which brought a large part of Cherry Mountain down upon the highway.\n\nNH 115A between NH 115 and NH 115B was formerly part of NH 115, including two right-angle turns, at least until the 1980s, when the current, more direct NH 115 was built.\n\nNH 115A crosses the wide Israel River valley and passes through what was once a booming dairy industry, now represented by a single dairy farm.\n"}
{"id": "2010746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010746", "title": "New Hampshire Route 115", "text": "New Hampshire Route 115\n\nNew Hampshire Route 115 (abbreviated NH 115) is a north–south state highway in Coos County in northern New Hampshire. The southern terminus of NH 115 is at U.S. Route 3 in Carroll north of Twin Mountain. The northern terminus is at the intersection with U.S. Route 2 in Jefferson. NH 115 is also known as Owl's Head Highway, named after an adjacent mountain prominence.\n\nNH 115 intersects New Hampshire Route 115A (Cherry Mountain Road) and New Hampshire Route 115B (Israel's River Road), where it crosses the Israel River. Several hiking trails can be accessed from NH 115 including the Cohos Trail and two trails up Cherry Mountain, each with designated parking areas. The Agnew State Forest is accessible to the south, via Cherry Mountain Road.\n\nThe speed limit varies from 40 miles per hour in Twin Mountain to over the remainder. Much of the road skirts the White Mountain National Forest or other wildlife conservation land.\n\nA spectacular viewpoint is located on NH 115 where it crosses the Jefferson town line, permitting views of distant mountains to the north and west, in Vermont as well as the Pilot Range and Pliny Range in New Hampshire. The Mountain View Grand Hotel is also visible, as is the Mount Washington Regional Airport, both in Whitefield. The airport is accessible via the Airport Road intersection below the viewpoint.\n\nBefore 1970, the northern terminus of NH 115 was moved from the intersection of Stag Hollow Road and US 2 to its present location at the Hollow Road/US 2 junction a quarter mile to the southeast.\n\nPart of NH 115 once followed what is now NH 115A to NH 115B as well as NH 115B to Stag Hollow Road. In the 1980s, the road was significantly simplified, widened and straightened, resulting in a new alignment to the south of NH 115B. The increased speeds of the improved route may have directly contributed to a significant number of tragic moose-vehicle collisions in recent years along that section.\n\nNew Hampshire Route 115A (abbreviated NH 115A) is a north–south state highway in Coos County, New Hampshire. The southern terminus of the road is at New Hampshire Route 115 south of Jefferson at Old Cherry Mountain Road. The northern terminus of NH 115A is at U.S. Route 2 in Jefferson at the Old Corner Store.\nNew Hampshire Route 115B (abbreviated NH 115B) is the designation for an east–west connector between New Hampshire Route 115 and New Hampshire Route 115A, along the Israel River in Jefferson. NH 115B was part of NH 115 prior to the southerly relocation and improvement of that route. \n\nNH 115B, also known as Israel's River Road, is approximately long and continues across NH 115 as Valley Road, once the main route from Jefferson to Randolph and beyond. An RV campsite is located along this road.\n"}
{"id": "2010753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010753", "title": "New Hampshire Route 116", "text": "New Hampshire Route 116\n\nNew Hampshire Route 116 (abbreviated NH 116) is a east–west highway in northern New Hampshire, United States. NH 116 is a scenic rural highway stretching from Haverhill, which lies along the Connecticut River, to Jefferson, in the White Mountains Region.\n\nThe eastern terminus of NH 116 is at U.S. Route 2 (the Presidential Highway) in Jefferson. The highway winds southwest through the towns of Whitefield and Bethlehem to Littleton, then turns south, concurrent with NH 18, to the village of Franconia. The road then runs southwest through Easton to NH 112, then turns west to reach its western terminus. Major intersections include Interstate 93 and U.S. Route 3. The western terminus is in North Haverhill at the junction with New Hampshire Route 10, which runs north and south along the Connecticut River.\n"}
{"id": "2010754", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010754", "title": "Berenice III of Egypt", "text": "Berenice III of Egypt\n\nBerenice III (Greek: Βερενίκη; 120–80 BC) was known as Cleopatra between 91 and 88 BC, and is sometimes called Cleopatra Berenice in modern scholarship. She was co-regent of Ptolemaic Egypt from 101-88 BC and again in 81 BC, before reigning as sole monarch of Egypt from 81 to 80 BC.\n\nShe had previously been queen consort of Egypt, or possibly queen regnant with her uncle/husband Ptolemy X Alexander I, from 101 to 88 BC.\n\nBerenice's father was Ptolemy IX Soter, who became king of Egypt in 116 BC, with his mother Cleopatra III as his co-regent and the dominant force in government. He was initially married to his sister Cleopatra IV, but his mother forced him to divorce her and marry another sister, Cleopatra Selene, probably in early 115 BC. It is not certain which of these wives was Berenice's mother. Cleopatra IV has been favoured by some modern scholarship. However, the historian Christopher Bennett notes that Berenice III's legitimacy was never questioned by ancient historians (unlike her brothers, Ptolemy XII and Ptolemy of Cyprus), and that Ptolemy IX's marriage to Cleopatra IV seems to have been considered illegitimate – making it more probable that Berenice III was the result of the legitimate marriage to Cleopatra Selene. In this case, she was probably born in late 115 or early 114 BC.\n\nPtolemy IX and Cleopatra III eventually came into conflict with one another. In 107 BC, Cleopatra whipped up the Alexandrian mob against Ptolemy IX, causing him to flee to Cyprus, abandoning Berenice and her brothers in Alexandria in the process. Cleopatra then installed Ptolemy IX's younger brother Ptolemy X Alexander on the throne, as a more pliant co-regent. Ptolemy X married Berenice's probable mother Cleopatra Selene and thus became step-father to the seven-year-old Berenice. They probably had a son together, the future Ptolemy XI, but around 103 BC Cleopatra III forced them to divorce so that Cleopatra Selene could be married to the Seleucid king Antiochus VIII.\n\nIn 101 BC, Ptolemy X had Cleopatra III murdered. Shortly after that, he married the thirteen-year-old Berenice and elevated her to the role of co-regent. The pair were joined together in the dynastic cult as the \"Theoi Philadelphoi\" (Sibling-loving Gods).\n\nIn 91 BC, a rebellion broke out in Upper Egypt. This rebellion was the latest in a series of native Egyptian uprisings in the region, following those of Hugronaphor (205-185 BC) and Harsiesi (131-130 BC). It is unknown what the name of the rebellion's leader was or whether he claimed the title of Pharaoh, as earlier rebel leaders had. The rebels gained control of Thebes and were supported by the Theban priests. Their forces are also attested in Latopolis and Pathyris. The rebellion also meant that the Ptolemies lost contact with the Triacontaschoenus region (Lower Nubia). Meroe took control of the region and retained it until the Roman period.\n\nAround May 88 BC, the Alexandrians and the army turned against Ptolemy X and expelled him. The Alexandrians then invited Ptolemy IX to return to Alexandria and retake the throne, which he did. Berenice accompanied her husband into exile. The pair gathered a naval force to recapture the kingdom, but were defeated in battle. Ptolemy X recruited a second force at Myra, invaded Cyprus, and was killed.\n\nBerenice returned to Egypt at some point after Ptolemy X's death and before 81 BC, but the exact date is not known.\n\nOn 5 August 81 BC, Ptolemy IX promoted his daughter Berenice III, who had previously been the wife and co-regent of Ptolemy X, to the status of co-regent. Some sources claim that Ptolemy IX had made Berenice III his co-regent at the start of his second reign in 88 BC, but all documentary evidence shows that he reigned alone until this point. Ptolemy died shortly thereafter, probably in December of the same year, leaving Berenice alone on the throne. At this point she was reincorporated into the dynastic cult as the \"Thea Philopator\" (Father-loving God), a clear reference to her inheritance of power from her father.\n\nAfter a few months of sole rule, Berenice summoned her younger half-brother and former step-son, Ptolemy XI, from Rome to serve as co-regent. According to Appian, this co-regency was established at the behest of the Roman dictator Sulla, who hoped that Ptolemy XI would serve as a pliant client king. Ptolemy XI was crowned king on 3 April 80 BC and murdered Berenice a few days later. This moved the Alexandrians to riot on 22 April 80 BC. He was cornered in the gymnasium and killed. The throne then passed to Ptolemy XII Auletes, who was an illegitimate son of Ptolemy IX and the half-brother of Berenice.\n\nBerenice is the subject of \"Berenice\", an opera by Handel.\n"}
{"id": "2010759", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010759", "title": "New Hampshire Route 117", "text": "New Hampshire Route 117\n\nNew Hampshire Route 117 (abbreviated NH 117) is an east–west highway in northern New Hampshire. NH 117 runs from Franconia to Lisbon in the White Mountains Region.\n\nThe eastern terminus of NH 117 is at New Hampshire Route 18 and New Hampshire Route 116 in Franconia, where NH 117 is named Sugar Hill Road. The western terminus of NH 117 is in Lisbon at U.S. Route 302 and New Hampshire Route 10.\n"}
{"id": "2010761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010761", "title": "Point Pinos Lighthouse", "text": "Point Pinos Lighthouse\n\nPoint Pinos Lighthouse was lit on February 1, 1855, to guide ships on the Pacific coast of California. It is the oldest continuously operating lighthouse on the West Coast of the United States and even the lens is original. Alcatraz Island Lighthouse preceded Point Pinos by eight months, but was replaced in 1909 by the expanding military prison. The Point Pinos Lighthouse is still an active United States Coast Guard aid to navigation. On-site museum exhibits and other lighthouse related functions are operated by the city of Pacific Grove, Monterey County, California. The lighthouse is surrounded by the Pacific Grove Municipal Golf Links.\n\nThe present light source, located above sea level, is a 1 kilowatt bulb, which produces a 50,000 candela beam visible under favorable conditions up to distant. Formerly, the light had a rigid schedule of being lit one hour prior to sunset, and extinguished one hour after sunrise. With automation completed in 1975, a small battery-operated back-up strobe light was installed outside the tower, and the main light was turned on permanently. The present signal has a simple 4-second cycle signature of on/3-seconds, and off/1-second. As a further navigational aid, a Class D radio beacon operated continuously which had a range of up to 20 miles (30 km). A foghorn was also located below the lighthouse closer to shore which could be turned on manually by the Coast Guard personnel when lack of visibility warranted its use. With the advent of global positioning satellite navigation in 1993, the radio beacon and foghorn were deactivated.\n\nThe light is a third-order Fresnel lens with lenses, prisms and mechanism manufactured in France in 1853. A larger, second-order light had been planned, but delay in shipment caused the present light, originally destined for the Fort Point Lighthouse in San Francisco, to be installed instead. The first light source was a whale oil lantern set inside the lens, whose tank the keeper had to climb the tower to fill several times a night. Whale oil was very expensive and was soon replaced by liquified lard oil which gave way to kerosene in 1880. At the turn of the century, an incandescent vapor lamp was used, followed by electric lights in 1919. From 1912 to 1940 a falling weight mechanism rotated a metal shutter around the light causing the beam to be cut off to seaward for 10 out of every 30 seconds. Thereafter a timed flasher provided the \"on/off\" characteristic.\n\nIn 1874 Lighthouse Avenue in Pacific Grove, named for the Point Pinos Lighthouse, was laid out to ferry supplies and construction materials from the port at Monterey to the lighthouse.\n\nThe point was a part of the Rancho Punta de Pinos Mexican land grant made to José María Armenta in 1833, and regranted to José Abrego in 1844. In 1850, after the Mexican–American War and the American acquisition of Alta California, Congress appropriated funds for the construction of lighthouses on the West Coast. In 1852, the Secretary of the Treasury ordered the building of seven beacons along the California coast, one of which was to be located at Point Pinos, the dangerous southern entrance to the Monterey Bay. The government purchased of the Rancho Punta de los Pinos for this purpose, with an additional being purchased later on. Construction began in 1853, but difficulties with the delivery of the lenses and prisms from France delayed the opening of the lighthouse until 1855.\n\nThe first lightkeeper was Charles Layton, appointed to the post at $1,000 per year. He was killed in 1855 while serving as a member of the sheriff's posse chasing the notorious outlaw, Anastacio Garcia. He was succeeded by his widow, Charlotte, who remained head lightkeeper until 1860, when she married her assistant lightkeeper, George Harris. Robert Louis Stevenson wrote of visiting lightkeeper Allen Luce in 1879 after a long walk through the woods from Monterey, praising Luce's hospitality, piano playing, ship models and oil paintings. He wrote about the light in his book \"From Scotland to Silverado\".\n\nThe most famous lightkeeper was Mrs. Emily Fish, who served from 1893 to 1914. She was called the \"Socialite Keeper\" due to her love of entertaining guests at the lighthouse.\n\nPoint Pinos Lighthouse is on the National Register of Historic Places. It is open for tours Thursday through Monday, 1-4pm.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2010765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010765", "title": "New Hampshire Route 118", "text": "New Hampshire Route 118\n\nNew Hampshire Route 118 (abbreviated NH 118) is a secondary north–south highway in Grafton County, New Hampshire. NH 118 stretches from Woodstock in the White Mountains Region south to Canaan in the Upper Valley region.\n\nThe northern terminus of NH 118 is at New Hampshire Route 112 (the Lost River Road) in Woodstock. The road runs southward through the towns of Warren, Wentworth, Rumney, and Dorchester. The southern terminus of NH 118 is at U.S. Route 4 in Canaan. From Canaan to Wentworth, the highway is named Dorchester Road. The section from Warren to the Lost River is known as the Sawyer Highway.\n\n"}
{"id": "2010766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010766", "title": "New Hampshire Route 119", "text": "New Hampshire Route 119\n\nNew Hampshire Route 119 (NH 119) is a state highway in the U.S. state of New Hampshire. The highway begins in Hinsdale at the Connecticut River, across which the highway continues into Brattleboro, Vermont, as Vermont Route 119 (VT 119) for to its terminus at U.S. Route 5 (US 5) and VT 142. NH 119 heads east to the Massachusetts state line in New Ipswich, where the highway continues as Massachusetts Route 119. The state highway is the main east–west highway of southern Cheshire County, where it connects the towns of Hinsdale, Winchester, Richmond, Fitzwilliam, and Rindge.\n\nNH 119 begins at the Vermont state line at the west bank of the Connecticut River. The highway continues as VT 119 (Bridge Street) into downtown Brattleboro, where the highway has a grade crossing of the New England Central Railroad before its terminal intersection, from which US 5 heads west on Canal Street and north on Main Street, and VT 142 heads south as Vernon Street. NH 119 crosses the main channel of the Connecticut River on a truss bridge, then heads southeast along an unnamed island and crosses another channel to reach the east bank of the river. The highway, which is named Brattleboro Road, follows the east bank of the river southeast along the flank of Wantastiquet Mountain through the town of Hinsdale. West of the center of town, NH 119 veers east away from the Connecticut River and becomes the town's Main Street. While passing through downtown, the highway has a concurrency with NH 63, which heads south as Northfield Road and north as Chesterfield Road.\n\nNH 119 parallels the Ashuelot River east from the town center along Canal Street and becomes Ashuelot Main Street on entering the town of Winchester. East of the village of Ashuelot, which contains a namesake covered bridge, the highway continues as Hinsdale Road to the town center of Winchester. There, the highway crosses the river and has a four-leg intersection with NH 10 (Manning Hill Road) and NH 78 (Warwick Road). NH 119 and NH 10 head north across Mirey Brook as Main Street to the center of town, where NH 10 continues straight on Keene Road and NH 119 turns east onto Richmond Street. The highway crosses several hills and ridges in the town of Richmond, in the center of which the highway intersects NH 32 (Athol Road/Old Homestead Highway). The highway is named Winchester Road and Fitzwilliam Road west and east of the town center, respectively.\n\nNH 119 enters the town of Fitzwilliam, where the highway passes to the south of Rhododendron State Park, which surrounds Little Monadnock Mountain. The highway has a curvaceous path through the town that includes two right-angle turns west of the town center, where the highway intersects NH 12. NH 119 continues east into the town of Rindge. The route passes to the south of Franklin Pierce University before having a junction with US 202. NH 119 continues southeast, passing the town center of Rindge to the northeast and the Wapack Wilderness, the site of several monadnocks in the Wapack Range, including Pratt Mountain. The state highway cuts across the extreme southwest corner of the town of New Ipswich in Hillsborough County before reaching its eastern terminus at the Massachusetts state line. The highway continues southeast into the town of Ashburnham as Massachusetts Route 119 (Rindge State Road).\n"}
{"id": "2010773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010773", "title": "Walt Disney Creative Entertainment", "text": "Walt Disney Creative Entertainment\n\nWalt Disney Creative Entertainment is the theatrical live entertainment production division of Walt Disney Imagineering, the design and development arm of Disney Parks, Experiences and Products, a segment and direct subsidiary of The Walt Disney Company.\n\nFormerly founded as Walt Disney Entertainment as a wing of the Walt Disney Company, it produced all shows and parades for Disney worldwide, including everything from the Disney-created Super Bowl Half-time shows to theme parks. The division was altered on January 31, 2001, at the retirement of Executive Vice President, Ron Logan, who was the head of the division.\n\nDisney Creative Entertainment was founded in 2000 with the arrival of Executive Vice President Anne Hamburger.\n\nSome of the company's most notable works since being officially formed in 2000 include:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2010781", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010781", "title": "Subcontrabass saxophone", "text": "Subcontrabass saxophone\n\nThe subcontrabass saxophone is a type of saxophone that Adolphe Sax patented and planned to build but never constructed. Sax called this imagined instrument \"saxophone bourdon\" (named after a low pitch stop found on many a pipe organ). It is a transposing instrument pitched in B, one octave below the bass saxophone, two octaves below the tenor saxophone, and three octaves and a major second below its written pitch.\n\nUntil 1999, no genuine, playable subcontrabass saxophones were made, though at least two gigantic saxophones were built. Although the smaller of the two (constructed in the mid-1960s) was able to produce musical tones, with assistants opening and closing its pads due to the instrument's lack of keywork, witnesses stated that it was incapable of playing even a simple scale.\n\nThe B subcontrabass tubax, which was developed in 1999 by instrument manufacturer Benedikt Eppelsheim of Munich, Germany, is described by Eppelsheim as a \"subcontrabass saxophone\". This instrument is available in both C and B, with the B model providing the same pitch range as the \"saxophone bourdon\" would have. A contrabass-range tubax in E is also available.\n\nThe question of whether or not the tubax is truly a saxophone is debatable: it has the same fingering as a contrabass saxophone, but its bore, though conical, is narrower (relative to its length) than that of a regular saxophone. This makes for a more compact instrument with a \"reedier\" and \"fatter\" timbre. While some argue that the tubax is akin to the double-reed sarrusophone, the tubax's bore is much larger than that of the corresponding size of sarrusophone. Since several conical single-reed instruments with bores narrower than the saxophone are known (Octavin, Tarogato, Heckelclarina), analogies to a double-reed instruments can only relate to range and overall dimensions. Some authorities regard the tubax as a separate family of instruments rather than as a type of saxophone.\n\nA Brazilian company, J'Elle Stainer, produced a working compact subcontrabass in 2010, which was shown at Expomusic 2010.\n\nIn September 2012, instrument manufacturer Benedikt Eppelsheim of Munich, Germany completed building the first full-size subcontrabass saxophone. This instrument stands tall.\n\nIn July 2013, J'Elle Stainer of Brazil completed building a full-size subcontrabass saxophone.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2010782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010782", "title": "Maryland Route 10", "text": "Maryland Route 10\n\nMaryland Route 10 (MD 10) is a state highway in the U.S. state of Maryland. Known as the Arundel Expressway, the highway runs from MD 2 in Pasadena north to Interstate 695 (I-695) near Glen Burnie. MD 10 is a four- to six-lane freeway that serves as a bypass of MD 2 through Pasadena and Glen Burnie in northeastern Anne Arundel County. The Arundel Expressway was planned as a Baltimore–Annapolis freeway to provide relief to MD 2 between the cities as early as the 1950s. However, the portion of MD 10 south of Pasadena was removed from state plans when the I-97 corridor was chosen for the intercity freeway in the 1970s. MD 10 was constructed from I-695 to MD 710 in the early 1970s and continued south to MD 648 in the late 1970s. The freeway was extended south to MD 100 and completed to MD 2 in the late 1980s and early 1990s, respectively.\n\nMD 10 begins at an intersection with MD 2 (Governor Ritchie Highway) in Pasadena. The highway heads north as a four-lane freeway to a partial interchange with MD 100 (Paul T. Pitcher Memorial Highway). There is no access from northbound MD 10 to eastbound MD 100 or from westbound MD 100 to southbound MD 10. MD 10 and MD 100 briefly run concurrently northwest as an eight-lane freeway and diverge at another partial interchange; in both carriageways, traffic must move over two lanes to remain on the same route. Just north of the MD 100 split, MD 10 has a half-diamond interchange with MD 177 (Mountain Road). That interchange has ramps from southbound MD 10 to MD 177 and from MD 177 to northbound MD 10. Traffic from eastbound MD 100 to northbound MD 10 and from southbound MD 10 to westbound MD 100 uses MD 177 and MD 2 as intermediaries.\n\nMD 10 continues north from MD 177 through the east side of Glen Burnie as a six-lane freeway. The highway crosses over Marley Creek and has a partial cloverleaf interchange with MD 648 (Baltimore–Annapolis Boulevard). MD 10 parallels MD 270 (Furnace Branch Road) north then meets the latter highway at a partial cloverleaf interchange. The highway crosses Furnace Branch and has a partial cloverleaf interchange with MD 710 (Ordnance Road), where northbound MD 10 becomes two lanes wide. MD 10 reaches its northern terminus at a trumpet interchange with I-695 (Baltimore Beltway). The sweeping ramp from MD 10 to westbound I-695 merges into a collector-distributor lane that allows access from MD 10 to northbound MD 2 in Brooklyn Park.\n\nMD 10 is a part of the main National Highway System for its entire length.\n\nThe Arundel Expressway was proposed as early as 1956 as a freeway connecting Baltimore and Annapolis to relieve congestion on MD 2. By 1966, the highway was planned to begin at MD 173 at the city limits of Baltimore, intersect a planned cross-Patapsco section of the Baltimore Beltway, follow its current path to Pasadena, then continue paralleling MD 2 south to near U.S. Route 50 (US 50) and US 301. The portion of the Arundel Expressway inside the Beltway was removed from plans in 1967, with the Beltway instead serving to connect the expressway with highways into Baltimore. The portion of the freeway south of Pasadena was planned to have intermediate interchanges at MD 648 in Severna Park and Jones Station Road (now College Parkway) in Arnold, and a toll plaza just south of the MD 100 interchange. The portion of the Arundel Expressway south of MD 100 was removed from state plans by 1975. Instead of a Baltimore–Annapolis freeway following the MD 2 corridor, in June 1979 the Maryland State Highway Administration announced it was constructing the freeway along the MD 3 and MD 178 corridors.\n\nThe first section of modern MD 10 to open was the portion of freeway shared with MD 100, which opened in November 1970 from MD 2 to its eastern terminus. Work began on the Arundel Expressway proper in 1970 when the interchange between the expressway and the Baltimore Beltway was started in 1970. MD 710 was relocated over much of its length to make way for the construction of the freeways in 1972. The Arundel Expressway opened from the Beltway to MD 710 in December 1972 and was marked as MD 10 by 1974. Construction on the extension south to MD 648 was underway by 1975. MD 10 opened south to MD 270 in October 1977 and to MD 648 in March 1978. The freeway was proposed to continue south to MD 100, but that freeway extension was removed from short-term plans by 1981.\n\nConstruction began in 1987 to extend MD 10, which was dubbed the \"Road to Nowhere,\" from MD 648 to a more logical southern terminus. The freeway opened from MD 648 to MD 100 in October 1988. The final segment of MD 10, from MD 100 to MD 2, opened in March 1991. The Arundel Expressway was planned to carry 75,000 as a complete Baltimore–Annapolis freeway. However, , only 51,621 vehicles used the highway daily on its most traveled portion between MD 270 and MD 710. MD 10 functions as a bypass of MD 2 north of Pasadena, but has not fulfilled its original purpose to relieve traffic congestion on MD 2 south to Annapolis. By the time of MD 10's completion in 1991, MD 2 was proposed to be expanded to six lanes south of MD 10. , MD 2 has yet to be widened south of Pasadena.\n\nAll exits are unnumbered.\n\n"}
{"id": "2010783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010783", "title": "Seddon Atkinson", "text": "Seddon Atkinson\n\nSeddon Atkinson Vehicles Limited, a manufacturer of large goods vehicles based in Oldham, Greater Manchester, England, was formed after the acquisition in 1970 of Atkinson Vehicles Limited of Preston by Seddon Diesel Vehicles Limited of Oldham. In 1974, the firm was acquired by International Harvester, which sold it in March 1984 to the Spanish group Enasa which made it a subsidiary of Pegaso. In 1990, it became part of Iveco which used the brand for various types of specialised vehicles in the United Kingdom. The range of models produced included \"EuroMover\", \"Pacer\" and \"Strato\", which are aimed at refuse collection, recycling and construction operators.\nIveco announced its decision to manufacture Seddon Atkinsons in Spain in 2005, and shortly afterwards the brand name was incorporated into the mainstream Iveco catalogue. The Oldham manufacturing facilities were shut down in 2004, and the offices were closed at the end of 2006.\n\nRecent Seddon Atkinson vehicles were readily identifiable from other Iveco products because of the company's former Atkinson logo, a large letter 'A' within a circle, usually in chrome (or chrome-effect) on the radiator grille. The circular Atkinson logo dated from 1937, supplemented by the 'Knight Of The Road' badge between the early 1950s and late 1970.\n\nOriginally a firm of steam-wagon repairers and manufacturers, founded in 1907 in Preston, Lancashire, Atkinson & Co. evolved into Seddon Atkinson Vehicles Ltd through a succession of mergers.\n\nAtkinson & Co. was founded in the Frenchwood district of Preston, the cotton town and administrative capital of Lancashire, by two of five brothers, Edward Atkinson (1880–1932) and Henry Birch Atkinson (1882–1921) with assistance from their brother-in-law George Hunt (1870–1950). The real and effective beginning of the company was in 1907, when the partners decided to capitalise on the need for local engineers to make temporary or permanent repairs to the increasing number of 'pullcars' and private motor vehicles on the road. By 1912, the organisation had moved to premises in Kendal Street and the number of employees had grown to twenty. In the same year a second, smaller repair centre was opened in Freemason's Row, Liverpool, to cater for the enormous volume of steam traffic using the docks. Very soon the company made something of a name for itself in the north of England as quality repairers, and the growing number of operators brought new business from far and wide.\n\nWith the outbreak of World War I in 1914, demand for internal road transport grew considerably, the nation finding itself desperately throttled by the inadequacy of the railways to offer a complete transport network. Some method of local delivery and collection was needed to supplement the services of the railway companies, and with most of the existing steam wagon manufacturers turning their resources over to munitions production, demand increased further. The Atkinsons, shrewd observers at any time, decided to experiment by making a wagon of their own design, and in 1916, the first Atkinson six-ton four-wheel steam wagon was produced in Kendal Street and became an instant success. The market enjoyed a short boom period following the Armistice and the Atkinsons, realising the potential, purchased a five-acre site of land near their homes in Frenchwood, on which they intended to erect a new and enlarged factory, solely designed for the production of steam wagons. Together with the field they also bought the 17th century Frenchwood House, with the intention of using it partly as their offices and partly as their personal quarters. By 1918 the Atkinsons had built up a competent team of engineers and salesmen as well as an enthusiastic and loyal labour force, and were producing wagons competitive in both price and performance. Henry Atkinson died suddenly in 1921 and consequently the company fell into the hands of his brother Edward. At this time, new ideas and designs were constantly being tried out while production rose to a peak of some three wagons per week, and the total labour force rose to well over a hundred and fifty.\n\nEdward Atkinson had a glorified view of steam and did not acknowledge the warnings when sales began to slow down in the mid-1920s. Leyland Motors sold their steam remnants to Atkinson in 1926, followed by Mann in 1929. There seems to have been various family rivalries at the time and the firm was undoubtedly in difficulties when Edward Atkinson decided to seek help from mine engineers and Pagefield lorry makers, Walker Brothers of Wigan. Under a new arrangement, Walkers manufactured Uniflow engines for Atkinsons, but by this time very few orders were forthcoming. Edward Atkinson had cancer and was unable to pay any dividends on the preference shares and finally abandoned wagon production in 1929 after a grand total of about 545 Atkinsons had been built. The final years were made possible by a cancellation fee from Manchester Co-op Society, which had ordered a hundred wagons. The Frenchwood and Freemason's Row factories closed with the end of the steamers, though the Kendal Street factory remained for repairing and servicing existing wagons. Edward Atkinson died in 1932 and a year later the firm he co-founded was acquired by London garage owner W. G. Allen, whose father had started Nightingale Garage. Allen was chairman of Atkinson Lorries (1933) Ltd and H. B. Fielding was managing director. Allen had effectively run the firm since 1931, and remained in charge until his death in 1949.\n\nThe formula established in the 1933 reorganisation served the company well and became the basis of most production at Walton-le-Dale (the new factory opened in 1948) thereafter. The production philosophy was similar to that of Seddon, ERF, Rutland (Motor Traction) and other competitors aiming for value-for-money lorry sales, viz: the assembly of tried and tested proprietary components. A bought-in chassis frame to Atkinson design was generally powered by a Gardner engine, driving through a David Brown Ltd. gearbox to Kirkstall Forge Engineering rear axles. During World War II, Gardner engines were reserved for military applications, excepting the Guy Arab bus; Atkinson lorries sanctioned by the Ministry of Production for sale to civilian hauliers for the duration were fitted with the AEC '7.7 litre' unit (which actually displaced 7.58 litres). Nationalisation of the road haulage industry in 1948 affected Atkinson as many of their customers were private sector general hauliers who were nationalised, but British Road Services bought rigid-eight Atkinson Lorries alongside similar products made by state-owned Bristol Commercial Vehicles.\n\nDuring the 1950s hauliers began to ask for more powerful engines – at the time, Gardner only offered engines for road-vehicle applications with a maximum output of 120 bhp. In response, in the early 1950s Atkinson trial-fitted a Daimler 650 cubic inch engine rated at 150 bhp in a rigid-eight (8-wheel, non-articulated) chassis. Later, Rolls-Royce and Cummins engines were offered alongside Gardner units; Gardner responded with a 150 bhp unit in 1957, and 180 and 240 bhp units in 1966 and 1970, respectively.\n\nIn 1958, following a change in Construction & Use Regulations, Atkinson offered a glass-fibre clad cab (which became known as the Mk I cab) as a replacement for the previous coachbuilt hardwood and metal cab on standard production models; it featured twin fixed wrap-around windscreens rather than the traditional flat opening glasses but retained the traditional exposed Withnell-tube type radiator. The initial offering was a single headlight model, followed in 1963 by the 'Deluxe' twin headlight model which quickly became an Atkinson characteristic. As orders for the twin headlight model increased, the single headlight version was dropped as an option. From the 1950s many Atkinsons had carried the 'Knight of the Road' trademark device on the upper offside corner of the radiator grille, and in the 1960s models were sold under the trade names Silver Knight (tractor unit), Gold Knight (rigid tipper or tanker) and Black Knight (rigid freight chassis), as well as the 'Weightmaster' range of lightweight chassis.\n\nA small number of left-hand-drive Atkinsons were built for export to mainland Europe in the late 1960s, with pressed-steel cabs bought from Krupp after that company had ceased commercial vehicle production. Most were sold eventually in the U.K., via Comberhill Commercials of Wakefield. A different design of glass-fibre cab, launched in prototype form at the 1966 Commercial Motor Show, and named View-Line, had a deep single-piece main windscreen with wrap-around quarter glasses. The prototype had three separate chrome radiator grilles, but lacked the character of the exposed radiator models. Thereafter, although the Krupp Cabs, introduced in 1969, and View-Line cabs had concealed radiators, they carried a fibreglass replica of the Atkinson radiator outline with the 'Big A' device centred upon it. Both were available until 1970 but ceased prior to both the launch of the new model range in October 1970, and the merger with Seddon.\n\nNotable Atkinsons of the era were a fleet of 6x6 gritters built in 1962–73 on the orders of various U.K. highway authorities for use on the motorway network. These had Cummins NH engines installed, rather than the more popular Gardner power units, due ostensibly to the use of steel in their construction, which didn't suffer salt corrosion to the same degree as the alloy-constructed Gardners. Early examples had AEC engines.\n\nFrom 1968 the standard Mk I glass-fibre clad cab was revised, with stronger ash framing, larger dimensions and wider, deeper windscreens. The traditional Withnell-tubed, exposed radiator was replaced with the more imposing concealed version, which was fitted behind a glass-fibre shrouded metal grille - again carrying the Knight's Head, circular A logo and additional adornments in the form of engine manufacturer plates.\nThis cab featured on the final Atkinson haulage models, announced at the Commercial Motor Show at Earls Court in October 1970, the naming of which originated from an idea by Frank Whalley, the company publicity officer at the time. The most famous of the range were two-axle tractor units carrying the name 'Borderer'. Three-axle rear-steer tractor units carried the name 'Leader', and were designed to meet eagerly anticipated increases in permitted gross weights (although no increases were actually forthcoming until May 1983). Three-axle haulage chassis carried the name 'Searcher'. Four-axle chassis carried the name 'Defender'. Three-axle heavy haulage tractor units carried the name 'Venturer'. The two-axle haulage chassis were never given an official name, but were originally planned to carry the name 'Raider'; however factory grille plates were never produced for this model, and company literature never referred to the proposed name.\n\nIt was at this time that the famous 'Knight of the Road' badging was dropped. When the exhibits were being prepared for the Commercial Motor Show at Earls Court in October 1970, they were fitted with four separate badges on the radiator grille: the 'Big A', the Knight's head, the new model name and the engine manufacturer's badge. The late Frank Whalley recounted that, when Managing Director Peter M Yates saw them, he said that they looked \"like fairground lorries\" and directed Frank to terminate the use of the Knight badge forthwith. This was also consistent with ending the use of the 'Knight' names for the model range.\n\nThere is one vehicle which assumed a name of its very own after it was modified by one of its owners - John Killingbeck. The vehicle in question is MVD432L, which was originally a T3446C 'Borderer' and survives in preservation. After acquisition by Killingbeck, it was stretched into a 6x2 'Chinese Six' tractor and fitted with an uprated Gardner 6LXB engine to enable it to meet the legal requirement for 6 bhp/ton after 1973, whereupon the well-known Atkinson enthusiast and archivist, Michael Deuchars, named it 'Buccaneer'. A replica grille plate was made in a similar fashion to those on factory vehicles and was saved by an enthusiast prior to the closure of the company.\n\nIn 1948 Bristol Commercial Vehicles had been nationalised as part of the Tilling Group. Thanks to a Conservative-sponsored amendment to the Transport Act 1947 (designed to make sure British Railways' locomotive and rolling stock works did not compete with the private-sector) Bristol found itself legally unable to accept orders for its bus chassis outside fleets wholly owned by the British Transport Commission, a situation which lasted until 1965.\n\nOne of the most loyal Bristol customers up to 1948 had been the North Western Road Car Company of Stockport, who had until 1941 been jointly owned by Tilling and British Electric Traction (BET), after 1941 it was transferred to BET control. After the North Western's last Bristols were delivered in 1950, the company took Leyland Titans and Royal Tigers for a year or so, but the heavy weight, high fuel consumption, poor braking performance and high purchase cost of the Royal Tiger led North Western's management to seek an equivalent to the nationalised sector's Bristol LS bus, with lightweight construction and a Gardner engine horizontally oriented and mounted underfloor. Not impressed by the heavyweight Gardner-engined Guy Arab and Daimler Freeline they approached Atkinson asking for a bus to their specification. This was called the Atkinson Alpha, the first entering service in August 1951. The Alpha range featured a horizontal Gardner engine (four, five and six-cylinder versions were offered), a choice of constant mesh and synchromesh gearboxes from David Brown, and either a lightweight or medium-weight frame. As events turned out, after the initial two batches for North Western in 1953/54 – the first of which were rare rear-entrance underfloor-engined buses – the senior management of the BET group removed Atkinson, Guy and Daimler from their list of preferred suppliers. Around the same time, Leyland dropped the purchase price of the Tiger Cub. North Western then took Tiger Cubs and AEC Reliances for their single-deck needs for the rest of the 1950s.\n\nAtkinson's management then decided that although Daimler and Guy were publicly offering Gardner-engined double-deckers, and some influential (mainly Scottish) customers could purchase AEC Regents with that make of engine, they would also enter this market. Thus at the 1954 Earls' Court Commercial Motor Show two Atkinson double-deck buses were exhibited: one was a chassis, the other carried a 60-seat centre-entrance double-deck body by Northern Counties to the order of the Stalybridge, Hyde, Mossley and Dukinfield Joint Transport (and Electricity) Board. This bus (UMA370) is preserved by the Museum of Transport, Greater Manchester and is also of interest as the first double-deck bus with an electrically controlled direct-acting epicyclic gearbox, this Self-Changing Gears (SCG) unit was fitted by Atkinson after delivery but before entry into service as the SHMD board's drivers (who were used to pre-selective transmissions on the fleets' standard Daimlers) did not want to use the originally installed David Brown constant-mesh unit. The un-bodied exhibition chassis, which featured semi-automatic transmission, was dismantled around the same time. No further Atkinson double-deck bus chassis were built.\n\nIt is unclear whether Atkinson's early lead in two-pedal bus transmissions has anything to do with the minority shareholding (around 15%) that Leyland Motors held in Atkinson Lorries (1933) Ltd until the firm was taken over by Seddon. Leyland were, by 1954, part owners of SCG but the 1954 PDR1 prototype had the direct air-operated Pneumocyclic transmission at the time. Neither Guy nor Daimler had a two-pedal transmission and AEC had only just exhibited theirs on the prototype AEC Routemaster.\n\nAs well as an underfloor engined single-deck and a front-engined double-deck, Atkinson also produced a front-engined single-deck bus chassis, this being to a similar layout to the Bedford SB but of more durable construction. It sold well to Atkinson export markets, mainly in the Sterling zone, an example survives as a mobile home in New Zealand. In the United Kingdom sales of this Atkinson bus amounted to three: one batch of two for a municipal operator and a further frustrated export chassis.\n\nNorman Morton, the General Manager of Sunderland Corporation Transport from 1953–68, looked for efficiency-savings wherever they could be found. He had a route with a peak vehicle requirement of two, and a peak load of just over 40 which was being run by a pair of 32-seat 1950 Guy Arab III half-cab single deckers due for overhaul. Initially he approached Guy with the replacement specification, but they said they were not prepared to build a mere two buses to his detailed requirements, so he went to Atkinson. Sunderland 30-1 (GGR230-1) were the result, bodied in 1958 by Charles H Roe to FB41F layout and 8 ft wide by 30 ft long box-dimensions; they had constant-mesh gearboxes and four-cylinder 80 bhp Gardner 4LW engines. The route was a 'limited-stop' taking workmen from their homes to the docks and back again. The route was not hilly and the stops were few. The bodywork was utilitarian and the livery was mainly drab mid-green with cream window surrounds. The 41 seats were well-shaped and well padded and the wide double-stream entrance-exit just aft of the front wheels was covered by four-leaf double jack-knife doors.\n\nShortly afterwards a frustrated export chassis, to a shorter wheelbase and 27 ft 6in overall length, was bodied by Plaxton to its then-new Highway outline at the orders of a Wakefield dealer, Comberhill Motors who registered it as NHL127 and sold it to Simpson of Rosehearty. \n\nAfter North Western were discouraged by the British Electric Traction group from purchasing Atkinson Alphas the company sought sales in the independent market, producing lightweight bus and coach demonstrators. A large independent which did buy some was Lancashire United Transport and SHMD bought some Alphas to go with their double-decker. The most successful fruit of Atkinson's bus-sales effort was with Venture Transport (Newcastle) Limited, of Consett, County Durham. Between 1946 and 1948 Venture had replaced the majority of its pre-war fleet with 35-seat Willowbrook-bodied Daimler CVD6's. No further buses were bought by Venture over the next half decade. In 1954 Atkinson lent Venture TTC882 a HV Burlingham bodied 44-seat bus which met with the approval of Venture's management and orders ensued for twenty-four vehicles delivered in three batches from 1955–7 with differently styled B45F or DP41F Willowbrook bodies. Over the rest of the 1950s small numbers of Alphas were sold to other independent operators.\n\nThe Alpha continued to be listed without sales into the 1960s but a final home market order came from Sunderland Corporation in 1962 for 1963/64 delivery. The three buses concerned looked like buses from a different age to previous Atkinsons as they carried Marshall bodies of 33 ft length and 8 ft 2 ½ in width to the then-new BET-group outline, with double curvature front and rear screens and peaked roof-domes at either end. They were finished in a mainly cream version of the Sunderland livery and were to B45D layout. Like Doncaster Corporation's slightly later Leyland Royal Tiger Cubs they were purposely designed for the 'intermediate' length and had a wheelbase of 18 ft. They were numbered 46-48 and registered WBR246-8. The first initially was fitted with a constant mesh gearbox, but was swiftly refitted with a direct-air operated Self-Changing Gears unit, featuring a Leyland style 'pedestal' gear change with which the other two were built. Sunderland 48 was the last Atkinson PSV constructed and is preserved, as is no.46. Ironically, the last Seddon PSV design, the Pennine 7, had much more in common with the Alpha than with most previous Seddon bus chassis. However, these three buses had the unusual combination of vacuum-assisted brakes and air-operated Self-Changing Gears gearbox.\n\nThis was very simple in style, and a system that in its basics, lasted from 1933 to 1975 consisting of a number for weight (initially estimated payload, but after 1964 maximum gross vehicle or gross-train weight) then a second number for wheels and then the number of cylinders, assuming initially vertically mounted Gardner LW series engines.\n\nThus an Atkinson 646 would have been a 6-ton payload 4x2 wagon with four wheels and a Gardner 6LW engine.\n\nA 1066A would have had a ten-ton payload, to 6x4 layout and an AEC (seven-seven) powerplant.\n\nDuring the 1950s as well as the already-existing suffix for engine-type, prefixes H, M and L (for heavy, medium and light duty frames) were adopted, the Alpha had a second prefix P (for passenger) Thus an early Alpha could carry the code:\n\nPL745H (H used for horizontal Gardner engines)\n\nBy the mid-1950s Alphas had pre-prefixes depending on whether they had overdrive constant-mesh (C, for coach) or direct-drive synchromesh gearboxes (B, for bus) hence BPL745H for the first 18 Venture examples, the last six being CPL745H.\n\nThe double-decker had the unique frame-code D. Whether that stood for double-deck or dropped frame is not clear, but the PD746 designation given to the two built showed a seven-ton payload, four wheels and a Gardner 6LW. Assuming somebody would have wanted a pantechnicon with a dropped-frame at that time from Walton-le-Dale, it may have been a D746.\n\nRelaxation of legally allowed length and widths resulted in further suffix letters: The first two Sunderland buses were L644LWs (lightweight frame, six tons, four wheels, 4LW engines, long wheelbases, wide-track). The New Zealand survivor is given as an L644XLW (extra-long, around 33 ft long).\n\nThe final three Alphas were coded PM746HL, viz: passenger, medium-weight frame, six-tonne payload, four wheels, Gardner 6HLW engine, long wheelbase.\n\nLater Atkinson codes included T3246RR for a 32-ton GCW Borderer with a Rolls-Royce Eagle engine. A Rolls-Royce-engined Borderer was T3446RR220 or T3446RR280\n\nThe work with the Alpha was also taken into Atki's mainstream wagon business, there were Atkinson customers, particularly breweries, who ordered underfloor engined Atki wagons, enabling a three-seat cab. The platform body had a trap in it so the (Gardner 4HLW) engine could be seen to. Sentinel, Albion, Guy and Dennis had also done the same but not as reliably because they did not use a Gardner.\nAtkinson merged with Seddons of Oldham late in 1970. The last \"true\" Atkinson, a Defender 8-wheel rigid bearing chassis number FC29941, was built at Atkinson's Walton-le-Dale works in 1975. It went to G & B McCready of Newcastle-under-Lyme and carried the registration KVT 604 P. Today it remains with them.\n\nAlongside Seddon's facility at Oldham, the Atkinson works assembled the Seddon Atkinson 400 Series and also the first batch of the new 401 model, before closing at the end of 1981. Oldham remained operational until late 2004, when production was moved to Spain.\n\nSeddon Diesel Vehicles were, like Atkinson Lorries, ERF and Motor Traction (Rutland), a commercial vehicle producer who bought-in and assembled proprietary components. Robert and Herbert Seddon were sons of a Salford butcher who in 1919 subsequent to World War I demobilisation bought a Commer with charabanc and van bodies, using it during the week for goods transport and at weekends to run excursions from Salford. Initially a further partner was a family-friend, a dairyman by the name of Foster, so the business was initially a partnership. Foster & Seddon also reconditioned vehicles and ran a bus service from Swinton (Lancs.) to Salford, which was subsequently sold to Salford Corporation, and held an agency for Morris Motors vehicles. In 1937 Robert Seddon spotted a gap in the commercial vehicle market for low-tare diesel-engined lorries and commenced to build his own vehicle out of proprietary units, much of the drawing work being done on his own kitchen table.\n\nThis was a 6-ton gvw forward-control lorry chassis with a 6-cylinder Perkins indirect-injection diesel engine. It was first shown at the Scottish Motor show at Kelvin Hall, Glasgow in 1938. Since it weighed under unladen, it was allowed to travel at unlike most other trucks with a comparable payload. Like Maudslay and ERF, Seddon Motors Ltd were allowed to continue producing commercial vehicle chassis for sale during World War II when many more-established makers such as Leyland Motors, the Associated Equipment Company and direct-competitor Albion Motors had all of their productive capacity diverted to the war effort.\n\nIn 1948 Seddon Motors Ltd moved to the Woodstock Works, a former shadow factory in Oldham and were able to expand production from one or two a week to more than ten. At this point they introduced their first passenger chassis the Mark IV. The 26 ft mark IV and 27 ft 6in mark VI were sales successes at home and overseas. Coachbuilders for these chassis included Plaxton and a number of smaller concerns, Seddon also built their own coachwork for these models, mainly for export. Subsequently, Seddon also produced (amongst a bewildering range for which Roman numbers were adopted when the firm became Seddon Diesel Vehicles Ltd in 1950) the Mark 7P. This was a short-wheelbase version of the established theme with four-cylinder Perkins engine and up to 28 seats available within a 21 ft overall length. At the 1952 Earls Court Commercial Motor Show marks 10 and 11 featured vertical Perkins (P6 80 bhp or R6 107 bhp) engines mounted underfloor (when competing underfloor-engined buses used horizontally oriented engines). Although Bedford were to have success with such a layout between 1970 and 1987 the marks 10 and 11 sold poorly, with Seddon, Charles H Roe, Duple and Plaxton bodies on the few known examples. The mid 1950s mark 16 was a 21 ft long bus with a Perkins P4 on the front overhang and the mark 17 was a six-cylinder-engined chassis to similar layout. The mark 18 of the late 1950s, mainly sold to Australia and New Zealand, with local coachwork. It had a vertically mounted Perkins P6 80 bhp engine on the rear overhang. There was also one mark 20 with a Henry Meadows 550 cubic inch horizontal rear-engine exported to Greece and the mark 25P a normal control 18-seat personnel-carrier based on the mark 25 integral parcel van. The bodybuilding business, not only on Seddon and other manufacturer's buses but building lorry cabs and parcel vans for customers such as Manchester Corporation (who ran a parcel delivery service) was registered in its own right as Pennine Coachcraft Ltd (wholly owned by Seddon) in 1960.\n\nFrom 1966 (with mark numbers climbing into the high twenties), Seddon decided to simplify its nomenclature, wagons were henceforth to be identified as (for example) 16–4 with the first number being the gross vehicle weight and the second the number of wheels. Bus chassis were to be known as Seddon Pennine Mark (x). The first buses using this system produced were for Bermuda and were Seddon Pennine Mark 3, they are believed to be similar to a short-wheelbase Pennine Mark 4 but with Perkins P6 or 6-304 engines or an integral development of the Mark 17 model of similar layout.\n\nFrom the middle 1950s, Seddon had been almost absent on the home market for bus & coach concerns. A sole mark 19 using many AEC Reliance components in a Seddon-sourced frame with Harrington body being sold in 1960 to Creamline Coaches in Hampshire. But following the success of the Ford R-Series and the Bedford VAL and VAM, Seddon decided to make a similar product, to a variety of wheelbases with Perkins engines; as on the competitors, these were vertically mounted on the front platform. This was launched in 1967 as the Pennine 4, which thanks to vigorous marketing became a strong seller worldwide, the largest order being from Kowloon Motor Bus of Hong Kong, who took 100 11-metre versions with Perkins 170 bhp V8 engines and Pennine Coachcraft 47 seat + 42 standing dual-door bodies. A rear-engined derivative was the Mark 5 (only one sold in the UK, a 45-seat Van Hool coach) and a version with a turbocharged Perkins 6-cylinder engine mounted at the front but under the passenger floor was the Pennine 6. In 1969 a more concerted effort at the UK bus market resulted in the launch of the Pennine RU.\n\nIn 1970, Seddon took over Atkinson Lorries to form Seddon Atkinson. In 1974 International Harvester bought Seddon Atkinson, later Pegaso took over the business until it in turn became part of Iveco, the last lorries under the Seddon Atkinson name were built in Oldham in 2004. Bus and coach production having ceased in 1983 when the last Pennine 7 models were delivered.\nOriginally the 1 January 1971 merger did not affect the lineup, with Seddon and Atkinson continuing to manufacture their old truck ranges in their respective plants. In 1975, however, a new unified range was presented with modern steel tilt cabs designed by Ogle developed together with Motor Panels. This consisted initially of the 400 series range, followed by the Seddon-based 200 Series in 1976 and then the 3-xle rigid 300 Series - higher numbers corresponding to a higher weight rating.\n\nThe Atkinson works manufactured the heavier 400 series while Seddon's Oldham plant built all three lines. The 200 has a lower profile and narrower cab (with a correspondingly lower grille) than do the other two. Meanwhile, the cabin of the 400 is mounted higher up than on the 300, necessitating a bigger front bumper with integrated headlights and different wheelwells. The 200 became the first \"Truck of the Year\", in 1977. The 200 and 300 both used International diesel engines, with the 300 having a inline-six with . The larger 400 was available with a range of diesels from Cummins, Gardner, or Rolls-Royce, with power outputs of up to . The 400 had a chassis which was mostly Atkinson.\nIn 1981 the range was updated and became 201, 301, and 401. A few early 401s were built in Atkinson's Walton-le-Dale plant but then all production was shifted to Oldham. The 201 originally came equipped with the 200's International engine, although this was changed to a Perkins motor following the termination of Seddon Atkinson's relationship with International. The 401 also received an improved interior, the changed grille, and a much improved gear linkage. The Motor Panels trucks had severe rust problems, forcing the introduction of a new anti-corrosion package in the mid-eighties. This period also marks the beginning of the recession which killed off many of the companies which had been buying Seddon Atkinson's trucks.\n\nIn 1984, International Harvester sold Seddon Atkinson to Enasa of Spain, to make up for a planned Spanish I-H engine factory which had failed to materialize. Sales of Seddon Atkinsons dwindled through the 1980s. Both the 400 and 401 series received heavy complaints over insufficient rust protection on the cabin. In 1985 Seddon Atkinson held about five percent of the British truck market.\nIn the summer of 1986 the lineup received yet another overhaul, starting with the 201 which became the 2-11. A 3-11 (also available as a tractor) followed in October 1986, and there was also a short lived 4-11, identifiable by deflectors on the front corners. New engines and various other improvements under the shell were matched by updated, more aerodynamic designs by Ogle. The panels remained the same however. These were trucks intended to have a more premium feel and generally offered more powerful engines, in line with market trends of the day. The 2-11 was the first truck to be fitted with Perkins' new 6.0 litre \"Phaser\" motor. In spite of the added equipment and more powerful engine, the 2-11 is also lighter than its predecessor. There was a turbodiesel or a intercooled version.\n\nIn 1988 the Strato range was launched, replacing the 401, using S-A's chassis combined with the more modern Pegaso cab from parent company Enasa (itself based on the DAF 95). In 1991 Iveco took over Enasa and acquired Seddon Atkinson as part of the deal. The Strato 2 subsequently utilised the Iveco Eurotech cabin. In 2005 production was moved to Iveco's Spanish facilities, but sales were low - only 284 units in the UK in 2005 - and in late 2006 it was announced that production of the niche Seddon Atkinsons had been stopped. The range had been sold across the UK by a network of 13 distributors, comprising a mix of dedicated Seddon Atkinson dealers together with dealers who also sell Iveco models. In December 2009, Iveco announced that the Seddon Atkinson brand would be withdrawn.\n\nRef. ALH (AtkinsonLorries Holdings) Collection, The Modern Records Centre, University of Warwick \n\n"}
{"id": "2010784", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010784", "title": "Ivor Grattan-Guinness", "text": "Ivor Grattan-Guinness\n\nIvor Owen Grattan-Guinness (23 June 1941 – 12 December 2014) was a historian of mathematics and logic.\n\nGrattan-Guinness was born in Bakewell, England; his father was a mathematics teacher and educational administrator. He gained his bachelor degree as a Mathematics Scholar at Wadham College, Oxford, and an MSc (Econ) in Mathematical Logic and the Philosophy of Science at the London School of Economics in 1966. He gained both the doctorate (PhD) in 1969, and higher doctorate (D.Sc.) in 1978, in the History of Science at the University of London. He was Emeritus Professor of the History of Mathematics and Logic at Middlesex University, and a Visiting Research Associate at the London School of Economics.\n\nHe was awarded the Kenneth O. May Medal for services to the History of Mathematics by the International Commission on the History of Mathematics (ICHM) on 31 July 2009, at Budapest, on the occasion of the 23rd International Congress for the History of Science. In 2010, he was elected an Honorary Member of the Bertrand Russell Society.\n\nGrattan-Guinness spent much of his career at Middlesex University. He was a fellow at the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, New Jersey, United States, and a member of the International Academy of the History of Science.\n\nFrom 1974 to 1981, Grattan-Guinness was editor of the history of science journal \"Annals of Science\". In 1979 he founded the journal \"History and Philosophy of Logic\", and edited it until 1992. He was an associate editor of \"Historia Mathematica\" for twenty years from its inception in 1974, and again from 1996.\n\nHe also acted as advisory editor to the editions of the writings of C.S. Peirce and Bertrand Russell, and to several other journals and book series. He was a member of the Executive Committee of the International Commission on the History of Mathematics from 1977 to 1993.\n\nGrattan-Guinness gave over 570 invited lectures to organisations and societies, or to conferences and congresses, in over 20 countries around the world. These lectures include tours undertaken in Australia, New Zealand, Italy, South Africa and Portugal.\n\nFrom 1986 to 1988, Grattan-Guinness was the President of the British Society for the History of Mathematics, and for 1992 the Vice-President. In 1991, he was elected an effective member of the Académie Internationale d'Histoire des Sciences. He was the Associate Editor for mathematicians and statisticians for the Oxford Dictionary of National Biography (2004).\n\nGrattan-Guinness took an interest in the phenomenon of coincidence and has written on it for the Society for Psychical Research. He claimed to have a recurrent affinity with one particular number, namely the square of 15 (225), even recounting one occasion when a car was in front of him with the number plate IGG225, i.e. his very initials and that number. He died of heart failure on 12 December 2014, aged 73, survived by his wife Enid Grattan-Guinness.\n\nThe work of Grattan-Guinness touched on all historical periods, but he specialised in the development of the calculus and mathematical analysis, and their applications to mechanics and mathematical physics, and in the rise of set theory and mathematical logic. He was especially interested in characterising how past thinkers, far removed from us in time, view their findings differently from the way we see them now (for example, Euclid). He has emphasised the importance of ignorance as an epistemological notion in this task. He did extensive research with original sources both published and unpublished, thanks to his reading and spoken knowledge of the main European languages.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2010788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010788", "title": "Paul Bishop", "text": "Paul Bishop\n\nPaul Bishop is a thirty-five year veteran of the Los Angeles Police Department, Paul Bishop's career has included a three-year tour with his department's Anti-Terrorist Division and over twenty-five years’ experience in the investigation of sex crimes. His Special Assaults Units regularly produced the highest number of detective initiated arrests and highest crime clearance rates in the city. Twice honored as Detective of the Year, Paul also received the Quality and Productivity Commission Award from the City of Los Angeles. As a nationally recognized interrogator, Paul starred as the lead interrogator and driving force behind the ABC reality show \"Take The Money and Run\" from producer Jerry Bruckheimer. Based on his expertise in deception detection, he currently conducts interrogation seminars for law enforcement, military, and human resource organizations. Paul has published fourteen novels, including four in his L.A.P.D. Detective Fey Croaker series, and one collection of short stories which includes a novelette featuring Croaker. He has also written numerous scripts for episodic television and feature films. He is the co-creator and editor of the Fight Card series of hardboiled boxing novels, which includes over forty titles, published under the pseudonym Jack Tunney. Paul's own entries in the series are \"Fight Card: Felony Fists\" and \"Fight Card: Swamp Walloper\", both featuring the two-fisted cop turned fighter, Patrick ‘Felony’ Flynn. His latest novel, \"Lie Catchers\", begins a new series featuring top LAPD interrogators Ray Pagan and Calamity Jane Randall.\n\nNovelist, screenwriter, and television personality, Paul Bishop spent 35 years with the Los Angeles Police Department where he was twice honored as Detective of the Year. He continues to work privately as an interrogation and deception expert. His fifteen novels include five in his LAPD Homicide Detective Fey Croaker series. His latest novel, \"Lie Catchers\", begins a new series featuring top LAPD interrogators Ray Pagan and \"Calamity Jane\" Randall.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2010789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010789", "title": "Carl Medjani", "text": "Carl Medjani\n\nCarl Medjani (; born 15 May 1985) is a professional footballer who plays as a central defender or defensive midfielder for French club FC Salaise.\n\nAfter spending his youth development years at Saint-Étienne he was signed by Liverpool's manager Gérard Houllier in August 2003. Liverpool beat off stiff competition from Premiership rivals Arsenal, Manchester United and German giants Bayern Munich to secure his services. In an interview with L'Équipe, Medjani revealed he left Saint-Étienne because he was willing to stay if given an opportunity with the first team but his request was turned down by Manager Frédéric Antonetti.\n\nMedjani then struggled to break in Liverpool first team so he was sent on loan to Lorient for the whole 2004–05 season by new Liverpool manager Rafael Benítez, where he made twenty five appearance. Despite impressing in the Toulon under-20 tournament in summer 2005, Benítez deemed it necessary for him to gain more experience and so he spent 2005–06 on loan at Metz.\n\nAt the start of the 2006–07 season, he rejoined Lorient, this time on a permanent basis.\n\nIn the 2007–08 season, Medjani moved down to Ligue 2 joining Ajaccio for the remainder of the season. \nThe 2008–09 season earned Medjani a permanent move with the club on a three-year deal. Medjani soon made an immediate impact when he scored his first goal in the second round of Coupe de la Ligue during Ajaccio's 4–2 loss against Montpellier. On 20 February 2009, Medjani came on as a substitute in the second half and 18 minutes to the game, Medjani was sent off, along with Brahim Ferradj in the same minute, as Ajaccio drew 1–1 with Brest. Medjani scored his first league goal of the season during Ajaccio's 3–1 defeat to Strasbourg.\n\nFollowing the 2009–10 season and the World Cup, Medjani was linked with Ligue 2 side Nantes. Ajaccio finished as runners-up in Ligue 2 resulting in their promotion to Ligue 1. Medjani signed a two-year contract extension until 2013. In the 2011–12 season, Medjani continued to be in the first team, either playing in centre back and defensive midfield. Medjani scored his first goal in a 3–1 loss against Paris Saint-Germain on 16 October 2011. On 10 December 2012, Medjani made a mistake in the final minutes, allowing Daniel Niculae to score in a 2–2 draw against Nancy, in a match which could have ended Ajaccio thirteen games without winning. In April, Medjani scored his second goal of the season, in a 1–1 draw against Saint-Étienne.\n\nAhead of the 2012–13 season, Medjani expressed his desire to leave the club. In December, Medjani started to wear the captain's armband.\n\nIn January 2013, just prior to the closing of the transfer window, Medjani joined Monaco on a three and a half year contract from Ajaccio.\n\nFollowing Monaco promotion, Medjani was told by Manager Claudio Ranieri that his first team appearances would be limited following the club's spending spree.\n\nIn July 2013, Medjani was sent out on loan to Olympiacos from Monaco until 1 January 2014, with the option of a permanent move. After six months with few appearances at Olympiacos, he returned to his parent club.\n\nUpon his return to France, Monaco then loaned him out to Valenciennes till the end of 2013/14 season.\n\nFollowing his loan spell at Valenciennes, Medjani’s time at Monaco came to an end despite having two years of his contract left.\n\nAfter leaving Monaco, Medjani was linked with a move to Trabzonspor and Cagliari Calcio before joining Trabzobspor on a three-year contract. He scored his first goal for the club in the play-off round of the Europa League as Trabzonspor beat Rostov 2–0 in the first leg.\n\nOn 30 January 2016, La Liga side Levante UD have signed Medjani until the end of the season, with an option to extend the contract for another season. On 25 July, after suffering relegation, he signed a one-year contract with CD Leganés also in the main category.\nOn 9 January 2017, Medjani rescinded with \"Lega\" and signed with Trabzonspor again.\n\nMedjani has an Algerian father and a French mother, and was eligible for both national teams. Medjani captained the France U21 team in the Toulon Tournament of 2006.\n\nHowever, being of Algerian origin, he made the switch to represent Algeria in international competitions and was called up by Rabah Saâdane to the Algerian preliminary squad for the 2010 FIFA World Cup, before going on to make the full tournament squad.\n\nOn 10 December 2012, it was announced that Medjani was selected in the 40-man provisional squad for the 2013 Africa Cup of Nations. Medjani survived the cuts, firstly to the 24-man list announced on 18 December 2012, and then to the final squad of twenty-three.\n\nHaving won 25 caps by this point, Medjani made his second FIFA World Cup squad by winning a place in the Algerian cohort for the 2014 FIFA World Cup. A year and ten appearances later, Medjani joined the Algeria team at the 2015 Africa Cup of Nations.\n\nWhile growing up, Medjani revered boxer Muhammad Ali.\n"}
{"id": "2010793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010793", "title": "Ceiling effect (statistics)", "text": "Ceiling effect (statistics)\n\nThe ceiling effect is observed when an independent variable no longer has an effect on a dependent variable, or the level above which variance in an independent variable is no longer measurable. The specific application varies slightly in differentiating between two areas of use for this term: pharmacological or statistical. An example of use in the first area, a ceiling effect in treatment, is pain relief by some kinds of analgesic drugs, which have no further effect on pain above a particular dosage level (see also: ceiling effect in pharmacology). An example of use in the second area, a ceiling effect in data-gathering, is a survey that groups all respondents into income categories, not distinguishing incomes of respondents above the highest level measured in the survey instrument. The maximum income level able to be reported creates a \"ceiling\" that results in measurement inaccuracy, as the dependent variable range is not inclusive of the true values above that point. The ceiling effect can occur any time a measure involves a set range in which a normal distribution predicts multiple scores at or above the maximum value for the dependent variable.\n\nA ceiling effect in data-gathering, when variance in a dependent variable is not measured or estimated above a certain level, is a commonly encountered practical issue in gathering data in many scientific disciplines. Such an effect is often the result of constraints on data-gathering instruments. When a ceiling effect occurs in data-gathering, there is a bunching of scores at the upper level reported by an instrument.\n\nResponse bias occurs commonly in research regarding issues that may have ethical bases or are generally perceived as having negative connotations. Participants may fail to respond to a measure appropriately based on whether they believe the accurate response is viewed negatively. A population survey about lifestyle variables influencing health outcomes might include a question about smoking habits. To guard against the possibility that a respondent who is a heavy smoker might decline to give an accurate response about smoking, the highest level of smoking asked about in the survey instrument might be \"two packs a day or more\". This results in a ceiling effect in that persons who smoke three packs or more a day are not distinguished from persons who smoke exactly two packs. A population survey about income similarly might have a highest response level of \"$100,000 per year or more\", rather than including higher income ranges, as respondents might decline to answer at all if the survey questions identify their income too specifically. This too results in a ceiling effect, not distinguishing persons who have an income of $500,000 per year or higher from those whose income is exactly $100,000 per year. The role of response bias in causing ceiling effects is clearly seen through the example of survey respondents believing the desirable response to be the maximum reportable value, resulting in a clustering of data points. The attempted prevention of response bias, in the case of the smoking habit survey, leads to ceiling effects through the basic design of the measure.\n\nThe range of data that can be gathered by a particular instrument may be constrained by inherent limits in the instrument's design. Often design of a particular instrument involves trade-offs between ceiling effects and floor effects. If a dependent variable measured on a nominal scale does not have response categories that appropriately cover the upper end of the sample's distribution, the maximum value response will have to include all values above the end of the scale. This will result in a ceiling effect due to the grouping of respondents into the single maximum category, which prevents an accurate representation of the deviation beyond that point. This issue occurs in many types of surveys that use pre-determined bracket-style responses. When many subjects have scores on a variable at the upper limit of what an instrument reports, data analysis provides inaccurate information because some actual variation in the data is not reflected in the scores obtained from that instrument.\n\nA ceiling effect is said to occur when a high proportion of subjects in a study have maximum scores on the observed variable. This makes discrimination among subjects among the top end of the scale impossible. For example, an examination paper may lead to, say, 50% of the students scoring 100%. While such a paper may serve as a useful threshold test, it does not allow ranking of the top performers. For this reason, examination of test results for a possible ceiling effect, and the converse floor effect, is often built into the validation of instruments such as those used for measuring quality of life.\n\nIn such a case, the ceiling effect keeps the instrument from noting a measurement or estimate higher than some limit not related to the phenomenon being observed, but rather related to the design of the instrument. A crude example would be measuring the heights of trees with a ruler only 20 meters in length, if it is apparent on the basis of other evidence that there are trees much taller than 20 meters. Using the 20-meter ruler as the sole means of measuring trees would impose a ceiling on gathering data about tree height. Ceiling effects and floor effects both limit the range of data reported by the instrument, reducing variability in the gathered data. Limited variability in the data gathered on one variable may reduce the power of statistics on correlations between that variable and another variable.\n\nIn the various countries that use admission tests as the main element or an important element for determining eligibility for college or university study, the data gathered relates to the differing levels of performance of applicants on the tests. When a college admission test has a maximum possible score that can be attained without perfect performance on the test's item content, the test's scoring scale has a ceiling effect. Moreover, if the test's item content is easy for many test-takers, the test may not reflect actual differences in performance (as would be detected with other instruments) among test-takers at the high end of the test performance range. Mathematics tests used for college admission in the United States and similar tests used for university admission in Britain illustrate both phenomena.\n\nIn cognitive psychology, mental processes such as problem solving and memorization are studied experimentally by using operational definitions that allow for clear measurements. A common measurement of interest is the time taken to respond to a given stimulus. In studying this variable, a ceiling may be the lowest possible number (the fewest milliseconds to a response), rather than the highest value, as is the usual interpretation of \"ceiling\". In response time studies, it may appear that a ceiling had occurred in the measurements due to an apparent clustering around some minimum amount of time (such as the fastest time recorded in an experiment). However, this clustering could actually represent a natural physiological limit of response time, rather than an artifact of the stopwatch sensitivity (which of course would be a ceiling effect). Further statistical study, and scientific judgment, can resolve whether or not the observations are due to a ceiling or are the truth of the matter.\n\nSome authors on gifted education write about ceiling effects in IQ testing having negative consequences on individuals. Those authors sometimes claim such ceilings produce systematic underestimation of the IQs of intellectually gifted people. In this case, it is necessary to distinguish carefully two different ways the term \"ceiling\" is used in writings about IQ testing.\n\nThe ceilings of IQ subtests are imposed by their ranges of progressively more difficult items. An IQ test with a wide range of progressively more difficult questions will have a higher ceiling than one with a narrow range and few difficult items. Ceiling effects result in an inability, first, to distinguish among the gifted (whether moderately gifted, profoundly gifted, etc.), and second, results in the erroneous classification of some gifted people as above average, but not gifted.\n\nSuppose that an IQ test has three subtests: vocabulary, arithmetic, and picture analogies. The scores on each of the subtests are normalized (see standard score) and then added together to produce a composite IQ score. Now suppose that Joe obtains the maximum score of 20 on the arithmetic test, but gets 10 out of 20 on the vocabulary and analogies tests. Is it fair to say that Joe's total score of 20+10+10, or 40, represents his total ability? The answer is no, because Joe achieved the maximum possible score of 20 on the arithmetic test. Had the arithmetic test included additional, more difficult items, Joe might have gotten 30 points on that subtest, producing a \"true\" score of 30+10+10 or 50. Compare Joe's performance with that of Jim, who scored 15+15+15 = 45, without running into any subtest ceilings. In the original formulation of the test, Jim did better than Joe (45 versus 40), whereas it is Joe who actually should have gotten the higher \"total\" intelligence score than Jim (score of 50 for Joe versus 45 for Jim) using a reformulated test that includes more difficult arithmetic items.\n\nWritings on gifted education bring up two reasons for supposing that some IQ scores are underestimates of a test-taker's intelligence:\n\nCeiling effects on measurement compromise scientific truth and understanding through a number of related statistical aberrations.\n\nFirst, ceilings impair the ability of investigators to determine the central tendency of the data. When a ceiling effect relates to data gathered on a dependent variable, failure to recognize that ceiling effect may \"lead to the mistaken conclusion that the independent variable has no effect.\" For mathematical reasons beyond the scope of this article (see analysis of variance), this inhibited variance reduces the sensitivity of scientific experiments designed to determine if the average of one group is significantly different from the average of another group. For example, a treatment given to one group may produce an effect, but the effect may escape detection because the mean of the treated group won't look different enough from the mean of the untreated group.\n\nThus \"ceiling effects are a complex of matters and their avoidance a matter of careful evaluation of a range of issues.\"\n\nBecause ceiling effects prevent accurate interpretation of data, it is important to attempt preventing the effects from occurring or using the presence of the effects to adjust the instrument and procedures that were used. Researchers may try to prevent ceiling effects from occurring using a number of methods. The first of which is choosing a previously validated measure by reviewing past research. If no validated measures exist, pilot testing may be conducted using the proposed methods. Pilot testing, or conducting a pilot experiment, involves a small-scale trial of instruments and procedures prior to the actual experiment, allowing for the recognition that adjustments should be made for the most efficient and accurate data collection. If researchers are using a design that is not previously validated, a combination of surveys, involving that originally-proposed and another supported by past literature, may be used to assess for the presence of ceiling effects. If any research, especially the pilot study, shows a ceiling effect, efforts should be made to adjust the instrument so that the effect may be mitigated and informative research can be conducted.\n\n\n\nYou may also see this: https://methods.sagepub.com/Reference/encyc-of-research-design/n44.xml\n"}
{"id": "2010810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010810", "title": "Robert Bunda", "text": "Robert Bunda\n\nRobert \"Bobby\" Bunda (born April 25, 1947) is a former Democratic member of the Hawaii Senate, representing the 22nd District from 1994 through 2010, when he resigned his position in an unsuccessful bid for Lieutenant Governor of Hawaii. Previously he was a member of the Hawaii House of Representatives from 1983 through 1994.\n\nHe is the first Filipino American to attain the presidency of any state legislature in the United States.\n\nHe attended Ludwigsburg American High School in Stuttgart, Germany, Leilehua High School, Texas Wesleyan College where he earned his Bachelor of Science in 1974, and the University of Dallas for his graduate studies.\n\nThe 2009 Achievement Award for Public Affairs was conferred to Bunda by \"Filipinas Magazine\". The magazine, self-described as \"the Magazine for Filipinos Worldwide\" named Bunda as among the \"brightest lights\" of the Filipino community.\nBunda announced on October 13, 2009, that he had entered the 2010 race for Lieutenant Governor for the State of Hawaiʻi. Bunda subsequently lost the election to former state legislator and state party chairman Brian Schatz.\n\n"}
{"id": "2010815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010815", "title": "How to Make a Monster (2001 film)", "text": "How to Make a Monster (2001 film)\n\nHow to Make a Monster is a 2001 film starring Steven Culp and Clea DuVall. It is the third release in the \"Creature Features\" series of film remakes produced by Stan Winston. Julie Strain made a cameo appearance in the film as herself. \"How to Make a Monster\" debuted on October 14, 2001 on Cinemax. In 2005, it was nominated for a Hollywood Makeup Artist Award and Hair Stylist Guild Award.\n\nWhen a test group says Clayton Software's latest video game, \"Evilution\", is too boring, the game's development team is fired. Businessman Peter Drummond hires three new programmers: A weapons expert named Hardcore, a game artificial intelligence designer named Sol, and a sound effects creator named Bug. Clayton Software’s CEO Faye Clayton promises $1 million to the programmer who makes the game the \"scariest\", igniting a fierce rivalry between the trio. During a storm three weeks later, lightning strikes the building and causes all of the computers and electronic equipment to go offline. After a meeting with Drummond, the three programmers decide to try out the game with the help of Clayton Software intern Laura Wheeler. The game involves a motion capture suit that is connected to the computer network and used to program the game's movements. Peter places a backup CD into the external drive while the others set up. Bug, Hardcore, and Sol soon lose the game, and are surprised to see Laura get all the way to the final boss.\n\nSol inserts his new AI chip into the mainframe and begins to play the game. As he advances to the game's third level, the motion capture suit connected to the computer network comes alive. Simultaneously, the suit attacks Sol in real life while an in-game monster drags Sol's video game character away. The following morning, Bug and Hardcore discover that Sol has been killed and the backup CD has been stolen. Hardcore attempts to review the security camera tapes with his PDA, but accidentally touches the motion capture suit, which has merged itself with Sol's dead body. The suit attacks Hardcore; although he initially manages to fight it off, he is later killed. The suit then merges itself with Hardcore's muscular body and takes all of his weapons, giving it a striking resemblance to the monster in the game. Bug theorizes that the lightning strike combined with Sol's powerful AI chip and Hardcore’s rewiring of the system (so he could fill the building’s mainframe with his weapons) has caused the suit to believe the real world is part of the video game. Bug, Laura and Drummond decide to pull the computer's plug, although doing so will likely erase all of the game's data.\n\nWhile Bug tries to figure out which set of wires to pull, Drummond is attacked by the monster. With Bug's help, Drummond manages to escape, but the security system malfunctions, seals all exits, and leaves Laura, Bug, and Drummond in near darkness. Bug travels through ceiling shafts and falls into the kitchen area, where he is attacked by the monster. As the monster draws closer, Bug exposes a gas line and lights his lighter, killing both himself and the monster. The monster returns to the motion-capture suit and attacks Drummond, but Laura saves him by virtually fighting the in-game monster. Laura later tries to beat the game but becomes frustrated and hysterical. Drummond suggests that she try a virtual reality headset, promising to stay with her while she fights. However, in the midst of the game, Laura realizes Drummond has left her. The monster appears and, in the real world, Laura escapes to the kitchen. There she finds Hardcore’s PDA displaying a video of Drummond stealing the game's backup CD the night of Sol's death; had Drummond not stolen it, the CD would have allowed the programmers to reverse compile the game and shut down the monster. Laura finds and confronts Drummond at gun point, forcing him to drop the CD. Drummond makes a speech stating that Laura is naive and that everyone is ultimately a monster, before mocking her with this sentence: \"You will learn, intern. You will learn.\" Laura shoots him in the knee and allows the monster to kill him. Laura then dons the VR headset and gloves, acquires a sword, and simultaneously battles the monster in both the real and virtual world. In the real world, she lures the suit toward a fish tank and electrocutes it with the water inside. She then stabs the monster with her sword, finally killing the monster.\n\nWith everyone else who made the game dead, Laura turns in the final version of the game and demands the million dollar bonus for herself. The whole event has changed her, making her more jaded and world weary. The video game finally impresses the game testers. Laura uses the game's success to become the new ruthless CEO of the company, which is renamed Wheeler Software. In the last minutes of the film, Laura is seen interviewing a new female intern. It is then revealed that shortly after killing the monster, Laura, who was still wearing the VR headset at the time, took a glance at the water puddle below. What was reflected is not Laura's or her virtual character's face, but the monster's face. The implication here is that by letting Drummond get killed, Laura has discarded her last shred of humanity and now become just as evil as he was- a monster. It is unknown if this is part of the game's ending code, glitch, or simply Laura's subconscious telling her how far she has crossed the line. Regardless, Laura then repeated Drummond's mocking sentence to her at the new intern: \"You will learn, intern. You will learn.\"\n\n\n\"How to Make a Monster\" was released on DVD on June 11, 2002. The film is presented in anamorphic widescreen and its audio is presented in 5.1 surround sound in both English and French. Extra features include a \"making-of\" featurette, photo galleries of drawings and behind-the-scenes images, and theatrical trailers for other Columbia TriStar horror films. The DVD also includes DVD-ROM content for personal computers.\n\nNathan Rabin of \"The A.V. Club\" wrote, \"Huang's film intermittently qualifies as an intriguing experiment, but it quickly runs out of ideas and energy.\" Maitland McDonagh of \"TV Guide\" rated it 2/4 stars and wrote, \"One in a series of made-for-cable, in-name-only remakes of cheesy cult classics, this sci-fi horror picture is tailor-made for people who hate video games.\" Beyond Hollywood wrote that the film's budget limitations and technological ignorance make it \"at best silly, and at worst pure crap\". Adam Tyner of DVD Talk rated it 2/5 stars and concluded, \"It's not an awful movie, after all...just a decidedly lackluster one.\"\n\nStaiger, Michael. \"Evilution - Die Bestie aus dem Cyberspace\". In \"film-dienst\" (Germany), Vol. 55, Iss. 15, 16 July 2002, Pg. 32\n\n"}
{"id": "2010819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010819", "title": "Exostosis", "text": "Exostosis\n\nAn exostosis, also known as bone spur, is the formation of new bone on the surface of a bone. Exostoses can cause chronic pain ranging from mild to debilitatingly severe, depending on the shape, size, and location of the lesion. It is most commonly found in places like the ribs, where small bone growths form, but sometimes larger growths can grow on places like the ankles, knees, shoulders, elbows and hips. Very rarely are they on the skull. \n\nExostoses are sometimes shaped like spurs, such as calcaneal spurs. \n\nOsteomyelitis, a bone infection, may leave the adjacent bone with exostosis formation. Charcot foot, the neuropathic breakdown of the feet seen primarily in diabetics, can also leave bone spurs that may then become symptomatic.\nThey normally form on the bones of joints, and can grow upwards. For example, if an extra bone formed on the ankle, it might grow up to the shin. \n\nWhen used in the phrases \"cartilaginous exostosis\" or \"osteocartilaginous exostosis\", the term is considered synonymous with osteochondroma. Some sources consider the two terms to mean the same thing even without qualifiers, but this interpretation is not universal.\n\nOsteophytes are bone spurs that develop on the margins of joints secondary to external stimuli such as osteoarthritis. However, these are not always distinguished from exostoses in any definite way.\n\nEvidence for exostosis found in the fossil record is studied by paleopathologists, specialists in ancient disease and injury. Exostosis has been reported in dinosaur fossils from several species, including \"Acrocanthosaurus atokensis\", \"Albertosaurus sarcophagus\", \"Allosaurus fragilis\", \"Gorgosaurus libratus\", and \"Poekilopleuron bucklandii\".\n\nHereditary multiple exostoses (HME), also called hereditary multiple osteochondromas (HMO), is a condition that is estimated to affect 1 in 50,000 individuals. Multiple benign or noncancerous bone tumors develop in the affected individuals. The number and location vary among affected patients. Most people seem unaffected at birth; however, by the age of 12 years, they develop multiple exostoses. Affected individuals commonly complain of palpable and recognizable lumps (exostoses) at about the knees and in the forearms. The condition characteristically occurs bilaterally. It may lead to mild degrees of growth retardation and limb asymmetry. Genu valgum (commonly known as \"knock-knees\"), ankle valgus, and bowing and shortening of one or both of the forearm bones are common manifestations.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2010826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010826", "title": "Sodium oxide", "text": "Sodium oxide\n\nSodium oxide is a chemical compound with the formula NaO. It is used in ceramics and glasses. The compound is the base anhydride of sodium hydroxide; when water is added to sodium oxide, NaOH is produced.\n\nThe alkali metal oxides MO (M = Li, Na, K, Rb) crystallise in the antifluorite structure. In this motif the positions of the anions and cations are reversed relative to their positions in CaF, with sodium ions tetrahedrally coordinated to 4 oxide ions and oxide cubically coordinated to 8 sodium ions.\n\nSodium oxide is produced by the reaction of sodium with sodium hydroxide, sodium peroxide, or sodium nitrite:\n\nMost of these reactions rely on the reduction of something by sodium, whether it is hydroxide, peroxide, or nitrite.\n\nBurning sodium in air will produce NaO and about 20% sodium peroxide NaO.\n\nSodium oxide is a significant component of most glass, although it is added in the form of \"soda\" (sodium carbonate). Typically, manufactured glass contains around 15% sodium oxide, 70% silica (silicon dioxide) and 9% lime (calcium oxide). The sodium carbonate \"soda\" serves as a flux to lower the temperature at which the silica mixture melts. Soda glass has a much lower melting temperature than pure silica, and has slightly higher elasticity. These changes arise because the silicon dioxide and soda have reacted to form sodium silicates of the general formula Na[SiO][SiO].\n\n"}
{"id": "2010827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010827", "title": "Saddler", "text": "Saddler\n\nSaddler or Saddlers may refer to:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2010834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010834", "title": "Calvin Say", "text": "Calvin Say\n\nCalvin K.Y. Say (born February 1, 1952) is a Democratic member of the Hawaii State House of Representatives, representing the 20th District since 1977. He served as Speaker of the House for 13 years until 2013, when he was replaced by Joseph M. Souki (who was himself a former Speaker). He attended Saint Louis High School and received a bachelor's degree in education from the University of Hawaii at Manoa.\n\n"}
{"id": "2010836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010836", "title": "Sodium peroxide", "text": "Sodium peroxide\n\nSodium peroxide is the inorganic compound with the formula NaO. This yellowish solid is the product of sodium ignited in excess oxygen. It is a strong base. This metal peroxide exists in several hydrates and peroxyhydrates including NaO·2HO·4HO, NaO·2HO, NaO·2HO, and NaO·8HO. The octahydrate, which is simple to prepare, is white, in contrast to the anhydrous material.\n\nSodium peroxide crystallizes with hexagonal symmetry. Upon heating, the hexagonal form undergoes a transition into a phase of unknown symmetry at 512 °C. With further heating above the 657 °C boiling point, the compound decomposes to NaO, releasing O.\n\nThe octahydrate is produced by treating sodium hydroxide with hydrogen peroxide.\n\nSodium peroxide can be prepared on a large scale by the reaction of metallic sodium with oxygen at 130–200 °C, a process that generates sodium oxide, which in a separate stage absorbs oxygen:\n\nIt may also be produced by passing ozone gas over solid sodium iodide inside a platinum or palladium tube. The ozone oxidizes the sodium to form sodium peroxide. The iodine can be sublimed by mild heating. The platinum or palladium catalyzes the reaction and is not attacked by the sodium peroxide.\n\nSodium peroxide hydrolyzes to give sodium hydroxide and hydrogen peroxide according to the reaction\n\nSodium peroxide was used to bleach wood pulp for the production of paper and textiles. Presently it is mainly used for specialized laboratory operations, e.g., the extraction of minerals from various ores. Sodium peroxide may go by the commercial names of \"Solozone\" and \"Flocool\". In chemistry preparations, sodium peroxide is used as an oxidizing agent. It is also used as an oxygen source by reacting it with carbon dioxide to produce oxygen and sodium carbonate:\nIt is thus particularly useful in scuba gear, submarines, etc. Lithium peroxide has similar uses.\n\n"}
{"id": "2010845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010845", "title": "Sodium superoxide", "text": "Sodium superoxide\n\nSodium superoxide is the inorganic compound with the formula NaO. This yellow-orange solid is a salt of the superoxide anion. It is an intermediate in the oxidation of sodium by oxygen.\n\nNaO is prepared by treating sodium peroxide with oxygen at high pressures:\nIt can also be prepared by careful oxygenation of a solution of sodium in ammonia:\n\nIt is also produced, along with sodium peroxide, when sodium is stored under inappropriate conditions (e.g. in dirty or partially halogenated solvents). \n\nThe product is paramagnetic, as expected for a salt of the anion. It hydrolyses readily to give a mixture of sodium hydroxide, oxygen and hydrogen peroxide. It crystallizes in the NaCl motif.\n"}
{"id": "2010854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010854", "title": "New Hampshire Route 120", "text": "New Hampshire Route 120\n\nNew Hampshire Route 120 is a secondary north–south state highway in Sullivan and Grafton counties in the upper Connecticut River Valley region of New Hampshire. Its southern terminus is at New Hampshire Route 11 and New Hampshire Route 103 in Claremont. Its northern terminus is at New Hampshire Route 10 in Hanover.\n\nNH 120 begins in downtown Claremont on the Sugar River at NH 11 / NH 103. The initial stretch of the highway is on North Street but then it turns onto Hanover Street and heads north, passing through the towns of Cornish and Plainfield with no major junctions. NH 120 enters Lebanon and proceeds directly into the heart of the city, where it meets (and briefly overlaps) U.S. Route 4 at a large roundabout. NH 120 turns north again, interchanging with Interstate 89 / NH 10, and continues out of town. NH 120 then crosses into Hanover and proceeds northwest into the center of town where it terminates at NH 10 near Dartmouth College.\n\nNH 120 is cosigned with NH 10 on North Park Street in Hanover to terminate at Lyme Road/College Street, but this does not appear to be part of the official routing.\n"}
{"id": "2010856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010856", "title": "Priory School (Kingston)", "text": "Priory School (Kingston)\n\nThe Priory School in Kingston, Jamaica teaches kindergarten, primary and secondary students, the latter under the name Priory High.\n\nIt was founded in 1944 as \"The Priory House\" by Henry Fowler, a Jamaican Rhodes scholar, political activist and patron of the arts and educational causes. Fowler was Priory's headmaster from its founding until his retirement in 1973.\n\nPriory originally consisted of just one building, a former private residence \"The Priory\". This had been built in 1907 by the Governor of Jamaica Hugh Clarence Bourne to replace the previous building destroyed in the 1907 Kingston earthquake. This previous building had been in use as a rectory and it was in allusion to this that the name \"Priory\" was chosen for the new building.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2010860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010860", "title": "List of birds of Minnesota", "text": "List of birds of Minnesota\n\nThis list of birds of Minnesota includes species documented in the U.S. state of Minnesota and accepted by the Minnesota Ornithologists' Union Records Committee (MOURC). As of the end of 2019, there are 444 species included in the official list. Of them, 87 are classed as accidental, 41 are classed as casual, eight have been introduced to North America, two are extinct, and one has been extirpated.\n\nThis list is presented in the taxonomic sequence of the \"Check-list of North and Middle American Birds\", 7th edition through the 60th Supplement, published by the American Ornithological Society (AOS). Common and scientific names are also those of the \"Check-list\".\n\nUnless otherwise noted, all species listed below are considered to occur regularly in Minnesota as permanent residents, summer or winter visitors, or migrants. The following codes are used to define some categories of occurrence:\n\n\nOrder: AnseriformesFamily: Anatidae\n\nThe family Anatidae includes the ducks and most duck-like waterfowl, such as geese and swans. These birds are adapted to an aquatic existence with webbed feet, bills which are flattened to a greater or lesser extent, and feathers that are excellent at shedding water due to special oils.\n\n\nOrder: GalliformesFamily: Odontophoridae\n\nThe New World quails are small, plump terrestrial birds only distantly related to the quails of the Old World, but named for their similar appearance and habits.\n\n\nOrder: GalliformesFamily: Phasianidae\n\nPhasianidae consists of the pheasants and their allies including the partridges, grouse, turkeys, and Old World quail. These are terrestrial species, variable in size but generally plump, with broad, relatively short wings. Many species are gamebirds or have been domesticated as a food source for humans.\n\n\nOrder: PodicipediformesFamily: Podicipedidae\n\nGrebes are small to medium-large freshwater diving birds. They have lobed toes and are excellent swimmers and divers. However, they have their feet placed far back on the body, making them quite ungainly on land.\n\n\nOrder: ColumbiformesFamily: Columbidae\n\nPigeons and doves are stout-bodied birds with short necks and short slender bills with a fleshy cere.\n\n\nOrder: CuculiformesFamily: Cuculidae\n\nThe family Cuculidae includes cuckoos, roadrunners, and anis. These birds are of variable size with slender bodies, long tails, and strong legs.\n\n\nOrder: CaprimulgiformesFamily: Caprimulgidae\n\nNightjars are medium-sized nocturnal birds that usually nest on the ground. They have long wings, short legs, and very short bills. Most have small feet, of little use for walking, and long pointed wings. Their soft plumage is cryptically colored to resemble bark or leaves.\n\n\nOrder: ApodiformesFamily: Apodidae\n\nThe swifts are small birds which spend the majority of their lives flying. These birds have very short legs and never settle voluntarily on the ground, perching instead only on vertical surfaces. Many swifts have very long, swept-back wings which resemble a crescent or boomerang.\n\n\nOrder: ApodiformesFamily: Trochilidae\n\nHummingbirds are small birds capable of hovering in mid-air due to the rapid flapping of their wings. They are the only birds that can fly backwards.\n\n\nOrder: GruiformesFamily: Rallidae\n\nRallidae is a large family of small to medium-sized birds which includes the rails, crakes, coots, and gallinules. The most typical family members occupy dense vegetation in damp environments near lakes, swamps, or rivers. In general they are shy and secretive birds, which are difficult to observe. Most species have strong legs and long toes which are well adapted to soft uneven surfaces. They tend to have short, rounded wings and to be weak fliers.\n\n\nOrder: GruiformesFamily: Gruidae\n\nCranes are large, long-legged, and long-necked birds. Unlike the similar-looking but unrelated herons, cranes fly with necks outstretched, not pulled back. Most have elaborate and noisy courting displays or \"dances\".\n\n\nOrder: CharadriiformesFamily: Recurvirostridae\n\nRecurvirostridae is a family of large wading birds which includes the avocets and stilts. The avocets have long legs and long up-curved bills. The stilts have extremely long legs and long, thin, straight bills.\n\n\nOrder: CharadriiformesFamily: Charadriidae\n\nThe family Charadriidae includes the plovers, dotterels, and lapwings. They are small to medium-sized birds with compact bodies, short thick necks, and long, usually pointed, wings. They are found in open country worldwide, mostly in habitats near water.\n\n\nOrder: CharadriiformesFamily: Scolopacidae\n\nScolopacidae is a large diverse family of small to medium-sized shorebirds including the sandpipers, curlews, godwits, shanks, tattlers, woodcocks, snipes, dowitchers, and phalaropes. The majority of these species eat small invertebrates picked out of the mud or soil. Different lengths of legs and bills enable multiple species to feed in the same habitat, particularly on the coast, without direct competition for food.\n\n\nOrder: CharadriiformesFamily: Stercorariidae\n\nSkuas and jaegers are related to gulls, shorebirds, auks, and skimmers. In the three jaeger species (all Holarctic), breeding adults have the two central tail feathers obviously elongated and at least some adults have white on the underparts and pale yellow on the neck, characteristics that the larger species do not share.\n\n\nOrder: CharadriiformesFamily: Alcidae\n\nAlcids are superficially similar to penguins due to their black-and-white colors, their upright posture, and some of their habits, however they are only distantly related to the penguins and are able to fly. Auks live on the open sea, only deliberately coming ashore to nest. This family also includes murres and puffins.\n\n\nOrder: CharadriiformesFamily: Laridae\n\nLaridae is a family of medium to large seabirds and includes gulls, terns, kittiwakes, and skimmers. They are typically gray or white, often with black markings on the head or wings. They have stout, longish bills and webbed feet.\n\n\nOrder: GaviiformesFamily: Gaviidae\n\nLoons are aquatic birds the size of a large duck, to which they are unrelated. Their plumage is largely gray or black, and they have spear-shaped bills. Loons swim well and fly adequately, but are almost hopeless on land, because their legs are placed towards the rear of the body.\n\n\nOrder: ProcellariiformesFamily: Procellariidae\n\nThe procellariids are the main group of medium-sized \"true petrels\", characterized by united nostrils with medium septum and a long outer functional primary.\n\n\nOrder: CiconiiformesFamily: Ciconiidae\n\nStorks are large, heavy, long-legged, long-necked wading birds with long stout bills and wide wingspans. They lack the powder down that other wading birds such as herons, spoonbills, and ibises use to clean off fish slime. Storks lack a pharynx and are mute.\n\n\nOrder: SuliformesFamily: Fregatidae\n\nFrigatebirds are large seabirds usually found over tropical oceans. They are large, black, or black-and-white, with long wings and deeply forked tails. The males have colored inflatable throat pouches. They do not swim or walk and cannot take off from a flat surface. Having the largest wingspan-to-body-weight ratio of any bird, they are essentially aerial, able to stay aloft for more than a week.\n\n\nOrder: SuliformesFamily: Phalacrocoracidae\n\nCormorants are medium-to-large aquatic birds, usually with mainly dark plumage and areas of colored skin on the face. The bill is long, thin, and sharply hooked. Their feet are four-toed and webbed.\n\n\nOrder: PelecaniformesFamily: Pelecanidae\n\nPelicans are very large water birds with a distinctive pouch under their beak. Like other birds in the order Pelecaniformes, they have four webbed toes.\n\n\nOrder: PelecaniformesFamily: Ardeidae\n\nThe family Ardeidae contains the herons, egrets, and bitterns. Herons and egrets are medium to large wading birds with long necks and legs. Bitterns tend to be shorter necked and more secretive. Members of Ardeidae fly with their necks retracted, unlike other long-necked birds such as storks, ibises, and spoonbills.\n\n\nOrder: PelecaniformesFamily: Threskiornithidae\n\nThe family Threskiornithidae includes the ibises and spoonbills. They have long, broad wings. Their bodies tend to be elongated, the neck more so, with rather long legs. The bill is also long, decurved in the case of the ibises, straight and distinctively flattened in the spoonbills.\n\n\nOrder: CathartiformesFamily: Cathartidae\n\nThe New World vultures are not closely related to Old World vultures, but superficially resemble them because of convergent evolution. Like the Old World vultures, they are scavengers However, unlike Old World vultures, which find carcasses by sight, New World vultures have a good sense of smell with which they locate carcasses.\n\n\nOrder: AccipitriformesFamily: Pandionidae\n\nPandionidae is a family of fish-eating birds of prey possessing a very large, powerful, hooked beak for tearing flesh from their prey, strong legs, powerful talons, and keen eyesight. The family is monotypic.\n\n\nOrder: AccipitriformesFamily: Accipitridae\n\nAccipitridae is a family of birds of prey, which includes hawks, eagles, kites, harriers, and Old World vultures. These birds have very large powerful hooked beaks for tearing flesh from their prey, strong legs, powerful talons, and keen eyesight.\n\n\nOrder: StrigiformesFamily: Tytonidae\n\nBarn-owls are medium to large owls with large heads and characteristic heart-shaped faces. They have long strong legs with powerful talons.\n\n\nOrder: StrigiformesFamily: Strigidae\n\nThe typical owls are small to large solitary nocturnal birds of prey. They have large forward-facing eyes and ears, a hawk-like beak, and a conspicuous circle of feathers around each eye called a facial disk.\n\n\nOrder: CoraciiformesFamily: Alcedinidae\n\nKingfishers are medium-sized birds with large heads, long, pointed bills, short legs, and stubby tails.\n\n\nOrder: PiciformesFamily: Picidae\n\nWoodpeckers are small to medium-sized birds with chisel-like beaks, short legs, stiff tails, and long tongues used for capturing insects. Some species have feet with two toes pointing forward and two backward, while several species have only three toes. Many woodpeckers have the habit of tapping noisily on tree trunks with their beaks.\n\n\nOrder: FalconiformesFamily: Falconidae\n\nFalconidae is a family of diurnal birds of prey, notably the falcons and caracaras. They differ from hawks, eagles, and kites in that they kill with their beaks instead of their talons.\n\n\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Tyrannidae\n\nTyrant flycatchers are Passerine birds which occur throughout North and South America. They superficially resemble the Old World flycatchers, but are more robust and have stronger bills. They do not have the sophisticated vocal capabilities of the songbirds. Most are rather plain. As the name implies, most are insectivorous.\n\n\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Laniidae\n\nShrikes are passerine birds known for their habit of catching other birds and small animals and impaling the uneaten portions of their bodies on thorns. A shrike's beak is hooked, like that of a typical bird of prey.\n\n\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Vireonidae\n\nThe vireos are a group of small to medium-sized passerine birds. They are typically greenish in color and resemble wood warblers apart from their heavier bills.\n\n\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Corvidae\n\nThe family Corvidae includes crows, ravens, jays, choughs, magpies, treepies, nutcrackers, and ground jays. Corvids are above average in size among the Passeriformes, and some of the larger species show high levels of intelligence.\n\n\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Alaudidae\n\nLarks are small terrestrial birds with often extravagant songs and display flights. Most larks are fairly dull in appearance. Their food is insects and seeds.\n\n\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Hirundinidae\n\nThe family Hirundinidae is a group of passerines characterized by their adaptation to aerial feeding. These adaptations include a slender streamlined body, long pointed wings, and short bills with a wide gape. The feet are adapted to perching rather than walking, and the front toes are partially joined at the base.\n\n\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Paridae\n\nThe Paridae are mainly small stocky woodland species with short stout bills. Some have crests. They are adaptable birds, with a mixed diet including seeds and insects.\n\n\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Sittidae\n\nNuthatches are small woodland birds. They have the unusual ability to climb down trees head first, unlike other birds which can only go upwards. Nuthatches have big heads, short tails, and powerful bills and feet.\n\n\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Certhiidae\n\nTreecreepers are small woodland birds, brown above and white below. They have thin pointed down-curved bills, which they use to extricate insects from bark. They have stiff tail feathers, like woodpeckers, which they use to support themselves on vertical trees.\n\n\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Troglodytidae\n\nWrens are small and inconspicuous birds, except for their loud songs. They have short wings and thin down-turned bills. Several species often hold their tails upright. All are insectivorous.\n\n\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Polioptilidae\n\nThese dainty birds resemble Old World warblers in their structure and habits, moving restlessly through the foliage seeking insects. The gnatcatchers are mainly soft bluish gray in color and have the typical insectivore's long sharp bill. Many species have distinctive black head patterns (especially males) and long, regularly cocked, black-and-white tails.\n\n\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Cinclidae\n\nDippers are members of the genus \"Cinclus\" in the bird family Cinclidae. They are a group of perching birds named for their bobbing or dipping movements. They usually inhabit the banks of fast-moving hillside rivers, though some nest near shallow lakes.\n\n\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Regulidae\n\nThe kinglets are a small family of birds which resemble the titmice. They are very small insectivorous birds in the genus \"Regulus\". The adults have colored crowns, giving rise to their names.\n\n\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Muscicapidae\n\nThis is a large family of small passerine birds restricted to the Old World. The species below only occurs in North America as vagrants. The appearance of these birds is highly varied, but they mostly have weak songs and harsh calls.\n\n\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Turdidae\n\nThe thrushes are a group of passerine birds that occur mainly but not exclusively in the Old World. They are plump, soft plumaged, small to medium-sized insectivores or sometimes omnivores, often feeding on the ground. Many have attractive songs.\n\n\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Mimidae\n\nThe mimids are a family of passerine birds that includes thrashers, mockingbirds, tremblers, and the New World catbirds. These birds are notable for their vocalization, especially their remarkable ability to mimic a wide variety of birds and other sounds heard outdoors. The species tend towards dull grays and browns in their appearance.\n\n\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Sturnidae\n\nStarlings are small to medium-sized passerine birds. They are medium-sized passerines with strong feet. Their flight is strong and direct and they are very gregarious. Their preferred habitat is fairly open country, and they eat insects and fruit. Plumage is typically dark with a metallic sheen.\n\n\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Bombycillidae\n\nThe waxwings are a group of birds with soft silky plumage and unique red tips to some of the wing feathers. In the Bohemian and cedar waxwings, these tips look like sealing wax and give the group its name. These are arboreal birds of northern forests. They live on insects in summer and berries in winter.\n\n\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Passeridae\n\nOld World sparrows are small passerine birds. In general, sparrows tend to be small plump brownish or grayish birds with short tails and short powerful beaks. Sparrows are seed eaters, but they also consume small insects.\n\n\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Motacillidae\n\nThe Motacillidae are a family of small passerine birds with medium to long tails. They include the wagtails, longclaws, and pipits. They are slender, ground-feeding insectivores of open country.\n\n\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Fringillidae\n\nFinches are seed-eating passerine birds that are small to moderately large and have a strong beak, usually conical and in some species very large. All have twelve tail feathers and nine primaries. These birds have a bouncing flight with alternating bouts of flapping and gliding on closed wings, and most sing well.\n\n\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Calcariidae\n\nThe Calcariidae are a group of passerine birds that were traditionally grouped with the New World sparrows, but differ in a number of respects and are usually found in open grassy areas.\n\n\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Passerellidae\n\nUntil 2017, these species were considered part of the family Emberizidae. Most of the species are known as sparrows, but these birds are not closely related to the Old World sparrows which are in the family Passeridae. Many of these have distinctive head patterns.\n\n\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Icteriidae\n\nThis species was historically placed in the wood-warblers (Parulidae) but nonetheless most authorities were unsure if it belonged there. It was placed in its own family in 2017.\n\n\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Icteridae\n\nThe icterids are a group of small to medium-sized, often colorful passerine birds restricted to the New World and include the grackles, New World blackbirds, and New World orioles. Most species have black as a predominant plumage color, often enlivened by yellow, orange, or red.\n\n\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Parulidae\n\nThe wood-warblers are a group of small, often colorful, passerine birds restricted to the New World. Most are arboreal, but some like the ovenbird and the two waterthrushes, are more terrestrial. Most members of this family are insectivores.\n\n\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Cardinalidae\n\nThe Cardinalidae are a family of robust seed-eating birds with strong bills. They are typically associated with open woodland. The sexes usually have distinct plumages.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2010867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010867", "title": "Potassium peroxide", "text": "Potassium peroxide\n\nPotassium peroxide is an inorganic compound with the molecular formula KO. It is formed as potassium reacts with oxygen in the air, along with potassium oxide (KO) and potassium superoxide (KO).\n\nPotassium peroxide reacts with water to form potassium hydroxide and oxygen:\n"}
{"id": "2010873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010873", "title": "Drosia", "text": "Drosia\n\nDrosia (, meaning \"dew\", before 1947: Ρωσσοχώρι - \"Rossochori\") is a suburban town in Attica, Greece. Since the 2011 local government reform it is part of the municipality Dionysos, of which it is a municipal unit. \n\nDrosia is a mainly residential suburb, known for its location in the midst of evergreen pine forests. During the extreme heat of Greek summers, many Athenians drive up to Drosia on the weekends, seeking cool and shade in the taverns, cafes and one outdoor cinema theater, for which the area is known.\n\nDrosia is situated in the hills in the northeastern part of the Athens conurbation, at about 370 m elevation. The municipal unit has an area of 2.201 km. It lies at the northwestern foot of the Penteliko Mountain. It is 1 km southwest of Stamata, 3 km northeast of Ekali, 3 km south of Agios Stefanos and 19 km northeast of Athens city centre. Its built-up area is continuous with those of the neighbouring suburbs Stamata, Rodopoli, Dionysos and Ekali. Greek National Road 83 (Athens - Marathon - Rafina) passes through Drosia.\n\nA former rural village, Drosia started growing with the arrival of refugees from Pontus after the Greco-Turkish War of 1919-1922. Originally named \"Rossochori\", it was renamed to \"Drosia\" in 1947. It was part of the community of Stamata until 1950, when it became a separate community.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2010877", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010877", "title": "Bryan Baptiste", "text": "Bryan Baptiste\n\nBryan J. Baptiste (October 15, 1955 – June 22, 2008) was an American politician and member of the Republican Party. He served as mayor of the County of Kauai in Hawaii from 2002 until his death.\n\nBaptiste was born in Lihue, Kauai. Baptiste was a descendant of Portuguese immigrants who settled in Hawaii. He came from a family that has long been involved in politics on Kauai, including his father, who was chair of the former Kauai county board of supervisors, a position equivalent to mayor today.\n\nIn 1996, Baptiste, then manager of the Kaua'i War Memorial Convention Hall and head of an islandwide park beautification program, was elected to the Kaua'i County Council. Baptiste served as a member of the council for six years before running for mayor to succeed Republican Maryanne Kusaka, who was ineligible to run again due to term limits. In the 2002 mayoral election, Baptiste faced two fellow councilmembers, Democrats Ron Kouchi and Randal Valenciano. In the September primary election, Baptiste received 38% of the vote, Kouchi received 35%, and Valenciano won 21%, allowing Baptiste and Kouchi to advance to the runoff. In the runoff Baptiste defeated Kouchi, winning 12,174 votes to Kouchi's 10,517.\n\nIn 2006, Baptiste avoided a runoff by two votes (he needed fifty percent of the vote plus one vote to win), joking, \"We had one vote more than we needed to win. That's the cushion.\"\nBaptiste died while in office of a heart attack on June 22, 2008. He was succeeded by his former deputy, Bernard Carvalho, who won a special election to complete Baptiste's term.\n\nBaptiste has since been memorialized with the Kapa'a New Town Park Facility renamed in his honor, following a million dollar upgrade of park facilities, including the installation of new lighting systems, locker rooms, and grass strips for the football field, improvements that Baptiste had long advocated for. He is survived by his wife Annette and their four children.\n"}
{"id": "2010881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010881", "title": "Southern California Bight", "text": "Southern California Bight\n\nThe Southern California Bight is the curved coastline of Southern California from Point Conception to San Diego. The area includes the Channel Islands and part of the Pacific Ocean. Native Americans occupied the Southern California Bight before the arrival of Spanish explorers in the 16th century. This region is known for having a climate similar to that of the Mediterranean with similar weather patterns consisting of rainy winters and dry summers. The Southern California Bight has a thriving ecosystem that is home to many species of plant life, fish, birds, and mammals.\n\nIn 1513, there were an estimated 700,000 Native Americans living in the region making it the most populated area of North America. In 1542, Juan Rodríguez Cabrillo of Spain and his crew were the first European explorers to land on this coastal region in the present day San Diego Bay. The first permanent European settlers of the Southern California Bight led by Juan Pérez arrived in 1769 on the \"San Antonio\". The Spanish government had planned a three-part occupation plan to check the Russians’ settlement in Alta California. The Chumash Indian tribe occupied the coastal region of Southern California for thousands of years prior to the arrival of international explorers.\n\nIn 2013-14, scientists witnessed the largest die-off of sea stars ever recorded along the Pacific Coast. The outbreak of sea star wasting disease caused significant changes to the ecosystem as sea stars are a keystone species that plays an important role in controlling the numbers of other creatures.\n\nThe climate of the region that constitutes the Southern California Bight is consistent throughout the area. There is a difference in monthly mean temperature of 10 °C between the cities of Los Angeles and San Diego. Most precipitation in this coastal area takes place in the months of December, January, and February with a monthly mean rate of 2.0-3.3in.\n\nThe Southern California Bight acts as a transition between many different water masses, including the Pacific subarctic, Pacific equatorial, and the North Pacific central water masses. Due to its central location, the fish fauna includes species native to these other water masses. A total of 481 species of California marine fish, 195 species of birds, and seven species of pinnipeds inhabit the Southern California Bight.\n\nPhytoplankton serve an important role in the Southern Californian coastal ecosystem. These single-celled organisms are the main food source for zooplankton and help support the fish population. In doing so, they help establish a stable food chain for all the animals in the coastal region. Since the population of fish is directly related to the production of phytoplankton, the growth in phytoplankton numbers increases the yield of local fisheries.\n\nBasking sharks (Cetorhinus maximus) are being studied through a research program begun in 2009 by NOAA.\n\nCommon fish found in the epipelagic zone include:\n\nCommon fish found in the neritic zone include:\nCommon fish found in the rocky intertidal zone include:\nMany different species of fish rely on the kelp forests as a source of life. Populations of fish are larger in areas with a higher concentration of kelp. Fish that live in and rely on kelp forests include kelp surfperch (\"Brachyistius frenatus\"), kelp bass (\"Paralabrax clathratus\"), giant kelpfish (\"Heterostichus rostratus\"), and kelp rockfish (\"Sebastes atrovirens\"). A study conducted near San Luis Obispo, California showed that when kelp was removed from a nearby reef, fish biomass declined by 63%. Juvenile fish rely on kelp beds a nursery grounds. Southern California Edison built a off San Clemente in 2008.\n\nThe Southern California Bight is home to 195 species of birds, including endangered species such as the light-footed clapper rail (\"Rallus longirostris levipes\").\nSome birds nest and hunt near bodies of waters, such as bays, harbors, and oceans, including areas where kelp grows. Some species, such as the brown pelican and some species of cormorants commonly dive head first into the water, attempting to catch fish. Other species of birds, such as grebes and loons migrate from Baja California over the nearshore waters, and will stop to fish and feed. Birds that live in the rocky shore have adapted to finding food, and specialize in prying grabbing prey that clings to the rocky shore. Common birds of the rocky seashore include black oystercatchers (\"Haemotopus bachmani\"), wandering tattlers (\"Heteroscelus incanus\"), and Surfbirds (\"Aphorize virgata\"). Other birds, such as sandpipers, egrets, and herons utilize tidal patterns, venturing out to rocks during low tide in hopes of catching prey. Non-seabirds also nest on rocky seashore surfaces. Peregrine falcons and ravens are known to nest on remote sea cliffs. Sandy beaches are inhabited by plovers, terns, marbled godwits (\"Limosa fedoa\"), and several species of gulls.\n\nDue to its central location of warm and cool ocean currents, the Southern California Bight sees a wide variety of marine mammals. Some reside here regularly, some pass through on migratory routes, and others only show up to utilize a certain food source. The Marine Mammal Protection Act and Endangered Species Act helped to prevent any marine mammal \"take\", which entails hunting, harassing, exploiting marine mammals for their pelt, meat, oil, etc.\n\nThe most abundant pinnipeds in the Southern California Bight are the California sea lions. Northern elephant seals are known to have breeding grounds in the Southern California Bight, mostly on San Miguel and San Nicolas islands. Sea otters were once common in the Southern California Bight, but due to hunting, they have since mostly retreated to northern waters. Otter sightings in the Southern California Bight happen rarely.\n\nBlue whales use the Southern California Bight as a part of their migratory routes. They leave Baja California by early summer, and are usually present in the Southern California Bight in June. Gray whales also pass through the Southern California Bight on their migration routes, typically migrating very close to land. They pass through the Southern California Bight on their southbound route from December through February towards Baja California, and return northbound towards southern Alaska, passing the Southern California Bight from February to May. Their migration patterns are among the longest of any mammal, spanning over 10,000 miles. The common dolphin is the most abundant cetacean in the Southern California Bight. Common dolphins typically appear in the Southern California Bight during years with warmer water, and are more abundant in the summer and winter.\n\nThe Southern California Bight is characterized by coastal and offshore oil reserves. For the past century, the offshore areas of coastal cities such as Goleta, Santa Monica, and Huntington Beach have been home to oil extraction sites. With the presence of these oil reserves comes the construction of relative infrastructure including pipelines. \nOther primary resources that come from the Southern California Bight region include anchovies, sardines, mackerel, and bass. The thriving marine life and accessible seafood source has led to the development of harbors and marinas all across the Southern California coast.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2010889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010889", "title": "Housesitter", "text": "Housesitter\n\nHousesitter is a 1992 American romantic comedy film directed by Frank Oz, written by Mark Stein, and starring Steve Martin and Goldie Hawn. The premise involves a woman with con-artist tendencies who worms her way into the life of a reserved architect by claiming to be his wife.\n\nNewton Davis (Steve Martin) is a struggling architect. After building his dream house for himself and his longtime girlfriend Becky (Dana Delany) in his hometown, he is crushed when she refuses to marry him. He is unable to bring himself to live in the house, and leaves it abandoned and with a debt he cannot afford. Some time later, Newton meets a waitress named Gwen (Goldie Hawn) at a Hungarian restaurant in Boston. Believing that she cannot speak English, he spills out his sob story about Becky and the abandoned house. After the restaurant closes for the night, Newton learns she merely pretended to be Hungarian, and can speak English. He walks her home, which turns out to be a small apartment upstairs at the restaurant. They end up having sex.\n\nThe next morning, Gwen finds that Newton left in the middle of the night. However, he unintentionally left behind the drawing of the house he'd built for Becky. Interest piqued by the drawing, Gwen takes a bus ride out to see the house. She is charmed by it, and decides to move in. Gwen goes to the town's general store, where she charges her groceries to the \"Newton Davis\" account. When questioned about this, Gwen, who it becomes clear is a natural liar, says that she is Newton's wife. Gwen meets Becky, and spins a lengthy romantic story about how they fell in love, which surprises and impresses Becky. Gwen also meets Newton's parents, who are heartbroken that Newton got \"married\" without telling them, but Gwen manages to smooth things over with them with her charm.\n\nSoon after, Newton travels to his hometown and is shocked to see that his house is lived in. When he finds out what Gwen has done he is initially furious, but he soon sees the potential in her being there. Gwen starts creating all sorts of opportunities for Newton: mending his relationship with his parents, helping out with his career by befriending Newton's boss and highlighting his long-ignored talent, and making Becky jealous. Newton and Gwen come to an agreement in which Gwen will help Newton win Becky, and in return she'll get all the furniture in the house. Through their time together, Newton begins to rely more on Gwen beyond their agreement, and Gwen starts to feel attached to her life with Newton. It is also revealed that Gwen became a compulsive liar in order to escape from what she feels is her own inadequate background, and that she has \"changed\" her life numerous times.\n\nThe film culminates with a reception held at the house in which the sub-plots of Newton's career, family and affections for Becky are brought together. Annoyed with Becky for her superior and suspicious attitude, Gwen confronts her in front of everyone, accusing her of trying to win Newton back. Gwen storms out of the house in tears, and Newton follows her, thinking it is still part of the plan. Outside alone, Newton praises Gwen for her brilliance, but Gwen replies that she wanted their marriage to work. Her feelings for him are apparent. Newton's boss gives him the promotion. Newton watches, confused, as Gwen leaves. Becky takes the opportunity to make a move on Newton, and asks whether all of Gwen's elaborate stories were real. Newton answers that they were all true and chases after Gwen.\n\nNewton stops Gwen as she is about to board a bus to leave town. Although she resists, Newton follows her example and begins telling an outlandish romantic story of something they \"did\", which makes Gwen decide to stay. The film ends on the note of Newton and Gwen being happily married and living together in the house. As Newton and Gwen go into the house to have sex, the final spoken words are of Newton saying \"I love you, Gwen\" and Gwen replying, \"Actually, it's Jessica.\"\n\n\nAccording to Rotten Tomatoes, the house featured in the film was designed by New York architects Trumbull & Associates. Christopher Lukenbeal's 1995 master's thesis \"A Geography in Film, A Geography of Film\" cites Debra Wassman of Trumbull: \"the house is the real star of the film\". The 1800-square-foot, three-bedroom home won the House Beautiful/American Wood Council Award for Best Small House of 1990 and blueprints were available for purchase from Princeton Architectural Press.\n\nThe role of Gwen Phillips was initially offered to Meg Ryan, who pulled out due to creative differences.\n\n\"Housesitter\" received mixed to negative reviews from critics, as it holds a 37% rating on Rotten Tomatoes based on 19 reviews. Noted film critic Roger Ebert, gave it three stars saying, \"this is one of [Goldie Hawn's] best performances\" and praised her and Steve Martin's impeccable comic timing.\n\nThe film was released theatrically on June 12, 1992, and performed reasonably well for a low-key comedy film. It earned $9,106,950 on its opening weekend and $58,500,635 for its entire theatrical run, with $94,900,635 worldwide.\n\nThe film was released on DVD on July 22, 1998 and eventually on Blu-ray on April 16, 2019.\n\n"}
{"id": "2010892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010892", "title": "Ottawa Memorial", "text": "Ottawa Memorial\n\nThe Ottawa Memorial is a monument in Ottawa, Ontario, that \"commemorates by name almost 800 men and women who lost their lives while serving or training with the Air Forces of the Commonwealth in Canada, the West Indies and the United States and who have no known grave. \" Located on Sussex Drive overlooking the Ottawa River near the Rideau Falls, the monument was unveiled in 1959 by Elizabeth II, Queen of Canada. It is maintained by the Commonwealth War Graves Commission.\nDuring the Second World War, 798 men and women killed with Commonwealth air forces in or over Canadian territory.\n\nThe memorial lists the names, ranks and nations of origin of almost 800 service personnel, ordered by the year of their death, on two semi-circular walls that surround a small pool containing a sculpture of the world with an eagle perched on top. Plaques in English and French contain the following text:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2010896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010896", "title": "Killer Moth", "text": "Killer Moth\n\nKiller Moth (Drury Walker) is a fictional supervillain appearing in comic books published by DC Comics, commonly as an adversary of Batman. Killer Moth originally wore a garish costume of purple and green striped fabric, with an orange cape and a moth-like mask.\n\nKiller Moth first appeared in \"Batman\" #63 (February 1951) and was created by Bill Finger, Dick Sprang, and Lew Schwartz.\n\nThe original Killer Moth was a prisoner identified only by his prison number, 234026. While in prison, he reads a newspaper article about Batman and decides to set himself up as the \"anti-Batman\", hiring himself out to Gotham City's criminals to help them elude capture by police. Upon his release, he uses the hidden proceeds of his crimes to build a \"Mothcave\", modeled on the photos of the Batcave in the newspaper article he read.\n\nKiller Moth also establishes a false identity as millionaire philanthropist Cameron van Cleer. In this guise, he becomes friends with Bruce Wayne. Meanwhile, he promotes himself to Gotham's criminals using his identity as Killer Moth, giving them each an infra-red Moth-Signal. In his first job, he rescues some criminals from the police and then uses his Mothmobile to defeat and capture Batman and Robin. The duo escape and lead Killer Moth to a climactic battle on Gotham Bridge, in which he is defeated.\n\nIn his third appearance (\"Detective Comics\" #173 (July 1951)) Killer Moth kidnaps Bruce Wayne and learns his secret identity. However, he is shot by other criminals and the resultant cranial injury causes amnesia. He remains a persistent enemy through the Silver Age of Comic Books, being the first villain Batgirl encounters in \"Detective Comics\" #359 (January 1967). He teams up with the Cavalier twice: the first time in \"Batman Family\" #10 (March-April 1977), where they battle Batgirl and Batwoman (Kathy Kane, who comes out of retirement for the first time in years) and the second (and final) time in \"Batman Family\" #15 (December 1977-January 1978), where they battle Batgirl and Robin.\n\nIn the 1990s, in the Post-\"Crisis\" continuity, Killer Moth's real identity is revealed as Drury Walker, an unsuccessful criminal who no one takes seriously. He again adopts the false identity of Cameron van Cleer and the persona of Killer Moth to fight Batman. This version first appears in \"\" #7-9 (December 1992-February 1993), with a more detailed origin story appearing in \"\" #1-9 (February-October 2003).\n\nIn \"Batman: Shadow of the Bat\", Killer Moth sets up a team called \"the Misfits\", comprising Batman villains such as Catman and Calendar Man, to make another kidnapping attempt on Bruce Wayne, as well as other prominent citizens. This team proves unsuccessful, turning against the Moth when they realize he plans to kill the hostages.\n\nHe is one of the villains who sells their souls to the demon Neron in \"Underworld Unleashed\" #1 (November 1995) and in \"Robin\" #23-24 (December 1995-January 1996), where he asks to become feared instead of always being laughed at. He is metamorphosed into a carnivorous moth-like monster called Charaxes. As Charaxes, Walker resembles a vaguely humanoid, giant brown moth. He consumes humans and spins cocoons in which to keep his prey.\n\nIn a later story, Charaxes begins laying hundreds of eggs, all of which hatch into duplicates of Drury Walker. Charaxes despises his progeny, but is unable to destroy them. Following his capture, these duplicates are taken into government custody. During an argument between various bodies as to what should be done with them, they attack a scientist and are killed.\n\nAt around the same time, Oracle is confronted by a criminal named Danko Twag who claims to be the \"real\" Killer Moth (the one she had defeated), and that Drury Walker had been an impostor. During a rant in which he claims they are going to be a team, she captures him in an energy cell and he seemingly disintegrates himself.\n\nIn \"Infinite Crisis\", Charaxes is killed by being ripped in half by Superboy-Prime during the Battle of Metropolis.\n\nIn order to ensure the existence of Batman, Rip Hunter tells Booster Gold and Skeets that they have to make sure Wiley Dalbert, a time-travelling criminal who had hired Killer Moth, completes his crime successfully. Booster does this by dressing up as Killer Moth and taking his place. During the robbery, he is forced to fight with Batman and Robin and takes them both down. An unfortunate, unintended side effect of this is that, when they return to the present, Gotham still has no Batman and Killer Moth is now a serious threat, thanks to the \"street cred\" from the robbery. Booster, Skeets and his sister Goldstar attempt to fix the anomaly they created by taking Batman's place in the robbery, but things go wrong when Alfred Pennyworth intervenes; the Time Masters barely escape in the Batmobile. Instead they steal Batgirl's costume and purchase an Elvis costume for Booster. Booster stops the version of him dressed as Killer Moth from defeating Batman and makes sure that Wiley gets away with the loot, thus restoring the timeline.\n\nDuring the \"Adventure Comics\" series' \"Blackest Night\" tie-in story, Charaxes is reanimated as a member of the Black Lantern Corps. Superboy-Prime destroys Charaxes on Earth Prime, using the black ring cycling through the power set, resulting in a burst of coloured energy that destroys Black Lanterns..\n\nIn \"The New 52\", a more serious, less garish Drury Walker-Killer Moth appears as an enemy of Green Arrow. This version preferring the title \"Moth\" utilizes a gas mask and a compression gun which he calls a \"Stinger\". Moth later appeared as a member of Richard Dragon's Longbow Hunters.\n\nIn \"DC Rebirth\", Killer Moth is again Drury Walker, a low-level criminal sporting a purple outfit and helmet. He first appeared in the \"Zero Year\" story arc in which he was defeated by both Batman and Green Arrow, teaming up for the first time..\n\nA new Killer Moth appears in \"Batman\" #652, during the \"\" storyline wherein he displays competence in hand-to-hand combat and the ability of flight when facing Robin. He later appears working alongside fellow Gotham criminals Firefly and Lock-Up in the \"Gotham Underground\" limited series. The identity and origins of this new Killer Moth remain unrevealed.\n\nSeveral villains clad in Killer Moth costumes appear in \"Secret Six\" (vol. 3) #7. At least one of them is killed by Deadshot.\n\nKiller Moth recently appeared in the first issue of the mini-series \"\". He was hired by Prometheus to kidnap and torture Mike Dante, ex-assistant to Atom ally Professor Hyatt. The two current holders of the Atom identity, Ray Palmer and Ryan Choi, tracked Killer Moth and his goons down to a hideout in Albuquerque, New Mexico and defeated them all. Ray Palmer then tortured Killer Moth by entering his head via the nasal pathways and growing inside his skull. Killer Moth immediately gave up Prometheus as his employer.\n\nIn \"Red Robin\" #9, Red Robin returns to Gotham City where he runs into Killer Moth in his classic costume, holding a man at gunpoint. Red Robin thinks to himself \"I think this is Killer Moth. The costume and the man change from time to time, so you can never really tell.\". This Killer Moth seems to be scared and on the run, stating \"Are you with him? Are you with the Atom? I won't let you torture me, too!\".\n\nIn his original incarnation, Killer Moth has no superhuman abilities; he relies on the vast array of equipment he has developed. Killer Moth’s range of gimmicks includes a Mothmobile, a Moth-Signal, and a steel line, which allows him to swing through the skies as if he were flying. He carries a cocoon gun that fires a stream of sticky threads that can totally envelop a victim. The gun can also fire a grenade.\n\nAs Charaxes, he has superhuman strength, agility and endurance, an exoskeleton that gives him some protection from physical and energy attacks, a set of wings that allows him to fly, sharp claws and sharp, prehensile antennae. Charaxes secretes a sticky acidic substance that can trap the strongest of men and dissolve their bodies.\n\nIn \"DC Rebirth\", he uses a highly compressed air gun to great effect as a weapon, shown to be powerful enough to stop a bullet in mid-air.\n\nIn \"Teen Titans Go!\" comic book series, Killer Moth was the second villain to arrive at the tower for the Titans' Party Party and informed them that he only attended to spend more time with Silkie. Throughout the party, he cuddled with the mutant moth larvae until Robin ordered all villains to leave, including Killer Moth. Killer Moth attacked Jump City and told the Titans they were outmatched. He noticed Cyborg, who had been disguised, and asked about his identity. Beast Boy lied that he was their brand new Killer Robot Titan and asked Killer Moth if he wanted to see how he fared against one. The villain, however, immediately left.\n\nIn \"\"'s prequel comic, after the events of \"\", following the defeat of Black Mask, Drury Walker checked out books from Barbara Gordon at the local library about moths and staked out her and her father, the newly promoted Commissioner Gordon, which Barbara noticed. Later, at a GCPD panel that proved Batman was simply a man with gadgets instead of some 'paranormal entity', Killer Moth crashed it to advertise his services with a free trial of killing Commissioner Gordon while his henchmen kept Batman preoccupied on the other side of Gotham. Barbara quickly put on the sample Batman costume, managed to defeat Killer Moth's henchmen, and disarmed the villain. After he realized that his plans were falling apart, Killer Moth threw Gordon off the rafters to kill him and used that as a diversion for his escape. As Barbara saved her father, Drury made his escape, and tried to calm himself down by saying that Batgirl was just a girl in a suit, like Batman, who happened to arrive just in time and subdued him.\n\nKiller Moth appears in the prequel comic to \"Injustice 2\". Following the events of the first game, Killer Moth is shown to be a member of this universe's Suicide Squad, but after an impostor Batman (later revealed to be Jason Todd) surprisingly appears and takes control of the Squad, he kills Killer Moth using the bomb implanted in his neck, considering him to be useless.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2010901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010901", "title": "2005–06 United States network television schedule", "text": "2005–06 United States network television schedule\n\nThe following is the 2005–06 network television schedule for the six major English language commercial broadcast networks in the United States. The schedule covers primetime hours from September 2005 through August 2006. The schedule is followed by a list per network of returning series, new series, and series cancelled after the 2004–05 season. All times are Eastern and Pacific, with certain exceptions, such as \"Monday Night Football\".\n\nThis would be the final season of broadcasting for both UPN and The WB. They would merge to form The CW next season. The famous \"Monday Night Football\" would move to ESPN from ABC after the 2005 NFL season ended with Super Bowl XL\n\nNew series are highlighted in bold.\n\nEach of the 30 highest-rated shows is listed with its rank and rating as determined by Nielsen Media Research.\n\nPBS, the Public Broadcasting Service, was in operation, but is not included because member stations have local flexibility over most of their schedules and broadcast times for network shows may vary.\n\nFrom February 10 to 26, 2006, all of NBC's primetime programming was preempted in favor of coverage of the 2006 Winter Olympics in Turin.\n\nNOTE: On January 9, 2006, ABC aired Emily's Reasons Why Not and Jake in Progress at 9pm and 9:30pm ET. A few days later, ABC cancelled Emily's Reasons Why Not, took Jake in Progress off the schedule and replace the shows with the previous week's episode of The Bachelor: Paris.\n\nReturning series\nNew series\nCanceled/Ended\nReturning series\nNew series\nCanceled/Ended\nReturning series\nNew series\nCanceled/Ended\nReturning series\nNew series\nCanceled/Ended\nReturning series\nNew series\nCanceled/Ended\n\nReturning series\nNew series\nCanceled/Ended\n\nABC\n\nCBS\n\nThe CW\n\nFox\n\nNBC\n\nABC\n\nCBS\n\nFox\n\nNBC\n\nUPN\n\nThe WB\n"}
{"id": "2010907", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010907", "title": "Blood and Black Lace", "text": "Blood and Black Lace\n\nBlood and Black Lace () is a 1964 giallo film directed by Mario Bava.\n\nBava co-wrote the screenplay with Giuseppe Barilla and Marcello Fondato. The film stars Cameron Mitchell and Eva Bartok. The story concerns the stalking and brutal murders of various scantily-clad fashion models, committed by a masked killer in a desperate attempt to obtain a scandal-revealing diary.\n\nThe film is generally considered one of the earliest and most influential of all \"gialli\" films and served as a stylistic template for the \"body count\" slasher films of the 1980s. Tim Lucas said that the film inspired \"legions of contemporary filmmakers, from Dario Argento to Martin Scorsese to Quentin Tarantino.\" In 2004, one of its sequences was voted No. 85 in \"The 100 Scariest Movie Moments\" by the Bravo TV network.\n\nIsabella, one of many beautiful models employed at a fashion house, is walking through the grounds that lead to the establishment one night when she is attacked and violently killed by an assailant wearing a white featureless mask. Police Inspector Sylvester is assigned to investigate the murder and he interviews Max Morlan, the manager who co-manages the salon with his lover, the recently widowed Countess Christina Como. Max attests that he cannot provide any information whatsoever to assist the inspector, but as the investigation continues all of the fashion house's various indiscretions, including corruption, abortions, blackmail and drug addiction, begin to come to light. It is revealed that Isabella had kept a diary detailing these vices, and suddenly almost every employee becomes nervous.\n\nNicole finds the diary, and she promises to provide it to the police, but Peggy manages to steal it from her purse during work. That night, Nicole drives to an antique store owned by her paramour, Frank. He is not there, and while inside she suddenly finds herself stalked by a black clad figure, who had apparently been waiting for her. She gets to the front entrance door but is grabbed from behind by the masked individual, who raises and slams a spiked glove into her face, killing her instantly. The murderer searches the corpse and her purse for the diary. When it becomes clear that she did not have it, the killer runs out of the shop.\n\nThe murderer next visits Peggy's apartment. The killer gains entrance simply by knocking on the front door, and when Peggy opens it, the masked figure abruptly walks inside. The assailant slaps and hits her repeatedly, and she explains that she no longer has the diary and had in fact burned it in the fireplace. When her attacker checks the fireplace to see if she has told the truth, she tries to pick up a telephone to call for help. Enraged, the murderer hits her repeatedly in the face until she is knocked unconscious. The assailant then carries her away just as the police arrive.\n\nPeggy is taken to another location and tied to a chair. The killer tortures her, demanding to know where the diary is. The woman reaches up and knocks off the mask. The shocked girl recognizes her assailant, who proceeds to kill her brutally by slowly pressing her face against the red-hot surface of a burning furnace.\n\nInspector Sylvester is convinced that the murderer is one of the men employed at the fashion house, so he arrests all of those he believes might be related to the deaths. However, while the suspects are in custody, Greta discovers Peggy's corpse hidden in the trunk of her car, and is then attacked and smothered to death by the killer. After discovering the bodies of the latest victims, Sylvester releases all of the men.\n\nMax visits Christina and reminds her about how he had assisted in the murder of her husband. Isabella had found out that Max had been involved in the crime, and began blackmailing him. When she started asking for more and more money, Max murdered her. It was only later that Max and Christina realized she had been keeping a diary that revealed everything. While attempting to retrieve the diary, Max had also killed Nicole and Peggy. When Max and the other men from the agency were placed under arrest, Christina had murdered Greta to give Max an alibi for the previous killings. Now, Max tells Christina that he once again needs her help and convinces her that after only one more death they will be safe. That night, the voluptuous Tilde is drowned in her bathtub by the masked killer who, immediately after the murder, removes the mask and is revealed as Christina. She uses a razor blade to slice the corpse's wrists in order to make the death seem like a suicide. Christina prepares to leave the victim's apartment when she is interrupted by a knocking sound on the front door followed by the loud voice of a man identifying himself as the police. She decides to escape out the second story window and then tries to climb down a drainpipe, which falls under her weight, slamming her to the ground.\n\nLater that night, Max searches through Christina's desk, looking for money and documents. Suddenly, a bloody and bruised Christina enters the room, shakily holding a gun aimed directly at Max. Max had been the \"policeman\" knocking on Tilde's door, and, knowing how Christina would attempt to escape, he had deliberately broken the drainpipe in such a way that it would be guaranteed to collapse. He attempts to persuade his lover and almost succeeds in getting her to hand over the gun, but she abruptly changes her mind and shoots him to death. The mortally wounded Christina collapses next to Max's corpse.\n\n\nMario Bava's \"Black Sunday\" (1960) and \"Black Sabbath\" (1963) were worldwide commercial successes. As a consequence, Bava was given creative control over \"Blood and Black Lace\". An Italian-West German co-production, the film's backers were expecting a routine murderer-on-the-loose yarn in the Edgar Wallace tradition. In Europe during the early 1960s, movies based on the murder mystery novels of the incredibly prolific Wallace had become a mini-genre of their own. Forty or so of these movies were made, most of them produced in West Germany. Although some of the murder sequences could be vicious, the emphasis was on the police procedural and mystery aspects of the narrative.\n\nBava was \"bored by the mechanical nature of the whodunit\" and decided to deemphasize the more accepted clichés of the genre. The stalk-and-kill sequences themselves were given more importance than all other concerns. He emphasized horror and sex in ways that had usually only been hinted at before. Under the working title of \"L'atelier della morte\" (\"The Fashion House of Death\"), the movie was filmed in Rome during a six-week period between November 1963 and January 1964. The exterior locations of the fashion house were filmed at the Villa Sciarra and not at the Villa Pamphili as incorrectly reported by many sources. The film's budget was low, approximately $150,000. Bava was forced to improvise numerous times during the production in order to get the technical results he wanted. Cameron Mitchell noted that in order to film an impressive dolly shot through the fashion house, Bava simply placed the camera on a child's red wagon. Similarly, Bava completed several crane shots by utilizing a \"makeshift seesaw contraption.\"\n\n\"Blood and Black Lace\" was written in English in order to allow for easier exportation to the United States; all of the film's cast members spoke their lines in English, some of them phonetically. Actress Mary Arden found the translated script to be too stilted, and subsequently wrote the dialogue as it appears in the film as a favor for Bava and the producers. Two separate English dub tracks for the film were created: the original version was directed by actor Mel Welles in Rome, and featured most of the English-speaking actors, including Mitchell, Eva Bartok and Arden, reprising their onscreen roles; Welles dubbed Thomas Reiner and several other actors. Now believed to be lost, this track was rejected for American distribution by the Woolner Brothers, who commissioned a second dub track that was produced in Los Angeles under the supervision of Lou Moss. With the exception of Dante DiPaolo (who looped his own lines), most of the male voices for the second dub, including Mitchell and Reiner's, were provided by Paul Frees.\n\n\"Blood and Black Lace\" was shown in Italy on 14 March 1964 and on 7 April 1965 in the United States.\nIn Italy, \"Blood and Black Lace\" was a box office failure, grossing only 123 million lire (approximately US $77,000), earning back only half of the production cost. It was subsequently nearly forgotten and became difficult to see in that country until a 1999 home video release. In West Germany, the film was a moderate financial success and helped convince the backers to film their subsequent Edgar Wallace-styled whodunits in color.\n\nBecause of the film's titillating combination of near-naked women and gory murder, American International Pictures passed on releasing \"Blood and Black Lace\", despite having had commercial success with Bava's previous \"Black Sabbath\" and \"Black Sunday\". AIP felt Bava's movie was \"too intense, too adult for the 'kiddie trade.'\" The film was instead distributed in the U.S. by the Woolner Brothers (producers Lawrence and Bernard Woolner). Woolner Brothers released the movie, but with a different opening title sequence.\n\nArrow Video released the Blu-ray Disc on 21 April 2015 in the United States and 13 April in the United Kingdom.\n\nInitial reviews for \"Blood and Black Lace\" were mostly negative, with many critics panning the film's violence.\nA. H. Weiler of \"The New York Times\" complained, \"Murdering mannequins is sheer, wanton waste. And so is \"\"Blood and Black Lace,\"\" the super-gory whodunit which came out of Italy to land at neighborhood houses yesterday sporting stilted dubbed English dialogue, stark color, and grammar-school histrionics.\" \"Variety\" felt it was an \"okay mystery...handsomely produced.\" A review in the \"Monthly Film Bulletin\" declared it as Bava's \"most expensive-looking and ecorative horror film to date\" concluding that \"if this is a very good (i.e. characteristic) example of Bava's work, it is a less good example of the murder thriller genre, being derivative, for the most part poorly acted and written, and risible in its several descents into bathos.\"\n\nLeonard Maltin gave the film one and a half out of a possible four stars, criticizing the film's \"wooden script and performances\" but complimented Bava's direction, calling it \"imaginative.\"\n\nLater response for \"Blood and Black Lace\" has been mostly positive; with the film often cited as an important title in the development of the giallo film genre and is considered to be one of the major movies of the so-called \"Golden Age\" of Italian horror. On Rotten Tomatoes, the film holds an approval rating of 86% based on , with a weighted average rating of 7.43/10.\n\nAlmar Haflidason, reviewing the film for BBC Online, said that \"Director Mario Bava stages all these murders with the flair and style that was to become a founding mantle for the giallo films... Through a prowling camera style and shadow-strewn baroque sets that are illuminated only by single brilliant colours, he creates a claustrophobic paranoia that seeps into the fabric of the movie and the viewer.\" Glenn Erickson, aka \"DVD Savant\", noted \"Bava probably didn't mean to invent a subgenre with \"Blood and Black Lace\", a murder story which forgoes the slow buildups and character development of previous thrillers to concentrate almost exclusively on the killings themselves.\" Fernando F. Croce of Slant Magazine stated, \"The roots of the Hollywood slasher are often traced back to \"Blood and Black Lace\", yet Mario Bava's seminal giallo has a richness of texture and complexity of gaze that have kept its elaborate carnage scintillating even following decades of leeching from genre vultures.\"\n\n\"Blood and Black Lace\"s mixture of eroticism and violence later used as a template for both giallo and slasher films. Tim Lucas has written that \"Blood and Black Lace\" was \"one of the most influential thrillers ever made\" and \"the first authentic 'body count' movie.\"\n\"Blood and Black Lace\" has been included in multiple lists in various media outlets as one of the greatest horror films ever made.\nIt was ranked at #28 in \"Paste Magazine\"s \"50 Greatest Serial Killer Movies of All Time\". \"Paste Magazine\" would also list the film at #8 in their \"50 Best Slasher Movies of All Time\". \"Esquire\" place it at #50 in their list of \"The 55 Scariest Movies of All Time\". It was listed at #59 in \"Slant Magazine\"s \"100 Greatest Horror Films Ever Made\".\n\nBibliography\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2010916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010916", "title": "Urna", "text": "Urna\n\nIn Buddhist art and culture, the Urna (more correctly ūrṇā or ūrṇākośa (Pāli uṇṇa), and known as \"byakugō\" (白毫) in Japan) is a spiral or circular dot placed on the forehead of Buddhist images as an auspicious mark. It symbolizes a third eye, which in turn symbolizes vision into the divine world; a sort of ability to see past our mundane universe of suffering.\n\nAs set out in the \"Lakkhana Sutta\" or 'Discourse on Marks', the ūrṇā is the thirty-first physical characteristic of Buddha. It is generally thought to be a whorl of hair and be a mark or sign of the Buddha as a mahāpuruṣa or great being. The device is often seen on sculptures from the 2nd century CE.\n\n"}
{"id": "2010919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010919", "title": "New Hampshire Route 121", "text": "New Hampshire Route 121\n\nNew Hampshire Route 121 (abbreviated NH 121) is a north–south state highway in Rockingham and Hillsborough counties in southeastern New Hampshire. The road winds through the communities of Atkinson, Hampstead, Sandown, Derry, Chester, and Auburn. The southern terminus of NH 121 is at the Massachusetts state line in Plaistow, where the road, named Atkinson Depot Road, continues into the city of Haverhill as an unnumbered local road (North Main Street) leading to Route 125. The northern terminus is at a traffic circle, where NH 121 meets New Hampshire Route 28 Bypass (the Londonderry Turnpike) in eastern Manchester. At this point, the road is known as Manchester Road.\n\nNew Hampshire Route 121A (abbreviated NH 121A) is a north–south highway in Rockingham County, New Hampshire. The southern terminus of NH 121A is at the Massachusetts state line in Plaistow, where the road continues for approximately 87 yards (80 m) into Massachusetts before ending at Massachusetts Route 125, a continuation of New Hampshire Route 125 in Haverhill. Upon crossing the border, NH 121A becomes Main Street, reflecting its status as the main street of Plaistow.\n\nThe northern terminus of NH 121A is in the town of Chester at New Hampshire Route 121.\n"}
{"id": "2010928", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010928", "title": "Eugenia uniflora", "text": "Eugenia uniflora\n\nEugenia uniflora, with common names pitanga, Suriname cherry, Brazilian cherry, Cayenne cherry, or Cerisier Carré is a plant in the family Myrtaceae, native to tropical South America’s east coast, ranging from Suriname, French Guiana to southern Brazil, as well as Uruguay and parts of Paraguay and Argentina. Known as \"pitanga\" throughout Brazil and Uruguay, or \"ñangapirí\" in surrounding countries, the plant is relatively pest resistant, easy to grow and high in antioxidants. The tree is also grown in the West Indies, specifically in Haiti, where it is known as \"Cerisier Carré\", as is in French Guiana.\nThe Suriname cherry is often used in gardens as a hedge or screen. The tree was introduced to Bermuda for ornamental purposes but is now out of control and listed as an invasive species.\nIn Suriname this cherry is known as \"Monkimonki Kersie\", also \"Montjimontji Kersie\". The tree has also been introduced to Florida.\n\n\"Eugenia uniflora\" is a large shrub or small tree with a conical form, growing slowly to high. When bruised, crushed or cut, the leaves and branches have a spicy resinous fragrance, which can cause respiratory discomfort in susceptible individuals. The leaves are without stipules, ovate, glossy and held in opposite pairs. New leaves are bronze, copper or coppery-pinkish in color, maturing to a deep glossy green, up to long. During winter the leaves turn red.\n\nFlowers have four white petals and are borne on slender long stalks, with a conspicuous central cluster of white stamens ending in yellow anthers. Flowers develop into ribbed fruits long, starting out as green, then ranging through orange, scarlet and maroon as they ripen. Because the seeds are distributed by fruit-eating birds it can become a weed in suitable tropical and sub-tropical habitats, displacing native flora.\n\nThe edible fruit is a botanical berry. The taste ranges from sweet to sour, depending on the cultivar and level of ripeness (the darker red to black range is quite sweet, while the green to orange range is strikingly tart). Its predominant food use is as a flavoring and base for jams and jellies. The fruit is high in vitamin C and a source of vitamin A.\n\nThe leaves are spread on some house floors in Brazil, so that when crushed underfoot, they exude a smell which repels flies.\n\nThe leaves are also used for tea in certain parts of Uruguay.\n\n\"Eugenia uniflora\" has several significant pharmacological properties. Its essential oil is antihypertensive, antidiabetic, antitumor and analgesic, and it has shown antiviral and antifungal activity. It has performed against microorganisms such as \"Trichomonas gallinae\" (in vitro), \"Trypanosoma cruzi\" and \"Leishmania amazonensis\".\n\nIt also shows significant anti-inflammatory properties, and is used extensively as a folk remedy in South America against stomach diseases.\n\n"}
{"id": "2010934", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010934", "title": "Steve Pemberton", "text": "Steve Pemberton\n\nSteven James Pemberton (born 1 September 1967) is an English actor, comedian and writer, best known as a member of \"The League of Gentlemen\" with Reece Shearsmith, Mark Gatiss, and Jeremy Dyson. Pemberton and Shearsmith also co-wrote and appeared in the sitcom \"Psychoville\" and the comedy-drama \"Inside No. 9\". His other television credits include \"Doctor Who\", \"Benidorm\", \"Blackpool\", \"Shameless\", \"Whitechapel\", \"Happy Valley\" and \"Mapp and Lucia\".\n\nPemberton's early work centred mainly around fringe theatre; he was a founding member of the 606 Theatre with Gordon Anderson, Tom Hadley, and producer Shane Walter. He has produced, performed in, and directed various stage productions. He has written for \"Variety\" and was the assistant editor of the \"International Film Guide\" from 1991 to 1998. His TV credits include \"Whitechapel\", \"Doctor Who\", \"Benidorm\", \"Under the Greenwood Tree\", \"Hotel Babylon\", \"The Last Detective\", \"Randall and Hopkirk\", \"Blackpool\" and \"Shameless\". In 2004, he played Dr Bessner in \"Death on the Nile\" and Harry Secombe in \"The Life and Death of Peter Sellers\". He also appeared in the film \"Lassie\" (2005).\n\nPemberton is best known as being a member of the sketch comedy team \"The League of Gentlemen\", along with fellow performers Mark Gatiss, Reece Shearsmith, and co-writer Jeremy Dyson, all of whom he met at Bretton Hall College in his late teens. \"The League of Gentlemen\" initially began as a stage act in 1995, then transferred to BBC Radio 4 as \"On the Town with the League of Gentlemen\" in 1997, and finally arrived on television on BBC Two in 1999. The latter has seen Pemberton and his colleagues awarded a British Academy Television Award, a Royal Television Society Award, and a Golden Rose of Montreux.\n\nIn 2007, Pemberton made an appearance as the vicar in the film \"Mr. Bean's Holiday\". In July 2007, he took over from Bob Martin as \"Man in Chair\" in the West End production of the musical \"The Drowsy Chaperone\", playing the role until the production closed on 4 August 2007. In the 2008 English language DVD re-release of the cult 2006 Norwegian animated film \"Free Jimmy\", Pemberton voiced Mattis, a heavy-set and bizarrely-dressed biker member of the Lappish Mafia. In June 2009, \"Psychoville\" aired and marked Pemberton's return to BBC Two. It was co-written by Pemberton and his fellow League of Gentlemen member, Reece Shearsmith. Both of them play numerous characters in the series, similar to the format of \"The League of Gentlemen\".\n\nPemberton portrayed Rufus Drumknott in 2010's \"Terry Pratchett's Going Postal\". He appeared as Vice Principal Douglas Panch in the Donmar's 2011 production of \"The 25th Annual Putnam County Spelling Bee\". In 2014, he played Georgie Pillson in an adaptation of E.F. Benson's \"Mapp and Lucia\". He also wrote the adaptation, which featured his \"League of Gentlemen\" cohort Mark Gatiss. It was broadcast during Christmas 2014. Since 2014, he has starred as various characters in the dark comedy anthology series \"Inside No. 9\", which he co-created with Shearsmith, airing on BBC Two. A second series aired in 2015 and a third in 2017. A fourth series aired in early 2018\n\nPemberton reunited with his \"The League of Gentlemen\" colleagues in 2017 for three special episodes, transmitted in December 2017 on BBC2. He appeared as himself in the 2018 short film To Trend on Twitter in aid of young people with cancer charity CLIC Sargent with fellow comedians David Baddiel, Reece Shearsmith, Helen Lederer and actor Jason Flemyng. In 2020 it was announced that Pemberton will join Aaron Taylor-Johnson on West End stage in The Pillowman play, directed by Matthew Dunster.\n\nPemberton lives in North London with his girlfriend, Alison Rowles, and their three children, Lucas James, Madeleine and Adam.\n\n"}
{"id": "2010935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010935", "title": "Bank Al-Maghrib", "text": "Bank Al-Maghrib\n\nThe Bank Al-Maghrib is the central bank of the Kingdom of Morocco. It was founded in 1959 as the successor to the \"Banque d’État du Maroc\" (est. 1906). In 2008 Bank Al-Maghrib held reserves of foreign currency with an estimated worth of US$36 billion. In addition to currency management, the Bank Al-Maghrib also supervises a number of private banks supplying commercial banking services. The bank has a branch in Casablanca, and agencies in 18 other cities in Morocco. The current governor is Abdellatif Jovahri.\n\nThe bank is a member of the Alliance for Financial Inclusion and active in promoting financial inclusion policy.\n\nThe Algeciras Conference, which took place in early 1906 in Algeciras, Spain, sought a solution to the First Moroccan Crisis of 1905 between France and the German Empire, which arose as Germany attempted to prevent France from establishing a protectorate over Morocco in what was known as the Tangier Crisis.\n\nThe participants at the conference also sought to reform the Kingdom of Morocco's administration and finances, and to ensure free trade. On 7 April 1906, the representatives of 12 European countries joined Morocco and the United States of America in signing an agreement to establish the \"Banque d’État du Maroc\". The bank began operations in Tangier in February 1907 and had as its shareholders the signatories of the agreement, except for the United States.\n\nThe Banque d’État du Maroc had some of the functions of a central bank and in 1911 it started to mint silver coins (\"Hassani\"-type), and to issue banknotes. It had the right, for a 40-year term, to issue banknotes backed by gold. It had a strict cap on the spending of the Sherifian Empire, and the national banks of the German Empire, United Kingdom, France, and Spain, which guaranteed the bank's loans, appointed administrators. Spanish coinage continued to circulate. France subsequently bought out the shares of some of the founding owners to acquire majority control.\n\nBy 1919 it became impossible to maintain a fixed parity between the Hassani and the French currency, both of which were circulating in Morocco, and in October the Banque gave up the fixed exchange rate. In March 1920, the Banque demonetized the Hassani currency. Instead, it issued notes and coins denominated in the Moroccan franc. An operations account ensured that from December 1921 the Moroccan and French francs would trade at parity.\n\nIn 1946 the Banque received an extension for 20 years of its right to issue money. However, in 1958, the Moroccan government commenced negotiations with France and the Banque to reclaim for itself the right to issue money. Decree n° 1.59.233 of 30 June 1959 created the Banque du Maroc, which took over the issuance of money the next day, and replaced the Banque d'Etat du Maroc. In October, the Banque du Maroc issued a new currency, the dirham.\n\nThe Banking Act of 21 April 1967 enhanced the role of \"Banque du Maroc\", particularly in the field of banking supervision.\n\nIn 1974, the Banque du Maroc commenced issuing the centime as a fraction of the dirham, replacing the franc.\n\nIn March 1987, the bank adopted the name Bank Al-Maghrib. That same month, the bank established Dar As-Sikkah, the unit that would be responsible for printing bank notes and minting coins.\n\nA new banking act in July 1993 created a unified regulatory framework for all credit institutions. This act strengthened the Bank Al-Maghrib in its role of regulating and supervising credit institutions in Morocco. October saw the passage of amendments to the Bank's statutes that clarified its role in monetary policy, and that granted it greater autonomy.\n\nIn 2006, Law No.76-03, promulgated by Dahir No. 1-05-38 of 20th Chaoual 1426 (23 November 2005) repealed Dahir No. 1-59-233 of 23rd Hija 1378 (30 June 1959), which had created Bank Al-Maghrib. The new law reinforced Bank Al-Maghrib's independence in terms of monetary policy, and provided a legal basis for its responsibility for the payment system. The new law established the bank as a public legal entity, controlled by the account commissioner, the government commissioner, and the Court of Account. Law No.34-03 expanded the jurisdiction of the banking law over certain institutions engaged in banking activities, redefined the roles of the National Council of Credit and the Committee of Credit Establishments, reinforced Bank Al-Maghrib's autonomy in banking supervision, and instituted a number of other measures covering the protection of clients of credit institutions and the treatment of credit institutions in distress.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2010940", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010940", "title": "New Hampshire Route 122", "text": "New Hampshire Route 122\n\nNew Hampshire Route 122 (abbreviated NH 122) is a north–south highway in Hillsborough County in southeastern New Hampshire, United States. The highway runs from Amherst south to Hollis on the Massachusetts border.\n\nThe southern terminus of NH 122 is at the Massachusetts state line in Hollis, where the road continues into Massachusetts as an unnumbered local road in the town of Pepperell. The northern terminus of NH 122 is at an interchange with New Hampshire Route 101 in Amherst.\n"}
{"id": "2010943", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010943", "title": "New Hampshire Route 123", "text": "New Hampshire Route 123\n\nNew Hampshire Route 123 (abbreviated NH 123) is a secondary north–south state highway in southwestern New Hampshire. The southern terminus of the route is at the Massachusetts state line in Mason where, as Mason Road, the road continues as an unnumbered local road in the town of Townsend. The northern terminus, as signed, is at the Connecticut River, where the highway continues west for to U.S. Route 5 in Westminster, Vermont, as Vermont Route 123 (VT 123). Route logs, however, place the terminus at New Hampshire Route 12 in Walpole.\n\nIn Walpole, NH 123 runs in a wrong-way concurrency with NH 12 north–south alongside the Connecticut River, the water body that represents the border between New Hampshire and Vermont. For the entire length of the NH 12/NH 123 concurrency, NH 123 South is, in reality, heading north on the compass while NH 123 North is traveling to the south.\n\nIn October 2005, heavy flooding in the New Hampshire area forced the closure of NH 123 in two different locations. The first was at the intersection of NH 123 and Cold River Road near Drewsville, where a bridge was destroyed from high water in the Cold River, approximately east of North Walpole. The second closure was approximately south of the junction with New Hampshire Route 123A in the town of Alstead, where a section of roadway was completely washed away by the water. Both sections were subsequently rebuilt and reopened.\n\nNew Hampshire Route 123A (abbreviated NH 123A) is a designation held by two separate state highways in New Hampshire, United States. Although the two segments are not directly connected, they are linked by their parent route, New Hampshire Route 123.\n\nThe southern segment of NH 123A is a secondary rural road that runs from the town of New Ipswich to the Massachusetts border.\n\nThe southern terminus of this segment is at the Massachusetts state line in New Ipswich. At this location, the road is locally named Ashburnham Road. The road continues into Massachusetts and becomes West Road in the town of Ashby. The northern terminus is at NH 123 and New Hampshire Route 124 in New Ipswich. At this location, NH 123A is locally named Main Street.\n\nThe northern segment of NH 123A is a secondary rural east–west highway in western New Hampshire, running between the towns of Alstead and Marlow. The eastern terminus of this segment of NH 123A is at New Hampshire Route 10 in Marlow. The western terminus is at NH 123 in Alstead. The road is the only numbered state highway in the town of Acworth, and is the main road through the village of South Acworth.\n"}
{"id": "2010948", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010948", "title": "Patrice Luzi", "text": "Patrice Luzi\n\nPatrice Luzi (born 8 July 1980) is a French former professional football goalkeeper. The longest stint in his career was his three years with Liverpool, which came to an end when he was released by the Anfield club in June 2005. He then signed a contract with Belgian side R.E. Mouscron. In 2006, he moved from Mouscron to another Belgian club, Charleroi.\n\nHaving previously played for AS Monaco FC and AC Ajaccio, Luzi made his only appearance for Liverpool in January 2004 against Chelsea in a 1–0 win. His chances were limited when Liverpool brought in Southampton's Paul Jones on loan to cover Jerzy Dudek and Chris Kirkland.\n\n"}
{"id": "2010966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010966", "title": "Oxetane", "text": "Oxetane\n\nOxetane, or 1,3-propylene oxide, is a heterocyclic organic compound with the molecular formula , having a four-membered ring with three carbon atoms and one oxygen atom.\n\nThe term \"an oxetane\" or \"oxetanes\" refer to any organic compound containing the oxetane ring.\n\nA typical well-known method of preparation is the reaction of potassium hydroxide with 3-chloropropyl acetate at 150 °C:\n\nYield of oxetane made this way is c. 40%, as the synthesis can lead to a variety of by-products.\n\nOther possible reactions to form oxetane ring is the Paternò–Büchi reaction. The oxetane ring can also be formed through diol cyclization as well as through decarboxylation of a six-membered cyclic carbonate.\n\nPaclitaxel (Taxol) is an example of a natural product containing an oxetane ring. Taxol has become a major point of interest among researchers due to its unusual structure and success in the involvement of cancer treatment. The attached oxetane ring is an important feature that is used for the binding of microtubules in structure activity; however little is known about how the reaction is catalyzed in nature, which creates a challenge for scientists trying to synthesize the product.\n\n"}
{"id": "2010967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010967", "title": "New Hampshire Route 124", "text": "New Hampshire Route 124\n\nNew Hampshire Route 124 (abbreviated NH 124) is a east–west highway in southern New Hampshire, United States. It runs from Marlborough to the Massachusetts border.\n\nThe western terminus of NH 124 is in Marlborough at New Hampshire Route 101. The road continues through Marlborough, a short section of Troy and enters the northwestern part of Jaffrey. The road skirts the southern slopes of Mount Monadnock, across Jaffrey, and into Sharon. In Sharon there is an historic marker on the northern side of the road marking the site of a gate that once collected tolls for the 3rd New Hampshire Turnpike, which followed much of the present-day route of NH 124. The road enters New Ipswich and continues through that town. \n\nThe eastern terminus of NH 124 is at the Massachusetts state line in Mason. The road continues into Massachusetts as Greenville Road in the town of Townsend.\n"}
{"id": "2010971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010971", "title": "New Hampshire Route 125", "text": "New Hampshire Route 125\n\nNew Hampshire Route 125 is a north–south state highway in Rockingham, Strafford and Carroll counties in southeastern New Hampshire. The southern terminus is in Plaistow at the Massachusetts state line, where the road continues south into Haverhill as Massachusetts Route 125. The northern terminus is in Wakefield at New Hampshire Route 16 and New Hampshire Route 153.\n\nAlthough NH 125 is mostly an undivided two-lane highway, it regularly carries heavy truck and tourist traffic, especially in the summer months, when it is used as a toll-free alternative to Interstate 95 and the Spaulding Turnpike.\n\nThe Epping-Lee-Barrington section is known as the Calef Highway, named after state senator Austin L. Calef and family who owned the locally famous Calef's Country Store in Barrington. The Milton section is the southernmost part of the White Mountain Highway.\n\nThe section of NH 125 between Epping and East Barrington (the intersection with NH 9) was built on the grade of the Boston and Maine Railroad's Worcester, Nashua and Portland Division, opened by the Nashua and Rochester Railroad in 1876.\n\nCalef's County Store, a locally famous family-owned shop which first opened in 1869, is located near the intersection of NH 9 and NH 125 in Barrington.\n\nThe northern section of NH 125 between downtown Rochester and Wakefield occupies part of the original alignment of NH 16 (first designated as New England Interstate Route 16). The historic northern terminus of NH 125 was at the intersection of Columbus Avenue and South Main Street in downtown Rochester. When NH 16 was moved onto the Spaulding Turnpike in the early 1990s, the northern part of its old alignment in Rochester, as well as its entire alignment through Milton and into Wakefield, was redesignated as NH 125, extending NH 125 by over .\n\nThe NH 125 designation begins on Plaistow Road where Massachusetts Route 125 crosses the state line from Haverhill, Massachusetts, into Plaistow, New Hampshire. NH 121A also begins here and splits off as Main Street towards downtown Plaistow. NH 125 stays to the west of town and is initially a four-lane divided highway serving as the local shopping strip. After bypassing the downtown area, NH 125 crosses over NH 121A, then turns northeast and transitions into an undivided two-lane rural highway before crossing into the town of Kingston. In Kingston, NH 125 is first joined by NH 111 which approaches from the west, then later by NH 107 which approaches from the east. Bypassing east of downtown Kingston, the three routes are overlapped for just over before NH 111 turns east towards Exeter. NH 107 and NH 125 continue northwest for another , then NH 107 turns off towards Fremont while NH 125 continues north and crosses into the town of Brentwood. The highway has one major junction in Brentwood with NH 111A (the main road in town) and continues north towards Epping.\n\nUpon crossing into Epping, NH 125 becomes known as the Calef Highway and expands to four lanes before interchanging with the NH 101 freeway at exit 7. The highway turns northeast to bypass downtown and crosses NH 27 and the Lamprey River, narrowing back to two lanes thereafter. NH 125 meets the western terminus of NH 87 and the southern terminus of NH 155 before turning due north and entering Lee. NH 125 crosses NH 152 and turns slightly east, bypassing downtown Lee (which is directly served by NH 155) to the west. Continuing north, NH 125 then intersects with U.S. Route 4 at the Lee Traffic Circle, a major two-lane roundabout. NH 125 enters Barrington and stays along the town's east side, crossing the Bellamy River and then NH 9 further north. The highway continues north and enters the Rochester city limits.\n\nThe Calef Highway moniker ends as NH 125 enters Rochester, and the road becomes known as Gonic Road (after the neighborhood of Gonic which NH 125 passes through). The highway crosses the Isinglass River and passes alongside the Rochester County Club as it continues north towards downtown Rochester. After passing through Gonic, NH 125 has a major interchange with the Spaulding Turnpike (NH 16) at exit 12, and the road becomes Columbus Avenue as it transitions into an urban route. The highway crosses the Cocheco River and crosses South Main Street (which carries NH 108 and NH 202A, both of which terminate here) just south of downtown. While NH 202A heads straight into the heart of town, NH 125 follows Columbus Avenue in a partial loop around the east side of downtown. On the north side of downtown, Columbus Avenue ends and NH 125 turns north onto Wakefield Street, which becomes Milton Road. NH 125 has an interchange with US 202 and NH 11, which provide access to the nearby Spaulding Turnpike at exit 16, as well as to points east in Maine. As NH 125 continues north, it begins to parallel the Salmon Falls River (which forms the border between New Hampshire and Maine) to the west, and the Spaulding Turnpike to the east. The highway transitions back into a rural route as it enters the town of Milton.\n\nUpon crossing into Milton, NH 125 becomes known as the White Mountain Highway, in recognition of its former status as the major route north to the White Mountains Region (it carries the original alignment of NH 16 before the Spaulding Turnpike was built). The highway meets the eastern terminus of NH 75, which connects to the nearby turnpike at exit 17, before passing through downtown Milton, continuing to run along the western side of the Salmon Falls River. After leaving the downtown area, NH 125 turns slightly westward away from the river and continues winding north, running nearly adjacent to the turnpike. As it approaches the Branch River, a tributary of the Salmon Falls, NH 125 turns west and interchanges with the Spaulding Turnpike again at exit 18. This interchange marks the northern terminus of the Spaulding Turnpike, and the White Mountain Highway designation continues northward on NH 16. NH 125 crosses into Wakefield and passes through the village of Union as Main Street, then intersects with NH 153. NH 125 is overlapped with NH 153 on Main Street for (although this is only signed in the southbound direction) as the road bends around to the east to meet NH 16, where the NH 125 designation officially ends. The roadway continues north as NH 153 (Wakefield Road).\n"}
{"id": "2010972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010972", "title": "Henry Gage, 6th Viscount Gage", "text": "Henry Gage, 6th Viscount Gage\n\nHenry Rainald Gage, 6th Viscount Gage, KCVO, (30 December 1895 – 27 February 1982) was Viscount Gage of Firle Place during much of the 20th century.\n\nHe was born to Henry Charles Gage and Leila Georgina Peel. His Gage family ancestry included extensive roots in British North America from the Schuyler family, the Delancey family, and the Van Cortlandt family.\n\nUpon the death of his father in 1912, he succeeded him as Viscount Gage when he was only 16. Gage served in World War I as a Captain of the Coldstream Guards, seeing action in both France and Belgium. He was appointed Honorary Colonel of the 58th (Home Counties) Field Brigade, Royal Artillery, on 17 June 1936.\n\nIn 1931, Gage donated papers and letters written between 1758 and 1764 by his famous relative General Sir Thomas Gage to the William L. Clements Library of Ann Arbor, Michigan. \nGage later (between 1958 and 1965) donated letters and documents from ancestral in-law Vice-Admiral Sir Peter Warren to the Sussex Archaeological Society in Lewes.\n\nAt the beginning of World War II the family moved to a smaller house and nearby Southover girls' school in Lewes was evacuated for a short time to Gage's family home in Firle. After they had moved, Canadian soldiers were quartered at the family manor. In 1952, Gage's mother-in-law died, leaving art work to his wife, Imogen. The couple decided to showcase the art in their home, opening Firle Place to public tours in 1954. \n\nIn 1968, Imogen died. Gage was remarried in 1971 to Diana Cavendish. He died himself in 1982 at the age of 86. A stained glass window by the artist John Piper was installed in St Peter's Church, Firle, and dedicated to his memory. \n\nHe was appointed Deputy President of Sussex Wildlife Trust on 13 January 1962 and retired at the AGM on 29 April 1967. He is listed as the Director of Over Timber (Fawley) Ltd. and of Firle Estate Co.Ltd \n\nOn 26 February 1931, Gage married Alexandra Imogen Clair Grenfell (Imogen), daughter of William Grenfell, 1st Baron Desborough; they had three children: \n\nIn 1932 John St Clere (whom they called \"Sammy\") was born. George John would go on to become the 7th Viscount Gage. The future 8th Viscount Gage (Nicolas Gage) was born to Lord and Lady Gage in 1934. They also had a daughter, Camilla Jane, in 1937.\n"}
{"id": "2010973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010973", "title": "The Scholar (TV series)", "text": "The Scholar (TV series)\n\nThe Scholar is a reality television show broadcast by ABC.\n\nFilmed at the University of Southern California, The Scholar is the first reality television show to offer college scholarships as prizes. Ten high-achieving high school seniors compete for a full scholarship to the university of their choice in a competition that tests their skills in academics, leadership, school spirit and community service. The contestants were Amari, Alyssa, Davis, Elizabeth, Jeremy, Melissa, Milana, Scot, Gerald, and Max.\n\nThe series premiere aired on June 6, 2005. The first season ended on July 18, 2005.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2010979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010979", "title": "Meave Leakey", "text": "Meave Leakey\n\nMeave G. Leakey (born Meave Epps on 28 July 1942 in London, England) is a British palaeoanthropologist. She works at Stony Brook University and is co-ordinator of Plio-Pleistocene research at the Turkana Basin Institute. She studies early hominid evolution and has done extensive field research in the Turkana Basin. She has Doctor of Philosophy and Doctor of Science degrees.\n\nDr. Leakey's research team at Lake Turkana, Kenya made a discovery in 1999. They found a 3.5-million-year-old skull and partial jaw thought to belong to a new branch of the early human family. She named the find \"Kenyanthropus platyops\", or 'flat-faced man of Kenya'.\n\nMeave Leakey is married to Richard Leakey, a palaeontologist. They have two children, Louise (born 1972) and Samira (born 1974). Louise Leakey continues family traditions by conducting palaeontological research.\n\nLeakey initially studied zoology and marine zoology at the University of North Wales. Her first contact with the Leakey family was working for the Tigoni Primate Research Centre while taking her PhD at this time, the centre was being administered by Louis Leakey.\n\nShe received her PhD in zoology in 1968. In 2004, she was awarded an honorary D.Sc. from University College, London, for palaeontology. Leakey is currently a Research Professor for the Turkana Basin Institute (affiliated with Stony Brook University). On 30 April 2013, Leakey was elected as a Foreign Associate of the US National Academy of Sciences, with specialities of geology and anthropology. This made Leakey the first Kenyan citizen and also the first woman citizen of an African country to be elected as a member of the National Academy of Sciences. She was elected to the American Philosophical Society in 2017.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2010981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010981", "title": "Yoshiaki Kawajiri", "text": "Yoshiaki Kawajiri\n\nKawajiri was born on November 18, 1950 and grew up in Yokohama, Kanagawa Prefecture, Japan. After he graduated from high school in 1968, he worked as an animator at Mushi Production Animation until it closed in 1972. He then joined Madhouse as one of the four co-founders, and in the 1970s was promoted to animation director. He finally debuted as a film director with 1984's \"\", directing jointly with the more experienced Kazuyuki Hirokawa (Kawajiri also did the character design along with Kazuo Tomizawa). Gaining an interest in darker animation, he next directed \"The Running Man\". Afterwards, he was instructed to make a 35-minute short based on Hideyuki Kikuchi's novels, which was released as \"Wicked City\". After completing it, however, his producers were so impressed that he was asked to make it a feature-length film. Kawajiri enjoyed the dark tone, and agreed to manage and complete the film within a year. That same year he began to work for the Original Video Animation market debuting with \"The Phoenix\". From 1987 he also wrote his own scripts.\n\n\"Wicked City\" received critical and commercial success when released in 1987, giving Kawajiri more creative freedom. He began scripting and designing his own film set in feudal Japan. The result, \"Ninja Scroll\", about the Japanese folk hero Jubei Yagyu, was soon released. After the Western release in 1996, Kawajiri's status as a director received international recognition. He was asked in 2002 to direct a segment, titled \"Program\", of \"The Animatrix\", considered a showcase of the best directors of Japanese animation. Before \"The Animatrix\", he also directed \"\", which was based on a novel by Hideyuki Kikuchi.\n\nKawajiri directed \"\". It was released on DVD on 5 June 2007. According to an interview with Ain't It Cool News with producer Galen Walker, Kawajiri disliked the fact that 7–8 minutes of added scenes with no opening exposition text sequence were removed when the film was released, but the director's cut will include the footage. Kawajiri has script approval for a sequel to \"Ninja Scroll\", which was listed as being in pre-production with no specific release date as of 2010.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2010983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010983", "title": "Chaim Berlin", "text": "Chaim Berlin\n\nChaim Berlin (1832, Valozhyn – 1912, Jerusalem) (חיים ברלין) was an Orthodox rabbi and chief rabbi of Moscow from 1865 to 1889. He was the eldest son of the Netziv, Rabbi Naftali Zvi Yehuda Berlin.\n\nChaim Berlin was the son of Naftali Zvi Yehuda Berlin, the Netziv, and his first wife. Berlin initially learned with his father.\n\nHis connection to the House of David as a descendant of Rabbi Meir Katzenellenbogen, the Maharam of Padua, is detailed in \"The Unbroken Chain\".\n\nBerlin lived in Valozhyn, Belarus, where he was head of a rabbinical court. In 1891, his father appointed him head of the Valozhyn yeshiva. There was controversy regarding this appointment as many students felt that Rabbi Chaim Soloveitchik was more deserving to head the yeshiva.\n\nHe was married to his first wife from 5608/1847 until her passing 5642/1882. He subsequently was married from approximately 5644/1884 until the passing of his second wife 5649/1889.\n\nHe served as Chief Rabbi of:\n\nBerlin left Russia in 1906 and settled in Jerusalem. He became the assistant chief rabbi of the Ashkenazi community with Rabbi Shmuel Salant. He also assisted Rabbi Salant in the management of the Rabbi Meir Baal Haneis Salant charity founded by Rabbis Zundel and Salant in 1860. After Rabbi Salant died at the end of 1909, Berlin led the Jerusalem Rabbinate and the Rabbi Meir Baal Haneis Salant charity until his death in 1912 (5763).\n\nHe passed away at age 81 on 13 Tishrei 5663 (September 24, 1912) and was buried in the Mount of Olives Jewish Cemetery in East Jerusalem.\n\nYeshiva Rabbi Chaim Berlin, established in Brooklyn, New York in 1904 as \"Yeshiva Tiferes Bachurim\", was renamed for Rabbi Chaim Berlin in 1914, at the suggestion of his brother, Rabbi Meir Berlin (Bar-Ilan).\n\nHis major extensive writings were not published for nearly a century after his passing.<br>This changed with three publications:\n\n"}
{"id": "2010986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010986", "title": "Litke (crater)", "text": "Litke (crater)\n\nLitke is a lunar impact crater that lies within the large walled plain Fermi, near the north-northwestern inner rim. Less than one crater diameter to the west-northwest is the slightly larger Delporte. Litke is located on the far side of the Moon and cannot be viewed directly from the Earth.\n\nThe rim of Litke is circular to the east and south, but the northern and western rims have been pushed inward somewhat. The west rim is irregular and broken through by a pair of worn depressions. Along the northern side slumped deposits form a pile along the base of the inner wall. A small craterlet lies along the southern rim and a small crater is attached to the exterior along the eastern side. The interior floor of litke has a low scarp that is nearly concentric with the eastern and southern sides. There is a small crater located on the interior floor just to the east of the midpoint.\n"}
{"id": "2010990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010990", "title": "Iron Bridge", "text": "Iron Bridge\n\nIron Bridge may refer to:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2011001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011001", "title": "Galactic Civilizations II: Dread Lords", "text": "Galactic Civilizations II: Dread Lords\n\nGalactic Civilizations II: Dread Lords is a 4X turn-based strategy by Stardock for Microsoft Windows. It is the sequel to the original \"Galactic Civilizations\" (in turn based on the OS/2 games \"Galactic Civilizations\" and \"Galactic Civilizations 2\"), and was released at retail and on Stardock's online subscription service, TotalGaming.net, on February 21, 2006. An expansion, \"\", was released in February 2007. A second expansion, \"\", was released in April 2008.\n\n\"Dread Lords\" is set in the 23rd century, when multiple alien civilizations, including Terrans, scramble to conquer the galaxy, planet by planet, by force, diplomacy, influence (culture), or technology. \"Dread Lords\" focuses on the single player experience that consists of a Campaign mode and a \"Sandbox\" mode, and omits multiplayer. The game is notable for its artificial intelligence, which is challenging without being given resources and abilities not available to the player, as is common in the majority of strategy games. The game was a modest commercial success, and it was received favorably by critics, winning multiple Editor's Choice awards. Stardock also opted for a rather unusual distribution strategy that lacks copy prevention, and allowed for extensive modding by the community.\n\nA sequel, titled \"Galactic Civilizations III\" was announced by Stardock on October 15, 2013. A pre-release version was made available through Steam in March 2014, which allowed customers to play the game while it is still in development. The sequel was the first game in the series to feature multiplayer and used hex-based game tiles. The full version of the game was released in May 2015. The game's first expansion, titled Mercenaries, was released in February 2016.\n\nThe story of \"Galactic Civilizations II\" and the back plot of the ingame universe it inhabits is based on a series of short stories written by Stardock CEO Brad Wardell.\n\nA powerful, highly advanced civilization, remembered in legend as the \"Precursors\", colonized much of the galaxy thousands of years ago. As younger specimens throughout the galaxy began to develop the beginnings of their own primitive civilizations, it led to a philosophical rift within Precursor society, splitting it into two factions. The Arnor faction wanted to guide the younger civilizations toward enlightenment. The Dread Lord faction wanted to exterminate them.\n\nThis dispute erupted into a catastrophic civil war. The Dread Lords came close to destroying the Arnor in the war's final battle. However, before the final blow was struck, the Dread Lords and the Arnor both mysteriously vanished.\n\nThe younger civilizations eventually began to explore the galaxy on their own but their progress was slow. The first wave of exploration was made possible after the invention of stargates. A stargate was expensive to build and would only transport a ship to another stargate, which first had to be constructed at the destination.\n\nThe youngest civilization, Humanity, obtained plans for the construction of a stargate after the Arcean civilization initiated first contact with them. Human scientists realized that, with the inclusion of a fusion power source, the technology behind the stargates could be modified to create a hyperdrive engine. Hyperdrive allowed starships to travel great distances on their own.\n\nWith the entire galaxy now within easy reach, the major space-traveling civilizations began a race to explore, colonize and, in some cases, conquer the galaxy. Armies were mobilized, fleets of warships were built and the galaxy was once again on the verge of total war. As the younger civilizations prepared themselves for the coming conflict, the Dread Lords began to return.\n\nThe player must guide Humanity's actions as they attempt to prevent Precursor technology from being discovered by their enemies, fight a galactic war between the major powers and survive the onslaught of the genocidal Dread Lords.\n\nThe game is played in what is known as a \"sandbox\" galaxy mode, where the objective is to achieve victory over AI opponents in one of four ways - military conquest, cultural domination, universal alliance or technological supremacy. The sandbox analogy represents the free-form style of playing, where the player is free to develop the game however he/she chooses. This \"sandbox\" may be customized in terms of galaxy size, planet habitability and similar features as well as difficulty of the opposition. The game also includes a story-driven campaign, featuring the titular \"Dread Lords\".\n\nThe game has 10 playable preset civilizations, and also allows the user to create a custom civilization. Eight of the preset civilizations return from the original \"Galactic Civilizations\" game and its expansion: the Terran Alliance, the Yor Collective, the Drengin Empire, the Altarian Republic, the Drath Legion, the Torian Confederation, the Dominion of the Korx, and the Arcean Empire. The other two preset civilizations are new: the Iconian Refuge and the Thalan Empire. Minor civilizations (which do not factor into winning conditions, and have a weaker AI), such as the sentient rodent-like Snathi, can also appear in the game.\n\nEach preset civilization has a distinct combination of AI, personality, and built-in advantages. The Korx, for instance, focus on money, and thus have an economic bonus. The Terrans are excellent diplomats, the Drengins have superb ships and soldiers, the Torese have fast population growth, and the Yor have very loyal populations.\n\nOne criticism of the original \"Galactic Civilizations\" was its lack of ship design features. New ships simply became available when the appropriate technology was researched to create them. \"Galactic Civilizations II\" includes a highly configurable 3D ship design editor. Technological research now unlocks components that players use to create their own custom ship designs in 3D from a variety of hull bases. The users' ships are rendered in real time and shown on both the main screen and in fleet battles. Other than component selection, the design of a ship has no effect on its combat abilities, since tactical combat is not a feature of the game.\n\nEvery ship is designed around a particular class of hull - tiny, small, cargo, medium, large and huge - and has a predetermined number of hit points and capacity. Each ship component takes up a certain amount of space. Technological advances can lead to enhanced components that take up less space (but which typically cost more to construct). Existing ships may be upgraded to use these new components, although it is often cheaper to use them as cannon fodder and replace them with newer ships.\n\nThere are three types of paired \"offense-defense\" combinations:\n\nDefenses work best against the offensive weapon with which they are matched. A defense mechanism used against a mismatched attack is diminished to the square root of the defense value (with a minimum of 1). For example, nine units of shield defenses would afford the same protection as only three units of armor when used to defend against mass drivers.\n\nEngines are another component, and become available in increasing power/size ratios with later research. Several extra components available at all times include sensors, life support (for extra range), colonization, and construction modules. Each component may be added multiple times with summing effect; a player could create a fast long-range fighter with two lasers, two ion engines, a support module, and a shield.\n\nA wide variety of non-functional components (\"jewelry\") such as wings, pylons, wheel structures, and lights may be added for artistic purposes. These take up no space and cost nothing to build. There are several sets of jewelry, one of which is assigned to each civilization, though the player is not restricted to choosing from these.\n\n\"Galactic Civilizations II\" is powered by a custom 3D game engine, although most user interface elements are displayed in 2D. Planets and ships are restricted to a single plane in space, but the user may pan and zoom as they wish, even to view the details of individual ships. Players may zoom out to view the galactic map on a wide scale, at which point the ships, planets and anomalies are replaced by icons. It is possible to play the game in this mode.\n\nThe player's ship designs are tested in full-screen fleet battles in an environment separate from the main screen. The battles are not user-directed, but it is possible to watch from several viewpoints and fast-forward and reverse through them. Planetary invasions are dealt with separately, depending on a combination of general technology, soldiering ability, quantity of forces available to each side, and optional methods of attack (which tend to provide advantages at the cost of decreasing planetary quality or destroying planetary improvements).\n\nA major focus of \"Galactic Civilizations II\" is the artificial intelligence of its opponents, due in part to the deliberate omission of multiplayer in favor of the single-player experience. The game offers 12 levels of AI intelligence for opponent civilizations. Full AI capability is granted at the 7th level (\"intelligent\"). Levels 1 through 6 implement less sophisticated strategies/counter-strategies and (except for level 6) are hindered by economic handicaps. Levels 8 through 12 are aided by economic advantages and other bonuses.\n\nThe AI also makes use of technological developments to design ships of its own. At higher difficulty levels these ships are tailored to the opposition, so players sending fleets of laser-armed ships may find them repulsed by shielded defenders, while those preferring to employ mass drivers will find that they come up against heavily armored opposition instead.\n\nStardock has changed the AI's capabilities with various updates.\n\nIn the original \"Galactic Civilizations\", planets were part of a star system, and located in the same square. In \"Galactic Civilizations II\", each planet (or colony) is a completely separate entity in space. Moreover, planets may now only have a limited number of improvements built upon them. A planet's class determines the number of improvement tiles that are available for building. There are improvements to aid manufacturing, research, planetary influence, morale, and the economy, as well as several \"wonder\"-style improvements similar to those popularized by the \"Civilization\" series of games.\n\nCertain technologies allow the unlocking of extra tiles, a feature that allows more advanced civilizations to make better use of a low-quality planet. Planets may be focused on military production or research, allowing the creation of military outposts or research bases. In addition, a proportion of tiles offer bonuses for manufacturing, research, agriculture, influence or morale improvements built upon them.\n\nThe necessity of customizing planetary improvements (which is a big part of the game) can be an increased burden on the player. To help with this, the game offers an auto-update system that can automatically upgrade any available planetary improvements as new technology becomes available.\n\nThe largest departure made by \"Galactic Civilizations II\" from other 4X games is its economic system, which is very different from the systems used in most strategy games. Typically, 4X strategy games receive money based on a tax rate or based on the income of specific tiles in use by a city or planet. \"Civilization IV\" uses this system, and most other 4X strategy games use a variant of it. These incomes are increased by economic structures and sometimes by population, and the profit made off this economic income is used to pay maintenance fees and rush-build units. \"Galactic Civilizations II\" adds another layer of complexity by requiring that the income of an empire is used to pay for all forms of production. In order to produce one unit of product, be it research or manufacturing, the player must pay credits (usually in denominations of a Billion Credits, or BC). It is therefore critical that the player balances the economic income of their empire with their industrial output, and not just with the maintenance of their empire. If the player does not have the economy required to support an industrial planet, then they will have to spend at a deficit, and if the player does not correct their economy, they will eventually go broke. This stands in stark contrast to the Civilization series, where industrial output has nothing to do with the player's economic income.\n\nAt random times throughout the game, though commonly in colonizing new planets, the player is presented with ethical choices in the form of events where a wide-ranging decision needs to be made. Typically the good choice will cost the player something (either directly or indirectly). Conversely, the evil choice can bring benefits, albeit at the expense of other civilizations or the player's own population. A neutral choice is also presented as a compromise. To keep the game's ethics uncontroversial, the choices are made very clear-cut.\n\nFor example, one random event involves the creation of a super-serum that can enhance soldiers' performance at the expense of decreasing the life expectancy of those who take it. The player may forbid its use and destroy all of the research at government's expense (good), only allow it to be used by those who volunteer (neutral), or require all army recruits to take it (evil). In this case, the \"loss\" of the good choice is mostly an opportunity cost in terms of the foregone advantage.\n\nThe main advantage to making good choices comes in diplomacy with other civilizations; good civilizations are more picky about interacting with evil civilizations than evil ones are with good ones. In addition, once the \"Xeno Ethics\" technology is researched, it is possible to \"pick\" one of the three alignments, which grants access to various bonuses and improvements. Picking an alignment other than that already established by the player's actions costs significant amounts of money.\n\nSome random events affect not only individual civilizations, but also the entire galaxy. These galaxy-wide events can upset the balance of power, transform weak civilizations into powerful ones, lead to wars between allies and even result in chaos. In one event, a civilization unearths an archeological relic that will eventually transform them into \"god-like\" beings. Some events can spawn devastating pirate fleets across the galaxy or triple one civilization's influence. Others are more benign, with all civilizations experiencing a short-term economic boom, or a \"wave of xenophobia\" (usually triggered by prolonged warfare) that halts tourism.\n\nA late addition to the original \"Galactic Civilizations\" game, starbases are a central component in \"Galactic Civilizations II\". There are four main types of starbases:\n\nAll four kinds of starbases may also be upgraded with defensive capabilities. The AI is more than willing to make its own starbases, and may take exception to the player building them too close to the AI's planets.\n\nWhen designing a custom civilization, the player is given a set of points that can be allocated to various bonus abilities. These bonuses cover most game mechanics - it is possible to make a civilization with highly militant and loyal researchers, or with influential and highly prolific diplomats.\n\nAt the beginning of the game, the player chooses one of eight political parties, each with its own advantages. These advantages are cumulative with the civilizations bonuses, so they may be used to cement an established advantage, or to shore up a potential weakness. However, these bonuses are only preserved as long as the player's party stays in power, which depends on keeping morale up (generally above 50%). If the player loses an election they do not lose control of the game, only the bonuses previously granted. In addition, the bonus of the party currently in power (if you are not) is applied as a penalty to your civilization instead. Morale also has an effect on reported population, and thus on tax revenue, so it is important not to tax for short-term gain.\n\nThe player can eventually research advanced forms of government that grant significant bonuses to the economy and social production. However, it becomes increasingly harder to keep morale up while progressing from an imperial government to a republic, democracy or galactic federation.\n\nThe United Planets is a council formed of all major civilizations in the galaxy that regularly convenes to make decisions. The number of votes a civilization has in the council depends on their influence, which is partially a factor of population, but which is also affected by planetary improvements and civilization bonuses (among other factors). The United Planets does not \"usually\" have a great effect on the game, but some of the propositions — for example, the transfer of unique researched technologies, or the imposition of a certain governmental system — can be extremely destabilizing if passed. The player does have the option of permanently leaving the United Planets, but at the expense of losing all trade revenue.\n\nDiplomacy is a key part of the game. Players — both human and AI — may trade technology, starbases, ships, planets, and trade goods (unique improvements built by one civilization that provide a bonus to those obtaining them). Negotiation skill is an important factor which varies with inherent civilization bonuses and research; it can be possible to gain a significant technological advantage through careful trading with less sophisticated civilizations.\n\nEach civilization has customized text used during negotiation that signifies their current relations with the player. Relations depend on a number of factors, including current trade, relative ethical alignment, belligerence, military might and past actions. AI players may decide to initiate technology trades or demand tribute from the player, or to warn them of perceived threats.\n\nUpon release, \"Galactic Civilizations II\" received positive reviews from GameSpot, GameSpy, and IGN. The overall critical reception was highly positive, awarding an average score of 87%.\n\nThe editors of \"Computer Games Magazine\" presented \"Galactic Civilizations II\" with their 2006 \"Best AI\" and \"Best Independent Game\" awards, and named it the year's sixth-best computer game overall. They wrote, \"\"Galactic Civilizations II\" may not lead to a resurgence of space conquest games, but as long as it's available, the renaissance can wait.\"\n\nTen days after its launch, \"Galactic Civilizations II\" had matched the lifetime sales of its predecessor, with 75,000 copies sold. According to Stardock's CEO Brad Wardell, as of March 2008, Galactic Civilizations II has sold around 300,000 copies in total, bringing in an eight-figure revenue, on a development budget of less than $1 million.\n\nStardock has not instituted any stringent or cumbersome copy prevention schemes in accordance with what its CEO Wardell has defined as the Gamer's Bill of Rights.\n\nThe game's CD contains no copy prevention and there is no requirement to have the disc loaded into the computer to play the game. Stardock's anti-piracy plan is that players must complete product activation with a valid serial number before they may receive any of the several game updates. Serial numbers can be used multiple times and the company owner, Brad Wardell, has stated that they are taking an approach based on the view that people who install the game illegally were unlikely to purchase it anyway.\n\nReselling copies of the game is against Stardock's license terms. Resold/used copies will not be supported, meaning that the buyer of a used copy cannot download game updates.\n\nCopies of the game purchased from Stardock's online store use product activation before the game can be played. The game can only be installed and activated a limited number of times before needing to contact support. Installing on a computer without an internet connection require the files to be downloaded into an archive on another computer, and an activation data blob emailed to Stardock; a signature file is returned to be used on the activated computer.\n\nOn November 21, 2015 \"Galactic Civilizations II: Ultimate Edition\" was released DRM-free and without product activation on the digital distribution website gog.com.\n\nOn March 5, 2006, a StarForce employee publicly posted a working link to a BitTorrent search engine listing of \"Galactic Civilizations II\" torrents during a discussion about the popularity of the game. Their action was publicized on various websites, including Digg, Neowin, and Penny Arcade. Stardock also posted an article, partially in response to inaccurate reporting of their own reasons for releasing the game without copy protection. Starforce later closed the thread, posting an apology and stating that the employee \"just wanted to show that every non-protected game can be cracked\".\n\nStardock has released two expansion packs for the game as well as a major update (GalCiv 2.0). It will not release any more as they are currently working on their upcoming projects.\n\nStardock released an expansion pack named \"Galactic Civilizations II: Dark Avatar\" in February 2007. A number of things are added in the expansion, such as:\n\n\nA second expansion pack named \"Galactic Civilizations II: Twilight of the Arnor\" was released in April 2008, the expansion added new content to the game, such as:\n\n\nAccording to Stardock, \"Twilight of the Arnor\" is the final expansion for \"Galactic Civilizations II\".\n\n\"Galactic Civilizations II: Endless Universe\" is a compilation featuring the content of \"Dread Lords\", \"Dark Avatar\" and \"Twilight of the Arnor\". It was released exclusively in Europe on September 26, 2008 and it was published by Kalypso Media. The compilation was released as \"Galactic Civilizations II: Ultimate Edition\" in North America on February 9, 2009.\n\nSignificant modding features have been built into the game in terms of user-editable XML files. The ship designs are also intended to be redistributed to others, and popular models (both derivative and original) appeared shortly after the game's release.\n\nSince September 2014, the game's community works on a Stardock endorsed community patch, whose beta version was already applied on the November 2015 gog.com release. On December 17, 2015 the community patch was canonized as official patch version 2.20 by Stardock.\n\n"}
{"id": "2011002", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011002", "title": "Bliss (image)", "text": "Bliss (image)\n\nBliss is the default computer wallpaper of Microsoft's Windows XP operating system. It is a virtually unedited photograph of a green hill and blue sky with clouds in the Los Carneros American Viticultural Area of California's Wine Country. Charles O'Rear took the photo in 1996 and Microsoft bought the rights in 2000.\n\nFormer \"National Geographic\" photographer Charles O'Rear, a resident of the nearby Napa Valley, took the photo on film with a medium-format Mamiya RZ67 camera while on his way to visit his girlfriend in 1996. While it was widely believed later that the image was digitally manipulated or even created with software such as Adobe Photoshop, O'Rear says it never was. He sold it to Westlight for use as a stock photo titled \"Bucolic Green Hills\". Westlight would be bought by Corbis in 1998, who digitized its best selling images. Two years following the acquisition, Microsoft's design team selected images to be used as wallpapers in Windows XP. The image would eventually be chosen as the default wallpaper, resulting in the company acquiring the image and renaming it to \"Bliss\".\n\nDue to the marketing success of Windows XP, over the next decade it was claimed to be the most viewed photograph in the world during that time.\n\nIn January 1996, former \"National Geographic\" photographer Charles O'Rear was on his way from his home in St. Helena, California, in the Napa Valley north of San Francisco, to visit his girlfriend, Daphne Irwin (whom he later married), in the city, as he did every Friday afternoon. He was working with Irwin on a book about the wine country. He was particularly alert for a photo opportunity that day, since a storm had just passed over and other recent winter rains had left the area especially green. Driving along the Sonoma Highway (California State Route 12 and 121) he saw the hill, free of the vineyards that normally covered the area; they had been pulled out a few years earlier following a phylloxera infestation. \"There it was! My God, the grass is perfect! It's green! The sun is out; there's some clouds,\" he remembered thinking. He stopped somewhere near the Napa–Sonoma county line and pulled off the road to set his Mamiya RZ67 medium-format camera on a tripod, choosing Fujifilm's Velvia, a film often used among nature photographers and known to saturate some colors. O'Rear credits that combination of camera and film for the success of the image. \"It made the difference and, I think, helped the 'Bliss' photograph stand out even more,\" he said. \"I think that if I had shot it with 35 mm, it would not have nearly the same effect.\" While he was setting up his camera, he said it was possible that the clouds in the picture came in. \"Everything was changing so quickly at that time.\" He took four shots and got back into his truck. According to O'Rear, the image was not digitally enhanced or manipulated in any way.\n\nSince it was not pertinent to the wine-country book, O'Rear made it available through Westlight (transferred to Corbis after its acquisition) as a stock photo, available for use by any interested party willing to pay an appropriate licensing fee. He also submitted a vertical shot, which was available at the same time. In 2000, Microsoft's Windows XP development team contacted O'Rear through Corbis, which he believes they used instead of larger competitor Getty Images, also based in Seattle, because the former company is owned by Microsoft founder Bill Gates. \"I have no idea what [they] were looking for,\" he recalls. \"Were they looking for an image that was peaceful? Were they looking for an image that had no tension?\" Another image of O'Rear's titled \"Full Moon over Red Dunes\", known as \"Red moon desert\" in Windows XP, was also considered as the default wallpaper, but was changed due to testers comparing it to buttocks.\n\nMicrosoft said they wanted not just to license the image for use as XP's default wallpaper, but to buy all the rights to it. They offered O'Rear what he says is the second-largest payment ever made to a photographer for a single image; however, he signed a confidentiality agreement and cannot disclose the exact amount. It has been reported to be \"in the low six figures.\" O'Rear needed to send Microsoft the original film and sign the paperwork; however, when couriers and delivery services became aware of the value of the shipment, they declined since it was higher than their insurance would cover. So the software company bought him a plane ticket to Seattle and he personally delivered it to their offices.\" \"I had no idea where it was going to go,\" he said. \"I don't think the engineers or anybody at Microsoft had any idea it would have the success it's had.\"\n\nMicrosoft gave the photo its current name, and made it a key part of its marketing campaign for XP. Although Microsoft are often said to have cropped it slightly to the left and made the greens slightly stronger, the version Microsoft bought from Corbis had been cropped like this to begin with, while the saturation is a result of the Velvia film. The photographer estimates that the image has been seen on a billion computers worldwide, based on the number of copies of XP sold since then.\n\nIn November 2006, Goldin+Senneby visited the site in Sonoma Valley where the \"Bliss\" image was taken, re-photographing the same view now full of grapevines (pictured). Their work \"After Microsoft\" was first shown in the exhibition \"Paris was Yesterday\" at the gallery La Vitrine in April 2007. It was later exhibited at 300m³ in Gothenburg.\n\nO'Rear concedes that despite all the other photographs he took for \"National Geographic\", he will probably be remembered most for \"Bliss\". \"Anybody now from age 15 on for the rest of their life will remember this photograph,\" he said in 2014.\n\nSince the origins of the image were not widely known for several years after XP's release, there had been considerable speculation about where the landscape was. Some guesses have included locations in France, England, Switzerland, the North Otago region of New Zealand, and southeastern Washington. Dutch users believed the photograph was shot in Ireland's County Kerry since the image was named \"Ireland\" in the Dutch release of the software; similarly, the image was named \"Alentejo\" in the Portuguese version, leading users speaking that language to believe it had been taken in the eponymous region of Portugal.\n\nOther users have speculated that the image was not of a real location, that the sky came from a separate image and was spliced together with the hill. O'Rear is adamant that, other than Microsoft's minor alterations to the digitized version, he did nothing to it in a darkroom, contrasting it with Adams' \"Monolith\":\nIn December 2001, Microsoft released a screensaver under the name of \"Bliss\", with the scenery similar to the image, but with animating effects.\n\nIn 2012, David Clark of the British magazine \"Amateur Photographer\" commented on \"Bliss\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s aesthetic qualities. \"Critics might argue that the image is bland and lacks a point of interest, while supporters would say that its evocation of a bright, clear day in a beautiful landscape is itself the subject,\" he wrote. He notes the \"dreamlike quality\" created by the filtered sunlight on the hillside as distinguishing the image. \"What made Microsoft choose the image above all others?\" he asked. Although the company had never told O'Rear or anyone else, Clark thought he could guess. \"It's attractive, easy on the eye and doesn't detract from other items that might be on the screen are all contributing factors. It may also have been chosen because it's an unusually inviting image of a verdant landscape and one that promotes a sense of wellbeing in desk-bound computer users.\"\n\nDue to the success of Windows XP and the general familiarity of the public with the image, Bliss eventually became an internet meme and has been parodied and imitated since 2006. Some of these alterations involve adding people, animals, vehicles, and buildings to the image, while others show it experiencing environmental catastrophes like fires or flooding. Some add the blue screen of death in some way or merge it with a more famous work of art. It has been re-created in Minecraft or a Minecraft-like program.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2011008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011008", "title": "Shadow Project", "text": "Shadow Project\n\nShadow Project was an Alternative rock/goth metal band formed in 1987 featuring former members of Los Angeles deathrock groups Christian Death and Super Heroines. After recording two LP records the group experienced a three-year hiatus, reconvening for a third and final album. Shadow Project definitively folded after vocalist Rozz Williams committed suicide on April 1, 1998. The band briefly returned in 2019 under the moniker \"Shadow Project 1334\" for 13 shows only, vowing to never perform again together after that.\n\nThe band was named after a study of the effects of nuclear bombs in Hiroshima. Centered around Rozz Williams and Eva O, Shadow Project gave its first performance in San Francisco in 1987, but did not maintain much of a profile until Williams and Eva O returned to Los Angeles in 1990. Once there, they recruited keyboardist Paris Sadonis, Super Heroines bassist Jill Emery, and drummer Tom Morgan, formerly from Los Angeles punk band the Flesh Eaters. After touring the city's club circuit - including the legendary Whisky A Go Go - they signed with Triple X Records, responsible for launching Jane's Addiction's successful career.\n\nThe band's self-titled first album was released in 1991. \"AllMusic\" described Shadow Project's debut as a unique and adventurous \"blend of goth, punk and glam\", a challenging record that would ultimately prove satisfying after several spins. With Peter Tomlinson replacing Morgan, the group completed a follow-up, \"Dreams for the Dying\", recorded during the 1992 Los Angeles riots. Jill Emery left to concentrate on her Hole duties.\n\nThe following year Shadow Project participated on Triple X's Alice Cooper tribute \"\" with a \"Dead Babies/Killer\" medley. The band personnel for this recording featured yet another line-up change, with Aaron Schwartz now on bass and Chuck Collison handling the track's samples. Shadow Project then toured the United States in the summer, and after that had plans to tour Europe in the Fall, namely France, Germany, the Netherlands, Belgium and the United Kingdom.\n\nDuring their 1993 tour in support for \"Dreams for the Dying\"'s release, Shadow Project recorded a concert held in Fullerton, California on June 20, later to be released as the \"In Tuned Out\" live album. Alongside tracks culled from their two studio albums, the record features an Alice Cooper medley, a David Bowie cover (\"Panic in Detroit\") and two unreleased songs. A Christian Death original, \"Still Born/Still Life\" - dedicated to serial killer Jeffrey Dahmer - was also included in the set.\n\nAfter the American tour, Eva O and Paris left the band to focus on Eva O Halo Experience CD \"Demons Fall for an Angel's Kiss\". This effectively ended Shadow Project. For his part, Williams declared that Shadow Project went as far it could. \"Eva wanted to go in one direction and I in another\", he justified; he then went on to pursue his own musical interests. The German leg of their European tour had already been booked by then, so Rozz Williams went to tour with another band in place, Daucus Karota.\n\nAfter Shadow Project split, Rozz Williams and Eva O. divorced (but remained friendly) and Williams' heroin addiction increased. In 1997 they would once again reunite to record the final Shadow Project release, \"From the Heart\". The album included band material from previous records stripped down to just acoustic guitar and vocal duets. Nathan Van Hala of christian metal group Saviour Machine was drafted to fill in the keyboard duties. But before \"From Heart\" came out Shadow Project's career was again cut short, this time by Rozz Williams' suicide. The singer hanged himself on April Fool's Day, leaving no suicide note. His former Christian Death bandmate, Valor Kand, said that beside suffering from bipolar disorder, Williams battled alcohol and heroin abuse all his life.\n\nIn \"Terrorizer\" magazine's accessement, Shadow Project \"seamlessly blended\" all of Rozz Williams' talents: art, music and poetry. In that sense the group had a wide range of influences, raging from glam rock icons David Bowie and T. Rex, West Coast punk bands The Germs and The Alley Cats, to symbolist poet Arthur Rimbaud, \"Theatre of Cruelty\" creator Antonin Artaud and the cut-up technique of Beat writer William S. Burroughs. Rozz also held pioneer hard rock and heavy metal groups such as Black Sabbath, Led Zeppelin, Kiss and Alice Cooper in great esteem.\n\nEva O described Shadow Project's music as \"a strange mixture of metallic death rock and punk\". For his part, Williams stated that Shadow Project's music wasn't \"Gothic-Rock\"; in fact, the music of Shadow Project was \"beyond labeling.\"\n\nRozz Williams felt frustrated that he couldn't quite steer from \"goth\" tag due to the legendary status of his former band, Christian Death. Williams didn't consider himself part of the gothic scene anymore, stating that:\n\nRozz Williams' favorite subject matter revolved around death, religion and violence. Regarding the latter, the singer was obsessed with serial killers - especially Charles Manson - and dedicated a song (\"Still Born/Still Life\") to Jeffrey Dahmer. He explained that, to him, \"they've crossed a barrier that... well, obviously, you're not supposed to and you're not allowed to, supposedly. It's kind of a fascination with that\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2011017", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011017", "title": "Species Plantarum", "text": "Species Plantarum\n\n\"\" was published on 1 May 1753 by Laurentius Salvius in Stockholm, in two volumes. A second edition was published in 1762–1763, and a third edition in 1764, although this \"scarcely differed\" from the second. Further editions were published after Linnaeus' death in 1778, under the direction of Karl Ludwig Willdenow, the director of the Berlin Botanical Garden; the fifth edition (1800) was published in four volumes.\n\n' was the first botanical work to consistently apply the binomial nomenclature system of naming to any large group of organisms (Linnaeus' tenth edition of ' would apply the same technique to animals for the first time in 1758). Prior to this work, a plant species would be known by a long polynomial, such as ' (meaning \"plantain with pubescent ovate-lanceolate leaves, a cylindrical spike and a terete scape\") or ' (meaning \"\"Nepeta\" with flowers in a stalked, interrupted spike\"). In \"\", these cumbersome names were replaced with two-part names, consisting of a single-word genus name, and a single-word specific epithet or \"trivial name\"; the two examples above became \"Plantago media\" and \"Nepeta cataria\", respectively. The use of binomial names had originally been developed as a kind of shorthand in a student project about the plants eaten by cattle.\n\nAfter the specific epithet, Linnaeus gave a short description of each species, and a synonymy. The descriptions were careful and terse, consisting of few words in small genera; in \"Glycyrrhiza\", for instance, the three species (\"Glycyrrhiza echinata\", \"Glycyrrhiza glabra\" and \"\"Glycyrrhiza hirsuta\"\", respectively) were described as \"'\", \"'\" and \"\"\".\n\nBecause it is the first work in which binomial nomenclature was consistently applied, \" was chosen as the \"starting point\" for the nomenclature of most plants (the nomenclature of some non-vascular plants and all fungi uses later starting points).\n\n\"\" contained descriptions of the thousands of plant species known to Linnaeus at the time. In the first edition, there were 5,940 names, from \"Acalypha australis\" to \"Zygophyllum spinosum\". In his introduction, Linnaeus estimated that there were fewer than 10,000 plant species in existence; there are now thought to be around 400,000 species of flowering plants alone.\n\nThe species were arranged in around a thousand genera, which were grouped into 24 classes, according to Linnaeus' sexual system of classification. There are no descriptions of the genera in '; these are supplied in the companion volume ' (\"the genera of plants\"), the fifth edition of which was printed at a similar time to the first edition of \"\". Linnaeus' sexual system is now acknowledged to be an artificial system, rather than one which accurately reflects shared ancestry, but the system's simplicity made it easier for non-specialists to rapidly find the correct class, being based on simple counts of floral parts such as stigmas and stamens.\n\n"}
{"id": "2011018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011018", "title": "Berkeley Yacc", "text": "Berkeley Yacc\n\nBerkeley Yacc (byacc) is a Unix parser generator designed to be compatible with Yacc. It was originally written by Robert Corbett and released in 1989. Due to its liberal license and because it was faster than the AT&T Yacc, it quickly became the most popular version of Yacc. It has the advantages of being written in ANSI C89 and being public domain software.\n\nIt contains features not available in Yacc, such as reentrancy, which is implemented in a way that is broadly compatible with GNU Bison.\n\nIn 1985, Robert Corbett developed an original LALR parser generator based on a 1982 paper by DeRemer and Pennello. Corbett wrote it as part of his research towards the Ph.D. he received from University of California, Berkeley in June 1985. It was originally named Byson and was incompatible with Yacc but it was subsequently renamed Bison and became the basis of GNU Bison.\n\nLater in 1985, Corbett derived another Yacc-compatible LALR parser generator originally named Zeus but subsequently renamed Zoo. Corbett published the source code for Zoo in a Usenet newsgroup but it went mostly unnoticed until later in September 1989 when Corbett posted on the comp.compilers newsgroup about putting the source code on an FTP server. There was discussion about renaming it and by October 1989 it had become known as Berkeley Yacc (byacc).\n\nIn 1995, Chris Dodd developed BtYacc, a backtracking derivative of Berkeley Yacc to support parsing context-sensitive languages like C++, based on a 1993 paper by Merrill describing similar modifications to AT&T Yacc. It offers backtracking and semantic disambiguation for parsing ambiguous grammar. A rule parsed but rejected by semantic information can be rolled back, so that the parser can try another rule. However, it has also been criticized for needing side-effect free trial actions and its inflexible handling of shift-reduce conflicts.\n\nIn 1997, Vadim Maslov took over maintenance of BtYacc to support a COBOL parser developed by his company. By 1999, the last 3.0 release, had been converted to C++, no longer supporting from C.\n\nIn 2000, Thomas E. Dickey, ported Berkeley Yacc to VMS to facilitate porting tin to VMS. After failing to find another maintainer, Dickey has maintained Berkeley Yacc since February 2002. A significant update was the conversion from K&R C to ANSI C89.\n\nIn 2014, Tom Shields integrated BtYacc backtracking into Berkeley Yacc effectively subsuming BtYacc and again supporting C (instead of only C++) in Dickey releases since April 2014.\n\n"}
{"id": "2011025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011025", "title": "Hermann Florstedt", "text": "Hermann Florstedt\n\nArthur Hermann Florstedt (18 February 1895 – 15 April 1945), member of the NSDAP, was a German SS commander, war criminal and convicted war profiteer. He became the third commander of Majdanek concentration camp in October 1942. Florstedt was convicted of corruption and executed by the regime in April 1945.\n\nFlorstedt joined the SS in 1933 achieving the rank of Standartenführer in 1938. He served at the Sachsenhausen concentration camp from 1940 till 1942. He was appointed the third chief of Majdanek extermination camp in October 1942 to replace \"SS-Sturmbannführer\" Max Koegel.\n\nFlorstedt was investigated by SS Judge Georg Konrad Morgen and charged by the \"Schutzstaffel\" (SS) with embezzlement and arbitrary killing of prisoner witnesses. Florstedt was one of two Majdanek commandants put on trial by the SS in the course of the camp operation. He was charged with corruption (wholesale stealing from the Third Reich); he had access to valuables stolen from Holocaust victims killed at death camps of Belzec, Sobibor and Treblinka. These valuables were stored and processed at Majdanek.\n\nHe was replaced by the interim commander Martin Gottfried Weiss. Florstedt was executed by the SS \n"}
{"id": "2011030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011030", "title": "Abraham Darby III", "text": "Abraham Darby III\n\nAbraham Darby III (24 April 1750 – 1789) was an English ironmaster and Quaker. He was the third man of that name in several generations of an English Quaker family that played a pivotal role in the Industrial Revolution.\n\nAbraham Darby was born in Coalbrookdale, Shropshire, in 1750, the eldest son of Abraham Darby the Younger (1711–1763) by his second wife, Abiah Maude, and educated at a school in Worcester kept by a Quaker named James Fell.\n\nAt age thirteen, Darby inherited his father's shares in the family iron-making businesses in the Severn Valley, and in 1768, aged eighteen, he took over the management of the Coalbrookdale ironworks. He took various measures to improve the conditions of his work force. In times of food shortage he brought up farms to grow food for his workers, he built housing for them, and he offered higher wages than were paid in other local industries, including coal-mining and the potteries. He built the largest cast iron structure of his era: the first cast-iron bridge ever built, as a crossing over the Severn near Coalbrookdale. The bridge made it possible for the village of Ironbridge to grow up around it, with the area being subsequently named Ironbridge Gorge.\n\nIn 1776 Darby married Rebecca Smith of Doncaster, and they had seven children, of whom four survived to adulthood. He died in Madeley aged only 39 and was buried in the Quaker burial ground in Coalbrookdale. His sons Francis (1783–1850) and Richard (1788–1860) both worked in the Coalbrookdale Company.\n\nA secondary school in Telford, UK, is named after Abraham Darby III. The school's name is Abraham Darby Academy.\n\nIn 1985 a rose cultivar Rosa 'Abraham Darby' bred by David C.H. Austin was named after Abraham Darby.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2011031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011031", "title": "David E. Barclay", "text": "David E. Barclay\n\nDr. David E. Barclay (born July 12, 1948) is an American historian and the author of several books on German history. He received his Ph.D. in history from Stanford University in 1975, where he studied under Gordon A. Craig. He taught at Kalamazoo College from 1974 to 2016, and presently is the Executive Director of the German Studies Association.\n\nBarclay was named a 2006-07 Berlin Prize Winner by the American Academy in Berlin.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2011045", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011045", "title": "Annamayya (film)", "text": "Annamayya (film)\n\nAnnamayya is a 1997 Indian Telugu-language biographical devotional film produced by V. Doraswamy Raju under the VMC Productions banner, directed by K. Raghavendra Rao. It stars Akkineni Nagarjuna, Mohan Babu, Suman, Ramya Krishna, Bhanupriya, Roja, Kasthuri playing the lead roles and music composed by M. M. Keeravani. The film was recorded as a \"Blockbuster\" at the box office. Later in the year 2006 the movie was dubbed in Hindi by Tirupati Shree Balaji . The film portrays the life of the 15th century composer, Annamacharya. Upon release, the film received positive reviews and won eight Nandi Awards, three Filmfare Awards and two National Film Awards. The film was premiered at the 1998 International Film Festival of India in the mainstream section.\n\nLord Vishnu listens to requests from his consort Lakshmi, that there weren't many people singing songs in praise of the Lord in Telugu language. In response, the Lord sends his sword Nandaka, to be born as Annamacharya (Annamayya) to a childless couple - Narayana Suri and Lakkamba in Tallapaka village, Kadapa District. Growing as a normal young man, Annamayya is in love with his 2 cousins Timakka and Akkalamma and thinks that his cousins are the most beautiful creations of god.\n\nLord Vishnu appears in front of Annamayya in disguise and accepts a challenge from him to show someone more beautiful than his cousins - God in the form of Lord Venkateswara in a temple in his village. Upon discovering the beauty of the Lord, Annamayya is lost in a different world and ends up making a pilgrimage to Tirumala Venkateswara Temple without planning or informing his parents. As he finds pilgrims entering the holy hills (Saptagiri- seven hills), he embarks his journey towards Him. But, he is lost and is helped by Goddess Lakshmi herself in the form of an old lady by informing him that his footwear was preventing his progress. Also weakened by fasting, Annamayya accepts Laddu - a prasadam from the food consecrated by the Lord himself. Upon reaching Tirumala, he is enthralled by the beauty of God and settles there to write and sing hymns in praise of the Lord.\n\nMeanwhile, Annamayya's parents get worried regarding Annamayya's whereabouts. Then, the Lord Venkateshwara, hearing the prayers of Lakkavaamba (Annamayya's mother), himself comes in the disguise of a Hunter along with his consorts and tells them that Annamayya lives in Tirumala.\nThen, Annamayya's parents, cousins, aunt, uncle and his 2 friends come to Tirumala and watch him worship the Lord.\n\nWhen Annamayya is asked to marry his 2 cousins, he refuses saying that his life is dedicated to the service of the Lord and marriage would become a hindrance to it. But, he is then convinced by the Lord himself who has now taken the form of a Brahmin. The Lord personally conducts the wedding of Annamayya with his cousins - Timakka and Akkalamma. After the birth of children, Annamayya settles in Tirumala leaving his children in the care of his parents. Through encounters with the local administrator (Tanikella Bharani), he comes in contact with the ruler of the country - Saluva Narasimha (Mohan Babu), who becomes a fan of his songs and make him the court poet. On hearing a \"Sringara Sankeertan\", the King and Queen (Roja) request that Annamayya sing a sankeertan in their praise as well, something Annamayya rejects as he would sing only for the Lord and not for any human being. Jailed for not heeding the King, Annamayya invokes the Lord in the form of \"Lord Narasimha\" (human-lion) and to the surprise of the King, jailors and everyone - the iron rods burst into flames and release Annamayya.\n\nRealizing that their husband was born for humanity and Lord's service, his wives give up their lives freeing Annamayya of any earthly attachment. Annamayya, realizing the divine order, takes to writing poems and sankirtans and reaches old age. Priests and Brahmins unhappy with his social inclusion of lower caste people in the temple try to destroy his writings. When Annamayya decides to sacrifice his life because all his works were lost, a significant portion of his work is saved by Lord's grace from the fire. Saluva Narasimha and Annamayya's son's convert his work from palm to copper inscriptions thus preserving his works for eternity. On completion and dedication of the work in the temple sanctum sanctorum, the Lord and his consorts appear one last time, in their divine form. The Lord grants salvation and Annamayya's soul returns as Nandaka.\n\nThis movie was considered as a Box office super hit. It is one of the biggest hits in Akkineni Nagarjuna's film career. Though there have been few changes in the original life history of Shri Tallapaka Annamacharya, one could understand these changes helped the movie to become commercially a big hit.\n\nMusic released on T-Series Audio company. All songs are blockbusters. The audio was initially released in two volumes (Vol. 1 & Vol. 2) in the Audio cassette format.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2011054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011054", "title": "Pentane interference", "text": "Pentane interference\n\nPentane interference or \"syn\"-pentane interaction is the steric hindrance that the two terminal methyl groups experience in one of the chemical conformations of n-pentane. The possible conformations are combinations of anti conformations and gauche conformations and are anti-anti, anti-gauche, gauche - gauche and gauche - gauche of which the last one is especially energetically unfavorable. In macromolecules such as polyethylene pentane interference occurs between every fifth carbon atom. The 1,3-diaxial interactions of cyclohexane derivatives is a special case of this type of interaction, although there are additional \"gauche\" interactions shared between substituents and the ring in that case. A clear example of the \"syn\"-pentane interaction is apparent in the diaxial versus diequatorial heats of formation of \"cis\" 1,3-dialkyl cyclohexanes. Relative to the diequatorial conformer, the diaxial conformer is 2-3 kcal/mol higher in energy than the value that would be expected based on \"gauche\" interactions alone. Pentane interference helps explain molecular geometries in many chemical compounds, product ratios, and purported transition states. One specific type of \"syn\"-pentane interaction is known as \"1,3 allylic strain\" or (A strain).\n\nFor instance in certain aldol adducts with 2,6-disubstituted aryl groups the molecular geometry has the vicinal hydrogen atoms in an antiperiplanar configuration both in a crystal lattice (X-ray diffraction) and in solution proton (NMR coupling constants) normally reserved for the most bulky groups i.d. both arenes:\n\nThe other contributing factor explaining this conformation is reduction in allylic strain by minimizing the dihedral angle between the arene double bond and the methine proton.\n"}
{"id": "2011056", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011056", "title": "Devin K. Grayson", "text": "Devin K. Grayson\n\nDevin Kalile Grayson is an American writer of comic books and novels. Titles that she has written include \"\", \"The Titans\", the Vertigo series \"USER\", and \"Nightwing\".\n\nDevin Grayson was born in a hippie communal farmstead in New Haven, Connecticut. When her parents divorced two years later, she and her mother relocated to Berkeley, California. Deciding at a young age that she wanted to be an actress, Grayson studied the American Conservatory Theater in San Francisco, the Drama Studio London at Berkeley, the Julia Morgan Bay Area Youth Theater Co., Cazadero Performing Arts Camp, the Berkeley Shakespeare Festival, Jean Shelton's and School of the Arts. She subsequently changed her focus to writing, enrolled in a local community college, and then at Bard College in Upstate New York. In her early 20s, she legally changed her named to the one by which she is professionally known to distance herself from abuse in her childhood.\n\nAt a young age, Grayson realized that she was bisexual, saying, \n\nI was attracted to both girls and boys very early on, but, being a kid, I had no idea that had a name. I remember being about seven and having this crush on a girl in my summer camp, Nicole. When we went swimming, her eyelashes would clump together in the most bewitching away—just like a Vegas showgirl, not that I'd ever seen one at that time—and I just thought I'd never seen anything so beautiful. At the same time, I was \"madly in love\" with the camp counselor, George. He playfully asked me to marry him, and I said we'd have to marry Nicole, too, and being in his early twenties and joking in the certainty that I wouldn't understand him, George grinned wide, grabbed a giggling Nicole, and said, \"Even better!\". \n\nThough most of the people in her life were accepting of her bisexuality, Grayson's father was initially troubled when he learned of it. He later explained to Grayson that he was worried about how it would make life difficult for her, though Grayson states that none of the problems she has ever faced in life stemmed from her sexuality, with the exception of her relationship with a girlfriend while in college that eventually ended because of her girlfriend's need to remain closeted.\n\nGrayson picked up her first comic book in her mid-twenties, after seeing an episode of \"\" on television. Though she was ignorant of the comics medium until then, as comics were not a part of her upbringing, she said of \"The Animated Series\", \"The show very clearly illustrated that he had a relationship with this kid. He raised him. And that was just an amazing, funny, scary and weird thing to think about. We've all come in late for a curfew or done something our parents didn't approve of, and you get your dad frowning over you—but what if your dad was Batman? I just become completely obsessed with that relationship.\"\n\nGrayson and her girlfriend at the time began watching the series \"compulsively\". Grayson also visited a friend who worked in a comic book store near her apartment in San Francisco and asked her friend about her namesake, Dick Grayson (aka Nightwing). Grayson left the store with a multitude of comics, including \"The Dark Knight Returns\", \"Teen Titans\", \"\", \"Watchmen\", various issues of \"Sandman\", and Scott McCloud's \"Understanding Comics\". She then began cold-calling DC Comics and spoke to \"Batman\" editor Denny O'Neil, and sent writing samples to editor Scott Peterson. She was eventually offered a job by editor Darren Vincenzo. Grayson's first comic book script to see print was \"Like Riding a Bike\", a 10-page short that appeared in \"The Batman Chronicles\" in 1997. What followed was a number of writing jobs that featured members of the Batman family of characters, in particular Nightwing, in solo or group adventures, including a 1998 \"Nightwing/Huntress\" miniseries, a 20-issue run writing \"The Titans\" from issues 1–20 from 1999–2000 (including a number of issues co-written with Brian K. Vaughan and Jay Faerber), and a run on \"Batman: Gotham Knights\", which the Chicago \"Daily Herald\"'s Russell Lissau described as a \"masterful psychological profile of the Dark Knight Detective\" that Grayson co-created and wrote until mid-2002. In July 2002, Grayson was given the opportunity to take over the writing on the regular \"Nightwing\" solo series from Chuck Dixon, beginning with issue #71, staying on the title until 2006. Grayson stated that she is drawn to both reading and writing Nightwing because she considers him to be one of DC's more complex characters, explaining:\n\nI think Dick Grayson has struggled with problems that are resonant to a lot of people: loss, grief, difficult and unyielding parent figures, the need to carve out an individual place for one's self in the world. I could gone on for hours - about Dick's complexities and the contradictions in his nature that make him so completely believable; about his amazing physical prowess and natural athleticism and how much he loves movement and fluidity and physical contact; about his intelligence and his compassion and his fierce romantic streak; about his fascinating vocational and ethnic background, and how different those things were from what he eventually grew up with in Wayne Manor; about his energy and resourcefulness and ability to be totally, stunningly present in any given moment...The character beat I find most interesting with Nightwing is how deeply he experiences frustration and pain, and then how totally done with that he is by the time he's making an actual decision or evaluation. He's not in denial about the darkness in his life the way Batman sometimes is, and in fact he's remarkably self-aware and conscientious, but he acts from a place of loyalty and gratitude and even joy.\n\nIn 2001, Grayson wrote \"User\", a three-issue miniseries about a woman named Meg Chancellor, who explores her gender identity by role-playing as a male knight in an online role-playing game. The book was nominated for the 2001 GLAAD Media Award for Outstanding Comic Book. Grayson names \"User\" as her most personal work, and described the nomination as a career high, saying, \"I have never been more proud of any achievement, or had more fun at any party. I took my mom and aunt to the ceremony with me, and we had a blast. It's just a beautiful, exciting, elegant event, and a truly right-on organization, filled with brilliant people with pro-active ideas and a great sense of humor—an all-too rare combination. I enjoyed every second of it, from flirting with the Jaguar rep to sharing a joint in the hotel kitchen with one of my favorite TV stars. Oh, and Judd Nelson talked to his dogs from his cell phone on the elevator and then started flirting with my aunt. You just don't forget a night like that!\"\n\nIn 2002, an interview with Grayson was among those published in the book \"Writers on Comic Scriptwriting\".\n\nIn 2005, she wrote a six-issue, creator-owned miniseries for DC's Wildstorm label titled \"Matador\", illustrated by Brian Stelfreeze.\n\nIn 2006 Grayson contributed an essay to the anthology \"She's Such a Geek\", which focuses on women in traditionally male venues. That year saw the publication of \"Nightwing\" #117, her last original work to date for DC Comics, and \"Head Cases\", a story in the Marvel Comics anthology \"Girl Comics\" #1, her last original work to date for Marvel or DC.\n\nIn 2009 Grayson, an avid gamer, was hired by Perfect World Entertainment hired to work on \"Kung Foo!\", a free-to-play, martial arts-themed MMORPG based on a popular Chinese TV show. Grayson was hired to take the Chinese version and write an original story that pokes fun at American pop culture and MMO conventions.\n\n\nAs of 2001, Grayson lived in the San Francisco Bay area. She is openly bisexual, and as of 2015, she and her husband live in Northern California with her two stepchildren.\n\nGrayson has insulin-dependent Type I Diabetes. She lives with Cody, an assistance dog trained to alert her to severe drops in her blood glucose levels, and volunteers for Early Alert Canines. She has also suffered from chronic depression.\n\nGrayson is an avid gamer, having spent much time playing \"Champions Online\", \"Fallen Earth\", \"World of Warcraft\", \"Anarchy Online\", \"EverQuest\", \"EverQuest 2\", \"Star Wars Galaxies\", \"Dark Age of Camelot\" and \"City of Heroes\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2011060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011060", "title": "Seraphim of Sarov", "text": "Seraphim of Sarov\n\nSeraphim of Sarov () ( – ), born Prokhor Moshnin (Прохор Мошнин), is one of the most renowned Russian saints and venerated both in the Eastern Orthodox Church and the Catholic Church. He is generally considered the greatest of the 19th-century startsy (elders). Seraphim extended the monastic teachings of contemplation, theoria and self-denial to the layperson. He taught that the purpose of the Christian life was to acquire the Holy Spirit. Perhaps his most popular quotation amongst Orthodox believers is \"\"Acquire a peaceful spirit, and thousands around you will be saved.\"\"\n\nSeraphim was canonized by the Russian Orthodox Church in 1903. Alongside his veneration in the Catholic calendar, Pope John Paul II also referred to him as a Saint.\n\nBorn 19 July (O.S.) 1754, the future saint was baptized with the name of Prochor, after Prochorus, one of the first Seven Deacons of the Early Church and the disciple of John the Evangelist. His parents, Isidore and Agathia Moshnin, lived in Kursk, Russia. His father was a merchant. According to Orthodox Church tradition, a wonderworking icon of the Theotokos (Virgin Mary), Our Lady of Kursk, healed the young boy. Seraphim later experienced a number of visions.\n\nIn 1775, at the age of 17, he visited Dorothea of Kiev.\n\nIn 1777, at the age of 19, he joined the Sarov monastery as a novice (\"poslushnik\"). He was officially tonsured (took his monastic vows) in 1786 and given the religious name of Seraphim (which means \"fiery\" or \"burning\" in Hebrew). Shortly afterwards, he was ordained a hierodeacon (monastic deacon). In 1793, he was ordained as a hieromonk (monastic priest) and became the spiritual leader of the Diveyevo Convent, which has since come to be known as the Seraphim-Diveyevo Convent.\n\nSoon after this, Seraphim retreated to a log cabin in the woods outside Sarov monastery and led a solitary lifestyle as a hermit for 25 years. During this time his feet became swollen to the point that he had trouble walking. Sarov's eating and fasting habits became more strict. At first he ate bread obtained from the monastery and vegetables from his garden, then only vegetables. For three years, he ate only grass.\n\nOne day, while chopping wood, Seraphim was attacked by a gang of thieves who beat him mercilessly with the handle of his own axe. He never resisted, and was left for dead. The robbers never found the money they sought, only an icon of the Theotokos (Virgin Mary) in his hut. Seraphim had a hunched back for the rest of his life. However, at the thieves' trial he pleaded to the judge for mercy on their behalf.\n\n\"After this incident, Seraphim spent 5 months in the monastery, recovering, and there again returned to the desert, for the former spiritual feats.\" (\"Святый преподобный Серафим Саровский чудотворец\" – стр. 14)\n\nAfter this incident Seraphim spent 1,000 successive nights on a rock in continuous prayer with his arms raised to the sky, a feat of asceticism deemed miraculous by the Eastern Orthodox Church, especially considering the pain from his injuries.\n\nIn 1815, in obedience to a reputed spiritual experience that he attributed to the Virgin Mary, Seraphim began admitting pilgrims to his hermitage as a confessor. He soon became immensely popular due to his reputation for healing powers and gift of prophecy. Hundreds of pilgrims per day visited him, drawn as well by his ability to answer his guests' questions before they could ask.\n\nAs extraordinarily harsh as Seraphim often was to himself, he was kind and gentle toward others — always greeting his guests with a prostration, a kiss, and exclaiming \"Christ is risen!\", and calling everyone \"My joy.\" He died while kneeling before an \"Umilenie\" icon of the Theotokos which he called \"Joy of all Joys\". This icon is kept currently in the chapel of the residence of the Patriarch of Moscow.\n\nThere was a widespread popular belief in Russia that a saint's remains were supposed to be incorrupt, which was not the case with Seraphim as was officially ascertained by a commission that researched his grave in January 1903. This, however, did not deter canonisation, spearheaded by archimandrite Seraphim Chichagov as well as popular veneration. At the end of January (O.S.) 1903, the Most Holy Synod, having received approval from Emperor Nicholas II, announced Seraphim's forthcoming glorification. In early July 1903, his relics were transferred from their original burial place to the church of Saints Zosimus and Sabbatius. Nicholas II and Tsarina Alexandra provided a new cypress coffin to receive the relics. The solemn canonisation (discovery of the relics) festivities took place in Sarov on 19 July (1 August) 1903 and were attended by the Tsar, his wife, his mother Empress Maria Feodorovna, and other senior members of the Imperial Family.\n\nOn 18 July 1903, Metropolitan Anthony Vadkovsky of St. Petersburg officiated at the Last Pannikhida (Memorial Service) in the Dormition Cathedral at Sarov, with the royal family in attendance. These would be the last prayers offered for Seraphim as a departed servant of God; from that time forward, prayers would instead be addressed to him as a saint. On 19 July, Seraphim's birthday, the late liturgy began at 8 o'clock. At the Little Entrance, twelve archimandrites lifted the coffin from the middle of the church and carried it around the Holy Table (altar), then placed it into a special shrine which had been constructed for them.\n\nThe festivities at Sarov ended with the consecration of the first two churches dedicated to St. Seraphim. The first had been constructed over his monastic cell in the wilderness of Sarov. The second church was consecrated on 22 July at the Diveyevo convent.\n\nFollowing the Bolshevik Revolution, Soviet authorities severely persecuted religious groups. As part of their persecution of Christians, they confiscated many relics of saints, including St. Seraphim. Furthermore, his biographer Seraphim Chichagov, who came to become a Metropolitan, was arrested, sentenced to death and executed by firing squad in 1937 (and is also celebrated as a Russian Orthodox saint).\n\nIn 1991, St. Seraphim's relics were rediscovered after being hidden in a Soviet anti-religious museum for seventy years. This caused a sensation in post-Soviet Russia and throughout the Orthodox world. A crucession (religious procession) escorted the relics, on foot, all the way from Moscow to Diveyevo Convent, where they remain to this day.\n\nOn 19 October 2016, relics of Seraphim were launched into space aboard the Soyuz MS-02.\n\nSeraphim is a patron saint of Russia's nuclear weapons.\n\n\"Acquire a peaceful spirit, and around you thousands will be saved.\"\n\n\"It is necessary that the Holy Spirit enter our heart. Everything good that we do, that we do for Christ, is given to us by the Holy Spirit, but prayer most of all, which is always available to us.\"\n\nThe available information about relations between Seraphim of Sarov and Russian Old Believers tradition is somewhat contradictory. On the one hand, in all the memoirs and biographies, and in the collections of his sayings, he is undoubtedly portrayed as a convinced supporter of the reforms in the Church and the official hierarchy. On the other hand, on icons of St. Seraphim he is usually depicted with a lestovka in his left hand, and in some cases even in old Russian, Old-Believers-style monastic garments (with a peculiar klobuk, and an old-fashioned cast bronze cross), as it is with these objects that he is depicted on the only lifetime portrait of him. The lestovka used by St. Seraphim is preserved up to this time among his personal belongings.\n\nAccording to some sources, the known problems with the beatification of Seraphim of Sarov did happen exactly due to his general support and sympathy towards the Old Believers tradition, in which case the negative assessment of the old rite, ascribed to him, would have been interpreted as inventions of his followers, who tried to put their teacher in the most favorable light in the eyes of the official church functionaries. It was also suggested that St. Seraphim could have descended from a family of Old Ritualists, or from a family of secret, cryptic Old Believers (that were widespread in northern and eastern areas of Russia), possibly with consequent gradual shift towards edinoverie.\n\nIn spite of some (alleged) controversy, St. Seraphim was known, at least at the level of official hagiography, for his rejection of the Russian old rites. The majority of old believers authors doubt virtually all the facts known about St. Seraphim, as well as the very legitimacy of his beatification, and his name is invariably used in interdenominational polemics.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2011068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011068", "title": "Joseph Jérôme Siméon", "text": "Joseph Jérôme Siméon\n\nCount Joseph Jérôme Siméon (30 September 1749 – 19 January 1842) was a French jurist and politician. His son, Joseph Balthasar, Comte Siméon, was a noted diplomat.\n\nBorn in Aix-en-Provence, he was the son of Joseph-Sextius Siméon (1717–1788), a professor of Law and royal secretary for the \"parlement\" of Provence. Joseph Jérôme Siméon followed his father's profession, but he was a pursued under the Reign of Terror for his share in the Girondist movement in 1793, and only returned to France after the Thermidorian Reaction.\n\nA deputy in the Council of the Five Hundred, he sided with the conservative side. In 1799, for protesting against the 18 Fructidor invasion of the chamber by Pierre François Augereau, he was imprisoned until the Napoleon Bonaparte's 18 Brumaire coup (9 November). In the Tribunate, Siméon had an important share in the preparation of the Napoleonic code, being rewarded by a seat in the \"Conseil d'État\" of the French Consulate.\n\nAs a figure of the First French Empire, he was one of the commissioners sent in 1807 to organize the new Kingdom of Westphalia, and was premier of King Jérôme. He served the Bourbon Restoration as councillor of state and a Peer of France. In 1820, he was under-secretary of state for Justice, and in the next year Minister of the Interior until the fall of the Armand-Emmanuel Richelieu ministry (12 December 1821).\n\nA baron of the Empire, created count by the Restoration, he was admitted to the Academy of Political and Moral Sciences in 1832, and in 1837 he became president of the Cour des Comptes. He died in Paris aged 93. His daughter Eleonora married General Giuseppe Lechi.\n"}
{"id": "2011073", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011073", "title": "Health Center Consolidation Act", "text": "Health Center Consolidation Act\n\nThe Health Center Consolidation Act of 1996 in the United States is commonly also called Section 330. The Act brings together various funding mechanisms for the country's community health facilities, such as migrant/seasonal farmworker health centers, healthcare for the homeless, health centers and health centers for residents of public housing. Previously, each of these organizations were provided grants under numerous other mechanisms.\n\nThe S. 1044 legislation was passed by the 104th U.S. Congressional session and enacted into law by the 42nd President of the United States Bill Clinton on October 11, 1996.\n\n"}
{"id": "2011081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011081", "title": "Sumela Monastery", "text": "Sumela Monastery\n\nSumela Monastery (, \"Moní Panagías Soumelá\"; ) is a Greek Orthodox monastery dedicated to the Virgin Mary (Panagia, meaning \"The all-holy one\" in Greek, a title often used for the Virgin Mary) at Melá Mountain (Turkish: \"Karadağ\", which is a direct translation of the Greek name \"Sou Melá\", \"Black Mountain\") within the Pontic Mountains (Turkish: \"Kuzey Anadolu Dağları\") range, in the Maçka district of Trabzon Province in modern Turkey.\n\nAccording to another etymological theory regarding the origin of the monastery's name, it comes from the Laz word \"სუმელა\" [sumela], which means \"Trinity\" in English.\n\nNestled in a steep cliff at an altitude of about facing the Altındere valley, it is a site of great historical and cultural significance, as well as a major tourist attraction within Altındere National Park. Due to an increase in rock falls, on 22 September 2015 the monastery was closed to the public for safety reasons for the duration of one year to resolve the problem; this was later extended to three years. It reopened to tourists 25 May 2019. The Monastery is one of the most important historic and touristic venues in Trabzon. \n\nThe monastery was founded in AD 386 during the reign of the Emperor Theodosius I (375 - 395). According to William Miller, Barnabas and Sophronios, two Athenian monks, founded the monastery. It became famous for an icon of the Virgin Mary known as the \"Panagia Gorgoepekoos\", said to have been painted by the Apostle Luke.\n\nDuring its long history, the monastery fell into ruin several times and was restored by various emperors. During the 6th century, it was restored and enlarged by General Belisarius at the behest of Justinian.\n\nIt reached its present form in the 13th century after gaining prominence during the existence of the Empire of Trebizond. While the Emperors Basil and John II had endowed the monastery richly, it was during the reign of Alexios III (1349–1390) that Sumela received its most important largess: according to legend, the young Alexios was saved from a storm by the Virgin, and was bidden by her to restore the monastery. A chrysobull dated to 1365 confirms the freedom and autonomy of the monastery, together with all of its hereditary lands and dependents; exempts them from all taxes, except for one biannual tax; and restores to it the serfs whom the tax-collectors of Matzouka had illegally taken from it, listing 40 of the serfs by name. At that time, the monastery was granted an amount annually from imperial funds. During the time of Manuel III, son of Alexios III, and during the reigns of subsequent princes, Sumela gained further wealth from imperial grants. Following the conquest by the Ottoman Sultan Mehmed II in 1461, it was granted the sultan's protection and given rights and privileges that were renewed by following sultans. The monastery remained a popular destination for monks and travelers through the years.\n\nIn 1682 and for the following decades, the monastery housed the Phrontisterion of Trapezous, a well-known Greek educational institution of the region.\n\nThe monastery was abandoned in 1923, following the forced removal of the Greek population in this region. The departing monks were not allowed to take any property with them, so they buried Sumela's famous icon under the floor of the monastery's St. Barbara chapel. In 1930, a monk secretly returned to Sumela and retrieved the icon, transferring it to the new Panagia Soumela Monastery, on the slopes of Mount Vermion, near the town of Naousa, in Macedonia, Greece.\n\nA fire was started in 1930 and the wooden parts of the Sumela Monastery were destroyed. In the following years, looters and vandals damaged the other parts of the Monastery.\n\nToday the monastery's primary function is as a tourist attraction. It overlooks forests and streams, making it extremely popular for its aesthetic attraction as well as for its cultural and religious significance.\n\nAs of 2012, the Turkish government is funding reconstruction work, and the monastery is enjoying a revival in pilgrimage from Greece and Russia.\n\nOn 15 August 2010, Orthodox divine liturgy was allowed to take place in the monastery compound. A special pass issued by the Ecumenical Patriarchate of Constantinople is now required to visit on August 15, the day of the Dormition of the Theotokos or Feast of the Assumption, when a divine liturgy is held. Only 450 to 500 visitors are allowed inside the monastery, although widescreen televisions are available to observe the event at a cafe some hundred meters away from the monastery.\n\nOn 22 September 2015, the Monastery was closed to visitors for three years due to necessary restoration and field work.\n\nThe principal elements of the Monastery complex are the Rock Church, several chapels, kitchens, student rooms, a guesthouse, a library, and a sacred spring revered by Eastern Orthodox Christians.\n\nThe large aqueduct at the entrance, which supplied water to the Monastery, is constructed against the side of the cliff. The aqueduct has many arches which have mostly been restored. The entrance to the Monastery leads up a long and narrow stairway. There is a guard-room next to the entrance. The stairs lead down from there to the inner courtyard. On the left, in front of a cave, there are several monastery buildings. The cave, which was converted into a church, constitutes the center of the monastery. The library is to the right.\n\nThe large building with a balcony on the front part of the cliff was used for the monks' cells and for housing guests. It dates from 1840.\n\nThe inner and outer walls of the Rock Church and the walls of the adjacent chapel are decorated with frescoes. Frescoes dating from the era of Alexios III of Trebizond line the inner wall of the Rock Church facing the courtyard. The frescoes of the chapel which were painted on three levels in three different periods are dated to the beginning of the 18th century. The frescoes of the bottom band are of superior quality.\n\nThe frescoes of the monastery are seriously damaged due to vandalism. The main subject of the frescoes are biblical scenes telling the story of Christ and the Virgin Mary.\n\nDuring the 2015-2017 restoration works, a secret tunnel was discovered which lead to a place which is believed to have served as a temple or chapel for Christians. Also, unseen frescoes were discovered depicting heaven and hell as well as life and death.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2011090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011090", "title": "Psycho IV: The Beginning", "text": "Psycho IV: The Beginning\n\nPsycho IV: The Beginning is a 1990 American made-for-television horror film directed by Mick Garris that serves as both the third sequel and a prequel to Alfred Hitchcock's \"Psycho\", as it includes both events after \"Psycho III\" while focusing on flashbacks of events that took place prior to the original film. It is the fourth and final film in the original \"Psycho\" franchise.\n\nIt stars Anthony Perkins reprising the role of Norman Bates (for the final time before his death in 1992) and co-stars Henry Thomas, Olivia Hussey and CCH Pounder. The film was written by Joseph Stefano, who also wrote the screenplay of the original film. The musical score was composed by Graeme Revell and the title theme music by Bernard Herrmann from the original film was used. \"Psycho IV: The Beginning\" world premiered on Showtime on November 10, 1990 as part of a \"Psycho\" retrospective hosted by Janet Leigh.\n\nA once-again rehabilitated Norman Bates is now married to a psychiatrist named Connie and is expecting a child. Norman secretly fears that the child will inherit his mental illness, so he must seek closure once and for all.\n\nRadio talk show host Fran Ambrose is discussing the topic of matricide with her guest Dr. Richmond, Norman's former psychologist. Norman calls the show, using the alias \"Ed\", to tell his story.\n\nNorman's narrative is seen as a series of flashbacks set in the 1940s and 1950s, some slightly out of order. When Norman is six years old, his father dies, leaving him in the care of his mother, Norma. Over the years, Norma (who is implied to suffer from schizophrenia and borderline personality disorder) dominates her son, teaching him that sex is sinful, dressing him in girl's clothes and lipstick as punishment for getting an erection during potentially incestuous foreplay that Norma initiated in the first place. She also takes her frustration out on Norman when business at the hotel fails due to the new interstate routing potential customers away from their location.\n\nThe two live in contented isolation at the large house as if there is no one else in the world until, in 1949, she becomes engaged to a brutish man named Chet Rudolph. Driven over the edge with jealousy and Chet's abuse (which Norma encourages), Norman kills both of them by serving them poisoned iced tea. He then steals and preserves his mother's corpse. He develops a split personality in which he \"becomes\" his mother to suppress the guilt of murdering her; whenever this personality takes over, it drives him to dress in his mother's clothes, put on a wig, and talk to himself in her voice. As \"Mother\", he murders two local women who try to seduce him during their stay at his newly opened motel.\n\nIn the present day, Dr. Richmond realizes \"Ed\" is Norman and tries to convince Ambrose to trace the calls. Richmond's worries are dismissed. Norman fears he will go insane and kill again. He tells Fran that Connie got pregnant against his wishes and that he does not want to create another \"monster\". He then tells Fran he realizes that his mother is dead, but he fears that his mother may repossess him and kill Connie \"with my own hands, just like the first time.\"\n\nNorman takes his wife to his mother's house and does attempt to kill her, but Connie reminds Norman that it was his own choice to go insane and do the things he did (also expressing that she never murdered anyone) and reassures Norman that their child will not be a monster with their guidance; he realizes the truth to having freedom of choice, and he drops his knife. Connie forgives him. Finally, Norman impulsively sets fire to the house where all his unhappiness began. As he tries to escape the flames, he hallucinates that he sees his victims, his mother and eventually himself preserving her corpse. Norman barely flees the burning house alive.\n\nHe and Connie leave the next day. Norman happily proclaims, \"I'm free,\" indicating that his mother will never again haunt his mind and drive him insane. Then, the wooden doors of the house cellar close on the rocking chair that continues to rock; at which point \"Mother\" screams, even breaking down crying, for Norman to release her before the screen cuts to black and the sound of a baby crying is heard.\n\n\n\"Psycho IV: The Beginning\" was filmed at Universal Studios Florida in Orlando, Florida from June 4 to July 1, 1990. The facade of the Bates Motel and the Bates mansion were re-created at the theme park. The production was originally to be filmed before the opening of the park but due to delays and the studio's desire to have a high-profile production on the lot, the film was shot while the park was open. This led to tourists being able to watch the filming of several scenes at the motel and house on the back lot. Anthony Perkins wanted Noel Black, who directed him in \"Pretty Poison\", to direct the film, and he even came up with a pitch for the film along with \"Psycho III\"s screenwriter, Charles Edward Pogue. Since \"Psycho III\" was a critical and financial failure, Universal rejected their idea and Mick Garris was brought in. Joseph Stefano, the screenwriter of the original film, was brought back to write the fourth film. He had disliked the first two \"Psycho\" sequels, feeling that they were too commercial and catered to the conventions of slasher films. In an interview, Stefano stated, \"Gearing up for \"Psycho IV,\" I decided to ignore the two sequels – like the business in \"II\" about Norman's mother.\"\n\nActress Olivia Hussey was directly offered the role of Mrs. Bates. It was the intention of writer Joseph Stefano to make her at a young age as attractive as Norman had been in the first film. When Henry Thomas was cast as the young Norman Bates, Perkins wanted to meet with him and discuss the role. Thomas stated, in the documentary \"The Psycho Legacy\", \"Looking back on it now, he knew he had to have this conversation with me but I don't think that he was really into it. He just gave me a few broad strokes and told me to play the character real, that was it.\" During filming, Perkins was diagnosed with HIV and had to receive treatment during production. Director Mick Garris has stated in numerous interviews that he had some creative control issues with Perkins. \"He would get into long, drawn-out discussions in front of the crew, testing his director, making sure choices were not made 'because it looks good,' and seeing how deep the understanding of the story and process were. He could be very forceful, just shy of bullying, but also really appreciated helpful direction. I would have to say he was the most difficult and challenging actor I've ever worked with, but he ended up going on and on about how happy he was with the film. That was gratifying.\"\n\nThe film was met with mixed reviews when first broadcast on Showtime. Henry Stewart of \"L Magazine\" said: \"Garris evinces high-grade professionalism, but his comic-book approximations of real emotions—like desire, madness and murderlust—feel empty. Hitchcock this most certainly ain't.\" Some reviewers received the film with greater optimism. Ninjadixon.com stated: \"This is a good TV movie, way better than its reputation, and continues the tradition of great acting in the series.\" Cultreviews.com said: \"The film is shot well, the fire sequence, by Rodney Charters, is particularly stunning. The only real trouble with this film is the bad writing, which, considering that it was the baby of the scriptwriter of the original, Joseph Stefano, is very disappointing indeed.\" Matt Poirier of Directtovideoconnoisseur.com stated: \"This was a pretty unmemorable movie. It tried to make references to the original, like one where Perkins cuts his thumb, and the blood going into the drain mimics the blood in the famous shower scene. Way too obvious and pretty obnoxious.\" Despite some negative reviews, the film received high Nielsen ratings with around 10 million viewers watching the premiere. Two years after the film was released, it was nominated for a Saturn award for Best Genre Television Series.\n\nAlthough Stefano did not immediately disclose his decision to ignore the two sequels (thus ignoring the character of Norman's aunt Emma Spool), horror fiction writer and critic Robert Price has noted that \"\"Psycho IV\" seems to be intended as a direct sequel to the original \"Psycho\", with no reference to \"Psycho II\" or \"III\". Norman may have been healed and released from his first confinement, not from the confinement that takes place at the end of \"Psycho III\".\" Horror writer James Futch regards this as a defect, complaining that the film \"ignores much of the \"Psycho\" mythology\".\n\n\"Psycho IV: The Beginning\" was released on VHS and Laserdisc by MCA Universal Home Video in 1991. It was later re-issued on VHS by GoodTimes Home Video, under license from Universal Studios Home Video in 1998.\n\nThe film was released on DVD in Region 1 as part of a triple feature package with \"Psycho II\" and \"Psycho III\" on August 14, 2007 by Universal Studios Home Entertainment. Universal has also released some four-title Region 2 packages that include the 1960 original. A single-disc Region 2 version of \"Psycho IV\" (titled \"Psychose: L'origine\") was released in France in 2007 by Aventi Distribution.\n\nOn August 23, 2016, Shout! Factory, under their Scream Factory logo, released the film on Blu-ray.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2011097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011097", "title": "Joseph Balthazard Siméon", "text": "Joseph Balthazard Siméon\n\nCount Joseph Balthazard Siméon (1781–1846), was a French politician.\n\nHe was the son of Joseph Jérôme, Comte Siméon. He entered the diplomatic service under the Empire. At the Restoration he was successively prefect of Var, Doubs and Pas-de-Calais. He was director-general of fine arts in 1828, and had a great reputation as a connoisseur and collector.\n"}
{"id": "2011100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011100", "title": "Battle of Sellasia", "text": "Battle of Sellasia\n\nThe Battle of Sellasia took place during the summer of 222 BC between Macedon and the Achaean League, led by Antigonus III Doson, and Sparta under the command of King Cleomenes III. The battle was fought at Sellasia on the northern frontier of Laconia and ended in a Macedonian-Achaean victory.\n\nIn 229 BC, Cleomenes initiated hostilities against the Achaean League, the dominant power of the Peloponnese. In a series of campaigns, Cleomenes was successful in defeating the Achaeans, making Sparta the main regional power. This prompted the chief figure of the Achaean League, Aratus of Sicyon, to approach the King of Macedon, Antigonus III Doson, for military assistance. The Macedonians acquiesced on the terms that the Achaean surrender the formidable fortress of Acrocorinth to them. The Macedonians invaded the Peloponnese in 224 BC at the head of a Greek alliance and by 222 BC managed to hem Cleomenes in Laconia.\n\nIn the summer of 222 BC, the Macedonian and Achaean army advanced to Sellasia on the northern border of Laconia, where they encountered the awaiting army of Cleomenes. After a brief impasse, Antigonus launched an offensive against the Spartan positions on the fortified mountains of Olympus and Evas. While the Macedonian right flank routed the Spartan left wing on Evas, the battle on the other flank was heavily contested. After initially pushing back the Macedonian phalanx, the Spartans were driven from the field by the superior numbers of the Macedonians. Cleomenes was compelled to leave for exile in Alexandria and Antigonus became the first non-Spartan general to occupy Sparta.\n\nThe seizure of numerous important Arcadian cities by the King of Sparta, Cleomenes III, prompted the dominant state of the Peloponnese, the Achaean League to declare war on Sparta. The Achaean attempts to recaptured these cities, led by the strategos, Aratus of Sicyon, largely failed as Sparta consolidated its position. Subsequent Achaean offensives in 226 BC were crushingly defeated at the Battle of Mount Lycaeum and the Battle of Ladoceia.\n\nThe Achaean position was additionally weakened when their erstwhile ally, Ptolemy III of Egypt, shifted his financial backing to Sparta. Ptolemy had been subsidising the campaign of the Achaeans against Macedon and now determined that Sparta would be a more effective ally to offset Macedonian power. This was compounded by the resounding Spartan victory over the Achaean army at the Battle of Dyme, leading the League to seek peace with Cleomenes.\n\nWhen the peace talks failed, Aratus sent envoys to the Macedonian King, Antigonus III Doson, seeking military assistance. Antigonus pledged to give aid on the term that the formidable citadel, Acrocorinth was ceded to Macedon. This conditions elicited a furious response from many Achaeans and Cleomenes used this to his advantage by occupying the major cities of Corinth and Argos and many smaller settlements. Aratus accepted the terms proposed by the Macedonians and additionally surrendered the cities of Orchomenus and Heraia to Macedon. Subsequently, Antigonus mustered his army for the invasion of the Peloponnese.\n\nAntigonus marched towards the Peloponnese with a large army of 20,000 infantry and 1,300 cavalry via the island of Euboea. They resorted to this after having their passage blocked by the hostile Aetolian League, who threatened to block their march if they went further south. After reaching the Isthmus of Corinth, the Macedonian army found their march halted by a series of fortifications that Cleomenes had erected across the Isthmus. Several attempts to breach the fortifications were repulsed with considerable losses.\n\nArgos, however, revolted against Sparta and expelled their garrison with the help of some Macedonian soldiers. This defeat forced Cleomenes to abandon his position on the Isthmus and to retreat back to Arcadia. Meanwhile, Antigonus revived the Hellenic League of Philip II of Macedon under the name of the \"League of Leagues\" and managed to incorporate most of the Greek city-states in this League.\n\nAntigonus proceeded to capture several cities in Arcadia that had sided with Cleomenes. He returned to Achaea before dismissing his Macedonian troops so that they could winter at home. Around this time, Ptolemy of Egypt stopped paying subsidies to Cleomenes, which left Cleomenes without money with which to pay for his mercenaries. In order to obtain money, Cleomenes began to sell helots their freedom in exchange for a sum of money.\n\nCleomenes became aware of the fact that Antigonus had dismissed all of his Macedonian troops and decided to launch a raid on the Achaean League. He gave the impression that he was going to raid the territory of Argos but instead switched directions and attacked Megalopolis. The Spartans managed to overrun a weak section of the fortifications and began to take over the city. The citizens of Megalopolis were not aware that the Spartans were in the city until dawn after which a rearguard action by some of the citizens allowed most of the Megalopolitans to escape. Cleomenes sent the Megalopolitans a message offering back their city if they joined his alliance but when this offer was refused, Cleomenes ordered that the city be sacked and razed.\n\nThe sack of Megalopolis came as a big shock for the Achaean League. Cleomenes followed this success up by raiding the territory of Argos, as he knew Antigonus could not resist him due to a lack of men. Cleomenes had also hoped that a raid on Argive territory would make the Argives lose faith in Antigonus because of his failure to protect their land. Walbank assess this raid as being \"an impressive demonstration, but it had no effect other than to make it even more clear that Cleomenes had to be defeated in a pitched battle.\"\n\nAntigonus responded to this raid by recalling his army from Macedon. The Macedonian levy marching on Laconia was augmented by the contingents from allies, who had mustered in the Peloponnese. Polybius describes the amassed army as consisting of 29,200 men. The Macedonian contribution to this force was 10,000 phalangists, 3,000 peltasts, and 300 cavalry, a figure supplemented by the addition of 1,000 Agrianes, 1,600 Illyrians commanded by Demetrius of Pharos, and 1,000 Galatians, as well as 3,000 other mercenary infantry and 300 cavalry. The size of army was greatly increased by the contingents of the Greek allies. The Achaeans supplied 3,000 infantry and 300 cavalry, the Arcadians 1,000 infantry from Megalopolis commanded by Cercidas, the Boeotians 2,000 infantry and 200 cavalry, the Acarnanians 1,000 infantry and 50 cavalry, and the Epirotes 1,000 infantry and 50 cavalry.\n\nTo counter the Macedonian invasion, Cleomenes moved to raise the largest force that he was able. He was able to muster an army of 20,650 men. This consisted of the Spartan levy of hoplites, possibly 2,000 Lacedaimonians armed in the fashion of Macedonian phalangists, contingents of perioeci, and mercenaries with 650 cavalry. Cleomenes managed to fortify the passes leading into Laconia with a series of barricades and trenches before moving with his army to assume a position at the pass at Sellasia on the northern frontier of Laconia.\n\nWhen Antigonus and his army arrived at Sellasia, they found the Spartan army occupying strong positions on the hills, Olympus and Euas, with the Oenous River running between them. Eucleidas with the perioeci and the allies were stationed on Euas, while Cleomenes held Olympus with the Spartans and mercenaries. On the flat ground between the hills, Cleomenes deployed his cavalry and the remainder of his mercenaries. The strength of the Spartan deployment prompted the Macedonians to not launch an immediate assault against the Lacedaemonians.\n\nAntigonus placed his phalanxes facing the Lacedaemonian infantry which was arrayed at the top of the two hills, with the order to advance and take the heights. His cavalry of Macedonians, Achaeans, Boeotians, and mercenaries under the command of Alexander, were arrayed in front of the enemy cavalry in the centre. The allied right wing advanced against the Lacedaemonians on Euas, but was attacked in the flank by enemy infantry that was initially arrayed with the cavalry. Without cover from their heavy infantry, the advancing allies were hard pressed by the Spartans from the rear and the front, until the Arcadian cavalryman Philopoemen, disregarding the orders, charged with the men who would follow. This timely initiative saved the light infantry on Euas from annihilation and paved the way to victory, as the Illyrians and other light infantry soon drove the Spartans from the hill and killed Eucleidas. After the battle, Antigonus praised Philopoemen's initiative and reproved his own commander Alexander.\n\nThe battle on Olympus between the two phalanxes lasted longer, but when the allied reinforcements from Euas took the enemy in the flank, the Spartans fought almost to the last man, until their king fled the field with a handful of companions. According to Plutarch, out of 6,000 Spartiates, only 200 survived, the others preferring honourable death to disgrace. Accompanied by his closest friends, Cleomenes took a ship in Gythium to reach his mother and sons in Alexandria where he stayed in exile until his death three years later.\n\n"}
{"id": "2011103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011103", "title": "Nanni Moretti", "text": "Nanni Moretti\n\nGiovanni \"Nanni\" Moretti (; born 19 August 1953) is an Italian film director, producer, screenwriter and actor. The Palme d'Or winner in 2001, in 2012 he was the President of the Jury at the Cannes Film Festival.\n\nMoretti was born in Bruneck, South Tyrol, Italy, to Roman parents who were both teachers. His father was the late epigraphist Luigi Moretti, a Greek teacher at Sapienza University of Rome. While growing up he discovered his two passions, the cinema and water polo. Having finished his studies he pursued a career as a producer, and in 1973 directed his first two short films: \"Pâté de bourgeois\" and \"The Defeat\" (\"La sconfitta\"). His brother is literary scholar Franco Moretti.\n\nIn 1976, Giovanni's first feature film \"Io sono un autarchico\" (\"I am Self-Sufficient\") was released. In 1978 he wrote, directed and starred in the movie \"Ecce Bombo\", which tells the story of a student having problems with his entourage. It was screened at the Cannes Festival. \"Sogni d'oro\" won the Silver Lion at the 38th Venice International Film Festival. \"La messa è finita\" won the Silver Bear – Special Jury Prize at the 36th Berlin International Film Festival. \n\nHe may be best known for his films \"Caro diario\" (\"Dear Diary\", 1993; followed in 1998 by a sequel, \"Aprile\") and \"La stanza del figlio\" (\"The Son's Room\", 2001), the latter of which won the Palme d'Or at the 2001 Cannes Film Festival.\n\nMoretti has used certain actors several times in his films, generally playing minor roles. His father Luigi appears in 6 films, Dario Cantarelli and Mauro Fabretti in 5, Antonio Petrocelli in 4. More notable Italian actors he has employed frequently in his films include Silvio Orlando, who appears in 5 films (including the role of protagonist in \"Il caimano\") and Laura Morante, who featured in \"Sogni d'oro\", \"Bianca\" and \"The Son's Room\". \n\nHaving played waterpolo in the B division of the Italian championship, his experience later inspired his film \"Palombella Rossa\" (\"palombella,\" which literally means \"little pigeon,\" refers to a type of lob shot). His other work has not been widely seen outside Europe, but within his country Moretti is known as a maker of wryly humorous and eccentric films, usually starring himself. His most recent role was in the film \"Mia Madre\" (\"My Mother\", 2015)\n\nMoretti is also an outspoken political leftist: in 2002 he organized street protests against the government of Silvio Berlusconi. \"Il caimano\" (2006) is in part about Berlusconi's controversies: in one of the three portraits of the Italian prime minister Moretti himself plays Berlusconi. \"Aprile\" also deals with Italy's political situation and Moretti's views on it. His 2011 film \"We Have a Pope\" screened In Competition at the 2011 Cannes Film Festival.\n\nHe lives in Rome, having been resident since birth, where he is co-owner of a small movie theater, Nuovo Sacher. The short film, \"Il Giorno della prima di Close Up\" (\"Opening Day of Close-Up\", 1996), shows Moretti at his theatre attempting to encourage patrons to attend the opening day of Abbas Kiarostami's film, \"Close Up\".\n\nHe is not religious. In his words, \"I remember the shirts that said 'Thank God I'm an atheist'. Funny. But I do not think so. I'm not a believer and I'm sorry.\"\n\nHis 2015 film \"Mia Madre\" was selected to compete for the Palme d'Or at the 2015 Cannes Film Festival.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2011112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011112", "title": "Celebrity Constellation", "text": "Celebrity Constellation\n\nGTS \"Celebrity Constellation is a \"Millennium\"-class cruise ship of Celebrity Cruises. She was originally named Constellation\", but renamed in May 2007. Her three sister ships are the \"Celebrity Infinity\", \"Celebrity Summit\", and \"Celebrity Millennium.\"\n\nShe was built at the Chantiers de l'Atlantique shipyard in St. Nazaire, France. The ship is powered by a COGAS power plant of gas turbines and a steam turbine providing up to 60 megawatts for the electric systems and two 19 MW Rolls-Royce/Alstom \"MerMaid\" azimuth thrusters for propulsion. In 2007, an additional diesel engine was fitted as a fuel-saving measure. The ship can run on any combination of the gas turbines or diesel. In port, she generates electrical power from the diesel.\n\nDuring the summer period the ship sails to the Mediterranean and the Caribbean (winter).\n\n\"Celebrity Constellation\" is scheduled to complete an extensive renovation in May 2020.\n\n\"Celebrity Constellation\" currently operates in the Mediterranean and Adriatic during the summer seasons and in the Persian Gulf during the rest of the calendar year. In October 2020, she will reposition to Tampa, Florida to cruise the Caribbean and the Panama Canal, the first time Celebrity has operated out of Tampa in 13 years.\n\n"}
{"id": "2011114", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011114", "title": "Gene Osborn", "text": "Gene Osborn\n\nGene Osborn (August 10, 1922 – November 27, 1975) was a radio and television sportscaster in the 1950s, 1960s and 1970s, known primarily as a play-by-play for several major league baseball teams.\nHe also had a substantial career in radio and television sports in Albuquerque, New Mexico, which he considered his adopted hometown.\n\nOsborn, the son of Elizabeth (née Collins) and James Osborn, was born and raised in Davenport, Iowa, where he played baseball and other sports. He attended St. Ambrose University, then known as St. Ambrose College. Osborn was considered a top draft prospect for the St. Louis Cardinals. But his playing days were cut short when he suffered a knee injury. Osborn began his broadcast career in 1942 at station WQUA in Moline, Illinois.\n\nIn 1953, Osborn arrived in Albuquerque, where he soon became the sports director of radio station KABQ (AM). He did play-by-play broadcast for the Albuquerque Dukes of the West Texas–New Mexico League (and later the Western League). He was also the broadcaster for University of New Mexico football and basketball. In 1954, Osborn was elected president of the Albuquerque Pressbox Association. Also in the mid-fifties, Osborn became sports director at Albuquerque television station KOAT-TV, channel 7, an ABC affiliate. Later, the Dukes broadcasts were switched to KGGM, 610 AM, and Osborn went there.\n\nFrom 1959 to 1964, Osborn broadcast The Game of the Day on the Mutual Broadcasting System and also did University of Michigan and Michigan State University sports broadcasts.\n\nIn 1965, Osborn was hired as a radio announcer for the Detroit Tigers, working with legendary announcer Ernie Harwell. Osborn was fired after the 1966 season and replaced by Ray Lane. Osborn then returned to Albuquerque, where Doubleday Broadcasting, the then-new owners of radio station KDEF 1150 AM, hired him as sports director. Once again, Gene Osborn would be the voice of UNM Lobo sports. He also resumed duties as sports director at KOAT television.\n\nOsborn then worked with Bob Prince and Nellie King on the KDKA broadcasts of the Pittsburgh Pirates during the 1970 season. He became KOAT sports director in Albuquerque again in 1971. He left the Duke City in 1972 to work with Harry Caray, broadcasting the games of the Chicago White Sox over WMAQ. Throughout all of these moves, Osborn's family maintained its home in Albuquerque. Osborn and his wife were active in Albuquerque community affairs. For example, Gene Osborn was the chairman of the New Mexico campaign for cystic fibrosis research in 1971.\n\nIn 1974, Osborn became the sports director of TV station KMBA in Kansas City, Missouri, where he covered the NHL Kansas City Scouts as well as handling telecasts of the Kansas City Royals in 1975. During his career, Osborn also did broadcasts of the Detroit Red Wings NHL team.\n\nOsborn died of kidney failure on November 27, 1975 at age 53 in Kansas City.\n"}
{"id": "2011127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011127", "title": "Stavros Niarchos", "text": "Stavros Niarchos\n\nStavros Spyrou Niarchos (, ; 3 July 1909 – 16 April 1996) was a billionaire Greek shipping tycoon. Starting in 1952, he had the world's biggest supertankers built for his fleet. Propelled by both the Suez Crisis and an increasing demand for oil, he and rival Aristotle Onassis became giants in global petroleum shipping.\n\nNiarchos was also a noted thoroughbred horse breeder and racer, several times the leading owner and number one on the French breed list.\n\nStavros was born in Athens to a wealthy family, son of Spyros Niarchos and his wife, Eugenie Koumantaros, a rich heiress. His great-great-grandfather, Philippos Niarchos, a Greek shipping agent in Valletta, had married a daughter from a noble family in Malta, whose younger offspring had moved to Greece to base themselves in a merchant business from Malta.\n\nHis parents were naturalized Americans who had owned a department store in Buffalo, New York before returning to Greece, three months prior to his birth. They returned to Buffalo for a brief time and the young Stavros attended the Nardin Academy grammar school. They returned permanently to Greece and Stavros studied in the city's best private school before starting university. He studied law at the University of Athens, after which he went to work for his maternal uncles in the Koumantaros family's grain business. During this period, he became involved in shipping by convincing his uncles their firm would be more profitable if it owned its own ships.\n\nNiarchos was a naval officer in World War II, during which time part of the trade fleet he had developed with his uncle was destroyed. He used about two million dollars in insurance settlement to build a new fleet. His most famous asset was the yacht \"Atlantis\", currently known as \"Issham al Baher\" after having been gifted to King Fahd of Saudi Arabia.\n\nHe then founded Niarchos Ltd., an international shipping company that at one time operated more than 80 tankers worldwide. He and Aristotle Onassis were great shipping rivals. In 1952, high-capacity oil supertankers were built for the competing Niarchos and Onassis fleets, who both claimed to own the largest tanker in the world. In 1955, Vickers Armstrongs Shipbuilders Ltd launched the . Then the world's largest supertanker, it was named after Niarchos' second son, Spyros, born earlier that year.\n\nIn 1956, the Suez Canal Crisis considerably increased the demand for the type of large-tonnage ships that Niarchos owned. Business flourished and he became a billionaire.\n\nNiarchos was married five times:\n\n\nFrom the late 1970s until his death, he was linked to Princess Firyal of Jordan. He was also said to be linked to Princess Maria Gabriella of Savoy.\n\nNiarchos had two daughters and three sons:\n\n\nNiarchos died in 1996, in Zurich. He is buried in the family tomb in the Bois-de-Vaux Cemetery in Lausanne. At his death, his fortune was estimated to be worth $12 billion. When Niarchos died, he left 20% his fortune to a charitable trust to be established in his name and the other part to his three sons and daughter Maria by his marriage to Greek shipping heiress Eugenia Livanos, a nephew, and a great nephew. He notably excluded Elena Ford his daughter by his ex-wife Charlotte from his will. She sued the estate in both Swiss and Greek courts for her 1/10th share estimated to be worth £700 million.\n\nNiarchos began investing in thoroughbred horse racing in the early 1950s and won his first stakes race with Pipe of Peace at the Middle Park Stakes. After leaving the business for roughly two decades he came back in the 1970s and eventually put together a highly successful stable of racehorses that competed in France and the United Kingdom. He acquired the Haras de Fresnay-le-Buffard horse breeding farm in Neuvy-au-Houlme, France and Oak Tree Farm in Lexington, Kentucky where in 1984 he bred his most successful horse, Miesque. Niarchos was the leading owner in France twice (1983, 1984) and topped the breeders' there list three times (1989, 1993, 1994). His prize horses were all trained by François Boutin, whose skill was a vital element of Niarchos' success in the field.\n\nAfter his death in 1996, his daughter Maria Niarchos-Gouazé took charge of racing operations. She too was successful, her colt Bago winning France's most important race, the Prix de l'Arc de Triomphe, in 2004, and her filly Divine Proportions capturing the 2005 Prix de Diane by winning 9 out of her 10 races until a serious tendon injury cut the horse's racing career short.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2011136", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011136", "title": "Custodian of the Standard Book of Common Prayer", "text": "Custodian of the Standard Book of Common Prayer\n\nThe Book of Common Prayer according to the use of the Episcopal Church contains the liturgy used in its worship services and for other religious gatherings. The BCP and its predecessors are descended from the prayer books used by the Church of England. There have been four versions of the United States Prayer Book that have been used. They are known by the year of issuance: 1789, 1892, 1928, and 1979. In 1784, in order to bring about the consecration of America's first bishop, Samuel Seabury of Connecticut, in Scotland, a \"concordat was signed by Seabury and the Scottish bishops\" who consecrated him pledging use of the Scottish Eucharistic Rite by the Episcopal Church then, thus \"following Scottish structure\" (with some of its liturgy derived from Eastern Orthodox) and circumventing the Church of England.\n\nThe current edition dates from 1979 and is marked by an attempt to return to full lay participation in all services and the recovery of the Eucharist as the principal service of the church. The 1979 version also reduces the emphasis of personal sin. There was enough strife in implementing and adopting the 1979 BCP that a \"resolution of apology\" was issued at the 2000 General Convention. Authorized supplemental materials have also been released in the last several years.\n\nAfter approval, the official text is controlled by the custodian. The first custodian was appointed by the 1868 General Convention to keep the plates and a copy of the Standard Book for the General Convention. The 1871 General Convention granted the custodian the responsibility for recording any alterations made by the General Convention in the BCP. The custodian is nominated by the House of Bishops and confirmed by the House of Deputies, and serves until a successor is appointed.\n\n\"Source: The Episcopal Church website.\"\n+ Source: Don S. Armentrout and Robert Boak Slocum, Documents of Witness, A History of the Episcopal Church 1982-1985 (CHC: 1994).\n"}
{"id": "2011150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011150", "title": "Adamello-Presanella Alps", "text": "Adamello-Presanella Alps\n\nThe Adamello-Presanella Alps Alpine group is a mountain range in the Southern Limestone Alps mountain group of the Eastern Alps. It is located in northern Italy, in the provinces of Trentino and Brescia. The name stems from its highest peaks: Adamello and Presanella.\n\nThe Adamello-Presanella Group is separated from the Ortler Alps in the north by the Tonale Pass; from the Bergamo Alps in the west by the Oglio valley (Val Camonica); from the Brenta Group in the east by the Campo Carlo Magno Pass and the river Sarca; to the south it continues towards Lake Iseo.\n\nThe main peaks of the Adamello-Presanella Group are:\nThe main mountain passes of the Adamello-Presanella Group are:\n\n"}
{"id": "2011152", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011152", "title": "Supreme Court of Poland", "text": "Supreme Court of Poland\n\nThe Supreme Court () is the highest court in the Republic of Poland. It is located in the Krasiński Square, Warsaw. \n\nThe Supreme Court supervises the adjudication in: \n\n\nThe Supreme Court is the court of last resort of appeal against judgements in the lower courts. It also passes resolutions to clarify specific legal provisions and resolve disputable questions in specific cases. These however are not (at least technically) legally binding. \n\nThe President of Poland appoints Supreme Court judges for an indefinite period. This is done upon a motion of the National Council of the Judiciary. The President also selects the First President of the court from candidates presented by the General Assembly of the Supreme Court. The First President holds office for a six-year term, though he or she may be dismissed by the Sejm upon a motion by the President if found convicted of a crime.\n\nIn July 2018 a new law came into force which lowers the mandatory retirement age from 70 to 65. The introduction of this law is contested and the constitutionality of the law is being assessed. Critics have argued the law is aimed at removing non-pliant judges and installing PiS-led government appointees.\n\nIn 2017 the Polish government passed a law which would have forced all Supreme Court judges into mandatory retirement apart from those granted an extension by the Minister of Justice. The bill was passed in the Polish Sejm and the Senate however following mass protests against the bill it was ultimately vetoed by President Andrzej Duda on 24 June 2017. A revised bill reduced mandatory retirement age of judges from 70 to 65. The bill was later signed by President Duda and came into force in July 2018. The law effectively retires 40% of the Supreme Court bench including the First President of the Supreme Court, Malgorzata Gersdorf. \n\nPolish opposition parties, the European Commission, the European Parliament, the Polish Supreme Court, and the National Council of the Judiciary have claimed the law is unconstitutional because it violates the principles of the independence of the judiciary. In August 2018 the Supreme Court sent questions to the European Court of Justice regarding the reforms. Under Union law the court can prevent the State law from coming into force if it undermines the treaties of the European Union regarding judicial independence.\n\nOn 17 December 2018, President Duda signed a law that will reinstate the judges who had been forced out of their jobs.\n\nOn 8 April 2020 the EU Court of Justice ruled in a court case (\"Commission v Poland\") that the state of Poland \"had failed to fulfil its obligations under EU law\". As a result, the Court granted \"the Commission’s application for interim measures\" which will likely be realised with monetary fines.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2011153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011153", "title": "The Baby-Sitters Club (TV series)", "text": "The Baby-Sitters Club (TV series)\n\nThe Baby-Sitters Club is an American live action TV series based on Ann M. Martin's children's novel series of the same name. The series originally aired on HBO from January to March 1990, and was produced by the Scholastic Corporation.\n\n\n\"The Baby-Sitters Club\" aired on both the Disney Channel and Nickelodeon. Reruns of the show aired on the Disney Channel from early October 1994 to January 1997.\n\nAll 13 30-minute episodes were released to home video. All of the episodes are also available on Amazon.\n\n"}
{"id": "2011159", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011159", "title": "Sparsely totient number", "text": "Sparsely totient number\n\nIn mathematics, a sparsely totient number is a certain kind of natural number. A natural number, \"n\", is sparsely totient if for all \"m\" > \"n\",\n\nwhere formula_2 is Euler's totient function. The first few sparsely totient numbers are:\n\n2, 6, 12, 18, 30, 42, 60, 66, 90, 120, 126, 150, 210, 240, 270, 330, 420, 462, 510, 630, 660, 690, 840, 870, 1050, 1260, 1320, 1470, 1680, 1890, 2310, 2730, 2940, 3150, 3570, 3990, 4620, 4830, 5460, 5610, 5670, 6090, 6930, 7140, 7350, 8190, 9240, 9660, 9870, ... .\n\nThe concept was introduced by David Masser and Peter Man-Kit Shiu in 1986. As they showed, every primorial is sparsely totient.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2011160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011160", "title": "Odin: Photon Sailer Starlight", "text": "Odin: Photon Sailer Starlight\n\n, also known as Odin: Starlight Mutiny, is a 1985 Japanese anime film produced by Yoshinobu Nishizaki's West Cape Corporation which was previously known for \"Space Battleship Yamato\" (also known as \"Star Blazers\"). It was directed by Toshio Masuda with a music score by Hiroshi Miyagawa, both of whom worked on the \"Yamato\" series.\n\n\"Odin\" centers around the novice crew of the laser sailing space schooner Starlight as they embark on a historic interstellar test flight. They are intercepted by what seems to be a wrecked spaceship only to find that it contains a lone survivor; a young woman named Sara Cyanbaker. Unknown to the crew at this time, a mechanized space fleet approaches Earth and a scout vessel from that fleet was responsible for the destruction of Sara's ship.\n\nSara begins to have strange dreams about a place called Odin and a series of artifacts discovered on a lonely asteroid point to an ancient Norwegian mariner's folk song which mentioned the Norse god Odin. The crew decipher these artifacts and deduce that Odin may actually exist as a place, the paradise planet so often spoken of in mythology. The young crew is eager to make the journey but the captain and the ship's senior officers observe the need to follow the orders of Earth Command and return to Earth immediately. The crew mutinies and locks the senior officers in the officer's lounge and warp the ship to the location given in the artifacts. Upon arrival, the Starlight meet a cosmic being who appears before them in space. He identifies himself as Asgard and declares that he will block the gateway to paradise against corrupt beings of flesh and all other non-believers. As a result, the Starlight faces an almost endless swarm of mechanized attack ships. The Starlight crew successfully fights its way through to land on what appears to be a mechanized world only to face hordes of mechanized soldiers. Surviving the onslaught, Sara and the crew is horrified to learn that these soldiers are actually part living beings. A dying soldier hands a crew member a crystal memory chip and asks him to insert it into a computer display readout. Through it, the crew learn of the soldier's memories of Odin and the entire story of the alien people's exodus.\n\nOdin was once a planet that faced destruction by the radiation of its expanding sun, Canopus. Its people built giant computerized starships to monitor their exodus to find another world yet many stayed on Odin in the hopes that the fires of Canopus would die out. The computers on the ships ultimately developed sentience and transformed its humanoid refugees into cyborgs leaving those remaining on Odin the only ones who remained as themselves. The machines built larger machines to ensure that the mission succeeds resulting in an eventual corruption of the original purpose. Now these machines sought only to destroy all organic life. The dying soldier, noted that Sara not only looked like the queen of Odin's people, but that Sara was the queen's name. Sara confirms that there might be a connection as she recounts her own memories of The Tree of Life and how she was sheltered by two giants in her childhood. The cyborg soldier's dying words suggest that if Sara has these memories then Odin and its people may still live.\n\nThe crew promises to dedicate themselves to finding Odin. However, they must still defeat the master computer of this machine world; a being that calls itself Belgel. The crew finds a way to insert a computer virus which causes Belgel to overload and destroy the world-fortress. The movie ends simply with the Starlight crew pressing on, unhindered, to begin its search for the legendary planet Odin.\n\nThe movie came out in the popularity wake of \"Space Battleship Yamato\", which had ended its run two years earlier with \"Final Yamato\". Although sharing many similar directorial elements, it failed to gain any lasting popularity. The movie was also released in the U.S. by U.S. Manga Corps in both a dubbed format and an uncut subtitled format, of which it has the distinction of perhaps suffering the harshest editing for English release length. In contrast to the original uncut version, running 2 hours 15 minutes, the English dub runs only 90 minutes.\n\nDespite attractive ship designs (most notably the Starlight) and beautiful animation, this movie is widely panned by critics and mainstream fans alike as slow and plodding. Many criticize the movie's unresolved ending, as a trilogy was originally planned but canceled after underwhelming box office. It is also seen by many as Nishizaki's transparent attempt to recycle the themes in Yamato. The inclusion of music by the Japanese metal band Loudness, is both cheered and ridiculed.\n\n"}
{"id": "2011163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011163", "title": "Kalanchoe beharensis", "text": "Kalanchoe beharensis\n\nKalanchoe beharensis (commonly known as elephant's ear kalanchoe, felt bush, or feltbush) is a plant species in the succulent genus \"Kalanchoe\", and the family Crassulaceae. \"Kalanchoe beharensis\" is native to Madagascar.\n\n\"Kalanchoe beharensis\" is an evergreen shrub, tall. The stem is about long, slender and knotted. Leaves are olive green, triangular-lanceolate shaped, decussately arranged (pairs at right-angles to each other) with leaf margins that are doubly crenate (crinkled). Each leaf is about long and wide. The bottoms of the leaves are glabrous (smooth and glossy), and covered with a woolly hair towards the apex. The leaf hairs are brown, and the tips of the teeth are darker. The hairs on the stem, younger leaves, and petioles (leaf stalks) are white. A sign of older leaves is concavity on the upper surface. Inflorescences are high, forming a branched corymb. Flowers are on short pedicels (stalks). The calyx is 7 mm long with lobes that are oblong and acuminate (tapering to a point). The corolla tube is urn-shaped and 7 mm long. Blooming occurs from spring to summer, and flowers are small and yellowish.\n\nThe types of trichome present on the leaves of \"Kalanchoe\" vary among the different species. The different types of trichomes are an indicator of adaptation to a particular environment. On the leaf blade of \"K. beharensis\" there are trichomes of the non-glandular, bushy three-branched type. This type of trichome is dead, with evidence of tannin. \"K. beharensis\" trichomes are also characterized by striped cuticular ornamentation on their surface. Glandular trichomes are also present on the leaves, with more on petioles than on leaf blades, and more on the top of the leaf as opposed to the bottom.\n\nThe genus \"Kalanchoe\" may reproduce asexually by producing plantlets on leaf margins, which when distributed on a suitable substrate will form new plants. Plantlet-forming species fall under two categories. The first category is \"induced plantlet-forming species\" that produce plantlets under stress. The second plantlet-forming species is \"constitutive plantlet-forming species\" that spontaneously forms plantlets. Induced plantlet-forming species have the LEC1 gene that allows them to produce seeds, whereas the constitutive plantlet-forming species have a defective LEC1 gene and cannot produce seeds. \"K. beharensis\" produces seeds as well as plantlets.\n\n\"Kalanchoe beharensis\" uses a system of defense, not unique to this plant, termed \"stress-limited defence\". This system involves deterring herbivores (plant eating creatures) before a high stress level ensues causing cracking in the tissue of the plant. High hardness, a structural component of this system, is characterized by tissues with high density. Since the tissues of plants employing this defense system have a high density, the defenses, commonly spines, prickles, thorns and hair, must reside on the surface of the plant. Amorphous silica is found in the defense structures with a microhardness of about 5000 MPa, which is higher than the microhardness of insects, and of mammalian enamel with a microhardness of 3500 MPa. Through research, this defense system is shown to decrease the amount of plant matter eaten by vertebrate herbivores by reducing the size of the bite a herbivore takes, the volume of a bite, or the rate at which biting occurs.\n\nThe first field study of crassulacean acid metabolism, a type of carbon fixation, has been done on \"Kalanchoe beharensis\" ‘Drake del Castillo’, in a paper by Kluge et al. entitled \"In situ studies of crassulacean acid metabolism in Kalanchoe beharensis Drake Del Castillo, a plant of the semi-arid southern region of Madagascar.\" The study includes information on diel patterns of CO exchange and transpiration. It also includes measurements of fluctuations in organic acid levels, PEP carboxylase properties and water relations. Some conclusions of this study are that \"Kalanchoe beharensis\" advantageously performs CAM fully during the entire arid seasons, avoiding CAM idling. It can do this because of its ability to maintain the correct water balance in its leaves, even in periods of drought.\n\nIt may be grown as a houseplant or outdoors in mostly frost-free landscapes and is not toxic to dogs if it has not been treated with any chemicals (according to the National Animal Poison Information network). This plant needs full to partial sun, with intermediate to warm temperatures above . It will survive frost on a scale from light to moderate. For growth in a greenhouse \"K. beharensis\" will grow in a mixture of equally distributed loam and sand, and gravel for drainage. The plant should be dry before watering again, as too much water will kill it. Watering should occur every 14–20 days during the growing season. In the winter months it should be watered sparingly. The species is resilient and will survive if neglected.\n\nPropagation is by seed, stem cuttings, or by leaf cuttings, in which the mid rib should be cut in various places. The cuttings should be grown on a sandy substrate.\n\nThis plant has gained the Royal Horticultural Society's Award of Garden Merit.\n"}
{"id": "2011169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011169", "title": "David Lago", "text": "David Lago\n\nDavid Scott Lago (born January 18, 1979 in Downey, California) is a Cuban-American actor. He is best known for playing \"Raul Guittierez\" on \"The Young and the Restless\" from 1999 to 2004. He has also had a recurring role as Jeremy on \"7th Heaven\".\n\nHe was nominated for a Daytime Emmy Award in 2000, 2001, 2003, and 2004, before finally winning in 2005, his last year on the soap. He had not prepared a speech, so he left the audience stunned by simply repeating a line from the film \"Catch Me If You Can\" about two mice falling into a bucket of cream.\n\nHe also won a Young Artist Award in 2000 for his portrayal of Raul, having previously been nominated in 1999 for his role in the short-lived television series, \"Hollywood Safari\". He has since been in a number of independent films and has also been executive producer too.\n\nIn late October 2008, it was rumored that Lago was being considered for the role of Dante Falconeri, the son of Olivia Falconeri and Sonny Corinthos, on ABC's \"General Hospital\".\n\nIn May 2009, Lago briefly returned to \"The Young and the Restless\" in the role of Raul.\n\nOn February 3, 2010 David began starring as his idol Elvis Presley in the Broadway Production of \"Million Dollar Quartet\" in Chicago's Apollo Theater. He also starred in the erotic psychological thriller \"Deeper and Deeper\" (2010), playing the role of Ryan, a bank teller who rents a room in a high rise building to spy on an attractive business woman who lives in an adjacent building. \n\nLago played the police officer in the 2019 suspense-thriller Rendezvous. In 2019, he was also cast in the guest-starring role of Justin Ramos in \"The Bay\".\n\nDavid played Elvis Presley from 2010-11 in \"Million Dollar Quartet\" at the Apollo Theater in Chicago. The 90-minute rock 'n' roll musical was performed 8 times a week to sold out crowds. He played the lead in \"Superman\" in 2016 at the Grove Theater in Upland, California.\n\n"}
{"id": "2011183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011183", "title": "Stephen Gallagher", "text": "Stephen Gallagher\n\nStephen Gallagher (born 13 October 1954) is an English screenwriter and novelist. Gallagher was born in Salford, Greater Manchester.\n\nHe has written several novels and television scripts, including for the BBC television series \"Doctor Who\" — for which he wrote two serials, \"Warriors' Gate\" (1981) and \"Terminus\" (1983)—as well as for the series \"Rosemary & Thyme\" and \"Bugs\", for two seasons of which he was script consultant along with Brian Clemens. He adapted his own novel \"Chimera\" as a miniseries of the same name shown on ITV and directed the adaptation of \"Oktober\" as well as writing the feature-length episode \"The Kingdom of Bones\" for the BBC series \"Murder Rooms\".\n\nHe also developed and wrote a science-based series for ITV, \"Eleventh Hour\", starring Patrick Stewart as a government science investigator and advisor. The programme was rumoured to be ITV's answer to the new series of \"Doctor Who\", but was more in the tradition of the hard-science thriller. Gallagher's series format was acquired for a US television remake by the \"\" trio of CBS, Jerry Bruckheimer and director Danny Cannon. The series aired on CBS and starred Rufus Sewell and Marley Shelton.\n\n\"Life Line\", broadcast in 2007, was a two-part supernatural mystery starring Ray Stevenson, Joanne Whalley and Jemima Rooper. Gallagher was later lead writer and story supervisor on NBC's 13-part series \"Crusoe\", screened in 2008/2009, and contributed two episodes to the US version of \"Eleventh Hour\" including \"Medea\", the season finale. In 2009 he served as Co-Executive Producer on Bruckheimer's crime show \"The Forgotten\", starring Christian Slater. \"The Legacy\", a two-part story for season 16 of the BBC's \"Silent Witness\", was Best Drama winner in the 2013 European Science TV and New Media Awards. He later wrote episodes of \"Stan Lee's Lucky Man\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2011203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011203", "title": "Council of Ministers (Poland)", "text": "Council of Ministers (Poland)\n\nThe Council of Ministers of the Republic of Poland (Polish: \"Rada Ministrów Rzeczypospolitej Polskiej\") is the collective executive decision-making body of the Polish government. The cabinet consists of the Prime Minister, also known as the President of the Council of Ministers, the Deputy Prime Minister, who acts as a vice-president of the council, and other ministers. The current competences and procedures of the cabinet are described between Articles 146 to 162 of the constitution.\n\nThe process of forming the council of ministers begins with the nomination of the prime minister by the President of Poland. The prime minister will then propose the composition of the cabinet, which must then be approved by the president. Despite the president's nominating role in choosing a prime minister and approving the composition of the cabinet, however, the presidency's role is strictly limited, as the president must respect the majority wishes of the Sejm. Furthermore, the president is forbidden to select a different cabinet composition than the one already selected by the prime minister. Following their nomination, all members of the cabinet take the oath of office within the Column Room of the Presidential Palace, in a ceremony officiated by the president.\n\nWithin fourteen days of its appointment, the cabinet, headed by the prime minister, is obligated to submit an agenda to the Sejm together with a vote of confidence. Should the vote of confidence fail, the process of government formation passes to the Sejm, which will then nominate a prime minister within fourteen days, who will then again propose the composition of the cabinet. An absolute majority of votes in the presence of at least half of all Sejm deputies is required to approve of the cabinet, which the president will then accept and administer their oaths of office. Should a vote of confidence fail again, the process of nomination is handed back to the presidency, who must again appoint a prime minister, who will then nominate other members of the cabinet. If the vote of confidence fails a third time, the president is obliged to shorten the Sejm's term of office and order new elections. However, since the adoption of the Constitution of 1997, all cabinets have successfully received a vote of confidence for their mandates, and have never required all of the reserve protocols of government formation to take place.\n\nThe council of ministers is headed by the prime minister, known also as the President of the Council of Ministers. The prime minister directs the cabinet's activities and acts as its representative. Furthermore, the prime minister ensures the implementation of the cabinet's policies, coordinates and controls the work of his or her ministers, and issues regulations. The prime minister may also be assisted by a deputy prime minister, who acts as a vice-president to the cabinet. Both the prime minister and deputy prime minister can discharge the functions of a minister. The constitution does not further describe the deputy prime minister's functions in the government, though the office's tasks are instead dictated by the prime minister, and it is not considered an autonomous state organ. The deputy prime minister's position is normally offered to representatives of the government's junior coalition partner. Deputy prime ministers also take on other ministerial positions.\n\nThe rest of the cabinet is composed of ministers, whose tasks and governmental administrative portfolios are selected and organized by the prime minister. Cabinet ministers may originate from the Sejm and Senat. Ministers may also be selected from outside of the legislature. Two categories of ministers exist. First are the 'department ministers,' who exercise authority and responsibility within the central government's administration, including ministries, subordinate departments and other institutions. Less important members of the cabinet are the 'ministers without portfolio,' who do not direct any of the government's administrative bodies, yet perform tasks designated to them specifically by the prime minister. Regulations by any member of the council of ministers can be overruled by the cabinet upon a motion by the prime minister. The premier is also empowered to reshuffle or remove members from the cabinet.\n\nThe style of the government and the roles of its ministers are not constitutionally mandated, depending instead on the prime minister's personality.\n\nThe constitution entrusts the cabinet to craft and implement the most important regulations and policies of the state. As such, the constitution delegates executive power to the cabinet. Although the constitution does not equate the council of ministers as 'the government,' due to the powers of the prime minister, the competences of other ministers, independent bodies, and the direct representatives of the prime minister and the cabinet (\"voivodes\") to the voivodeships who supervise the regional administrations, the cabinet carries out various governmental features. This includes the legislation and implementation of policy conducive of governing the state. Due to its constitutional mandate, the council of ministers acts as the main pillar of political authority, directing state administration, Poland's foreign policy, and much of the republic's domestic policy, unless some competences are reserved (by statute) to other organs or to local authorities.\n\nDue to the republic's parliamentary system, the council of ministers are collectively and individually responsible to the Sejm for the operations of the government. The cabinet must respond to questions from Sejm deputies during each sitting session of the chamber. The cabinet must also respond to interpellations within 21 days of their submission. Despite being responsible to the Sejm, the cabinet is not responsible to the Senat, and does not rely on the upper house's confidence to continue its term of office.\n\nDuring sessions of the Sejm, members of the council of ministers, including the prime minister and deputy prime minister, are seated in the government box within the chamber's plenary hall. The seating area faces the central lectern, located on the lectern's right side.\n\nThe Sejm can pass a vote of no confidence on an individual minister if the motion receives the support of at least 69 deputies. If the motion is successful, passed by a majority vote, the president will recall the minister from office. Similarly, if the council of ministers loses its majority support within the Sejm, the cabinet can be forced to resign in a constructive vote of no confidence. The motion must be approved by at least 46 deputies, and then passed by a majority vote. In such an event, a new prime minister must be simultaneously appointed. The prime minister is also empowered to call a vote of confidence in the cabinet, requiring a majority vote from at least half of all present deputies. In the event of the prime minister's resignation or death, the president can either accept or refuse the cabinet's resignation of office. Following a parliamentary election, the premier must submit the cabinet's resignation in the first sitting of the newly elected Sejm. After its resignation, the cabinet is entrusted to continue administering state functions until the appointment and oaths of office of the new government.\n\nLegally, the council of ministers is also held accountable to the State Tribunal for infringements upon the constitution or other legal statutes. Upon a motion by either the president or by 115 deputies, a member of the cabinet can be charged to be brought forth to the State Tribunal, and then require the approval of at least three-fifths of all Sejm deputies to begin the proceedings.\n\nThe council of ministers convenes every Tuesday at the Chancellery. The prime minister may also call special cabinet meetings during extraordinary situations.\n\nAdditionally, the president is empowered to convene a cabinet council, when the head of state presides over the council of ministers. The convening of such a cabinet council is strictly at the president's discretion, who will decide an issue or set of issues important for discussion and deliberation. The president may bring the cabinet's attention to issues of particular importance and ask for information as to the intentions or actions taken by the government. However, meetings of the cabinet council do not possess the same legislative competences as cabinet meetings.\n\nFirst Cabinet of Mateusz Morawiecki, Second Cabinet of Mateusz Morawiecki\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2011204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011204", "title": "Planté (crater)", "text": "Planté (crater)\n\nPlanté is a lunar crater that is situated near the eastern inner wall of the much larger crater Keeler. Just to the east, attached to the exterior of Keeler, is the large crater Heaviside. Planté is located on the far side of the Moon and cannot be viewed directly from the Earth.\n\nThis crater has a sharp-edged rim and an interior floor that is wider along the southeastern half, possibly due to slumped material or ejecta deposits. A small crater lies across the northern rim and part of the inner wall. There is no central peak, but a small crater is located just to the west of the midpoint. Low ridges radiate from this crater rim across the floor to the northeast.\n\nA small crater on the northern slope of the interior of Planté was a designated control point, \"CP-2\", during the Apollo 8 mission. Measurements taken from orbit on this point improved the accuracy of mapping of the lunar far side, although they were likely surpassed by subsequent Apollo missions.\n\nThe crater is named for Gaston Planté, a French physicist (1834-1889), and the name was approved by the IAU in 1979.\n\n"}
{"id": "2011208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011208", "title": "Kalanchoe orgyalis", "text": "Kalanchoe orgyalis\n\nKalanchoe orgyalis, also known as copper spoons, is a species of the succulent genus \"Kalanchoe\", in the family Crassulaceae.\n"}
{"id": "2011210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011210", "title": "Yamaha GX-1", "text": "Yamaha GX-1\n\nThe Yamaha GX-1, first released as Electone GX-707, is an analog polyphonic synthesizer organ developed by Yamaha as a test bed for later consumer synths and Electone series organs for stage and home use. The GX-1 has four synthesizer \"ranks\" or three manuals, called Solo, Upper, and Lower, plus Pedal, and an analog rhythm machine. The GX-707 first appeared in 1973 as a \"theatre model\" for use on concert stages, before the GX-1 was publicly released in 1975.\n\nThe Solo rank features a 3-octave keyboard with 37 keys that are full width but shorter than standard. Directly above the Solo keyboard runs the Portamento keyboard - a ribbon controller which can be used to play continuously variable pitches roughly corresponding to the Solo keyboard note below. The Portamento keyboard overrides the solo keyboard if used simultaneously. The Solo rank has only a single oscillator, but has a dedicated low-frequency oscillator (LFO), pitch envelope generator and ring modulator.\n\nThe Upper and Lower ranks each have a full-sized 5-octave, 61-note keyboard. They are both 8-voice polyphonic, with two oscillators per voice. Each poly rank has a dedicated LFO, and there is a common \"random\" modulation generator. The Upper rank also has horizontal aftertouch which can be assigned to pitch, volume or filter, and a polyphonic glide function.<br>\n\nThe Pedal rank has a 25-note pedalboard. It is monophonic, with three oscillators but no LFO. Performance controls include a \"swell\" pedal with footswitch, and a spring-loaded knee controller.\n\nAll four ranks use a common voice-card design (called a \"tone generator\" in Yamaha parlance) to produce their sounds. Each voice card features a voltage controlled oscillator with multiple waveforms, 2-pole high-pass and low-pass voltage controlled filters, and two envelope generators for filter modulation and VCA control. There is also a variable band-pass filtered sawtooth wave, and high-pass filtered square wave on each card. There are a total of 36 voice cards in a GX-1, containing 36 oscillators, 72 envelope generators, and 144 filters. Due to the extensive use of epoxy-potted sub-modules, a complete set of GX-1 voice cards alone weighs more than a Polymoog.\n\nPreset sounds are stored on \"tone modules\" - small cartridges which each contain 26 fixed value resistor-dividers. These produce voltages which drive the voice cards, each resistor controlling one parameter of the sound. The tone modules are installed in compartments on the top panel of the synth. An optional \"tone board\" programmer could be inserted in place of a tone module, providing a full set of knobs, switches and sliders to control the parameters of a tone manually. Tones created this way could then be \"programmed\" onto a variable tone module using the Tone Module Setting Box. The Upper, Lower and Pedal ranks all have a dual-voice structure, where a different tone is assigned to each of the two voice cards per note. A set of hidden \"wave motion\" controls allows the second tones of the Upper and Lower ranks to be de-tuned. In the Pedal rank, the second tone is doubled on two voice-cards, both of which have a separate de-tune control.\n\nThe GX-1 console weighs 300 kg. The pedalboard and stand add 87 kg, and each of its tube-powered speakers, four of which can be connected to the GX-1, weighs 141 kg (Which together equals a total of 951 kg, or 2096 lb).\n\nThe GX-1 cost $60,000 (compensated for Consumer Price Index inflation, that price equals $317,271 in 2014), and was premiered in the US in 1973 at the NAMM convention. The exact production number is unknown, but thought to total fewer than 100. At least 13 GX-1s are known to exist outside Japan, the remainder are presumed to have stayed in Japan.\n\nThe GX-1 served as a test bed for the development of the Yamaha CS-80 polyphonic synthesizer, which turned out much smaller and more portable (although still considered mighty hefty compared to contemporary synthesizers for live performance).\n\nA number of artists used the Yamaha GX-1 extensively in their recordings:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2011213", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011213", "title": "I Love Lisa", "text": "I Love Lisa\n\n\"I Love Lisa\" is the fifteenth episode of \"The Simpsons\"<nowiki>'</nowiki> fourth season. It originally aired on the Fox network in the United States on February 11, 1993. In the episode, Lisa gives Ralph Wiggum a Valentine's Day card when she sees that he has not received any. Ralph misinterprets Lisa's gesture and, much to Lisa's dismay, relentlessly pursues her with affection. Lisa snaps at Ralph and angrily tells him they are not together and that she never liked him. Heartbroken, Ralph channels his feelings into his performance as George Washington in the school's President's Day pageant. After a thunderous applause from the audience, he is able to accept Lisa as just a friend.\n\nThe episode was written by Frank Mula and directed by Wes Archer. Michael Carrington guest-starred as Sideshow Raheem. Al Jean, show runner of the episode, came up with the idea for the story when he remembered that he had received a valentine from a girl in third grade that read \"I Choo-Choo-Choose You\". The episode features cultural references to songs such as \"Monster Mash\" and \"Break on Through\", as well as a reference to the fictional character Droopy. \n\nSince airing, \"I Love Lisa\" has received mostly positive reviews from television critics; \"Entertainment Weekly\" placed the episode twelfth on their top 25 \"The Simpsons\" episodes list. It acquired a Nielsen rating of 14.9 and was the highest rated show on the Fox network the week it aired.\n\nOn Valentine's Day in Springfield, Lisa's class at the Springfield Elementary School constructs paper mailboxes for Valentine cards they are about to receive from each other. When Ralph breaks down in tears after getting no cards, Lisa gives him one out of sympathy. Ralph cheers up, develops a romantic interest in Lisa, and proceeds to walk her home from school. This leaves her feeling nervous around him and not knowing how to tell him she is not interested.\n\nThe next day at school, on Marge's suggestion, Lisa tells Ralph she is not ready to be romantic. Ralph asks his father Chief Wiggum for advice on romance and is told to be persistent in his approach to Lisa. He soon uses his position as the police chief's son to get her tickets to Krusty the Clown's upcoming \"29th Anniversary Special\", and a leading part for himself in the school's President's Day pageant (as George Washington), in which Lisa also stars as Martha Washington, which further annoys her.\n\nWith Homer having convinced Lisa that nothing can go wrong at Krusty's show, Lisa and Ralph go together. Live on air, Krusty begins interviewing audience members, and Ralph takes the opportunity to declare that Lisa is the love of his life and he intends to marry her in the future. Angry, Lisa snaps, stating she had never liked him and only gave him a Valentine card because nobody else would. Later at home, Bart, having taped the event, replays the scene to Lisa where Ralph is humiliated and deeply hurt, making her feel guilty and regretful. Wiggum comforts Ralph and attempts revenge on Lisa by smashing the taillight on Homer's car, only to have it backfire on him when Homer retaliates by standing up to him for his behavior.\n\nOn the night of the pageant, Lisa tries to apologize to Ralph, but he ignores her, burning her card in a fireplace, to focus on his role. Ralph proves to be a remarkably effective and eloquent actor, gaining the approval of the audience. Lisa approaches Ralph on the swing set after the performance, apologizes for her actions, and gives him a new card with a picture of a bee on it, reading \"Let's 'Bee' Friends\". Ralph laughs at the pun and happily accepts the offer of friendship as Wiggum heartily watches them from his car.\n\nThis was the first episode Frank Mula wrote for \"The Simpsons\". Mula had previously worked with \"Simpsons\" executive producer Sam Simon at another Gracie Films show. This was the first season four episode that Wes Archer directed. Jeff Martin and Mula wrote the music for the President's Day pageant. Michael Carrington guest-stars in the episode as Sideshow Raheem, one of Krusty's old sideshows from the 70s.\n\nThe story of \"I Love Lisa\" originated from a personal episode of Al Jean's life; when Jean was in third grade, he received a valentine from a girl that read \"I Choo-Choo-Choose You\". Years later, Jean wondered if the girl had really liked him. He told writing partner Mike Reiss about it and they thought it could be an idea for an episode where Lisa could give such a valentine to Ralph Wiggum, who would then take it too far. At that time, Ralph and Chief Wiggum were not established as being related. Jean thought it would be funny if Ralph was Wiggum's son, considering both characters are \"fat and dumb\". Despite this, Ralph's last name was already revealed to be Wiggum in the episode \"Kamp Krusty\".\n\nA technique the staff used to come up with stories and ideas was to think \"what holiday haven't we done on \"The Simpsons\", or done lately?\". As they had done several Halloween and Christmas episodes before, the staff liked the idea of doing a Valentine's Day episode.\n\nThe songs \"Monster Mash\" (by Bobby \"Boris\" Pickett) and \"Break on Through (To the Other Side)\" (by The Doors) are featured in the episode. Ned Flanders serenades his wife, Maude, to Rod Stewart's 1979 number-one hit \"Do Ya Think I'm Sexy?\".The orchestral version of Tony Bennett's \"Stranger in Paradise\" can be heard in an \"Itchy and Scratchy\" cartoon. Homer's conscience, which tells him that stealing is wrong, speaks with the voice of the fictional character Droopy. Principal Skinner's flashback is based on the movie \"Apocalypse Now\", with Laurence Fishburne and Frederic Forrest's characters visible in the background during the sequence. The Presidents' Day pageant opens with a \"tribute to our lesser known Presidents,\" including John Tyler, Zachary Taylor, Millard Fillmore, Rutherford B. Hayes, and William Henry Harrison, who mentions that he died 30 days after his inauguration. During the segment, the children on stage sing “You won’t find our faces on dollars or on cents!\" and “We are the adequate, forgettable, occasionally regrettable caretaker presidents of the U.S.A.!\" and is meant to reference the general obscurity and ineffectiveness of U.S. Presidents during the 19th century. During the re-enactment of the Abraham Lincoln assassination at the school pageant, Bart says \"Hasta la vista, Abie\" while playing John Wilkes Booth in reference to the film \"\". The scene of Chief Wiggum sitting behind Krusty at an adult movie theater and Krusty thinking he is about to be arrested is a reference to Paul Reubens' arrest for masturbating at a pornographic movie theater in Sarasota, Florida.\n\nIn its original broadcast, \"I Love Lisa\" finished eighteenth in the ratings for the week of February 6 to February 12, 1993, with a Nielsen rating of 14.9. The episode was the highest-rated show on the Fox network that week. \n\nSince airing, it has received many positive reviews from fans and television critics. \"Entertainment Weekly\"s Dalton Ross said the episode was both touching and humorous. He added that in the scene where Bart runs a videotape in slow motion to show Lisa how \"you can actually pin-point the second when [Ralph Wiggum's] heart rips in half\", the audience does not really know \"whether you're shedding tears of laughter, empathy, or both—you just know that it's damn good any way you slice it.\" \n\n\"The Arizona Republic\"s Bill Goodykoontz named the episode one of his five favorites and highlighted Ralph's line \"and my doctor said I wouldn't have so many nosebleeds if I kept my finger out of there\" as one of the best lines in the history of the show. \n\nIn a review of \"The Simpsons\" season four, Lyndsey Shinoda of \"Video Store\" cited \"Brother from the Same Planet\" and \"I Love Lisa\" among her \"personal favorites\" from the season.\n\nWarren Martyn and Adrian Wood, the authors of the book \"I Can't Believe It's a Bigger and Better Updated Unofficial Simpsons Guide\", said their favorite scenes from the episode include Principal Skinner's flashback to Valentine's Day in Vietnam, the scene in which Chief Wiggum chases a duck to get his badge back, and the one where Bart and Milhouse play John Wilkes Booth and Abraham Lincoln respectively at the school pageant. They added that those scenes were \"just the icing on the cake of the main plot.\" \n\nIn 2003, \"Entertainment Weekly\" placed the episode twelfth on their top 25 \"The Simpsons\" episodes list, and in 2008 placed the episode second on their top \"25 New Classic Holiday TV Episodes\" list. In 2019, \n\n\"Consequence of Sound\" ranked it number eight on its' list of top 30 \"Simpsons\" episodes. \n\nWhen Principal Skinner tells the children at school that Valentine's Day is not a joke (due to Bart fabricating candy hearts with mean insults), he has a flashback in which he is sitting in a PBR somewhere in Da Nang in 1969. On an oil drum next to him is a manila envelope and a photograph of Colonel Kurtz. Skinner sees Johnny, one of his army friends, holding a Valentine card and asks him, \"Sending your chick a Valentine?\", to which Johnny replies \"Yep\", right before he is shot to death. Cutting back to the present, Skinner repeatedly calls out Johnny's name in anguish, to which a perplexed Bart states \"Cool! I broke his brain.\" After the episode aired, a Vietnam veteran sent in a letter to the show that read, \"I was watching the Valentine's Day episode of your cartoon and I saw the horrifying Vietnam flashback. Do you really think this was funny, this horrible experience?\" The staff ignored the letter and, as Wes Archer pointed out, the scene was \"an obvious\" reference to \"Apocalypse Now\" even featuring characters that resembled Chef (Frederic Forrest) and Mr. Clean (Laurence Fishburne). In contrast, Mark Groening—the brother of Matt Groening and himself a Vietnam veteran—\"loved\" the sequence as well as the episode.\n\n"}
{"id": "2011215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011215", "title": "Terence Zuber", "text": "Terence Zuber\n\nTerence Zuber is an American military historian specializing in the First World War. He received his doctorate from the University of Würzburg in 2001 after serving for twenty years as an infantry officer in the United States Army. He has advanced the controversial thesis that the Schlieffen Plan as generally understood was a post-World War I fabrication.\n\nHe first described his views about the Schlieffen Plan in a 1999 article in \"War in History\", and further developed them in his 2002 book \"Inventing the Schlieffen Plan\". Some scholars, such as Hew Strachan, have largely accepted his ideas, while others including Terence M. Holmes and Holger Herwig have dismissed them.\n\nIn a review of Zuber's 2002 book for H-Net, Kelly McFall wrote: \"Zuber's argument persuasively demolishes the commonly accepted version of the Schlieffen Plan. But his claim that the Schlieffen Plan itself never existed is more speculative and rests on a reading of evidence that is plausible but not conclusive. Military historians interested in the outbreak of the First World War will need to read this book and decide for themselves. Others will want to follow the debate closely, but may prefer to wait for a consensus to emerge.\"\n\nRebuttals to his ideas include: \n\nPerhaps most importantly, in 2006, Germany’s Military History Research Office (MGFA) published \"Der Schlieffenplan: Analysen und Dokumente\", edited by Michael Epkenhans, Hans Ehlert and Gerhard P. Groß (The Schlieffen Plan: Analyzes and documents. Age of World Wars, Volume 2 ). This volume contains a copy of Schlieffen's 1905 Memorandum misfiled in the German Military Archives at Freiburg, and German deployment plans from the year 1893/94 to 1914/15, most of which had been lost otherwise. These documents, not yet available in English translation, are said to strongly support the traditional ideas of a \"Schlieffen Plan\" that Zuber disputed.,\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2011216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011216", "title": "Bergamasque Alps", "text": "Bergamasque Alps\n\nThe Bergamasque Alps or Bergamo Alps (Italian: Alpi Orobie) are a mountain range in the Italian Alps. They are located in northern Lombardy and named after the city Bergamo, south of the mountains. Within the Eastern Alps, the Alpine Club or AVE system places them within the Western Limestone Alps, while the SOIUSA system classifies them within the Southeastern Alps.\n\nThe main peaks of the Bergamasque Alps are:\nThe main mountain passes of the Bergamasque Alps are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2011225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011225", "title": "Cassandra (disambiguation)", "text": "Cassandra (disambiguation)\n\nCassandra is a prophetess in Greek mythology who was blessed with foresight but cursed, never to be believed.\n\nCassandra may also refer to:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2011227", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011227", "title": "Constitutional Tribunal (Poland)", "text": "Constitutional Tribunal (Poland)\n\nThe Constitutional Tribunal () is the constitutional court of the Republic of Poland, a judicial body established to resolve disputes on the constitutionality of the activities of state institutions; its main task is to supervise the compliance of statutory law with the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. It was established on the 26 March 1982 by the communist government of the People's Republic of Poland after the introduction of martial law, an attempt to crush political opposition. \n\nThe Constitutional Tribunal adjudicates on the compliance with the Constitution of legislation and international agreements (also their ratification), on disputes over the powers of central constitutional bodies, and on compliance with the Constitution of the aims and activities of political parties. It also rules on constitutional complaints.\n\nThe Constitutional Tribunal is made up of 15 judges chosen by the Sejm RP (the lower house of parliament) for single nine-year terms. The Constitutional Tribunal constitutes one of the formal guarantees of a state grounded on the rule of law.\n\nThree judges, appointed by the President of the Tribunal, serve as members of the National Electoral Commission (\"Act of 5 January 2011 Electoral Code\").\n\nIn 2016 Julia Przyłębska, an ally of Law and Justice, was appointed as President of the Constitutional Tribunal. Her appointment has been argued to be unconstitutional because she was appointed directly by the President of the Republic rather than being elected by judges on the Tribunal, as required by Poland's Constitution.\n\nSince the reform and takeover of the Constitutional Tribunal by politicians from the ruling party, the independence and sovereignty of this institution has been criticized and often called as a \"\"puppet\"\" court by many Polish judges associations and foreign judicial organizations and also by the counterparts of the Constitutional Tribunal in other countries.\n\nThe Constitutional Tribunal was established by the amendment of the Constitution of the People's Republic of Poland of 26 March 1982[http://prawo.sejm.gov.pl/isap.nsf/DocDetails.xsp?id=WDU19820110083 .] Due to the brevity of the introduced article 33a it was decided that a law must be brought forth that would outline the proceedings of the Constitutional Tribunal . This became an intricate process with 15 drafts developed, and the final act was ratified by the Sejm on 29 April 1985 which allowed for the formal commencement of the Tribunal's judicial proceedings on 1 January 1986 . But the courts competence and judicial capacity were limited at this time, as all rulings on the constitutionality of bills could be dismissed by a 2/3 majority vote in the Sejm . This in effect would place the rulings in an indefinite moratorium as these votes rarely occurred .\n\nOn 24 January 1986 the first motion, reference U 1/86, was brought before the Constitutional Tribunal on behalf of the Presidium of the Provincial National Council in Wrocław . The claimants sought to contend two paragraphs of the Ordinance of the Council of Ministers in regards to the sale of state property and the procedures and costs related to it as unconstitutional . In opposition with the governments stance, the court ruled in a 3 member panel on 28 May 1986 that the introduced paragraphs were unconstitutional . The Council of Ministers called for a revaluation of the case, but on 5 November 1986 the Constitutional Tribunal upheld its ruling .\n\nIn 1989 the Constitutional Tribunal's powers expanded as it secured the right to universally decide on the binding interpretation of laws . Many changes came with the enactment of the 1997 Constitution; the number of judges increased from 12 to 15, terms of office were elongated by 1 year for a total of 9 years, and the Tribunal lost its competence to decide the interpretation of legal statutes (in the form of abstract provisions) . \n\nIn June 2015, the Sejm of the VII tenure enacted a new provision on the Constitutional Tribunal in which it sought to transfer the power of election of all Constitutional Tribunal judges whose term ended in 2015 to the Sejm . Subsequently, 5 judges were elected by the Sejm on 8 October 2015 and an additional 5 on 2 December 2015 by the Sejm of the VIII tenure which resulted in what was known as the 2015 Polish Constitutional Court crisis . Between November 2015 and December 2016, 6 so-called remedial bills which were devised by the Law and Justice party were enacted and in December 2016 the President of the Constitutional Tribunal replaced 3 judges appointed by the VII tenure with 3 judges from the VIII tenure .\n\nThe three judges appointed in 2 December 2015 (Henryk Cioch, Lech Morawski, Mariusz Muszyński) are disputed. The Sejm appointed them (with two others) before the parliamentary elections of 2015; after these elections, the Sejm invalidated their appointment and elected five new judges in their place. The president denied the serment to the five appointed before the election and swore the five new judges in. Cioch and Morawski died while in office. Two new judges were appointed: Justyn Piskorski and Jarosław Wyrembak.\n\nOf the appointments made before the election, the Constitutional Tribunal itself invalidated two (Bronisław Sitek and Andrzej Sokala) and accepted three (Roman Hauser, Krzysztof Ślebzak and Andrzej Jakubecki). As a consequence, of the appointments made after the election, the Tribunal accepted two (Piotr Pszczółkowski and Julia Przyłębska) and invalidated three (Henryk Cioch, Lech Morawski and Mariusz Muszyński). See Polish Constitutional Court crisis, 2015.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2011242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011242", "title": "David Shepherd (umpire)", "text": "David Shepherd (umpire)\n\nDavid Robert Shepherd (27 December 1940 – 27 October 2009) was a first-class cricketer who played county cricket for Gloucestershire, and later became one of the cricket world's best-known umpires. He stood in 92 Test matches, the last of them in June 2005, the most for any English umpire. He also umpired 172 ODIs, including three consecutive World Cup finals in 1996, 1999 and 2003\n\nShepherd was born in Bideford in Devon. His father Herbert was a sub-postmaster, having earlier worked in the Merchant Navy. His father had played cricket and rugby in his youth, and became an umpire for North Devon Cricket Club after losing the sight in one eye in the First World War. Shepherd's brother Bill was also a cricketer who captained MCC Young Professionals, but became postmaster at his parents' post office in Instow in the 1960s, playing club and the Minor Counties cricket.\n\nHe was educated at Barnstaple Grammar School, where he played for the school first XI from the second form and became head boy. He then studied at St Luke's College, Exeter. He also played cricket for Devon Colts and England Schools, including one match against his brother captaining MCC Young Professionals at Lord's. He became a teacher in Bideford and Ilfracombe, also playing Minor Counties cricket for Devon from 1959 to 1964, mainly as a batsman.\n\nAfter scoring 100 not out for Gloucestershire's Second XI in 1964, Shepherd had a reasonably successful, though late-starting, first-class playing career for Gloucestershire, stretching from 1965 to 1979, and though he never came close to international selection he was popular both with his teammates and the Gloucestershire supporters. He started with a bang, scoring 108 on debut against Oxford University in April 1965, and made eleven more hundreds over the years, though only twice (in 1969 and 1975) did he average over 30. Mainly a middle-order batsman, and never the slimmest of men even in his younger days, he relied more on his fine shot placement than speed across the ground, and his bowling was almost non-existent: he took only two wickets in his entire first-class career. One famous incident at the Gloucestershire Cricket Club saw Shepherd hitting the ball so hard into the crowd that it knocked out a spectator reading a newspaper. The spectator was taken to hospital and recovered with only minor injuries.\n\nAfter retiring from his playing career in 1979, Shepherd decided against becoming a coach, and decided to become an umpire instead. He began his second career in cricket, and the one which was to make him world-famous, when he was appointed as a first-class umpire in 1981. Quickly recognised as being one of the fairest-minded and most able officials in the game, within two years he was part of the umpiring panel for the 1983 World Cup, and within four he was standing in his first Test: the fourth Test of the 1985 Ashes series at Old Trafford. Standing with him in this Test was Dickie Bird.\n\nFrom then on, Shepherd became a fixture on the international scene, his round figure instantly recognisable by players and spectators alike. He was a very jolly character, with red face and white hair under a white flat cap, universally liked on and off the field. Perhaps his most famous quirk was his habit of lifting one foot off the ground whenever the score reached 111, or multiples thereof, they being regarded as unlucky by Shepherd in a ritual dating back to his childhood cricket team days. The number 111 is known as the \"Nelson\", and is considered unlucky for the batsman. Among other superstitions, he would tie a matchstick to a finger on Friday 13th, so he would be touching wood to bring good luck all day. Also famous was his tendency to shake his hand while signalling fours; to this day, many fans in cricket crowds mimic his action while celebrating fours.\n\nIf the situation demanded, Shepherd could be very firm, notably when initially warning the Pakistan captain, Waqar Younis, in the 2003 World Cup against Australia for bowling fast 'beamers' (a full toss that reaches the batsman between waist and head height, being dangerous as it is extremely hard to detect for the batsman). Waqar again transgressed and Shepherd ordered his removal from the attack becoming the first umpire to take such an action during an international match.\n\nHe considered retiring after he received much adverse press coverage in 2001, when Pakistan won the Old Trafford Test against England, after Shepherd gave three England batsmen out to no-balls bowled by Saqlain Mushtaq, who had stepped over the crease, but he was part of the ICC's first Elite Panel of neutral umpires established in 2002, and retained his place unbroken until his retirement from umpiring in 2005.\n\nAs his retirement loomed, Shepherd was lauded wherever he went. He was given a guard of honour by the New Zealand and Australian teams during the series between the two countries in March 2005. After his last Test, that between West Indies and Pakistan at Kingston, Jamaica in June 2005, Shepherd was presented with a bat by West Indian captain Brian Lara. He was in fact given special dispensation by the ICC to umpire in an Ashes match between England and Australia at Lord's as his final Test, but turned down the opportunity to maintain the ICC's neutral umpiring policy for Test matches.\n\nHis fellow umpire Simon Taufel said of him, as quoted in his \"Wisden\" obituary: \"What doesn't get highlighted is man-management skills, creating a happy environment for players to play in. And Shep was magnificent at that. The players had this enormous respect for him as a person. He put them at their ease and forged relationships that crossed all cultural and political divides.\" In that obituary, the obituarist himself wrote: \"The authorities struggle for a definition of the Spirit of Cricket. Perhaps the best answer is David Shepherd.\"\n\nShepherd was awarded the MBE for services to cricket in 1987, and he became the President of his home county club Devon in 2006.\n\nShepherd was the first umpire to officiate in at least one Test match in all the nations playing Test cricket at that time.\n\nShepherd retired to Devon, and returned to live in the seaside village of Instow, occasionally working in his brother's post office. He was married to Jenny, his partner since 1973, in 2008. He died of lung cancer on 27 October 2009 in Devon.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2011251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011251", "title": "Sloan–Parker House", "text": "Sloan–Parker House\n\nThe Sloan–Parker House, also known as the stone house, Parker family residence, or Richard Sloan house, is a late-18th-century stone residence near Junction, Hampshire County, in the U.S. state of West Virginia. It was built on land vacated by the Shawnee after the Native American nation had been violently forced to move west to Kansas following their defeat at the Battle of Point Pleasant in 1774. The building was added to the National Register of Historic Places on June 5, 1975, becoming Hampshire County's first property to be listed on the register. The Sloan–Parker House has been in the Parker family since 1854. The house and its adjacent farm are located along the Northwestern Turnpike (US 50/WV 28) in the rural Mill Creek valley.\n\nThe original fieldstone section of the house was erected in about 1790 for Richard Sloan and his wife Charlotte VanHorn Sloan. Originally from Ireland, Sloan arrived in the United States after the American Revolutionary War and became an indentured servant of David VanHorn. Sloan eloped with VanHorn's daughter Charlotte and they settled in the Mill Creek valley, where they built the original stone portion of the house. The Sloans had ten children, including John and Thomas Sloan, who each (later) represented Hampshire County in the Virginia House of Delegates. Richard Sloan and his family operated a successful weaving business from the stone house and their Sloan counterpanes (woven coverlets with block designs) became well known in the South Branch Valley region.\n\nThe Sloan family sold the stone house and to three brothers in the Parker family in 1854. The Parker family operated a stagecoach line on the Moorefield and North Branch Turnpike; the journey included a stop at the stone house, where the family served meals to travelers. During the American Civil War, the stone house was visited by both Union and Confederate forces, and was ransacked by Union troops for goods and supplies. The stone house served as a local polling station, and its use as a stagecoach stop ended after the completion of the Hampshire Southern Railroad in 1910. The Parker family opened the house for tours, and it was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1975.\n\nThe Sloan–Parker House consists of the original stone section, which faces toward the Northwestern Turnpike, and a wooden frame addition (built c.1900) adjacent to the original stone section. The stone section's exterior wall is about thick at the basement level and tapers to a thickness of about at the attic level. Most of the stone section's flooring, and the hardware on the doors, are original. Other features of the Sloan–Parker House property include a large barn (built in 1803) and, to the northeast of the house, the Sloan–Ludwick Cemetery.\n\nThe Sloan–Parker House and farm are situated within a rural, agricultural section of the Mill Creek valley in southwestern Hampshire County. Patterson Creek Mountain, a forested anticlinal mountain ridge, rises to the west of the Mill Creek valley, and the forested western rolling foothills of the anticlinal Mill Creek Mountain rise to the valley's east. The South Branch Potomac River is located across Mill Creek Mountain, approximately to the east of the house.\n\nThe house and its adjacent farm are located along the Northwestern Turnpike (concurrently US 50 and WV 28) about east of the unincorporated community of Junction (also known as Moorefield Junction). Junction is centered around and named for the intersection of Purgitsville Pike (concurrently US 220 and WV28) with the Northwestern Turnpike (concurrently US50 and US220 westward to Knobly Mountain and concurrently US50 and WV28 eastward to Romney).\n\nThe Sloan–Parker House is located atop a hillside just south of the Northwestern Turnpike. Mill Creek flows west to east approximately to the north of the house. An unnamed ephemeral stream that runs just west of the house joins Mill Creek to the north. Mill Creek continues east through the Mechanicsburg Gap in Mill Creek Mountain at Mechanicsburg and joins the South Branch Potomac River.\n\nThe Mill Creek valley and the land on which the Sloan–Parker House is located were originally part of the Northern Neck Proprietary, a grant of land that the exiled Charles II awarded to seven of his supporters in 1649 during the English Interregnum. With the Restoration in 1660, CharlesII finally ascended to the English throne. He renewed the Northern Neck Proprietary grant in 1662, revised it in 1669, and again renewed the original grant favoring original grantees Thomas Colepeper, 2nd Baron Colepeper, and Henry Bennet, 1st Earl of Arlington, in 1672. In 1681 Bennet sold his share to Lord Colepeper, who received a new charter for the entire land grant from James II in 1688. Following the deaths of Lord Colepeper, his wife Margaret, and his daughter Katherine, the Northern Neck Proprietary passed to Katherine's son Thomas Fairfax, 6th Lord Fairfax of Cameron, in 1719.\n\nAs conflicts with Native Americans began to ease, Lord Fairfax sought to entice European settlers to inhabit the sparsely populated western lands of his Northern Neck Proprietary. The Mill Creek valley was one of the first areas of present-day Hampshire County to be settled by Europeans, beginning in the mid-18th century. Early settlers were drawn by the valley's fertility. Job Parker, a direct ancestor of the Parker family that later acquired the Sloan–Parker House, settled in the Mill Creek valley during this period.\n\nThe original fieldstone section of the Sloan–Parker House was erected around 1790 for Richard Sloan and his wife Charlotte VanHorn Sloan. Richard Sloan was originally from County Monaghan, Ulster, Ireland. Following the American Revolutionary War, Sloan sailed on a passenger ship from Great Britain to the United States. Despite paying his passage fare prior to his voyage, he was charged again upon his arrival. Unable to make this second payment, he became an indentured servant of David VanHorn. After several months with the VanHorn family, Sloan eloped with David VanHorn's daughter Charlotte, and the couple went to Baltimore, where they stayed briefly. After observing healthy cattle from Old Fields in Hardy County, they decided to relocate there. On their journey to Old Fields, Sloan and his wife arrived in Romney and chose to settle in Hampshire County instead. They later moved southwest of Romney to their property in the Mill Creek valley, where the Sloan–Parker House stands today.\n\nTo construct the two-story stone house, Sloan and his wife hired laborers to quarry the native fieldstone and lay the stonework. Richard and Charlotte Sloan had ten children together (four girls and six boys), and the large house afforded the couple sufficient room to raise them. The house also provided the family with the necessary space to engage in the manufacture of woven goods. Sloan was a fabric weaver by trade, and he and his family developed a thriving weaving industry on their lands in the Mill Creek valley. Their entire production process was initially accomplished inside the house until Sloan erected a separate loom house. There, he and his sons built and operated six looms. On their farm, Sloan and his family raised their own sheep and grew flax; they also sourced flax and raw wool from local residents. The majority of the Sloan family's woven products were sold locally, and their Sloan counterpanes became well known in the South Branch Valley region. The family's trade in woolen goods and linens thrived until the middle of the 19thcentury. The present Parker family occupants of the Sloan–Parker House retain several woven coverlets produced by the Sloans.\n\nAccording to Sloan family tradition, Richard and Charlotte Sloan used a method of casting lots to decide which of their ten children should marry. Their youngest son James won a contest in drawing straws, and was the only one of their ten children to marry when he wed Magdaline Arnold on January 6, 1834. James and Magdaline operated the Sloan household while the other members attended to their family's weaving business.\n\nTwo of Richard and Charlotte Sloan's sons, John and Thomas, were active in the military and in local and state politics. John Sloan served in the War of 1812 and was later appointed Major General of the 3rdDivision, Virginia Militia, by the Virginia General Assembly in 1842. He also served as a county justice from 1824 until 1828, a county surveyor in 1827, a county sheriff in 1839, and a member of the Virginia House of Delegates representing Hampshire County from 1825 to 1827. Thomas Sloan represented Hampshire County in the Virginia House of Delegates from 1832 to 1834 and again from 1835 to 1837. He also served as a delegate to the Virginia Constitutional Convention of 1850, representing a district comprising Frederick, Hampshire, and Morgan counties.\n\nThe Sloan family sold the stone house and of surrounding land to brothers John Peyton Parker, Benjamin Parker, and William Parker on December 29, 1854, for $4,000. Following its acquisition by the Parker brothers, the stone house continued as the center of a large farm.\n\nBecause of its convenient location along the Northwestern Turnpike, the house served as a regional stagecoach stop and local polling place. From the early 19thcentury until the completion of the Hampshire Southern Railroad to Petersburg in 1910, this stretch of the Northwestern Turnpike between Romney and Junction was part of a major north–south transportation route connecting Cumberland and Romney with Moorefield and Petersburg to the south. By 1845 the Moorefield and North Branch Turnpike stage line connected the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad (B&O) Main Line at Green Spring with the north–south route in Springfield, allowing stagecoach transportation between Green Spring and Moorefield. The route of present-day WV28 aligns with this north–south route from the Maryland state line at Wiley Ford to Petersburg, and is concurrent with the Northwestern Turnpike (US50) from Romney to Junction and US220 from Junction to Petersburg.\n\nThe Parker family operated their own stagecoach line along the Moorefield and North Branch Turnpike between the B&O Main Line at Green Spring and Moorefield until 1884, when the B&O South Branch Line was completed to Romney Depot. The Parkers' stagecoach line transported passengers down present-day Green Spring Road (CR1), Cumberland Road (WV28), and the Northwestern Turnpike (US50/WV28) to the stone house, where the stagecoaches would stop to allow passengers to have meals before continuing the journey to Moorefield via present-day US220/WV28. When a stagecoach arrived at the stone house, a loud horn would sound to announce its arrival, and then meals were provided to the travelers in the basement kitchen and dining areas (or \"keeping rooms\"). Travelers' horses and other stock were watered and fed outside the basement door. As well as their stagecoach line, the Parker family operated a toll house on the Northwestern Turnpike on the west side of its crossing of the South Branch Potomac River, approximately northeast of the house.\n\nDuring the American Civil War, the stone house was visited by both Union and Confederate forces due to its location along the Northwestern Turnpike. The small room under the stone house's front porch was also used as a picket station to guard the turnpike. Union Army troops ransacked and frequently visited the house to retrieve goods and supplies from the house and farm as they traveled along the Northwestern Turnpike. Despite its convenient location and the Parker family's Confederate sympathies, the house and its farm did not suffer major damage during the war. The Federal government later reimbursed the Parker family for the items appropriated by the Union forces during the war. The Parkers were provided with bills annotating the \"purchase\" of $162.45 in goods and parts during the years 1862, 1863, and 1864. These bills exist today and are in the possession of the Parker family. Extant records also indicate that the Parker family sold farm goods to Confederate forces as well.\n\nOne of the Parker brothers, Benjamin Parker, married Isabel \"Belle\" Parker and they had two sons together: Renick Seymour Parker, who died at the age of 27 years, and John Henry Parker, Sr., who married Eleanor DuBois Johnson. She had the wooden frame section added to the house around 1900, at which time the Sloan–Parker House took its current form. After Eleanor Parker died, her husband John Henry, Sr., married Kate Parker.\n\nThe Sloan–Parker House occasionally served as a polling place for the Junction community after 1900, and it ceased being used as a stagecoach stop following the completion of the Hampshire Southern Railroad in 1910. The house and farm were formerly serviced by post offices operated in nearby Junction from 1866 to 1868, 1874 to 1876 (as Moorefield Junction), and 1877 until 1997 when service was suspended. Junction's post office was finally shuttered in 2005; afterward, the house was assigned a Romney address.\n\nBy 1962 John Henry Parker, Jr., the son of John Henry, Sr. and Kate Parker, was residing at the Sloan–Parker House with his wife Ruth Harmison Parker and their son David Renick Parker. While under their ownership and through their efforts, the Sloan–Parker House and an adjacent were added to the National Register of Historic Places on June 5, 1975. It became Hampshire County's first property to be listed on the register.\n\nRuth Harmison Parker was a local historian and member of the Hampshire County Historical Society. She and her husband opened the Sloan–Parker House for tours in 1962, and again in July 1976, when they displayed furniture, glassware, coverlets, and Civil War relics handed down from the Sloan and Parker families. John Henry Parker, Jr., died in 2000, and his wife Ruth died in 2005. David Parker is a seventh generation male-line descendant of early Mill Creek settler Jeb Parker. He and his wife Jill have three daughters and one son.\n\nThe Sloan–Parker House, as of 2018, consists of the original stone section (built ), which faces toward the Northwestern Turnpike, and a wooden frame addition (built c.1900) positioned adjacent to the original stone section. Together, the stone section and the frame addition form a T-shaped structure. The original stone section of the house, built of fieldstone, has remained mostly unchanged since its initial construction; slight alterations were made to accommodate the frame addition. Similarly, the frame addition has undergone only minor modifications since its construction.\n\nThe stone section was built using locally available materials, and its size was probably considered large for its time. It is rectangular in its plan and measures approximately in width and in depth. The stone section is symmetrical in its overall interior and exterior design with minor exceptions in its basement. It consists of two stories, one basement level, and an attic. The stone section is topped with a steep metal gabled roof with standing seam profiles. The stone section's exterior wall is about thick at the basement level and tapers to a thickness of about at the attic level.\n\nThe north elevation (main façade) has three bays on its first and second stories and one window in the western room of its basement level. Three six-over-nine double-hung wooden sash windows are on the second story, two nine-over-one double-hung wooden sash windows are on the first story, and one small window with two sliding panels of four panes each is on the basement level. At the center of the north elevation, a tall stone platform reaches from the ground to the first story and supports a large covered porch framed with wooden handrails and balustrades on its north and west sides. The porch's roof is supported by five square wooden columns: three along the north edge and two engaged columns against the house's stone exterior. The porch is topped with a metal roof with standing seam profiles. The front door, located between the first story's two large windows, features vertical boards on its exterior side and horizontal boards on its interior side. The front door is topped by a four-pane transom window.\n\nThe east and west elevations of the stone section of the house are similar in design, but the west elevation has a door and large porch at the basement level. It also has a small one-over-one double-hung wooden sash window on the first story that was added after the wooden frame section was constructed. The stone section's east elevation features a small porch and a door, which were built onto the north end of the first floor around 1915. The porch is topped with a metal roof with standing seam profiles, and is supported by three wooden Tuscan columns and two square wooden engaged columns against the house. Both the east and west elevations of the stone section have an interior fieldstone chimney. At the top of each chimney, the original fieldstone has been replaced with brick. Each chimney is centered between two small two-over-four double-hung wooden sash windows at the attic level.\n\nThe south elevation (rear façade) of the stone section remains intact, and serves as the northern wall of the wooden frame section. A window in the stone section's second story was removed to connect the second story of the wooden frame addition. Likewise, what used to be the stone section's rear door now connects the first floor of the stone section with the wooden frame section. This door is also topped by a four-pane transom window.\n\nThe interior of the stone section contains two floors, each with two rooms, in addition to a basement and attic. The former kitchen and dining room (or \"keeping rooms\") are on the west side of the basement level, and feature a large fireplace. The east side of the basement serves as a large storage area. The two rooms on the first floor formerly served as bedrooms, but they are now used as formal living and sitting rooms. The first floor originally had one fireplace on the east side, but the design was changed around 1915 to allow for a fireplace on the west side as well. The second story consists of two bedrooms, each with a fireplace. The attic is completely open from west to east. The rafters are exposed, and secured together with wooden pins. They still contain markings of letters and numbers that enabled the proper placement of components as they were lifted from the ground during construction. The majority of the stone section's flooring, and the hardware on the doors, are original.\n\nThe wooden frame section of the Sloan–Parker House features various sizes and types of doors and windows. A deep porch adjoins the east and south elevations of the frame section, and reaches to a canted three-bay window on the frame section's west side. The entire frame section is covered with wooden shingles and is topped with a steep metal roof with standing seam profiles. The interior of the frame section consists of a dining room, kitchen, bathroom, and several bedrooms.\n\nAncillary structures on the Sloan–Parker House farm consist of an old log smokehouse, and a large barn erected in 1803. Widely spaced unhewn logs are located on the barn's interior and its south elevation. The remainder of the barn is enclosed with wooden framing. There are also several other barns and storage buildings on the property.\n\nThe Sloan–Ludwick Cemetery is approximately northeast of the Sloan–Parker House in a grove of trees along the edge of an agricultural field. Richard Sloan and his wife Charlotte VanHorn Sloan are interred in this cemetery. Other burials in the cemetery include Richard Sloan's son Major General John Sloan and American Revolutionary War soldier Leonard Ludwick and his wife Katherine. Benjamin Parker and some of his descendants were buried in this cemetery before they were reinterred at Indian Mound Cemetery in Romney.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2011265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011265", "title": "Susanna Thompson", "text": "Susanna Thompson\n\nSusanna Thompson (born January 27, 1958) is an American actress. She is known for her roles in films \"Little Giants\" (1994), \"Ghosts of Mississippi\" (1996), \"Random Hearts\" (1999) and \"Dragonfly\" (2002). On television, Thompson played Dr. Lenara Kahn in the groundbreaking episode \"Rejoined\" in \"\" (1995), the iconic Borg Queen in three episodes of \"\" (1999–2000), Karen Sammler on the drama series \"Once and Again\" (1999–2002) and Moira Queen on the series \"Arrow\" (2012–2014).\n\nThompson has appeared on stage, winning a Dramatic Award for her role as Luisa in \"A Shayna Maidel\". She was also nominated for Best Actress by the San Diego Critics Circle for her role in \"Agnes of God\".\n\nThompson may be best known for her television work, which includes playing Karen Sammler on \"Once and Again\", Michelle Generoo in an episode of \"The X-Files\" and a recurring role as the Borg Queen in the \"\" two-part episodes \"Dark Frontier\" (1999) and \"Unimatrix Zero\" (2000). Thompson also portrayed Denise Hydecker in the 1998 television film \"The Lake\".\n\nOne of Thompson's most controversial television appearances was on an episode of \"\" titled \"Rejoined\". In the episode, she participated in one of US television's earlier same-sex kisses. The episode first aired on October 30, 1995.\n\nShe made a guest appearance on \"\" on October 7, 2003 in the season five episode \"Mother\", playing Dr. Greta Heints, a psychiatrist who rehabilitates sex offenders in order to prepare them for a return to society.\n\nBeginning in January 2006, she had a starring role in the short-lived NBC drama \"The Book of Daniel\". In November 2006, she made her first appearance as Army Lieutenant Colonel Hollis Mann on the CBS series \"NCIS\", in the recurring role of Agent Gibbs' love interest. That same week, she appeared on \"Without a Trace\".\n\nIn 2009, Thompson starred on the short-lived NBC series \"Kings\", based on the biblical story of David, as Queen Rose Benjamin, an analogue of Ahinoam, the wife of Saul.\n\nIn 2012, Thompson started a two season run as Moira Queen in the main cast of the CW series \"Arrow\", returning as a guest in later episodes. Thompson appeared in the recurring role of Carolyn Preston in the NBC series \"Timeless\" (2016–2018).\n\nThompson earned her bachelor's degree in drama from San Diego State University. Her husband, Martin Katz, is a professor at San Diego State University.\n"}
{"id": "2011268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011268", "title": "Dorothy Molter", "text": "Dorothy Molter\n\nDorothy Louise Molter (May 6, 1907 in Arnold, PennsylvaniaDecember 1986), lived for 56 years on Knife Lake in the Boundary Waters area of northern Minnesota. She was known as \"Knife Lake Dorothy\" or as the \"Root Beer Lady\", as she made root beer and sold it to thousands of passing canoeists in the Boundary Waters Canoe Area Wilderness (BWCAW), near Ely, Minnesota. Various factors combined to give her national prominence, extensive coverage in media, books and documentaries, and tens of thousands of visits by Boundary Waters Canoe Area canoeists.\n\nShe first visited her future home (\"The Isle of Pines Resort\") on Knife Lake in 1930. It became her home starting in 1934. Molter's life, and her place in the public eye was significantly influenced by the evolution of the area where she lived into the Boundary Waters Canoe Area Wilderness. Changes related to this transition affecting her life occurred from 1948 through 1984.\n\nMolter lived with her parents Mattie and John \"Cap\" Molter in Pennsylvania until her mother died when she was in second grade. She lived with her five brothers and sisters in a Cincinnati orphanage until 1919 when her father remarried and was able to provide a home for them in Garrett, Indiana. Later, they moved to Chicago. She graduated from Calumet High School. In 1927, she enrolled for nurse's training at Auburn Park Hospital.\n\nIn 1929 Molter's father Cap began fishing on Basswood lake. While fishing there he learned of \"The Isle of Pines Resort\", a fishing resort on three islands further east on Knife Lake, and booked his first trip there (with his wife, brother and two friends) for the summer of 1930. Dorothy had just finished a semester of school, and when one of her father's friends had a change of plans, she was able to go in his place. During this visit she also helped out at the resort. She visited in each subsequent year and helped out more and more as time progressed. It became her home starting in 1934. The Isle of Pines resort consisted of rustic cabins located on the Isle of Pines island and an adjacent island on Knife Lake in Northern Minnesota, yards from the Canada–US border. It was owned and operated by Bill Berglund. Molter became the owner of the lodge in 1948 when Berglund died. She was a trained nurse and would often treat people for minor injuries. Molter would only leave occasionally to visit family in Chicago or to take additional education in Chicago to maintain her nursing license. After Berglund's death she lived there alone until her death in 1986.\n\nMolter's life, and her place in the public eye, was significantly influenced by the evolution of the area into the Boundary Waters Canoe Area Wilderness. Up until the mid/late 1940s, the story of the Isle of Pines resort was typical of many north woods resorts. It was reachable by seaplanes and by motorboats, the latter when the boat was small enough and the gumption of the traveler high enough to carry the boat and motor over land at the portages. Later it was reached by snowmobiles as they came into use. Her location evolved into the BWCA. Ensuing changes between 1948 and 1984 had significant effects on her life. The BWCAW became the largest US wilderness east of the Mississippi (almost , 2 million acres if one includes the adjacent Quetico Provincial Park in Canada) and the most popular canoe area in the United States, with over 250,000 visits by canoeists per year. This change eliminated nearly all motorized transportation in this area, and removed other residences, buildings, business and (the few) roads from the wilderness, eventually leaving her as the only full-time resident in a canoe wilderness area three times the size of Rhode Island. At the same time that these transportation changes \"moved\" her even farther from civilization, they brought tens of thousands of canoeist visitors to her home. These factors contributed to the interest in and endearment of her, including print media and television coverage during the last 34 years of her life.\n\nA few of the noteworthy changes to the BWCAW include:\n\n\nDuring the 1970s and 1980s, although her home no longer operated as a resort, visitation to Molter's islands reached upwards of 5,000-6,000 canoeists each year. Molter spent winters in cabins on the Isle of Pines and summers in a cabin-like multi-layered (canvas) tent on a smaller, satellite island a few dozen yards east of Isle of Pines. She had small, rustic footbridges between the islands, and a fence made of broken canoe paddles donated by visitors. She lived within yards of the US–Canada border.\n\nShe grew flowers in an area which is practically all rock and without soil. This required finding and hauling dirt and placing it into decommissioned fishing boats repurposed into planters and gathering wild seeds. Visitors were a \"feast or famine\" situation for Molter. During the warm months she would receive thousands of visits. Many signed her guest book which, would accumulate over 4,000 signatures in a summer. She began averaging between 6,000 and 7,000 guests per year, often over 100 in a day during the peak summer months of July and August. Winters saw far fewer visitors.\n\nShe had no electricity, telephone or utilities. She used portable tanks of bottled propane for cooking and a battery-powered 2-way radio. Her cabin was heated by wood, and the home-made root beer that she sold was cooled by thousands of pounds of ice which were hand cut from the lake in the winter and stored in her old-fashioned (non refrigerated) ice house. Each year the ice lasted at least through August. Although she was technically prohibited from selling root beer after the 1964 Wilderness Act, visitors continued to enjoy her root beer and made \"donations\".\n\nWith the passage of legislation extending the wilderness protections of the BWCAW, she was told she would have to leave. Due to an outpouring of support (including efforts by Senator and future Vice President Walter Mondale), a special exception was made allowing her to stay until 1975. In 1975 Molter and Ambrose were appointed as Forest Service \"volunteers in service\" and she was allowed to stay. This marked a period during which the Forest Service began assisting Molter. Benny Ambrose died in 1982, leaving Molter as the last full-time resident of the Boundary Waters wilderness. She lived there until she died in 1986.\n\nOne early article on her was the October 1952 Saturday Evening Post Article, \"The Loneliest Woman in America\" by Andrew Hamilton. While the title was not literally true, the term caught on. As Molter once observed, \"If I had been the loneliest woman in America, by the time all of those writers and TV people came up here, I sure as heck wouldn't have been\" Through a combination of her remote location and BWCAW wilderness restrictions against motors and motorized travel, Molter's home was amongst the most isolated in the country. The nearest road required 15 miles of travel by water and five portages over land to reach. It typically took approximately 1½ days of travel from her home to reach the nearest road, and her home was approximately from the nearest (small) town.\n\nShe died December 18, 1986 at age 79. She was survived by her brother, John A. Molter and sister Hazel Hoffman, both of Chicago, her niece, Sally Margis of Midlothian, IL and many other relatives. It was said that the people of Ely, the closest town, were very saddened by her death, but happy that she died in the way that she wanted to.\n\nFrom 1952 until her death in 1986, Molter was the subject of ongoing media and documentary coverage. Her life was the subject of a book entitled \"The Root Beer Lady\" by Bob Cary of Ely, which is a collection of short stories based on the author's friendship with Dorothy, and in 2011, a biography entitled \"Dorothy Molter: The Root Beer Lady of Knife Lake\" by Sarah Guy-Levar (executive director of the Dorothy Molter Museum 2007-2017) and Terry Schocke (former staff at the Dorothy Molter Museum) was published. She was also the subject of National Geographic publications, a broadcast of the \"Real People\" television series, and of a documentary video \"Dorothy Molter - Living in the Boundary Waters.\" Charles Kuralt visited her and featured her on his television program, and also wrote about her in his book \"Charles Kuralt's America\".\n\nAfter Molter's death, her cabins were dismantled and moved to Ely. The effort involved transporting the disassembled cabins by dog sled to a point at the Boy Scout canoe base on Moose lake. Time was of the essence as the Forest Service was directed to burn her cabins down by a certain date. An unseasonably warm March stymied those efforts to move her cabins by dogsled and special permission was obtained to use motorized transportation such as snowmobiles. Her residence was re-erected on the east side of Ely, Minnesota on a site near the Chamber of Commerce building. \n\nThe Dorothy Molter Museum was formed to preserve her legacy. The cabin was moved from the chamber of commerce site to the museum, and a second cabin of hers was also erected and restored at the museum. The museum is located on the south side of Route 169 (Sheridan ) at the east end of Ely, Minnesota.\n"}
{"id": "2011274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011274", "title": "Selçuk", "text": "Selçuk\n\nSelçuk is the central town of Selçuk district, İzmir Province in Turkey, northeast of the ancient city of Ephesus.\n\nIts original Greek name, Agios Theologos (Άγιος Θεολόγος), referred to John the Theologian, because emperor Justinian had erected there a basilica in honour of the saint. \"Ayasoluk\" is a corrupted form of the original name. \nIn the 14th century, it was the capital of the Beylik of Aydin, and visited by Ibn Battuta. He noted, \"The congregational mosque in this city is one of the most magnificent mosques in the world and unequaled in beauty.\" Under the Ottoman Empire, it was known as Ayasoluk. In 1914, it was renamed Selçuk after the Seljuk Turks who first led incursions into the region in the 12th century.\n\nSelçuk is one of the most visited tourist destinations within Turkey, known for its closeness to the ancient city of Ephesus, House of the Virgin Mary and Seljuk works of art. The 6th century Basilica of St. John the Apostle, which, some claim, is built on the site of the Apostle's tomb, is also inside the town. Procopius said that the basilica was a most sacred and honoured place in Ephesus. It was severely damaged in the invasion of Selzuk Turks in 1090. The place was excavated in 1927, and Pope Paul VI paid it a visit and prayed there.\n\nIn 1921, after the capture of the village by the Greek forces, the village had a total population of 600, ethnographically consisting of 580 Greeks, 10 Turks and 10 Armenians.\n\nThe old quarter of Selçuk retains much traditional Turkish culture. Ayasuluk Hill dominates the surrounding area, with several historical buildings on its slopes, including the İsa Bey Mosque built by the Aydinids in 1375, and the Grand Fortress. The hill itself is part of Ephesus UNESCO World Heritage Site.\n\nEphesus Beach (Turkish: \"Pamucak\") is one of the longest beaches (12 km) in Turkey and hosts five large hotels. \n\nThe youth football teams of the İzmir-based sports club Altınordu S.K. play their home matches in the Altınordu Selçuk-Efes Football Complex, which is located WSW of Selçuk. With five football fields, the venue is the largest in İzmir Province.\n\n\nSelçuk is twinned with:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2011275", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011275", "title": "Section 179 depreciation deduction", "text": "Section 179 depreciation deduction\n\nSection 179 of the United States Internal Revenue Code (), allows a taxpayer to elect to deduct the cost of certain types of property on their income taxes as an expense, rather than requiring the cost of the property to be capitalized and depreciated. This property is generally limited to tangible, depreciable, personal property which is acquired by purchase for use in the active conduct of a trade or business. Buildings were not eligible for section 179 deductions prior to the passage of the Small Business Jobs Act of 2010; however, qualified real property may be deducted now. \n\nDepreciable property that is not eligible for a section 179 deduction is still deductible over a number of years through MACRS depreciation according to sections 167 and 168. The 179 election is optional, and the eligible property may be depreciated according to sections 167 and 168 if preferable for tax reasons. Further, the 179 election may be made only for the year the equipment is placed in use and is waived if not taken for that year. However, if the election is made, it is irrevocable unless special permission is given.\n\nFor regular depreciation deductions in the United States, see MACRS.\n\nThe section 179 election is subject to three important limitations.\n\nFirst, there is a dollar limitation. Under section 179(b)(1), the maximum deduction a taxpayer may elect to take in a year is $1,000,000, as of January 1, 2018.\n\nSecond, if a taxpayer places more than $2,000,000 worth of section 179 property into service during a single taxable year, the § 179 deduction is reduced, dollar for dollar, by the amount exceeding the $2,500,000 threshold, again as of January 1, 2018. \n\nFinally, section 179(b)(3) provides that a taxpayer's § 179 deduction for any taxable year may not exceed the taxpayer's aggregate income from the active conduct of trade or business by the taxpayer for that year. If, for example, the taxpayer's net trade or business income from active conduct of trade or business was $72,500 in 2006, then the taxpayer's § 179 deduction cannot exceed $72,500 for 2006. However, the § 179 deduction not allowed for any year because of this limitation can be carried over to the next year.\n\nUp to $25,500 of the cost of vehicles rated at more than 6,000 pounds gross vehicle weight and not more than 14,000 pounds gross vehicle weight (like RV) can be deducted using a section 179 deduction. The limitation on sport utility vehicles does not impact larger commercial vehicles, commuter vans, or buses.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2011279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011279", "title": "State Tribunal (Poland)", "text": "State Tribunal (Poland)\n\nThe State Tribunal () of the Republic of Poland is the judicial body, which rules on the constitutional liability of people holding the highest offices of state. It examines cases concerning the infringement of the Constitution and laws or crimes committed by the President, members of the government, the President of the Supreme Chamber of Control, the President of the National Bank of Poland, heads of central administrative offices and other senior state officials.\n\nIn Poland, referral to the State Tribunal is used instead of the process of impeachment, which is traditionally used in some other nations as a way of addressing similar allegations against persons holding analogous offices.\nThe State Tribunal is empowered to rule for the removal of individuals from public office, to impose injunctions on individuals against their appointment to senior offices, to revoke an individual's right to vote and to stand for election, to withdraw previously awarded medals, distinctions and titles of honour, and in criminal cases to impose penalties stipulated in the criminal code.\n\nThe composition of the State Tribunal is established at the first sitting of each new Sejm and is binding for its term (with the exception that the head of the office is Chief Justice, appointed by President for a six-year term). His two deputies and 16 members of the State Tribunal are chosen from outside the Sejm. Members of the State Tribunal must hold Polish citizenship, may not have a criminal record or have had their civic rights revoked, nor may they be employed in the state administration.\n"}
{"id": "2011283", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011283", "title": "M3 Scout Car", "text": "M3 Scout Car\n\nThe M3 Scout Car (known as the White Scout Car in British Commonwealth service) was an American-produced armored car. The original M3 Scout Car was produced in limited numbers, while the improved M3A1 Scout Car saw wide service during World War II and after.\n\nThe main production variant, the M3A1 Scout Car, was a lightly armored, open topped, machine gun armed, four wheel drive vehicle designed to be used in the reconnaissance role. The M3A1 Scout Car was crewed by a driver and commander, while there was seating for six additional occupants in the rear.\n\nPowered by a Hercules JXD 6-cylinder in-line petrol engine delivering , the M3A1 Scout Car had a maximum road speed of and the fuel tank gave a maximum range of . The vehicle’s four wheel drive and bumper mounted unditching roller enabled it to cross a wide trench and climb a high step, maximum fording depth was .\n\nThe armored body of the M3A1 Scout Car was produced by the Diebold Lock and Safe Company, it had a maximum armor thickness of and was open topped, providing good fields of view but no overhead protection for the occupants, a canvas cover was provided for protection from the elements. The underside protection was also limited, giving little protection from the effects of land mines to the vehicle’s occupants.\n\nThe M3A1 Scout Car was typically armed with a .50 cal M2 Browning heavy machine gun and one or two .30 cal M1919 Browning medium machine guns, all were mounted on a skate rail upon which the pintle mounts could be moved about. Due to its open top, the occupants were also able to employ their personal weapons.\n\nThe M1 Scout Car was the first of a new series of armored cars developed by the White Motor Company for the US Army. Tested in 1934, the M1 Scout Car was an improvised, open topped four-wheel drive vehicle based on a commercial White ½-ton truck design. It weighed appropriately , was powered by a engine, and had a top speed of . The M1 Scout Car had a crew of four, a maximum armor thickness of and was armed with machine guns mounted on static mounts inside the vehicle. Seventy-six M1 Scout Cars were delivered to the US Army.\n\nThe M2 Scout Car was a development of the M1, tested in 1935 the almost identical looking M2 was larger and more powerful, designed with as many commercial components as possible to keep costs down it could accommodate a crew of seven. The M2 Scout Car weighed appropriately , was powered by a engine and retained the top speed of . Twenty M2 Scout Cars were delivered to the US Army.\n\nThe M2A1 Scout Car, later redesignated the M3 Scout Car, was a further development of the M1 and M2 Scout Cars. The M2A1 / M3 Scout Car retained the engine and had a top speed of . Sixty-four M2A1 / M3 Scout Cars were produced, all being assigned to the 7th Cavalry Brigade.\n\nThe M3A1 Scout Car was the final development of the series. Primary external differences from the M3 were a widening of the body over the fenders, the removal of the rear door of the M3 and the addition of the front roller. Internally, the M3A1 had an improved engine and was fitted with the machine gun skate rail. A total of 20,918 were produced between 1939–1944. It was the only version to see service outside of the United States.\n\nThe M3A1E1 Scout Car was developed to increase the range and fuel economy of the vehicle, it was powered by an Buda-Lanova 6DT-317 six-cylinder diesel engine. 3,340 were produced, all were sent to the Soviet Union.\n\nThe M3A1E2 Scout Car was a version with an armored roof. The M3A1E3 Scout Car was an experimental version fitted with a pedestal mounted 37 mm Gun M3. The M3A1 Command Car was a command version, fitted with an armoured screen and additional side armor.\n\nThe M2 Half Track was developed from the M3A1 Scout Car by adding half tracks to the rear of the vehicle. The post-War BTR-40 was a Soviet copy of the M3A1 Scout Car.\n\nThe M3A1 Scout Car was used by cavalry units of the US Army in its intended cavalry role during the North African Campaign and the invasion of Sicily, being employed for reconnaissance, screening and as an armored command vehicle. The M3A1 was fast and reliable, making it popular with its crews. It was considered a major disappointment in US Army service, primarily due to its poor offroad performance, but also its lack of overhead protection. Cavalry units were forced to supliment it with M2 and M3 Half-tracks.\n\nThroughout 1943, most US Army units replaced the M3A1 with the M8 armored car and the similar M20 Utility Car, although the M3A1 was retained for rear area security and convoy escort duties. A small number of M3A1s were employed in Normandy. A few M3A1s were used by the US Marine Corps in the Pacific theater, but none saw combat.\n\nGeneral George Patton used an M3A1 Scout Car as a command vehicle, modified with additional armor and a raised fighting compartment.\n\nA total of 11,401 M3A1 Scout Cars were allocated for supply to US allies under lend-lease, 6,987 were supplied to the British Commonwealth, 3,310 to the Soviet Union and 104 to the Chinese Nationalist Army. Some were also supplied to Free Belgian, Free French, Czechoslovak and Polish units.\n\nIn British Commonwealth service, the White Scout Car was regarded more as an armored truck, reflected in the designation \"Truck, 15cwt, 4x4, Armoured Personnel\", and was used in a variety of secondary roles, being issued to engineer, artillery (as an observation vehicle for field artillery observers) medical (as a protected ambulance) and signals units; within the Royal Armoured Corps’ Tank and Armoured Car Regiments it usually served in Squadron or Regimental headquarters. It was used by British Commonwealth forces in every theatre they fought in except Burma.\n\nIn Red Army service, the M3A1 was used as an armored personnel carrier by brigade and corps reconnaissance units and motorcycle battalions and regiments, operating alongside the BA-64. The M3A1 was also used as an armored command vehicle and a gun tractor for the ZIS-3 76-mm field gun, although the towing hitch proved to be unreliable, the M3A1 remained in widespread service throughout the war.\n\nThe Chinese Nationalist Army received M3A1 Scout Cars from 1942 and used them throughout the Second Sino-Japanese War and the Chinese Civil War.\n\nAfter the war, many vehicles were sold, mostly to Asian and Latin American countries while they remained in Soviet service until 1947.\n\nA few vehicles were used by Israel in the 1948 Arab–Israeli War. At least one Israeli M3A1 was modified with top armor and a revolving turret. France employed its M3A1s in the First Indochina War and the Algerian War.\n\nBy late 1990, the only country with the M3A1s remaining in service was the Dominican Republic.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2011284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011284", "title": "Shield wall", "text": "Shield wall\n\nThe formation of a shield wall ( or in Old English, in Old Norse) is a military tactic that was common in many cultures in the Pre-Early Modern warfare age. There were many slight variations of this tactic among these cultures, but in general, a shield wall was a \"wall of shields\" formed by soldiers standing in formation shoulder to shoulder, holding their shields so that they abut or overlap. Each soldier benefits from the protection of his neighbours' shields as well as his own.\n\nThis tactic was known to be used by many ancient armies including the Persian Sparabara, Greek phalanx, and Roman legion, though its origin and spread is unknown. It may have developed independently more than once.\n\nAlthough little is recorded about their military tactics, the Stele of the Vultures depicts Sumerian soldiers in a shield wall formation during the third millennium BC.\n\nBy the seventh century BC, shield walls in ancient Greece are well-documented. The soldiers in these shield wall formations were called hoplites, so named for their shields (\"hopla\", \"ὅπλα\"). Hoplon (\"Όπλον\") shields were three feet in diameter, sometimes covered in bronze. Instead of fighting individual battles in large skirmishes, hoplites fought as cohesive units in this tight formation with their shields pushing forward against the man in front (to use weight of numbers). The left half of the shield was designed to cover the unprotected right side of the hoplite next to them. The worst, or newest, fighters would be placed in the middle front of the formation to provide both physical and psychological security.\n\nIn a phalanx, the man at the right hand of each warrior had an important role; he covered the right side of the warrior next to him with his shield. This made it so that all the shields overlap each other and thus formed a solid battle line. The second row's purpose was to kill the soldiers of the first line of an enemy shield wall, and thus break the line. All the other rows were weight for the pushing match that always occurred when each side tried to break the other's wall. When a wall was broken, the battle turned into a single-combat melee in which the side whose wall collapsed had a serious disadvantage.\n\nThe Roman scutum was a large shield designed to fit with others to form a shield wall, though not overlap. Roman legions used an extreme type of shield wall called a testudo formation that covered front, sides and above. In this formation, the outside ranks formed a dense vertical shield wall and inside ranks held shields over their heads, thus forming a tortoise-like defense, well-protected from missile weapons. Although highly effective against missiles, this formation was slow, and vulnerable to being isolated and surrounded by swarms of enemy soldiers. Caesar, in \"De Bello Gallico\", describes the Germans as fighting in a tight phalanx-like formation with long spears jutting out over their shields.\n\nIn the late Roman and Byzantine armies, similar formations of locked shields and projecting spears were called \"fulcum\" (φοῦλκον, \"phoulkon\" in Greek), and were first described in the late 6th-century \"Strategikon\". Roman legions were typically well-trained, and often used short stabbing-swords (such as the gladius) in the close-quarters combat that inevitably resulted when their shield-walls contacted the enemy. As Auxiliaries were often less well-armed, a shield-wall with spearmen was commonly used to provide a better defence.\n\nThe Daylamite infantrtymen used solid shield walls while advancing against their enemies, and used their two-pronged short spears and battle-axes from behind.\n\nThe shield-wall was commonly used in many parts of Northern Europe, such as England and Scandinavia.\nIn the battles between the Anglo-Saxons and the Danes in England, most of the Saxon army would have consisted of the inexperienced \"Fyrd\" — a militia composed of free peasants. The shield-wall tactic suited such soldiers, as it did not require extraordinary skill, being essentially a shoving and fencing match with weapons.\n\nThe first three ranks of the main wall would have been made up of select warriors, such as Huscarls and Thegns, who carried heavier weapons and consistently wore armour. There would also have been nobles, such as Thegns and Earls, who would have had their own armoured retainers and bodyguards. However, the vast majority of opponents in such battles were armed with spears, which they used against the unprotected legs or faces of their opponents. Often, soldiers would use their weapons to support each other by stabbing and slashing to the left or the right, rather than just ahead. Short weapons, such as the ubiquitous seax, could also be used in the tight quarters of the wall. Limited use of archery and thrown missile weapons occurred in opening stages of shield-wall battles, but were rarely decisive to the outcome.\n\nThe drawback of the shield-wall tactic was that, once breached, the whole affair tended to fall apart rather quickly. Relatively lightly trained fyrdmen gained morale from being shoulder-to-shoulder with their comrades, but often fled once this was compromised. Once the wall was breached, it could prove difficult or impossible to re-establish a defensive line, and panic might well set in among the defenders.\n\nAlthough the importance of cavalry in the Battle of Hastings portended the end of the shield-wall tactic, massed shield-walls would continue to be employed right up to the end of the 12th century, especially in areas that were unsuitable for large scale mounted warfare, such as Scandinavia, the Swiss Alps and Scotland.\n\nThe tactic was used at the Battle of Stamford Bridge, where the relatively well-armed Saxon army hit the Viking army of King Harald Sigurdsson of Norway unaware. The Vikings were not wearing as much armour, having left their mail behind on the ships and wearing only their helmets, and after a bloody shield-wall-versus-shield-wall battle, fled in panic. Both sides lost 5–6000 each, but the numerical superiority of the English won the battle.\n\nBoth sides at the Battle of Hastings are depicted using the tactic in the Bayeux Tapestry, although the battle was ultimately won through a combination of Norman mounted cavalry and the impetuousness of less experienced Saxon warriors.\n\nThe shield-wall as a tactic has declined and has been resurrected a number of times. For example, in the Greek phalanges (the plural form of \"phalanx\"), as the dory spear gave way to the sarissa, it became impossible to carry a large shield and so it was abandoned (smaller shields were used).\n\nLikewise, in the Late Middle Ages, the shield was abandoned in favor of polearms carried with both hands (and often partial plate armor), giving rise to the pike square tactics.\n\nIn the revival of military thinking and tactics that was a part of the Renaissance, military theorists such as Niccolò Machiavelli in his \"The Art of War\" advocated a revival of the Roman legion and sword and shieldmen. But, as in the phalanges before, well-drilled pikemen displaced the shield-carrying spearmen.\n\nThe pike square remained in use on the European battlefields of the 16th and 17th centuries, but with the increasing importance of the musket, it was replaced by the line, column, and square formations in the 18th century.\n\nAlthough largely obsolete as a military tactic due to firearms and explosives, a wall of riot shields remains a common formation for police worldwide for protection against large groups using improvised weapons, punches, kicks, and thrown objects such as bricks, bottles, and Molotov cocktails.\n\n"}
{"id": "2011292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011292", "title": "Jiggs Whigham", "text": "Jiggs Whigham\n\nJiggs Whigham (born \"Oliver Haydn Whigham III\"; 20 August 1943) is an American jazz trombonist.\n\nBorn in Cleveland, Ohio, he began his professional career at the age of 17, joining the Glenn Miller/Ray McKinley orchestra in 1961. He left that band for Stan Kenton, where he played in the touring \"mellophonium\" band in 1963, then settled in New York City to play commercially.\n\nFrustrated with commercial playing, Whigham migrated to Germany, where he still lives. He taught at the Hochschule für Musik in Berlin. He played for many years in the big band of Kurt Edelhagen, was a featured soloist in the Bert Kaempfert orchestra, and was also a member of the Peter Herbolzheimer band. He is widely admired by trombonists and other musicians for his fluent and expressive playing, and has produced an extensive discography as a leader, including work with Bill Holman, Niels-Henning Ørsted Pedersen, Carl Fontana, and many others.\n\nIn more recent years, Whigham has been musical director of the in Berlin, Germany. He is formerly conductor of the BBC Big Band in Great Britain and currently co-director of the Berlin Jazz Orchestra with singer . He is featured on the Berlin Jazz Orchestra albums \"Update,\" \"You're Everything\" and music DVD (Polydor/Universal) \"Strangers In Night - The Music Of Bert Kaempfert.\" He is visiting tutor and artist at the Guildhall School of Music and Drama in London and at the Royal Northern College of Music in Manchester. He is artist-in-residence for the Conn-Selmer company, maker of the King Jiggs Whigham model trombone. He continues to tour worldwide as soloist, conductor, and educator. Since 2008 he has been a regular musical director for the working with the top student jazz musicians in Germany.\nHe makes his home in Bonn-Bad Godesberg, Germany and Cape Cod, Massachusetts.\n\n\nWith the Berlin Jazz Orchestra\n\nWith the hr-Bigband \n\nWith Carl Fontana\n\nWith Peter Herbolzheimer\n\nWith Stan Kenton\n\nWith Kenton Alumni Band\n\nWith Paul Kuhn\n\nWith Bud Shank\n\nWith others\n\n"}
{"id": "2011302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011302", "title": "Kalanchoe arborescens", "text": "Kalanchoe arborescens\n\nKalanchoe arborescens is a species of \"Kalanchoe\", native to Madagascar.\n"}
{"id": "2011304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011304", "title": "Cool McCool", "text": "Cool McCool\n\nCool McCool is an animated series that ran on NBC from September 10, 1966 to January 21, 1967, with three segments per show, in all consisting of sixty segments. It was created by Bob Kane – who was most famous as one of the creators of Batman – and produced by Al Brodax for King Features.\n\nThe show was drawn in Australia, with Artransa Park Film Studios completing the bulk of the animation. Due to the quick turn-around times required by the rapid production schedule, further animation was completed by other Australian artists such as Gus McLaren and Eric Porter Studios .\n\nRiffing off the then-popular genres of superheroes and James Bond spy adventures, \"Cool McCool\" featured the adventures of a hip, trenchcoated spy, who – as on the contemporary TV show \"Get Smart\" – defeated villains despite being comically inept. Villains included the Rattler, Hurricane Harry, the Owl, Jack-In-The-Box, and Dr. Madcap. \n\nMcCool's boss was known as Number One, although his face was never seen onscreen; only his arms and a cigar were visible behind his chair. (This was a reference to another contemporary spy show, \"The Prisoner\", which featured a spy looking for Number One who ran the prison he found himself in). Number One's secretary was Friday, a dumpy girl who had an unrequited crush on the secret agent. \n\nMcCool had three catchphrases: \"Danger is my business!\" \"When you're right, Number One, you're right,\" and (after bungling something) \"That will never happen again, Number One\" (Of course, it usually does.)\n\nThe show also featured a Keystone Kops-style segment featuring the adventures of McCool's father, Harry McCool, a uniformed police officer, presumed to have taken place decades before Cool's time. Harry was supported by his brothers Dick and Tom. Only 20 Harry McCool segments were made, each one sandwiched between the two Cool McCool segment per show.\n\nCool and Harry were voiced by Bob McFadden, while most of the other voices were supplied by Chuck McCann. Carol Corbett provided the voices of the female characters. McFadden modeled McCool's voice after comic legend Jack Benny.\n\n\nThe cartoon is a flashback, supposed to take place decades before Cool's time. At the end of every first Cool McCool segment, Cool sings about his recent missions and that he should be more like his father (a uniformed police officer who was even more of a bumbler), and the flashback segment starts.\n\n\nCool McCool's enemies. Although each villain normally acts independently (aside from married couple Dr. Madcap and Greta Ghoul who work together), the in-between sequences introducing Harry McCool shows them united in their quest to capture Cool McCool (they are usually outwitted nevertheless).\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2011305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011305", "title": "Musha'sha'iyyah", "text": "Musha'sha'iyyah\n\nThe Musha‘sha’iyyah () were a Shi'i sect founded and led by Muhammad ibn Falah, an Iraqi-born theologian who believed himself to be the earthly representative of Ali and the Mahdi. From the middle of the 15th century to the 19th century, they came to dominate much of western Khuzestan Province in southwestern Iran.\n\nBeginning in 1436, ibn Falah spread his messianic beliefs amongst the less powerful Arab tribes along the area of the present-day border of Iraq and Iran, gaining converts in an attempt to forge a strong tribal alliance. In 1441, they succeeded in capturing the city of Hoveyzeh in Khuzestan, and during the following ten years the Musha‘sha’iyyah increased their strength and consolidated their power in the area around the city and the Tigris. These early military ambitions were fueled by Muhammad ibn Falah's zealous millenarian theology, which continued to significantly influence the later military campaigns of the Musha‘sha’iyyah decades after his death.\n\nSuccessors of ibn Falah were in continual conflict with the Safavid rulers as well as with Iranian Arab tribes until overcome by the Safavids in 1508. The conflict with the Safavids was driven not only by politics and territorial domination, but also by theological differences and competition between two rival Shi'a schools of thought. According to Moojan Momen, both sects adhered to heterodox (\"ghuluww\") Shi'i beliefs.\n\nAccording to the order's Islamic eschatology, the Mahdi will appear at the end times in Yemen to lead the forces of good in a struggle against the forces of evil, who will be based in Syria and Greater Khorasan. The Musha‘sha’iyyah believed that the end times were imminent and that they would need to defeat the Safavids and gain control of Iran in order to fulfill the prophecy heralded by ibn Falah.\n\nThe Musha‘sha’iyyah gradually abandoned their heretical beliefs and were absorbed to mainstream Twelver Shī‘ah orthodoxy. Like other mystical Shī‘ah sects, they placed a great deal of importance upon poetry and art.\n\nUnreferenced sources indicate that their rule ended towards the 19th century with the rise to power of the Banu Ka'b, which, under the leadership of Jabir al-Kaabi, had become the dominant power in the western region of Iran. However, Momen writes that by the 16th century they were already reduced to being the governors of Khuzestan.\n\n"}
{"id": "2011311", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011311", "title": "Benchrest shooting", "text": "Benchrest shooting\n\nBenchrest shooting is a shooting sport discipline in which high-precision rifles are shot at paper targets. The rifles ride on a front and rear rest (which may or may not be joined depending on the rules of a particular competition) sitting on a table or bench, hence the name \"benchrest\". The shooter simply sits at the bench, in distinction to other shooting disciplines, where the shooter holds and aims the rifle without the benefit of a rest. The post-Civil War era \"double rest\" rifles were one early form of \"benchrest\" rifles.\n\nBenchrest shooters are notoriously detail-oriented and constantly trying to further the accuracy potential of the rifle through experimentation. Nearly all benchrest rifles are custom-made and many shooters do their own gunsmithing. Nearly all shooters in centerfire competition handload their ammunition in order to tune it perfectly to their rifle. In contrast, handloading ammunition is strictly prohibited by the rules for rimfire benchrest competitions.\n\nWorld Benchrest Shooting Federation (WBSF) is the main international governing body for benchrest shooting, and encompass both fullbore and smallbore competitions. World Rimfire and Air Rifle Benchrest Federation (WRABF) is a smaller international governing body focusing on smallbore competitions. International Benchrest Shooters (IBS) and Global Benchrest Association (GBA) are two organizations which are only active in the United States.\n\nThe bench rests may also provide a stable platform for sighting in less specialized firearms.\n\nThere are two major types of competition. The goal of the original benchrest shooting was to shoot 5 or 10 bullets into the smallest group possible (all in one hole). Winning placement in competition is determined by how well each competitor achieves this goal or in other words, how closely the shots are grouped. This is termed \"Group Shooting\".\n\nThe other is a more recent development, \"Score Shooting\". The difference is that the traditional bulls eye type target is used, with scoring rings are used. Winning placement is determined by each shooter's score results. This is termed \"Score Shooting\".\n\nHowever, in competitions (IBS, NBRSA, and The Original Pennsylvania 1,000 Yard Benchrest Club), the competitor's target is scored for both group size and score. A competitor may only win in one category. If, for example a single competitor has the smallest group and highest score, they will be awarded only a win for the smallest group, the next highest score will be awarded the score win.\n\nAdditionally, there is growing interest in both rimfire and airgun benchrest. Currently, both of these competitions are of the score format only.\n\nBenchrest shooters attempt to achieve the ultimate in rifle precision; records for single , 10 shot groups are as small as , the record for a single 5-shot group is (there are no 10-shot competitions at 600 yards), while 10 shot groups are around , and 10 shot groups are around . Five shot groups are significantly smaller. Groups are measured from center-to-center, thus negating the variations of different calibers. To accomplish this, the group is measured across its overall widest dispersion, then the diameter of the bullet is subtracted for the result. For example, a group measuring is scored (.375\"-.243\") for a 6 mm (.243\") bullet. Matches are shot from with rimfire rifles, up to for centerfire rifles.\n\nIn competitive group shooting at , shots often land very close together making only one ragged hole in the target, therefore a method for verifying the required number of shots (5 or 10) is used. This consists of a motorized single roll of paper stretched across and moving behind the targets which will record the number of bullets passing through each target.\n\nSince benchrest is a sport requiring the highest possible accuracy and precision, the highest precision equipment is required if a shooter is to be competitive. The rifle is the most obvious cost; the most accurate guns are custom built, and can cost thousands of dollars. Handloading equipment is also essential for centerfire shooters (rimfire rounds are generally not handloaded) to allow tuning the ammunition to the rifle. In order to achieve extreme accuracy, the guns must be fired from a stable platform called a bench, which is a heavy, solid table usually anchored into the ground. Benches made of cinder block with a poured concrete top are commonly used in competition. Wooden benches are still used on some ranges. For most rifles, rests are required to provide a stable shooting surface, and most shooters use some method of judging the direction and/or velocity of the wind on the range.\n\nRifles are usually custom-made with extreme accuracy in mind. Shooters might use heavy stainless steel barrels, scopes with high power magnification, and handmade stocks of graphite, fiberglass, or carbon fiber. Triggers are usually set to a pull of only a few ounces.\n\nBenchrest shooting grew from varmint hunting, where the shooters would aim for highly accurate rifles, using mostly .22 caliber cartridges. Initially, competitors could use just about any gun they wished. Eventually, classes of guns were created to enhance the sport's competitiveness. For example, the two long-range classes are a maximum Light Gun, and an unlimited weight Heavy Gun. Short range () centerfire group shooting encompasses the \"Light Varmint\" (maximum overall), \"Heavy Varmint\" ( overall), \"Sporter\" (, and or greater), and \"Unlimited\" classes.\n\nThe Unlimited class comes very close to living up to its name—just about any single-shot rifle qualifies, up to and including \"rail guns\", which are rifle barrels and mechanisms built into a machine, or return-to-battery (RTB) rest. With rifles such as these, some initially argued that no shooting skill was involved and was simply a test of the gunsmith's craft. However, shooting a RTB rifle requires a set of skills different than conventional marksmanship. What is removed with the return-to-battery rifle is the need to physically aim the rifle for each shot, and evaluation of how any mirage will affect the shot. Judging the wind is as difficult and important with RTB rifles as with the other rifles. Given their mechanisms, it is arguably harder to compensate for ever-changing wind conditions when using a machine rest; the usual technique is to wait for what seems to be an identical condition rather than holding for the wind. Holding for the wind is quite common with the Light and Heavy Varmint rifles, and does offer certain advantages.\n\nBenchrest matches involve careful reading of wind conditions to compensate for bullet drift, and the rifles and ammunition must be of the highest possible quality. However, claims of the superior position of machining over marksmanship skills in RTB rifle shooting are bolstered by the fact that competitors build their own rifles, and nearly all handload their ammunition to tune it to the rifle.\n\nPrecision sights are also a requirement. High quality aperture iron sights could be used, but nearly all benchrest events allow telescopic sights. High magnification scopes are generally preferred; magnifications of 24×, 36×, or higher are common when allowed. Generally scopes will have turret adjustments to allow the scope to be easily adjusted for various shooting conditions.\n\nFor benchrest shooting, scopes with a second focal plane (SFP) reticle and click adjustments of moa (approximately 0.036 mil) are most commonly used. Scope models with 0.025 mil and 0.05 mil adjustments are also becoming more available. Lower adjustment values makes it possible to more finely adjust the sight towards the center of the target, but at the cost of more adjustments to keep track of. Some also participate with sights intended for hunting or practical long range shooting (i.e. PRS). Sights intended for practical long range typically have a reticle in the first focal plane (FFP) and coarser  mil adjustments.\n\nOnly the most consistent and efficient cartridges can provide the necessary accuracy for benchrest shooting. Initially, many chamberings were tried, with the .219 Donaldson Wasp probably being the most common. The .222 Remington dominated the benchrest world from the mid-1950s until around 1975, when the wildcat 6 mm PPC, based on a modified .220 Russian case (which is in turn a boxer-primed derivative of the military 7.62×39mm), took over as the most accurate cartridge. In today's benchrest competitions, short range group is mainly shot with the 6 mm PPC, while short range score sees more rifles chambered in the .30 BR. In benchrest, the 6 mm BR Norma and a wildcat based on it, the 6 mm Dasher, are currently the most common chamberings. There is no dominant chambering in competition; choices range from the 6 mm BR and Dasher through the .338 Lapua, with a host of 6 mm, 6.5 mm, 7 mm, and .30 caliber chamberings.\n\nExcept where extremely rare competition rules stipulate factory-assembled ammunition, benchrest shooting relies exclusively on hand-loaded ammunition, which is user-assembled, round by round, with painstaking precision. Benchrest shooters' primers, powders and bullets must be of the highest quality available if they are to achieve the shot-to-shot consistency necessary for competitive performances. Most short-range benchrest shooters use precision target grade bullets made by custom bullet makers. Long-range shooters split about evenly between factory manufactured and custom-manufactured bullets. Initially, very-low-drag (VLD) bullets were preferred for long range, but both the difficulties in consistent manufacture and fussiness in consistent loading of VLD bullets have led to some compromise designs that have the promise of more consistent performance.\n\nUnlimited class rail guns are just barreled actions (the top) that ride directly on a machine rest (the base), no additional rests are needed. The base of the railgun provides adjustable feet to provide a stable position on the bench, and the rifle is aimed with horizontal and vertical adjustments built into the base.\n\nAll other rifle types have recognizable stocks, and are fired from dual sandbags; a front bag on an adjustable mechanical platform (some costing half as much as the rifle) and a special rear bag. The stocks of benchrest rifles are designed to rest on the sandbags. With short-range rifles and the lower-recoiling long-range rifles, many competitors shoot \"free recoil,\" where the rifle is not touched at all, save for the finger on the trigger. The sandbags provide all the support. By allowing the rifle to move freely backwards, the shooter hopes that the movement under recoil will be as consistent as possible. A few short-range rifles, and long-range rifles with heavy recoil must be firmly held, even though the aiming is still done with the positioning of the rests.\n\nWind flags are placed on the range between the shooter and the target, and allow a skilled shooter to judge the amount of correction that needs to be made to place each shot precisely on the target. Flags can be home built or purchased. They generally consist of a wind vane to indicate wind direction, and a cloth (or plastic) streamer and/or propeller to indicate wind speed (the higher the wind, the greater the angle of the streamer or speed of the propeller). Multiple flags are usually used, and they are placed at intervals along the path of the bullet from rifle to target.\n\nThe Supershoot is usually held the week before Memorial Day in northern Ohio. Approximately 360 shooters from around the world will gather to see who can shoot the smallest average of Light Varmint (5 groups each at ) and Heavy Varmint (5 groups/100/200).\n\nThe World Benchrest Championship is hosted in a different country every 2 years. On 27/06/2009 a world-record was set there at 300M with a 5-shot group measured center-to-center.\n\n"}
{"id": "2011314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011314", "title": "Provisioning (cruise ship)", "text": "Provisioning (cruise ship)\n\nCruise ships consume vast amounts of food every day; as an example, the following is a list of supplies provisioned on board the Celebrity cruise ship , carrying up to 1,950 passengers and 999 crew, for an average 7 day cruise.\n\n\nOf course, not all this food will be consumed during the voyage, the ship must keep a percentage in reserve to allow for delays. The figure includes all supplies for cooking meals in the three restaurants and buffets, room service, bars and lounges, as well as all baking and confectionery supplies, for officers and crew as well as passengers.\n\n\"Constellation\" at full capacity feeds 3 meals a day to over 1,950 passengers and 999 officers and crew, comparable to the provisions that any small town might consume in one week. \n\n\n\"Information provided by Celebrity Cruises shipboard literature\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2011320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011320", "title": "Lists of prehistoric fish", "text": "Lists of prehistoric fish\n\nPrehistoric fish are early fish that are known only from fossil records. They are the earliest known vertebrates, and include the first and extinct fish that lived through the Cambrian to the Quaternary. The study of prehistoric fish is called \"paleoichthyology\". A few living forms, such as the coelacanth are also referred to as prehistoric fish, or even living fossils, due to their current rarity and similarity to extinct forms. Fish which have become recently extinct are not usually referred to as prehistoric fish.\n\nGroups of various prehistoric fishes include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2011326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011326", "title": "Haji Jabir Khan Ibn Merdaw", "text": "Haji Jabir Khan Ibn Merdaw\n\nJabir Bin Merdaw Al-Kaabi (1780 – 1881) () was the Sheikh of Mohammerah during the 19th century.\n\nSheikh Jabir was troubled by intertribal wars. He therefore confined himself to an attitude of neutrality while maintaining good relations with both the Persian and Ottoman governments, and notably with the Walis of Baghdad.\n\nThe tribe which was most troubling for Jabir was the Rabi'ah. He thus turned to an ancient Arabian diplomatic practice: he married Noura, the daughter of the Sheikh of the Rabi'ah, Talal, in order to appease the opposition of that tribe. One son was born from this union, to become the last ruler of autonomous Arabistan. \n\nThe constant conflict between the Ottomans and the Qajars, the weakening of these empires, as well as the intelligent diplomacy of Sheikh Jabir would result in the Persian emperor, Naser al-Din Shah Qajar, recognising Arabistan as the dominion of Sheikh Jabir and his successors. The Shah agreed to not interfere in the internal affairs of the emirate.\n\nJabir passed away on 2 November 1881 and was succeeded by his second son Miz'al Khan ibn Haji Jabir Khan.\n\nhttps://www.royalark.net/Persia/moham3.htm\n"}
{"id": "2011338", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011338", "title": "MR-UR-100 Sotka", "text": "MR-UR-100 Sotka\n\nThe MR-UR-100 Sotka was a MIRV-warhead intercontinental ballistic missile (ICBM) developed and deployed by the Soviet Union from 1978 to 1993. The missile was given the NATO reporting name SS-17 Spanker and was built under the Soviet industry designation 15A15. An alternative designation for the missile is the UR-100MR.\n\nOKB-586 developed the MR-UR-100 project. The purpose was to develop a MIRV capable replacement for the existing UR-100 missiles in service. While designed to fit into existing UR-100 silos, it still required some modification of existing silos to accommodate the new missile, due to its requirement for a cold launch system.\n\nThe development of \"modernized UR-100\" was authorized on 19 August 1970 (document No.682-218) and assigned to both OKB-586 and TsKBM (builder of UR-100). The design bureau conducted flight tests from 1971 through 1974. Deployment commenced in December 1978. The more advanced MR-UR-100UTTh version began development in 1979, with flight tests from 1977 through 1979. The new missiles had completely replaced the original version by 1983, at which time the Soviets fielded 270 launchers. From there the number of launchers declined, and by the 1991 START I Treaty they were down to 76. All were scheduled for dismantling and removed from the inventory.\n\nIn the historical fiction novel \"The Third World War\", written by General Sir John Hackett, a warhead from a MR-UR-100 detonates 3500m above Birmingham, England at 10:30 hours GMT on 20 August 1985. The explosion kills 300,000 people within minutes, with a further 250,000 likely to die in the aftermath.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2011339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011339", "title": "Kent Archaeological Society", "text": "Kent Archaeological Society\n\nThe Kent Archaeological Society was founded in 1857 to promote the study and publication of archaeology and history, especially that pertaining to the ancient county of Kent in England. This includes the modern administrative county as well as areas now subsumed by south east London and in the district of Medway.\n\nIt carries out archaeological surveys and excavations funded through membership subscriptions as well as being involved in the protection and recording of historic buildings and churches. In addition, it organises lectures, excursions and other education projects and can make grants or loans of equipment to archaeological projects. A library in the museum at Maidstone is available for members' use and a field school is often run in the summer.\n\nIt publishes an annual journal, \"Archaeologia Cantiana\", and a quarterly newsletter. Through its Record Series, it publishes editions of archival texts relating to the county, and it therefore functions as the record society for Kent. It publishes other occasional volumes on specific topics.\n\nRecent projects include assisting in the excavation of the Ringlemere barrow and a translation and record of the Kent Hundred Rolls. A number of local societies are affiliated to it and it has links with national and county archaeological organisations.\n\n"}
{"id": "2011349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011349", "title": "Laser Quest", "text": "Laser Quest\n\nLaser Quest is the name of a Canadian/English indoor lasertag game using infrared (IR) hand-held units and vests. It is also the name of the company which operates each game centre. There are over 100 Laser Quest centres worldwide, including ones in Canada, the United States, Mexico, the UK, the Republic of Ireland, France, Portugal, Singapore and the Netherlands. Laser Quest's oldest centre is located in Stourbridge, West Midlands, England.\n\nThe player's goal in Laser Quest is to tag their opponents as many times as possible, while the player avoids being tagged. The players are equipped with an infrared/laser hand held unit and a pack with infrared sensors. Players start the game in a large multi-level maze-like arena filled with ramps, catwalks and windows. In Laser Quest centres, the playing arenas are filled with theatrical fog and black light, strobes and UV-reactive painted surfaces. While play can seem chaotic, there are rules that are enforced. Players recite a \"Player's Code\" in the Briefing Room, where they go to learn how to play the game. The Player's Code includes a vow not to run, climb, jump, sit, kneel, lie down, cover any sensors, make physical contact with other players, use offensive language, and to 'play fair, play smart, and give it my all!'. At least one employee or \"Marshal\" is present in the arena at all times, to ensure fair and safe game play and to make sure people enjoy their time. The player's code in the late 1990s early 2000 used to end with \"Play hard, play smart, and play to survive,\" instead of the current \"play fair, play smart and give it my all.\"\n\nEvery LQ centre is equipped with approximately 30 packs, also called vests or ponchos. This number varies with busier arenas having more packs to accommodate larger crowds. The pack is made of a thick canvas-type material that hangs over the shoulders. When laid out flat on a table the vest forms a diamond shape. Sensors placed on various parts of the vest covering the chest, the back, and each shoulder. \"There are additional sensors housed within the hand-held 'laser' unit located at the front, and both sides of the laser.\"\n\nThe infrared sensors are attached to printed circuit boards, which include several colours of LEDs, often red and green or red and blue, that light up when the pack is active. Each PCB is housed in a hard plastic cover. Part of each cover is made from clear plastic to allow the IR beams to reach the sensors.\n\nInside the laser shell is the PCB with sensors and lights, a speaker to indicate the status of the pack, a trigger, and an LCD to display the status of the pack to the player. The IR unit is what emits the visible laser the eye sees and the invisible IR beam which \"tags\" the opponent's packs.\n\nThe laser has a display in the rear. When a player is tagged, it displays the codename of the tagger and the location of the tag. It also occasionally displays the player's current ranking as the game progresses.\n\nLaser Quest players gain points by tagging other players or by tagging the opposing team's base. They lose points when they are tagged by other players, or when they are caught in a trap. The number of points lost depends on where the player hit and game settings. The scale for a typical game is as follows:\n\n\nPlayers always gain more points for making a tag than they lose for being tagged. In a standardized game, a player gains ten points when tagging another, and loses points corresponding to the above scale when they are tagged themselves.\n\nPlayers may also be awarded bonus points based on their accuracy—usually 10 points for every 1% hit rate. In other words, if a player achieved a hit rate of 10%, he or she would be awarded 100 bonus points. In a standard 'Solo' game, this bonus is limited to a maximum of 100 points, far less than the theoretical maximum of 1000 points awarded to a 100% accuracy. This prevents players tagging one person with their first tag and then hiding for the rest of the game. As it is possible to tag multiple players with one tag, it is possible for a player's accuracy ratio to exceed 100%.\n\nIn team games, the team score is the sum of all similarly-colored players' individual scores.\n\nThe hardware and software used limit what types of games a Laser Quest center can hold. Up to four different groups of settings can be created; it is normal for everyone on a team to have the same settings, though this is not required. When giving packs \"within\" a team different settings, the packs will not be visibly different in-game, with the exception of 'sentinel' packs that have the ability to give lives and ammunition to teammates. These packs are identified by an alternate light pattern on the front and back sensor.\n\nThe settings which can be altered are:\n\nThe number of shots used can be quite large; in certain game types, players routinely fire 3000+ shots. This will give an accuracy rate of perhaps 5%. This seemingly low amount is a result of constant firing and dodging, as players are not directly penalized for missed shots. The average is 6% ratio of accuracy.\n\nDowntime is defined as the period of time after a player is tagged that they remain deactivated. After the downtime has expired, the de-activated player's pack will re-energise and they are able to play as before.\n\nAlthough all players are required to recite a code of conduct before play, some may still cheat. One of the main ways in which players cheat is by taking duct tape into the arena and placing it over the sensors. Although duct tape does not completely stop the sensor from getting tagged, it does make the play difficult. Most cheating is stopped by the marshal instantly and will have the player ejected from the game for that type of behaviour. Laser pointers do not work as the hit is determined by the IR beam and not the laser beam. Another way is what players call 'Spocking', when a player makes a 'V' shape with their hand and blocks the sensor on the end of the laser.\n\nThis tournament occurs every couple of years where teams and players from the USA, Canada, Netherlands, France, and the UK (from 2019, Singapore will join as well) compete to be the best in the world. The WLC alternates between participating countries, Team North America are the current World Champions.\n\nThe next WLC will be held at Laser Quest San Jose, California, USA, in July 2019.\n\nLaser Quest used to hold a corporate tournament called the North America Challenge, or NAC. To qualify for NAC, members from a particular centre hold a series of try-outs. The top nine players, plus one potential alternate, then go to one of three regional tournaments held in June of each year. The top teams from each of these regional tournaments will then proceed to the continental tournament, typically held in September. The top teams from each regional tournaments compete in the national event to determine the best team in Laser Quest.\n\nBeginning in 1999, and continuing until 2007, the top five teams from each of the four North American regions advanced. Following a series of centre closures, and new centres opening, regional lines were redrawn and three regions formed.\n\nChanged again in 2010, each centre did not have a tryout, and teams were able to form their own homegrown teams, with 8 starters, and 1 extra for an alternate.\n\nThis 9-man constructed team tournament consists of players from UK, France and the Netherlands. The tournament is held annually, with the location alternating amongst participating countries. The current format of the tournament is 6-man teams compete in triple-quest prelim games, then depending on their prelim rank they will either play the cup or plate knockouts which are pack-set double/triple quest games. The top teams in the cup and the plate will then go onto the finals which are pack-set double-quest games.\n\nCurrently, 14 European Championships have taken place. France currently holds 7 European titles. The UK holds 5 European titles. The Netherlands holds 2 European titles. France are the current European Champions. However, The Tribe Called Quest, UK is the team with the most wins.\n\n"}
{"id": "2011351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011351", "title": "Anixi", "text": "Anixi\n\nAnoixi (, meaning \"spring\") is a suburban town in East Attica, Greece. Since the 2011 local government reform it is part of the municipality Dionysos, of which it is a municipal unit. The municipal unit has an area of 4.582 km.\n\nAnoixi is situated in the hills in the northeastern part of the Athens conurbation, at about 370 m elevation. It lies east of the Parnitha mountains and northwest of the Penteliko Mountain. It is 1 km south of Agios Stefanos, 9 km west of Marathon and 20 km northeast of Athens city centre. Its built-up area is continuous with those of the neighbouring suburbs Agios Stefanos, Drosia and Stamata. \n\nMotorway 1 (Athens - Lamia - Thessaloniki) and the railway from Athens to Thessaloniki pass west of the town. Greek National Road 83 (Athens - Marathon - Rafina) passes through Anoixi.\n\n"}
{"id": "2011363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011363", "title": "Miz'al Khan ibn Haji Jabir Khan", "text": "Miz'al Khan ibn Haji Jabir Khan\n\nMaz'al ibn Jabir (18?? – 1897, styled Muaz us-Sultana) was the son of Haji Jabir Khan Ibn Merdaw and succeeded him as tribal leader of the \"Bani Kaab\" and Sheikh of Mohammerah upon his father's death. This was confirmed by an Imperial Qajar \"farman\" (executive order). Some accounts state that he was assassinated by his younger brother, Khaz'al Khan, while others state that this was done by a palace guard under orders from Khaz'al.\n"}
{"id": "2011365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011365", "title": "Uzungöl", "text": "Uzungöl\n\nUzungöl (Long Lake), or in the local Romeyka language: Şeraho, is a lake situated to the south of the city of Trabzon, in the Çaykara district of Trabzon Province, Turkey. Uzungöl is also the name of the village on the lake's coast. Over the years, the picturesque lake, its village and the surrounding valley have become popular tourist attractions. The lake is at a distance of 99 km from Trabzon's city center, and 19 km from Çaykara's district center. It was formed by a landslide, which transformed the stream bed into a natural dam, in the valley of the Haldizen Stream.\n\nThe area is most famous for its natural environment. Located in a valley between high rising mountains, the lake and village at first appear inaccessible. The surrounding mountain forests and fog, occasionally enveloping the lake at night, also add to the scenery.\n\nThe tourist boom of the recent years has attracted investors, who opened a number of hotels, restaurants, and souvenir shops in the village. The transport infrastructure has also been improved. In 2008, the government built a concrete barrier along the lake's shoreline, so that its waves would not wet the coastal roads around it. This has triggered protests by the locals, as well as ecologists concerned with environmental damage, who stated that it has turned the lake into a giant artificial pool.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2011367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011367", "title": "Supreme Audit Office (Poland)", "text": "Supreme Audit Office (Poland)\n\nThe Supreme Audit Office (, abbreviated \"NIK\") is the supreme audit institution and also one of the oldest state institutions in Poland, created under the Second Republic on February 7, 1919, barely 3 months after the restoration of Poland's independence. It was created on the initiative of the Head of State, Józef Piłsudski. Its organisation and functioning are set out in the Constitution of the Republic of Poland and the NIK Act of 23 December 1994. The NIK is subordinate to the Sejm (lower chamber of the Polish Parliament) and it acts in accordance with the principle of collegiate responsibility. The NIK is headed by the President who is appointed by the Sejm for a six-year term of office. The NIK performs audits related to, primarily, the execution of the state budget as well as public finance spending and management of public property by state and local governmental bodies and economic entities. Every year, the NIK submits three key documents to the Sejm: the analysis of the state budget execution and monetary policy guidelines, the opinion on the vote of discharge for the Council of Ministers and the annual report on the NIK’s activity.\nFrom its very first day, NIK has been the country's supreme audit institution, empowered to exercise wide-ranging audit of the revenue and expenditure of the state and all institutions and corporations that make use of public funds. NIK is entitled to audit all state institutions, government and local government administrative units, together with those corporate bodies and non-governmental organisations which perform public contracts or receive government grants and guarantees. \n\nThe Constitution of the Republic of Poland, and the statute relating to the NIK, determine that the Polish SAI functions on the principle of collegiate responsibility. The Speaker of the Parliament appoints members of the College for a three-year tenure. The tasks of the College include the approval of the analysis of the state budget execution and the principles of fiscal policy, the audit of the NIK’s performance, formulating an opinion concerning certification of performance of duties part of discharge procedure of the government, the work plan and the draft budget for the NIK. The College assesses audit programmes and the outcomes of particularly important audits. It also considers post audit objections.\n\nUnder the current regulations, NIK is answerable to the Sejm, which appoints its President for a 6-year term, with the approval of the Senate. Terms of office of the President of the NIK do not necessarily coincide with those of the Parliament, which in practice prevents this office from being dependent on any political party. Like members of the Sejm, the President of NIK also enjoys immunity: he cannot be arrested or indicted without the consent of the Sejm. Currently, the post of the President of the NIK is held by Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, appointed on August 27, 2013.\n\nThe Supreme Audit Office operates through its Departments and Regional Branches. The division into Departments reflects the scope of the matters it audits, and thus NIK includes the following Departments:\n\n\nOther Departments of the NIK:\n\n\nThe division into Regional Branches is connected with the territorial division of Poland. The number of NIK Regional Branches, 16, equals that of the voivodeships.\n\nNIK institutes audit proceedings on its own initiative, at the request of Sejm or its bodies or representatives (e.g. the Speaker of Sejm), the President of the Republic, or the Prime Minister. Special types of NIK activities include audits of the state budget execution and of the principles of monetary policy, as well as the NIK opinion in votes of confidence for the Council of Ministers.\n\nThe NIK fulfils its tasks based on periodic work plans. In the first instance, the audit of the state budget execution is completed, as the NIK is legally bound to conduct this activity. NIK undertakes other audits according to prioritised directions established by the NIK College for a period of three years. The NIK establishes whether the state fulfils its obligations towards its citizens, as well as indicates areas in which there are concerns, in particular ones that could be hindering proper development. Each year new audit areas are selected according to which specific themes for planned audits are programmed. NIK can also undertake ad hoc audits.\n\nThe Supreme Audit Office cooperates with similar bodies in the European Union countries, with the European Court of Auditors, International Board of Auditors for NATO, as well as the auditing authorities in other countries of Central and Eastern Europe such as the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Russia, and Hungary.\n\nThe Supreme Audit Office also cooperates with its European partners within the framework of EUROSAI - the European Organisation of Supreme Audit Institutions, which is one of seven regional groups of INTOSAI - the International Organisation of Supreme Audit Institutions. , President of the NIK was the Chair of EUROSAI Governing Board in 2008-2011.\n\n"}
{"id": "2011377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011377", "title": "Hammerstein Ballroom", "text": "Hammerstein Ballroom\n\nThe Hammerstein Ballroom is a ballroom located within the Manhattan Center at 311 West 34th Street in Midtown Manhattan, New York City. The capacity of the ballroom is dependent on the configuration of the room; it seats 2,500 people for theatrical productions and musical performances, and several thousand for events held within a central ring. The floor of the ballroom is flat. The two main balconies – which are unusually close to the ground and gently sloped – seat a total of 1,200. The third balcony has been stripped of seats and is not used. \n\nThe Manhattan Center was constructed in 1906 by Oscar Hammerstein I as the Manhattan Opera House, the home for his Manhattan Opera Company, an alternative to the popular yet comparatively expensive Metropolitan Opera. In 1910, the Metropolitan Opera paid Hammerstein $1.2 million to stop operating the Manhattan Opera House as an opera venue for ten years. This led to the elaborately decorated theater being used for a variety of events, including vaudeville.\n\nThe ownership of the center changed hands multiple times over the next few decades, with the theater being converted into a large ballroom and being used as a Freemason's temple in the 1930s and a trade union headquarters in the 1940s before falling into disuse in the 1970s, before being bought by Sun Myung Moon's Unification Church, the ballroom's current owner. The building was renamed Manhattan Center Studios in 1986, and in 1997 the former theater was renamed the Hammerstein Ballroom and underwent extensive renovation, with the hand painted ceiling being completely restored.\n\nThe Hammerstein Ballroom has seen performances from a wide variety of musical acts and its popularity has varied over the years due mainly to competition within the neighborhood.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2011381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011381", "title": "Volkov (crater)", "text": "Volkov (crater)\n\nVolkov is a lunar impact crater on the Moon's far side. It is located to the north of the prominent crater Tsiolkovskiy, and east-southeast of Dobrovol'skiy. Overlying the southeastern rim of Volkov is the satellite crater Volkov J, and the two have merged to form a figure-8 shape. The crater Lander is attached to the southwest rim of Volkov J, making this a triple-crater formation.\n\nThe outer rim of Volkov is moderately eroded, with a small crater across the northeast rim and a gap in the southeast where it joins Volkov J. The inner walls are relatively featureless, with a few tiny craterlets marking the surface. The interior floor of the crater is lumpy, with low hills and a few tiny craterlets.\n\nIt is named after Russian–Soviet cosmonaut Vladislav Volkov who died in Soyuz 11 mission on 30 June 1971 during the vehicle's return to the Earth.\n\nBy convention these features are identified on lunar maps by placing the letter on the side of the crater midpoint that is closest to Volkov.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2011382", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011382", "title": "Kip McKean", "text": "Kip McKean\n\nThomas Wayne \"Kip\" McKean II (born May 31, 1954) is an American former minister of the International Churches of Christ and is a current minister of the City of Angels International Christian Church and World Missions Evangelist of the International Christian Churches, also known as the \"Portland/Sold-Out Discipling Movement\".\n\nMcKean was born in Indianapolis, Indiana. He married Havana-born Elena Garcia-Bengochea on December 11, 1976. Bengochea is a Women's Ministry Leader in the City of Angels International Christian Church. They have three children.\n\nMcKean was baptized in 1972 while a freshman at the University of Florida in Gainesville. His mentor, Charles H. \"Chuck\" Lucas, was the evangelist of the 14th Street Church of Christ at the time.\n\nIn 1976, McKean was hired as campus minister for the Heritage Chapel Church of Christ, located at Eastern Illinois University in Charleston, Illinois.\n\nMcKean moved to the Boston area in 1979 and began working in the Lexington Church of Christ. He asked them to \"redefine their commitment to Christ,\" and introduced the use of discipling partners. The congregation grew rapidly, and was renamed the Boston Church of Christ.\n\nIn the mid-1980s, McKean became leader of both Boston and Crossroads Movements, eventually splitting from mainstream Churches of Christ, to become the International Church of Christ (ICOC).\n\nThe movement was first recognized as an independent religious group in 1992 when John Vaughn, a church growth specialist at Fuller Theological Seminary, listed them as a separate entity. \"Time\" magazine ran a full-page story on the movement in 1992 calling them \"one of the world's fastest-growing and most innovative bands of Bible thumpers\" that had grown into \"a global empire of 103 congregations from California to Cairo with total Sunday attendance of 50,000\", and which also raised concerns about authoritarian leadership, pressure placed on members, and whether the group should be considered a cult.\n\nA formal break was made from the mainline Churches of Christ in 1993 when the movement organized under the name \"International Churches of Christ.\" This new designation formalized a division that was already in existence between those involved with the Crossroads/Boston Movement and \"mainline\" Churches of Christ.\n\nIn 1990, the McKeans moved to Los Angeles to lead the Los Angeles International Church of Christ, where they presided through the 1990s.\n\nBeginning in the late 1990s, McKean's moral authority as the leader of the movement came into question. Expectations for continued numerical growth and the pressure to sacrifice financially to support missionary efforts took its toll. Added to this was the loss of local leaders to new planting projects. In some areas, decreases in membership began to occur. At the same time, realization was growing that the accumulated cost of his leadership style and associated advantages were outweighing the benefits. In 2001, McKean was asked by a group of long-standing elders in the ICoC to take a sabbatical from overall leadership of the ICOC. On 12 November 2001, McKean wrote that he had decided to take a sabbatical from his role as the leader of the International Churches of Christ. He issued the following statement:\nOne year later, In November 2002, McKean announced his resignations from his roles as World Missions Evangelist and leader of the world sector leaders. He cited ongoing family problems, apologized for his own arrogance and said that his sins \"have weakened and embittered many in our churches\", and \"these sins have surfaced in my family as well as the church.\" A year earlier one of his children had left the church. Referring to this event, McKean said: \"This, along with my leadership sins of arrogance, and not protecting the weak caused uncertainty in my leadership among some of the World Sector Leaders.\" Additionally, his over emphasis on numerical goals, not seeking discipling in his own life and claiming God's victories as his own, were cited by McKean as the reasons for his resignation.\n\nHis resignation was acknowledged by a letter from the elders the following day.\n\nAfter a period leading an ICOC congregation in Portland, Oregon, he started a new church separated from the ICOC. This movement was named the \"International Christian Church\" by him. The period following McKean's resignation from leadership and departure was followed by a number of changes in the ICoC.\n\nOn 15 October 2006, McKean published in the Portland church bulletin the first of a three-part series entitled, \"Partners in the Gospel.\" Though the names \"Portland Movement\" and \"Sold-Out Discipling Movement\" had been used for over a year, these three articles were the first formal announcement of the birth of the International Christian Church. It was only after this October 2006 date that any church affiliated with the Portland Church changed their name to ICC.\n\nSince 2006, the congregations under McKean's leadership have been called the International Christian Church.\n\nIn April 2007, McKean and his wife Elena left the Portland International Christian Church to plant the City of Angels International Christian Church in Los Angeles. McKean and his wife were accompanied by 40 other leaders from the Portland ICC.\n\nMcKean has written a short book entitled \"Go Make Disciples: The Dream\". He has also written \"First Principles Study Series\" and \"Second Principles: Survey of the Old Testament.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2011385", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011385", "title": "Homer the Vigilante", "text": "Homer the Vigilante\n\n\"Homer the Vigilante\" is the eleventh episode of \"The Simpsons\"<nowiki>'</nowiki> fifth season. It originally aired on the Fox network in the United States on January 6, 1994. In the episode, a crime wave caused by an elusive cat burglar plagues Springfield. Lisa is distraught when her saxophone is stolen, and Homer promises to get it back. The police are ineffective, so Homer takes charge of a neighborhood watch. Under his leadership it becomes a vigilante group which fails to catch the burglar. With the help of Grampa, Homer discovers that the burglar is a charming senior named Molloy. Molloy is arrested, but he outwits the citizens of Springfield and escapes.\n\nThe episode was written by John Swartzwelder and directed by Jim Reardon. Sam Neill guest starred in the episode as Molloy. \"Homer the Vigilante\" was selected for release in a 1997 video collection of selected episodes titled: \"The Simpsons: Crime and Punishment\". It features cultural references to films such as \"It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World\" and \"\". \n\nSince airing, the episode has received positive reviews from television critics. It acquired a Nielsen rating of 12.2, and was the highest-rated show on the Fox network the week it aired.\n\nSpringfield is plagued by a cat burglar who makes several robberies, including the Simpsons' house. Among the stolen items are Lisa's saxophone, Marge's pearl necklace, Bart's stamp collection, and a handheld television. The town's residents arm themselves and install security devices to thwart the burglar. A neighborhood watch group is formed and Homer is elected as its leader. The street patrol soon devolves into a vigilante group whose members violate laws instead of catching criminals. When Homer is interviewed on news anchor Kent Brockman's \"Smartline\", the cat burglar calls the show and reveals he plans to steal the world's largest cubic zirconia from the Springfield museum.\n\nHomer's posse guards the museum, refusing the help of Grampa and his friends from the Springfield Retirement Castle. After Homer spots a group of teenagers drinking beer, he leaves his post to intervene but gets drunk with them instead. When the cat burglar steals the zirconia, Homer is blamed and pelted with vegetables by the unforgiving townspeople. Later Grampa reveals the cat burglar is a fellow resident of the retirement home named Molloy.\nHomer captures Molloy at the home and the surprisingly amiable cat burglar returns the objects he stole. Chief Wiggum arrests and imprisons him.\n\nAt the police station, Molloy casually observes that Homer and the cops would like to know where he hid his loot. When Molloy tells them the stash is hidden under a giant \"T\" somewhere in Springfield, they rush from the station hoping to find the buried treasure. Soon the entire town learns of Molloy's stash and races to find it first. After the residents excavate the site, they find a box with a note inside saying there is no treasure — it was just a ruse to allow Molloy to escape from his cell. Several citizens continue to dig, convinced a real treasure must be buried deeper. After they dig about 100 feet down, Mayor Quimby concludes they are unlikely to find anything.\n\nThe episode was written by John Swartzwelder and directed by Jim Reardon. New Zealand actor Sam Neill guest starred in the episode as Molloy, the cat burglar. Executive producer David Mirkin thought Neill, a big \"The Simpsons\" fan, was \"lovely\" to direct. Mirkin also said Neill was \"really game\" and did \"a terrific job\" on the episode. Neill considers recording this episode to be a \"high-point\" of his career. One scene of the episode features Kent Brockman reporting on the burglaries. Mirkin said this was a joke the staff enjoyed doing because it pointed out how negative and mean-spirited news broadcasts can be, and how they are seemingly \"always trying to scare everybody\" by creating panic and depression.\n\n\"Homer the Vigilante\" originally aired on the Fox network in the United States on January 6, 1994. The episode was selected for release in a 1997 video collection of selected episodes titled: \"The Simpsons: Crime and Punishment\". Other episodes included in the collection set were \"Marge in Chains\", \"Bart the Fink\", and \"You Only Move Twice\". It was included in \"The Simpsons\" season five DVD set, \"The Simpsons - The Complete Fifth Season\", which was released on December 21, 2004. Creator Matt Groening, supervising director David Silverman, and Mirkin appeared in the episode's audio commentary on the season five DVD. The episode was again included in the 2005 DVD release of the \"Crime and Punishment\" set.\n\nThe Molloy character is based on actor David Niven's performance as the character A. J. Raffles, a gentleman thief, in the 1939 film \"Raffles\". The music heard at the beginning of the episode during the burglaries is taken from the film \"The Pink Panther\", in which Niven played The Phantom, a similar character. Flanders tells Homer that his Shroud of Turin beach towels were stolen during one of the burglaries. Apu protects the Kwik-E mart with a rifle in a way similar to many of the images of Korean grocery store owners during the 1992 Los Angeles riots. Homer's dream of riding a nuclear bomb into oblivion is a reference to the famous scene from the film \"\". Homer's line \"\"So I said, Look buddy, your car was upside-down when I got here. And as for your grandma, she shouldn't have mouthed off like that!\"\" is a reference to Flannery O'Connor's short story \"A Good Man Is Hard to Find\". The scene of Homer and Principal Skinner talking in front of the museum is a reference to a scene from the television series \"Dragnet\". In a reference to the plot of the 1963 film \"It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World\", Molloy sends the residents of Springfield on a hunt for a treasure that is buried under a big letter. The ending sequence of the episode also references the film by using the same music and camera angles. In another scene that references \"It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World\", Bart tricks American actor Phil Silvers into driving his car into a river, just like Silvers's character did in the film.\n\nIn its original broadcast, \"Homer the Vigilante\" finished 41st in the ratings for the week of January 3–9, 1994, with a Nielsen rating of 12.2, equivalent to approximately 11.5 million viewing households. It was the highest-rated show on the Fox network that week.\n\nSince airing, the episode has received mostly positive reviews from television critics. The authors of the book \"I Can't Believe It's a Bigger and Better Updated Unofficial Simpsons Guide\", Warren Martyn and Adrian Wood, thought it was \"a bit lacking in focus\", but it contained \"a number of satisfying set-pieces — we like Professor Frink's walking house security system — and displays Wiggum at his all-time most useless.\" \n\nDVD Movie Guide's Colin Jacobson wrote: \"After the many plots of the prior show, 'Vigilante' maintains a much tighter focus. It’s not quite as wonderful an episode as its immediate predecessor, but it’s strong nonetheless. Much of the humor comes from Homer’s newfound power and abuse of it. If nothing else, it’s a great program due to Homer’s reaction to Lisa’s jug playing.\" \n\nPatrick Bromley of DVD Verdict gave the episode a grade of B, and Bill Gibron of DVD Talk gave it a score of 4 out of 5.\n\nLes Winan of Box Office Prophets named \"Homer the Vigilante\", \"Cape Feare\", \"Homer Goes to College\", \"$pringfield\", and \"Deep Space Homer\" his favorite episodes of season five. \n\nIt was also the \"Liverpool Daily Post\"'s Mike Chapple's favorite episode of the season together with \"Bart Gets an Elephant\" and \"Burns' Heir\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2011389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011389", "title": "Asia Pacific United Party", "text": "Asia Pacific United Party\n\nThe Asia Pacific United Party was a New Zealand political party serving the country's Asian and Pacific Islander populations. It was formed in anticipation of the MMP electoral system, which made it easier for smaller parties to be elected. In the 1996 election, the party stood nine candidates won 0.02% of the vote, insufficient to gain any seats. The party, although registered, did not submit a list for the 1999 elections, and none of its electorate candidates were elected. It subsequently merged with United New Zealand.\n\n"}
{"id": "2011391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011391", "title": "The Big Trail", "text": "The Big Trail\n\nThe Big Trail is a 1930 American pre-Code early widescreen movie shot on location across the American West starring John Wayne in his first leading role and directed by Raoul Walsh.\n\nIn 2006, the United States Library of Congress deemed this film \"culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant\", and selected it for preservation in the National Film Registry, saying \"the plot of a trek along the Oregon Trail is aided immensely by the majestic sweep provided by the experimental Grandeur wide-screen process used in filming\".\n\nA large caravan of settlers attempt to cross the Oregon Trail. Breck Coleman (John Wayne) is a young trapper who just got back to Missouri from his travels near Santa Fe, seeking to avenge the death of an old trapper friend who was killed the winter before along the Santa Fe Trail for his furs, by Red Flack (Tyrone Power, Sr.) and his minion Lopez (Charles Stevens). At a large trading post owned by a man named Wellmore, Coleman sees Flack and suspects him right away as being one of the killers. Flack likewise suspects Coleman as being somebody who knows too much about the killing. Coleman is asked by a large group of settlers to scout their caravan west, and declines, until he learns that Flack and Lopez were just hired by Wellmore to boss a bull train along the as-yet-unblazed Oregon Trail to a trading post in northern Oregon Territory (which at the time extended into current British Columbia), owned by another Missouri fur trader. Coleman agrees to scout for the train, so he can keep an eye on the villains and kill them as soon as they reach their destination. The caravan of settlers in their Prairie schooners would follow Wellmore's ox-drawn train of Conestoga Wagons, as the first major group of settlers to move west on the Oregon Trail. The film is set somewhere between 1837 and 1845. This is historically accurate, as the first major wave of settlers on the Oregon Trail was in 1843, although the details were completely different.\n\nColeman finds love with young Ruth Cameron (Marguerite Churchill), whom he'd kissed accidentally, mistaking her for somebody else. Unwilling to accept her attraction toward him, Ruth gets rather close to a gambler acquaintance of Flack's, Thorpe (Ian Keith), who joined the trail after being caught gambling. Coleman and Flack have to lead the settlers west, while Flack does everything he can to have Coleman killed before he finds any proof of what he'd done. The three villains' main reason for going west is to avoid the hangman's noose for previous crimes, and all three receive frontier justice instead. The settlers trail ends in an unnamed valley, where Coleman and Ruth finally settle down together amidst giant redwoods.\n\n\nReputedly (the claim is unconfirmed) the initial script, then called \"The Oregon Trail\", was first offered to director John Ford who then passed it on to his friend Raoul Walsh.\n\nFor the film, Walsh had employed 93 actors and used as many as 725 natives from five different Indian tribes. He also obtained 185 wagons, 1,800 cows, 1,400 horses, 500 buffalos and 700 chickens, pigs and dogs for the production of the film.\n\nWalsh offered the lead to actor Gary Cooper, who couldn't accept it. According to John Ford's later account, Walsh supposedly then asked Ford for casting suggestions, whereupon Ford recommended a then-unknown named John Wayne because he \"liked the looks of this new kid with a funny walk, like he owned the world\". When Wayne professed inexperience, Walsh told him to just \"sit good on a horse and point\". Walsh said that he initially saw Wayne, then a prop man, moving heavy furniture as though it were light as a feather, then decided to test him for the part. Almost a decade later, Ford began saying that he himself had discovered Wayne as a prop man when casting \"Stagecoach\" (1939), even though Wayne had played the lead in dozens of movies by then throughout the 1930s. Ford stuck to this obviously false story in interviews for the rest of his life. Filming on \"The Big Trail\" began on-location just outside Santa Fe, New Mexico in April 1930, which was unheard of at the time and quickly became very costly to the studio.\n\nThe shoot lasted from April 20 to August 20, 1930 and was filmed in seven states. The film was shot in an early widescreen process called 70 mm Grandeur film, which was first used in the film \"Fox Movietone Follies of 1929\". Grandeur was used by the Fox Film Corporation for a handful of films released in 1929 and 1930, of which \"The Big Trail\" was the last. Grandeur proved financially unviable for an industry still investing in the switch to talking pictures.\n\nThe scene of the wagon train drive across the country was pioneering in its use of camera work and the depth and view of the epic landscape. An effort was made to lend authenticity to the movie, with the wagons drawn by oxen instead of horses – they were lowered by ropes down canyons when necessary for certain shots in narrow valleys. Tyrone Power, Sr.'s character's clothing looks realistically grimy, and even the food supplies the 'immigrants' carried with them in their wagons were thoroughly researched. Locations in five states, starting from New Mexico to California, were used to film the caravan's trek.\n\nAfter shooting, the film was previewed to select audiences and generally released on October 1930. \"Often the scenes\" in the film, wrote Mordaunt Hall in \"The New York Times\" \"cause one to marvel at their naturalness and beauty. It has a thunderstorm that looks as real as the land, water and sky that confront one throughout this production\". According to Hall, in one sequence, featuring a native American attack, \"suddenly it seems as though one were tugged from one's seat and thrown in front of the charging horses, which appear to plunge from the screen and disappear into the velvety darkness of the theatre\".\n\nHowever, the movie became a box office bomb because it was released as a widescreen film during a time when theatres were unwilling to change their standard screens owing to cost. \n\nAfter completion of the film, Wayne was only cast in low-budget serials and features (mostly Poverty Row westerns); it took Wayne's role in \"Stagecoach\" (1939) for him to become an established performer. It would be over 20 years before the concept of widescreen films was revived.\n\nBeyond the format difference, the 70mm and 35mm versions vary substantially from each other. They were shot by different cameras, and footage for each format was edited separately in the cutting room. Some scenes were shot simultaneously by both cameras, the only difference being the angle (with the better angle usually given to the 70mm camera). Some scenes were shot first by one camera, and then retaken with the other camera. The 70mm cameras could not focus well up close, so their shots were mainly panoramas with very few close-ups. The 35mm cameras could move in and focus at short distances. Thus, scenes in the 70mm version might show two characters talking to each other in the same take, making greater use of the widescreen frame, while the 35mm version would have close-up shots cutting back and forth between the two characters. This may have been an artistic choice as much as a technical one. The cinematographer responsible for the 70mm version of the picture, Arthur Edeson, wrote in the September 1930 issue of \"American Cinematographer\": \"Grandeur reduces the number of close-ups considerably, as the figures are so much larger that semi-close-ups are usually all that is needed\".\n\nIn editing the films, some scenes were edited out for one version but allowed to remain in the other. The 35mm version was edited to be shorter, so many scenes in the 70mm version are not found in the 35mm. However, there are a few scenes in the 35mm version not found in the 70mm. The 35mm version was 108 minutes, but the 70mm was longer at 122 minutes.\n\nAs 2018, Rotten Tomatoes gives the film an overall rating of 100%.\n\nA neglected film for many years, it was only seen in the conventional 35mm version for decades. In the early 1980s, the Museum of Modern Art in New York City, which held the original 70mm nitrate camera negative, wished to preserve the film but found that nitrate decomposition had left it too shrunken and fragile to be copied to safety film, and that no film lab would touch it. Over a year-long project, Karl Malkames, a specialist in film restoration technology, designed and built a special printer to preserve this version of the film. The image on the original negative was transferred to 35mm anamorphic master. The printer copied at a speed of one frame a second, leading to the film's year-long process in preserving its original form.\n\nDave Kehr wrote for the \"Chicago Tribune\" in 1988: \"The added richness of resolution and the silvery sheen that the first generation 70 mm. nitrate prints would have provided can only be imagined. And yet, \"The Big Trail\" remains an eye-popping experience\".\n\nThe 70mm version was finally seen on cable television in the late 1990s. The 35mm version had been released to VHS and DVD previously for several years. A two-disc restored DVD was released in the US on May 13, 2008 featuring the 35mm and the 70mm version. A Blu-ray edition featuring the 70mm version was released in September 2012.\n\nA fairly common practice in the early sound era was to simultaneously produce at least one foreign-language version of a film for release in non-English-speaking countries; an approach later replaced by simply dubbing the dialogue. There were at least four foreign-language versions made of \"The Big Trail\", all filmed in 35mm, 1.20:1 ratio and using different casts and different character names:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2011397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011397", "title": "Large Marge", "text": "Large Marge\n\n\"Large Marge\" is the fourth episode of the fourteenth season of the American animated television sitcom \"The Simpsons\". It originally aired on the Fox network in the United States on November 24, 2002. In the episode, Marge decides to get liposuction, thinking that Homer does not find her attractive anymore. However, she accidentally receives breast implants, so she becomes adored by many men in Springfield and becomes a model. Meanwhile, Bart and Milhouse try to imitate a stunt they saw on an episode of \"Batman\" that guest starred Krusty the Clown. When the stunt ends badly, media watchdog groups blame Krusty, forcing the clown to make his show more safety-conscious and less fun.\n\nLisa and Homer make a bet on who won the 1948 presidential election. Lisa wins and she gets to choose the activity for Daddy-Daughter Day. Her activity is taking part in building homes for a Habitat for Humanity alongside Jimmy Carter, Bill Clinton, and George H. W. Bush, whose relationship mirrors that of the Three Stooges. While painting, Homer takes off his wedding ring (which actually is a Band-Aid with tin foil wrapped around it, as Homer's real wedding band was swallowed by a turtle) in order not to get paint on it, and Lindsay Naegle and Cookie Kwan mistakenly think Homer is a bachelor. Marge, driving by with Maggie, sees Homer appearing to flirt with the women by flexing his muscles (though he is actually acting out Marge going into labor with Bart). Marge worries that Homer has lost interest in her, so she decides to get liposuction, on the advice of Manjula. Unfortunately, a mix-up causes her to get breast implants, which were intended for one of Mayor Quimby's female interns. The doctor says that Marge must wait for 48 hours before the implants can be removed.\n\nMeanwhile, Bart and Milhouse watch an episode of \"Batman\", featuring Krusty as a villain named Clownface, who threatens Batman and Robin with a rapidly spinning carousel of death. Bart and Milhouse like the idea, inspiring them to recreate the stunt, with Bart putting Milhouse on a merry-go-round in school. Otto uses the bus to kick-start the merry-go-round, spinning it at an incredible speed. The bolts give way and the merry-go-round goes flying through the air, knocking over the school flag. Milhouse vomits on the flag while Iwo Jima veterans are visiting the school. As Principal Skinner catches Bart for it, Bart confessed that he and Milhouse saw Krusty do the stunt on television. In response, Skinner leads a group protesting against Krusty, who is now seen as a dangerous influence to children. Krusty's show is revamped to exclude anything considered dangerous and likely to be imitated by impressionable viewers (to the point that Krusty's monkey sidekick, Mr. Teeny, has to be sent back to the wild).\n\nAfter coming home from her surgery, Marge realizes that her breasts are making her life difficult in doing even the simplest tasks. Marge tries to hide her breasts from her family, but Homer and the children find out Marge's secret after a few short hours. Marge and her family go out for dinner to the local Italian restaurant. Luigi, who had just rejected Ned Flanders, immediately admits the Simpson family. Kiki Highsmith, a trade show executive, approaches Marge and offers her a modeling job. Marge accepts and initially enjoys the experience, but is soon plagued by backaches and many men in Springfield sexually harassing her.\n\nAt the Springfield Shoe Expo, Marge is further humiliated and objectified by lustful men while promoting shoe horns. At the same time, Bart helps Krusty to win back his popularity, using Milhouse and Stampy, Bart's pet elephant, in a stunt. The stunt quickly goes out of control when Stampy stuffs both Milhouse and Bart in his mouth. Homer tries to save them, but also gets stuffed into Stampy's mouth. Krusty forgets the word that was supposed to make Stampy submit and lie down. The police decide to shoot at Stampy, which would endanger Homer, Bart and Milhouse. Marge appears on the scene, and after unsuccessfully trying to dissuade the police shooting (as Chief Wiggum claims that they do not negotiate with elephants), distracts the police by flashing her breasts to the assembled crowd. Krusty, still despised by residents of Springfield, saves the day when he remembers Stampy's safety word \"Magumbo\" after accidentally saying it while ogling Marge's breasts. Stampy releases Bart, Milhouse, and Homer, and Krusty is hailed as a hero and his popularity is restored with the town (though the story of how Krusty saved the kids is relegated to only a paragraph in the local paper while the story of Marge flashing the crowd at the shoe expo received 26 pages \"with\" photos). In the end, Marge has the implants removed.\n\n\"Large Marge\" was written by Ian Maxtone-Graham and directed by Jim Reardon as part of the fourteenth season of \"The Simpsons\" (2002–03). In an Associated Press news report about the episode, it was cited as satirizing \"plastic surgery and images of beauty in popular culture.\" Actors Adam West and Burt Ward, who starred in the television series \"Batman\" as Batman and Robin, respectively, guest starred in \"Large Marge\" as those characters. Junkanoo band Baha Men, known for their single \"Who Let the Dogs Out?\", recorded a parody of that song for this episode titled \"Who Let Her Jugs Out?\". It plays over the closing credits.\n\nThe episode originally aired on the Fox network in the United States on November 24, 2002. On February 7, 2006, \"Large Marge\" was released in the United States on a DVD collection titled \"The Simpsons Kiss and Tell: The Story of Their Love\", along with the season nine episode \"Natural Born Kissers\", the season fourteen episode \"Three Gays of the Condo\", and the season fifteen episode \"The Way We Weren't\". All four episodes revolve around the romance between Homer and Marge. \n\nOn December 6, 2011, \"Large Marge\" was released on Blu-ray and DVD as part of the box set \"The Simpsons – The Complete Fourteenth Season\". Staff members Al Jean, Ian Maxtone-Graham, Matt Selman, Tom Gammill, Matt Warburton, David Silverman, and Mike B. Anderson, as well as cast member Nancy Cartwright, participated in the DVD audio commentary for the episode. Deleted scenes from the episode were also included in the box set.\n\nReviews from television critics about this episode have been mixed since the release of the \"Kiss and Tell\" DVD. \n\nIGN's Jeff Otto commented that while he thought \"Natural Born Kissers\" was the only \"great\" episode in the compilation, \"All four episodes are good \"Simpsons\" episodes.\" He added: \"I can't figure why, if Fox was going to put together a set of this theme, they couldn't have included some of the more classic episodes about Marge and Homer's romance. Still, even the lesser Simpsons episodes are entertaining, so you could certainly do worse.\" \n\nA writer for HorrorNews.net called it one of the highlights of the season, and Aaron Peck of High-Def Digest described it as \"memorable\". \n\nDVD Movie Guide's Colin Jacobson commented that though \"the plot of 'Large' screams 'high concept', it actually works pretty well. It uses the silliness attached to Marge's chest to good comic effect, and the secondary plot with Bart and Krusty ties into things in a fun manner. It presents a lot of funny bits and turns into a strong episode. It's also hard to knock a show that reunites the voices of Adam West and Burt Ward.\"\n\nWhile reviewing the fourteenth season of \"The Simpsons\", Victor Valdivia of DVD Verdict wrote: \"To be sure, there are some real clinkers this season. Both 'Large Marge' and 'Strong Arm of the Ma' prove that writing good episodes about Marge seem to be out of the question by this point. [...] By normal TV standards these are not unwatchable, but by \"Simpsons\" standards, these are the episodes you probably won't watch over and over again.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2011403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011403", "title": "Valsequillo de Gran Canaria", "text": "Valsequillo de Gran Canaria\n\nValsequillo de Gran Canaria is a town and a municipality in the eastern part of the island of Gran Canaria in the Province of Las Palmas in the Canary Islands. Its population is 9,170 (2013), and the area is 39.15 km².\n\nValsequillo is situated in the mountains, 5 km west of Telde and 16 km southwest of Las Palmas.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2011408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011408", "title": "John Tembo", "text": "John Tembo\n\nJohn Zenus Ungapake Tembo (born September 14, 1932) is a Malawian politician who served for years as President of the Malawi Congress Party (MCP). Tembo comes from the Dedza District in central Malawi, and he is a teacher by profession. Beginning in the 1960s he was an important politician in Malawi, and he was a key figure in the regime of Hastings Banda (1964–1994). He has been variously described as \"physically slight, ascetic, fastidious\" and \"cunning\". He was replaced as President of the MCP in August 2013.\n\nTembo was born on September 14, 1932 in Dedza District, Central Region. His father, Zenus Ungapake Tembo, was a minister of the Church of Central African Presbyterian (CCAP). He attended several primary schools before graduating to Blantyre Secondary School. He later went to study at the University of Roma (also known as Pius XII College) in Lesotho, graduating in 1958 with a Bachelor of Arts in political philosophy. He had a brief stint as a teacher at Dedza Secondary School and later taught for two years at Robert Blake Secondary School in the central region district of Dowa in 1958.\n\nIn 1960, two years after Dr. Banda's arrival in the country from Ghana to lead the independence struggle from the British colonial rule, Tembo was invited to take up a parliamentary seat in Dedza South constituency.\n\nTembo was elected to the legislative assembly of Nyasaland in 1961, three years before the country gained its independence and became the Republic of Malawi. He was the second Minister of Finance in Malawi after independence, succeeding Henry Phillips (later Sir Henry Phillips) in a post for which the intended candidate had been Dunduzu Chisiza (Chisiza died in 1962 in a car crash). John Tembo was the only cabinet member not to resign in the notorious Cabinet Crisis of 1964, after which most of the President's closest lieutenants, their opposition to his policies thwarted, fled the country. (Chinua Achebe in \"A Man of the People\" admits having used a real situation gleaned from the Hansards of a certain African country to portray his main character 'Chief Nanga', the heckler in parliament who hounded out the 'offensive minister' who had just resigned.)\n\nHe was prone to taking some unilateral decisions, e.g. the '1974 Youth Week Inauguration' venue saga when Tembo decided, without Banda's permission, to stage the event in Lilongwe to coincide with the 'New Capital City' inauguration gala Banda had yet to sanction. Banda found this offensive and in the presence of Gwanda Chakuamba dressed down Tembo before instructing Chakuamba to rearrange, at a very high cost to the government, the Youth Week inauguration back in Blantyre. Despite Cecilia Kadzamira's intervention, Banda proceeded to remove John Tembo from the National Celebrations Council and placed him into a minor post of Reserve Bank Governor and the ceremonial Chairman of the University Council. The Banda-Tembo relationship soured and it became an uphill struggle, with Cecilia's active support, for Tembo to regain his position of prominence. His role as the Chichewa interpreter to Banda was engineered so that John Tembo stayed in Banda's presence. Cecilia engineered the removal as interpreter and subsequent demise in disgrace of the eloquent Chichewa speaking John Msonthi; whereupon on Msonthi's burial day a gun battle ensued between the Msonthi and Tembo/ Kadzamira clans. And when John Tembo suggested, during one of Dr. Banda's speech on ubiquitous and 'invisible enemies', that ministers and those around the President should carry automatic weapons to 'defend' Dr. Banda, John Tembo was swiftly rapped on the wrist and a temporary replacement interpreter was arranged.\nWhen Malawi became a republic in 1966 after attaining independence in 1964, Tembo was appointed as Minister of Finance. In 1971, at the Dowa MCP Convention, Tembo was the 'primary' sponsor (while another two seconded) for Banda becoming the 'Life President' of Malawi. Banda rewarded him with postgraduate studies in central banking in Britain and France. Later he was to use the knowledge as Governor of the Reserve Bank of Malawi, a post he held for 13 years.\n\nAs confidante to the President, Tembo was used as Dr. Banda's Machiavellian bludgeon during the later part of Dr. Banda's 30-year tyrannical rule. Tembo came to personify the negatives that Dr. Banda did. The greater majority in Malawi came to hate John Tembo for the excesses that ideally should have been aimed at Dr. Banda. While most people became resigned to the 'life presidency' issue (wait until the old man departs), a determination, especially after the Mwanza Assassination, emerged that Tembo would 'never rule' Malawi. Yet, in a move demonstrating Banda embraced 'democracy' much earlier than portrayed, Banda released John Tembo from his duties as Governor of the Reserve Bank and sent him on a two-year sabbatical to the US Congress to study the workings of democracy. When John Tembo returned in 1989, Banda appointed him as Minister without Portfolio much to the furore and greater agitation for multiparty democracy.\n\nWith Banda's health failing Cecilia Tamanda Kadzamira turned more to Tembo to do her low-key political bidding. In turn, John Tembo unleashed onto Malawians what Banda was to later call the 'parallel MCP'. Sections of the Secret Service, Malawi Young Pioneers and other agencies, loyal to John Tembo, systematically incarcerated and/or summarily killed any vocal opposition to his rise to power while the educated, especially those without links to John Tembo's 'Dedza-Ntakataka Connection' were dispatched into exile. Yet, the Machiavelli Dr. Banda did not fully relinquish power. Given a choice between Tembo and Gwanda Chakuamba, Banda anointed Chakuamba as his running mate in Malawi's first multiparty elections, held on 17 May 1994.\n\nIn January 1995, some months after Banda lost the election to Bakili Muluzi of the United Democratic Front (UDF), Tembo and \"Mama\" were put on trial for the murder of the four prominent Malawi politicians in 1983 (the so-called Mwanza trial). While there was little doubt that the four politicians had met their violent end (also allegedly in a \"car crash\") at the hands of state security forces, there was no direct evidence linking the accused to the murders and they were acquitted. After Banda's death in 1997, Tembo attempted to take over the presidency of the Malawi Congress Party from Chakuamba and defied a high court injunction preventing him from holding a convention to do so. Because the high court ruled him in contempt, he was expelled from the legislative assembly, although he successfully challenged the expulsion. Using the parallel MCP mechanisms, John Tembo finally wrested control of the MCP from Gwanda Chakuamba.\n\nAs the candidate of the MCP, Tembo officially placed second, with 27% of the vote, in the presidential election held on May 20, 2004, behind the winner, UDF candidate Bingu wa Mutharika, and ahead of Chakuamba, who ran as the candidate of the Mgwirizano Coalition.\n\nOn August 28, 2007, Tembo rejected an appeal from Chakuamba for Tembo to become the running mate of Muluzi, the UDF's candidate, in the 2009 election. Tembo said that the MCP would have its own campaign and would not participate in a coalition.\n\nOn November 1, 2008, Tembo was unanimously elected as the MCP's 2009 presidential candidate at the MCP National Convention held at the Natural Resources College in Lilongwe. Tembo was to face President Mutharika, who was running for a second term as the candidate of the newly formed Democratic Progressive Party (DPP).\n\nTembo was considered the main opposition candidate, and the MCP formed an electoral alliance with Muluzi and the UDF prior to the election; the old foes came together with the goal of defeating Mutharika, their mutual enemy. Tembo's vice-presidential candidate was Brown Mpinganjira of the UDF. Observing that the DPP had never participated in an election (it was founded in 2005), Tembo argued that he and the MCP had the experience to govern the country properly: \"I belong to the past, I belong to the present and I also belong to the future.\"\n\nObservers expected a close election between the two strongest candidates, Mutharika and Tembo. While Tembo enjoyed the united backing of the country's two most established and powerful parties—the MCP and the UDF—he faced an incumbent President who had presided over strong economic growth of 8%, and the outcome was considered uncertain.\n\nUltimately, Mutharika won an overwhelming victory in the election, according to official results, and Tembo alleged fraud. Afterwards, some in the MCP called for the party to recognize Mutharika's victory and for Tembo to resign as MCP President. Tembo refused and vowed to legally challenge the results. He was re-elected as the MP for Dedza South in the concurrent parliamentary election. The MCP's strength in parliament was seriously reduced in the election, as it retained only 25 MPs, while Mutharika's DPP secured a large majority of seats; nevertheless, the MCP remained the second largest party in the National Assembly. When Tembo was sworn in again as an MP on June 2, 2009, he vowed that he would continue as Leader of the Opposition during the 2009–2014 parliamentary term, despite apparently substantial dissent within the MCP.\n\nParliament initially refused to recognize Tembo as Leader of the Opposition, but in late August 2009 the High Court ordered it to do so on an interim basis.\n\nAs MCP President, Tembo opposed the government's move to change the national flag in mid-2010, arguing that the government was \"playing with serious matters of the state and the constitution put up by our forefathers.\"\n\nAt a party convention held in August 2013, delegates overwhelmingly opposed, through a voice vote, changing the MCP's constitution to allow Tembo to stand for a third term as MCP President. Lazarus Chakwera was then elected to succeed Tembo on 10 August 2013. Handing over the party leadership to Chakwera on 11 August, Tembo urged party members to unite behind his successor: \"He is the only hope MCP and Malawi has to restore the development we have been dreaming about\". Saying that he intended to retire from politics, Tembo reflected on his age: \"Yes, I am old. Most of my friends died. But everyone's life is in God's hands.\" Later in the month, Tembo said that he intended to spend his retirement \"reading, writing, and farming\", although for the time being he continued to serve as an MP and as Leader of the Opposition. He denied that the MCP delegates had been opposing him when they refused to change the party constitution, saying that he had previously expressed his wish to retire and that the delegates had therefore simply honored his wishes.\n\nAfter a parliamentary career dating back more than 50 years, Tembo confirmed on 22 September 2013 that he would not stand for re-election as the MP for Dezda South in the 2014 parliamentary election.\n\nHe was married to Ruth Tembo, who predeceased him. He is the father of Chimwemwe Dudu, John Jr, Thabo Themba, and Dalitso.\n"}
{"id": "2011409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011409", "title": "Western Wisconsin Derecho", "text": "Western Wisconsin Derecho\n\nThe Western Wisconsin Derecho was a derecho, or severe weather system, that occurred through several counties of Western Wisconsin on July 15, 1980. It caused $240 million in damage (1980 dollars) -- the largest storm damage total in Wisconsin history to that point. Three people were killed. To this day, the storm is still referred to as The July 15th Storm, July 15th, 1980, or simply The Storm.\n\nThe storm developed during the devastating heat wave of 1980. Eight of the previous nine days in the Twin Cities had highs above 90 °F (32 °C). The high on 11 July was 100 °F (38 °C). On 14 July, the day before the storm, the high was 99 °F (37 °C); the overnight low was a sticky 79 °F (26 °C).\n\nAt 2 p.m. on the afternoon of July 15, a weak area of low pressure was stationed over eastern South Dakota, adjacent to a warm front that extended southeast through southern Minnesota into eastern Iowa. Ahead (north) of the warm front was an area of hot, dry air: the high temperature for the day at Eau Claire was 93 °F (34 °C) and 93 °F (34 °C) in the Twin Cities. South of the front was very humid, hot air: Cedar Rapids, Iowa had a high temperature of 98 °F (37 °C).\n\nAs the afternoon progressed, the warm front moved into the drier air to the north, pulling with it the moist air over the dry air. Regional meteorologists were aware of the potential for thunderstorms because of the low pressure system and the intense heat and moisture. The storm system formed in eastern Minnesota during the early evening of July 15, when a boater was killed on Prior Lake. Winds were estimated at 110 mph. Storm damage in Minnesota approached $43 million.\n\nEntering Wisconsin around 7:30 p.m., the storm devastated approximately 4,800 square miles of St Croix, Pierce, Dunn, Eau Claire, Chippewa, and Clark counties; the band of damage was more than 40 miles wide. The greatest destruction occurred from Menomonie through Eau Claire. A maximum wind speed of 112 mph (180 km/h) was recorded at the Chippewa Valley Regional Airport at 8:48 p.m., blowing away the airport's anemometer; 100 mph wind was recorded in the city of Eau Claire. At 9:39 p.m., WEAU-TV broadcast an alert from the National Weather Service regarding one of several tornado warnings that evening for Eau Claire County; moments later, the station lost power and went off-the-air. Seven of the city's eight radio stations were still off-the-air the next morning. Up to 97 percent of Northern States Power customers in Eau Claire were left without power following the storm. After seven days, 20,000 customers still had no power.\n\nBy 10 p.m., with the most intense part of the storm winding down, the area of low pressure was directly over western Wisconsin. Behind the low, air had cooled considerably, with the Twin Cities reporting temperatures in the upper 60s (°F). In addition to being tremendously destructive, the storm was considerably long-lived. The same system produced severe derechos through Illinois and Michigan overnight and into the following day. The system was estimated to have caused $650M ($1.9B in 2016 dollars) in damage across the four states.\n\nAlthough much of the storm's damage was caused by straight-line winds (see downburst), several tornadoes were reported.\n\nOne hard-hit area of Eau Claire was the Mill Run subdivision, at the time a part of the Town of Union, now a neighborhood on the city's north side. Many homes in the neighborhood were destroyed. Across US-12 from Mill Run are the headquarters of the home improvement retailer Menards, which also sustained major damage. Six residents of the Stardust Estates mobile home court were injured in the storm.\n\nA 25-year-old Dunn County woman was killed when a refrigerator in her mobile home fell on her during the storm.\n\nFarm property was hit very hard, with Dunn County receiving the worst damage. It was estimated that more than $27M of damage was done just to farm buildings in that county, and $8M in crops. More than 10,000 farms were initially without power after the storm. Wisconsin National Guard and the DNR delivered water to farms. There were reports of cattle that had gone without water for 36 hours.\n\nNumerous concrete stave silos on the small Wisconsin dairy farms were blown in half with only the bottom half showing.\n\nIt also caused the bankruptcy of the Martel Mutual Fire Insurance Company, which inexplicably did not have re-insurance coverage. Thus, many farmers had to pay hundreds or thousands of dollars in assessments to cover the final losses of the insurance company.\n\nFour counties affected by the storm were declared federal disaster areas on 24 July by President Jimmy Carter. Approximately $3.3M of public property in Eau Claire County was damaged in the storm. The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) would have covered that entire amount in theory. But at some point that year, the rule was changed on what FEMA would cover, which amounted to only 75%. That left better than $800,000 for Wisconsin to pay. No one notified the states when the rule was changed.\n\nTheories for the change in coverage include the massive influx of Cubans into the country; the Mount St. Helens eruption of 18 May; the severe tornadoes in Grand Island, Nebraska in June; and flooding in western Pennsylvania during August. The federal government's budget was badly impacted by these and other disasters. In all, there were 22 major disaster declarations in 1980.\n\nCompounding problems for the state was that the storm occurred in an election year. Frustrated Wisconsin officials, including Governor Lee Dreyfus, were not prepared for the difficulty in dealing with the federal government during such a time.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2011411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011411", "title": "Christine Wallace", "text": "Christine Wallace\n\nChristine Wallace (born 1960) is an Australian political journalist, biographer and academic. She is currently an Australian Research Council DECRA fellow at the National Centre of Biography, Australian National University.\n\nHer publications include biographies of John Hewson (1993), Germaine Greer (1997), and Don Bradman (2004).\n\nWallace is a graduate of the Australian National University (BA, politics and history), University of Sydney (BEc) and the Australian Graduate School of Management (MBA).\n\nIn 2015, she completed her PhD (Australian National University) on political biography as political intervention.\n\nWallace was a member of the Canberra Press Gallery and worked for a wide range of print and electronic media outlets including \"The Australian\", \"The Australian Financial Review\", \"Business Review Weekly\", ABC Television, 666 ABC Canberra and the Adelaide radio station 5AA.\n\nAfter a decade of political and economic journalism, she became a full-time writer in Sydney following the 1996 Australian federal election.\n\nWallace has published three biographies.\n\n\nShe also wrote, but did not publish, an unauthorised biography of Julia Gillard when she was Prime Minister. The book was to be called \"Julia Gillard: unauthorised\", and was to be published by Allen & Unwin in 2011. It was allocated an ISBN, 978-1-74175-848-1, but never published.\n\nIn 2015, she was awarded her PhD for a thesis entitled \"The Silken Cord: Contemporaneous 20th Century Prime Ministerial Biography in Australia and Its Meaning\". It explores the idea of political biography as political intervention, through the contemporaneous political biography of twentieth century Australian politicians.\n\nIn 2017, the Australian Research Council awarded Wallace a Discovery Early Career Researcher Award (DECRA) for a post-doctoral study entitled \"The Caseys and Pat Jarrett in Washington, 1940–1942\". It will study Australian Minister Richard Gardiner 'Dick' Casey, his wife Maie Casey and their press aide Patricia 'Pat' Jarrett, who served in Washington during 1940–41.\n\nShe currently holds her DECRA fellowship at the National Centre of Biography, Australian National University.\n\nWallace is married to Michael Costello, a former senior Australian public servant.\n"}
{"id": "2011416", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011416", "title": "Itacoatiara", "text": "Itacoatiara\n\nItacoatiara is one of the 48 official neighborhoods into which the city of Niterói, Rio de Janeiro in Brazil is divided.\n\nItacoatiara beach is located about 30 minutes east of downtown Niterói by car, or one hour by bus.\n\nItacoatiara is a beach with fine golden sands and bright blue (sometimes green) water. The main beach is open to the Atlantic Ocean and is dangerous for the casual swimmer while offering ideal conditions for water sports. The left side of the beach ends with a rock face called \"Costão\", and there is a wave-sheltered small beach on the right side called \"Prainha\" (little beach), which is separated from the main beach by a big rock that serves as its shelter, and which is frequented by small children and their parents.\n\nThe place is famous for offering the ideal conditions for the practices of surfing, bodysurfing and bodyboarding during most of the year.\n\nAt Itacoatiara, the Atlantic Ocean produces fast and hollow waves, usually ranging from 3 to 6 feet, but on frequent occasions they might swell up to 4 meters (12 feet). A few times per year a huge southeast swell can produce larger waves of up to 5 meters (15 feet) but a swell that strong rarely offers acceptable surfing conditions. \n\nThere are three main beach breaks in the beach. They are named \"Costão\" (on the left side), \"Meio\" (middle) and \"Pampo\" (on the right side), each breaking differently depending on swell direction and size. Behind the limiting rock between the main beach and the small, wave-sheltered Prainha (little beach), there is a point break named \"Shock\" due to its extremely dangerous surfing conditions, with rocks protruding from the sea floor above the water level. Shock starts working on bigger swells.\n\nItacoatiara is a place especially appreciated by the climbers and offers many routes of different climbing styles. Bouldering is practiced at the square commonly called \"Pracinha\". The Serra da Tiririca State Park is also located there and was recognised by UNESCO as a World Biosphere Reserve. It offers many climbing routes of abseiling and of the following different styles: traditional climbing, sport climbing and aid climbing.\n\n"}
{"id": "2011425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011425", "title": "Corinna Harney", "text": "Corinna Harney\n\nCorinna Harney (born February 20, 1972) is an American model and actress. She was chosen as \"Playboy's\" Playmate of the Month for August 1991 and \"Playboy's\" Playmate of the Year for 1992. At age 20, she became the youngest Playmate of the Year ever at that point. Harney is sometimes credited as Corina Harney, Corinna Harney-Jones, or Corinna Harney Jones.\n\nHarney considers her start in the Entertainment industry when she took her first ballet class at 3 years old. Her first acting job was when she was in the 4th grade with Dick Van Patten for a Blue Cross-Blue Shield commercial. She had also begun doing print modeling around that same time.\n\nAfter her first appearance in Playboy, Harney was featured in a series of Playboy videos as well as appearing in minor roles in television series such as \"Nash Bridges\" and \"\" and the movie \"National Lampoon's Vegas Vacation\".\n\nAfter appearing in various roles, she and a friend produced a film called \"Pitcher and the Pin-up\". Harney has worked on or had roles in a series of projects since, these include a web-series called \"Wedded Bliss\", a film called \"The Ivory Curse\", a Sinclair Oil commercial, a movie called \"Ryder and Julina\", and an independent film called \"Sins of our Youth\" which also features Super 8 actor Joel Courtney. According to the Internet Movie Database, Harney continues to be active in acting and producing films.\n\nHarney was born in Bremerhaven, West Germany of Cherokee-Irish descent. She is the sister of Dorinda Harney. Harney spent most of her childhood life in Las Vegas, Nevada, where her father was a state trooper for the Nevada Highway Patrol. Harney graduated from Bonanza High School in Las Vegas.\n\nShe now lives in the Los Angeles Area, but she also maintains a home in Las Vegas. Harney is married and has a daughter.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2011426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011426", "title": "Enchantress (Marvel Comics)", "text": "Enchantress (Marvel Comics)\n\nEnchantress is the common primary alias of two fictional characters appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. The first of these is a powerful sorceress with the real name of Amora; she is one of Thor's greatest enemies. The second Enchantress is the young Sylvie Lushton, who was given great mystic powers by Loki when he created her as a tool for chaos. She models herself after the original Enchantress, Amora.\n\nAmora's first appearance in the Marvel Universe took place in \"Journey into Mystery\" #103 (April 1964), where she tried and failed to seduce Thor away from Jane Foster.\n\nThe second Enchantress, Sylvie, first appeared in \"Dark Reign: Young Avengers\" #1 (July 2009), where she was confronted by the Young Avengers.\n\nThe Enchantress' parentage is unknown, though it is known she was born in Asgard and has a sister by the name of Lorelei. Amora began learning magic as an apprentice of Karnilla, Queen of the Norns, but was eventually banished. She continued learning magic on her own, notably by seducing others well versed in magic and learning their secrets. In time, Amora became one of the more powerful magic-wielders in Asgard, with her magical arsenal focused on (but not limited to) charming and mind-controlling people. Her by-then well-renowned beauty did not hinder in this.\n\nIn her first appearance, she is sent by Odin to eliminate Thor's human love interest, whom Odin sees as a distraction. She also hopes to have the thunder god for herself. She is assisted by a powerful minion — Skurge, the Executioner. The Executioner loved the Enchantress, and she strings him along with her feminine wiles, using him as her muscle. She aids Loki by attempting to seduce Thor in his Don Blake identity and by sending the Executioner to kill Jane Foster, but though the Executioner traps Foster in another dimension Thor is able to bring her back by giving Skurge his hammer. When the Enchantress, angry at Skurge returning Jane, begins to turn Skurge into a tree, Skurge releases Thor from the pact in exchange for his help. Amora then tries to change Thor's hammer into a hissing serpent, but it is immune to her magic. Thor then transports the two back to Asgard.\n\nThe Enchantress and the Executioner are exiled to Earth by Odin. They become members of Baron Heinrich Zemo's original Masters of Evil, the opposite number to the Avengers, a superhero team that Thor had joined. The Enchantress hypnotizes Thor into attacking the other Avengers with her own spells and a special brew, making him believe they are enemies of humanity, but Iron Man wakes Thor from his trance by reflecting sunlight into his eyes. Thor sends the Masters to another dimension through a space warp, but two issues later, the Enchantress uses a spell to send them back to Earth. She recruits Wonder Man into the Masters of Evil after paying his bail. She also meets Immortus, who helps Zemo attack the Avengers. When this attempt fails, she turns back time to prevent it from happening, though the Masters retain their memories of this event. When Immortus begins to contact the Masters, the Enchantress prevents this from happening. She then joins in the Masters of Evil's final assault against the Avengers and breaks the Black Knight and Melter out of jail. She manages to escape in the end with the Executioner when the other two are transported to another dimension where their weapons rebound due to different scientific laws. As a member of the Masters of Evil, the Enchantress (and Executioner) repeatedly face the Avengers. She is especially affronted by the attempts of the Scarlet Witch, a mortal, to subvert her divine spells, though she is occasionally genuinely challenged by the Scarlet Witch's mutant gifts.\nWith the Executioner, she menaces Jane Foster again at Loki's behest.\n\nThe Enchantress is also notable in that she has given other superhumans their powers. For example, she used the deceased Zemo's equipment to make a henchman of his, Erik Josten, into the original Power Man, who aids her in battling the Avengers. Her illusions and traps turn the city against the Avengers, forcing them to disband and making Power Man seem like a hero. Captain America, in disguise, corrects this by obtaining a taped confession from the Enchantress and Power Man. Power Man is able to defeat him, but the Enchantress is knocked out by gas from Hawkeye's arrow. Realizing the tape is on its way to the police, the Enchantress used her spells to teleport away. The Enchantress is then recruited by the Mandarin, along with the Executioner, Swordsman, Power Man, and Living Laser for his plan for world domination. With the Executioner, she attacked the Asian sub-continent with an army of trolls, but they were defeated by Hercules and the Scarlet Witch.\n\nAmora poses as the Valkyrie and forms the Lady Liberators, which battle the male Avengers. She dupes Arkon into fighting the Avengers. Amora also uses her magics to make Samantha Parrington and later Barbara Norris into the Valkyrie. With the Executioner, she battles the Defenders and the Thing.\n\nWith the Executioner, Amora attempts to conquer Asgard with a troll army. She also served as Loki's lieutenant in his brief rule of Asgard.\n\nDuring the \"Secret Wars,\" she is placed on the villains's side, but she spurns the idea of fighting a gladiatorial game for the amusement of a higher being. She instead proposes to Thor that the two of them simply join forces, leave both heroes and villains behind, and go back home to Asgard.\n\nOn the appearance of Amora's sister Lorelei, it is established that the two sisters have something of a strained relationship, rooted in rivalry. More than a little friction is seen between the pair, not the least due to competition over which one of them would manage to seduce Thor.\n\nThe Enchantress joined the Asgardian gods and heroes in final battle against the world-ender Surtur. She establishes that she is motivated by enlightened self-interest: Surtur seeks to end the world, in which case Amora would perish.\nSoon after the Surtur War, Thor leads a number of Asgardian heroes to Hel, the realm of the death goddess Hela. The Executioner asks Thor to let him join the expedition for reasons he does not immediately reveal. In truth, he had seen the Enchantress dallying with Heimdall, and, heartbroken, Skurge wishes to lose himself in a noble cause — such as rescuing lost souls from Hela. Thor's forces accomplish their mission but need one man to guard their retreat from Hel by holding the bridge Gjallerbru. The Executioner, knowing there was no more Amora for him, chooses to be that man, giving his life so the others might flee. When Amora hears the news, to everyone's surprise, she is truly grief-stricken.\n\nAfter Skurge's death, Amora continues her regular hi-jinks, occasionally helping Asgard, occasionally opposing it. She aids Asgard against the evil Egyptian God Seth's legions.\n\nLorelei later perishes as Amora refused to give her life for her sister's. The deceased Skurge (in Valhalla) rejects the Enchantress, and Amora goes on to empower the Earthman Brute Benhurst into a short-lived new Executioner to serve as her minion in Skurge's stead. Amora becomes vexed with the Avenger Wonder Man and assists Thor and the Warriors Three in their quest to return Odin to the throne of Asgard. During this time, an attraction between Amora and Asgard's guardian Heimdall is explored. Amora even battles the powerful entity Nightmare on behalf of both of them as Heimdall was unable to protect himself at the time. She ultimately rejects Heimdall when she realizes that he wishes to be married and she does not.\n\nIn \"Acts of Vengeance,\" Amora and Skurge join forces and attack Doctor Strange, only to be bested by Clea when she flies to his aid.\n\nLater, Thor has been spurned by his father Odin, exiled to Earth and disempowered. In this vulnerable state, Thor ends up forming a willing liaison with Amora, with the two of them living out of a loft in New York City as lovers. This status quo would remain until Thor goes missing during Heroes Reborn and is presumed dead.\n\nDuring Ragnarök, Amora is present with the other Asgardian deities and dwarves when Eitri and his brothers are sealed into a tomb they had carved due to the Mjolnir mold destroying them, albeit accidentally. When Surtur's forging of new Mjolnirs creates chaos, Thor attempts to fly to the skies to discern the source, but is at once struck down by a blast from a Mjolnir duplicate of Loki's; Amora is slain by the same blast, one of the first victims of Loki during this event. Neither her magic nor her inherent durability is capable of shielding her. Heimdall falls soon afterward; Amora is not seen again except, seemingly, in one of the realms of death, unable to use her magic to assist her once-lover.\n\nAfter Ragnarök, when Thor, Asgard and the other Asgardians return, Thor is manipulated by Loki into inadvertently awakening some of Thor's enemies, among them Amora, though when she was last seen, she is the victim, falling by Loki's hands and mourned by Thor and the other Asgardians. She does not return to Asgard but instead goes to attack the world tree, Yggdrasil in order to resurrect Skurge and release him from Valhalla. Amora is ultimately thwarted after Thor, Loki, and Balder convince her that she is dishonoring his memory with her actions.\n\nShe has returned after Thor's resurrection, with Donald Blake - bitter about his separation from Thor and his non-existent past - offering the Enchantress his soul if she can make him a god again. The resulting god is a twisted abomination, with Thor defeating the Enchantress and her new god before banishing them from Asgard, leaving Blake - reduced to a living head after his body was consumed to create the god - connected to a series of dream-weaving creatures to make him dream that he is living a full life.\n\nAfter this Amora was defeated by Thor and banished to the forest in Norway. She was trapped in an Odinforce barrier and stripped of her powers. Lady Deathstrike and Typhoid Mary were on a quest to find Arkea, an intelligent gestalt microorganism capable of controlling machines and people. They found Amora and offered to help her regain her powers. In exchange they founded a new sisterhood to battle the X-Men, who were hunting Arkea and Lady Deathstrike. Arkea hacked the Odinforce spell and restored Amora's full powers. In exchange for this, Amora restored the physical form of the immortal mutant witch, Selene, and helped Arkea resurrect Madelyne Pryor. Before the Sisterhood could add more members, the X-Men attacked and killed Arkea. Amora was ambushed by the X-Man M, who defeated her in a surprise attack. However, Madelyne Pryor swore to continue the Sisterhood, which presently has Madelyne, Selene, Lady Deathstrike, Amora, and Typhoid Mary as members.\n\nDuring the \"AXIS\" storyline, Enchantress appears as a member of Magneto's unnamed supervillain group during the fight against Red Skull's Red Onslaught form. After the heroes and villains present at the battle experience a moral inversion due to the Scarlet Witch and Doctor Doom's attempt to bring out the Xavier in Onslaught backfiring, Magneto recruits Enchantress as one of his new 'Avengers' to stop the now-villainous Avengers and X-Men.\n\nFollowing the \"Secret Wars\" storyline, she has become a member of Malekith the Accursed's Dark Council. Through a spell, she takes control of the queen of the Light Elves, allowing her marriage to Malekith to happen and the conquest of their realm.\n\nDuring the \"War of the Realms\" storyline, Enchantress accompanies Malekith the Accursed in his invasion on Midgard. She and Kurse fight Ghost Rider and She-Hulk until Jane Foster slams Skidbladnir into Enchantress. In Uruguay, the Enchantress raises the dead, but Ghost Rider, Doctor Strange, and Balder ward her off.\n\nA member of the Young Masters surfaces having modeled herself on Amora the Enchantress and takes on her teammate Melter as her lover. The new Enchantress is revealed to be an adolescent who had been given powers by Loki so that he could use her in his schemes. However, she truly believes that she is an Asgardian that had been exiled from Asgard and sent to live in New York where she joined the Young Masters. She admits to the first team of Young Avengers that she is Sylvie Lushton from Broxton, Oklahoma, who suddenly gained magic powers. Sylvie seems to have powers and abilities similar to those of the original Enchantress, despite looking far younger, and speaking with a noticeable lisp. Sylvie has a strong desire to become a Young Avenger and even used her magic to change her teammates' minds so that they would want her on the team as well.\n\nAfter a series of try-outs, Sylvie is initially accepted as a new addition to the Young Avengers. However, as a plan to end Sylvie's future with the Young Avengers, her teammates Big Zero and Egghead download the results of an analysis they had run on her into the Vision's cybernetic mind. The analysis verifies that Sylvie is an unwitting trap for the Young Avengers' magical defense systems created by Loki and Wiccan immediately has her banned from the Young Avengers' hideout. A distraught and confused Sylvie then asks her teammates to avenge her, eventually resulting in a confrontation between the two teams and Norman Osborn's team of Dark Avengers. During the conflict, Wiccan reveals to her that she was given magical powers by Loki. However, he states that the team still wants her, but that her hasty banning was only to quickly remove her from the premises so that he could alter the magical defenses to compensate for Loki's traps. Convinced by Wiccan that being an Avenger is about who one chooses to be despite one's origins, she, Coat of Arms, and Wiccan manage to magically remove the Sentry from the battlefield and turn the tide of the fight against the Young Masters and the Dark Avengers. Melter requests a quick escape so that they can have more time to decide what they will choose to do as either superheroes or supervillains, and Sylvie complies, teleporting the Young Masters away.\n\nEnchantress eventually returns, this time in the employ of Jeremy Briggs. She attempts to assist Jeremy in his goal of stripping Earth's superhumans of their powers, but abandons him after being injured by White Tiger. She later battles the Fearless Defenders as a hired enforcer of Caroline le Fey, but is defeated.\n\nIn the \"Avengers Undercover\" series, Enchantress was with the Young Masters when they are seen as members of the Shadow Council's Masters of Evil where the Young Masters make their headquarters in Constrictor's Snakepit.\n\nIn the \"All-New, All-Different Marvel,\" Enchantress joins up with Hood's incarnation of the Illuminati. It is later revealed that the current Enchantress of the new Illuminati is actually Sylvie with the original \"Enchantress\" being an assumed name.\n\nThe Enchantress is a member of the race of superhumans known as Asgardians, and as such possesses superhuman strength, speed, stamina, and durability but prefers to avoid physical conflicts. She possesses an innate capacity to manipulate ambient magical energy, honed through practice for a variety of effects, including projecting magical power bolts, interdimensional teleportation of multiple Asgardians and non-Asgardians, protective energy shields, illusions, levitation, conjuring, transmutation (even of Asgardians), telekinesis, time-disruption, mind switching, and mind control. She has used her sorcery to enhance her natural beauty and allure, and to enchant her lips so that by kissing virtually any man she can make him her slave for about a week, unless she renews the treatment. She can also use her magic to heal any of her injuries rapidly, and possesses limited mystical senses. She can also absorb an opponent's life force to temporarily increase her own powers. A prolonged absence from Asgard tends to diminish her powers although they never fade completely. The Enchantress has been described as one of the most powerful sorceresses in Asgard, second only to Karnilla, although their every direct confrontation has ended in a stalemate until interrupted. However, Amora's sister Lorelei was later also enhanced beyond her own abilities. The Enchantress has a gifted intellect, and possesses extensive knowledge of Asgardian mystic and amatory arts. On occasion, the Enchantress employs various mystical artifacts, potions, and power objects, such as the crystalline gem in which she entrapped Brunnhilde the Valkyrie's soul, and the potion she used to increase her hypnotic power over Thor in \"Avengers\" #7. It has been shown that Enchantress is unable to access her spells when her hands are bound and her mouth is gagged.\n\nInitially unbeknownst to her, Enchantress II's powers are given to her by Loki. Wiccan states that she may not fully understand how powerful she truly is. Her powers and abilities appear similar to those of the original Enchantress. She is able to teleport many people instantly, maintain a secret fortress with her magic, and transform objects and people into whatever she desires, such as turning several henchmen into frogs. She also demonstrated power enough to stop both the Young Avengers and Young Masters during their battle and separate them.\n\nUnlike many of Marvel's Asgardians, Amora is not actually based on a goddess from Norse mythology. In the limited series \"Thor: Ages of Thunder\" the Enchantress is said to have been referred to by many names throughout history including; Freyja, Gefn and Iduna, and is linked to many of the myths associated with these goddesses (i.e. as keeper of the golden apples). However, these stories were set during previous cycles of Ragnarok and characters based on some of these goddesses (Freya and Idunn) exist separately in the current Marvel Universe.\n\nAn alternate version of Amora the Enchantress appears in the Heroes Reborn universe. She approaches the Scarlet Witch with the revelation that she was her daughter. This was a ruse as she wanted to use Wanda in Loki's plans to defeat the Avengers.\n\nAn Earth-2149 Amora the Enchantress becomes a zombie in \"Marvel Zombies vs. The Army of Darkness\" as part of Marvel Zombies miniseries. She is imprisoned in the castle of Dr. Doom so that she does not contaminate the people. She masks her true decayed appearance with magic and portrays herself as a non-zombie to attract the attention of Ash so that she can be freed. Upon her release, she infects Dazzler—who was trying to show Ash what was going on—by biting off her finger. Doctor Doom, understanding Dazzler and Enchantress were beyond hope, kills them both.\n\nIn the pages of \"Old Man Logan\", a flashback by the elderly Logan showed that Enchantress was among the villains who came together to take over the world. When in Manhattan, Enchantress fought She-Hulk, Daredevil, and Moon Knight. After Punisher killed Electro, Enchantress casts a spell that caused the sounds to be amplified enough for Daredevil's senses to go into overload enough for his head to explode.\n\nIn an alternate future where Thor conquers Earth seemingly for its own good, Amora the Enchantress marries Thor and they produce a child named Magni. This Enchantress and the entire future are neutralized when Thor realizes he has been acting without honor and travels back in time to warn his past self.\n\nIn the Ultimate Marvel universe, Amora appeared in \"New Ultimates\" #2 aiding Loki and a team of Asgardians who attempted to take down the New Ultimates. She seemingly has the power of persuasion to make people do whatever she wants. She convinces Valkyrie, Carol Danvers, and Zarda to betray the Ultimates. They win the fight against them, but later the remaining Ultimates return to fight them again. They manage to free them from Amora's spell by having Hawkeye shoot an arrow at Amora, almost killing her and breaking her concentration on the spell. Amora was angry at Loki for putting her in that position and decided to leave. Before she left, she warned him that now that Valkyrie died during the fight, Thor would have his revenge on him.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2011429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011429", "title": "Wafangdian", "text": "Wafangdian\n\nWafangdian (), formerly Fuhsien (Fuxian) or Fu County (), is one of the two \"northern county-level cities\", the other being Zhuanghe, under the administration of Dalian, located in the south of Liaoning province, China. The city is famous for its ball bearing industry. Wafangdian Bearing Factory is the largest bearing manufacturer in Asia and was initially built by the Japanese during World War II. Its area is and its permanent population is 942,197, compared to 1,024,876 registered with hukou permits. The city borders the prefecture-level city of Yingkou to the northeast.\n\nWafangdian City is located in the southwest of the Liaodong Peninsula, with a total area of and a population of around 1.02 million. There are rich mines here. Wafangdian is a newly developed city of diamond in the East and its deposits of diamond account for 54% of the national proven diamond deposits. The deposits of the limestone reach over 400,000,000 cubic metres. Wafangdian is famous for bearings and apples in China. Wafangdian has solid industry base, fast—developing agriculture, convenient transportation and telecommunications.\n\nWafangdian has a four-season, monsoon-influenced, humid continental climate (Köppen \"Dwa\"), with long, cold, windy but dry winters, and humid and very warm summers. The area experiences a seasonal delay due to the influence of the nearby ocean, which also helps temper the summers. In winter, as the Liaodong Bay is typically frozen north of the urban area of Dalian, the moderating effects of that body of water are minimised, as the Siberian high often causes winds to blow from the northwest: the monthly daily average temperature in January is , as compared to in downtown Dalian. For Wafangdian, the same figure in July is . The annual mean temperature is . Close to half of the annual precipitation falls in July and August alone. The frost-free period is 165−185 days per annum.\n\nThere are 11 subdistricts, 13 towns, 6 townships, and 2 ethnic townships under the city's administration:\n\nWafangdian's basic industry is industry, agriculture, fishing and mining. Bearing industry is the main income for the citizen. Nearly 50% population engage in the bearing business. It is called the \"bearing capital\" of China, more than 400 bearing factories in this city, including the Chinese No. 1 brand \"ZWZ\". Wafangdian also produces apple and other fruits. Its fishing industry prospers in the Bohai Sea. It is also noted for producing diamonds.\n\nWafangdian is also quickly industrialized. China's largest bearing company(ZWZ), established in 1938, is also located here. Wafangdian is also noted for the Changxing Island Seaport Industrial Area and Hongyanhe Nuclear Power Station.\n\nFor its sightseeing locations, there is Laomao Mountain, located in the eastern part, on the border with Pulandian City.\n\nWafangdian has 461 kilometres of coast line and the annual aquatic output is over 250,000 tons including sea cucumber, prawn, clam, crab, mullet, Spanish mackerel, jellyfish, scallop, abalone and mantis-shrimp etc. The following thirteen towns and communes belong to this area: Changxingdao, Jiaoliudao, Donggang, Fuzhouwan, Paotai, Xianyuwan, Yongning, Xiyang, Tuoshan and Santai etc.\n\nWafangdian has rich agriculture and native products. The total export value exceeds RMB 1 billion yuan in 1999. The main products include meat-chick, bee-honey, peanut, dried-gourd, burdock, horseradish, red-bean and other products. The products are mainly produced and processed in the following 14 towns: Fuzhoucheng Town, Laohutun Town, Paotai Town, Yong-ning Town, etc..\n\nWafangdian has a solid industry base with complete product kinds. There are many industries such as bearings, parts for auto and the agriculture machinery, castings, machinery process, foodstuff, textile and garment, etc.. The following towns and communes include this subarea: Yongning, Laohutun, Yandian, and the Subdistricts of Zhuhua, etc..\n\nWafangdian has rich resources in fruit. The total output reached over 300,000 tons in 1999, The main fruits are as following: apple, pear, plum, peach, strawchew, apricot and grape, etc.. Thirteen towns and communes belong to this subarea: wanjialing, Songshu Tucheng, and Gangdian Subdistrict, etc..\n\nWafangdian has beautiful beach, sand, scenic spots and natural warm spring. All this consists good conditions for tour here. The following places are satisfied for tourism service, they are Changxingdiao Town, Liguan Town, Xutun Town, Xianyuwan Town and Tuoshan Commune, etc.\n\nWafangdian Economic Development Subarea is located in the south-west of Wafangdian. It's two kilometres from the centre of the city. The planned area of the Economic Development Zone is including the Hi-tech Garden, Industry Process Area, Storage and Transportation Area, Living Area and the Service Area and also there is the green area. The roads have been built now and the \"five-through and one flat\" engineering will be finished soon.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2011430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011430", "title": "Rich Rosen", "text": "Rich Rosen\n\nRich Rosen (born May 13, 1956) is a software developer and an author on the subject of web development, who gained notoriety as an early high-volume contributor to Usenet newsgroups.\n\nRosen grew up in Forest Hills, Queens, New York. He attended Cornell University and later Queens College, where he received a bachelor's degree in computer science. He later received his master's degree in the same subject from Stevens Institute of Technology in Hoboken, New Jersey, while working at Bell Labs and later at Bellcore.\n\nWhile at Bell Labs and Bellcore (now known as Telcordia Technologies) during the 1980s, Rosen was a lead engineer on the team that beta-tested IBM's then brand-new DB2 relational database management system, which would become one of the first commercially available relational database systems on the market. He also developed one of the earliest online bulletin board systems used to keep telephone operating companies informed about Bell System software standards.\n\nHe also acquired a reputation there as a high-volume poster to Usenet newsgroups. The volume of Usenet postings he produced led to rumors that many people were actually using his account, or that he was an AI program produced by Bell Labs to increase the amount of Usenet traffic and thus augment AT&T's long distance telephone revenues. Weekly statistics collected during his heyday often showed that he, by himself, was responsible for more than 2% of the entire volume of Usenet postings. The phrase \"\"We are all Rich Rosen\"\" was coined during this period and persisted as a Usenet catchphrase for a number of years.\n\nRosen posted in a number of newsgroups on a variety of topics, most particularly music and religion. Among his contributions:\n\nHe was known for participating in (some would say \"inciting\") numerous flame wars with other Usenet contributors, including the notorious Brahms Gang, a pair of equally loquacious mathematics graduate students from Berkeley (Gene W. Smith and Matthew P. Wiener) who posted from a server named codice_1. His verbal battles with the Brahms Gang in particular were sometimes referred to as \"The War of the Rosens\". He was also known for his variety of frequently-changing .signature files, including:\n\n\nThe volume and content of Rosen's postings evoked strong reactions in both advocates and detractors. People either praised him for his postings or denounced him as a threat to the future of Usenet.\n\n\nRosen left Bellcore in 1989, but continued to post occasionally to Usenet from various outside accounts. He was one of the early members of the Panix user community in New York through the mid-1990s. He hosted his own popular \"Monty Python home page\" that was cited by both Lycos and the Global Network Navigator.\n\nDuring the latter part of the 1990s, Rosen worked at Pencom Web Works with Leon Shklar, with whom he would later collaborate on \"Web Application Architecture: Principles, Protocols, and Practices\", a widely used textbook for senior and graduate level college courses in Web application development.\n\nToday, Rosen lives once again in New Jersey with his wife, Celia. He is \"retired\" from posting to Usenet, but now has his own blog to post to. He still writes on the subject of web application development, including articles for various online and print journals, while also working with Leon Shklar on a second edition of their Web Application Architecture book. In addition, he recently contributed material to the fourth edition of \"Mac OS X for Unix Geeks\" which was published in the fall of 2008. He continues to record his own music, some of which is accessible on his web site.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2011431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011431", "title": "List of Parliamentary constituencies in Nottinghamshire", "text": "List of Parliamentary constituencies in Nottinghamshire\n\nThe ceremonial county of Nottinghamshire, \n(which includes the unitary authority of \nNottingham),\nis divided into 11 Parliamentary constituencies\n- three Borough constituencies and eight County constituencies.\n\nThe Boundary Commission for England submitted their final proposals in respect of the Sixth Periodic Review of Westminster Constituencies (the 2018 review) in September 2018. Although the proposals were immediately laid before Parliament they were not brought forward by the Government for approval. Accordingly, they did not come into effect for the 2019 election which took place on 12 December 2019, and which was contested using the constituency boundaries in place since 2010.\n\nUnder the terms of the Parliamentary Voting System and Constituencies Act 2011, the Sixth Review was based on reducing the total number of MPs from 650 to 600 and a strict electoral parity requirement that the electorate of all constituencies should be within a range of 5% either side of the electoral quota.\n\nOn 24 March 2020, the Minister of State for the Cabinet Office, Chloe Smith, issued a written statement to Parliament setting out the Government's thinking with regard to parliamentary boundaries. They propose to bring forward primary legislation to remove the statutory obligation to implement the 2018 Boundary Review recommendations, as well as set the framework for future boundary reviews in time for the next review which is due to begin in early 2021 and report no later than October 2023. It is proposed that the number of constituencies now remains at the current level of 650, rather than being reduced to 600, while retaining the requirement that the electorate should be no more than +/- 5% from the electoral quota.\n\n\"Primary data source:\" House of Commons research briefing - General election results from 1918 to 2019\n\nThe number of votes cast for each political party who fielded candidates in constituencies comprising Nottinghamshire in the 2019 general election were as follows:\n\n1974 & 1979 - Liberal Party; 1983 & 1987 - SDP-Liberal Alliance\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki> Included in Other\n\nA cell marked → (with a different colour background to the preceding cell) indicates that the previous MP continued to sit under a new party name.\n\n"}
{"id": "2011434", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011434", "title": "Hawaii Preparatory Academy", "text": "Hawaii Preparatory Academy\n\nHawaii Preparatory Academy (also known as HPA) is a coeducational, private, international boarding school in Kamuela, Hawaii, providing K-12 education. The school is one of the most expensive in the state, with annual tuition for the upper school of $27,500.\n\nThe school hosts many noteworthy science-related educational programs for the benefit of its students, such as Turtle Tagging with NOAA and The Energy Lab (a partnership with Stanford University). The school is also the host of the TED organization's TEDxYouth@HPA event.\n\nFounded in 1949 by The Right Reverend Harry S. Kennedy, Episcopal Bishop of Honolulu, the school came of age under the leadership of James Monroe Taylor II, Headmaster from 1954-1974. Originally the school was located on the grounds of St. James Episcopal Church in Kamuela in buildings that were built as barracks for the United States Marines during World War II.\n\nCurrently the high school features four dormitories: Perry-Fiske Hall, Carter Hall, Robertson Hall, and Atherton House. \n\nWhile the town is known as \"Waimea\", because there are multiple locations in Hawaii with that name, the term \"Kamuela\" is used by the USPS to distinguish it from those other locations.\n\nHPA is now divided into a lower school, middle school and upper school. The lower and middle school together compose one campus in the ranch region of the Big Island of Hawaii. The upper school is located at the foot of the Kohala Mountains. The school is accredited by the National Association for Independent Schools (NAIS).\n\nThe upper campus has a weight room, wrestling room, pool, school library, an indoor tennis facility, baseball field, gym, bookstore, as well as a new (2008) softball field, a newly repaired football/soccer field and a new rubber track. The school also is host to a cross country course. Along with classrooms, an art building, and a theater, and an Energy Lab, the only of its kind in the world. There is also a church on the property built before the school moved to its present site.\n\nThe village campus is in the middle of the town of Waimea, and features the only school-owned professional art-gallery in the state, Isaacs Art Center. The village campus also has two soccer fields.\n\nThe school also has a successful boys cross country team. Two male champions in recent years include Mac Crommett (Class of '07) and Emmett Weatherford (Class of '05). Their girls cross country team has also been successful.\n\nThe school colors are red, white and black. The school's mascot is Ka Makani. Ka Makani is the Hawaiian word for \"the wind\". (The campus is noteworthy for the steady winds which blow around it at speeds averaging 20 MPH.)\n\nThe school's chapel \"The Davies Chapel\" was designed by the world-renown architect Vladimir Ossipoff. In 2015, the Chapel bell tower was taken down for restoration. No progress has been made hence. \n\nAt the end of the 2017 school year, HPA was charged with a sexual abuse case. The then-director of alumni and student programs was found to be having an inappropriate relationship with a student in the year prior.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2011436", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011436", "title": "Jerzy Owsiak", "text": "Jerzy Owsiak\n\nJerzy Owsiak, (born 6 October 1953 in Gdańsk) is a Polish journalist and social campaigner. He is a founder of the Great Orchestra of Christmas Charity (WOŚP / Wielka Orkiestra Świątecznej Pomocy), one of the largest non-governmental, non-profit, charity organizations in Poland. Owsiak is the main initiator and promoter for the group's Grand Finale, an annual worldwide festival involving music and other components intended to raise money for the medical care of children as well as the elderly suffering from various medical conditions. He is also the creator of Pol'and'Rock Festival, formerly known as Przystanek Woodstock (\"Woodstock Festival\"), a large rock music festival that takes place in Kostrzyn nad Odrą, to thank all the volunteers and supporters who take part in the Grand Finale each year.\n\nOwsiak is married to Lidia Niedźwiedzka-Owsiak, the Medical Affairs Director for WOŚP. He is also a stained glass maker, and he has qualifications in psychotherapy.\n\nAt the age of eight, Owsiak moved with his parents from Gdańsk to Warsaw. There, he graduated from high school with an economic profile, and later attempted to achieve a place at the Academy of Fine Arts in Warsaw. When he was a teenager, he was involved with the hippie subculture in the Masovian Voivodeship. His fascination with this subculture led to his idea for the \"Woodstock Stop\", an annual rock concert held in Poland.\n\nDue to his acquaintance with Wojciech Waglewski, Owsiak became well known in music circles. Since 1988, he has attended Voo Voo concerts. He has played at some of them with his band, \"Towarzystwo Przyjaciół Chińskich Ręczników\" ( Society of Friends of Chinese Towels ), and he started his programme on the \"Rozgłośnia Harcerska\" (the Scout's Radio Station).\n\nAfter the termination of his work in the Scout's Radio Station, his next undertaking was the broadcast of \"Brum\". He ran it in the 1991-1994 period in PR Program III. It was only broadcast on Fridays. Between 1994 and 1999, it changed its name to \"Się kręci\". Later, he undertook the broadcast of \"Kręcioła\" on Polskie Radio Program I and attended meetings with listeners on Saturday mornings at RMF FM. However, all of these broadcasts ended only after a few broadcasts, because of conflict with station authorities.\n\nBetween 1991 and 2007, Owsiak cooperated with Telewizja Polska, a public broadcasting corporation, operating throughout Poland. Since December 1991 he has been preparing a TV programme, \"Róbta, co chceta, czyli rockendrollowa jazda bez trzymanki\" for TVP2, which was called \"Dziura w koszu\" from 1994, and from 1996 \"Kręcioła\".\n\nIn 2007 he began working on the radio again. On 4 July 2007 he ran, for the first time, \"Dźwiękoszczelny magazyn Jurka Owsiaka\" on the WAWA radio station. The show was later broadcast on the Eska Rock radio station, until 4 April 2010. In 2007, he produced the youth channel, O.TV (Owsiak TV), which is available on the Direct-broadcast satellite, platform n.\n\nOwsiak is the co-author of the \"Orkiestra Klubu Pomocnych Serc, czyli monolog – wodospad Jurka Owsiaka\", a book which comprises an extensive interview made by Bartłomiej Dobroczyński. He also acted in the TV soap opera \"Klan\" as himself and in the \"Autoportret z kochanką\" by Radosław Piwowarski.\n\nAt the end of the 1980s and the 1990s, Owsiak was engaged in the organization of many rock concerts. He organized a series of marathon music concerts, which all had a common feature – his characteristic \"stammering\" announcing, and the participation of the best Polish Punk rock bands of that time. These concerts included:\n\nIn 1991 and 1992 he ran the Jarocin Festival, along with Walter Chełstowski. They also organized the first Przystanek Woodstock in 1995 in Czymanowo near Żarnowiec.\n\nIn 1993, Owsiak founded the Great Orchestra of Christmas Charity, along with Lidia Niedźwiedzka-Owsiak and Bohdan Maruszewski, which is now one of the largest, non-government, non-profit, charities in Poland. The main objective of the charity is \"Health Protection and Saving Children's Lives through Providing Medical Equipment to Public Hospitals\".\n\nHis first fund-raising participation was organised spontaneously after an appeal from the cardio-surgeons from \"Centrum Zdrowia Dziecka\" (\"Children's Memorial Health Institute\"), for financial support for the purchase of medical equipment. In 1992, Owsiak invited doctors onto his programme \"Brum\" broadcast on Polskie Radio Program III, and repeatedly reminded his listeners on every edition about paying money into a given account. This action was also continued during the Jarocin Festival the same year.\n\nThere was a lot of positive feedback for these actions, and in March 1993, thanks to the initiative of Owsiak and Walter Chełstowski, GOCC officially came into existence and its first Great Finale was organised on January 3, 1993. Since then, the Great Finale has taken place every year and Owsiak is the main organizer and compere of the TV programme under the same title, broadcast on TVP2.\n\nOwsiak split with from TVP after 16 years of cooperation. He ran programmes such as the annual GOCC Great Finale, \"Kręcioła\", \"Bezpieczne Wakacje\" and \"Róbta co chceta\". On 6 October 2007, a new channel on DTH platform n belonging to ITI Group, was launched.\n\nThe decision to split with TVP was made by Owsiak because, as he says, his programmes were not broadcast enough, and the Great Finale of this year was limited only to several five-minute-long entries.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2011439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011439", "title": "New Denver", "text": "New Denver\n\nNew Denver is a village in southeastern British Columbia, Canada, along the shore of Slocan Lake. New Denver was founded as a mining town in 1891, and was initially named Eldorado City in the hope that its fortune would be found in gold. The next year, when it became clear that gold would not be the source of wealth for the community, at a public meeting, Thomas Latheen, a former resident of Denver, Colorado persuaded the meeting that New Denver should be the name for their settlement. It was incorporated as a village in 1929 and has approximately 500 residents.\n\nDuring World War II, New Denver became a Japanese Concentration Camp. Not long after the outbreak of hostilities and Japan's attack on Canadian troops in Hong Kong in December 1941, men of Japanese descent between the ages of 18 to 45 were sent to labour camps in the Interior of British Columbia or farther into Eastern Canada. Also, approximately 1,500 women, children, and elderly men were sent to the \"Orchard\", a small section of New Denver set up to house them. New Denver's Nikkei Internment Memorial Centre is dedicated to the history of the 27,000 Japanese Canadians who were interned by the Canadian government and is a National Historic Site.\n\nIn the 1950s, roughly 200 Doukhobor children, aged 7–15, of Freedomites, a Doukhobor extremist group, were removed from their parents and sent to residential school in New Denver. The Freedomites refused to send their children to school because of their religious beliefs.\n\nKen Casley served as mayor from 1982 until 1989, and then stepped down for health reasons. He was succeeded by Gary Wright. Wright continued in the position until his retirement in 2011, and was succeeded by Ann Bunka. Leonard Casley was elected as mayor in October 2018.\n\nThe town is notable for its resistance to mobile phones. In a 2008 referendum, many citizens voted against the introduction of cellular telephone service. Despite this, on 20 July 2010, Telus Canada began installation of a cell phone facility in the heart of the village with many citizens peacefully protesting the installation.\n"}
{"id": "2011446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011446", "title": "Chapters from a Vale Forlorn", "text": "Chapters from a Vale Forlorn\n\nChapters from a Vale Forlorn is the second album by Swedish power metal band Falconer.\n\nAll songs written by Stefan Weinerhall, except where noted.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2011447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011447", "title": "Posterior ischemic optic neuropathy", "text": "Posterior ischemic optic neuropathy\n\nPosterior ischemic optic neuropathy (PION) is a medical condition characterized by damage to the retrobulbar portion of the optic nerve due to inadequate blood flow (ischemia) to the optic nerve. Despite the term \"posterior\", this form of damage to the eye's optic nerve due to poor blood flow also includes cases where the cause of inadequate blood flow to the nerve is anterior, as the condition describes a particular mechanism of visual loss as much as the location of damage in the optic nerve. In contrast, anterior ischemic optic neuropathy (AION) is distinguished from PION by the fact that AION occurs spontaneously and on one side in affected individuals with predisposing anatomic or cardiovascular risk factors.\n\nPION is characterized by moderate to severe painless vision loss of abrupt onset. One or both eyes may be affected and color vision is typically impaired.\n\nLooking inside the person's eyes at the time of onset, ophthalmoscope exam reveals no visible changes to the optic nerve head. Weeks after ischemic insult, nerve atrophy originating from the damaged posterior optic nerve progresses to involve the anterior optic nerve head. Four to eight weeks after onset, atrophy of the optic nerve head is observable upon ophthalmoscope exam.\n\nIf both eyes are affected by PION, the pupils may look symmetrical. However, if the eyes are asymmetrically affected, i.e. one eye's optic nerve is more damaged than the other, it will produce an important sign called an afferent pupillary defect.\n\nDefective light perception in one eye causes an asymmetrical pupillary constriction reflex called the afferent pupillary defect (APD).\n\nA-PION most commonly affects Caucasian women, with an average age of 73. At onset vision loss is unilateral, but without treatment it rapidly progresses to involve both eyes. Vision loss is usually severe, ranging from counting fingers to no light perception. Associated symptoms are jaw pain exacerbated by chewing, scalp tenderness, shoulder and hip pain, headache and fatigue.\n\nVision loss is usually apparent upon waking from general anesthesia. Signs observable to a bystander include long surgery duration and facial swelling. Vision loss is usually bilateral and severe, ranging from counting fingers to no light perception.\n\nPION is a watershed infarction of the optic nerve that may cause either unilateral or, more often, bilateral blindness. PION typically occurs in two categories of people:\n\nThe combination of anemia and low blood pressure means that the blood is carrying less oxygen to the tissues. The optic nerve can be at very high risk for damage from insufficient blood supply due to swelling (from lack of oxygen) in a confined bony space resulting in a compartment syndrome. Restricted blood flow can lead to permanent damage to the optic nerve and result in blindness (often in both eyes). For technical reasons this occurs more frequently with spinal surgeries.\n\nPerioperative PION patients have a higher prevalence of cardiovascular risk factors than in the general population. Documented cardiovascular risks in people affected by perioperative PION include high blood pressure, diabetes mellitus, high levels of cholesterol in the blood, tobacco use, abnormal heart rhythms, stroke, and obesity. Men are also noted to be at higher risk, which is in accordance with the trend, as men are at higher risk of cardiovascular disease. These cardiovascular risks all interfere with adequate blood flow, and also may suggest a contributory role of defective vascular autoregulation.\n\nAs illustrated by the risk factors above, perioperative hypoxia is a multifactorial problem. Amidst these risk factors it may be difficult to pinpoint the optic nerve's threshold for cell death, and the exact contribution of each factor.\n\nLow blood pressure and anemia are cited as perioperative complications in nearly all reports of PION, which suggests a causal relationship. However, while low blood pressure and anemia are relatively common in the perioperative setting, PION is exceedingly rare. Spine and cardiac bypass surgeries have the highest estimated incidences of PION, 0.028% and 0.018% respectively, and this is still extremely low. This evidence suggests that optic nerve injury in PION patients is caused by more than just anemia and low blood pressure.\n\nEvidence suggests that the multifactorial origin of perioperative PION involves the risks discussed above and perhaps other unknown factors. Current review articles of PION propose that vascular autoregulatory dysfunction and anatomic variation are under-investigated subjects that may contribute to patient-specific susceptibility.\n\nIn both types of PION, decreased blood flow leads to the death of optic nerve cells. Ischemic injury to the optic nerve causes inflammation and swelling. Because the posterior optic nerve passes through the optic canal, a bony tunnel leading to the brain, swelling in this rigid space causes compression of the optic nerve. This compression worsens ischemia and perpetuates the cycle of injury, and swelling, and compression.\n\nA-PION is caused by an inflammatory disease called giant cell arteritis (GCA). GCA is an inflammatory disease of blood vessels. It is believed to be an autoimmune disease caused by inappropriate T-cell activity. When T-cells damage arteries supplying the optic nerve, a blood clot forms and stops blood flow. When blood flow stops, oxygen delivery stops and optic nerve fibers die.\n\nThe exact cause of perioperative PION is unknown. Many risk factors have been identified, all of which contribute to inadequate delivery of oxygen to optic nerve cells. Alone, none of these risk factors is enough to cause PION. However, in susceptible individuals, a combination of these risk factors produces devastating blindness. This evidence suggests that PION is a disease of multifactorial origin.\n\nRisks of perioperative PION can be divided into two categories, intraoperative ischemic pressures, and cardiovascular risk factors.\n\nMany causes of decreased blood flow during surgery are systemic, i.e. they decrease blood flow throughout the body. Studies have shown that nearly all perioperative PION patients suffered from prolonged periods of low blood pressure during the operation and postoperative anemia. The average perioperative PION patient loses 4 liters of blood during surgery, and the majority receive blood transfusions. Massive blood loss is just one cause of low blood pressure. Medications used for general anesthesia can also lower blood pressure. The average surgery duration in PION cases is 7 to 9 hours, which increases the risk of prolonged low blood pressure.\n\nOther intraoperative ischemic pressures are local, i.e. they decrease blood flow to the affected area, the optic nerve. Facial swelling, periorbital swelling, direct orbital compression, facedown position during surgery, and a tilted operating table in feet-above-head position, have all been reported to be associated with perioperative PION. All of these factors are believed to increase tissue pressure and venous pressure around the optic nerve, thereby decreasing local blood flow and oxygen delivery.\n\nSurgeries with the highest estimated incidence of PION are surgeries with a higher risk of the aforementioned conditions. In spine surgery, patients are susceptible to significant blood loss, and they are positioned face down for long periods of time, which increases venous pressure, decreases arterial perfusion pressure, and often causes facial swelling (increased tissue pressure). Spine surgery is estimated to have the highest incidence of PION, 0.028%. Long duration of feet-above-head position in prostate surgery has also been suggested to increase risk of PION.\n\nThe diagnosis of PION is often difficult since the optic nerves initially appear normal. The injury occurs posterior to that portion of the nerve visible during ophthalmoscopic examination. There may be an abnormal relative pupillary response (APD) if the injury is confined to one optic nerve, but often it is bilateral and the symmetry of pupillary responses is maintained. Furthermore, MRI scanning may not be helpful. It is not uncommon for the erroneous diagnoses of malingering or cortical blindness to be made. If possible, an urgent neuro-ophthalmology consult is most likely to lead to the correct diagnosis.\n\nThere is no confirmatory test for PION. PION is a diagnosis of exclusion. To prevent impending blindness, it is urgent to rule out giant cell arteritis when a patient over 50 presents with sudden vision loss.\n\nIn the postoperative setting, without gross eye injury, visual loss requires an assessment of the whole visual system for ischemic damage. The optic nerve is not the only tissue of the visual pathway susceptible to decreased blood flow. Decreased oxygenation of the retina or brain could also impair vision.\n\nPION is less common than Anterior Ischemic Optic Neuropathy (AION). Blood supply and surrounding anatomy make the anterior and posterior portions of the optic nerve susceptible to different ischemic pressures.\n\nThe posterior optic nerve receives blood primarily from the pial branches of the ophthalmic artery. The optic canal, a boney tunnel leading to the brain, surrounds the most posterior part of this optic nerve segment.\n\nThe anterior optic nerve receives blood primarily from the posterior ciliary arteries. The anterior optic nerve, a.k.a. the optic nerve head, is surrounded by the scleral canal, and is vulnerable to crowding of nerve fibers. The portion of the optic nerve head that is visible by looking into the eye with an ophthalmoscope is called the optic disc.\n\nAt the onset of symptoms, ophthalmoscope examination can differentiate AION from PION. If optic nerve head involvement is observed, it is AION. PION does not produce optic atrophy that is observable via ophthalmoscope until four to eight weeks after onset. In addition, AION often shows a characteristic altitudinal defect on a Humphrey Visual Field test.\n\nThe American College of Rheumatology has defined a combination of physical symptoms and inflammatory changes to diagnose giant cell arteritis.\n\nIndividuals with a history of high blood pressure, diabetes, and smoking are most susceptible to PION as they have a compromised system of blood vessel autoregulation. Hence, extra efforts may need to be taken for them in the form of careful or staged surgery or the controlling the anemia from blood loss (by administration of blood transfusions), and the careful maintenance of their blood pressure.\n\nOnce visual loss has occurred, it becomes more problematic, but there are reports of recovered vision if blood transfusions and agents that raise blood pressure are administered within hours.\n\nIf a diagnosis of GCA is suspected, treatment with steroids should begin immediately. A sample (biopsy) of the temporal artery should be obtained to confirm the diagnosis and guide future management, but should not delay initiation of treatment. Treatment does not recover lost vision, but prevents further progression and second eye involvement. High dose corticosteroids may be tapered down to low doses over approximately one year.\n\nRapid blood transfusions, to correct anemia and raise blood pressure, may improve PION outcomes. In one report of a related disease, hypotension-induced AION, 3 out of 3 patients who received rapid transfusions reported partial recovery of vision. While rapid transfusions offer some hope, the prognosis for perioperative PION remains poor. Prevention remains the best way to reduce PION.\n\nOne retrospective report proposes that incidence of PION could be reduced in high-risk cases by altering surgical management. For example, for patients undergoing spine surgery, measures could be taken to minimize intraoperative hypotension, to accelerate the process of blood replacement, and to aggressively treat facial swelling.\n\nPION most commonly affects the elderly.\n"}
{"id": "2011451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011451", "title": "Ethnic Minority Party of New Zealand", "text": "Ethnic Minority Party of New Zealand\n\nThe Ethnic Minority Party was a New Zealand political party which focused on Asian voters, particularly Chinese and Indians.\n\nThe party was formed on 2 April 1996, and hoped to take advantage of the benefits given to smaller parties by the new MMP electoral system. It was organised by Robert Hum, an immigrant to New Zealand from Malaysia. The party's foundation came as the anti-immigration New Zealand First party made significant gains in the polls. In the 1996 elections, it stood a list of eleven candidates, and received 0.12% of the vote.\n\nIn 1997, the Ethnic Minority Party merged into the United New Zealand party, and in the 1999 elections, many Ethnic Minority Party candidates were in high positions on United's list. However, United won only a single seat, leaving the Ethnic Minority candidates outside Parliament. Later, United merged with Future New Zealand to create the modern United Future, and the Ethnic Minority influence has been considerably diluted.\n"}
{"id": "2011471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011471", "title": "Sodium perchlorate", "text": "Sodium perchlorate\n\nSodium perchlorate is the inorganic compound with the chemical formula NaClO. It is a white crystalline, hygroscopic solid that is highly soluble in water and in alcohol. It is usually encountered as the monohydrate. The compound is noteworthy as the most water-soluble of the common perchlorate salts.\n\nSodium perchlorate is present on the planet Mars.\n\nIts heat of formation is −382.75 kJ/mol, i.e. it is favorable for it to decompose into sodium chloride and dioxygen. It crystallizes in the rhombic crystal system.\n\nSodium perchlorate is the precursor to many other perchlorate salts, often taking advantage of their low solubility relative to NaClO (209 g/100 mL at 25 °C). Perchloric acid is made by treating NaClO with HCl.\n\nAmmonium and potassium perchlorate, of interest in pyrotechnics, are prepared by double decomposition from a solution of sodium perchlorate and potassium or ammonium chlorides.\n\nSolutions of NaClO are often used as an unreactive electrolyte. It is used in standard DNA extraction and hybridization reactions in molecular biology.\n\nSodium perchlorate can be used to block iodine uptake before administration of iodinated contrast agents in patients with subclinical hyperthyroidism (suppressed TSH).\n\nSodium perchlorate may also be used as a material to train canines to detect bomb materials.\n\nSodium perchlorate is produced by anodic oxidation of sodium chlorate at an inert electrode, such as platinum.\n\nClO + HO → ClO + 2H + 2 e (acidic medium)\n\nClO + 2 OH → ClO + HO + 2 e (alkaline medium)\n\nLD50 is 2 – 4 g/kg (rabbits, oral).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2011473", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011473", "title": "Ballymacarrett", "text": "Ballymacarrett\n\nBallymacarrett or Ballymacarret () is the name of both a townland and electoral ward in Belfast. The townland is in County Down and the electoral ward is part of the Pottinger district electoral area of Belfast City Council.\n\nThe ward was created in 1973 with most of the population coming from the former Pottinger ward. The ward was slightly enlarged in 1985, taking in part of the Island ward.\n\nThe ward consists of two distinct districts : Ballymacarrett itself, which is almost entirely Protestant, and the Short Strand which is almost entirely Catholic, with the two separated by a peaceline. Consequently, in the 2001 census, the Roman Catholic community background figure was 51%.\n\nSet in the shadows of the Harland and Wolff cranes Samson & Goliath, large numbers of local men worked in the shipyard during its heyday. The area is also well known for 'Ulster's Freedom Corner', a series of loyalist murals.\n\nIn some ways the ward has been a microcosm of the Northern Ireland troubles. The June 1970 \"Battle of Saint Matthew's\" occupies an important place in Irish republican history after a gun battle between republicans and loyalists, who were accused of attacking the church. Loyalists counter this with claims that three Orange Order members were killed after returning from a parade. The Historical Enquiries Team (HET) confirmed the loyalist version of events. It is seen as one of the key developments in the rise to prominence of the Provisional IRA. Similarly on the Ballymacarrett side of the peaceline, Protestant residents have claimed that Republicans are engaged in attacks on Protestant homes which amount to 'ethnic cleansing' – claims which Republicans dispute and deny.\n\nBallymacarrett and the nearby Newtownards Road played a key part in what became known as the 2011 Northern Ireland riots. At first, the riots were only located in the area and were known as the 2011 East Belfast riots but by July, the riots had spread to other parts of the country. During the riots, the Protestants in the area were going against Short Strand Catholics.\n\nBallymacarrett was the location of the Ballymacarrett Junction, a large railway junction that served the Belfast and County Down Railway from its Queens Quay terminus, to Bangor in the north, and the mainline running south to Comber, Downpatrick and Newcastle. There was also an interconnection over the river Lagan to the Great Northern Railway and on to Belfast Central railway station.\n\nBallymacarrett was the scene of the Ballymacarrett rail crash which occurred at 7.50am on 10 January 1945 when the 7.40am rail motor Holywood to Belfast crashed into the rear of the 7.10am Bangor to Belfast train. 22 passengers were killed, and 27 injured. The darkness and local fog were a factor but the driver of the rail motor was held to blame.\n\nBallymacarrett Halt railway station was located on the B&CDR route from Belfast to Bangor. It opened on 1 May 1905, but closed on 9 May 1977, when the adjacent Bridge End railway station opened.\n"}
{"id": "2011474", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011474", "title": "The Bellevue-Stratford Hotel", "text": "The Bellevue-Stratford Hotel\n\nThe Bellevue-Stratford Hotel is a landmark building at 200 S. Broad Street at the corner of Walnut Street in Center City, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania United States. Constructed in 1904 and expanded to its present size in 1912, it has continued as a well-known institution for more than a century and is still widely known by that original, historic name. In 1988 the building was converted to a mixed-use development. It has been known since then as The Bellevue. The hotel portion is currently managed by Hyatt as The Bellevue Hotel.\n\nBorn Georg Karl Boldt in Prussia in 1851, he immigrated to the United States as a teenager in 1864. Beginning as a kitchen worker, at age 25 was hired by William Kehrer, steward of The Philadelphia Club, as his assistant steward at the time of the 1876 Centennial Exposition at Philadelphia. Soon after he married his employer's daughter, Philadelphia-born Louise Kehrer. Prominent members of the Philadelphia Club assisted the couple in setting up their own hotel, the Bellevue, at the northwest corner of Broad and Walnut Streets, in 1881. A small hotel, it quickly became nationally known for its high standard of service, elite clientele, and fine cuisine; it is believed that Chicken à la King was created in the 1890s by hotel cook William \"Bill\" King.\n\nIn 1890, George Boldt was invited by William Waldorf Astor to be proprietor of the new Waldorf Hotel in New York City. Louise Boldt had been instrumental in making their Philadelphia hotel attractive and socially acceptable to wealthy women. This was probably a major motivation for Astor in asking George Boldt to become proprietor of his new Waldorf, later expanded by John Jacob Astor IV to become the world-class institution known as the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel.\n\nWith his success at managing the enormous Waldorf Astoria, George Boldt decided to build a similarly large and luxurious hotel in his home town. He acquired the Stratford Hotel across Walnut on the southwest corner and commissioned the grand 19 floor Bellevue-Stratford Hotel, designed in the French Renaissance style by G.W. & W.D. Hewitt, with Purdy and Henderson, Engineers. These Philadelphia architects also designed the Boldts' famous landmark residence, Boldt Castle in the Thousand Islands. Opening in 1904 after two years in the making and costing over $8,000,000 (in 1904 dollars), the Bellevue-Stratford was described at the time as the most luxurious hotel in the nation and perhaps the most spectacular hotel building in the world. It had hundreds of guest suites in a variety of styles, the most magnificent ballroom in the United States, delicate lighting fixtures designed by Thomas Edison, stained and leaded glass embellishments in the form of transoms and Venetian windows and sky-lights by Alfred Godwin, and the most celebrated marble and hand-worked iron elliptical staircase in the city. In 1912 a large extension to the west brought it up to a reputed 1,090 guest rooms, and added the top floor domed function rooms.\n\nFrom its beginning, the Bellevue-Stratford was the center of Philadelphia's cultural, social and business activities. It soon functioned as a sort of clubhouse for the Philadelphia establishment, not only a place where the rich and powerful dined and occasionally slept, but also the venue for their meetings and social functions. Charity balls, society weddings, club meetings and special family gatherings have all been held in the hotel's ballrooms and meeting rooms. The rich and famous, royalty and heads of state from all over the world, presidents, politicians, actors and famous writers have stayed within its walls. 15 U.S. Presidents, beginning with Theodore Roosevelt and ending with Ronald Reagan, have been guests at the hotel, which is respectfully called the \"Grand Dame of Broad Street.\"\n\nOriginally the western end of the building was only three stories high. In 1911 Boldt added extensions to the hotel and carried it to the full nineteen stories. It was completed in 1912 at a cost of $850,000.\n\nIn June 1919 the Bellevue was leased to T. Coleman du Pont, together with Lucius M. Boomer, president of Boomer-du Pont Properties Corporation. The ground and building were retained by George C. Boldt Jr. Boomer-du Pont offered the Boldt family $7,500,000 for the hotel. They refused, as the asking price was $10,000,000. In June 1925 the company backed by duPont, The Bellevue Company purchased the hotel for $6,500,000 from the heirs of George C. Boldt. It was said that $3,000,000 was paid in cash and a mortgage was taken over the property for $3,500,000.\n\nIn October 1926, Queen Marie of Romania stayed at the hotel. The Royal Suite of 11 rooms on the seventh floor to be occupied by Queen Marie and her entourage of 19 has a history. Among the world-famous people who have occupied the suite are President and Mrs. Calvin Coolidge, Cardinal Mercier of Belgium, President and Mrs. Woodrow Wilson, Marshal Joffre, General John J. Pershing, President and Mrs. Warren G. Harding, a brother of the Emperor of Japan, Sir Esme Howard, Ambassador Jules Jusserand, and Ambassador Auckland Geddes.\n\nDuring the 1920s through the 1940s, the noted global host Claude H. Bennett managed the now 735 room Philadelphia hotel. His son, Robert C. Bennett (Cornell Hotel School 1940), and grandson, Robert Jr. (Drexel Hill, PA), Professor of Hotel Management at a suburban Philadelphia community college (Delaware County Community College), were both on the senior management staff of the \"Grand Dame\" of Broad Street as late as the 1970s prior to the temporary hotel closing.\n\nThe Great Depression brought hard times to the Bellevue-Stratford, although it continued to be \"Philadelphia's hotel.\" Gradually, through lack of income and attention, the hotel's glitter began to tarnish. During the 1940s and 1950s, the classic architecture and rich decorative details of the hotel were thought to be overpowering, anachronistic and even offensive.\n\nNoted hotelier Charles Todd managed the hotel after this period, bringing it back \"into the black.\" He had managed the Lake Placid facility for the 1932 Winter Olympics, and later retired from the famed Hotel Hershey in Hershey, Pennsylvania in the 1960s. He is also known for teaching a public domain game called \"The Landlords Game\" (teaching economic principles espoused by the Henry George School of Economics in Philadelphia) in the 1930s to Charles Darrow, who later claimed to have invented it as \"Monopoly\".\n\nThe Bellevue-Stratford was the headquarters of the 1936 and 1948 National Conventions of the U.S. Republican Party and the 1948 Convention of the Democratic Party.\n\nOn October 30, 1963, the Bellevue-Stratford Hotel became a 'testing ground' of sorts for the 35th U.S. President, John F. Kennedy, as he successfully rode in a 13-mile open car motorcade from the Philadelphia International Airport to the Bellevue-Stratford Hotel. Less than a month later, JFK was assassinated in an open car motorcade through the city of Dallas, Texas.\n\nThe hotel gained worldwide notoriety in July 1976, when it hosted a statewide convention of the American Legion. Soon after, a pneumonia-like disease killed 29 people and sickened 182 more who had been in the hotel. The vast majority were members of the convention. The negative publicity associated with what became known as \"Legionnaires' Disease\" caused occupancy at the Bellevue-Stratford to plummet to 4 percent and the hotel finally closed on November 18, 1976.\n\nIn 1977, Dr. Joseph McDade discovered a new bacterium, which was identified as the causative organism. It thrives in hot, damp places like the water of the cooling towers for the Bellevue-Stratford's air-conditioning system, which spread the disease throughout the hotel. The bacterium was named \"Legionella\" and the disease, legionellosis, after the first victims.\n\nThe empty building was listed in the National Register of Historic Places in 1977.\n\nThe Bellevue-Stratford was sold in June 1978 to the Richard I. Rubin Company for $8.25 million. Rubin undertook a $25-million restoration. The guest rooms were completely gutted and their number reduced from 725 to 565, while the public areas were painstakingly restored to their 1904 appearance. 44,000 square yards of carpet were imported from Ireland, 25 tons of marble came from Portugal and crystal chandeliers were sourced from Uruguay.\n\nThe hotel reopened on September 26, 1979, managed by Fairmont Hotels, as the Fairmont Hotel. The following year, Western International Hotels bought a 49-percent interest in the hotel and assumed management on November 15, 1980. They returned the hotel to its original name, Bellevue Stratford, and announced plans to construct a huge parking garage adjacent to the hotel. Two months later, Western International was itself renamed Westin Hotels, and the hotel was soon renamed The Westin Bellevue Stratford. By the mid-1980s, the hotel was struggling to fill its hundreds of rooms. Philadelphia had lower hotel occupancy rates than other major East Coast cities at the time, and a lengthy conflict between city and state officials over financing for a new convention center, which would eventually open in 1993, meant that demand for hotel rooms in Center City was even lower than expected. With an occupancy rate of 55 percent, far below the 65-70 percent necessary to break even, and having operated at a total cash loss of $25 million from 1979–1985, never once turning a profit since its restoration, the hotel's owners announced in January 1986 that it would close on February 2. A lawsuit by the union representing the hotel's 450+ employees over the short notice given to its members, resulted in an agreement to keep the hotel open until April 2, but with The Westin Bellevue Stratford's advance bookings transferred to other hotels as a result of the closure announcement, only two floors of guest rooms still in use, and only 10 to 15 guests a night in the enormous building by that point, the union accepted a settlement of $500,000 and a promise that the renovated hotel would remain a union shop and agreed to an earlier closing date. The Westin Bellevue Stratford closed on March 7, 1986.\n\nThe Rubin Company bought out Westin's stake in the hotel and again undertook extensive work on the building, at a cost of $100 million, designed by architects from RTKL Associates Inc. in Baltimore and the \"Vitetta Group-Studio Four\" of Philadelphia. The building's name was shortened to The Bellevue. The grand public areas on the ground floor were converted to 55,000 sq ft of retail space. A huge atrium was cut into the lobby and escalators were installed leading to an underground shopping area and food court. The parking garage adjacent to the hotel had a 70,000 sq ft fitness club built on top of it to serve the complex. The hotel rooms on floors 3 to 11 were converted into 280,000 sq ft of office space, entered through the original main entrance facing Broad Street, with the office portion opening on December 5, 1988.\n\nThe hotel portion was condensed to 170 guest rooms on floors 12-18. The hotel was entered through a small foyer on the ground floor facing Chancellor Court, with the lobby and public rooms on the remodeled 19th floor. The two domed ballrooms on that floor (the South and North Cameo rooms), were turned into the Ethel Barrymore Tea Room and a restaurant called Founders, with statues of Philadelphia fathers William Penn, Benjamin Franklin, David Rittenhouse, and Charles Wilson Peale. The middle wing of the E-shaped building was removed from the guest room floors 12 to 18, and the back side was sealed up, creating an atrium. The historic 19th-floor Rose Ballroom atop this middle wing was retained, however, standing on seven-story stilts which ran through the atrium.\n\nThe hotel portion reopened on April 1, 1989 as the Hotel Atop The Bellevue, managed under a 10-year lease by the Cunard Line, The hotel opened to protests by unionized former employees, because Cunard was not part of the agreement to rehire them and had not done so. Cunard's hotel division proved financially unsuccessful and soon folded. Cunard terminated its lease on the hotel on February 7, 1993. Interstate Hotels & Resorts of Pittsburgh assumed management in December 1994 and the hotel's name was shortened to match the whole multi-use complex, becoming The Bellevue. On December 1, 1996 Hyatt took over management of the hotel, placing it in their Park Hyatt boutique division and renaming it the Park Hyatt Philadelphia at the Bellevue. In 2007 the two restaurants and Founders bar were re-designed by Marguerite Rodgers as XIX (NINETEEN) Cafe, Bar and Restaurant. In 2009 all four balconies outside the cafe and restaurant were restored and opened to the public for the highest outside dining experience in the city. In 2010 the hotel was moved from the Park Hyatt to the Hyatt division and its name was shortened to Hyatt at The Bellevue. The hotel moved to The Unbound Collection division of Hyatt in March 2018, and was renamed The Bellevue Hotel.\n\nIn 1993 the city moved its convention center from West Philadelphia to Center City, sparking a boom in hotel occupancy for the Bellevue and other hostelries for a popular facility that subsequently benefited from a major expansion.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2011476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011476", "title": "Magnesium perchlorate", "text": "Magnesium perchlorate\n\nMagnesium perchlorate is a powerful oxidizing agent, with the formula Mg(ClO). It is also a superior drying agent for gas analysis.\n\nMagnesium perchlorate decomposes at 250 °C. The heat of formation is -568.90 kJ mol.\n\nThe enthalpy of solution is quite high, so reactions are done in large amounts of water to dilute it.\n\nIt is sold under the trade name anhydrone. Manufacture of this product on a semi-industrial scale was first performed by G. Frederick Smith in his garage in Urbana Illinois, but later at a permanent facility in Columbus, OH called G. Frederick Smith Chemical Co. He sold the magnesium perchlorate to A. H. Thomas Co., now Thomas Scientific, under the trade name Dehydrite.\n\nIt is used as desiccant to dry gas or air samples, but is no longer advised, for use as a general desiccant, due to hazards inherent in perchlorates. It is dried by heating at 220 °C under vacuum.\n\nMagnesium perchlorate is produced by the reaction of magnesium hydroxide and perchloric acid.\n\nMagnesium and other perchlorates have been found on Mars, appearing especially abundant and/or hydrated in locations where active flows are observed. Being a drying agent, magnesium perchlorate retains water from the atmosphere and may release it when conditions are favorable and temperature is above 250K. Because briny solutions that contain magnesium perchlorate have a lower melting point than that of pure water, their abundance on Mars could serve as evidence that liquid water may exist on its surface, where temperature and pressure conditions would ordinarily cause water to freeze.\n"}
{"id": "2011485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011485", "title": "Lyman Trumbull", "text": "Lyman Trumbull\n\nLyman Trumbull (October 12, 1813 – June 25, 1896) was a United States Senator from Illinois and the co-author of the Thirteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution.\n\nBorn in Colchester, Connecticut, Trumbull established a law practice in Greenville, Georgia, before moving to Alton, Illinois, in 1837. He served as the Illinois Secretary of State from 1841 to 1843 and as a justice of the Illinois Supreme Court from 1848 to 1853. He was elected to the Senate in 1855 and became a member of the Republican Party. As chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee from 1861 to 1873, he co-wrote the Thirteenth Amendment, which abolished slavery in the United States.\n\nIn the 1868 impeachment trial of President Andrew Johnson, Trumbull voted to acquit Johnson despite heavy pressure from other Republican senators. He was a candidate for the presidential nomination at the 1872 Liberal Republican convention but the fledgling party nominated Horace Greeley instead. Trumbull left the Senate in 1873 to establish a legal practice in Chicago. Before his death in 1896, he became a member of the Populist Party and represented Eugene V. Debs before the Supreme Court.\n\nTrumbull was born in Colchester, Connecticut, the grandson of the historian Benjamin Trumbull. After graduating from Bacon Academy, he taught school from 1829 to 1833.\n\nAt 20, he was hired as head of an academy in Georgia. He studied (read the law) as a legal apprentice, and was admitted to the bar in Georgia. He practiced law in Greenville, Georgia until 1837, when he moved west to Alton, Illinois. His house in Alton, the Lyman Trumbull House, is a National Historic Monument.\n\nBy 1840, Trumbull was elected to the Illinois House of Representatives. He was appointed as Illinois Secretary of State, serving from 1841 to 1843. In 1848, he was appointed as a justice of the Supreme Court of Illinois, serving until 1853.\n\nAlthough elected to the United States House of Representatives in 1854, he was elected by the state legislature to serve in the United States Senate before he could take his seat. He served for nearly two decades, from 1855 through 1873. During this time, he claimed party affiliations with the Democrats, the Republicans, the Liberal Republicans, and finally the Democrats again.\n\nOn August 7, 1858, Trumbull delivered a speech in Chicago stating \"We, the Republican Party, are the white man's party, we are for free white men and for making white labor respectable and honorable, which it can never be when negro slave labor is brought into competition with it\".\n\nOn 16 December 1861, Trumbull asked the Senate to consider his resolution:\n\nSenator James Dixon said of the resolution that \"it seems to me calculated to produce nothing but mischief.\"\n\nAs chairman of the Judiciary Committee (1861–1872), he co-wrote the Thirteenth Amendment, which prohibited all kinds of slavery in the United States other than its use as punishment for crimes of which the party had been convicted; this became the sentence to \"time at hard labor\" that became assignable for certain crimes. It was also the constitutional loophole by which southern states abused convict lease labor, a practice lasting into the twentieth century. \nDuring President Andrew Johnson's impeachment trial, Trumbull and six other Republican senators were disturbed by their belief that Thaddeus Stevens and Benjamin Wade and those of similar position had manipulated the proceedings against Johnson in order to give a one-sided presentation of the evidence. Trumbull, in particular, noted:\n\"Once set the example of impeaching a President for what, when the excitement of the hour shall have subsided, will be regarded as insufficient causes, as several of those now alleged against the President were decided to be by the House of Representatives only a few months since, and no future President will be safe who happens to differ with a majority of the House and two-thirds of the Senate on any measure deemed by them important, particularly if of a political character. Blinded by partisan zeal, with such an example before them, they will not scruple to remove out of the way any obstacle to the accomplishment of their purposes, and what then becomes of the checks and balances of the Constitution, so carefully devised and so vital to its perpetuity? They are all gone.\"\n\nAll seven senators, resisting the pressure imposed on them, broke party ranks and defied public opinion, voting for acquittal, although they knew their decision would be unpopular. None was reelected. After the trial, Representative Ben Butler of Massachusetts conducted hearings in the House on widespread reports that Republican senators had been bribed to vote for Johnson's acquittal. Butler's hearings and subsequent inquiries revealed evidence that some acquittal votes were acquired by promises of patronage jobs and cash cards.\n\nDuring the December 1871 congressional debate on the creation of Yellowstone National Park, Senator Trumbull, whose son Walter Trumbull was a member of the Washburn-Langford-Doane Expedition to Yellowstone in 1870, spoke in favor of the park concept:\n\"Here is a region of the country away up in the Rocky Mountains, where there are the most wonderful geysers on the face of the earth; a country that is not likely ever to be inhabited for the purpose of agriculture; but it is possible that some person may go there and plant himself right across the only path that leads to the wonders, and charge every man that passes along between the gorges of these mountains a fee of a dollar or five dollars. He may place an obstruction there and toll may be gathered from every person who goes to see these wonders of creation.\" \n\nAfter leaving the Senate in 1873, Trumbull set up a law practice in Chicago. He worked in private practice except for a brief period when he ran an unsuccessful campaign for governor (as a Democrat) in 1880. In January 1883, Trumbull was given a seat of honor at the dedication of the Pullman Arcade Theatre in George Pullman's company town.\n\nHe became a Populist in 1894. According to Almont Lindsey's 1942 book, \"The Pullman Strike,\" Trumbull took part in defending Eugene Debs and other labor leaders of the American Railway Union, who had been convicted for violating a federal court injunction during the 1894 Pullman railroad strike. Trumbull was part of the three-member legal team, which included Clarence Darrow, when their \"habeas corpus\" case \"Ex parte In the Matter of Eugene V. Debs 'et al.\"' was heard by the US Supreme Court in 1895.\n\nDuring his explorations in the west John Wesley Powell named Mt. Trumbull (and now the Mt. Trumbull Wilderness) in northwestern Arizona after the Senator. The Lyman Trumbull House is a National Historic Landmark. Trumbull has a street named after him in the city of Chicago; Lyman Trumbull Elementary School in Chicago was named after the Senator. Trumbull Park and adjacent Trumbull Park Homes in Chicago are named after the Senator.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2011489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011489", "title": "The Sceptre of Deception", "text": "The Sceptre of Deception\n\nThe Sceptre of Deception is the third album by Swedish power metal band Falconer, the first with vocalist Kristoffer Göbel and also the first to feature a full band line-up. The album covers events during the reign of King Birger of Sweden and lengthy strife between him, his brothers, and the Danish and Norwegian crowns.\n\nAll songs written by Stefan Weinerhall.\n\nThere is bonus track on the Japanese version of the album called \"The Gate\". This songs is unrelated to the concept of the album.\n\n\n\nProduced by Falconer & Andy La Rocque. Engineered by A. La Rocque at \"Los Angered.\"\n"}
{"id": "2011493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011493", "title": "Milan Hodža", "text": "Milan Hodža\n\nMilan Hodža (1 February 1878 – 27 June 1944) was a Slovak politician and journalist, serving from 1935 to 1938 as the Prime Minister of Czechoslovakia. As a proponent of regional integration, he was famous for his attempts to establish a democratic federation of Central European states.\n\nHis son was Fedor Hodža (a politician) and he was the nephew of Michal Miloslav Hodža (a politician and poet).\n\n\nMilan Hodža was born in the Lutheran parish of Sučany, in the Turóc County of the Kingdom of Hungary (present-day Slovakia). He studied at gymnasiums (high-schools) in Banská Bystrica (1888-1890), Sopron (1890-1894) and in Sibiu (present-day Romania), where he passed in 1896 graduation exams and at universities in Budapest and Vienna. He started his career as a journalist in Budapest, in 1897. He edited and founded the newspaper \"Slovenský denník\" (1900–1901) and the weekly \"Slovenský týždenník\" (1903–1914). From 1916 to 1918, he was editor of the Austrian press office in Vienna.\n\nAs a member of the Slovak National Party - at that time the only Slovak party in Austria-Hungary - he became the ideological leader and founder of Slovak agrarianism. Since the Slovak National Party did not endorse his agrarian program, he decided to create his own political party, but World War I prevented him from this. Later, he also became an important representative of the Czechoslovak and international agrarian movement between the two world wars: He founded and was a member of the presidium of the International Agrarian Bureau - an institution of European agrarian parties.\n\nMilan Hodža was a close aide of Archduke Franz Ferdinand, the successor to the Austrian and Hungarian thrones, since the 1910 elections. He proposed to him a very precise plan of turning the Kingdom of Hungary into a federative monarchy (including a separate Slovak state). The Archduke hoped that federalization would strengthen the ties between the oppressed non-Magyar nations and the monarchy, but his initiative was strongly opposed by the Hungarian political elite.\n\nDuring World War I, Milan Hodža was involved in the preparations of the creation of Czecho-Slovakia. He was a member of the 1918-1919 Slovak National Council and was a signatory of the Declaration of the Slovak Nation, by which the Slovaks officially joined the newly created state of Czechoslovakia in 1918.\n\nAfter World War I, he became the leader of the Czechoslovak Agrarian Party in Slovakia and as such gained considerable influence over Czechoslovakia's policy in all spheres – he influenced the process of land reform, the passing of bills on agrarian tolls, enforced syndicalization, administrative reforms, and the structure and policy of the government. In 1936-1937 he attempted to launch a project of bringing together Czechoslovakia, Austria, Romania, Hungary and Yugoslavia based on preferential duties - a step towards the unprecedented economic integration of the region. Instead, Hodža's government had to accept the Munich Agreement in 1938 and he was forced to resign under pressure.\n\nSince 1921, Milan Hodža was also professor of modern history at the Comenius University in Bratislava. In the interwar period, he helped found many Slovak newspapers and magazines and had a strong political and ideological influence on them. His political papers were published in the book \"Články, reči, štúdie 1-6\" (1930–1934; Articles, Speeches, Studies).\n\nIn the 1920s, he was a Czechoslovakist (considered the Czechs and Slovaks to form one nation), which enabled him to reach high posts in Prague. Nevertheless, he had frequent conflicts with Czech politicians, because he was trying to take into account the specific needs of Slovakia within Czechoslovakia, which was unusual at that time. Moreover, he planned the creation of a block of anti-Centrist (i.e. anti-Prague) Slovak parties. He somewhat changed his views later - in 1938 he acknowledged the full sovereignty of the Slovaks as a separate nation and in the summer of that year (i.e. before Slovakia's autonomy was proclaimed in the autumn) he included in the programme of his government his personal project of changes in the structure of centralist Czechoslovakia - it was a combination of federal, autonomist and self-administrative ideas.\n\nAfter the Munich Agreement in late 1938, he lived in exile in Switzerland, France (1939), Great Britain (1940) and after 1941 in the US. During World War II, he was the co-author of a memorandum on the situation of Slovakia within Czechoslovakia (October 1939), in which he re-iterated his project of 1938. In November 1939, he established the 1939 Slovak National Council in Paris as the supreme body of Slovak resistance. The Slovak National Council merged with the Czech National Council to form the Czecho-Slovak National Council in January 1940. This organization (including its Czech members) competed with the government-in-exile led by Edvard Beneš (a strong Czechoslovakist) in London. Both exile groups were in permanent conflict. When Paris was conquered by the Germans, the British security forces took the members of the Czecho-Slovak National Council into custody which was an accomplishment of spies working for the Beneš group. Hodža capitulated and he accepted a second-rate post in Beneš's State Council in November 1940. He did not participate in the activities of the State Council however, and fled to the US in 1941. In the US, he developed a project for a Central European Federation (published as the book \"Federation in Central Europe\", 1942). Although his plan received attention from American intellectuals and the Department of State officials, his plan could not materialize due to the beginning of the Cold War.\n\nMilan Hodža held high Czechoslovak, French, Romanian, Yugoslavian and Polish awards. On 27 June 2002 the remains of Milan Hodža were reburied in the National Cemetery in Martin, in his native Slovakia.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2011495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011495", "title": "Mayor of Kauai", "text": "Mayor of Kauai\n\nThe Mayor of Kauai is the chief executive officer of the County of Kauai in the state of Hawaii. He or she has municipal jurisdiction over the islands of Kauai and Ni’ihau. Derek Kawakami was elected on November 6, 2018 as the mayor of Kauai over JoAnn A. Yukimura, who was Kauai's mayor from 1988 to 1992, with 15,857 votes out of 40,323 registered voters in the County of Kauai. The Mayor of Kauai is the successor of the Royal Governors of Kauai of the Kingdom of Hawaii.\n\nThe most recent previous mayor of Kauai, Bryan J. Baptiste, served from 2002 until his death on June 22, 2008. Bill \"Kaipo\" Asing was sworn as acting mayor on July 17, 2008, until a special election could be held to fill the remaining two years of Baptiste's term.\n\nBernard Carvalho was elected on November 4, 2008 to complete the remaining two years of Baptiste's unexpired term.\n\n"}
{"id": "2011503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011503", "title": "Steady state (biochemistry)", "text": "Steady state (biochemistry)\n\nIn biochemistry, steady state refers to the maintenance of constant internal concentrations of molecules and ions in the cells and organs of living systems. Living organisms remain at a dynamic steady state where their internal composition at both cellular and gross levels are relatively constant, but different from equilibrium concentrations. A continuous flux of mass and energy results in the constant synthesis and breakdown of molecules via chemical reactions of biochemical pathways. Essentially, steady state can be thought of as homeostasis at a cellular level.\n\nMetabolic regulation achieves a balance between the rate of input of a substrate and the rate that it is degraded or converted, and thus maintains steady state. The rate of metabolic flow, or flux, is variable and subject to metabolic demands. However, in a metabolic pathway, steady state is maintained by balancing the rate of substrate provided by a previous step and the rate that the substrate is converted into product, keeping substrate concentration relatively constant.\n\nThermodynamically speaking, living organisms are open systems, meaning that they constantly exchange matter and energy with their surroundings. A constant supply of energy is required for maintaining steady state, as maintaining a constant concentration of a molecule preserves internal order and thus is entropically unfavorable. When a cell dies and no longer utilizes energy, its internal composition will proceed toward equilibrium with its surroundings.\n\nIn some occurrences, it is necessary for cells to adjust their internal composition in order to reach a new steady state. Cell differentiation, for example, requires specific protein regulation that allows the differentiating cell to meet new metabolic requirements.\n\nThe concentration of ATP must be kept above equilibrium level so that the rates of ATP-dependent biochemical reactions meet metabolic demands. A decrease in ATP will result in a decreased saturation of enzymes that use ATP as substrate, and thus a decreased reaction rate. The concentration of ATP is also kept higher than that of AMP, and a decrease in the ATP/AMP ratio triggers AMPK to activate cellular processes that will return ATP and AMP concentrations to steady state.\n\nIn one step of the glycolysis pathway catalyzed by PFK-1, the equilibrium constant of reaction is approximately 1000, but the steady state concentration of products (fructose-1,6-bisphosphate and ADP) over reactants (fructose-6-phosphate and ATP) is only 0.1, indicating that the ratio of ATP to AMP remains in a steady state significantly above equilibrium concentration. Regulation of PFK-1 maintains ATP levels above equilibrium.\n\nIn the cytoplasm of hepatocytes, the steady state ratio of NADP+ to NADPH is approximately 0.1 while that of NAD+ to NADH is approximately 1000, favoring NADPH as the main reducing agent and NAD+ as the main oxidizing agent in chemical reactions.\n\nBlood glucose levels are maintained at a steady state concentration by balancing the rate of entry of glucose into the blood stream (i.e. by ingestion or released from cells) and the rate of glucose uptake by body tissues. Changes in the rate of input will be met with a change in consumption, and vice versa, so that blood glucose concentration is held at about 5 mM in humans. A change in blood glucose levels triggers the release of insulin or glucagon, which stimulates the liver to release glucose into the bloodstream or take up glucose from the bloodstream in order to return glucose levels to steady state. Pancreatic beta cells, for example, increase oxidative metabolism as a result of a rise in blood glucose concentration, triggering secretion of insulin. Glucose levels in the brain are also maintained at steady state, and glucose delivery to the brain relies on the balance between the flux of the blood brain barrier and uptake by brain cells. In teleosts, a drop of blood glucose levels below that of steady state decreases the intracellular-extracellular gradient in the bloodstream, limiting glucose metabolism in red blood cells.\n\nBlood lactate levels are also maintained at steady state. At rest or low levels of exercise, the rate of lactate production in muscle cells and consumption in muscle or blood cells allows lactate to remain in the body at a certain steady state concentration. If a higher level of exercise is sustained, however, blood lactose levels will increase before becoming constant, indicating that a new steady state of elevated concentration has been reached. Maximal lactate steady state (MLSS) refers to the maximum constant concentration of lactase reached during sustained high-activity.\n\nMetabolic regulation of nitrogen-containing molecules, such as amino acids, is also kept at steady state. The amino acid pool, which describes the level of amino acids in the body, is maintained at a relatively constant concentration by balancing the rate of input (i.e. from dietary protein ingestion, production of metabolic intermediates) and rate of depletion (i.e. from formation of body proteins, conversion to energy-storage molecules). Amino acid concentration in lymph node cells, for example, is kept at steady state with active transport as the primary source of entry, and diffusion as the source of efflux.\n\nOne main function of plasma and cell membranes is to maintain asymmetric concentrations of inorganic ions in order to maintain an ionic steady state different from electrochemical equilibrium. In other words, there is a differential distribution of ions on either side of the cell membrane - that is, the amount of ions on either side is not equal and therefore a charge separation exists. However, ions move across the cell membrane such that a constant resting membrane potential is achieved; this is ionic steady state. In the pump-leak model of cellular ion homeostasis, energy is utilized to actively transport ions against their electrochemical gradient. The maintenance of this steady state gradient, in turn, is used to do electrical and chemical work, when it is dissipated though the passive movement of ions across the membrane.\n\nIn cardiac muscle, ATP is used to actively transport sodium ions out of the cell through a membrane ATPase. Electrical excitation of the cell results in an influx of sodium ions into the cell, temporarily depolarizing the cell. To restore the steady state electrochemical gradient, ATPase removes sodium ions and restores potassium ions in the cell. When an elevated heart rate is sustained, causing more depolarizations, sodium levels in the cell increase until becoming constant, indicating that a new steady state has been reached.\n"}
{"id": "2011504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011504", "title": "Morey's Piers", "text": "Morey's Piers\n\nMorey’s Piers & Beachfront Waterparks is a classic seaside amusement park located on The Wildwoods' boardwalk in Wildwood and North Wildwood, New Jersey. The park has been family owned and operated since 1969 and is currently run by 2nd generation Morey Brothers, Will and Jack. Morey’s Piers has over 100 rides and attractions. It includes three amusement piers and two beachfront waterparks.\n\nSurfside Pier is located at 26th Street in North Wildwood. It was the first of the three piers, opening in 1969 with a giant fiberglass slide that cost 25 cents to ride. The slide was closed at the end of the 2010 season and refurbished as a waterslide at the pier's water park. Surfside Pier includes the Zoom Phloom, AtmosFEAR, The Great Nor'easter, and Flitzer (removed 2018; replaced by Runaway Tram).\n\nMariner's Landing, located at Schellenger Avenue in Wildwood, is like a traditional amusement park, with classics like the Super Scooters, Teacups, Musik Express, Ignis Fatuus, Sea Serpent and the Giant Wheel, a tall Ferris wheel built by Vekoma, which opened in 1985. In the early mornings of the summer, breakfast can be eaten on the wheel. In June 2011, 11-year-old Abiah Jones died after falling from the Giant Wheel. Since then, a \"no single riders\" policy was created for when guests ride the ferris wheel to ensure the safety of the guests.\n\nAdventure Pier, located at Spencer Avenue, includes Grand Prix Raceway and the famous wooden coaster The Great White, the Skyscraper ride, a The Spring Shot ride, a Screamin' Swing, a Skycoaster, a maze, helicopter tours, and a boat tag game.\n\nOcean Oasis Water Park + Beach Club is on the beach behind Surfside Pier. It includes water slides, a lazy river, a hot tub with bar access and a kids area.\n\nBehind Mariner’s Landing is Raging Waters Water Park. It includes two unique kiddie play areas at Shipwreck Shoals and Camp KidTastrophe along with speed slides, a lazy river, Shotgun Falls and an activity pool full of challenges.\n\nIn 1969, Bill and Will Morey Sr. purchased two lots of boardwalk in North Wildwood at 25th and 26th streets. They called it Morey's Pier and opened that summer with a giant fiberglass slide called the Wipe Out. Guests paid 25 cents to slide down the ride in burlap sacks.\n\nThe Moreys extended their operation in 1976 when they purchased Marine Pier and renamed it Mariner’s Landing. At the time of purchase, the pier was fire-damaged and seven of the existing 12 rides on the pier had to be thrown away. However, the pier kept growing. In 1984, the Moreys purchased the Sea Serpent roller coaster.\n\nIn 1985, waterslides were installed on Mariner’s Landing and called Raging Waters waterpark. The waterpark opened a day early due to the ocean pollution. The project was masterminded by designer and architect Fred Langford. A second Raging Waters was built on Surfside Pier in 1988. This park was overhauled and relaunched as Ocean Oasis Water Park + Beach Club in 2006 and features a different version of Rocket Raft Run and various new waterslides.\n\nFun Pier was purchased and renamed Wild Wheels. The Morey's described it as an \"interactive amusement center\" with active participation by customers. This pier was later relaunched as Adventure Pier and became home to The Great White, the Skyscraper ride, a The Spring Shot ride, a Screamin' Swing, a Skycoaster, a maze, a boat tag game, batting cages, and the Grand Prix Raceway.\n\nHunt's Pier was also eventually purchased for more rides and attractions. Hunt's Pier went defunct in 1990 and was then used for maintenance, storage, and tram-car parking. The Golden Nugget remained on Hunt's Pier until 2008 when it was purchased by Knoebels' Amusement Resort and restored in their park as the Black Diamond. Hopefully, Morey’s would plan to use the pier for more thrilling rides and attractions as a major fourth pier to the line-up...\n\nIn August 1995, a 36-year-old employee was picking up trash in a fenced area beneath the ride and was struck in the head by a passenger's foot and killed. Shortly after this accident, Morey's Piers employed a new restricted section which prevents anyone underneath the ride while it is in motion.\n\nIn June 1998, the Sea Serpent roller coaster suffered its first ever accident, injuring 14 of the 23 riders on board, some of whom were stranded upside down. According to Will Morey, chief executive officer of the Morey Organization, the accident was thought to have been due to a wheel coming off a rear axle, causing the coaster train to jerk to a stop midway through the ride, as it was looping backwards.\n\nOn Friday June 3, 2011, 11-year-old Abiah Jones, a student at PleasanTech Academy Charter School in Pleasantville, New Jersey, died after falling between 100 and 150 feet from the Giant Wheel. She fell at about 12:30 p.m. and was pronounced dead at 1:14 p.m. at the Cape Regional Medical Center.\n\nHer parents, Twanda and Byron Jones, subsequently filed a lawsuit against the ride's operator.\n\nInvestigators were unable to determine how the girl, who was riding alone, got out of the gondola. A report by the state Department of Community Affairs found the ride's restraints to be working properly and suggested that to get out of the car, a passenger probably would have had to stand. The report recommended that children be forbidden from riding the Ferris wheel alone.\n\nOn August 20, 2011, five people were injured as a result of the center mast on the Sea Dragon breaking. One person was sent to the hospital with non life-threatening injuries, while four others had minor injuries that were treated at the scene of the accident. The spokeswoman for Morey's Piers and Beachfront Waterparks did not answer questions from the media regarding the incident.\n\nFor the 2012 season, the Sea Dragon has been replaced with a newer model of the same ride called Riptide.\n\nOn July 2, 2010, a child was severely injured on the ride when he had a seizure, which caused him to strike his head on the car he was riding in, making him completely unconscious. Shortly after, the Morey's Piers management forbade guests to ride Zoom Phloom alone. \n\n"}
{"id": "2011506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011506", "title": "Southampton Civic Centre", "text": "Southampton Civic Centre\n\nThe Civic Centre is a municipal building located in the Cultural Quarter area within the city of Southampton. It comprises offices occupied by Southampton City Council, the SeaCity Museum, the Guildhall, the Southampton City Art Gallery, and the city library. It was designed by the English architect Ernest Berry Webber in the Classical style in 1929 and constructed over a ten year period. It was completed in 1939. Pevsner's \"Hampshire: South\" describes it as \"the most ambitious civic building erected in the provinces in the interwar years\". It was listed as a Grade II* listed building in 1980.\n\nSince the 1870s, there was debate in the council over the housing of the borough offices: departments were scattered around the town, making co-ordination and timely response fairly difficult, with the old Audit House opposite Holyrood Church being totally inadequate. After extensive discussions about the proposed civic centre, Herbert Austin-Hall was appointed to assess a design competition for the new building. Following the competition, Ernest Berry Webber was chosen to design the centre in the Classical style with a budget of just under £400,000. The foundation stone was laid by the Duke of York on 1 July 1930.\n\nThe first block to be opened, known as the south wing, contained the municipal offices. Some of the material dug out during the construction of the south wing was used to fill in an old reservoir on Southampton Common as part of the process of converting it into a paddling pool. It was opened by the Duke of York, and his wife, the Duchess of York, on 8 November 1932. \n\nThe second block, known as the west wing, contained the law courts and the police headquarters. It also contained \"Kimber's Tower\", which is high and named after Sir Sidney Kimber, who had chaired the civic centre development committee. The block was opened by Viscount Sankey, the Lord Chancellor, on 3 November 1933. It was decided that during the opening ceremony and every four hours thereafter the bells should sound the Westminster Quarters followed by the first verse of the hymn \"Our God, Our Help in Ages Past\". \n\nThe third block, known as the east wing, contained Southampton Guildhall. Work on the Guildhall (the east wing) began in March 1934. The Guildhall was intended as a social location for municipal functions. The Guildhall was opened by Earl of Derby on 13 February 1937.\n\nThe fourth block, known as the north wing, contained Southampton City Art Gallery and Southampton Central Library. This began later than the others, and late alterations to the designs were required to incorporate a public library, that was not originally planned for. The expansion of this wing led to an increase in costs for the project, but the budget increase was approved by Parliament. This was opened in 1939.\n\nDuring the Southampton Blitz, Hermann Göring, head of the \"Luftwaffe\", targeted the Civic Centre. He remarked that the building appeared like a \"piece of cake\" from the air, and that he was going to \"cut himself a slice\". During a raid in November 1940 twelve bombs were dropped, including a direct hit on the Civic Centre with a 500lb high explosive. The bomb penetrated to the lower floors of the art gallery killing 35 people, including 15 children, who were having an art lesson in the basement.\n\nThe law courts vacated the west wing to move to a larger complex in The Avenue in 1999 while the police moved out of the west wing to new facilities in Southern Road in 2011. In 2012 the SeaCity Museum moved into the refurbished west wing complete with a modern pavilion extension.\n\n"}
{"id": "2011519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011519", "title": "Grime vs. Grandeur", "text": "Grime vs. Grandeur\n\nGrime vs. Grandeur is the fourth album by Swedish power metal band Falconer, and the last to feature vocalist Kristoffer Göbel.\n\nAll songs written by Stefan Weinerhall. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2011528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011528", "title": "Hewell Grange", "text": "Hewell Grange\n\nHewell Grange is a country house in Tardebigge, Worcestershire, England. \"One of the most important late 19th century country houses in England\", the mansion was built in 1884-91 by George Frederick Bodley and Thomas Garner for the Earl of Plymouth. Constructed in the Jacobethan style, it was \"perhaps the last Victorian prodigy house.\" It is a Grade II* listed building. The park had been developed round an earlier house on the site by both Capability Brown and Humphry Repton and is on the National Register of Historic Parks and Gardens. The lake is a Site of Special Scientific Interest(SSSI).\n\nThe land was originally part of the estates of Bordesley Abbey. At the Dissolution of the Monasteries the property passed to Thomas Windsor Hickman.\n\nThe estate remained a seat of the Windsor-Clive family (who were made Earls of Plymouth) until it was sold to the state in the 20th century. There are several ruins of earlier houses on the estate, and a large number of listed buildings, structures and statues.\n\nRobert Windsor-Clive (1857–1923) commissioned Bodley and Garner to build the current house in 1884–91.\nThe House is of Cheshire Red Sandstone with a tile roof. It is of an Elizabethan E-plan, modelled on Montacute House, Somerset. The exterior is Jacobethan, of three storeys, the interior Italianate. The house is dominated by the massive Great Hall, comprising half the total space of the house. The elaborate decoration is largely \"well-preserved.\" The Chapel in the porch contains carving by Detmar Blow.\n\nThe house was used as a Borstal from 1946 to 1991, when it became HM Prison Hewell Grange, a Category D open prison.\n\nAt the former North West entrance to the estate on the B4096 are two Grade II listed lodge houses, dating back to the 1830s. They were designed in neo classical style with Doric columns by Thomas Cundy. These are now private residences, separate to the prison.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2011531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011531", "title": "Mayor of Maui County", "text": "Mayor of Maui County\n\nThe Mayor of Maui County is the chief executive officer of the County of Maui in the state of Hawaii. He or she has municipal jurisdiction over the islands of Kahoolawe, Lanai, Maui and Molokai. The Mayor of Maui County is the successor of the Royal Governor of Maui of the Kingdom of Hawaii.\n\nThe current mayor of Maui County is former Maui County Council member Michael Victorino, who was first elected in November 2018. He was preceded by Alan Arakawa, who was first elected in November 2003, then voted out of office in 2006, and re-elected in 2010. Prominent former mayors include Linda Lingle, the sixth governor of Hawaii and first woman governor, who was mayor from 1991 to 1999.\n"}
{"id": "2011533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011533", "title": "Dios (album)", "text": "Dios (album)\n\ndios is an album by dios Malos released by Startime International in 2004. This album was chosen as one of Amazon.com's Top 100 Editor's Picks of 2005 (#84).\n\n"}
{"id": "2011538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011538", "title": "Mayor of Hawaii County", "text": "Mayor of Hawaii County\n\nThe Mayor of Hawaii is the chief executive officer of the County of Hawaii in the state of Hawaii. He or she has municipal jurisdiction over the Big Island of Hawaii. The current mayor is Harry Kim. The Mayor of Hawaii County is the successor of the Royal Governors of Hawaii Island of the Kingdom of Hawaii.\n\nHawaii County began electing a mayor in 1968 when the present form of charter government was instituted. For most of the 20th century elected members of the Board of Supervisors, precursor to the Hawaii County Council, chose the chairman, and that chairman was essentially the chief operating officer of Hawaii County. That changed in 1964 a year after Act 73 of the 1963 Legislature which enabled counties to draft their own charters. Former Honolulu deputy County Corporation Counsel Shunichi Kimura was elected the last County Chairman in 1964 and the County elected its first mayor in 1968. Bruce McCall (1976), Megumi Kon (1984) and Larry Tanimoto (1990) all filled out the last few months of their predecessor's terms, in the case of Tanimoto, for Bernard Akana, who died of cancer less than two years into his term. Lorraine Inouye then won a special election to serve out Akana's last two years.\n"}
{"id": "2011548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011548", "title": "Dude, Where's My Ranch?", "text": "Dude, Where's My Ranch?\n\n\"Dude, Where's My Ranch?\" is the eighteenth episode of \"The Simpsons\"<nowiki>'</nowiki> fourteenth season. It originally aired on the Fox network in the United States on April 27, 2003. It was written by Ian Maxtone-Graham and was the first episode directed by Chris Clements.\n\nAt Christmas time, the Simpsons go caroling around Springfield before the Blue Haired Lawyer orders them to stop, citing copyright infringement. In response, Homer tries to write his own carol but when Ned Flanders tries to help, he soon creates an anti-Flanders song titled \"Everybody Hates Ned Flanders\". The song becomes so popular that the family leaves for a dude ranch. At the ranch, Lisa meets a cowhand named Luke Stetson, with whom she begins to bond. Meanwhile, Homer and Bart meet a tribe of Native Americans who want a beaver dam removed so they can reclaim their land. They are confronted by the beavers while attempting to dismantle the dam and eventually destroy it after luring the beavers away.\n\nLisa overhears Luke expressing his love to a girl named Clara over the phone. When a jealous Lisa encounters her, she tricks her into going the wrong way on the path to a dance. Lisa finds out that Clara is Luke's sister and runs to the beaver dam with Bart. They find Clara standing on a rock in the middle of a torrential river. Bart taunts some beavers and scales a tree; the beavers chew through the tree, causing it to fall and create a bridge that Clara can cross. When Lisa comes clean about what happened to Clara, Luke is offended and leaves her. As the Simpsons return to Springfield, they hear a song entitled \"The Moe Szyslak Connection\" on the radio, sung by Moe Szyslak, and turn around to spend another week at the ranch.\n\nOn November 2, 2004, the episode was released in the United States on a DVD collection titled \"The Simpsons Christmas 2\", along with the season twelve episodes \"Homer vs. Dignity\" and \"Skinner's Sense of Snow\" and the season fifteen episode \"'Tis the Fifteenth Season\". \n\nReviewing the DVD, Brian James of PopMatters wrote that \"Dude, Where's My Ranch?\" displays \"the series’ nefarious habit of using the first third of the episode as a clearinghouse for disconnected jokes before actually beginning the plot, a blight made that much more glaring here since the only connection to Christmas comes early with the rest not even taking place in winter.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2011555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011555", "title": "Deterring Democracy", "text": "Deterring Democracy\n\nDeterring Democracy is a book published in 1991 by Noam Chomsky, which explores the differences between the humanitarian rhetoric and imperialistic reality of United States foreign policy and how it affects various countries around the world.\n\nIn the book, Chomsky explores the idea that the US is the only remaining world superpower that works to maintain its dominance, even ruthlessly employing violence such as outright invasions and overthrowing governments pursuing independent economic policies. He also discusses the large difference between public opinion on the Cold War, establishment American educated opinion and reality.\n\nThe book also contains criticism aimed at the Soviet Union and other communist states, but its major point centres on the fact that although the United States claimed to support freedom in the Cold War, it still supported authoritarian regimes. The conclusion that Chomsky comes to is that, despite U.S claims of supporting freedom, their actual aim was maintaining dominance over resources and geopolitical power.\n\nThe full text of the book is available online.\n\n"}
{"id": "2011558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011558", "title": "A Star Is Burns", "text": "A Star Is Burns\n\n\"A Star Is Burns\" is the eighteenth episode of \"The Simpsons\"<nowiki>'</nowiki> sixth season. It first aired on the Fox network in the United States on March 5, 1995. In the episode, Springfield decides to hold a film festival, and famed critic Jay Sherman is invited to be a judge.\n\nThe story involves a crossover with the animated series \"The Critic\". Jay Sherman was the main character on the show. \"The Critic\" was created by Al Jean and Mike Reiss, who had previously written for \"The Simpsons\" but left following the fourth season, and produced by James L. Brooks, who was also a producer for \"The Simpsons\". The show had premiered on the American Broadcasting Company (ABC) network in January 1994 but was canceled despite positive critical reception. The series was switched over to Fox, and put in the timeslot directly after \"The Simpsons\". Brooks pitched a crossover episode as a way to promote \"The Critic\" and decided that a film festival would be a good way to introduce Sherman.\n\nMatt Groening, creator of \"The Simpsons\" has heavily criticized this episode, feeling that it was just an advertisement for \"The Critic\", and that people would incorrectly associate the show with him. When he was unsuccessful in getting the program pulled, he had his name removed from the credits and went public with his concerns, openly criticizing James L. Brooks.\n\nThe episode was directed by Susie Dietter and was the first episode to be written by Ken Keeler. Jon Lovitz, the star of \"The Critic\", guest stars as Jay Sherman, while Maurice LaMarche (who was also a regular on \"The Critic\") has a few minor roles. The episode received mixed reviews from critics, many of whom felt the crossover was out of place on the show, although Barney's film festival entry was well received.\n\nIn response to Springfield being named the least cultural city in the United States, a town meeting is held to decide a course of action, where Marge proposes that Springfield host a film festival showcasing films made by the townspeople. Marge is made the head of the festival's judging panel, and invites New York film critic Jay Sherman to be a special guest critic. Jay's presence makes Homer feel inadequate, so he convinces Marge to put him on the judging panel.\n\nThe film festival commences, and many of the townspeople, including Mr. Burns and Hans Moleman, enter films. Festival attendees are particularly touched by Barney Gumble's artistic introspective film about alcoholism, titled \"Pukahontas\", which Marge and Jay foresee to be the eventual winner. Burns' film, directed by Steven Spielberg's non-union Mexican counterpart \"Señor Spielbergo\", is \"A Burns for All Seasons\", a big-budget pastiche of famous Hollywood productions intended to glorify him; the film is rejected by the audience. He bribes two of the judges, Krusty the Clown and Mayor Quimby, to vote for it, leading to a deadlock. Left with the tie-breaking vote, Homer enthusiastically votes for Hans' aptly-named \"Man Getting Hit by Football\", but Marge and Jay convince him to reconsider and \"Pukahontas\" is named the winner. Barney declares that his victory has inspired him to give up drinking, but immediately forgets his promise when Quimby reveals his prize to be a lifetime supply of Duff Beer.\n\nSherman prepares to return to New York, and the Simpsons thank him for his help in making the festival a success. Marge suggests that Mr. Burns has learned a lesson that you cannot bribe everyone. Contrary to her statement, he submits \"A Burns for All Seasons\" to the Academy Awards; due to his bribing of everyone in Hollywood, he is nominated an Oscar for Best Actor. At the ceremony, the winner is announced to be George C. Scott, based on his performance in a remake of \"Man Getting Hit by Football\", angering Burns further.\n\n\"The Critic\" was a short-lived animated series that revolved around the life of movie critic Jay Sherman. It was created by Al Jean and Mike Reiss, who had previously written for \"The Simpsons\" but left after the fourth season, and executive produced by James L. Brooks. Jon Lovitz, who had previously guest starred in several episodes of \"The Simpsons\", starred as Jay Sherman, and it also featured the voices of \"The Simpsons\" regulars Nancy Cartwright, Doris Grau, and Russi Taylor. It was first broadcast on ABC in January 1994, and was well received by critics. However, the series did not catch on with viewers and it was put on hiatus after six weeks. It returned in June 1994 and completed airing its initial production run.\n\nFor the second season of \"The Critic\", James L. Brooks cut a deal with the Fox network to have the series switch over. The episode was pitched by Brooks, who had wanted a crossover that would help launch \"The Critic\" on Fox, and he thought having a film festival in Springfield would be a good way to introduce Sherman. After Brooks pitched the episode, the script was written by Ken Keeler. Although David Mirkin was executive producer for most of the sixth season, the episode was executive produced by Al Jean and Mike Reiss. Jay Sherman's appearance was Simpsonized: he was made yellow and given an overbite.\n\nThe episode contains a meta-reference to the fact that it is a crossover episode in a conversation Bart has with Sherman:\n\nThe joke was pitched by Al Jean.\n\nAlongside Jon Lovitz, the episode guest stars Maurice LaMarche, a regular on \"The Critic\", who voices George C. Scott as well as Jay Sherman's belch. Phil Hartman also makes a brief appearance as an actor resembling Charlton Heston portraying Judah Ben-Hur in Mr. Burns' film. Rainier Wolfcastle's line, \"on closer inspection, these are loafers\", was ad-libbed by Dan Castellaneta who was providing the voice of the character on a temporary track. It was later re-recorded by Wolfcastle's normal voice actor, Harry Shearer.\n\nThe Imperial March from \"The Empire Strikes Back\" is played as Mr. Burns is introduced. The song the \"Rappin' Rabbis\" play in the opening moments of the episode is a parody of \"U Can't Touch This\" by MC Hammer. The opening of Bart's film \"The Eternal Struggle\" is a reference to The Amazing Criswell's narration in \"Plan 9 from Outer Space\". Barney's film contains references to \"Koyaanisqatsi\", and the music of the film, which was composed by Philip Glass. Barney's film also features musical selections from the aria \"Un bel di vedremo\" from Act II, pt. 1 of Puccini's opera \"Madama Butterfly\".\n\nIn its original broadcast, \"A Star Is Burns\" finished 57th in the ratings for the week of February 27 to March 5, 1995. The episode was the third highest rated show on the Fox network that week, beaten only by \"Melrose Place\" and \"Beverly Hills, 90210\". \"The Critic\", which premiered on Fox just after this episode, finished 64th. On March 12, 2002, the episode was released in the United States on a DVD collection titled \"The Simpsons Film Festival\", along with the season eleven episode \"Beyond Blunderdome\", the season four episode \"\", and the season seven episode \"22 Short Films About Springfield\".\n\nThe authors of the book \"I Can't Believe It's a Bigger and Better Updated Unofficial Simpsons Guide\", Warren Martyn and Adrian Wood, wrote, \"Jay Sherman perhaps proves here, even more so than in \"The Critic\", just why that show failed. He's too flawed to be likeable.\" They added, \"Barney's film is magnificent, but it's easy to see why Homer wants Hans Moleman to be the winner.\" \n\nAdam Finley of TV Squad wrote, \"the episode, even if I didn't care for it as a whole, does have moments that are still very Simpson-y, and still very funny. Jay's appearance, however, casts a shadow over everything that tends to leave a bad taste in my mouth.\" \n\nTodd Gilchrist of IGN listed Barney's film as one of the best moments of the sixth season.\n\n\"The A.V. Club\" named Hans Moleman's line, \"I was saying 'Boo-urns'\", and Mr. Burns' line, \"Then get me his non-union, Mexican equivalent!\", as two quotations from \"The Simpsons\" that can be used in everyday situations. \n\nIGN ranked Jon Lovitz as the eighth best guest star in the show's history.\n\nMatt Groening, creator of \"The Simpsons\", was critical of the episode when it first released. He felt that the crossover was a thirty-minute advertisement and blamed James L. Brooks, calling it an attempt to get attention for one of his unsuccessful shows. After he was unable to get the episode pulled, he decided to go public with his concerns shortly before the episode aired. He stated that his reasons for doing so were that he hoped Brooks would have a change of heart and pull the episode, and that \"articles began to appear in several newspapers around the country saying that [Groening] created <nowiki>'</nowiki>\"The Critic\".'\" Groening had his name removed from the credits, so he does not receive his normal \"created by\" and \"developed by\" credits that air at the end of the opening sequence.\n\nIn response, James L. Brooks said \"I am furious with Matt, he's been going to everybody who wears a suit at Fox and complaining about this. When he voiced his concerns about how to draw \"The Critic\" into the Simpsons' universe he was right and we agreed to his changes. Certainly he's allowed his opinion, but airing this publicly in the press is going too far. [...] He is a gifted, adorable, cuddly ingrate. But his behavior right now is rotten.\"\n\nAl Jean and Mike Reiss, creators of \"The Critic\", had previously worked on \"The Simpsons\" and had executive produced the third and fourth seasons. Brooks said, \"for years, Al and Mike were two guys who worked their hearts out on this show, staying up until 4 in the morning to get it right. The point is, Matt's name has been on Mike's and Al's scripts and he has taken plenty of credit for a lot of their great work. In fact, he is the direct beneficiary of their work. \"The Critic\" is their shot and he should be giving them his support.\" Reiss stated that he was a \"little upset\" by Groening's actions and that \"this taints everything at the last minute. [...] This episode doesn't say 'Watch \"The Critic\" all over it.\" Jean added \"What bothers me about all of this, is that now people may get the impression that this \"Simpsons\" episode is less than good. It stands on its own even if \"The Critic\" never existed.\"\n\nGroening was criticized for going public with his complaints. Ray Richmond of the \"Los Angeles Daily News\" wrote \"who's right? Well, Groening is probably correct in judging this an integrity issue. It's a fairly tacky bit of promotion, the kind generally beneath \"The Simpsons\". But it's also true that little is accomplished by taking a gripe like this public. Quietly erasing his name from the credits would have been sufficient. [...] I admire the man's standing up for his creative rights. But I question the way he's gone about it.\"\n\nAs a result, Groening was absent from the episode's commentary for \"The Complete Sixth Season\" DVD boxset.\n\nIn the end, \"The Critic\" was short-lived, broadcasting ten episodes on Fox before its cancellation. A total of only 23 episodes were produced, and it returned briefly in 2000 with a series of ten internet broadcast webisodes. The series has since developed a cult following thanks to reruns on Comedy Central and its complete series release on DVD.\n\nJay Sherman has since become an infrequently recurring character on \"The Simpsons\", appearing in speaking roles in \"Hurricane Neddy\" and \"The Ziff Who Came to Dinner.\"\n\nIdiomatic use of the phrase \"say the quiet part loud\" to mean to reveal an opinion usually expected to be kept from the public, derived from Krusty's line \"I said the quiet part loud and the loud part quiet\" in the episode, gained wide currency in the 2010s, chiefly in political discourse.\n\n"}
{"id": "2011559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011559", "title": "Day at the Fair", "text": "Day at the Fair\n\nDay at the Fair were a pop punk band from Jefferson, New Jersey. They were signed to Rushmore Records. Currently working with Broken Heart Records.\n\nEmerging from the remnants of the two now defunct bands Lanemeyer and Humble Beginnings, Day at the Fair started as a half-electric, half-acoustic recording project. Former Drive-Thru Records employee and main lyricist of the band Chris Barker joined forces with Rob Heiner in 2000, to create the music that would three years later be released on the band's debut CD \"No Lights on Weldon\" for Small Records. \"No Lights on Weldon\" contained a Lanemeyer cover, Another Lonely Winter. Their line-up was completed by Mike Carrol on guitar and Frank Abruzzo on drums, while Rob played bass.\n\nDuring the two and a half-year recording process, Chris commuted back and forth between California and New Jersey (a subject matter that later appeared in several songs of his, including the single \"Eastern Homes and Western Hearts\"), until finally settling for the east coast. A Day at the Fair was now able to go on tour full-time.\n\nOn the Canadian Warped Tour, A Day at the Fair caught the attention of the chairman of Springman Records, who signed them right away. Simultaneously, the band dropped the \"A\" in their name, Mike left and Frank was replaced by Stephen Weir. Their second CD \"The Prelude EP\" was released in March 2004.\n\nJoined by Todd Maisano, they became the third band to be signed by Rushmore Records later that year, given Chris' earlier connections with Drive-Thru Records. After contributing a track to the Drive-Thru/Rushmore Christmas compilation \"Happy Holidays from Drive-Thru Records\", the band released their third album \"The Rocking Chair Years\" in May 2005.\n\nWhile on tour with Allister and Fenix*TX in November 2005, Maisano left the band in order to continue his studies of chemistry and working towards earning his degree. His replacement, Gary Bender, was announced on January 6, 2006 on the band's MySpace profile.\n\nA month later, the band announced the end of Day at the Fair as they had been known, with member changes and the promise of a new focus on the more melodic side of their music, as demonstrated in tracks such as \"Here Lies Our Holiday\" (as featured on \"Happy Holidays from Drive-Thru Records\") or \"Monday Morning\" (from \"The Rocking Chair Years\"). They soon began writing and recording an acoustic EP.\n\nOn February 17, 2006 Day at the Fair announced what Barker describes as \"not a break up, not a hiatus, just a big change...\" in reference to the departure of Gary Bender, Rob Heiner and Steve Weir.\n\nIn March 2006, The new lineup of the band embarked on what would be their last tour, with Kevin Sant'angelo replacing Gary Bender on bass, Mike Cipriano replacing Steve Weir on drums and Heiner rejoining for the last 4 shows of the tour. They dropped off the last 2 weeks of that tour and played their last show at Maxwells in Hoboken,NJ in June 2006.\n\nAs of July 2, 2006, the band's website no longer functions, and their purevolume page has a message from Barker stating that the band is, for all intents and purposes, no more. However, he hints at forthcoming projects that are in the works.\n\nUpon recent inspection of the band's Myspace profile, it appears that they have started playing local shows as Day at the Fair again. The reason for this as quoted by Barker is \"Not a comeback, But more like a grave you visit to bring flowers.\" Since the band's \"final\" shows in Netcong and Hoboken, they have played a few dates every year (in Northern New Jersey, until this year's show in Philadelphia). They have covered Lanemeyer songs and taken requests at these shows as a thank you to longtime fans.\n\nOne project that was started is Further North. Featuring Chris Barker on vocals and guitar, Steve Jaworski on guitar and vocals, Kevin Sant'Angelo on bass and Mike Cipriano on drums. This NJPP supergroup is Jettison and Day at the Fair combined. They have released songs for download on their Myspace page.\n\nFurther North has also failed to meet the expectations they set forth for themselves, shortly after adding John Castaldo from Bigwig onto bass and Rob Heiner on guitar.\n\nDay at the Fair is currently in the studio recording a follow-up to The Rocking Chair Years to be released on Broken Heart Records.\n\nThe Rocking Chair Years was re-released on Vinyl by Broken Heart Records in the summer of 2013. The double LP featured all of the B-Sides recorded during The Rocking Chair Years sessions including \"First Two Moons, Kira Doesn't Care About Anything\" as well as the lost tracks from the now out of print \"Prelude EP\" including \"Homesick Angels.\" Inside the packaging was a letter written from the band in regards to recording one last record entitled 'The Epilogue'.\n\n2014: Day at the Fair, along with new drummer Dave Patino, entered the studio with producer Rob Freeman (of Hidden in Plain View fame) to record their first single in nine years titled \"The Brightening. \" The single was released digitally on iTunes, Bandcamp and Amazon on February 25, 2014. Following a series of interviews to promote the single, the band stated that a new record was in the works. The band has played more shows in 2014 then they have since 2006.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2011566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011566", "title": "Serbs of Bosnia and Herzegovina", "text": "Serbs of Bosnia and Herzegovina\n\nThe Serbs of Bosnia and Herzegovina () are one of the three constitutive nations (State-forming nations) of the country, predominantly residing in the political-territorial entity of Republika Srpska.\n\nIn the other entity, Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbs form the majority in Drvar, Glamoč, Bosansko Grahovo and Bosanski Petrovac. They are frequently referred to as Bosnian Serbs () in English, regardless of whether they are from Bosnia or Herzegovina.\n\nThey are also known by regional names such as \"Krajišnici\" (\"frontiersmen\" of Bosanska Krajina), \"Semberci\" (Semberians), \"Bosanci\" (Bosnians), \"Birčani (\"Bircians\"), Romanijci (\"Romanijans\"), Posavci\" (Posavians), \"Hercegovci\" (Herzegovinians). Serbs have a long and continuous history of inhabiting the present-day territory of Bosnia & Herzegovina, and a long history of statehood in this territory.\n\nFrom the 15th to the 19th century, Orthodox Serbs in modern-day Bosnia and Herzegovina were often persecuted under the Ottoman Empire. In the 20th century, persecution by Austria-Hungary, WWII genocide, political turmoil and poor economic conditions caused more to emigrate. In the 1990s, many Bosnian Serbs moved to Serbia proper and Montenegro.\n\nHaving lived throughout much of Bosnia-Herzegovina prior to the Bosnian War, the majority now live in the Republika Srpska. According to the report by the Bosnia and Herzegovina statistics office, on the census of 2013 there were 1,086,733 Serbs living in Bosnia and Herzegovina.\n\nSerbs settled the Balkans in the 7th century, and according to \"De Administrando Imperio\" (ca. 960), they settled an area near Thessaloniki and from there they settled part of today's Bosnia and Herzegovina. They inhabited and ruled \"Serbia\", which included \"Bosnia\" (with two inhabited cities; Kotor and Desnik), and \"Rascia\", and the maritime principalities of Travunija, Zahumlje and Paganija, the first two having been divided roughly at the Neretva river (including what is today Herzegovina). The population's Serbian ethnic identity remains a matter of dispute and some historians think that it rather indicates political situation at the time. \n\nSerbia was at the time ruled by the Vlastimirović dynasty. The progenitor, according to Porphyrogenitos, was the prince that led the Serbs to the Balkans during the reign of Heraclius (r. 610–641) The author gives the early genealogy: \"As the Serb Prince who fled to Emperor Heraclius\" in the time \"when Bulgaria was under the Rhōmaíōn\" (thus, before the establishment of Bulgaria in 680), \"by succession, his son and later descendents of the family ruled as princes. After some years, Višeslav is born, and from him Radoslav, and from him Prosigoj, and from him Vlastimir.\" The time and circumstances of the first three rulers are largely unknown. It is hypothesized that &Višeslav ruled around 780, but it is unclear when Radoslav and Prosigoj would have ruled. When the Serbs were mentioned in 822 in the \"Royal Frankish Annals\" (\"the Serbs, who control the greater part of Dalmatia\"; \"ad Sorabos, quae natio magnam Dalmatiae partem obtinere dicitur\") either Radoslav or Prosigoj ruled Serbia.\n\nDuring the rule of Mutimir (r. 851–891), the Serbs were Christianized. The Serbs were important Byzantine allies; the fleets of Zahumlje, Travunia and Konavli (Serbian \"Pomorje\") were sent to fight the Saracens who attacked the town of Ragusa (Dubrovnik) in 869, on the immediate request of Basil I, who was asked by the Ragusans for help. The territory of Bosnia was ruled by several Serbian dynasties, almost in the entire continuity of the Middle Ages. Bosnia or most of its present-day areas were ruled by Vlastimirovic, Vojislavljevic, Nemanjic, and Kotromanic dynasties. Prince Petar (r. 892–917), defeated Tišemir in Bosnia, annexing the valley of Bosna. Petar took over the Neretva, after which he seems to have come into conflict with Michael, a Bulgarian vassal ruling Zahumlje (with Travunia and Duklja).\nPrince Časlav Klonimirović (r. 927–960) managed to unite all mentioned Serb territories and established a state that encompassed the shores of the Adriatic Sea, the Sava river and the Morava valley as well as today's northern Albania. Časlav defeated the Magyars on the Drina river banks when protecting Bosnia, however, he was later captured and drowned in the Sava. After his death, Duklja emerged as the most powerful Serb polity, ruled by the Vojislavljević dynasty. Constantine Bodin (r. 1081–1101) installed his relative Stefan as Ban of Bosnia. Next, the Nemanjić dynasty acquired the rule of the Serbian lands. With the establishment of the autocephalous Serbian Church, Archbishop Sava founded the Metropolitanate of Zahumlje (1217–19).\n\nDalmatia, in the antique period, stretched from modern-day Dalmatia far into the hinterland, northwards close to the Sava river, and eastwards to the Ibar river. Višeslav's great-grandson Vlastimir began his rule around 830, and he is the oldest Serbian ruler of which substantial data exists. Vlastimir united the Serbian tribes in the vicinity The Serbs were alarmed, and most likely consolidated due to the spreading of the Bulgarian Khanate towards their borders (a rapid conquest of neighbouring Slavs), in self-defence, and possibly sought to cut off the Bulgar expansion to the south (Macedonia). After the victory over the Bulgars, Vlastimir's status rose, and according to Jr. Fine, he went on to expand to the west, taking Bosnia, and Herzegovina (Zahumlje)\n\nVlastimir married off his daughter to Krajina, the son of a local \"župan\" of Trebinje, Beloje, around 847–48. With this marriage, Vlastimir elevated the title of Krajina to \"archon\". The Belojević family was entitled the rule of Travunija. Krajina had a son with Vlastimir's daughter, named Hvalimir, who would later on succeed as \"župan\" of Travunia.\n\nVlastimir's elevation of Krajina, the practical independence of Travunija, shows, according to Živković, that Vlastimir was a Christian who understood the monarchal ideology that developed in the early Middle Ages.\n\nČaslav takes the throne in 927, with the death of the Bulgar Khan, and immediately puts himself under Byzantine overlordship. Eastern Christian (Orthodox) influence greatly increases and the two maintain close ties throughout his regn. He enlarged Serbia, uniting the tribes of Bosnia, Herzegovina, Old Serbia, Montenegro (incorporated Pagania, Zahumlje, Travunia, Konavle, Bosnia, Rascia into Serbia, \"ι Σερβλια\").\n\nHe took over regions previously held by Michael Višević, who disappears from sources in 925. The \"De Administrando Imperio\" describes his realm: the shores of the Adriatic Sea, the Sava river and the Morava valley as well as present-day northern Albania.\n\nFive decades later, Jovan Vladimir emerged as the \"Prince of Serbs\", ruling as a Bulgarian vassal from his seat at Bar. A possible descendant, Stefan Vojislav, led numerous revolts in the 1030s against the Byzantine Emperor (the overlord of the Serbian lands), successfully becoming independent by 1042. His realm included all lands earlier held by Časlav Klonimirović, and he would be eponymous to the second Serbian dynasty, the \"Vojislavljevići\", who were based in Duklja. The latter may possibly be a branch of the Vlastimirović dynasty. A cadet branch of the Vojislavljević dynasty, the \"Vukanovići\", emerged as the third dynasty in the 1090s. It was named for Grand Prince Vukan, who held \"Rascia\" (the hinterland) under his cousin, \"King of Duklja\" Constantine Bodin (ca. 1080–1090) in the beginning, but denounced any overlordship in 1091 when he had raided much of the Byzantine towns of Kosovo and Macedonia.\n\nThe Nemanjić dynasty, the most powerful dynasty of Serbia, is founded with the emergence of Stefan Nemanja, also a descendant of the same line.\n\nConstantin Bodin, who ruled from 1080 to 1101. Bodin fought Byzantium and Normans further to the south, and took the town of Dyrrachium. He established vassal states in Bosnia (under Stefan) and Raška (under Vukan and Marko), which recognized his supremacy. Vukan and Marko, the new princes of Raška were probably sons of the aforementioned Petrislav. Vukan (1083–1115) was the Grand Župan while Marko headed administration of a part of the land. The Byzantine Emperor Alexios later forced Vukan to acknowledge Byzantine suzerainty in 1094.\n\nNemanjic dynasty \"for the most part, ruled mainly Herzegovina, and occasionally all parts of Bosnia, and the regions of Podrinje, Srebrenica, Posavina, Usora and Soli \"Stefan\" Dragutin (Serbian: Стефан Драгутин; died 12 March 1316) was the King of Serbia from 1276–82 and King of Syrmia (Srem) from 1282 to 1316. He ruled Serbia which included large parts of present-day Bosnia, until his abdication in 1282, when he became ill. He continued to rule the royal domains of Syrmia as \"King of Syrmia\", and his younger brother succeeded him as ruler of Serbia. Later he became a monk and changed his name to Teokist.\n\nIn the list of Serbian saints, Stefan Dragutin is venerated on either 12 November or 30 October (Old Style and New Style dates). The first Serbian Emperor also temporarily conquered most of Bosnia and included it into his Empire.\n\nThe Kotromanić (Vuk's Cyrillic: Котроманић, Kotromanići/Котроманићи) were members of late medieval Bosnian noble and later royal dynasties. Rising to power in the middle of the 13th century as bans of Bosnia, with control over little more than the valley of the eponymous river, the Kotromanić rulers expanded their realm through a series of conquests to include nearly all of modern-day Bosnia and Herzegovina, large parts of modern-day Croatia and parts of modern-day Serbia and Montenegro, with Tvrtko Ieventually establishing the Kingdom of Bosnia in 1377. The Kotromanić intermarried with several southeastern and central European royal houses. The last sovereign, Stephen Tomašević, ruled briefly as Despot of Serbia in 1459 and as King of Bosnia between 1461–63, before losing both countries – and his head – to the Ottoman Turks.\n\nThe Battle of Bileća was fought in August 1388 between the forces of the Kingdom of Bosnia led by Duke (Voevoda) Vlatko Vuković and the Ottoman Turks under the leadership of Lala Şahin Pasha. It represents one of the first Ottoman incursions into the territory of the Serb lands of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Ottoman army broke into Zachlumia, the kingdom's southern region. After days of looting, the invaders clashed with the defending force near the town of Bileća, ending in the latter's decisive victory. Battle of Bileca is celebrated by the Serbs of Bosnia & Herzegovina as one of their first victories against Islamic Ottoman enemy which changed the nature of their country forever.\nSerbs from Bosnia often helped the overall Serb struggle against Ottoman conquest of various Serbian lands. For example, Herzegovinian Voevoda Vlatko Vuković also participated in the Battle of Kosovo. \n\nIn the late 14th and middle of the 15th century, the Ottoman Empire started to conquer Bosnia. In 1451 they took Vrhbosna province and conquered Bosnia in 1463. Herzegovina was conquered in 1481. As the Serbs in other areas of the Balkan Peninsula, Serbs in Bosnia and Herzegovina also resisted the Ottoman and Islamic conquest. \n\nAfter the fall, Serbs were subjected to various persecutions, war crimes, oppression and genocide at the hands of Muslims, including the infamous Devsirme system of forced assimilation, various Sharia inequalities, including forced labor, jizya, harsh taxation and slavery. Although their percentage in the overall population decreased, Orthodox Serbs managed to stay a relative majority in their land, and constitute a territorial majority within the territory of contemporary Bosnia, as Orthodox Serbs were traditionally a rural population within Bosnia, while Muslims were more often an urban populace, due to their services as city guards and traders.\n\nBosnian Serbs often rebelled against Ottoman rule. The Serb Uprising of 1596–97 was suppressed at Gacko. It was a part of a broader Serb struggle against the Ottomans, in support of Austria and Venice.\n\nIn 1809, Jančić's Revolt broke out in Gradiška. This revolt was a part of the Serbian Revolution, and an attempt of Serb rebels in Bosnia to connect with Serbian rebels in the Sanjak of Smederevo, and an offensive into Bosnia they initiated.\n\nIn 1834, Priest Jovica's Revolt broke out in Gradiška. In 1858, Pecija's First Revolt broke out in Knešpolje.\n\nFrom 1815 to 1878 the Ottoman's authority in Bosnia and Herzegovina was decreasing. After the reorganization of the Ottoman army and abolition of the Jannisaries, Bosnian nobility revolted, led by Husein Gradaščević, who wanted to establish autonomy in Bosnia and Herzegovina and to stop any further social reforms. During the 19th Century, various reforms were made in order to increase freedom of religion which sharpened relations between of Catholics and Muslims in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Soon, economic decay would happen and nationalist influence from Europe came to Bosnia and Herzegovina. Since the state administration was very disorganized and the national conscience was very strong among the Christian population, the Ottoman Empire lost control over Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Serbian population in Herzegovina revolted, which led to the Herzegovina Uprising. The Ottoman authorities were unable to defeat the rebels, so Serb Principalities Serbia and Montenegro took advantage of this weakness and attacked the Ottoman Empire in 1876, soon after the Russian Empire did the same. The Turks lost the war in 1878. After the Congress of Berlin was held in same year, mandate of Bosnia and Herzegovina was transferred to the Austro-Hungarian Empire.\n\nMore specifically, In 1875, the Herzegovina Uprising broke out in the Bosnia Vilayet. On July 2, 1876, Golub Babić and his 71 commanders signed the \"Proclamation of the Unification of Bosnia with Serbia\". This event is often known, among Serbian historians, as the \"Third Serbian Uprising\". This rebellion directly led to independence of Serb principalities of Motenegro and Serbia. It lasted from 1875 up to Austro-Hungarian occupation in 1878. In 1876, during this \"Third Serbian Uprising\" in Bosnia and Herzegovina (1875–1878), Bosnia and Herzegovina, and its Serbian people's leadership proclaimed union and annexation to Serbia(\"Proclamation of the Unification of Bosnia with Serbia\"), under its Kniaz (Prince) Milan IV Obrenovich. The Turks lost the war in 1878. After the Congress of Berlin was held in same year, Bosnia and Herzegovina was transferred to the Austro-Hungarian Empire.\n\nAround one quarter of rebel leaders (voivodes) of the Serbian Revolution were born in modern-day Bosnia and Herzegovina or had their roots in the region of Bosnia or Herzegovina.\nMateja Nenadović met with local Serb leaders from Sarajevo in 1803 in order to negotiate their part in the rebellion, with the ultimate goal being that the two armies meet in Sarajevo.\n\nDuring the various Balkan liberation wars (Serbian Revolution 1804–1830, Balkan Wars 1875–1878, or Balkan Wars 1912–1913 etc.) Muslim populace from all over the Balkans gradually settled the last pockets of Ottoman rule in the Balkans, one of which is Bosnia.\n\nIn 1878, Bosnia and Herzegovina became a protectorate of Austria-Hungary, which the Serbs strongly opposed, even launching guerrilla operations against Austro-Hungarian forces. Even after the fall of the Ottoman rule, the population of Bosnia and Herzegovina was divided. Serbian politicians in the Kingdom of Serbia and the Principality of Montenegro sought to annex Bosnia & Herzegovina into a unified Serbian state and that aspiration often caused political tension with Austria-Hungary. Another ambition of Serbian politicians was to incorporate the Condominium of Bosnia and Herzegovina into the Kingdom of Serbia. The Habsburg Governor Béni Kállay resorted to co-opt religious institutions. Soon, the Austrian Emperor gained support to name Orthodox metropolitans and Catholic bishops and to choose Muslim hierarchy.\n\nAt the time, Bosnia and Herzegovina was facing a Habsburg attempt at modernization. The majority were Serbs, while Muslims and Croats were a minority, and in even smaller percentages Slovenes, Czechs and others. During this period, the most significant event is Bosnian entry to European political life and the shaping of ethnic Serbs in Bosnia and Herzegovina into a modern nation. At the end of the 19th century, Bosnian Serbs founded various reading, cultural and singing societies, and at the beginning of the 20th century, a new Bosnian Serb intelligentsia played a major role in the political life of Serbs.  One of the major Serbian cultural and national organizations was Prosvjeta, \"Bosanska Vila\" and \"Zora\", among others. Serbian national organizations were focused on the preservation of Serbian language, history and culture. First Serbian Sokol societies on the present territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina were founded in the late 19th century by intellectuals. Stevan Žakula, is remembered as a prominent worker in opening and maintaining sokol and gymnastic clubs. Žakula was the initiator of the establishment of Serbian gymnastics society \"Obilić\" in Mostar and Sports and gymnastic society \"Serbian soko\" in Tuzla. Sokol societies were also established in another cities across the Bosnia and Herzegovina.\n\nIn 1908, Austria-Hungary annexed Bosnia & Herzegovina, at this time majority Serb-inhabited, going against the directions of the Berlin Congress, which caused an uproar in Montenegro and Serbia. This Annexation crisis, was one of the reasons for later tensions which led to the eruption of WWI.\n\nThe first parliamentary elections in Bosnia and Herzegovina were held in 1910, the winner was Serbian National Organization. On June 28, 1914, Bosnian Serb Gavrilo Princip made international headlines after assassinating Arch Duke Francis Ferdinand in Sarajevo. This sparked World War I leading to Austria-Hungary's defeat and the incorporation of Bosnia and Herzegovina into the Kingdom of Yugoslavia.\n\nDuring WWI, Serbs in Bosnia were often blamed for the outbreak of the war, the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand, and were subjected to persecution by the Austro-Hungarian authorities, including internment and looting of their businesses, by people who were instigated to ethnic violence.\n\nBosnian and Herzegovinian Serbs served in Montenegrin and Serbian army en masse, as they felt loyalty to the overall pan-Serbian cause. Bosnian Serbs also served in Austrian Army, and were loyal to Austria-Hungary when it came to Italian Front, but they often deserted and switched sides when they were sent to the Russian front, or to Serbian Front. Many Serbs supported the advance of fellow Montenegrin Serb Army, when it entered into Herzegovina, and advanced close to Sarajevo in 1914, as the King of Montenegro, King Nicholas I Petrovich-Njegos was very popular among Bosnian and Herzegovinian Serbs because of his pan-Serbian and Serbian nationalist views and help during Herzegovinian uprisings in the 19th century.\n\nAfter World War I, Bosnia and Herzegovina became part of the internationally unrecognized State of Slovenes, Croats and Serbs which existed between October and December 1918. In December 1918, this state united with the Kingdom of Serbia (in its 1918 borders), as Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes,which was renamed the Kingdom of Yugoslavia in 1929. Even with around 45% Serbs living in Bosnia and Herzegovina, far more than any other group within Bosnia, Serbian leadership of the state decided to acknowledge demands of Muslim representative Mehmed Spaho, and respect the pre-war territorial integrity of Bosnia & Herzegovina, therefore not changing internal district borders of Bosnia. Bosnian Serbs constituted around half of the total Bosnian population, but they constituted a vast territorial majority and have unilaterally proclaimed union with Serbia, for the second time in modern history, now in 1918. In total, 42 out of 54 municipalities in Bosnia & Herzegovina proclaimed union(annexation to) Serbia, without the approval of „People's Yugoslav“ government in Sarajevo, without even consulting them, in 1918. The regime of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia was characterized by limited parliamentarism, and ethnic tensions, mainly between Croats and Serbs. The state of the Kingdom became dire and King Alexander was forced to declare a dictatorship on 6 January 1929. The Kingdom was renamed into Yugoslavia, divided into new territorial entities called Banovinas. Yugoslavia was preoccupied with political struggles, which led to the collapse of the state after Dušan Simović organized a coup in March 1941 and after which Nazi Germany invaded Yugoslavia.\n\nKing Alexander was killed in 1934, which led to the end of dictatorship. In 1939, faced with killings, corruption scandals, violence and the failure of centralized policy, the Serbian leadership agreed a compromise with Croats. Banovinas would later, in 1939, evolve into the final proposal for the partition of the joint state into three parts or three Banovinas, one Slovene Banovina, one Croatian and one Serbian, with each encompassing most of the ethnic space of each ethnic group. Most of the territory of contemporary Bosnia and Herzegovina was to be part of the Banovina Serbia, since most of the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina was majority Serb-inhabited, and the Serbs constituted overall relative majority. On 24 August 1939, the president of the Croatian Peasant Party, Vladko Maček and Dragiša Cvetković made an agreement (\"Cvetković-Maček agreement\") according to which Banovina of Croatia was created with many concessions on the Serbian side. Serbs in Dalmatia, Slavonia, Krajina and Posavina found themselves in a Croatian entity within Yugoslavia, while virtually no Croats remained in the Serbian federal entity in 1939.\n\nMost Bosnian Serbs supported federalist policies of Pribicevic during the Kingdom of Yugoslavia.\n\nDuring World War II, Bosnian Serbs were put under the rule of the fascist Ustashe regime (supported by Bosnian Muslims) in the Independent State of Croatia. Under Ustashe rule Serbs along with Jews and Roma people, were subjected to systematic genocide where hundreds of thousands of civilian Serbs were murdered (significant disruption of the ethnic structure in favor of Bosnian Muslims). According to the US Holocaust Museum, 320,000–340,000 Serbs were murdered under Ustasha rule. According to Yad Vashem Holocaust Museum and Research Center, \"More than 500,000 Serbs were murdered in horribly sadistic ways, 250,000 were expelled, and another 200,000 were forced to convert\" during WWII in the Independent State of Croatia (modern-day Croatia and Bosnia). Many historians and authors describe the Ustashe regime's mass killings of Serbs as meeting the definition of genocide, including Raphael Lemkin who is known for coining the word \"genocide\" and initiating the Genocide Convention. In an interview on 4 November 2015, Bakir Izetbegović, Bosniak Member of the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, also described the persecutions of Serbs in Independent State of Croatia as genocide. Kruščica concentration camp was one of the concentration camps established by Ustashe, it was founded in April 1941 for Serb and Jewish women and children.\nSerbs suffered large genocide, and therefore drastic demographic shift during WWII. The official brutal policies of the Independent State of Croatia, involving expulsion, murder and forced conversion to Catholicism of Orthodox Serbs, contributed that Serbs never recover within Bosnia & Herzegovina. The Federal Bureau of Statistics in Belgrade composed a figure of 179,173 persons killed in the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina during the Second World War: 129,114 Serbs (\"72.1%\"); 29,539 Muslims (\"16.5%\"); 7,850 Croats (\"4.4%\"); \"others\" (\"7%\"). By the plans of Nazi Germany and the Independent State of Croatia 110,000 Serbs were relocated and transported to German-occupied Serbia. Just in the period of May to August 1941 over 100,000 Serbs were expelled to Serbia. In the heat of war Serbia had 200,000–400,000 Serbian refugees from Ustaša-held Bosnia and Herzegovina. By the end of war 137,000 Serbs have permanently left the territories of Bosnia and Herzegovina.\n\nThe May 1941 Sanski Most revolt against the Ustashe was suppressed in two days, and the June 1941 uprising in eastern Herzegovina was suppressed after two weeks. However, the Serbs gradually organized into two anti-fascist rebellion movements, The Chetnik Movement, and the Partisan Movement, both being dominated by fighters of Serbian origin, at least in the initial stages of combat in 1941. In June 1941, Serbs in eastern Herzegovina rebelled against the authorities of the Independent State of Croatia (Croatian: \"Nezavisna Država Hrvatska\", NDH), an Axis puppet state established during World War II on the territory of the defeated and occupied Kingdom of Yugoslavia. As the NDH imposed its authority, members of the fascist Ustashe ruling party began a campaign of persecution of Serbs throughout the country. In eastern Herzegovina, the Ustashe perpetrated a series of massacres and attacks against the majority Serb population commencing in the first week of June. Between 3 and 22 June 1941, spontaneous clashes occurred between NDH authorities and groups of Serbs in the region.\n\nThe German invasion of the Soviet Union began on 22 June. Over the next two days, the sporadic revolts by Serbs against the NDH in eastern Herzegovina erupted into mass rebellion, triggered by Ustashe persecution, Serb solidarity with the Russian people, hatred and fear of the NDH authorities, and other factors. Serb rebels, under the leadership of both local Serbs and Montenegrins, attacked police, gendarmerie, Ustashe and Croatian Home Guard forces in the region. \n\nMost of anti-fascist combat and battles were fought in mainly Serb-inhabited areas of Bosnia & Herzegovina., Like the Battle of Neretva, Battle of Sutjeska, Drvar Operation, Kozara Battle and so forth.\n\nBetween 1945 and 1948, following World War II, approximately 70,000 Serbs migrated from the People's Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina to Vojvodina after the Germans had left, which was a part of Communist policy.\n\nDuring the communist era, Bosnia and Herzegovina were populated by three ethnic groups: the Croats, the Serbs and the Muslims (later re-designated as Bosniaks). Many Serbs declared their nationality as Yugoslav and like all ethnic groups at the time, Serbs collaborated and were friends with their fellow citizens, whilst also maintaining their culture, primarily through their following of Serbian Orthodox Church. Many Serb scholars were subjected to persecution and false accusations of irridentism.\n\nAfter the government of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina declared independence, which was not accepted by the federal Serb controlled government of Yugoslavia, the Serbian Autonomous Area of the Bosnian Frontier was formed in the western Bosnian Frontier region of Bosnia and Herzegovina with its capital in Banja Luka, which was not recognised by the central government. SAO Bosnian Frontier made attempts to unite with the Autonomous Region of the Serbian Frontier in Croatia. The Serb political leadership martialled its own force assisted by the Yugoslav People's Army and declared independence from Bosnia and Herzegovina in late 1992.\n\nBiH's Bosniak and Bosnian Croat dominated government did not recognize the new Serbian Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, whose president was Radovan Karadžić seated in Pale. The Serb side accepted the proposed ethnic cantonization of Bosnia and Herzegovina (the Carrington-Cutileiro peace plan), as did the Bosniak and Bosnian Croat sides in Lisbon in 1992, in the hope that war would not break out. The Bosniak political leadership under President Alija Izetbegović of Bosnia and Herzegovina subsequently revoked the agreement refusing to decentralize the newly created country based on ethnic lines. The Bosnian Civil War began. Among the Serb population, the war is known as the \"Defensive Fatherland War\". Serbs and the Army of the Serb Republic (VRS) was outnumbered, outgunned, and isolated, faced against regular Croatian Army (HV), Croatian Defense Council (HVO), mainly Muslim Army of Bosnia & Herzegovina (ABiH), forces of Autonomous Province of Western Bosnia and NATO airstrikes. Furthermore, Serbs faced weapons embargo, and sanctions from the Western countries, Russia, and even Serbia and FR Yugoslavia under Slobodan Milosevic, who instituted sanctions against the Serb Republic in 1993. Milosevic supported every single peace plan the International Community proposed, even those which did not presuppose the existence of the Serb Republic.\n\nThroughout most of the war the Bosnian Serbs fought against both the Bosniaks (\"Muslims\") and the Bosnian Croats. During Bosniak-Croat hostilities the Serbs co-operated largely with the Croats. There were exceptions to this, however, as Serb forces were also allied with the pro-Yugoslav Bosniaks of the Autonomous Province of Western Bosnia under Fikret Abdić. Serb forces also carried out ethnic cleansing operations against non-Serbs living within their territory, the most formidable was the Srebrenica massacre in July 1995. During most of the war, Republika Srpska held around 70% of the country. During the entire length of war the Army of Republika Srpska carried out a siege of Sarajevo, allegedly in order to tie down the Bosnian forces and their resources. The siege was mostly justified with the reason of defending Sarajevo's surrounding Serb villages, which were almost exclusively inhabited by ethnic Serbs. Republika Srpska maintained close ties with the Republic of Srpska Krajina and received volunteers and supplies from FR Yugoslavia during the war. RS received a large number of Serb refugees from other Yugoslav hotzones, particularly non-Serb held areas in Sarajevo, Herzeg-Bosnia and Croatia. In 1993, the Owen-Stoltenberg peace treaty was suggested that would give 52% of BiH to the Serb side. It was refused by the Bosniak side as too large of a concession.\n\nIn 1994, FR Yugoslavia imposed sanctions after the National Assembly of Republika Srpska refused the Vance-Owen peace plan. In 1995, Operation Storm eliminated the Republic of Serbian Krajina. The Croatian Army continued the offensive into Republika Srpska. Some 250,000 Serbs fled to Republika Srpska and Serbia from Croatia, as the Serb side continued a full retreat of Serbs from the Una to the Sana river. The Croatian Army, supported by Bosnian government forces came within 20 km of the \"de facto\" Bosnian Serb capital, Banja Luka, but were halted by Serbian defenders near Prijedor and throughout Bosnian Krajina, when their airplanes could finally fly without NATO intervention on the Croatian side. The war was halted with the Dayton Peace Agreement which recognized Republika Srpska, as one of the two territorial entities of the Bosnia and Herzegovina, comprising 49% of total territory. The Serb side suffered a total 22,779 victims - 15,298 military personnel and 7,480 civilians, according to the Demographic Unit at the ICTY. Although exact numbers are disputed, it is generally agreed that the Bosnian War claimed the lives of about 100,000 people of all ethnic groups.\n\nIn 1996 there were some 435,346 ethnic Serb refugees from Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina in Republika Srpska, while another 197,925 had gone to Serbia. According to the data of the Serbian Commissariat for Refugees, up to 1995 Serbia housed 266,000 refugees from Bosnia Herzegovina and a total of 70,000 refugees returned to the country of their origin. After the Yugoslav Wars Serbia became home to the highest number of refugees (which included Bosnian Serbs) and IDPs in Europe. Serbs massively left the capital Sarajevo in early 1996.\n\nThe 2013 population census registered 1,086,733 Serbs or 30.8% of the total population of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Bosnian Serbs are the most territorially widespread nation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The vast majority i.e. 1,001,299 live on the territory of the Republika Srpska, where they constitute 81.5% of population. Bosnian Serbs are adherents of the Serbian Orthodox Church. Serbs form a demographic majority in these municipalities: Banja Luka, Bijeljina, Prijedor, Doboj, Zvornik, Gradiška, Teslić, Prnjavor, Laktaši, Trebinje, Derventa, Novi Grad, Modriča, Kozarska Dubica, Pale, Foča, Drvar, Glamoč, Bosansko Grahovo and Bosanski Petrovac. Serbs are also a relative minority in Brčko.\n\nThere were no reliable population censuses in the Middle Ages, however most of the medieval sources concerning the identity and the demographics of medieval Bosnia state that the area was continuously inhabited mainly by Serbs, who were either Orthodox by faith or followers of an Orthodox sect of Bogomil. Heading 32 of De Administrando Imperio of Constantine Porphyrogenitus, is called \"On the Serbs and the lands in which they live\". It speaks of the territories inhabited by Serbs in which he mentions Bosnia, specifically two inhabited cities, Kotor and Desnik, both of which are in an unidentified geographic position.\n\nAustria-Hungary pursued a demographic policy of reducing the Serbian population and trying to erase their identity, converting it to a \"Bosnian nationhood\", therefore, Austrian population census only had religious affiliation as a main determinism of identity. In the last Austrian census of 1910, there were 825,418 Orthodox Serbs, which constituted 43.49% of the total population. The Catholic Encyclopedia, 1917, states: \"According to the census of 22 April 1895, Bosnia has 1,361,868 inhabitants and Herzegovina 229,168, giving a total population of 1,591,036. The number of persons to the square mile is small (about 80), less than that in any of the other Austrian crown provinces excepting Salzburg (about 70). This average does not vary much in the six districts (five in Bosnia, one in Herzegovina). The number of persons to the square mile in these districts is as follows: Doljna Tuzla, 106; Banjaluka, 96; Bihac, 91; Serajevo, 73, Mostar(Herzegovina), 65, Travnik, 62. There are 5,388 settlements, of which only 11 have more than 5,000 inhabitants, while 4,689 contain less 500 persons. Excluding some 30,000 Albanians living in the south-east, the Jews who emigrated in earlier times from Spain, a few Osmanli Turks, the merchants, officials. and Austrian troops, the rest of the population (about 98 per cent) belong to the southern Slavonic people, the Serbs. Although one in race, the people form in religious beliefs three sharply separated divhe Mohammedans, about 550,000 persons (35 per cent), Greek Schismatics, about 674,000 persons (43 per cent), and Catholics, about 334,000 persons (21.3 per cent). The last mentioned are chiefly peasants.\"\n\nSerbs suffered large negative (decreasing) demographic shift during WWII. The official policies of the Independent State of Croatia, involving expulsion, murder and forced conversion of Serbs, contributed that Serbs never recover demographically within Bosnia & Herzegovina. The Federal Bureau of Statistics in Belgrade composed a figure of 179,173 persons killed in the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina during the Second World War: 129,114 Serbs (\"72.1%\"); 29,539 Muslims (\"16.5%\"); 7,850 Croats (\"4.4%\"); \"others\" (\"7%\"). By the plans of Nazi Germany and the Independent State of Croatia 110,000 Serbs were relocated and transported to German-occupied Serbia. Just in the period of May to August 1941 over 100,000 Serbs were expelled to Serbia. In the heat of war Serbia had 200,000-400,000 Serbian refugees from Ustaša-held Bosnia and Herzegovina. By the end of war 137,000 Serbs have permanently left the territories of Bosnia and Herzegovina.\n\nCommunist authorities implemented a policy of silent \"demographic emptying\" of Serbs from Bosnia, by dividing Serbs into several republics, causing a \"brain drain\" of Serbs from Bosnia to Serbia. Also, the communist policies of rapid urbanization and industrialization, devastated the traditional rural life of Serbs, causing drastic halt in natural growth of Serbs. The first Yugoslav census recorded a decreasing number of Serbs; from the first census in 1948 to the last one from 1991, the percentage of Serbs decreased from 44.29% to 31.21%, even though the total number increased. According to the 1953 census, Serbs were in the majority in 74% of the territory of Bosnia & Herzegovina, and according to the census of 2013, Serbs are the majority on over 50% of Bosnia & Herzegovina. Their total number in 1953 was 1,264,372, that is 44.40% of total Bosnian population. According to the 1961 census, Serbs made up 42.89% of total population, and their number was 1,406,053. After that, districts were divided into smaller municipalities.\n\nAccording to the 1971 census, Serbs were 37,19% of total population, and their number was 1,393,148. According to the 1981 census, Serbs made up 32,02% of total population, and their number was 1,320,738. After 1981, their percentage continued to reduce. From 1971 to 1991, the percentage of Serbs fell due to emigration into Montenegro, Serbia, and Western Europe. According to the 1991 census, Serbs were 31.21% of the total population, and their number was 1,366,104.\n\nThe total number of Serbs in Bosnia and Herzegovina continued to reduce, especially after the Bosnian War broke out in 1992. Soon, an exodus of Bosnian Serbs occurred when a large number of Serbs were expelled from central Bosnia, Ozren, Sarajevo, Western Herzegovina and Krajina. According to the 1996 census, made by UNHCR and officially unrecognized, there was 3,919,953 inhabitants, of which 1,484,530 (37.88%) were Serbs. In the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the percentage of Serbs slightly changed, although, their total number reduced.\n\nSerbs of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as other two constitutive nations, have their representative in the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Presidency has three members, one Bosniak, one Croat and one Serb. The Bosniak and the Croat are elected in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, while the Serb is elected in the Republika Srpska. The current president of the Republika Srpska is Željka Cvijanović.\n\nThe current Serb member of the Presidency is Milorad Dodik of the SNSD.\n\nThe Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina has two chambers, House of Representatives and House of Peoples. House of Peoples has 15 members, five Bosniaks, five Croats and five Serbs. Bosniak and Croat members of the House of Peoples are elected in the Parliament of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, while five Serb members are elected in the National Assembly of Republika Srpska. The 42 members of the House of Representatives are elected directly by voters, two-thirds are from the Federation while one-third is from the Republika Srpska.\n\nAccording to its constitution, Republika Srpska has its own president, people's assembly (the 83-member unicameral People's Assembly of Republika Srpska), executive government (with a prime minister and several ministries), its own police force, supreme court and lower courts, customs service (under the state-level customs service), and a postal service. It also has its symbols, including coat of arms, flag (a variant of the Serbian flag without the coat of arms displayed) and entity anthem. The Constitutional Law on Coat of Arms and Anthem of the Republika Srpska was ruled not in concordance with the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina as it states that those symbols \"represent statehood of the Republika Srpska\" and are used \"in accordance with moral norms of the Serb people\". According to the Constitutional Court's decision, the Law was to be corrected by September 2006. Republika Srpska later changed its emblem.\n\nAlthough the constitution names Sarajevo as the capital of Republika Srpska, the northwestern city of Banja Luka is the headquarters of most of the institutions of government, including the parliament, and is therefore the \"de facto\" capital. After the war, Republika Srpska retained its army, but in August 2005, the parliament consented to transfer control of Army of Republika Srpska to a state-level ministry and abolish the entity's defense ministry and army by 1 January 2006. These reforms were required by NATO as a precondition of Bosnia and Herzegovina's admission to the Partnership for Peace programme. Bosnia and Herzegovina joined the programme in December 2006.\n\nCurrently, there are several Serbian political parties in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and Republic of Srpska. The Serbian Democratic Party (SDS), the Alliance of Independent Social Democrats (SNSD), and Party of Democratic Progress (PDP) are the most popular parties.\n\nSDS was founded in 1990 and is major political parties among Bosnian Serbs, being the most powerful during the Bosnian Civil War (1992–1995). SNSD was founded on pro-European, democratic, federalist, socialist principles, but has later on switched its tendencies into populism and pro-Russian external policies. PDP is Christian democratic, traditionalist, conservative and pro-Europeanist political party.\n\nCultural and education society, Prosvjeta was founded in Sarajevo in 1902. It quickly became the most important organization gathering ethnic Serb citizens. In 1903 was founded Gajret, Serbian Muslim Cultural Society. Academy of Sciences and Arts of the Republika Srpska is active since 1996.\n\nBosnia and Herzegovina is rich in Serbian architecture, especially when it comes to numerous Serbian churches and monasteries. Modern Serbo-Byzantine architectural style which started in the second half of the 19th century is not only present in the sacral but also in civil architecture. Churches and monasteries are decorated with frescoes and iconostasis.\nMuseum of Old Orthodox Church in Sarajevo is among the five in the world by its rich treasury of icons and other objects dating from different centuries.\n\nSerbs of Bosnia and Herzegovina have made a significant contribution to modern Serbian painting. Notable painters include Miloš Bajić, Jovan Bijelić, Špiro Bocarić, Vera Božičković Popović, Stojan Ćelić, Vojo Dimitrijević, Lazar Drljača, Oste Erceg, Nedeljko Gvozdenović, Kosta Hakman, Momo Kapor, Ratko Lalić, Đoko Mazalić, Svetislav Mandić, Radenko Mišević, Roman Petrović, Ljubomir Popović, Pero Popović, Branko Radulović, Svetozar Samurović, Branko Šotra, Todor Švrakić, Mica Todorović,\nMilovan Vidak, Rista Vukanović. In 1907 P. Popović, Radulović and Švrakić exhibited in one of the two exhibitions that year that marked the beginnings of the modern painting tradition in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Among the sculptors prominent is Sreten Stojanović.\n\nThe Serbs of Bosnia and Herzegovina speak the Eastern Herzegovinian dialect of Serbian language for which is characteristic ijekavian pronunciation.\n\nTraces of Serbian language on this territory are very old which prove old inscriptions such as Grdeša's tombstone, the oldest known stećak. One of the most important Serbian manuscripts Miroslav Gospel, was written for the Serbian Grand Prince Miroslav of Hum. Serbian language is rich with several medieval gospels written in Bosnia and Herzegovina. They are decorated with miniatures.\n\nIn the early 16th century Božidar Goraždanin founded Goražde printing house. It was one of the earliest printing houses among the Serbs, and the first in the territory of present-day Bosnia and Herzegovina. Goražde Psalter printed there is counted among the better accomplishments of early Serb printers.\n\nBosnian Serbs gave significant contribution to the Serbian epic poetry. Famous singers of the epic poetry are Filip Višnjić and Tešan Podrugović.\n\nThe works of Serbian writers from Bosnia and Herzegovina are of great importance to the entire Serbian literature. Notable authors include Ivo Andrić, Branko Ćopić, Meša Selimović, Svetozar Ćorović, Petar Kočić, Sima Milutinović Sarajlija, Borivoje Jevtić, Jovan Palavestra, Jovan Kršić, Gavro Vučković Krajišnik, Aleksa Šantić, Jovan Dučić, Jovan Sundečić, Marko Vranješević, Mladen Oljača, Risto Trifković, Risto Tošović, Skender Kulenović, Duško Trifunović, Vojislav Lubarda, Radoslav Bratić, Momo Kapor, Vladimir Kecmanović, Vule Žurić, Vladimir Pištalo ...\n\n\"Bosanska vila\" from Sarajevo and \"Zora\" from Mostar founded in the 19th century are important literary magazines.\n\nMusic of Serbs in Bosnia and Herzegovina include traditional instruments such as gusle, frula, gajde, tamburica, etc. \nFirst Serbian singing societies in Bosnia and Herzegovina were set up in \"Foča (1885)\", \"Tuzla (1886)\", \"Prijedor (1887)\", \"Mostar and Sarajevo (1888)\" and other cities across the country. First concert in Bosnia and Herzegovina was held in Banja Luka in 1881.\n\nSerbian music is rich in folk songs of Serbian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Many songs are performed in traditional way of singing called ojkanje. Serbian singers and composers such as Rade Jovanović, Jovica Petković, Dragiša Nedović and others gave significant contribution to special type of songs called sevdalinka. Aleksa Šantić's poem Emina became one of the most known sevdalinkas. Notable performers of folk music include Vuka Šeherović, Nada Mamula, Nedeljko Bilkić, Nada Obrić, Marinko Rokvić, etc.\n\nBosnian and Heregovians Serbs largely participated in Yugoslav pop-rock scene that was active since the end of the World War II until the break up of the country. Serbian musicians are members, and often leaders of popular bands such as Ambasadori, Bijelo Dugme, Bombaj Štampa, Indexi, Plavi orkestar, ProArte, Regina, Vatreni Poljubac, Zabranjeno pušenje. Zdravko Čolić is one of the biggest Yugoslav and Serbian music stars. Among singer-songwriters significant career made Jadranka Stojaković, Srđan Marjanović.\n\nPost Yugoslav popular music singers include Željko Samardžić, Romana, Nedeljko Bajić Baja, Saša and Dejan Matić.\n\nDušan Šestić composed national anthem of Bosnia and Herzegovina.\n\nThe first theatre show in Bosnia and Herzegovina was organized by Serb Stevo Petranović in Tešanj in 1865 while the first shows in Sarajevo were organized in the house of Serb Despić family. The first feature film in Bosnia and Herzegovina, \"Major Bauk\" was directed by Nikola Popović by the script of Branko Ćopić. Significant directors include Emir Kusturica, double winner of the Palme d'Or at the Cannes Film Festival, Zdravko Šotra, Nebojša Komadina, Predrag Golubović, Boro Drašković, Gorčin Stojanović, Radivoje Andrić, Ognjenka Milićević, Miroslav Belović, Dejan Mijač, Egon Savin... Among the sreenwriters prominent are Gordan Mihić, Ranko Božić, Srđan Koljević... Actors that achieved success in Yugoslav and Serbian cinematography include Predrag Tasovac, Branko Pleša, Marko Todorović, Tomo Kuruzović, Tamara Miletić, Slobodan Đurić, Slobodan Ćustić, Tihomir Stanić, Nikola Pejaković, Nebojša Glogovac, Davor Dujmović, Nataša Ninković, Danina Jeftić, Brankica Sebastijanović...\n\nSerbs of Bosnia and Herzegovina gave significant contribution to the folklore of Serbian people, including folk costume, music, traditional singing and instruments, epic poetry, crafts, and dances.\nThe dresses of Bosnia are divided into two groups; the Dinaric and Pannonian styles. In Eastern Herzegovina, the folk costumes are closely related to those of Old Herzegovina. Cultural and artistic societies across the country practice folklore tradition.\n\nThe first education institutions of Bosnian Serbs were monasteries, of which the most significant were Dobrun, Klisina, Krupa on Vrbas, Liplje, Mostanica, Ozren, Tavna, Tvrdos, Gracanica of Herzegovina, Stuplje, Donja Bisnja, among many others throughout Bosnia & Herzegovina. The most significant people workingfor the elementary education of Bosnian Serbs in the 19th century were Jovan Ducic, Petar Kocic, and Aleksa Santic, among others, who founded and organized elementary schools throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina. Staka Skenderova established Sarajevo's first school for girls on 19 October 1858. The educational system in Ottoman era and Austro-Hungarian occupation was based on strict negation and suppression of Serbian identity. The educational system of Bosnia and Herzegovina during communism was based on a mixture of nationalities and the suppression of Serb identity. With the foundation of Serb Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, later simply called Serb Republic, Bosnian Serb schools took the educational system from Serbia.\n\nAt the same time, University of Sarajevo, split into two, one Muslim in Western Sarajevo, and one Serbian, renamed University of East Sarajevo, with official Serbian language, the latter having most of the pre-war professors and lecturers. There is also Serbian University in Banja Luka, called University of Banja Luka. After signing the Dayton accords, jurisdiction over education in Republika Srpska was given to RS Government, while in Federation, jurisdiction over education was given to the cantons. Municipalities with Serb majority or significant minority, schools with Serbian language as official one also exist. Another education institutes are Agricultural Institute of Republic of Srpska - Banja Luka, Scientific Research Institute of University of Banjaluka, Institute of Genetic Resources in Banja Luka, Serbian Lexicographic Institute of Bosnia and Herzegovina, research Institute for Materials and Constructions of Serb Republic and Institute for Education in Banja Luka.\n\nThe Serbs of Bosnia and Herzegovina are predominantly Eastern Orthodox Christians, belonging to the Serbian Orthodox Church. Serbian Orthodox Church in Bosnia and Herzegovina is organized in five subdivisions, one metropolitanate (Dabar and Bosnia), and four eparchies (Bihać and Petrovac, Banja Luka, Zvornik and Tuzla, and Zahumlje and Herzegovina). Eparchy of Zahumlje and Herzegovina, earlier \"The Metropolitanate of Zahumlje\" was founded in 1219, by Archbishop Sava, the same year the Serbian Orthodox Church acquired its autocephaly status from Constantinople. Thus, it was one of the original Serbian Orthodox bishoprics.\n\nBosnian Serb Makarije Sokolović was the first patriarch of the restored Serbian Patriarchate, after its lapse in 1463 that resulted from the Ottoman conquest of Serbia. He is celebrated as saint. Several Bosnian Serbs are beatified in Serbian Orthodox church of which one of the most famous is Basil of Ostrog.\n\nThe first Serbian high school opened in Bosnia and Herzegovina was Sarajevo orthodox seminary in 1882. On the grounds of this seminary was founded the Theological Faculty in Foča, as part of the University of East Sarajevo. Between 1866 and 1878 in Banja Luka worked theological school, while nowadays is active theological school in Foča.\n\nThere are many Serbian churches and monasteries across the Bosnia and Herzegovina hailing from different periods. Each subdivision has its cathedral church and bishop's palace.\n\nSerbs of Bosnia and Herzegovina have contributed significantly to the Yugoslav and Serbian sport.\n\nFirst Serbian Sokol societies on the present territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina were founded in the late 19th century by intellectuals. Stevan Žakula, Croatian Serb, is remembered as a prominent worker in opening and maintaining sokol and gymnastic clubs. Žakula was the initiator of the establishment of Serbian gymnastics society \"Obilić\" in Mostar and Sports and gymnastic society \"Serbian soko\" in Tuzla. Sokol societies were also established in another cities across the Bosnia and Herzegovina.\n\nFootball is the most popular sport among the Bosnian Serbs. The oldest Serb dominated Club in Bosnia and Herzegovina is Slavija Istočno Sarajevo, founded in 1908, while one of the most popular is Borac Banja Luka winner of Mitropa Cup and Yugoslav Cup. Serbian clubs participate in Premier League of Bosnia and Herzegovina and First League of the Republika Srpska which is run by Football Association of Republika Srpska. Notable players that represented Yugoslavia, Serbia and Bosnia include Branko Stanković, Milan Galić, Velimir Sombolac, Dušan Bajević, Boško Antić, Ilija Pantelić, Miloš Šestić, Savo Milošević, Mladen Krstajić, Neven Subotić, Zvjezdan Misimović, Luka Jović, Sergej Milinković-Savić, Ognjen Vranješ, Gojko Cimirot, Srđan Grahovac, Nemanja Bilbija, Dario Đumić, Zoran Kvržić, Mijat Gaćinović, Rade Krunić ... etc. Zvjezdan Misimović served as captain of the Bosnia and Herzegovina national team from 2007 to 2012 while Ljupko Petrović led Red Star Belgrade to the Champions League trophy in 1991. Marko Marin is a German player of Serbian ethnicity. Cican Stanković is an Austrian player of Serbian ethnicity.\n\nThe second most popular sport among Bosnian Serbs is basketball. Aleksandar Nikolić, is often referred to as, \"The Father of Yugoslav Basketball\". He was voted two times European Coach of the Year winning three Euroleagues and two times FIBA Intercontinental Cup. Second of \"four fathers\" of Yugoslav basketball is Borislav Stanković, former general secretatary of FIBA and IOC member. Some of the players that successfully competed at the biggest world competitions are Ratko Radovanović, Dražen Dalipagić, Zoran Savić, Predrag Danilović, Vladimir Radmanović, Jelica Komnenović, Slađana Golić, Saša Čađo, Ognjen Kuzmić... KK Igokea currently plays in regional ABA League.\n\nHandball club Borac Banja Luka is the most successful Serbian handball club in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It won EHF Champions League in 1976 and was runner up in 1975. Svetlana Kitić was voted the best female handball player ever by the International Handball Federation. Other accomplished players include Dejan Malinović, Milorad Karalić, Nebojša Popović, Zlatan Arnautović, Radmila Drljača, Vesna Radović, Nebojša Golić, Mladen Bojinović, Danijel Šarić...\n\nThe most famous Serbian volleyball family, Grbić family, hails from Trebinje in Eastern Herzegovina. Father Miloš was the captain of the team that won first Yugoslav medal at European championship while sons Vanja and Nikola became Olympic champions with Serbian team. Other players that represented Serbia with success are Đorđe Đurić, Brankica Mihajlović, Tijana Bošković, Jelena Blagojević, Sanja and Saša Starović. Mitar Djuric is a Greek male volleyball player of Serbian ethnicity.\n\nBesides team sports, Bosnian Serbs achieved success and in individual sports such as Slobodan and Tadija Kačar in boxing, Radomir Kovačević, Nemanja Majdov and Aleksandar Kukolj in judo, Milenko Zorić in canoeing, Velimir Stjepanović and Mihajlo Čeprkalo in swimming, Andrea Arsović in shooting, etc.\n\n"}
{"id": "2011584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011584", "title": "Ferhad Pasha Sokolović", "text": "Ferhad Pasha Sokolović\n\nFerhad Pasha Sokolović (, ) (died 1586) was an Ottoman general and statesman from Bosnia. He was the first beylerbey of Bosnia.\n\nBorn into the Sokolović family, he was, like his close relative Grand Vizier Sokollu Mehmed Pasha (Mehmed-pasha Sokolović) abducted as part of the \"devşirme\" system of collection of Christian boys to be raised to serve in the janissary corps, Islamized and recruited into Ottoman service. While one part of the family became Islamized, the other stayed Orthodox; notably, another relative (possibly Mehmed's brother), Makarije Sokolović, was appointed as the Serbian Patriarch by Mehmed Pasha, who with the support of the Sultan had revived the Patriarchate of Peć.\n\nFerhad Pasha was governor of the Sanjak of Klis between 1566 and 1574.\n\nThen he moved back to Bosnia, and was one of the founding fathers of Banja Luka, the second largest city in modern Bosnia and Herzegovina. There, he built over 200 buildings ranging from artisan and sales shops to wheat warehouses, baths and mosques. Among more important commissions were the Ferhadija and Arnaudija mosques during which construction a plumbing infrastructure was laid that served surrounding residential areas. He moved the seat of Bosnia from Travnik to Banja Luka.\n\nIn 1576–77, he conquered the towns of Mutnica, Ostrožac, Podzvizd, Kladuša, Peći, and other towns to the Kupa. Already by springtime 1577, he settled Serb families from Bosnia around reconstructed towns in those areas.\n\nIn 1580, he became the first governor of the Bosnia Eyalet, as beylerbey (also referred to as \"pasha\"). The Bosnia Eyalet (or Pashaluk) comprised a total of ten sanjaks: Sanjak of Bosnia (central province), Sanjak of Herzegovina, Sanjak of Vučitrn, Sanjak of Prizren, Sanjak of Klis, Sanjak of Krka, Sanjak of Pojega and Sanjak of Pakrac. The sanjakbey of the Sanjak of Pakrac was Ali-beg, brother of Ferhad Pasha Sokolović.\n\nFerhad Pasha Sokolović with 10,000 soldiers organized three major assaults and tried to take Gvozdansko Castle in the Kingdom of Croatia in the Habsburg Monarchy. Finally, when the Ottomans entered the castle gates, all the defending forces were already dead of wounds, hunger and cold. The Siege of Gvozdansko ended with an Ottoman victory on 13 January 1578. Ferhat Pasha was so moved by their bravery that they were conceded a Christian burial and the local population freed from taxes.\n\n"}
{"id": "2011585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011585", "title": "Branko Ivanković", "text": "Branko Ivanković\n\nBranko Ivanković (; born 28 February 1954) is a Croatian professional football manager and former player who is the manager of the Oman national team. After a 12-year playing career at Varteks Varaždin, Ivanković started his coaching career at the same club in 1991. He led the Iran national team at the 2006 World Cup.\n\nIvanković spent his entire 12-season playing career at Varteks Varaždin, appearing in a total of 263 matches and scoring 31 goals. He then continued to work at the club by first being their secretary and then starting his coaching career.\n\nHe was the head coach of Varteks Varaždin between 1991 and 1995. He then moved for one season to Segesta Sisak and went on to coach Rijeka in the 1996–97 season.\n\nIvanković then became an assistant manager to Miroslav Blažević, who led the Croatia national team to a sensational third-place finish at the 1998 World Cup finals in France.\n\nIn the 1999–2000 season, he coached German club Hannover 96, which was playing in the 2. Bundesliga at the time. He briefly returned to the Croatia national team as the assistant to Mirko Jozić during the qualifications for the 2002 World Cup, before he took over the Iran national team, where he replaced Blažević, who had managed them since 2001.\n\nIvanković was appointed to the head of the Iranian team on 29 January 2002. Under Ivanković, Iran's U23 football team won the 2002 Asian Games in Pusan. He remained the coach of the national team until the end of 2002, when he was replaced by Homayun Shahrokhi.\nIvanković had become very popular in Iran and the public media demanded a contract renewal, but the Football Federation was initially reluctant to appoint him as the head coach. Finally after a period of negotiations he was reappointed as the head coach of Iran on 3 October 2003.\n\nIvanković led Iran to 2004 AFC Asian Cup third place. \n\nIvanković also led Iran to qualify for the 2006 World Cup, the third time in the country's history (they had previously been eliminated in the first round in 1978 and 1998).\n\nDespite him being the most successful coach of the Iran national team in terms of winning percentage, Ivanković was not liked by the Iranian government who deliberately tried to replace him with a native coach. The Organization for Physical Education which is a governmental watchdog on sports, tried to replace the coach before the World Cup in Germany, however the Iranian Football Federation resisted the pressure and kept Ivanković for the 2006 World Cup.\n\nIran, at their opening game at the World Cup, showed a scintillating first half performance against Mexico, but conceded two goals. The second match against Portugal was not successful either, with Iran conceding two late goals to lose 2–0 and being left without any chances of advancing to the second stage of the tournament, as Mexico drew against Angola on the previous evening and left Iran unreachable four points behind. So, the third group match against Angola became insignificant for Iran. Angola put themselves into the lead with the opening goal after one hour of playing. The Iranians managed to equalise fifteen minutes later, eventually scoring their only point at the 2006 World Cup since the match ended in a 1–1 draw. This point was, however, only enough for Iran to occupy the last place in their group.\n\nAfter the World Cup, MPE removed the Head of the Football Federation of Iran, replacing Ivanković with Amir Qalenoei. This in turn resulted a FIFA suspension for Iran's football due to political interference.\n\nOn 6 November 2006, Ivanković replaced Josip Kuže as the head coach of Croatian club Dinamo Zagreb. He led the club to the Double in 2007 without losing a single competitive match. On 14 January 2008, he resigned as the coach of Dinamo Zagreb, mostly due to his differences with the club's executive vice-president Zdravko Mamić.\n\nIvanković returned as the manager of Dinamo Zagreb on 21 May 2008. He replaced Zvonimir Soldo, who resigned immediately after Dinamo won the domestic double.\n\nIn July 2009, Ivanković was offered the role of Persepolis manager in Iran, but he rejected the offer.\n\nOn 17 December 2009, Ivanković was appointed as the new head coach of Chinese giant Shandong Luneng. In his first season, he led the team to the 2010 Chinese Super League winners with a record 63 points. The team secured the qualification for 2011 AFC Champions League, but Shandong were eliminated in the first round with 7 points. Due to poor result in the Champions League, he was dismissed on 10 May 2011, seven days before crucial game with Cerezo Osaka, which they lost by a score of 0–4.\n\nOn 22 July 2011, Ivanković signed a one-year contract with Ettifaq to lead the club in the 2011–12 Saudi Professional League and return club to the AFC Champions League. He was sacked on 29 April 2012 after finishing the 2011–12 season in fourth.\n\nIn May 2012, UAE Pro-League side Al-Wahda said it signed a two-year contract with Ivanković and that he would take charge at the club in the 2012–13 season, but his contract was terminated on 27 April 2013, after a 3–4 loss to Ajman Club. At the time of his dismissal, Al Wahda was ranked at the 7th place.\n\nOn 2 September 2013, Ivanković returned to Dinamo Zagreb, the club he led from 2006 to 2008. However, he was sacked on 21 October 2013, after just five games.\n\nOn 5 April 2015, Ivanković was confirmed as the new manager of Persepolis, signing a 1½-year contract with the club. After good performances with the club, which left the team in the first place with six matches remaining, Ivanković extended his contract with Persepolis in April 2016 to the end of the 2017–18 season and in 2017 to the end of the 2019–20 season. After the end of the 2018–19 season, it was reported that he was signed for Ahli Jeddah before returning to Croatia for his annual vacation. Ivanković announced that he will leave Persepolis on 11 June 2019.\n\nOn 18 June 2019, he was confirmed signing a two-year contract with Al-Ahli. On 16 September 2019, he was officially sacked after just five games due to poor results.\n\nOn 19 January 2020, Ivanković was announced as the head coach of the Oman national team to succeed Erwin Koeman after the latter's dismissal.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2011589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011589", "title": "Arnaudija Mosque", "text": "Arnaudija Mosque\n\nArnaudija Mosque built in 1594, was a large mosque in Banja Luka, Bosnia and Herzegovina before it was destroyed by the Army of Republika Srpska on 7 May 1993.\n\nThe mosque was demolished by explosives on May 7, 1993, by the Serb militia. The demolition was organized by the authorities of the Republika Srpska which included the demolition of the entire Arnaudija mosque complex and Ferhadija mosque complex that were approximately distant from each other. Both mosques were destroyed in the same night just within the time frame of 15 minutes. \n\nOne of the Serbs leaders from Banja Luka, Radoslav Brđanin was convicted for his part in organizing the ethnic cleansing of the non-Serbs and destruction of the properties of Muslims, including mosques. Radoslav Brđanin was sentenced to a single sentence of 32 years of imprisonment.\n\n"}
{"id": "2011590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011590", "title": "House of the Virgin Mary", "text": "House of the Virgin Mary\n\nThe House of the Virgin Mary (Turkish: Meryemana Evi or Meryem Ana Evi, \"Mother Mary's House\") is a Catholic shrine located on Mt. Koressos (Turkish: \"Bülbüldağı\", \"Mount Nightingale\") in the vicinity of Ephesus, from Selçuk in Turkey.\n\nThe house was discovered in the 19th century by following the descriptions in the reported visions of Blessed Anne Catherine Emmerich (1774–1824), a Roman Catholic nun and visionary, which were published as a book by Clemens Brentano after her death. While the Catholic Church has never pronounced in favour or against the authenticity of the house, it nevertheless has maintained a steady flow of pilgrimage since its discovery. Anne Catherine Emmerich was Beatified by Pope John Paul II on October 3, 2004.\n\nCatholic pilgrims visit the house based on the belief that Mary, the mother of Jesus, was taken to this stone house by Saint John and lived there for the remainder of her earthly life.\n\nThe shrine has merited several papal Apostolic Blessings and visits from several Popes John Paul II and Benedict XVI.\n\nOn the way to the shrine, visitors pass a key hole-shaped baptismal pool, larger than the one located at the basilica in Ephesus. It is thought that an early community of Christians may have lived or were baptized here in seclusion in order to escape the nearby Romans. \nThe shrine itself is not extensively large, but may rather be described as a modest chapel. The preserved stones and construction date back into the Apostolic Age, as consistent with other preserved buildings from that time, but with minor additions such as garden landscapes and devotional additions outside the shrine. Upon entrance to the chapel, a pilgrim is met by one single large room where an altar along with a large statue of the Blessed Virgin Mary is prominently displayed in the center.\n\nOn the right side, a smaller room lies----traditionally associated with the actual room where the Virgin Mary is believed to have slept. Marian tradition holds that some form of running water used to flow like a canal in the smaller room where the Virgin Mary slept and rested, leading to the present drinking fountain outside the building structure.\n\nOutside the shrine is a particular \"wishing wall\" which pilgrims have used by tying their personal intentions on paper or fabric. Various types of florals and fruits are grown nearby, and additional lighting has been installed within the vicinity of the shrine for further monitoring of the site. A water fountain or well is also located nearby, believed by some pilgrims to have miraculous powers of healing or fertility.\n\nAt the beginning of the 19th century, Anne Catherine Emmerich, a bedridden Augustinian nun in Germany, reported a series of visions in which she recounted the last days of the life of Jesus, and details of the life of Mary, his mother. Emmerich was ill for a long period of time in the farming community of Dülmen but was known in Germany as a mystic and was visited by a number of notable figures.\nOne of Emmerich's visitors was the author Clemens Brentano who after a first visit stayed in Dülmen for five years to see Emmerich every day and transcribe the visions she reported. After Emmerich's death, Brentano published a book based on his transcriptions of her reported visions, and a second book was published based on his notes after his own death.\n\nOne of Emmerich's accounts was a description of the house the Apostle John had built in Ephesus for Mary, the mother of Jesus, where she had lived to the end of her life. Emmerich provided a number of details about the location of the house, and the topography of the surrounding area:\n\nEmmerich also described the details of the house: that it was built with rectangular stones, that the windows were high up near the flat roof and that it consisted of two parts with a hearth at the center of the house. She further described the location of the doors, the shape of the chimney, etc. The book containing these descriptions was published in 1852 in Munich, Germany.\n\nOn October 18, 1881, relying on the descriptions in the book by Brentano based on his conversations with Emmerich, a French priest, the Abbé Julien Gouyet discovered a small stone building on a mountain overlooking the Aegean Sea and the ruins of ancient Ephesus in Turkey. He believed it was the house described by Emmerich and where the Virgin Mary had lived the final years of her life.\n\nAbbé Gouyet's discovery was not taken seriously by most people, but ten years later, urged by Sister Marie de Mandat-Grancey, DC, two Lazarist missionaries, Father Poulin and Father Jung, from Smyrna rediscovered the building on July 29, 1891, using the same source for a guide. They learned that the four-walled, roofless ruin had been venerated for a long time by members of the mountain village of Şirince, 17 km distant, who were descended from the early Christians of Ephesus. The house is called \"Panaya Kapulu\" (\"Doorway to the Virgin\"). Every year pilgrims made a pilgrimage to the site on August 15, the date on which most of the Christian world celebrated Mary's Dormition/Assumption.\n\nSister Marie de Mandat-Grancey was named Foundress of Mary's House by the Catholic Church and was responsible for acquiring, restoring and preserving Mary's House and surrounding areas of the mountain from 1891 until her death in 1915. The discovery revived and strengthened a Christian tradition dating from the 12th century, 'the tradition of Ephesus', which has competed with the older 'Jerusalem tradition' about the place of the Blessed Virgin's dormition. Due to the actions of Pope Leo XIII in 1896 and Pope John XXIII in 1961, the Catholic Church first removed plenary indulgences from the Church of the Dormition in Jerusalem and then bestowed them for all time to pilgrims to Mary's House in Ephesus.\n\nThe restored portion of the structure has been distinguished from the original remains of the structure by a line painted in red. Some have expressed doubt about the site, as the tradition of Mary's association with Ephesus \"arose only in the twelfth century.\" Supporters base their belief on the presence of the 5th century Church of Mary, the first basilica in the world dedicated to the Virgin Mary, in Ephesus.\n\nSaint Epiphanius of Salamis in the fourth century was the first author in mentioning the traditional faith of the Assumption of Mary in body and soul to the Heaven, and coming from Ephesus. \n\nLike many other patristic authors, he based this assumption on the Gospel of John chapter 19,18-30, with Jesus on the Cross asking to the Apostle and Evangelist to take care of the Saint Mother of God into his home.\n\nAgain, after the death on the Cross and the resurrection, Jesus has shown his living body, both human with soul, and angelic-spiritual, the same of the Transfiguration of Jesus in the Mount Tabor \"before\" his Passion and the Crucifixion: has shown it in Emmaus, then to the Doubting Thomas, and during forty days to all the twelve Apostles. \n\nAfter Pentecost and the Ascension, they receive the Holy Spirit in order to fulfill the role of diffusing to all the human beings what they have seen and heard by themselves.\n\nBy virtue of all this, it becomes reasonable to believe that the first apostolic church has progressively moved far away from the Saint City, with the Blessed Virgin Mary coming with them.\n\nThe Roman Catholic Church has never pronounced on the authenticity of the house, for lack of scientifically acceptable evidence. It has, however, from the blessing of the first pilgrimage by Pope Leo XIII in 1896, taken a positive attitude towards the site. Pope Pius XII, in 1951, following the definition of the dogma of the Assumption in 1950, elevated the house to the status of a Holy Place, a privilege later made permanent by Pope John XXIII. The site is visited and venerated by Muslims as well as Christians. Pilgrims drink from a spring under the house which is believed to have healing properties. A liturgical ceremony is held here every year on August 15 to commemorate the Assumption of Mary.\n\nPope Paul VI visited the shrine on July 26, 1967, and Pope John Paul II on November 30, 1979. Pope Benedict XVI visited this shrine on November 29, 2006, during his four-day pastoral trip to Turkey.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2011605", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011605", "title": "Falcons (film)", "text": "Falcons (film)\n\nFalcons (Icelandic: Fálkar ()), is the seventh film directed by Friðrik Þór Friðriksson. This film, released in 2002, is mostly in English language and therefore this drama is considered to be a film of both domestic and international appeal.\n\nIt is the story of an ex con, Simon (Carradine) who after returning to Iceland, where his mother was born visit relatives, looks for the loneliest place in the world to commit suicide. In a small village he met Dúa (Vilhjálmsdóttir), an Icelandic young lady, who is found to be an interesting, rather strange woman by Simon. Dúa has a caged falcon that she hopes to tame, but they get into trouble as it is illegal to possess this kind of animal in captivity.<br>\nIn the story Simon is the embodiment of a jailed bird, one of the falcons and as she is an air sign, they join in a relationship ruled by Simon’s belief that she is his illegitimate daughter. Surrounded by tension between them, Simon serves as a protective figure to Dúa, who keeps him from committing suicide.<br>\nThe couple escape to Hamburg, Germany to start all over again. The protagonists’ behaviours are opposite to each other: Simon is down to earth and find himself awkward by Dúa’s eccentric beliefs in astrology, who considers Simon as a typical Scorpio and thus avoid deepening into a more serious relationship, partly because of the feeling of his paternity.\n\nDúa’s falcon, that she nourished and protected when her uncle found it with a broken wing, has a high value to her, as she considers it as the last remnant of the beloved life in Iceland. The falcon travels with them on their escape and has a high monetary value. Later, as Dúa wasted their money, Simon tries to sell the falcon in order to cover with their expenditures, but he is cheated by some crooked Germans and the falcon is stolen.\n\n\nIdentifying the characters of the film with the characteristics of a falcon is a creative means of description, which counteract previous characterizations of bohemian Icelandic artists and American ex-cons. There is, however, a feeble argument to support the immediate and close relationship developed between the two characters.\n\n\"Falcons\" is written in a laconic and subtle style as previous works by director Friðriksson. The film portrays an exquisite visual direction where still landscape is sometimes contrasted by subtle human activity, a resource used without falling into an exaggeration of the landscape immensity, which helps to illustrate the isolation of Simon and Dúa. The characterization of actor Keith Carradine as Simon brings a charismatic presence and strength of personality that is highlighted by talkative Dúa’s naïve and strange personality.\n\nThe soundtrack was also released as a separate CD titled \"Fálkar\". The music composition was mainly in charge of Hilmar Örn Hilmarsson and there were featured several important artists who set up a proper atmosphere to the film’s plot.\n\nProduction: Icelandic Film Corporation, Peter Rommel Productions, Filmhuset AS, Norway and Film and Music Entertainment UK in association with Invicta Capital Ltd., UK & ZDF/Arte, Germany.<br>\nSupport: Eurimages, Icelandic Film Fund, Filmförderung Hamburg, and Nordic Film & TV-Fund.<br>\nDirector: Friðrik Þór Friðriksson.<br>\nProducers: Friðrik Þór Friðriksson, Anna María Karlsdóttir, Peter Rommel, Egil Ödegaard, Mike Downey, and Sam Taylor.<br>\nScript: Einar Kárason and Friðrik Þór Friðriksson.<br>\nProduction design: Árni Páll Jóhannsson.<br>\nCostume Design: Helga I. Stefánsdóttir.<br>\nEditor: Sigvaldi J. Kárason.<br>\nDirector of photography: Harald Paalgard.<br>\nSound Design: Kjartan Kjartansson.<br>\nMusic composed, arranged and produced by: Hilmar Örn Hilmarsson.<br>\nGuitar: Guðlaugur Kristinn Óttarsson, Jón Þór Birgisson, Kristján Edelstein, and Orri Hardarson.<br>\nBass: Georg Bjarnason, and Tómas Magnús Tómasson.<br>\nPercussion: Birgir Baldursson.<br>\nCello: Stefán Örn Arnarson.<br>\nSound Engineers: Georg Bjarnason, and Tómas Magnús Tómasson.<br>\nMusic recorded at the People’s Studio, Reykjavík.<br>\nRe-recording: Kjartan Kjartansson, and Ingvar Lundberg.<br>\nSound editing: Kjartan Kjartansson, Ingvar Lundberg, Steingrímur E. Gudmundsson, Björn Viktorsson, Nicolas Liebing, Vilhjálmur, Godi Friðriksson, Nicolas Pétur Blin, and Magnús Sigurðarson.<br>\nFoley: Gadou Naudin.<br>\nFoley Recording: Steingrímur E. Gudmundsson.<br>\nFoley re-recording: Steingrímur E. Gudmundsson.<br>\nADR Recording: Björn Viktorsson.<br>\nDirector of “Making of”: Ari Alexander Ergis Magnússon.\n\nCommissioning Editor ZDF/ARTE Alexander Bohr.<br>\nLine Producer Iceland Hrönn Kristinsdóttir.<br>\nLine Producer Germany Bernd Lübke.<br>\nScript Consultants Kirsten Bonnén Rask, Martin Rosefeldt, Karin Laudenbach, and Sveinbjörn I. Baldvinsson.<br>\n1st AD Hálfdán Theódórsson.<br>\nHair and Make up Ásta Hafﬂórsdóttir.<br>\nGaffer Örn Marinó Arnarson.<br>\n2nd AC Wencke Hovet.<br>\nGrip: Jónas Gudmundsson, and Valdimar Jóhannsson.<br>\nBest Boy Ingvar Stefánsson.<br>\n2nd AD Harpa Elísa Þórsdóttir, and Dadi Hrafn Sveinbjörnsson.<br>\nContinuity María Valsdóttir.<br>\nElectricians Arnar Einarsson, Hinrik Jónsson, and Sigurður Steinarsson.<br>\nSound Recordist Steingrímur E. Gudmundsson.<br>\nBoom Operator Gudmann Þór Bjargmundsson.<br>\nProperty Master: Thorkell Hardarson.<br>\nAssistant Property Master: Atli Geir Grétarsson.<br>\nAsst. Production Designer: Steingrímur Þorvaldsson.<br>\nAssistant Costume Designer: Maria Valles.<br>\nStill Photographer: Anna Fjóla Gísladóttir.<br>\nCrew Iceland<br>\nCasting Iceland: María Sigurðardóttir.<br>\nSecond Unit: Hálfdán Theódórsson, and Ragnhildur Gísladóttir.<br>\nClapper Loader: Ómar Jabalí, and Raghildur Gísladóttir.<br>\nSFX: Eggert Ketilsson.<br>\nAnimal Trainer: Dennis Pedersen, and Dog Steam Tours.<br>\nRunners: Árni Fannar Sigurðsson, and Lilja Jónsdóttir.<br>\nCarpenters:Jóhannes Karlsson, and Haukur Karlsson.<br>\nDrivers: Alf Wardrum, and Jón Eldjárn.<br>\nCatering: Ásta Búadóttir.<br>\nCrew Germany:<br>\nProduction Co-ordinator: Susanne Steube.<br>\nLocation Managers: Cord Lappe, and Tobias Hering.<br>\nCasting: Eva Schäfer.<br>\n2nd AD: Natascha Oyda.<br>\n3rd AD: Jan Erik Stahl.<br>\nClapper Loader: Timo Schwarz.<br>\nAnimal Trainer Filmtierschule, Tatjana Zimek & Mike Bauer.<br>\nSFX: Tricky Fingers, and Uli Lange Paroll.<br>\nProps Buyer: Till Franzen.<br>\nAssistant Costume: Astrid Pinckernelle.<br>\nStunt co-ordination: Pahuyuth Stunts.<br>\nCatering: Tischlein deck dich! and Isgard Kavugcuoglou.\n\nIcelandic Production Office:<br>\nProduction Co-ordination: Arna M. Gunnarsdóttir, Birna Gunnarsdóttir, and Sigrún Erla Sigurðardóttir.<br>\nFinance Manager: Helgi Már Bjarnason.<br>\nAccountant Sigurður Bjarnason.<br>\nGerman Production office:<br>\nPost-production Manager: Rona Unrau.<br>\nAccountant: Rolf Merkle.\n\nUK Production Office:<br>\nProducer’s Assistant: Kate Barry.<br>\nDevelopment Executive: Sam Lavender.<br>\nAuditors: Malde & Co., Ashish Shah and Sirish Malde.<br>\nLegal Services: Lee and Thompson Solicitors.<br>\nInsurance: Aon Ruben.\n\nNorwegian Production office:<br>\nProducer’s Assistant: Pauline Aasarod.<br>\nSound Studio: Cinemasound ltd.<br>\nLaboratory: Atlantik Film Kopierwerk GmbH, Hamburg, Film Stock, and Kodak.<br>\nCamera Equipment: Maddels Cameras GmbH/Hamburg.<br>\nLegal Services: Tómas Þorvaldsson.<br>\nInsurance: Sjóvá Almennar.\n\nAcknowledgements: Bifreiðar og landbúnaðarvélar, Landsbanki Íslands, Gunnar Carlsson, Jim Stark, Leikfélag Siglufjardar, Lögreglan Sauðárkróki, Íbúar og bæjarstjórn Siglufjarðar, Íbúar Hofsóss, Íbúar Sauðárkróks, Sýslumannsembættið á Keflavíkurflugvelli, Jón Magnússon, Eigendur Þönglaskála, Heimilisfólkið Vogum - Hofsósi, Ásmundur Jónsson, The crew of Maddel Neumann, KuppelFilm GbR, Location & Team-Service Germany, Astron Hotel (staff), Marten Cassens, Kai Imelmann, Noah Matheis, Samo Matheis, Tina Mersmann, Elmar Podlasly, 500 Space Bars: K. Gaiser GmbH (++ LOGO), Hiltronic/Statronic, Hamburgische Schiffszimmerergenossenschaft, HHLA, Herr Hoppe, Hotel Rex, Location office Filmförderung Hamburg, M+V Gaststätte.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2011608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011608", "title": "1971 in country music", "text": "1971 in country music\n\nThis is a list of notable events in country music that took place in the year 1971.\n\n\n\"(as certified by Billboard)\"\n\n\"(as certified by RPM)\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2011619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011619", "title": "Social Affairs and Health Committee", "text": "Social Affairs and Health Committee\n\nThe Social Affairs and Health Committee of the Economic, Social and Cultural Council for the African Union is responsible for:\n\n\nThe Chairperson of the Committee is Helder Francisco Malauene\n"}
{"id": "2011627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011627", "title": "Ground expression", "text": "Ground expression\n\nIn mathematical logic, a ground term of a formal system is a term that does not contain any free variables. Similarly, a ground formula is a formula that does not contain any free variables.\n\nIn first-order logic with identity, the sentence ∀\"x\"(\"x\" = \"x\") is a ground formula. A ground expression is a ground term or ground formula.\n\nConsider the following expressions in first order logic over a signature containing a constant symbol 0 for the number 0, a unary function symbol \"s\" for the successor function and a binary function symbol + for addition.\n\nWhat follows is a formal definition for first-order languages. Let a first-order language be given, with \"C\" the set of constant symbols, \"V\" the set of (individual) variables, \"F\" the set of functional operators, and \"P\" the set of predicate symbols.\n\nGround terms are terms that contain no variables. They may be defined by logical recursion (formula-recursion):\n\nRoughly speaking, the Herbrand universe is the set of all ground terms.\n\nA ground predicate, ground atom or ground literal is an atomic formula all of whose argument terms are ground terms.\n\nIf \"p\" ∈ \"P\" is an \"n\"-ary predicate symbol and α, α, ..., α are ground terms, then \"p\"(α, α, ..., α) is a ground predicate or ground atom.\n\nRoughly speaking, the Herbrand base is the set of all ground atoms, while a Herbrand interpretation assigns a truth value to each ground atom in the base.\n\nA ground formula or ground clause is a formula without free variables.\n\nFormulas with free variables may be defined by syntactic recursion as follows:\n\n"}
{"id": "2011636", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011636", "title": "Thomas J. Quinlan", "text": "Thomas J. Quinlan\n\nThe Reverend Thomas J. Quinlan (April 23, 1929 – April 24, 2012) was a Roman Catholic priest of the Richmond diocese.\n\nFather Quinlan was ordained priest on May 1, 1958, and was named a curate at Blessed Sacrament Parish in Alexandria, Virginia. He started a new parish in Poquoson, Virginia from the beginning and a church was built there. He led the Church of the Holy Parish toward retiring a large debt from its expansion. Father Quinlan was instrumental in providing a Haitian village with a freshwater well and a school by partnering their parish with Holy family. He was also the president of the priest senate in the Richmond diocese.\n\nThe Bishop of Richmond, Most Rev. Francis X. DiLorenzo, retired Father Quinlan in June, 2005 from service at Holy Family in Virginia Beach. A Christmas Eve homily, which made references to Mary's humanly giving birth to Jesus, offended some members of the parish and was reported to Bishop DiLorenzo. However many members of the Parish stood up for and appealed to the Bishop to retain Father Quinlan.\n\nFather Quinlan's homiletic language was vulgar and disrespectful, and there were some instances of sacrilegious behavior at Mass. According to local newspapers, Father Quinlan drove a Volkswagen down the aisle during a Palm Sunday procession at Good Shepherd Catholic Church. At another Palm Sunday Mass, \"T.Q.\" drove a three-ton forklift down the center aisle at The Basilica of St. Mary of the Immaculate Conception in Norfolk VA. Jet Magazine, August 18, 1977 The \"yellow brick road\" imagery was a metaphor for Jesus' pilgrimage to Jerusalem. Father Quinlan occasionally costumed himself as The Grinch or as Superman at the beginning of a Mass. Another endeavor included a psychedelic Mass with lighting effects.\n\nOn 30 January 2006, \"The Catholic Virginian\" (the official newspaper of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Richmond), printed the following regarding Fr. Quinlan:\n\n\"The Rev. Thomas Quinlan, a retired priest of the Diocese of Richmond, can no longer celebrate the sacraments publicly. He can celebrate Mass privately. Bishop DiLorenzo said he took this action as a response to Father Quinlan's behavior that has 'engendered anxiety and emotional upset which interferes with an individual's religious experience.'\"\n"}
{"id": "2011637", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011637", "title": "Counterion", "text": "Counterion\n\nA counterion (pronounced as two words, i.e. \"counter\" \"ion\", and sometimes written as two words) is the ion that accompanies an ionic species in order to maintain electric neutrality. In table salt (NaCl), the sodium ion (positively charged) is the counterion for the chlorine ion (negatively charged) and vice versa.\nA counterion will be more commonly referred to as an anion or a cation, depending on whether it is negatively or positively charged. Thus, the counterion to an anion will be a cation, and vice-versa.\n\nCounterions are the mobile ions in ion exchange polymers and colloids. Ion exchange resins are polymers with a net negative or positive charge. Cation exchange resins consist of an anionic polymer with countercations, typically Na (sodium). The resin has a higher affinity for highly charged countercations, e.g., by Ca (calcium) in the case of water softening. Complementarily, anion exchange resins are typically provided in the form of chloride Cl, which is a highly mobile couteranion.\n\nCounterions are used in phase-transfer catalysis. In a typical application lipophilic countercation such as benzalkonium solubilizes reagents in organic solvents.\n\nSolubility of salts in organic solvents is a function of both the cation and the anion. The solubility of cations in organic solvents can be enhanced when the anion is lipophilic. Similarly, the solubility of anions in organic solvents is enhanced with lipophilic cations. The most common lipophilic cations are quaternary ammonium cations, called \"quat salts\".\n\nMany cationic organometallic complexes are isolated with inert, noncoordinating counterions. Ferrocenium tetrafluoroborate is one such example.\n\nIn order to achieve high ionic conductivity, electrochemical measurements are conducted in the presence of excess electrolyte. In water the electrolyte is often a simple salt such as potassium chloride. For measurements in nonaqueous solutions, salts composed of both lipophilic cations and anions are employed, e.g., tetrabutylammonium hexafluorophosphate. Even in such cases potentials are influenced by ion-pairing, an effect that is accentuated in solvents of low dielectric constant.\n\nFor many applications, the counterion simply provides charge and lipophilicity that allows manipulation of its partner ion. The counterion is expected to be chemically inert. For counteranions, inertness is expressed in terms of low Lewis basicity. The counterions are ideally rugged and unreactive. For quaternary ammonium and phosphonium countercations, inertness is related to their resistance of degradation by strong bases and strong nucleophiles.\n"}
{"id": "2011640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011640", "title": "Pieter Jansz. Saenredam", "text": "Pieter Jansz. Saenredam\n\nPieter Jansz. Saenredam (9 June 1597 - buried 31 May 1665) was a painter of the Dutch Golden Age, known for his distinctive paintings of whitewashed church interiors such as \"Interior of St Bavo's Church in Haarlem\" and \"Interior of the Sint-Odulphuskerk in Assendelft\".\n\nSaenredam was born in Assendelft, the son of the Northern Mannerist printmaker and draughtsman Jan Pietersz Saenredam whose sensuous naked goddesses are in great contrast with the work of his son. In 1612 Saenredam moved permanently to Haarlem, where he became a pupil of Frans de Grebber. In 1614 he became a member of the Haarlem Guild of St. Luke. A drawing in the British Museum by his friend Jacob Van Campen shows him to be very short and hunch backed. He died in Haarlem.\n\nSaenredam was a contemporary of the painter-architects Jacob van Campen, Salomon de Bray, and Pieter Post.\n\nSaenredam specialized in the representation of church interiors. These pictures were based on precise measurements of the building and meticulously-rendered sketches, done on site, in pencil, pen, and chalk, after which washes were applied. Painting took place in the studio, often years after the studies were made.\n\nSaenredam's emphasis on even light and geometry is brought out by comparing his works with those of the rather younger Emanuel de Witte, who included people, contrasts of light and such clutter of church furniture as remained in Calvinist churches, all usually ignored by Saenredam. Unlike de Witte's, Saenredam's views are usually roughly aligned with a main axis of the church.\n\nSaenredam's paintings frequently show medieval churches, usually Gothic, but sometimes late Romanesque, which had been stripped bare of their original decorations after the iconoclasm of the Protestant Reformation. Although Utrecht was the centre of the remaining Catholic population of the mainly Calvinist United Provinces, all the old churches were retained by the Protestants. The drawing for Saenredam's \"Interior of St. Martin's Cathedral, Utrecht\" (above) is typical. As a Catholic church the Cathedral had been highly decorated. Then, in the Dutch Revolt the church fell into Protestant hands, it was ‘cleaned’ of Catholic influences. The altarpieces and statuary were removed, and the walls and ceiling were white washed.\n\nAlternatively, the paintings of church interiors by Saenredam and other 17th-century Dutch painters have been interpreted as having less to do with religion and more with the new-found interest in perspective and with the Dutch interpretation (known as Dutch Classicism) of Palladio’s theories of proportion, balance and symmetry.\nIn any case, Saenredam wanted to record this time of change by documenting the country’s buildings. Many artists before him had specialized in imaginary and fanciful architecture, but Saenredam was one of the first to focus on existing buildings. According to the J. Paul Getty Trust \"Saenredam’s church paintings...owe their poetry to his remarkable blend of fact and fiction. He began by making site drawings of buildings that record measurements and detail with archaeological thoroughness.\" This meticulous preparation helped him to create such accurate and enchanting paintings. The measurements aided him in using scientific linear perspective, just like Andrea Pozzo. He was able to use his measurements to create a realistic image with depth.\n\nThere are a small number of Saenredam's works in British collections but the Utrecht Archives houses a large number of Saenredam's drawings. In 2000-2001 the Centraal Museum at Utrecht held a major exhibition of his drawings and paintings.\nPerhaps his best known works are a matching pair of oil paintings both titled \"Interior of the Buurkerk, Utrecht\". One hangs in London's National Gallery, the other in the Kimbell Art Museum in Fort Worth, Texas. In their simplicity and semi-abstract formalism, they foreshadow more modern works such as those of Mondrian and Feininger.\n\nIn July 2012 a picture of Saenredam's village at Assendelft was sold at Christie's for more than £3,500,000. Six months earlier it was entered into a Christie's sale advertised as by a follower of Saenredam with an estimate of between £3,000-5,000 before being withdrawn from sale.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2011650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011650", "title": "Vilassar de Dalt", "text": "Vilassar de Dalt\n\nVilassar de Dalt () is a village in Catalonia, Spain, in the province of Barcelona and the \"comarca\" of Maresme. The name comes from the Roman name \"Villa Azari\", later changed to \"Vilassar\". In the 20th century, it split into two villages: Vilassar in the hills (de Dalt), and Vilassar by the Sea (de Mar).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2011657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011657", "title": "Cordillera Mountains", "text": "Cordillera Mountains\n\nCordillera Mountains may refer to:\n"}
{"id": "2011658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011658", "title": "Tenmon", "text": "Tenmon\n"}
{"id": "2011665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011665", "title": "Battle of Minisink", "text": "Battle of Minisink\n\nThe Battle of Minisink was a battle of the American Revolutionary War fought at Minisink Ford, New York, on July 22, 1779. It was the only major skirmish of the Revolutionary War fought in the northern Delaware Valley. The battle was a decisive British victory, as the colonial militia was hastily assembled, ill-equipped, and inexperienced.\n\nAlthough British forces were largely concentrated on Manhattan Island, Joseph Brant, a Mohawk war chief and a Captain in the British Army, was sent along with his Brant's Volunteers on a quest for provisions, to gather intelligence on the Delaware in the vicinity of Minisink, and to disrupt the upcoming American Sullivan Campaign.\n\nIn July 1779, he received word that Kazimierz Pulaski's forces had moved into Pennsylvania, leaving much of the Delaware Valley undefended. Brant led his force of Loyalists and Iroquois raiders through the valley, with the goal of seizing supplies and demoralizing the colonists. With Brant's force of 60 tribesmen and 27 Tories disguised as Indians in pursuit, the settlers were forced to flee to more populated areas. On July 20, he reached Peenpack, which he attacked immediately. Brant ordered that \"they should not kill any women or children\" or Loyalists and to take prisoner any who surrendered. His raid was a crushing success and, leaving Fort Decker and the settlement in ruins, Brant and his force continued north along the Delaware River.\n\nLater that day, riders from Peenpack reached the village of Goshen, telling of Brant's raid and the destruction of the town. A militia formed immediately, under the reluctant command of Lieutenant Colonel Benjamin Tusten. Tusten was strongly opposed to pursuing the raiders, as he knew they would be no match for the British and Iroquois soldiers, and he suggested waiting for reinforcements from the Continental Army. However, the majority of the public and the militia underestimated the fighting ability of the Iroquois and demanded immediate retribution. Outvoted, Tusten agreed to set out the following morning. They met up with elements of the Fourth Orange County Regiment ordered from Warwick by George Washington and led by Colonel John Hathorn. Colonel Hathorn assumed command and marched for the Delaware with a force of about 120 minutemen.\nOn the morning of July 22, the militia moved into position in the hills above the Delaware River, intending to ambush Brant's forces who were crossing at Minisink Ford. Hathorn split them into a group of skirmishers and two units comprising the main force. Before the ambush was set, however, Captain Bezaleel Tyler III of the militia, an experienced Indian fighter, fired at an Indian scout in Brant's party. This alerted Brant to the trap, and he quickly outflanked the two groups of colonials, many of whom fled. Separated from the main unit and with his forces scattered, Hathorn was unable to regroup his men for a counterattack. Some of his men were forced to retreat, leaving the rest of the militia surrounded and outnumbered. After several hours of continuous volleys, insufficient ammunition and close quarters caused the battle to devolve into hand-to-hand combat, at which the Iroquois excelled. At least 48 militiamen were killed, including Tusten himself. Brant's men gave no quarter to the wounded and captured, killing and scalping over 40 of them. One prisoner, Captain John Wood, was spared because Brant mistakenly believed him to be a fellow Mason. Brant's force, on the other hand, is believed to have lost only about seven men. Brant wrote of his casualties that three were killed and of the 10 wounded, 4 were dangerously wounded and possibly could not survive. Although badly wounded, Hathorn survived, returning to Warwick to write his report of the loss to his superiors.\n\nAfter the battle, Brant and his men forded the Delaware and continued back to the ruins of Oquaga. The raid failed to disrupt the Sullivan Campaign and three weeks later, the Continental Army sent 3,000 troops into upstate New York, destroying every Iroquois village in their path. Brant finally met his defeat in late August at the Battle of Newtown.\n\nThe people of the Precinct of Goshen (which preceded the forming of the Towns of Orange County) were unable to bury their dead for 43 years, as the battlefield was too distant and the way too dangerous. Some of the soldiers' widows attempted the trip, but were forced to turn back. In 1822, a committee was formed to travel to the battlefield and comb the area for remains. The few bones recovered were buried in a mass grave, first in Barryville and later moved to the village of Goshen. A stone obelisk was erected for the centennial of the battle, engraved with the names of the dead.\n\nIn 1847, a burial was discovered in Lackawaxen, Pennsylvania that is believed to be the remains of a casualty of the Battle of Minisink. The site now serves as a memorial tomb for unknown Revolutionary War soldiers.\n\nToday, the site is Minisink Battleground County Park in Sullivan County a couple of miles north of the Hamlet of Barryville near the Roebling Bridge. There are no man-made structures contemporary to the battle, but the park contains several trails, monuments, picnic areas, and a visitors' center.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2011670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011670", "title": "Infrastructure and Energy Committee", "text": "Infrastructure and Energy Committee\n\nThe Infrastructure and Energy Committee of the African Union's Economic, Social and Cultural Council is responsible for: Energy, Transport, Communications, Infrastructure and Tourism.\n\nThe Chairperson of the Committee is Dr Gowtam Raj Chintaram of Mauritius, with the Secretary being Mr Patson Malisa of South Africa.\n\nGuided by the deliberations of the Nairobi Meeting on the operationalization of Sectoral Cluster Committees as stipulated in Article 11 of the ECOSOCC Statutes, the Infrastructure and Energy cluster convened in Cairo for the Constitutive Meeting for the Activation of the Sectoral Cluster Committee.\n\nDr Chintaram gave the Keynote Address in which he thanked the Presiding Officer, the Secretariat and the staff of both CIDO and ECOSOCC for their efforts to ensure the successful activation of our cluster. He went on to highlight the focus areas of initial operation to be partnerships with Continental Stakeholders, Air Access, Sustainable Transport, Communication, Renewable Energy and Tourism. He emphasized that Agenda 2063 would be the guiding document throughout deliberations for the work plan.\n\nThe session then received three presentations from Cluster members, Mr. Samuel Dotse, Dr Malick Sane and Mr. Patson Malisa.\nMr Dotse gave a presentation on Energy Solutions in the wake of Climate Change. He emphasized on the need of the IE cluster to adopt a climate-sensitive approach in its work-plans and future advocacies.\n\nDr Sane expanded on the issues surrounding Sustainable Transport Policy in Africa. In his presentation he gave an overview on the Negative Externalities of transport in Africa, the Concept, Policy, Promotion and Practice of Sustainable Transport in Africa.\nMr Patson Malisa gave a speech on enhancing Air Transport to realise the goals of Agenda 2063. He advocated that the infrastructure and Energy Cluster Deliberates on instituting a mechanism for establishing a policy position on meeting the goals of Air Transport Market Liberation based on the ensuring of Enhanced Cooperation, Cost Effectiveness, Security and Succession He highlighted the need for the IE Cluster to encourage the members of the African Union to move forward in implementation of the Yamoussoukro Declaration by establishing a Single Air Transport Market as affirmed by Assembly/AU/Dec.1(XXIV): Declaration on the Establishment of a Single Air Transport Market.\n\nThe opening session was followed by two extended working sessions over a two-day period. Subsequently, the Cluster meeting was concluded on 8 April 2016 with the following conclusions and recommendations:\n\nI. On the Mandate of the Infrastructure and Energy Cluster\n\na) The Committee recognized that its mandate of operation was derived from the ECOSOCC Statutes and specifically Article 11(c). Article 11 provided the legal framework for the establishment of ten (10) Sectoral Cluster Committees as key operational mechanisms of ECOSOCC to formulate opinions and provide inputs into the policies and programmes of the African Union. Article 11(c) then spells out the core areas of the mandate of the Infrastructure and Energy Cluster as including Energy, Transport, Communication, Infrastructure and Tourism etc.\nAs such, we have also embraced the need for us to be conscious of the environmental impact of Infrastructure Development on Climate Change and factors propagating it. Thus, our efforts are to be in promotion of ensuring that these developments are implemented in the spirit of the African Common Position on Climate Change. This will be manifested in the formulation of policies on key infrastructure issues such as the production of an Africa Sustainable Transport Policy etc. \nb) The Committee also recognized the need for its programmes and workplan to give priority to programs on forging partnerships with Continental Stakeholders, Air Access and transport, Climate Change, Renewable Energy and Tourism. Agenda 2063 was the guiding document throughout deliberations for the work plan.\nII. On Structure and Category of Membership\nThe Cluster devised a generic framework for Sectoral Cluster Committees and proposed the same to be adopted by other clusters to ensure homogeneity in cluster composition and operations. The core team of members present for the meeting would henceforth be known as Cluster Steering Group (CSG).\n\nIt was agreed that the Cluster would distribute its membership in the following order:\n• Cluster Steering Group\n• Cluster Members\n• Pro-Bono Experts and Consultants\n\nThe Cluster Steering group would comprise the following portfolios:\n- Chairperson\n- Cluster Secretary\n- Coordinator for CSO & Stakeholders Engagement\n- Coordinator for Financing, Projects and Monitoring\n- Coordinator for Strategic Planning & Partnerships\n- Coordinator for Research and Policy\n\nIII. CSO Engagement\nCSO Mapping would be conducted via the Infrastructure and Energy Webpage via google links as well as social media adverts as the budget permits.\n\nIV On Partnerships\nIt was agreed that Phase 1 of our Partnerships strategy would be initiated from the month of May till June 2016. Amongst other stakeholders, we have identified The Africa Development Bank, NEPAD, The United Nations Commission for Africa, SADC and ECOWAS as partners for engagement in this phase. This phase will aim to enhance the capacity of the cluster for future collaborative work. \nWe will also Launch a Phase 1 engagement of Research Institutions in the continent for collaborative efforts in attaining information for the producing of Advisory Opinions and Policy Briefs. The first institutions to be approached will be the Pan African University and the University of Energy and Natural Resources (Ghana).\nVI General Issues\nThe CSG agreed to a communication strategy that embraces ICT platforms for the dissemination of information and regular contact amongst members of the Cluster. This would primarily be implemented through the already running ENS ( enterprise social networking) platform, Groupspaces set up for the Cluster. It was also agreed that a newsletter would be released periodically for the popularization of the work being conducted by the IE Cluster. It was further agreed that the CSG will meet in ordinary sessions twice a year.\n"}
{"id": "2011688", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011688", "title": "Port Charlotte, Islay", "text": "Port Charlotte, Islay\n\nPort Charlotte () is a village on the island of Islay in the Inner Hebrides, Scotland. It was founded in 1828. In 1991 it had a population of 350.\n\nPort Charlotte was named after Lord Frederick Campbell's wife, and it was set up mainly to provide housing facilities for the Lochindaal Distillery work force. Parts of the former distillery buildings are now in use as Youth Hostel and Wildlife Centre. Others are currently used by a garage nearby. The remaining warehouses are currently owned and used by Bruichladdich distillery to mature their Port Charlotte heavily peated spirit, named in tribute to the village and original distillery.\n\nThe village is located on the shores of Loch Indaal and is very picturesque with its white painted houses. It is home to the Museum of Islay Life which is located in a former Church building.\n\nIn October 1813, the American privateer \"The True Blooded Yankee\" captured six merchant ships lying at Port Charlotte, casting them adrift and setting fire to three.\n\n"}
{"id": "2011690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011690", "title": "Surface bundle over the circle", "text": "Surface bundle over the circle\n\nIn mathematics, a surface bundle over the circle is a fiber bundle with base space a circle, and with fiber space a surface. Therefore the total space has dimension 2 + 1 = 3. In general, fiber bundles over the circle are a special case of mapping tori.\n\nHere is the construction: take the Cartesian product of a surface with the unit interval. Glue the two copies of the surface, on the boundary, by some homeomorphism. This homeomorphism is called the monodromy of the surface bundle. It is possible to show that the homeomorphism type of the bundle obtained depends only on the conjugacy class, in the mapping class group, of the gluing homeomorphism chosen. \n\nThis construction is an important source of examples both in the field of low-dimensional topology as well as in geometric group theory. In the former we find that the geometry of the three-manifold is determined by the dynamics of the homeomorphism. This is the fibered part of Thurston's geometrization theorem for Haken manifolds, whose proof requires the Nielsen–Thurston classification for surface homeomorphisms as well as deep results in the theory of Kleinian groups. In geometric group theory the fundamental groups of such bundles give an important class of HNN-extensions: that is, extensions of the fundamental group of the fiber (a surface) by the integers.\n\nA simple special case of this construction (considered in Poincaré's foundational paper) is that of a torus bundle.\n\n"}
{"id": "2011691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011691", "title": "Cold Fever", "text": "Cold Fever\n\nCold Fever () is a 1995 Icelandic film directed by Friðrik Þór Friðriksson. It is a road movie set in Iceland and was the first of Friðrik's films to be made in the English language. The movie depicts the travels of a Japanese man across Iceland. It was jokingly promoted as the best Icelandic-Japanese road movie of 1995.\n\nHirata is a successful Japanese businessman whose plan for a two-week winter holiday in Hawaii to play golf changes when his elderly grandfather reminds him that he should go to Iceland.\n\nHirata's parents died there seven years ago, and the seven year death anniversary is a significant event in Japanese culture. Hirata must perform a ceremony in the river where they died after drowning in an avalanche – the drowned must be fed by the surviving family members if they are to find peace.\n\nHirata arrives in Reykjavík, Iceland. His final destination is a remote river on the far side of the island. He encounters one mishap and misadventure after another. He first accidentally gets on a wrong bus filled with German tourists traveling to see the hot springs. He also confronts a language barrier; Hirata cannot speak any Icelandic, and knows very little English. After his first day's misadventures, Hirata decides to purchase an ancient, bright red Citroën DS to make the journey. During the long drive, Hirata meets several strange people along the way. These include the mystical woman who sells him the car, that only plays one radio station. Next, Hirata meets a local woman who collects photographs of funerals. The following day, Hirata meets Jack and Jill, two American hitchhikers, who turn out to be armed and dangerous fugitives who proceed to steal his car. Nearing his destination on foot, Hirata arrives in a small village where he meets an old man named Siggi, the owner of a local lodge who teaches Hirata how to drink the most potent alcoholic beverage in Iceland.\n\nAfter explaining his determination to travel to where his parents died, Hirata is aided by Siggi who borrows a pair of Icelandic horses from a local farmer, and the two of them travel on horseback to Hirata's destination. After riding across an ice cap glacier, over a ridge and into the valley where Hirata's parents died, he dismounts and tells Siggi that he must go on alone to complete his journey. After traversing a rickety bridge to the river, Hirata arrives at the river bank where he performs his cleansing ceremony at last. He then rejoins Siggi waiting for him and they both ride on their horses down a gully where they make it to a beach and the final shot shows them riding down the coast towards a nearby coastal village which hopefully will have a ferry to take Hirata back to Reykjavik and presumably back to Japan.\n\n\n\nOn review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes, the film holds an approval rating of 95% based on 20 reviews, and an average rating of 7.5/10.\n\n\"The Goddess of 1967\", another movie in which a successful Japanese man travels foreign land in a newly purchased bright (this time pink) 1967 Citroen DS and meets strange characters, though this time in Australia.\n\n"}
{"id": "2011694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011694", "title": "List of Late Quaternary prehistoric bird species", "text": "List of Late Quaternary prehistoric bird species\n\nLate Quaternary prehistoric birds are avian taxa that became extinct during the Late Quaternary – the Holocene or Late Pleistocene – and before recorded history, or more precisely, before they could be studied alive by ornithological science. They became extinct before the period of global scientific exploration that started in the late 15th century. In other words, this list basically deals with extinctions between 40,000 BC and 1500 AD. For the purposes of this article, a \"bird\" is any member of the clade Neornithes, that is, any descendant of the most recent common ancestor of all currently living birds.\n\nThe birds are known from their remains, which are subfossil (not fossilized, or not completely fossilized). Some are also known from folk memory, as in the case of Haast's eagle in New Zealand. As the remains are not completely fossilized, they may yield organic material for molecular analyses to provide additional clues for resolving their taxonomic affiliations.\n\nThe extinction of the taxa in this list was coincident with the expansion of \"Homo sapiens\" beyond Africa and Eurasia, and in most cases, anthropogenic factors have played a crucial part in their extinction, be it through hunting, introduced predators or habitat alteration. It is notable that a large proportion of the species are from oceanic islands, especially in Polynesia. Bird taxa that evolved on oceanic islands are usually very vulnerable to hunting or predation by rats, cats, dogs or pigs – animals commonly introduced by humans – as they evolved in the absence of mammalian predators, and therefore have only rudimentary predator avoidance behavior. Many, especially rails, have additionally become flightless for the same reason and thus presented even easier prey.\n\nTaxon extinctions taking place before the Late Quaternary happened in the absence of significant human interference. Rather, reasons for extinction are stochastic abiotic events such as bolide impacts, climate changes, mass volcanic eruptions etc. Alternatively, species may have gone extinct due to evolutionary displacement by successor or competitor taxa – it is notable for example that in the early Neogene, seabird biodiversity was much higher than today; this is probably due to competition by the radiation of marine mammals after that time. The relationships of these ancient birds are often hard to determine, as many are known only from very fragmentary remains and complete fossilization precludes analysis of information from DNA, RNA or protein sequencing.\n\nThe taxa in this list should be classified with the \"Prehistoric\" in their individual accounts.\n\nAll of these are Neornithes.\n\nThe ostrich and related ratites.\n\nAn extinct clade of massive galloansere birds.\n\nThe group that includes modern ducks and geese.\n\nThe group that includes modern chickens and quails.\n\nTrue Galliformes\n\nGulls, auks, shorebirds\n\nThe group that includes modern rails and cranes.\n\n\n\n\n\nThe group that includes modern boobies and cormorants.\n\nThe group that includes modern flamingos\n\nThe group that includes modern albatrosses, petrels and storm petrels.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nBirds of prey\n\n\nNightjars and potoos\n\nOwlet-nightjars\n\nSwifts and hummingbirds.\n\nHornbills and relatives. Formerly included in Coraciiformes.\n\nWoodpeckers, puffbird and jacamars.\n\n\nOwls and barn owls.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2011698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011698", "title": "United States v. Carroll Towing Co.", "text": "United States v. Carroll Towing Co.\n\nUnited States v. Carroll Towing Co., 159 F.2d 169 (2d. Cir. 1947), is a decision from the 2nd Circuit Court of Appeals that proposed a test to determine the standard of care for the tort of negligence. The judgment was written by Judge Learned Hand wherein he described what is now called the calculus of negligence or the Hand Test, a classic example of a balancing test.\n\nThe case was the result of the sinking of the barge \"Anna C\" that took place on January 4, 1944 in New York Harbor. The Pennsylvania Railroad Company chartered the \"Anna C\" from Conners Marine Company, which was loaded with flour owned by the United States. Before the accident, the \"Anna C\" was moored at Pier 52 on the North River along with several other barges. The barges at Pier 52 were tied together by mooring lines and one barge at Pier 52 was tied to another set of barges at the adjacent Public Pier. On the day of the accident the tug \"Carroll\" was sent to remove a barge from the Public Pier. In the process of removing the barge, the line between the barges at Pier 52 and the barges at the Public Pier was removed. After the removal of the line, the barges at Pier 52 broke free. This resulted in the sinking of \"Anna C\". The United States, lessee of the \"Anna C\", sued Carroll Towing Co., owner of the \"Carroll\" in an indemnity action.\n\nThe author of the opinion, Judge Learned Hand, stated that there was no general rule with which to deal with liability when a barge with no one on board breaks free and causes damage. Consequently, Judge Hand proposed an algebraic formula to determine if the standard of care has been met. \n\nSimply put, the test says:\nIf (Burden < Cost of Injury × Probability of occurrence), then the accused will not have met the standard of care required.\n\nIf (Burden ≥ Cost of injury × Probability of occurrence), then the accused may have met the standard of care.\n\nOn the facts, the Court ruled that leaving a barge unattended during the daylight hours poses significant risk such that it would be fair to require a crew member to be aboard the ship. Thus, the accused was found liable for negligence for being absent from the ship without excuse.\n\nThis case is most famous for its first expression of Judge Hand's formula, C > GL (cost is greater than gravity of loss) or in the more common shorthand, BPL. This formula was first suggested, however, in The T.J. Hooper, another tugboat case.\n"}
{"id": "2011705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011705", "title": "Jack Unterweger", "text": "Jack Unterweger\n\nJohann \"Jack\" Unterweger (16 August 195129 June 1994) was an Austrian serial killer who committed murder in several countries. Initially convicted in 1974 of a single murder, Unterweger began to write extensively while in prison. His work gained the attention of the Austrian literary elite, who took it as evidence that he had been rehabilitated. After significant lobbying, Unterweger was released on parole in 1990.\n\nAfter his release, Unterweger became a minor celebrity and worked as a playwright and journalist, but within months he began to kill women serially. After being convicted of an additional nine murders in 1994, he committed suicide in prison by hanging himself.\n\nJack Unterweger was born in 1951 to Theresia Unterweger, a Viennese barmaid and waitress, and an unknown American soldier whom she met in Trieste, Italy. Some sources describe his mother as a sex worker. Unterweger's mother was jailed for fraud while pregnant but was released and travelled to Graz, where he was born. After his mother was arrested again in 1953, Unterweger was sent to Carinthia to live with his grandfather, who was known as a \"rough fellow\" who regularly used his grandson to help him steal farm animals.\n\nUnterweger was in and out of prison for much of his youth. He worked as a waiter, but between 1966 and 1974 he was convicted sixteen times, mostly for theft-related offences, but also for pimping and sexual assault on a sex worker; he spent most of those eight years in jail.\n\nIn 1974, Unterweger murdered 18-year-old German citizen Margaret Schäfer by strangling her with her own bra, and in 1976 he was convicted and sentenced to life in prison. While imprisoned, he wrote short stories, poems, plays, and an autobiography, \"Purgatory or The Trip to Prison – Report of a Guilty Man\", that later served as the basis for a documentary.\n\nIn 1985, a campaign to pardon and release Unterweger from prison began. Austrian President Rudolf Kirchschläger (SPÖ/ÖVP) refused the petition when presented to him, citing the court-mandated minimum of fifteen years in prison. Writers, artists, journalists and politicians agitated for a pardon, including the author and 2004 Nobel Prize winner Elfriede Jelinek; Günter Grass; Peter Huemer; and the editor of the magazine \"Manuskripte\", Alfred Kolleritsch.\n\nUnterweger was released on 23 May 1990, after the required minimum fifteen years of his life term. Upon his release, his autobiography was taught in schools and his stories for children were performed on Austrian radio. Unterweger himself hosted television programs which discussed criminal rehabilitation, and he worked as a reporter for the public broadcaster ORF, where he reported on stories concerning the very murders for which he was later found guilty.\n\nLaw enforcement later found that Unterweger killed a sex worker named Blanka Bockova in Czechoslovakia, and seven more in Austria in 1990 (Brunhilde Masser, 39; Heidi Hammerer, 31; Elfriede Schrempf, 35; Silvia Zagler, 23; Sabine Moitzl, 25; Karin Eroglu-Sladky, 25; Regina Prem, 32) in the first year after his release, all garroted with their bras. In 1991, Unterweger was hired by an Austrian magazine to write about crime in Los Angeles, California, and the differences between U.S. and European attitudes to prostitution. Unterweger met with local police, even going so far as to participate in a ride-along of the city's red light districts. During Unterweger's time in Los Angeles, three sex workers Shannon Exley, Irene Rodriguez, and Peggy Booth were beaten, sexually assaulted with tree branches, and strangled with their own bras.\n\nIn Austria, Unterweger was suggested as a suspect for the sex worker murders. In the absence of other suspects, the police took a serious look at Unterweger and kept him under surveillance until he went to the U.S. ostensibly as a reporter observing nothing to connect him with the murders.\n\nPolice in Graz eventually had enough evidence to issue a warrant for Unterweger's arrest, but he had fled by the time they entered his home. After law enforcement agencies chased him and his girlfriend, Bianca Mrak, through Switzerland, France, and the U.S., he was finally arrested by the U.S. Marshals in Miami, Florida on 27 February 1992. While a fugitive, he had called the Austrian media to try to convince them of his innocence. \n\nUnterweger was extradited to Austria on 27 May 1992, and charged with eleven homicides, including one which had occurred in Prague and three in Los Angeles. The jury found him guilty of nine murders by a 6:2 majority (sufficient for a conviction under Austrian law at the time). Based on psychiatric examination, Austrian psychiatrist Dr. Reinhard Haller diagnosed Unterweger with narcissistic personality disorder and presented his findings to the court on 20 June 1994. On 29 June 1994, he was sentenced to life in prison without possibility of parole.\n\nThat night, Unterweger committed suicide at Graz-Karlau Prison by hanging himself with a rope made from shoelaces and a cord from the trousers of a track suit, using the same knot that was found on all the strangled prostitutes.\n\nPrior to his death, Unterweger had asserted his intention to seek an appeal, and therefore, under Austrian law, his guilty verdict was not considered legally binding after his death, as it has not been reviewed and confirmed by the court.\n\nIn a 2008 performance, actor John Malkovich portrayed Unterweger's life in a performance entitled \"Seduction and Despair,\" which premiered at Barnum Hall in Santa Monica, California. A fully staged version of the production, entitled \"The Infernal Comedy\" premiered in Vienna in July 2009. The show has since been performed throughout Europe, North America and South America.\n\nIn 2015, Elisabeth Scharang directed a film called \"Jack\" about Unterweger.\n\nIn 2016, Broad Green Pictures announced the development of a film version of the 2007 book \"Entering Hades\", with Michael Fassbender attached to star.\n\nThe story of the police investigation, pursuit and prosecution of Unterweger is the subject of an episode of \"The FBI Files\" titled \"Killer Abroad\" (Season 2, Episode 14). He is also the subject of an episode of Biography titled \"Poet of Death\".\n\nAustrian musician Falco's controversial song \"Jeanny (Part-I)\" depicts a murder and rapist's thoughts, and its promotional video contains a number of references to crime scenes both real and fictional; while the \"news break\" in it (which is also heard in the song) refers in an oblique way to Unterweger, who was still in jail at the time of the single's release.\n\nThe Investigation Discovery Channel's true crime series \"Horror at the Cecil Hotel's\" premiere episode 1402 told Unterweger's story. The episode aired on Monday October 16, 2017.\n"}
{"id": "2011723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011723", "title": "John Bower Lewis", "text": "John Bower Lewis\n\nJohn Bower Lewis, (March 18, 1817 – January 24, 1874) was the second mayor of Bytown in 1848, the first mayor of Ottawa from 1855 to 1857, and a member of the 2nd Canadian Parliament from 1872 to 1873.\n\nHe was born in Paris, France in 1817 and came to Canada with his family in 1820. He studied law in Toronto, was admitted to the bar in 1839, and became a Queen's Counsel in 1867.\n\nHe was elected to the first council for Bytown in 1847 and became mayor in 1848. After Bytown was renamed to Ottawa in 1854, he became its first mayor. He was police commissioner for the city in 1863. In 1872, he was elected to the House of Commons as a Conservative in the two-member riding of Ottawa City but resigned in 1873 due to the Pacific Scandal.\n\nHe died in Ottawa in 1874; he was the city solicitor and was also campaigning for reelection to the House of Commons at the time of his death.\n\n"}
{"id": "2011728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011728", "title": "Intelligent device management", "text": "Intelligent device management\n\nIntelligent device management is a technology used for enterprise software applications that allow equipment manufacturers to monitor and manage remote equipment, systems and products via the Internet. Another term for intelligent device management is remote device management (RDM) while strategic service management describes the service.\n\nIDM extends IT service management to on-site devices and can support standard service processes, such as Incident, Problem, Change, Configuration Management as defined by ITIL.\n\nThis technology is commonly used by ATM, security and self-service kiosk companies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2011729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011729", "title": "Mojo (magazine)", "text": "Mojo (magazine)\n\nMojo is a popular music magazine published initially by Emap, and since January 2008 by Bauer, monthly in the United Kingdom. Following the success of the magazine \"Q\", publishers Emap were looking for a title that would cater for the burgeoning interest in classic rock music. \"Mojo\" was first published on 15 October 1993; in keeping with its classic rock aesthetic, the first issue had Bob Dylan and John Lennon as its first cover stars. Noted for its in-depth coverage of both popular and cult acts, it acted as the inspiration for \"Blender\" and \"Uncut\". Many noted music critics have written for it, including Charles Shaar Murray, Greil Marcus, Nick Kent, Jon Savage and Sylvie Simmons. The launch editor of \"Mojo\" was Paul Du Noyer and his successors have included Mat Snow, Paul Trynka and Pat Gilbert.\n\nWhile some criticise it for its frequent coverage of classic rock acts such as the Beatles and Bob Dylan, it has nevertheless featured many newer and \"left-field\" acts. It was the first mainstream magazine in the UK to focus on the White Stripes, whom it has covered as zealously as it has many older acts.\n\n\"Mojo\" regularly includes a covermount CD that ties in with a current magazine article or theme. It introduced the \"Mojo\" Honours list, an awards ceremony that is a mixture of readers' and critics' awards, in 2004.\n\nIn early 2010, \"Mojo\" was involved in a controversial move by its new parent company, Bauer, to unilaterally impose a new contract on all photographers and writers, taking away their copyright, and offloading liability for libel or copyright infringement from the publisher onto the contributor. Two hundred photographers and writers from \"Mojo\" and Bauer's other music magazines, \"Kerrang!\" and \"Q\", were reported as refusing to work under the new terms.\n\nMore recently, the magazine has taken to publishing many \"Top 100\" lists, including the subjects of drug songs (\"Mojo\" #109), rock epics (\"Mojo\" #125), protest songs (\"Mojo\" #126) and even the most miserable songs of all time (\"Mojo\" #127). To celebrate 150 issues, the magazine published a \"Top 100 Albums of Mojo's Lifetime\" list (essentially 1993 onwards). The top five for this list were:\n\n\nIn 2007, the magazine set out to determine \"The Top 100 Records That Changed the World\". The list was compiled and voted on by an eclectic panel of superstars, including Björk, Tori Amos, Tom Waits, Brian Wilson, Pete Wentz and Steve Earle. Little Richard's 1955 hit \"Tutti Frutti\" took the number one spot. Richard's record, dubbed \"a torrent of filth wailed by a bisexual alien\", beat the Beatles' \"I Want to Hold Your Hand\" (2nd) and Elvis Presley's \"Heartbreak Hotel\" (3rd). The magazine's editors claimed that \"the 100 albums, singles and 78s that made up the list make up the most influential and inspirational recordings ever made\". Hailing \"Tutti Frutti\" as the sound of the birth of rock 'n' roll, the editors went on to state that \"one can only imagine how it must have sounded when the song exploded across the airwaves!\"\n\nThe top ten on Mojo's 100 Records That Changed the World list are: \n\nThe magazine also published an issue in 2008 that celebrated the Beatles' \"White Album\", featuring a cover-mounted CD that included cover versions of tracks from the double album, including \"Blackbird\" sung in Scottish Gaelic by Julie Fowlis.\n\nOther lists include a Top 50 of songs by a particular artist from time to time, usually compiled by a panel of music journalists and musicians. Featured artists have included David Bowie, Pink Floyd, The Beach Boys, The Who, Bruce Springsteen, Neil Young, among many.\n\nAfter the success of an all-Beatles issue published to mark the release of \"The Beatles Anthology\" in 1995, many stand-alone, special editions of \"Mojo\" have been produced, devoting an entire magazine to one artist or genre. Three of the most successful were the series (produced by then special editions editor Chris Hunt) telling the story of the Beatles – one thousand days at a time. Featuring contributions from many of the world's leading rock critics and Beatles experts, such as Hunter Davies, Mark Lewisohn, Richard Williams, Ian MacDonald, Peter Doggett and Alan Clayson, the three magazines were published between 2002 and 2003, before being collected together by editor-in-chief Paul Trynka and published as the book \"The Beatles: Ten Years That Shook The World\" (Dorling Kindersley, 2004).\n\nOther special editions have focused on Pink Floyd, Psychedelia, Punk and the Sixties. \"Mojo\" has also published four editions of \"The MOJO Collection: The Greatest Albums Of All Time\" (Canongate Books), originally edited by the magazine's founding features editor, Jim Irvin, and a series of short, definitive biographies under the imprint Mojo Heroes, starting in 2002 with \"Neil Young: Reflections In Broken Glass\", written by Sylvie Simmons, a longtime Mojo contributing editor.\n\nThe company behind the magazine, Bauer, also produced a digital radio station. This station was called Mojo Radio, and was transmitted on the digital television networks in the UK (Freeview channel 721 and Sky Digital channel 0182, though not Virgin Media) and online. The output of the station was based on that of the magazine. It was announced on 5 November 2008 that Mojo Radio would cease broadcasting on 30 November 2008, in order to save Bauer the financial outlay.\n\nThe magazine's current editor-in-chief, Phil Alexander, has a regular show on the UK digital radio station Planet Rock entitled \"Mojo Rocks\", in which he follows a \"Mojo\"-inspired playlist.\n"}
{"id": "2011734", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011734", "title": "Manucher Ghorbanifar", "text": "Manucher Ghorbanifar\n\nManucher Ghorbanifar (; nicknamed Gorba, born May 9, 1945) is an expatriate Iranian arms dealer and former SAVAK agent. \n\nAccording to the \"Washington Report on Middle East Affairs\", Ghorbanifar was a double agent for Iran and Israel.\n\nHe is best known as a middleman in the Iran–Contra Affair during the Ronald Reagan presidency. He re-emerged in American politics during the lead-up to the 2003 invasion of Iraq during the first term of President George W. Bush as a back-channel intelligence \"in order to report on any interaction and attempts at negotiations between Iranian officials and US ambassador to Iraq, Zalmay Khalilzad, current and former intelligence officials say\".\n\nPrior to the 1979 Iranian Revolution Ghorbanifar was an agent of Iran's SAVAK intelligence service, and a partner in an Israeli-Iranian shipping company, Starline Iran, which shipped oil from Iran to Israel. Ghorbanifar knew Israel's military attache in Tehran, Yaakov Nimrodi, who helped build SAVAK.\n\nIn 1980 Ghorbanifar was the liaison between the Shah's last Prime Minister, Shahpour Bakhtiar, in exile in Paris, and conspirators in the Iranian armed forces organising what is sometimes known as the Nojeh Coup. The plot was exposed, and hundreds of officers were arrested at Nojeh Air Base on 9-10 July 1980. Ghorbanifar had owned a shipping company and headed the logistics branch of the Niqab network which organised the civilian part of the plot. He had been recommended for the role by Bakhtiar. Some Iranian sources later accused Ghorbanifar of leaking information to the Iranian government which helped thwart the coup plot. In December 1985 Adnan Khashoggi said in an interview that Ghorbanifar was head of European intelligence under Mir-Hossein Mousavi (Prime Minister from 1981).\n\nIn 1981 Ghorbanifar was a source for the \"Washington Post\"s stories about Libyan hit squads targeting President Reagan and other senior US figures; in 1986 he said he had created the story \"To hurt Libya, an enemy of Israel\". Ghorbanifar's contribution to the Libyan story contributed to the CIA's 1984 decision to issue a \"burn notice\" against Ghorbanifar.\n\nIn the early 1980s Ghorbanifar accompanied Cyrus Hashemi to Israel to arrange a $50m arms shipment, codenamed \"Cosmos\", to Iran. The deal was cancelled at the last minute with much of the equipment already loaded onto a ship in Eilat.\n\nIn the 1980s, Ghorbanifar's principal American contacts were National Security Council agents Oliver North and Michael Ledeen. Ledeen vouched for Ghorbanifar to National Security Adviser Robert McFarlane. Oliver North later claimed that Ghorbanifar had given him the idea for diverting profits from TOW and HAWK missile sales to Iran to the Nicaraguan Contras.\n\nGhorbanifar's suspected duplicity during the Iran–Contra deal led CIA Director William Casey to order three separate lie-detector tests, all of which he failed. Iranian officials also suspected Ghorbanifar of passing them forged American documents. The CIA issued a burn notice (or \"Fabricator Notice\") on Ghorbanifar in 1984, meaning he was regarded as an unreliable source of intelligence, and a 1987 congressional report on Iran–Contra by the Congressional Committees Investigating The Iran-Contra Affair cites the CIA warning that Ghorbanifar \"should be regarded as an intelligence fabricator and a nuisance\".\n\nHis own cohorts in the arms trading affair were also incredulous. \"I knew him to be a liar,\" North eventually acknowledged. Robert McFarlane, the national-security adviser who approved the Iran–Contra arms trades, once described Ghorbanifar as \"one of the most despicable characters I have ever met.\" Former CIA official and Iran-Contra figure George Cave, who was involved in the 1984 decision to issue the burn notice, has described Ghorbanifar as \"the most totally amoral person I have ever met\".\n\nAccording to a report in \"Time\", Ghorbanifar's links with the CIA led to internal disputes, with the counter-terrorism division supporting him and Middle East officers attempting to discredit him. Ghorbanifar's anger at being labelled a liar may have led him to urge Iranian contacts to leak the Iran-Contra story. The affair first became public in a Lebanese newspaper, apparently leaked by Mehdi Hashemi.\n\nGhorbanifar has been suspected of being a former French DGSE informer, and allegedly accompanied Jean-Charles Marchiani, the right-hand man of former French Interior Minister Charles Pasqua, during his meetings with the deputy Iranian foreign minister to negotiate the release of the French hostages in Lebanon in the mid-1980s.\n\nIn December 2001 Michael Ledeen organized a three-day meeting in Rome, Italy between Manucher Ghorbanifar and Defense Intelligence Agency officials Larry Franklin and Harold Rhode. Also present were two officials from Italy's SISMI. In addition to a position at the American Enterprise Institute, Ledeen was working as a consultant to then U.S. Undersecretary of Defense for Policy Douglas Feith, who oversaw the Office of Special Plans. The 2001 meeting took place with the approval of then-Deputy National Security Advisor Stephen Hadley. The meeting concerned a secret offer from reportedly dissident Iranian officials to provide information relevant to the War on Terrorism and Iran's relationship with terrorists in Afghanistan.\n\nSummer 2003 news reports of the meetings prompted an internal review, as well as an investigation by the U.S. Senate Intelligence Committee. Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld characterized the meetings as insignificant, saying, \"There wasn't anything there that was of substance or of value that needed to be pursued further.\" News reports also indicated that Ghorbanifar sought to be paid for the middleman role. Subsequent contacts with Ghorbanifar were abandoned.\n\nManucher Ghorbanifar has emerged as the probable origin of the information cited by Congressman Curt Weldon's book, \"Countdown to Terror: The Top-Secret Information that Could Prevent the Next Terrorist Attack on America... and How the CIA has Ignored it\" (Regnery Publishing, June 2005) . Weldon cites an anonymous source, \"Ali,\" believed to be Fereidoun Mahdavi, a former Iranian minister of commerce before the Iranian Revolution who is a close associate of Ghorbanifar.\n\n"}
{"id": "2011743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011743", "title": "Charge!!", "text": "Charge!!\n\nCharge!! is the fourth studio album by American comedy rock band The Aquabats, released on June 7, 2005 by Nitro Records.\n\nFollowing a nearly six year semi-hiatus which resulted in numerous line-up changes, \"Charge!!\" was The Aquabats' first studio album to showcase the band's radical shift in sound, featuring a reduced five-member line-up and a reinvented musical style of new wave-influenced rock and punk music. Released to largely positive reviews and several successful international tours, \"Charge!!\" effectively revitalized The Aquabats' then-stalling career into the new century.\n\nFollowing their dismissal from Goldenvoice Records in 2000, The Aquabats entered a lengthy period of relative inactivity, bringing much of their touring and recording plans to a standstill and resulting in the eventual departure of several of the band's key members, including the loss of their once prominent horn section. In 2004, The Aquabats independently released the EP \"Yo! Check Out This Ride!\" in an attempt to generate label interest, successfully signing to Nitro Records later in the year and commencing work on a new studio album in the fall. Despite this fortuitous turn of events, the band were still uncertain of their future following their semi-hiatus and radical shift in line-up. Singer Christian Jacobs (The MC Bat Commander) later commented that the band thought \"Charge!\" would possibly be their final album together.\n\nWhile the lyricism of \"Charge!!\" continues in the typical Aquabats tradition of comedic self-referential narratives and pop culture and geek culture-oriented satire, the music introduced a bold new sound for the band, featuring a predominant focus on guitar and keyboard-driven rock, punk and Devo-influenced new wave rather than the ska-driven eclecticism of their earlier albums. Notably, \"Charge!!\" was the first Aquabats studio album not to feature brass instruments, indeed one of the most remarked upon aspects of the album by reviewers; in a 2006 interview, Jacobs stated that the band attempted to write a saxophone solo into one of the album's songs but ultimately felt it sounded too out of place.\n\n\"Charge!\" would be the final Aquabats album to feature longtime guitarist Corey Pollock (Chainsaw) as an official member, as he would eventually leave the band in 2006 as a result of their increased touring activity interfering with his day job. However, until \"The Aquabats! Super Show!\" solidified The Aquabats' image as a five-piece unit in 2012, Pollock continued to perform with the band as a second guitarist at their California shows and contributed guitar tracks to their subsequent studio material.\n\nAfter months of online hype, The Aquabats officially announced \"Charge!!\" on their website on April 1, 2005, unveiling the album's title, artwork, track listing, release date and corresponding tour, all of which had been kept secret until then. The band also released a free digital download of \"Charge!!\"s lead single, \"Fashion Zombies!\", offering a contest that whoever could get their local radio station to play the song would win an all expenses paid dinner with The Aquabats. The prize was claimed after a fan got the song airtime on Los Angeles' KROQ-FM and was taken to a T.G.I. Friday's.\n\nAlthough the album was leaked through peer-to-peer file sharing for nearly a month prior to its official release, \"Charge!!\" charted modestly upon release, reaching #21 on \"Billboard\"s Top Heatseekers. Copies of the album were packaged with Aquabats trading cards featuring pictures of the band and song lyrics. Although the cards were produced in sets of thirteen, each CD came with only two, with an insert humorously instructing fans to buy more CDs in order to collect them all.\n\nIn promotion of the album, a music video for \"Fashion Zombies!\" was shot during the summer of 2005 and released online on July 12, 2005, and on September 23, 2005, The Aquabats made their debut appearance on national television on the G4 program \"Attack of the Show\", performing \"Fashion Zombies!\" and \"Nerd Alert!\".\n\nOn June 11, 2005, mere days after the release of \"Charge!!\", The Aquabats embarked on a well-promoted twelve-week tour of the US entitled the \"Teenage Pajamas From Outer Space Tour\", supported by New Wave band The Epoxies and rockabilly group The Phenomenauts. The tour proved successful, selling out several of its dates and effectively helping revitalize The Aquabats' career, leading to subsequent tours throughout the United States, as well as touring Japan opening for The Offspring and touring the United Kingdom as part of the 2005 Good to Go Tour. In May 2006, following the release of \"Charge!!\"s \"Special One Year Anniversary Edition\", The Aquabats carried out another headlining US tour, the eleven-week \"This Better Work Or We Are Dead Tour\", with Streetlight Manifesto and No Trigger supporting the West Coast engagements and Whole Wheat Bread and The Aggrolites supporting the East Coast. In January 2007, the band announced they were finally wrapping up their touring to start work on a new studio album, performing their \"last\" show at The Glass House club in Pomona on January 27, where they played \"Charge!!\" in its entirety.\n\nCritical reaction to \"Charge!!\" was generally positive, with many reviewers praising The Aquabats' transition in genre. Johnny Loftus of Allmusic gave the album four stars out of five, remarking that the band had \"refocused its musical and ideological attack\" during the six years since their previous studio album: \"Intact are the pop references, zany in-jokes, and Batman villain fetishism...But \"Charge!!\" is much more rewarding musically. It doesn't loiter awkwardly between punk, pop, ska, and broad humor — it keeps the pressure on with a catchy guitar- and keyboard-driven blend of anthemic choruses and appropriately squawky elements.\" A review on IGN also complimented this shift in style, writing \"The neo-new-wave result is superbly effective, especially considering the band's campy, Saturday-morning-cartoon feel.\"\n\nTim O'Neil of PopMatters also commented on the band's change of sound, writing that \"The Aquabats' current strategic manifesto bears a strong resemblance to some of No Doubt's great late-period tactical accomplishments, especially on portions pertaining to the plague of 'Fashion Zombies!' and the propaganda manifesto 'Look at Me, I’m a Winner!'. Ironically, considering their near wholesale abandonment of the [ska] strategy, the greatest victory on \"Charge!!\" comes on the only battle to utilize the almost totally discredited Ska Force to full effect, the ebullient 'Waterslides! Jesse Raub of Punknews.org, though giving the album a four out of a possible five stars, lamented the album's lack of ska music but ultimately praised The Aquabats' humor, noting \" I guess as long as the Aquabats are around, I won't be able to escape their siren song of goofiness. Strictly for the music, this album has the catchiest damn hooks I've heard in a long time. It's poppy as hell, and it definitely shows the progression of the band. You really are going to be missing out on a lot if you let this pass by you\".\n\nIn June 2006, The Aquabats released a tongue-in-cheek \"One-Year Anniversary\" re-issue of \"Charge!!\", featuring three previously unreleased bonus tracks from the original recording sessions, a DVD and brand new album art by artist Brandon Bird. Printed in a limited run, the anniversary re-issue was made available only through The Aquabats' website and live shows.\n\n\nAll songs written by The Aquabats.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2011758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011758", "title": "Sundsøre", "text": "Sundsøre\n\nSundsøre is a village in the former Sundsøre municipality, since 1 January 2007 it is a part of Skive Municipality, Central Denmark Region in Denmark.\n"}
{"id": "2011779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011779", "title": "Deteriorata", "text": "Deteriorata\n\n\"Deteriorata\" is a comedy record released as a single in 1972. It is a parody of Les Crane's 1971 spoken word recording of \"Desiderata\", the early 20th century poem by Max Ehrmann. (\"Desiderata\" is Latin for \"desired things\"; \"deteriorata\" is a portmanteau of the verb \"deteriorate\" and \"desiderata\".)\n\nThe parody was written by Tony Hendra for \"National Lampoon\", and was recorded for the album \"Radio Dinner\". Narrator Norman Rose read the \"poem\" and Melissa Manchester sang the song. Christopher Guest wrote the music.\n\n\"Deteriorata\" appeared on the lower reaches of the \"Billboard\" magazine charts for a few weeks in late 1972. In addition, a printed version of the parody became one of \"National Lampoon\"'s best-selling posters. The parody gained some significance and popularity as a frequent presentation on the Dr. Demento radio show.\n\nLes Crane himself later admitted that he preferred the parody version over his Grammy-winning recording of the original poem.\n\nThe song incorporates several catchphrases of the era:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2011786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011786", "title": "Thisted", "text": "Thisted\n\nThisted is a town in the municipality of Thisted in the North Denmark Region of Denmark. It has a population of 13,423 (1 January 2019) and is located in Thy, in northwestern Jutland.\n\nThe town name derives from the Germanic deity Tyr and could be translated as \"Tyr's Stead\".\n\nMarket town status was given to Thisted in 1500.\n\nDuring the Jutland Peasant rebellion of 1441, Christopher of Bavaria, King of Denmark, approached the rebel camp at Husby Hole near St. Jørgen's Hill in northern Jutland and sent word that anyone who left the camp and went home, would not be punished for rebellion. The men from Thisted, as well as those of Mors, left for which they were afterwards called cowards and traitors.\n\nThisted is also home of the Brewery Thisted Bryghus known for its high quality organic beer.\n\nLangdos, the largest Bronze Age burial mound in Denmark, is located in Thisted. The burial mound is 175 meters long and was built between 1800 and 1000 BC.\n\nThisted features a church Gothic-style church, the exterior of which contains a stone with Runic inscriptions.\n\nThere are several educational institutions in Thisted. There are three schools, Østre skole, Rolighedskolen, and Tingstrup skole. There's also a gymnasium, Higher Preparatory Examination, Higher Commercial Examination Programme and Higher Technical Examination Programme.\n\nThisted is served by Thisted railway station. It is located on the Thy railway line and offers direct InterCity services to Copenhagen and local train services to Struer.\n\nThisted has a football team Thisted FC in the Danish 1st Division (2017–2018 season)\n\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "2011805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011805", "title": "Fin Fin on Teo the Magic Planet", "text": "Fin Fin on Teo the Magic Planet\n\nFin Fin on Teo the Magic Planet is a 1996 computer game for Windows-based computers made by Fujitsu about a creature that is a hybrid of a bird and a dolphin which the user could communicate with via a webcam which came with the game, the SmartSensor. Fin Fin was produced by Makoto Tezuka.\n\nFin Fin responds to the player's tone of voice and volume of the voice - one reviewer describing Fin Fin as a 'virtual mood ring'. 30,000 copies were sold in the first year in Japan.\n\nFin Fin is much like the popular Tamagotchi, but for a PC. If he is not fed or paid enough attention, he would sing a sad whistling song or sometimes fly away.\n\nThere are different versions of Fin Fin and each version has a limited number of worlds available. There was a 3-world version, a 4-world version, a 5-world version, and a 6-world version (which has all the worlds).\n\nThe game's main goal is to win Finfin's friendship. There are many ways to communicate with Finfin. The first way is to press the 1 to 5 keys, which make a sound that attracts Finfin. The second way is to use a special microphone called the Smartsensor and a whistle that come with the game. In the 3, 4 and 5 world versions, the player can record their own voice using the Finfin sound recorder that comes with the game and a microphone. Their voice then plays back when they press the 6 to 0 keys.\n\nThere is also a separate sensor unit that informed Fin Fin whether the player was sitting in front of the screen. The sensor doesn't work in the German versions because of a faulty installation routine.\n\nFinfin - Finfin is the main character of the game. He is half dolphin and half bird. The player can watch him sing, fly, swim, play, 'talk' and interact with him in different ways in different locations.\n\nFinnina - Finfin's wife. She can be seen in the Secret Inlet, Rem River Bank, and the Nest (which is only available in the 6-world version).\n\nFinfin Junior - Finfin's kid. He can only be seen in the 6-world version, at the Nest, when Finnina lays an egg and it hatches. He flies away from the Nest after a month.\n\nVarious flora and fauna - There are various animals and plants in the Planet TEO. Some plants only appear at night, ans some only at day. Some animals are friendly to Finfin, while others want to eat him (but they never can).\n\nThe game includes natural weather, from sunny days to cloudy days, rain or even thunderstorms. However, snowfall does not occur in the game because the areas in the game are close to the equator and so the temperatures are constantly in the warm to mild range. In addition to the weather, there are also annual events such as shooting stars and lunar eclipses, and natural weather phenomena such as rainbows or northern lights. Some could happen on a specific day (for example, on August 30, a double lunar eclipse would occur in the sky at a certain time) or on many days in a year.\n\nThere are six places to visit in the game. The 3-world version was released in Germany, and then the 4-world version was released in Germany. The 5-world version was only released in the US and the 6-world version was exclusive to Japan and China. However, one can download the 6-world version at EMGE's website below.\n\nThis place is available in all versions. This is the most famous and important place of the game. It is quite high and there is a wide view over the surrounding forests to the \"Ermes\" mountain. In the foreground, there is a straightened branch. A \"Yaika\" tree, twisted in itself, with hanging leaves (similar to a willow or a birch), can be seen behind the branch. A little further on the right, there are two palm-like trees.\n\nThe Amile Forest is FinFin's favourite place to be. Here he plays, eats and sleeps, and here one can observe him very well as he flies and practices his flying tricks, or sings. Here, the player can offer a \"Lemo\" berry by pressing the spacebar, which he accepts or rejects depending on whether he's hungry or not.\n\nThis place is available in the 5-world version and above. Here grow the colorful \"Lemo\" berries that FinFin often eats. The valley is surrounded by mountains, on which firs grow. The \"Lemo\" bushes, which always form new flowers and berries, grow in the middle of the valley. In the foreground is a hill with lots of plants, flowers that make music and two deciduous trees.\n\nFinFin visits the valley to satisfy his hunger for berries. Here one can observe the way he circles the bushes several times and looks for ripe berries. If he finds one, he plucks it while hovering around the bush to eat afterwards. The player can also beat the neuro-drum by pressing the spacebar. If FinFin is not present, some plants start to play. After a while, animals appear at the concert. As soon as FinFin appears, the plants stop the music and the animals disappear one by one.\n\nThis place is available in all versions. It is located on a small woodland, surrounded by tall trees. The trees look like coniferous trees, which bear golden-brown nuts, which can be seen sparkling in the wilderness on some nights. The shrubs, bushes and ferns on the clearing resemble jungle plants. On the floor of the clearing lies a hollow tree trunk and a large quantity of nuts or their shells.\n\nFinFin visits the forest to satisfy his hunger for \"Tsubu\" nuts. Here one can observe him shaking the nuts from the trees by flying through the treetops. Then he eats the nuts lying on the ground.\n\nThis place is available in all versions. It is a small side course of the Remse river, which runs in the jungle and ends there. Here you can see two opposite broader banks, surrounded by dense banks. Between the plants are laubless trees, whose branches point in a different direction after each visit. There is a tree at the back with a hole in the trunk, forming a small cave.\n\nFinFin comes to this bay to relax. Therefore, the player is recommended not to disturb him. However, the player can watch FinFin while swimming, playing and catching fish. If the player is lucky, FinFin's wife will also appear at this location for a brief moment.\n\nThis place is available in the 4-world version and above. In the foreground is a cave inside the water. In the background of the upper part of the place, one can see the opposite plant-rich bank.\n\nThis place is the only one that shows the underwater world of TEO, and only here can the player watch FinFin diving and hunting for fish. FinFin's wife rarely comes to this place. If both are present, the player can watch the two doing a short underwater dance.\n\nThis place is only available in the 6-world version. At the left part of the foreground is a bush of many different plants. In the center is the nest of FinFin and Finnina, which can be in one of three stages: construction, final or decayed. In the background is a narrow waterfall that ends in a small river. The place is surrounded by a forest of tall trees.\n\nIn this place, the player can observe the rearing of Finfin Junior by FinFin and his wife Finnina. By pressing the spacebar, a loud FinFin call will sound, which can cause various things. It is supposed to scare away an enemy named Gminfly (flying orca), if the latter has approached the nest too much. When the \"call\" is exercised, a certain plant is always frightened in the foreground, blooming in a jerky manner and changing its color. Over time, it calms down again and takes its old form. If the player presses it while FinFin is in the foreground, he will start to cry.\n\nAnimated Storybook: To Teo and Back with Jack\n\nIt's a short point-and-click game. In it, a man travels with a boy named Jack to the planet TEO to search for Finfin. Jack wants to bring Finfin back with him.\n\nTanTan TEO\n\nThis game was released in Japan and Korea. It's a music game. The player controls FinFin with two keys and has to keep a clock given by the game. In order to pass a level, the player has to reach a certain amount of correct key combinations.\n\nPlot: FinFin would like to participate in a music festival, but he must first improve his rhythm with the help of his friends.\n\nTEO64 (unpublished)\n\nTEO64 is an unpublished version for the Nintendo 64DD.\n\n"}
{"id": "2011808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011808", "title": "Division 2 (Swedish football)", "text": "Division 2 (Swedish football)\n\nDivision 2 is the fourth level in the league system of Swedish football and comprises 84 Swedish football teams. Division 2 had status as the official second level from 1928 to 1986, but was replaced by Division 1 in 1987. It then had status as the official third level until 2005, but was replaced once again by the recreated Division 1 in 2006.\n\nThere are 84 clubs in Division 2, divided in six groups of 14 teams each representing a geographical area. During the course of a season (starting in April and ending in October) each club plays the others twice, once at their home stadium and once at that of their opponents, for a total of 26 games. At the end of each season the two lowest placed teams of each group are relegated to Division 3 and the twelve winning teams from the twelve Division 3 leagues are promoted in their place while the third lowest placed teams in the Division 2 leagues plays promotion/relegation play-offs against the twelve second placed teams in Division 3. The top team in each Division 2 group is promoted to Division 1 and the three lowest placed teams from each Division 1 league are relegated in their place.\n\nThe Swedish Football Association ( SvFF) is responsible for the administration of Division 2.\n\nDivision 2 is the fourth-highest division in Swedish Football. It currently comprises six regional leagues which may show some small changes to their titles year on year reflecting the changing geographical distribution of clubs. The six sections for the 2014 season cover Norrland, Norra Svealand, Södra Svealand, Norra Götaland, Västra Götaland and Östra Götaland.\n\nThe name of Division 2 has been around since 1924/25 season when there were 5 sections titled Uppsvenskan, Mellansvenskan, Östsvenskan, Västsvenskan and Sydsvenskan which were run on an unofficial basis. Division 2 became official in 1928/29 as the second tier of Swedish football with 2 sections being created - Norra and Södra - with a total of 20 teams.\n\nIn 1932/33 Division 2 was expanded into 4 sections covering Norra, Östra, Västra and Södra. This format continued until the end of the 1946/47 season. For the 1947/48 season a 2 section structure was restored comprising the Nordöstra and Sydvästra sections. In 1953/54 a section representing the northern clubs in Sweden was introduced for the first time known as Norrland. The other two sections were titled Svealand and Götaland. In 1955/56 it was decided that Götaland should have 2 sections. This provided Division 2 with 4 sections covering Norrland, Svealand, Östra Götaland and Västra Götaland.\n\nIn 1972 the structure reverted to 3 sections titled Norra, Mellersta and Södra. This was short-lived and in 1974 two sections covering Norra and Södra were consolidated. This system continued until the end of the 1986 season when the competition became Division 1.\n\nFrom 1987 onwards Division 2 became the third highest league in Swedish football and this continued until 2005. The new division initially had 4 sections titled Norra, Mellersta, Östra and Västra. In 1993 it was divided into 6 sections titled Norrland, Östra Svealand, Västra Svealand, Östra Götaland, Västra Götaland and Södra Götaland.\n\nIn 2006 Division 2 became Sweden's fourth highest division with the introduction of Division 1 below the Superettan.\n\n\"2020 season.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nEver since 2003 the online bookmaker Unibet have given out awards at the end of the season to the best players in Division 2. The recipients are decided by a jury of sportsjournalists, coaches and football experts.\n"}
{"id": "2011814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011814", "title": "Shiny Beast (Bat Chain Puller)", "text": "Shiny Beast (Bat Chain Puller)\n\nShiny Beast (Bat Chain Puller) is the tenth studio album by American rock band Captain Beefheart and the Magic Band, released in October 1978 by Warner Bros. Records. The album emerged from production difficulties surrounding \"Bat Chain Puller\", an album Captain Beefheart recorded for DiscReet and Virgin Records in 1976. DiscReet co-founders Herb Cohen and Frank Zappa feuded over the production of the album, because Cohen funded the production with Zappa's royalty checks. Captain Beefheart recorded a new album titled \"Shiny Beast (Bat Chain Puller)\" due to Zappa withholding the master tapes of the original \"Bat Chain Puller\" album.\n\nAfter recording \"Bongo Fury\" with Frank Zappa, Don Van Vliet formed a new Magic Band and began recording an album titled \"Bat Chain Puller\" for DiscReet and Virgin Records. Herb Cohen, DiscReet's co-founder and Zappa's business manager, paid for the album's production costs with Zappa's royalty checks, leading Zappa to end his business partnership with Cohen. Cohen and Zappa each demanded to be paid an advance by Virgin, leading Zappa to withhold the master tapes, for which Cohen sued him.\n\n\"Shiny Beast (Bat Chain Puller)\" was recorded from July 6 to August 27, 1978 at the Automatt in San Francisco. Due to the lawsuit, Van Vliet re-recorded four \"Bat Chain Puller\" tracks for Warner Bros.: \"The Floppy Boot Stomp\", \"Bat Chain Puller\", \"Harry Irene\", and \"Owed T'Alex\". The \"Bat Chain Puller\" outtake \"Candle Mambo\" was also re-recorded for the album, as were older unused songs \"Ice Rose\" (a \"Strictly Personal\" outtake formerly known as \"Big Black Baby Shoes\") and \"Suction Prints\" (a \"Clear Spot\" outtake known as \"Pompadour Swamp\", no relation to the later song of that name). Four new songs completed the album, these being \"You Know You're A Man\", \"When I See Mommy I Feel Like A Mummy\", \"Love Lies\" and \"Tropical Hot Dog Night\", the latter being based on a riff of the \"Bat Chain Puller\" song \"Odd Jobs\", which was otherwise not re-recorded. The album was completed with \"Apes-Ma\", which is the same recording on both versions, due to being sourced from Van Vliet's own home recording. Versions of \"Run Paint Run Run\" and \"The Witch Doctor Life\" were attempted during the sessions but not used (they have been bootlegged). They would be finished for \"Doc at the Radar Station\" and \"Ice Cream for Crow\" respectively.\n\nThe music of \"Shiny Beast\" featured a mix of different music styles, similar to \"Safe as Milk\", incorporating elements of pop, spoken word and experimental music. The song \"Bat Chain Puller\" was based upon the rhythm of Van Vliet's windshield wipers.\n\nThe album received favorable reviews. Robert Christgau declared \"Shiny Beast\" to be better than all Van Vliet's previous albums, writing, \"Without any loss of angularity or thickness, the new compositions achieve a flow worthy of Weill or Monk or Robert Johnson, and his lyrics aren't as willful as they used to be.\" \n\nA contemporary reviewer, AllMusic's Ned Raggett, also praised the album, writing \"\"Shiny Beast\" turned out to be manna from heaven for those feeling Beefheart had lost his way on his two Mercury albums\". \"Trouser Press\" called it \"one of his best\". \n\nIn the \"Spin Alternative Record Guide\" (1995), the album was ranked 73 on the book's list of the \"Top 100 Alternative Albums\".\n\nAll tracks written by Don Van Vliet except \"Owed t' Alex\", written by Don Van Vliet and Herb Bermann.\n\n\nAdditional personnel\n\n"}
{"id": "2011820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011820", "title": "William Finley", "text": "William Finley\n\nWilliam Finley or William Finlay may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2011822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011822", "title": "Summer school", "text": "Summer school\n\nSummer school (or summer university) is a school, or a program generally sponsored by a school or a school district, or provided by a private company, that provides lessons and activities during the summer vacation. Participation in summer schools has been shown to have substantial beneficial effects on educational progress.\n\nIn elementary and middle school, these programs are often used for remedial instruction, though some non-academic day camp programs call themselves Summer school.\n\nIn high school, college or university, students can enroll in classes for credit to be taken into account in their grade point average or their transcript. Generally, this credit is in one of two categories: remediation or advancement. For remediation, the summer school is used to make up credits lost through absence or failure. For advancement, the summer school is used to obtain credit for classes to accelerate progress toward a degree or to lessen the load of courses during the regular school year. Many universities offer short-term summer courses to attract both local and international students, and these programs are often surrounded by social activities.\n\nIn academia, the term can also refer to a type of conference. Typically, established academics will give presentations on advanced topics in a field to postgraduate students. This type of summer school is often organized at a national or international level, and no credits are awarded. Also, a college or university sometimes offers a summer program for teachers or other professional workers wishing to round out their professional or general education.\nSome summer schools are for the general public involving no examinations and are not for degree purposes.\n\nOutside North America, the term has a broader definition and refers to all ages and includes leisure and other non-academic subjects, so, for example, a course on hedge-laying is probably targeting older adults. In these regions, Music Summer Schools, on the other hand, may be designed for school age students, college students, or adult professionals or amateurs at various levels of attainment.\n\nSummer schools can also provide students with educational experiences that would not be available to them within their normal schooling. This may encompass subjects that are not conventionally offered in schools (such as law, which is not usually offered in UK schools but may be taught in summer schools), or the experience of studying in an ancient university. It may also incorporate a wider variety of excursions and fields trips than would be possible in day-to-day education, so that some summer schools straddle the line between education and holiday.\n\nSummer schools are a popular choice for students of English as a Foreign Language, particularly children. EnglishUK, the language teaching organisation for EFL in the UK, has more than 470 members, many of which operate summer schools. Summer schools often offer foreign language immersion, which has known benefits for language learning. Summer schools of this kind also hold appeal for students wishing to pursue higher education in English-speaking countries, which consistently top university league tables and get a high percentage of their students from overseas, as summer schools in these countries provide insight not only into the English language, but also into the cultures that use it. They may even provide guidance for such students in their university applications.\n\nMunich International Summer University (MISU) University of Munich (LMU)\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2011832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011832", "title": "Guess What?", "text": "Guess What?\n\nGuess What? is a picture book for children, written by Mem Fox and illustrated by Vivienne Goodman, about an old woman, with various witchlike qualities. It was published in Australia in 1988 by Omnibus Books, and an American edition was published in 1990 by Harcourt Brace Jovanovich.\n\nThe book has a steady phrasing, along the lines of:\n\nThe book's final twist reveals the old woman as a witch. \"Guess What?\" is on the American Library Association list of the 100 Most Frequently Challenged Books of 1990-2000 at number 66. The challenges to the book are generated because of the supposed occult connection since the book is leading the reader to develop a positive impression of a witch.\n"}
{"id": "2011837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011837", "title": "Pathfinder (website)", "text": "Pathfinder (website)\n\nPathfinder was a landing page with links to various Time Inc. websites. In its initial form, Pathfinder was one of the first Internet portals, created as Time Warner's entry onto the Internet. The objective of Pathfinder was to be an all-encompassing site that brought the best content from all of Time Warner under one banner.\n\nThe site opened on October 24, 1994, with a small content team led by James Kinsella, Bruce Judson, Craig Bromberg, Oliver Knowlton, and Curt Viebranz. The team grew rapidly to service a growing list of internal \"content partners\" - at its highest point, these \"content partners\" numbered 80. Most of these content partners were Time Inc. magazines such as Time, People, Fortune and others, but others came from the widely distributed Time Warner corporate empire.\n\nPathfinder.com was controversial within Time Warner. Many content partners were unhappy with the fact Pathfinder's existence prevented them from using their own URLs. For example, People Magazine was not allowed to use the domain \"people.com,\" but was instead restricted to a directory on Pathfinder (pathfinder.com/people/). Pathfinder's own staff were shocked when Time Inc. senior manager Don Logan publicly derided Pathfinder.com at an external analyst's meeting as a \"black hole\" of unprofitability.\n\nPathfinder went through many managers and editors in its short life, and suffered from high staff turnover rates, especially after it became clear to many that its future was highly uncertain. Many early tech journalists and writers passed through its doors, including Walter Isaacson, James Kinsella (MSNBC), Daniel Okrent, John R. Quain (CBS News Up to the Minute and J-Q on Technology), John Voelcker (GreenCarReports.com), Josh Quittner, Lev Grossman, Maura Johnston and Steven Petrow.\n\nThe site was closed in April 1999, and was widely considered to be an expensive failure. Some claim that Pathfinder cost Time Inc. between $100 and $120 million.\n\nSome analysts believe that Pathfinder's failure led Time Warner's senior managers to conclude that it was impossible to run a successful Internet portal, and this judgement led directly to Time Warner pursuing its eventual merger with AOL, a merger which unsuccessfully sought to generate \"synergy\" between the two corporate giants.\n\nPathfinder.com transitioned to a landing page, with links to Time Inc.'s other sites.\n\n"}
{"id": "2011842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011842", "title": "UR-100N", "text": "UR-100N\n\nThe UR-100N, also known as RS-18A is an intercontinental ballistic missile in service with Soviet and Russian Strategic Missile Troops. The missile was given the NATO reporting name SS-19 Stiletto and carries the industry designation 15A30.\n\nDevelopment of the UR-100N began at OKB-52 in 1970 and flight tests were carried out from 1973 through 1975. In 1976, the improved UR-100NUTTKh (SS-19 Mod 3) version entered development with flight tests in the later half of the decade. The rocket's control system was developed at NPO \"Electropribor\" (Kharkiv, Ukraine).\n\nThe UR-100N is a fourth-generation silo-launched liquid-propellant ICBM similar to the UR-100 but with much increased dimensions, weights, performance, and payload. The missile was not designed to use existing UR-100 silos, and therefore had new silos constructed for it.\n\nThe missile has a preparation time to start of 25 minutes, a storage period of 22 years, and 6 MIRVs.\n\nThe UR-100N reached initial operating capability in 1974, and by 1978 an inventory of 190 launchers were reached. In 1979, the UR-100UTTKh became operational and by 1983 had replaced many older missiles and reached maximum inventory of 360 launchers. This had fallen to 300 by 1991, and with the dissolution of the Soviet Union, many in Ukraine became property of that nation. 170 remained in Russia, although treaty obligations required the rearming of the missiles with single warheads. As of 2018, the Strategic Missile Troops had 20 (or more likely just 10) SS-19s in active service. Recent political developments have led to rearmament of the missiles with the \"Avangard\" hypersonic glide vehicles (HGVs), with the HGV-carrying version of the missile having SS-19 Mod 4 designation. On 27 December 2019, the first missile regiment armed with the \"Avangard\" HGV officially entered combat duty.\n\nThe units previously held by Ukraine have been returned to Russia or decommissioned.\n\nUS Air Force National Air and Space Intelligence Center estimates that as of June 2017 about 50 Mod 3 launchers were operationally deployed.\n\nThe UR-100N forms the basis of the Rokot space launch system, which was used in several successful launches in the 1990s and early 2000s (decade), and one failed launch of the ESA CryoSat satellite in 2005. After the failure, Rockot launches were suspended. Once the cause was unambiguously identified and corrective measures implemented, Rockot returned to active service on 28 July 2006, with the successful launch of an earth observation satellite for South Korea.\n\nThe START I treaty was signed by the Soviet Union in 1991. The treaty required the Soviet Union to begin the process of dismantling nuclear warheads and the launchers used for SS-19 missiles. The Soviet Union had 300 100NUTTH missiles stationed in both Russia and Ukraine: 130 deployed in Ukraine and the rest scattered around Russia. After the fall of the USSR, Ukraine claimed ownership of all the missiles locating in its territory. Ukraine then began dismantling launchers for the SS-19 missiles in compliance with the START 1 treaty. Nuclear warheads that were deployed in Ukraine were also dismantled following terms of the treaty.\n\nThe Strategic Missile Troops are the only operator of the UR-100N. As of March 2020, 2 silo-based SS-19 Mod 4 missiles are deployed with:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2011860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011860", "title": "Viborg Municipality", "text": "Viborg Municipality\n\nViborg municipality is a municipality (Danish, \"kommune\") in Region Midtjylland on the Jutland peninsula in northern Denmark. The municipality covers an area of 1,421.04 km², and has a population of 94,622 (1 April 2014). Søren Pape Poulsen was chosen as mayor again for a second term of office 2014–17, but before the first year of his second term had passed, he accepted an offer to become chairman of his party, and a new mayor had to be chosen among the municipal council members. Its mayor from 3 September 2014 is Torsten Nielsen, also a member of the Conservative People's Party. He is mayor in the rest of the 2014-17 term of office.\n\nThe main city and the site of its municipal council is the city of Viborg.\n\nOn 1 January 2007 Viborg municipality was, as the result of \"Kommunalreformen\" (\"The Municipal Reform\" of 2007), merged with Bjerringbro, Fjends, Karup, Møldrup, and Tjele municipalities to form an enlarged Viborg municipality.\n\nThe municipality is part of Business Region Aarhus and of the East Jutland metropolitan area, which had a total population of 1.378 million in 2016.\n\nViborg has a twin city in each of the Nordic countries, as well as in other world regions.\n\n\n \n"}
