{"id": "1996736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996736", "title": "Jemez Mountains", "text": "Jemez Mountains\n\nThe Jemez Mountains ([ˡhɛmɛz]) are a volcanic group of mountains in Rio Arriba, Sandoval, and Los Alamos counties, New Mexico, United States. \n\nNumerous Puebloan Indian tribes have lived in the Jemez Mountains region since before the Spanish arrived in New Mexico. The Pueblo Indians of this region are the Towa-speaking Jemez people for which this mountain range is named, the Keres-speaking Keresan Indians, and the Tewa-speaking Tewa Indians. Tsąmpiye'ip'įn is the Tewa language name for the Jemez Mountains. \nThe highest point in the range is Chicoma Mountain (also spelled as Tschicoma or Tchicoma) at an elevation of 11,561 feet (3524 meters). The town of Los Alamos and Los Alamos National Laboratory adjoin the eastern side of the range while the town of Jemez Springs is to the west. Pajarito Mountain Ski Area is the only ski area in the Jemez. New Mexico State Highway 4 is the primary road that provides vehicular access to locations in the Jemez Mountains.\n\nThe Jemez Mountains lie to the north of the Albuquerque Basin in the Rio Grande rift.\nThey are a classic example of intracontinental volcanism and consist of a broadly circular ridge surrounding the famous Valles Caldera. The latter is the type location for resurgent caldera eruptions.\n\nThe mountains lie on the intersection of the western margin of the Rio Grande Rift and the Jemez Lineament. Here magma produced from the fertile rock of an ancient subduction zone has repeatedly found its way to the surface along faults produced by rifting. This has produced a long-lived volcanic field, with the earliest eruptions beginning at least 13 million years ago and continuing almost to the present day, the most recent known eruption being the obsidian of the Banco Bonito flow, dated to 68.3 ± 1.5 thousand years before the present.\n\nMost of the volume of the range is composed of pre-caldera basalts, andesites, and dacites of the Keres Group and Polvadera Group, but there are extensive outflow sheets of the Bandelier Tuff and young rhyolites associated with caldera resurgence, all assigned to the Tewa Group. \n\nThe two most recent caldera-forming eruptions, dated to about 1.62 million and 1.256 million years ago, produced massive ignimbrite deposits known as the Otowi and Tshirege members, respectively, of the Bandelier Tuff. Much of the material in these deposits now forms the Pajarito Plateau, a scenic region of canyons and mesas on which Los Alamos is situated. Redondo Peak, the second-highest summit in the range at 11,254 ft (3431 m), is a resurgent dome in the middle of the Valles Caldera, which also contains several smaller volcanos. The caldera is segregated by these structures and its rim into multiple lush grass valleys (\"valles\" in Spanish, hence the name).\n\nMuch of the range is federal land, including Santa Fe National Forest, Bandelier National Monument, and the Valles Caldera National Preserve. State lands include Fenton Lake State Park at in Sandoval County. Hiking trails crisscross the range and lead to many of the summits, although some regions are closed to hikers either because of environmental restrictions or because they are on the territory of Santa Clara Pueblo or private landholders. (Access to pueblo lands is available by permit.) The summits are generally easy to climb (in good weather) and require no technical climbing skills, but rock climbing is popular on some of the basalt cliffs near Los Alamos, Caja del Rio and elsewhere in the range. The mountains also are home to Pajarito Mountain, a small downhill ski area and offer some opportunities for cross country skiing, although not every winter produces enough snow to support this recreational activity. The region is prone to forest fires because of the tendency for spring weather to be dry and windy, creating conditions under which fires caused by human activities or lightning can spread rapidly. The Las Conchas Fire in 2011 was the most recent large wildfire. Parts of Los Alamos National Laboratory were also damaged, although none of the laboratory's special nuclear materials were threatened or released.\n\nCensus-designated places within the Jemez Mountains include Jemez Springs and Jemez Pueblo.\n\nThe Jemez Mountains house the American elk (wapiti), the golden-mantled ground squirrel, the Gunnison's prairie dog, American beavers, black bears, and mountain lions. The Jemez Mountains are also home to a federally endangered species, the Jemez Mountains salamander.\n\n"}
{"id": "1996738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996738", "title": "Wahalak, Mississippi", "text": "Wahalak, Mississippi\n\nWahalak is a small unincorporated community in central Kemper County, Mississippi. It is best known as the temporary hideout of fugitive Kenny Wagner, who was on the FBI Ten Most Wanted Fugitives list in the 1950s.\n\nIn late December 1906, Wahalak and Scooba, Mississippi, were the sites of white rioting against blacks. In the various conflicts, a total of 12 blacks and two whites were killed by December 26. The county sheriff called in the state militia for assistance.\n\nThe name reputedly comes from a Choctaw language word meaning \"running water\". The settlement developed along what was known as Wahalak Creek. After the Mobile and Ohio Railroad was constructed through Kemper County later in the 19th century, this small settlement relocated several miles west in order to have access to it. The railroad built a train depot and a US post office was established for Wahalak.\n\nPassenger trains serving the town included those known as the \"Doodlebug\" and the \"Rebel\". In the early 20th century, residents could travel directly from Wahalak to such places as Memphis, Tennessee, on the Mississippi River to the north and Mobile, Alabama, on the Gulf Coast to the south.\n\nAfter the discontinuation of passenger train service in the 1950s, due to a decline in demand as people bought cars and used federally subsidized highways, the village declined in population. The last Postmistress was Allene Bruton, who also ran a small general store. In the early 21st century, Wahalak has two churches and one restaurant.\n\nWahalak is remote even by Kemper County standards. It is in the near-geographic center between Meridian and Columbus, Mississippi. The nearest movie theaters or shopping malls are more than 45 miles away. The nearest soda vending machine is located in Scooba, 7 miles away.\n\n"}
{"id": "1996740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996740", "title": "Rio Grande Bible College", "text": "Rio Grande Bible College\n\nThe Rio Grande Bible College (RGBI) is a Christian bible college in Edinburg, Texas. It is associated with the Rio Grande Bible Ministries. The college serves as a bible college for students from Mexico, Central America, and South America and it also provides Spanish language training for non-Spanish-speaking North Americans who will serve as missionaries in Spanish-speaking areas of the world.\n\nThe Rio Grande Bible Institute was founded in 1946 by M.C. Ehlert, a Danish evangelist who pastored churches in Minnesota and Iowa before moving to the Rio Grande Valley in 1937, to minister to the Hispanic population there. \n\nIn January 1947, Mr. Ehlert, with the help of many like-minded friends and his wife, Elizabeth, began the first classes at night so that local Hispanics could attend while working during the day. Classes were taught in both English and Spanish for the first few years, but in 1955 the English school was terminated in favor of a Spanish language school for missionaries heading to Latin America. \n"}
{"id": "1996743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996743", "title": "Battle of Valverde", "text": "Battle of Valverde\n\nThe Battle of Valverde, or the Battle of Valverde Ford, was fought from February 20 to 21, 1862, near the town of Val Verde at a ford of the Rio Grande in Union held New Mexico Territory, in what is today the state of New Mexico. It was a major Confederate success in the New Mexico Campaign of the American Civil War. The belligerents were Confederate cavalry from Texas and several companies of Arizona militia versus U.S. Army regulars and Union volunteers from northern New Mexico Territory and the Colorado Territory.\n\nThe Confederate brigadier general, Henry Hopkins Sibley, envisioned that he would invade New Mexico with his army, defeat Union forces, capture the capital city of Santa Fe and then march westward to conquer California and add it to the territory of the Confederacy. Sibley's first step was to gather an army in El Paso, Texas, and lead it north through Confederate Arizona to Fort Thorn. From there he would advance along the Rio Grande, avoiding the desert of the Jornada del Muerto, with the objective of capturing Fort Craig and the supplies in the fort and defeating the Federal army under Colonel Edward Canby. On January 3, 1862, Sibley left El Paso with three regiments and one partial regiment of mounted Texans comprising 2,510 officers and men. Fort Craig, 140 miles (225 km) north of El Paso, was the major obstacle in his path. Canby awaited him there with 3,800 men of whom most were infantry. Only 1,200 of Canby's men were seasoned soldiers. The remainder consisted of 2,000 New Mexican volunteers, 100 Colorado volunteers, and 500 militia. Kit Carson commanded the First Regiment of New Mexican volunteers.\n\nDepartment of New Mexico – Col. Edward Canby\n\nArmy of New Mexico – BG. Henry Hopkins Sibley\n\nSibley led his brigade to within fifteen miles south of Fort Craig during the evening of February 13. Judging the fort to be too strong to be taken by assault, Sibley deployed his brigade in a line for the next three days, hoping to lure the Federals into the open, but Canby, not trusting his volunteer troops, refused to attack.\nAs they were down to a few days' rations, the Confederates could not wait indefinitely, so at a council of war on the 18th, Sibley ordered the army to cross the Rio Grande and move up the eastern side of the river to the ford near Valverde, six miles north of Fort Craig, hoping to cut Union communications between the fort and their headquarters in Santa Fe.\nBy the 20th the Confederate army, under cover of the hills between it and the river, was opposite Fort Craig. [Confederate Col. Thomas] Green attempted to place artillery on the heights overlooking the river and fort, but Canby had anticipated the move forcing the Texans to make a 'dry camp' on the night of the 20th. About midnight, Union Captain James Craydon tried to blow up a few rebel picket posts by sending mules loaded with barrels of fused gunpowder into the Confederate lines, but the faithful old army mules insisted on wandering back toward the Union camp before blowing to bits. Although the only casualties were two mules, the explosions stampeded a herd of Confederate beef cattle and horses into the Union's lines, so depriving Green's troops of some much-needed provisions and horses.\n\nNext morning, February 21, Sibley sent an advance party consisting of four companies of the 2nd Texas Mounted Rifles under the command of Major Charles Pyron to scout ahead to the Valverde ford, with the 4th Texas Mounted Rifles under Lieutenant Colonel William Read Scurry following close behind. The rest of the brigade remained in camp, intending to follow later.\n\nUnion scouts informed Canby of the Confederate movements towards the north. Canby then sent a mixed force of infantry, cavalry, and artillery to the ford under the command of Colonel Benjamin S. Roberts of the 5th New Mexico Infantry. The infantry and artillery slowed the column down, so Roberts sent Major Thomas Duncan ahead with the cavalry to secure the ford. Following Roberts' departure, Canby sent additional reinforcements from the fort's garrison, and assigned several companies of New Mexico volunteers to \"watch the movements of the enemy, threaten his flanks and rear, and impede his movements as much as possible.\"\n\nWhen the Confederates under Pyron arrived at the eastern side of Valverde ford they found that Union forces were already there blocking their passage. Pyron sent for reinforcements from the 4th Texas while his men took cover in an old river bed, which served as an excellent defensive position. At first, despite having a numerical advantage, the Union cavalry deployed in a skirmish line instead of trying to drive the Confederates out of their position. This forced the Union artillery to remain on the western bank of the Rio Grande.\n\nWhen Scurry arrived, he deployed his regiment to Pyron's right, with the regimental artillery on the Confederate left. Although they had gained a numerical superiority, the Confederates were mostly armed with short range shotguns and pistols, which could not reach the Union positions three hundred yards away; the Confederate howitzers also could not reach the Union artillery on the far bank of the river. Meanwhile, Canby ordered most of the remaining garrison at Fort Craig to march to Valverde, leaving behind some militia to guard the fort. When he arrived, Canby moved most of his command, including the artillery, to the eastern bank, leaving the First New Mexico Volunteers under Carson and the Second New Mexico Volunteers under Colonel Miguel Piño on the western bank as a reserve.\n\nBy early afternoon, the remainder of the Confederate force, the 5th Texas Mounted Rifles under Colonel Thomas Green and a battalion of the 7th Texas Mounted Rifles under Lieutenant Colonel John Sutton, arrived at the battlefield, much in need of water and denied access to the river by the defending Union forces. Sibley, who during the morning had remained with the wagons, relinquished command of the brigade and Green took over, who then handed command of the 5th Texas over to Major Samuel Lockridge. Around 2:00 pm, Green authorized a lancer company to attempt a charge on what they thought was an inexperienced New Mexico company on the Union extreme right; however, the Union soldiers turned out to be a Colorado company which was able to defeat the charge without breaking. Twenty of the lancers were killed or wounded during the charge, with almost all of the horses disabled or killed as well. When it returned to the Confederate line, the lancer company rearmed itself with pistols and shotguns and continued fighting in the battle. This was the first and last lancer charge of the American Civil War.\n\nBy 4:00 p.m., the Union appeared to have the advantage in the battle. Canby decided that a massive frontal assault would fail and instead decided to attack the Confederate left; to do so, he ordered one of his batteries on his right to redeploy closer to the Confederate line and moved several companies to his right, including Carson's First New Mexico Regiment which crossed the river and took its place in line. However, this repositioning of the troops weakened the center of the Union line and the battery on Canby's left. Hoping to stall the Union attack, Green ordered Major Henry Raguet to attack the Union right with his battalion; this attack was repulsed by frontal fire and a flank attack from the 1st New Mexico, and the Union right advanced after the retreating Confederates.\n\nAt this time, Green ordered the Confederate right wing under the command of Scurry to charge the Union center and the battery on its left; the attack force of 750 men was arranged into three successive waves. The Confederates were motivated, in large part, by their desperate need for water which could only be reached by dislodging the Union troops blocking their access to the Rio Grande. The shock of the Confederate charge caused over half of the battery's supporting force to rout; Lockridge was mortally wounded during the attack. The Federals countered with a cavalry charge, but the main Confederate force continued to press their assault on Canby's left flank, capturing six artillery pieces and breaking the Union battle line, which soon turned into a panic-stricken retreat of both regular troops and New Mexico volunteers. Sibley was about to order another attack, when Canby sent a white flag asking for a truce to remove the bodies of the dead and wounded, to which Sibley gentlemanly agreed. Canby managed to reorganize his men, minus about 200 deserters from among the New Mexico volunteers, and ordered a retreat back to Fort Craig leaving the road northward toward Santa Fe open to the Confederates.\n\nLeft in possession of the battlefield, the Confederates gained the victory but had suffered substantial casualties, reporting 36 killed, 150 wounded, and one missing out of 2,590 men. Due to the strength of the fort's walls, Sibley decided to abandon his attempt to capture the fort and instead continued northwards towards Albuquerque and Santa Fe, where he hoped to capture much needed supplies. However, he was severely hampered by the losses in horses and mules from the battle, which forced him to dismount the 4th Texas as infantry and to destroy some supplies and wagons.\n\nCanby reported that his forces had 3 officers and 65 men killed/3 officers and 157 men wounded/1 officer and 35 men missing for a total of 264. He also had additional missing and deserters, mostly deserters, thus suffering a 16 percent casualty rate, including deserters, of about 432 men out of 2,800 men engaged. Considering himself to be outnumbered, he chose not to pursue Sibley, instead sending mounted detachments of New Mexico volunteers against the Confederates' rear for harassment. He would remain with the main body at Fort Craig to cut off the Confederates' supply line and to intercept reinforcements for Sibley, eventually hoping to pin the main Confederate body between himself and Union reinforcements from Fort Union.\n\nNeither Sibley nor Canby received high marks for their generalship during the battle. Sibley was indisposed by alcohol and illness and spent most of the day riding in an ambulance. Col. Green was the de facto commander and it was his aggressive attack on Canby's center and left that won the battle. Canby blamed the New Mexican volunteers, mostly Hispanics, for his loss—but his decision to reinforce his right while weakening his center and left was the real cause of the Union defeat. On Canby's right wing, Kit Carson's regiment of New Mexican volunteers saw only limited action but comported itself well. The volunteers were advancing and thought they were winning the battle. They were incredulous when Canby gave the order to retreat.\n\nThe battle represented Canby's low point in his military career and Sibley's high point. Both men would go opposite directions to the terms of reputation after the battle. It was rumored following the battle that the two commanders of these battles, Canby and Sibley, who had been allies and trained together earlier, might have actually been brothers-in-law. However, research showed that there is little if any evidence that they were related by marriage.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1996745", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996745", "title": "Millersylvania State Park", "text": "Millersylvania State Park\n\nMillersylvania State Park is a public recreation area located on Deep Lake south of Olympia, Washington. The state park's include old-growth cedar and fir trees as well as of freshwater shoreline. In 2009, the park was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in recognition of its well-preserved Civilian Conservation Corps landscape. It is managed by the Washington State Parks and Recreation Commission.\n\nThe area was homesteaded by Squire Lathum in 1855 and then was sold to John Miller. The Miller family called the area \"Miller's Glade\", before changing it \"Millersylvania\" and giving the property to the state in 1921 for perpetual use as a park. Remnants of a narrow-gauge railway, 19th-century skid roads, and other reminders of the logging industry can be found on park grounds, including tree stumps bearing the scars of springboards used by loggers. In 1935, the Civilian Conservation Corps became active in the park constructing buildings, trails, roads, picnic shelters, bathhouses and a caretaker's home, most of which remain intact and in use.\n\nThe park offers camping, of hiking and biking trails, boating, fishing and swimming. Millersylvania was once reportedly home to a rare species of freshwater crab, as reported in the Miller family diaries, which became extinct due to overfishing by new settlers coming from the east.\n\n"}
{"id": "1996753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996753", "title": "Miseryfjellet", "text": "Miseryfjellet\n\nMiseryfjellet (Misery Mountain), at , is the tallest peak on Bear Island (Bjørnøya), a Norwegian island in the Barents Sea. Miseryfjellet is on the eastern side of Bear Island and contains three distinct component peaks, Urd, Verdande and Skuld. These peaks are named after the three Norns in Norse Mythology. The name \"Bear Island\" is derived from the seasonal presence of polar bears, \"Ursus maritimus\", whose population in the Barents Sea region is a genetically distinct sub-population of this species.\n\n"}
{"id": "1996766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996766", "title": "Eileen Essell", "text": "Eileen Essell\n\nEileen Essell (8 October 1922 – 15 February 2015) was an English actress, noted in part for not beginning her screen acting career until the age of 79.\n\nShe retired from stage acting in 1958 following her marriage to playwright and actor Gerard McLarnon. She later earned a living as a teacher at the Central School of Music and Drama and the City University. After the death of her husband in 1997, a family friend lured her back on stage for a play he was producing. Although she had acted onstage in the 1940s/1950s, her first screen performance was in an episode of \"Doctors\". She later appeared in \"The Bill\", \"Doc Martin\", \"Holby City\", \"Hustle\", \"Casualty\", \"Ideal\" and \"Sensitive Skin\", among other episodes. She guest starred as Christine in the episode \"From Out of the Rain\" in season 2 of the BBC spin-off show \"Torchwood\". On film, she is best remembered for the role of Mrs. Connelly in \"Duplex\".\n\nA widow, Essell died on 15 February 2015, aged 92. She is survived by her son, Fergus McLarnon.\n\n"}
{"id": "1996769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996769", "title": "Remixed (Shpongle album)", "text": "Remixed (Shpongle album)\n\nRemixed is a compilation of songs from Shpongle's two albums: Are You Shpongled? and Tales of the Inexpressible, remixed by known artists within psychedelic trance, such as Prometheus, Ott and Total Eclipse. The album was released in 2003.\n\nAs far as style is concerned the album is very diverse, containing genres ranging from drum 'n' bass through dub to electro.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1996773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996773", "title": "Kamboj", "text": "Kamboj\n\nThe Kamboj ( , \"Kamboj\"), also Kamboh, is a community mainly in the Northern India and eastern Pakistan.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1996775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996775", "title": "Dorota Siudek", "text": "Dorota Siudek\n\nDorota Siudek (\"née:\" Zagórska) ( ; born 9 September 1975 in Kraków) is a Polish retired pair skater who is now a coach. Her partner and husband is Mariusz Siudek. They are the 1999 World bronze medalists, two-time (1999, 2000) European silver medalists and two-time (2004, 2007) European bronze medalists. They were the first Polish pair to medal at the World Championships.\n\nZagórska was introduced to figure skating by a cousin. After spending her early years as a single skater, she partnered with Janusz Komendera to compete in pairs. They won silver nationally and finished 18th at the 1994 European Championships.\n\nZagórska teamed up with Mariusz Siudek in 1994. In their first season together, the pair won their national title and were sent to the 1995 European and World Championships, finishing 9th and 16th in their debuts. The following season, they placed 8th in their Champions Series (later renamed Grand Prix) debut at the 1995 Trophée de France.\n\nIn the 1997–1998 season, Zagórska / Siudek were 4th at the 1998 European Championships. They finished 10th at their first Olympics, in Nagano, Japan, and ended the season at the 1998 World Championships where they placed 5th.\n\nIn 1998–1999, Zagórska / Siudek won their first European medal, silver, at the 1999 European Championships. They went on take bronze at the 1999 World Championships, becoming the first Polish pair to win a World medal.\n\nIn the 1999–2000 season, Zagórska / Siudek won their first Grand Prix medals, both bronze, at the 1999 Trophée Lalique and 1999 NHK Trophy and then won another silver medal at the European Championships. The next season, the pair won their third GP medal, also bronze, at the 2000 Cup of Russia but Zagórska's ankle injury led the pair to withdraw from the 2001 Europeans after the short program.\n\nIn the 2001–2002 season, Zagórska / Siudek picked up their fourth GP medal, another bronze, at the 2001 NHK Trophy. They withdrew from the 2001 Trophée Lalique after Siudek twisted his knee in the warm-up before the free skate. They competed at their second Olympics, finishing 7th. During the next Grand Prix season, they obtained bronze at the 2002 Bofrost Cup on Ice and silver at the 2002 NHK Trophy.\n\nIn spring 2003, Zagórska / Siudek moved to Montreal, Quebec, Canada to work with Richard Gauthier. The pair won bronze medals at the 2003 Skate Canada International and 2003 NHK Trophy and then their third European medal, bronze, at the 2004 European Championships.\n\nIn the 2004–2005 season, Zagórska / Siudek added two more bronze medals to their Grand Prix collection at the 2004 Skate Canada International and 2004 NHK Trophy. They had to withdraw from their third GP event, the 2004 Cup of Russia, after Zagórska injured her shoulder in a fall during the short program. The injury also caused them to miss the 2005 Europeans.\n\nIn 2005–2006, Zagórska / Siudek took bronze at their two Grand Prix events, the 2005 Cup of Russia and 2005 Cup of China. They finished 9th at their third Olympics.\n\nAlthough the pair had originally planned to retire after that season, they decided to compete one more season because the 2007 European Championships were assigned to Warsaw, Poland. Zagórska began using her married surname, Siudek, during their final competitive season. The Siudeks won silver at the 2006 Skate America, bringing their GP medal total to 13. In Warsaw, they obtained the bronze medal, marking their fourth podium finish at the European Championships.\n\nThe Siudeks withdrew from the 2007 World Championships due to an injury sustained by Mariusz during the long program. The pair announced their competitive retirement following the event. They returned to Poland and began coaching in Toruń. Their former students include Stacey Kemp / David King.\n\nDorota Siudek is an International Technical Specialist for Poland.\n\nSiudek proposed to Zagórska during the 2000 World Championships, and they were married on 13 May 2000. Their son, Richard, was born on 7 July 2009.\n\n"}
{"id": "1996776", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996776", "title": "Red Lion Square disorders", "text": "Red Lion Square disorders\n\nThe Red Lion Square disorders were a series of events in 1974.\n\nOn 15 June that year, the National Front marched through London's West End; their march was to finish with a meeting in Conway Hall, Red Lion Square. The London Area Council for Liberation conducted a counter demonstration which consisted of a march through London ending with a public meeting in Red Lion Square. Warwick student Kevin Gately was killed during the demonstrations and a public enquiry was conducted by Lord Scarman into the disorders at Red Lion Square.\n\nThe British far-right organisation, the National Front booked Conway Hall in Red Lion Square for a meeting to take place on 15 June 1974. A counter-demonstration was called by the London Area Council of Liberation (formerly the Movement for Colonial Freedom). This counter-demonstration attracted support from groups not directly under the control of Liberation, including the International Marxist Group (IMG), the Communist Party of England (Marxist-Leninist) and the International Socialists (later the Socialist Workers Party). The counter-demonstration assembled on the Embankment and marched to Red Lion Square without incident. They planned to hold an open-air meeting on the north side of the Square, away from Conway Hall.\n\nThe front of the Liberation march came westwards along Theobald's Road and entered Red Lion Square by Old North Street before turning right where a platform was set up for the meeting. A police cordon blocked the square to the left of Old North Street.\n\nA substantial number of marchers passed this cordon peacefully and assembled in front of the platform where the Labour MP for Southall Syd Bidwell was to address them.\n\nThe cordon was then charged by the larger contingent from the IMG who were closely followed by the smaller CPE(M-L) contingent. Several minutes of pushing and scuffling followed. There were several charges and counter-charges. The police cordon was reinforced by members of the Special Patrol Group and by mounted police who eventually succeeded in forcing the demonstrators back. Photos show the use of truncheons by some police officers. At least one demonstrator reported being knocked to the ground and trampled by a police horse. Many demonstrators were forced back up Old North Street but a few retreated into the square.\n\nThe police then forcibly cleared all remaining demonstrators from the square whether they had taken part in the original confrontation or not. Many demonstrators had passed the police cordon peacefully before the charge. Demonstrators from the International Socialists were specifically instructed by their stewards to withdraw from the area of fighting. Nonetheless, the police aggressively forced all the Liberation marchers from the square, in spite of the remonstrations of Syd Bidwell MP.\n\nSoon after this, word spread among the Liberation demonstrators that the National Front were approaching. Many demonstrators regrouped at the junction of Vernon Place and Southampton Row where they were held back by a police cordon on the east side.\n\nThe National Front, accompanied by an Orange fife and drum band, marched down Bloomsbury Way to the west side of Southampton Row where another police cordon stopped them. Neither side attempted to breach the cordons that separated them. After a few minutes mounted police came up Southampton Row from Red Lion Square and moved straight into the Liberation crowd without warning. Supported by foot police, they used truncheons on demonstrators in an apparently indiscriminate manner. Another police cordon behind the crowd effectively prevented their escape and many arrests were made.\n\nMany demonstrators were arrested. Photos show that many who were arrested had their hair pulled or were otherwise treated with what appeared to be excessive force by police.\n\nWhile this was happening the National Front were allowed to turn right into Southampton Row and escorted round the south side of Red Lion Square into Conway Hall.\n\nA small remnant of the IMG contingent went up Boswell Street in an attempt to disperse. They were followed and trapped by police who detained the group while they were attempting to arrest Brian Heron, one of the IMG leaders. They eventually succeeded but he escaped from them a few minutes later.\n\nThis incident was overlooked in most of the media coverage but was reported in the following week's edition of Time Out.\n\nKevin Gately was a student at Warwick University who accompanied fellow students to the counter-demonstration. Gately was not a member of a political group and had never been on a demonstration before. As some of the Warwick students were supporters of the IMG, all of them marched with the IMG contingent and were caught up in the initial clash in Red Lion Square. Photos show Gately moving through the crowd, possibly trying to escape from the tight press of bodies during the pushing at the police cordon. His unconscious body was found by police after the crowd was driven back and taken in an ambulance to University College Hospital.\n\nGately's fellow students only realised that he was missing when they met after the demonstration ended. A student who enquired at University College Hospital was shown Gately's body and asked to identify him.\n\nA coroner's inquest at St Pancras Coroner's Court concluded that Gately's death was the result of a blow to the head from a blunt instrument. Left wing newspapers at the time blamed his death on the mounted police though this was based on supposition and conclusive evidence has not been forthcoming.\n\nKevin Gately was the first demonstrator to be killed in Britain in 55 years.\n\nThere was widespread press and media coverage of the disorders in Red Lion Square\n\nWarwick University students held a march and vigil in Coventry during the following week.\n\nThe next Saturday, 22 June 1974, a silent march retraced the route of the Liberation counter-demonstration from the embankment to Red Lion Square. The march was led by personal friends of Kevin Gately, followed by University of Warwick students and then by students from many other universities and colleges as well as contingents from many of the left wing groups that had taken part in the original march. This march also received widespread media coverage.\n\nThe Inquest into Kevin Gately's death was followed by a public enquiry headed by Lord Scarman which considered a wide range of evidence from police and marchers. The International Marxist Group leaders on 15 June – Brian Heron and David Bailey – initially denied charging the first police cordon but later admitted doing so to the Scarman tribunal.\n\nThe sabbatical officers of University of Warwick Students' Union commissioned a Kevin Gately memorial painting which still hangs in the student union building. It was restored in 2004.\n\n"}
{"id": "1996778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996778", "title": "List of rulers of Malwa", "text": "List of rulers of Malwa\n\nFollowing is a list of rulers of Malwa since the Kshatrapas:\n\n\n\nThe Paramara rulers mentioned in the various inscriptions and literary sources include:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1996781", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996781", "title": "Rowland Frazee", "text": "Rowland Frazee\n\nRowland Cardwell Frazee, (12 May 1921 – July 29, 2007) was a Canadian banker and former chairman and chief executive officer of the Royal Bank of Canada from 1979 to 1986.\n\nBorn in Halifax, Nova Scotia, at age five, the family moved to St. Stephen, New Brunswick where his father had been appointed bank manager. At age eighteen, Rowland Frazee went to work as a clerk at his father's branch but following the outbreak of World War II he enlisted in the Canadian Army in 1941 serving overseas with the Carleton and York Regiment, First Canadian Infantry Division, with whom he participated in the July, 1943 allied landings in Sicily. Wounded on three separate occasions, Frazee distinguished himself in the Italian campaign and in northwest Europe. At the time of his decommissioning in 1945 he held the rank of Major.\n\nAfter the war Frazee studied at Dalhousie University in Halifax, where he graduated with a Bachelor of Commerce degree in 1948. Resuming his banking career, he rose to become the Royal Bank's president in 1977 and assumed the role of chairman and chief executive officer in 1980. He retired from the bank on May 31, 1986, but remained a member of the board of directors until 1992.\n\nIn 1985, he was made an Officer of the Order of Canada and was promoted to Companion in 1991. In 2001, he was inducted into the New Brunswick Business Hall of Fame.\n\nHis son, Stephen Frazee, is a successful Toronto real estate broker and his daughter, Catherine Frazee, a former chair of the Ontario Human Rights Commission, is a retired Professor of Distinction at the Ryerson University School of Disability Studies.\n\n"}
{"id": "1996790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996790", "title": "Profintern", "text": "Profintern\n\nThe Red International of Labor Unions (RILU) ( Красный интернационал профсоюзов—Krasnyi internatsional profsoyuzov), commonly known as the Profintern, was an international body established by the Communist International with the aim of coordinating Communist activities within trade unions. Formally established in 1921, the Profintern was intended to act as a counterweight to the influence of the so-called \"Amsterdam International\", the Social Democratic International Federation of Trade Unions, an organization branded as class collaborationist and an impediment to revolution by the Comintern. After entering a period of decline in the middle 1930s, the organization was finally terminated in 1937 with the advent of the Popular Front.\n\nIn July 1920, at the behest of Comintern head Grigory Zinoviev, the 2nd World Congress of the Communist International established a temporary International Trade Union Council, commonly known by its Russian acronym, Mezhsovprof. This organizing committee — including members of the Russian, Italian, British, Bulgarian, and French delegations to the Comintern Congress — was presented with the task of organizing \"an international congress of Red trade unions.\n\nSoviet trade union leader Solomon Lozovsky was named president of this new council, assisted by British unionist Tom Mann and Alfred Rosmer of France. The Executive Committee of the Communist International (ECCI) directed the new council to issue a manifesto to \"all trade unions of the world\", condemning the social democratic International Federation of Trade Unions based in Amsterdam as a \"yellow\" organization and inviting them to join a new revolutionary international union association.\n\nThis decision was to mark a split of the international trade union movement that followed the recently achieved split of the international socialist political movement into revolutionary Communist and electorally-oriented Socialist camps. This desire for a new exclusive international of explicitly \"Red\" union represented a fundamental contradiction with the Comintern's firm insistence that Communists should work within the structure of existing trade unions — an important detail noted at the time by delegate Jack Tanner of the British Shop Stewards Movement. Tanner's objection was brushed aside as Grigory Zinoviev denied him the floor, referring his complaints to committee.\n\nHistorian E.H. Carr argues that the decision to launch a Red International of Labor Unions at all was a byproduct of the era of heady revolutionary fervor that world revolution was around the corner, declaring:\n\"It was a step taken in a moment of hot-headed enthusiasm and the firm conviction of the imminence of the European revolution; and a device designed to bridge a short transition and prepare the way for the great consummation had unexpected and fatal consequences when the interim period dragged on into months and years.\"\n\nAs the plan for a new labor international moved forward, Mezhsovprof established propaganda bureaus in different countries in an attempt to win the existing unions affiliated to the rival \"Amsterdam International,\" as the International Federation of Trade Unions was commonly known, over to the forthcoming \"Red International.\" These bureaus attracted the most rebellious and dissident trade unionists to their banner while at the same time alienating sometimes conservative union leaderships, already raising charges that what was actually being proffered was dual unionism and a destructive split of the existing unions.\n\nOn January 9, 1921, ECCI decided that the launch of a new Red International of Trade Unions would take place at a conference to be convened on May Day of that year. An appeal was issued to the trade unions of the world who were \"opposed to the Amsterdam International\" and called for their affiliation to the new organization. This conclave was ultimately postponed until July, however, so that it could be synchronized with the scheduled 3rd World Congress of the Comintern — travel to and from Soviet Russia being a difficult and dangerous process in these years.\n\nGrandiose claims were made about the new organization, with Lozovsky declaring in a speech in May 1921 that already unions representing 14 million workers had proclaimed their allegiance to the forthcoming Red International. Zinoviev ferociously declared the Amsterdam International to be \"the last barricade of the international bourgeoisie\" — fighting words to social democratic trade unionists.\n\nFor their own part, the Social Democratic trade union movement emerged from World War I relatively united, on the offensive, and unbowed. Even before the Profintern was launched, the line in the sand was clearly drawn, with the Amsterdam International declaring at a May 1921 executive session that it was \"not permissible for trade union organizations to be affiliated to two trade union International at the same time\" and adding that \"every organization which affiliates to the political trade union International of Moscow places itself outside the International Federation of Trade Unions.\" The great civil war within the world trade union movement had begun.\n\nThe Founding Congress of the Red International of Trade Unions was convened in Moscow on July 3, 1921. The gathering was attended by 380 delegates from around the world, including 336 with voting rights, claiming to represent 17 million of the 40 million trade union members worldwide. The gathering was neither homogeneous nor harmonious, as it quickly became clear that a number of delegates held a syndicalist perspective that sought to avoid politics and participation in the existing trade unions altogether, in favor of direct action leading to workers' control of industry. These delegates sought the new Red International of Labor Unions to be fully independent of the Communist International, seen as a political organization.\n\nAmong those expressing such a desire for the organizational independence of RILU from the Comintern was \"Big Bill\" Haywood of the Industrial Workers of the World (IWW) — an individual already living in Moscow after skipping bail to avoid a lengthy prison sentence under the Espionage Act. The IWW's perspective was joined by syndicalist trade unionists that were part of the French and Spanish delegations. Ultimately, however, the syndicalist elements proved a small minority and the Congress approved a resolution sponsored by Mann and Rosmer which called for \"the closest possible link\" between the Profintern and Comintern, including joint sessions of the organizations, as well as \"real and intimate revolutionary unity\" between the Red unions and the Communist parties at the national level.\n\nDespite the initiative of starting a new trade union international in direct competition with the previously existing Amsterdam international, the Profintern in its initial phase continued to insist that its strategy was not to \"snatch out of the unions the best and most conscious workers,\" but rather to remain in the existing unions in order to \"revolutionize\" them. The founding Congress's official resolution on organization declared that the withdrawal from the existing mass unions and abandonment of their memberships to their often conservative leaderships \"plays into the hands of the counter-revolutionary trade union bureaucracy and therefore should be sharply and categorically rejected.\"\n\nStill, the Profintern insisted upon a real split of the labor movement, establishing conditions for admission which included \"a break with the yellow Amsterdam International.\" The organization effectively advocated that radicalized workers engage in \"boring from within\" the existing unions in order to disassociate the full organizations from Amsterdam and for Moscow. Such tactics insured bitter internal division as non-Communist members of the rank-and-file and their elected union leaderships sought to maintain existing affiliations.\n\nAs part of its strategy for winning over the existing unions, the Profintern decided to establish a network of what it called \"International Propaganda Committees\" (IPCs), international associations of radical unions and organized fractional minorities in unions that were established on the basis of their specific industry. These groups were intended to conduct conferences and publish and distribute pamphlets and periodicals in order to propagandize for the idea of revolution and for the establishment the dictatorship of the proletariat. The IPCs were to attempt to raise funds to help sustain their efforts, with the governing Executive Bureau of Profintern subsidizing their publications. By August 1921 a total of 14 IPCs had been established.\n\nThe Profintern's International Propaganda Committees proved ineffectual in changing the opinions of union memberships. Unions began to expel their radical dissidents and international unions began to expel those national sections which participated in the activities of the Profintern, exemplified by the October 1921 expulsion of the Dutch Transport Workers' Federation from its international trade organization.\n\nThe 2nd World Congress of RILU was held in Moscow in November 1922, in conjunction with the 4th World Congress of the Comintern.\n\nAs might be expected, the 1922 RILU Congress spent much of its time shaping the application of the Comintern's recently adopted united front policy to the trade union movement. With the prospects for imminent world revolution on the wane, RILU head Solomon Lozovsky proposed an international conference bringing together leaderships of RILU, the Amsterdam International, and various unaffiliated unions — a gathering which was to echo the April 1922 meeting between the Second International, the Two-and-a-Half International, and the Comintern in Berlin \"to work out parallel forms and methods of struggle against the offensive of capitalism.\"\n\nIn retrospect, 1922 marked the high-water mark for the Profintern's size and influence in Europe, with a sizable new contingent joining the organization's ranks in France when the Confédération Genérale du Travail (CGT) attempted to discipline and expel its syndicalist members but ended up causing a full scale organizational split in which the majority of French trade unionists affiliated with a new \"Red\" union.\n\nAdditional headway was made in Czechoslovakia, where a majority of trade union members similarly affiliated with RILU, following a campaign of expulsions of Communist individuals and unions by the Social Democratic leadership. In October 1922 the Czech Red unions held a congress of their own, formalizing the split with the Social Democratic unions. It is worthy of mention that the Communist Party of Czechoslovakia was an extremely large organization in this period, claiming 170,000 members in 1922, dwarfing all but a few Communist parties around the world.\n\nIn Bulgaria the All-Bulgarian Federation of unions chose to affiliate with the Profintern outright, but even that movement was split when opponents established a rival organization called the Free Federation of Trade Unions. Spain, too, saw its national labor movement formally divided. The climate was acrimonious as bitter charges and counter-charges levying responsibility for the shattering the trade union movement flew in all directions.\n\nThe professed desire of the Profintern for a united front came to fruition of sorts in December 1922, when the organization met at a peace conference in The Hague with representatives of the rival Amsterdam International, presided over by British union leader J.H. Thomas. As was the case with the meeting of the three political Internationals earlier in the year, the session ended in failure, with accusations flying in both directions and Lozovsky's plea for a united front arbitrarily dismissed as a transparent tactical ploy.\n\nThis failure was followed up in January 1923 by a joint appeal of the Comintern and Profintern for the creation of an \"action committee against fascism,\" followed in March with the establishment of a formal Action Committee Against Fascism in Berlin, headed by Clara Zetkin. An international conference of this group was called to be held later that same month in Frankfurt, Germany with invitations extended to the parties of the Second International and the unions of the Amsterdam International, but only a few Social Democrats attended, the overwhelming majority of the gathering being Communists. Delegates from Germany, Soviet Russia, France, and Britain united to denounce the Versailles Peace Treaty and the related Occupation of the Ruhr by France to enforce the onerous reparations levied against Germany. The die had been cast, however, and no joint activities between the political or union leaders of the Social Democratic and Communist Internationals would be result from the initiative.\n\nLozovsky reported on RILU's progress to the 12th Congress of the Russian Communist Party in April 1923, at which he claimed that the Profintern represented 13 million unionists against 14 or 15 million for the rival Amsterdam International. This figure is regarded by at least one serious historian of the matter as \"probably exaggerated.\"\n\nThe 3rd World Congress of the Profintern opened on July 8, 1924, having been scheduled to begin in Moscow immediately following the 5th World Congress of the Comintern (June 17 to July 8, 1924). Seventy delegates from the Profintern were made \"consultative\" (non-voting) delegates to the Comintern gathering, assuring a very close connection between the two gatherings.\n\nThe 1924 Congress formally marked a hardening of the Communist attitude towards the Social Democratic labor movement, declaring that \"fascism and democracy are two forms of the bourgeois dictatorship.\"\n\nThe most contentious issue debated by the Congress related to the strategy and tactics of seeking unity with the Amsterdam International, thereby bringing an end to the disruption suffered by the labor movement as a result of the split into two internationals. With forcing the IFTU to capitulate untenable and independent entry of the Russian trade unions into their the industrial federations affiliated with the IFTU, the sole option remaining, in Solomon Lozovsky's view, was to attempt to achieve some sort of fusion of the two Internationals through an international conference. Lozovsky contended that unity was not to be achieved through the sacrifice of the Profintern's program or tactics and the blind acceptance of reformism, but rather was to be accompanied by the penetration of communist ideas into the minds of the rank-and-file trade unionists of the European unions.\n\nA proposal was made by Gaston Monmousseau of France calling for a World Unity Congress of the Red and Amsterdam Internationals, and a committee of 35 delegates was selected to debate the proposal and to flesh out the practical details. Following two days of debate, the commission reported back to the assembled Congress, bringing with it a unity proposal that had been accepted in the preliminary hearings with one sole dissenting vote. The final proposal for a unity congress proved little more than a platitude, however, with the resolution declaring that such a gathering \"\"might,\" after suitable preparation of the masses\" prove appropriate. There was no firm directive instructing the Profintern Executive Board to action.\n\nWith relations between the Profintern and the IFTU at the point of insoluble stalemate, Soviet trade union authorities began to concentrate on bilateral relationships with social democratic union movements. Particular attention was placed on the unions of Great Britain, with Russian union chief Mikhail Tomsky traveling to the UK in 1924, followed by a reciprocal visit in November of that year of a high-level delegation headed by A.A. Purcell of the Trades Union Congress. From the Soviet standpoint the British unionists were positively affected by their visit, publishing an extensive and generally favorable report of the Soviet situation upon their return to the UK. This month-long visit of the British trade union delegation would be the prototype for a series of similar visits of the Soviet Union by western union leaders.\n\nWhile the groundwork for ties between the Soviet and western trade union movement began to be successfully laid, the situation between the international organizations based in Amsterdam and Moscow festered. The Second International and the IFTC held a joint meeting in Brussels during the first week of January 1925 and emerged with a scathing denunciation of the Soviet Union and its sympathizers in the British trade union movement that were organized in a RILU-subsidized organization known as the National Minority Movement. A similar presence in the American Federation of Labor in the form of the Trade Union Educational League went without comment owing to the AFL's ongoing refusal to affiliate with the Amsterdam International. These objections by the IFTU failed to stymie continued development of bilateral Soviet-British ties, however, as in April 1925 Tomsky returned to London as part of an effort to establish a joint committee for trade union unity between the two countries.\n\nIf Tomsky had the ulterior motive of seeking to win British unionists to the ranks of the Profintern, he was met with a surprising reversal, as E.H. Carr noted in 1964:\n\"The British leaders had little interest in Profintern, which they secretly regarded, from the experience of the British movement, either as a nuisance or as a sham, and wished, by reconciling the Soviet trade unions with the existing [Amsterdam] International. to strengthen it and give it a turn to the Left. The British delegates probably shocked their Soviet colleagues by coming out openly in favour of the affiliation of the Russian unions to IFTU.\"\n\nTomsky, although diplomatic in his reply, rejected the British suggestion out of hand as an abject surrender to the Amsterdam International akin to the 1918 forced surrender of Soviet Russia to Imperial Germany at Brest-Litovsk. Still, with the New Economic Policy in full swing in Soviet Russia, with its associated liberalization of culture and trade, the position of the Soviet trade union movement with relationship to social democratic unions in the West was secure and orderly, despite the failure of efforts to parlay with top leaders of the Amsterdam International.\n\nAs was the case with the Communist International, formal World Congresses of RILU happened with decreasing frequency over the life of the organization. This stands to reason, since RILU World Congresses were scheduled in conjunction with the World Congresses of the Comintern itself, generally launching upon conclusion of the Comintern event. And just as the Comintern began making use of shorter, smaller, and less formal international conventions called \"Enlarged Plenums of the Executive Committee\" to handle international policy-making, similar gatherings were adopted for RILU, called \"Sessions of the Central Council.\"\n\nThe 4th Session of the Central Council, held in Moscow from March 9–15, 1926, began just as the 6th Enlarged Plenum of ECCI came to a close. At both of these gatherings Solomon Lozovsky had delivered reports which identified Great Britain — where a miners' strike was in the air — and in particular the countries of Asia and the Pacific as areas presenting the greatest opportunities for the Profintern in its attempt to construct a world revolutionary movement. Amsterdam had paid scant attention to Asia, leaving the field open to the Profintern's efforts, Lozovsky noted in his report to the Comintern Executive. RILU did make an effort to break new organizational ground outside of Europe as early as February 1922 when it established a Moscow office comparable to the Comintern's Eastern Bureau, headed by Buffalo, New York druggist Boris Reinstein, Bulgarian-American IWW member George Andreychine, and H. Eiduss. But now, even as European prospects dimmed, the situation looked brighter in Asia and the Pacific.\n\nBest of all, from the perspective of the Profintern, was the situation in China, with a young and radical worker's movement beginning to spring to life. Soviet prestige and influence had grown in China throughout the early 1920s, particularly from 1924, when diplomatic recognition by the Peking government and an agreement on the Chinese Eastern Railroad was achieved. A Chinese labor movement began to take shape, driven by the efforts of railway workers and seamen to organize, backed with Moscow's support. In the South, a breakaway government based in Canton led by Sun Yat-sen pursued anti-imperialist objectives in conjunction with the Communist Party of China — an estimated 40 of the 200 delegates at the January 20, 1924 founding convention of the Kuomintang (KMT) were said to be communists and the disciplined and centralized party established at that time clearly drew upon the Soviet Communist model. In June 1924 Sun's KMT government in Canton established its own military academy at Whampoa, aided by 3 million rubles in Soviet aid for the purpose as well as Soviet instructors, headed by Vasily Blyukher.\n\nThe working alliance forged between KMT leader Sun and Mikhail Borodin, chief representative of the Comintern in China was lost following Sun's death in Beijing on March 12, 1925. After the leader's death, jockeying began between left and right factions in the KMT; tension between the KMT and the Chinese Communist Party began to build without Sun's calming influence.\n\nOn May 30, 1925, a strike in Shanghai of radical students protesting the arrest of some of their fellows who had been supporting a strike at a cotton mill was fired on by police, killing 12 protestors. A general strike was declared in the city in response and a \"May 30 Movement\" erupted throughout the region. On June 19 a general strike was called in Canton, followed four days later by another incident in which troops fired upon demonstrators in the streets, resulting in a new spate of casualties.\n\nThe rapid growth of the May 30 Movement fueled the Comintern's interest in the revolutionary ferment in China. This new perspective was emphasized by Joseph Stalin, beginning to emerge over the Comintern's Grigory Zinoviev as top leader of the USSR, who in early July 1925 agreed with a reporter for the Tokyo newspaper \"Nichi Nichi Shimbun\" that the revolutionary movement in China, India, Persia, Egypt and \"other Eastern countries\" were growing and that \"the time is drawing near when the Western powers will have to bury themselves in the grave they have dug for themselves in the East.\"\n\nThe full-time secretariat of RILU consisted of the Spaniard, Andrés Nin, the Russian trade unionist Mikhail Tomsky and General Secretary Solomon Lozovsky.\n\nIn addition to its Moscow headquarters, RILU soon established four overseas offices — Berlin (\"Central European Bureau\"), Paris (\"Latin Bureau\"), Bulgaria (\"Balkan Bureau\") and London (\"British Bureau\").\n\nIn May 1927, the Pan-Pacific Trade Union Secretariat was established in Shanghai as RILU's coordinating center for Asia and the Pacific.\n\nIn 1928, RILU launched the \"Confederación Sindical Latino-Americana\" (CSLA) as the Latin American branch of RILU — the first general labor movement in Latin America. This group was the forerunner of the Confederación de los Trabajadores de América Latina (CTAL), established in 1936.\n\nRILU established national sections around the world. In Britain, the Bureau worked closely with the National Minority Movement. The Communist Party of Canada established a national section called the Workers' Unity League. The American section began in 1922 as the Trade Union Educational League, succeeded in 1929 by a more radical variant which attempted to establish dual unions, the Trade Union Unity League.\n\nThe Profintern was dissolved in 1937 as Stalin's foreign policy shifted towards the Popular Front.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1996795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996795", "title": "Fort Independence", "text": "Fort Independence\n\nFort Independence is the name of several forts in the United States:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1996797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996797", "title": "Achterdam", "text": "Achterdam\n\nThe Achterdam is a red light district in the Dutch city of Alkmaar, 30 km North of Amsterdam. It is the only place in Alkmaar where window prostitution is permitted. It is situated about 10 minutes walk from the Alkmaar train station. It is a 150-metre-long street with window prostitution on both sides. The area has about 69 windows with rooms. Mainly Eastern European women work there.\n\nThere are about 69 windows with rooms. The rate paid by prostitutes to rent rooms is 125 Euros per day, with prostitutes applying daily for rooms on a first come, first served basis.\n\nThe windows are all privately owned and the street is administered under the guidance of the Municipal government and police. There is a private security service and security cameras for safety.\n\nIn order to prevent exploitation and trafficking a number of measures are in place:\n\nThe rent for the room includes cleaning, maintenance, towels, bed linen and wi-fi.\n\nOpening hours are from 09:00 to 01:00.\n\nThe prostitutes are all members of the \"Association of Achterdam\" and are visited weekly by support workers from \"Aanloophuis De Steiger\". Medical check-ups are available on alternate Tuesdays\n\nProstitution has been practiced in Alkmaar for at least two centuries. In 1811, the French government (Alkmaar was part of the French Empire at this time) set regulations for \"\"huizen van ontucht\"\" in Alkmaar. This was one of the first cities with rules for prostitution.\n\nIn 1991, the city council adopted a policy paper \"\" (\"Prostitution and other sex institutions\"). It was intended to be model European prototype. The Achterdam window prostitution it proposed was first operational in 1973.\n\nFollowing the October 2000 abolition of the law banning brothels, sex establishments in Alkmaar, such as the houses on the Achterdam, have been allowed provided they have a license from the municipal council. In the 2000s there were between 120 and 125 prostitution windows operating in Achterdam.\n\nFrom May 2001, prostitutes needed full EU passports or EU residence permits to work in Achterdam. As a result, all Bulgarians and Rumanians women could no longer work in Achterdam. This left a number of empty windows which were filled by other East Europeans, Latin American women and (older) Dutch sex workers.\n\nDuring the 2000s there were complaints about the alleged nuisance resulting from prostitution in Achterdam. This led to the windows having to close by 1am.\n\nIn 2004 and again in 2015, the window operators held an \"open day\" during which members of the public could tour the premises and speak to the prostitutes.\n\nIn 2007 licenses were revoked for brothels alleged to be involved in money laundering.\n\nFollowing changes in licensing rules in 2011 the number of prostitution windows was limited to a maximum of 69.\n\nIn 2012 the Central Alkmaar Residents' Association campaigned for the end of all window prostitution in Achterdam, while the window operators proposed an end to the 69-window limit.\n\nThere have been anti-trafficking raids at various times. The biggest was in March 2013 when more than 500 employees of the Municipality of Alkmaar, Public Prosecutors Office and the police were involved in the raid. All prostitutes, window owners and anybody in the street at the time were arrested and questioned.\n\nTwo prostitutes were murdered in Achterdam in 1996. One of the murderers was identified from CCTV but fled the country. The second murderer was never identified.\n\nIn 2007, 92 of the windows were run by Koos Nool, who also owned some of the windows. Others were owned by Cor van Hout, who was involved in the kidnapping of Freddy Heineken. When Nool applied to renew his licenses, Alkmaar Mayor Piet Bruinooge refused the license renewal on the advice of the Bureau BIBOB, on suspicion of money laundering and that the windows had been brought with money from crime. Nool challenged the decision in the Alkmaar Court, which decided there was \"insufficient information on the serious risk that the permit would be misused for illegal purposes\". On appeal in the Administrative Law Division of the Council of State (ABrVS), based on further information from the Bureau BIBOB, the Court ruled the Mayor had been justified in refusing the permit application.\n\nA number of females of Turkish-German descent were convicted of human trafficking in 2008 (the so-called SNEEP Case). They had been forcing women, mostly from East Europe, to work as prostitutes. The victims were lured to the Netherlands and forced to work in the windows. Some women were forced to undergo breast enlargement surgery and have the traffickers initials tattooed on their neck.\n\nA Moroccan man was jailed for 1 year for trafficking a girl to Achterdam in November 2010.\n\nIn March 2013 two men, one Hungarian, the other Romanian, were was arrested for human trafficking during a raid on Achterdam. In November that year another man was arrested, again for trafficking.\n\n"}
{"id": "1996801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996801", "title": "List of compositions for cello and piano", "text": "List of compositions for cello and piano\n\nThis is a list of compositions for cello and piano. It includes sonatas as well as other short pieces for cello and piano.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nDuet Op. 31 (1805)\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1996804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996804", "title": "Ashley Scott", "text": "Ashley Scott\n\nAshley McCall Scott (born July 13, 1977) is an American actress and model, best known for her roles in the television series \"Jericho\", \"Birds of Prey\", and \"Dark Angel\". She had a major role in the 2004 remake of \"Walking Tall\", and has starred in a number of television movies on the Lifetime network since 2010.\n\nScott was born in Metairie, Louisiana, but raised in Charleston, South Carolina.\n\nShe began her modeling career as a young girl and was a 1993 Elite Model Look finalist. As a teenager, Scott became a model for Elite Miami. She modeled internationally in fashion shows in Miami, Paris and London. Scott has modeled for photos on the cover of numerous publications.\n\nScott's first screen credit was as Gigolo Jane in the 2001 feature film \"A.I. Artificial Intelligence\". While Scott has had supporting roles and bit parts in a number of feature films – including \"Walking Tall\" (2004), \"Into the Blue\" (2005), \"The Kingdom\" (2007), and \"12 Rounds\" (2009) – she has had a number of lead and recurring roles on television.\n\nIn 2001, she was cast as series regular Asha Barlow on the Fox science fiction series \"Dark Angel\". In 2002, Scott was cast as Helena Kyle / Huntress on the WB television drama series \"Birds of Prey\". \n\nIn 2004, she played the role of Allison on \"Joey\" in the unbroadcast pilot.\nShe starred as Emily Sullivan for both seasons (2006—2009) on the CBS series \"Jericho\". She was also cast as series regular Mary in the first season (2015) of the Lifetime network's comedy-drama series \"UnREAL\".\n\nSince 2010, Scott has starred in a number of made for television movies, primarily for the Lifetime network.\n\nIn 2013, she voiced the character Maria in the video game \"The Last of Us\".\n\nIn October 2019, it was reported that Scott would reprise her role as Helena Kyle/Huntress in the Arrowverse crossover \"Crisis on Infinite Earths\".\n\nScott was married to producer Anthony Rhulen (\"The Butterfly Effect\", \"Lucky Number Slevin\") from 2004 to 2008. In 2010, she married Steve Hart, lead singer of the band Worlds Apart. Their divorce was finalized in 2019. She currently resides in Los Angeles with her two daughters.\n\n"}
{"id": "1996811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996811", "title": "Buddy Lazier", "text": "Buddy Lazier\n\nBuddy Lazier (born October 31, 1967) is an American auto racing driver, best known for winning the 1996 Indianapolis 500 and the 2000 Indy Racing League season championship.\n\nLazier began his career in the 1980s by competing in such series as the IMSA GT Championship, the SCCA Canadian-American Challenge Cup and the American Indycar Series. Lazier won the American Indycar Series championship in 1988. Lazier started his IndyCar career in 1989 by competing in the Indy Car World Series. During the season, Lazier failed to qualify for the Indianapolis 500. Lazier eventually qualified for the Indianapolis 500 in 1991. During his Champ Car career, Lazier often drove for teams that used older chassis and engines; his best finish in the Champ Car standings was a 19th-place finish in 1992.\n\nLazier began to compete in the newly formed Indy Racing League in 1996. Lazier won the Indianapolis 500 that season, and he became one of the most dominant drivers in the series for a period of time, winning eight races overall and the series championship in 2000. Lazier began to drive only at the Indianapolis 500 in 2007 and continued to enter the Indianapolis 500 through 2009. He did not return to the series until 2013 at the Indianapolis 500 when he competed for Lazier Partners Racing, a team started by his father Bob Lazier and various investors. Lazier and the team repeated their efforts in 2014, 2015, 2016 and, for the final time, in 2017.\n\nLazier was born in Vail, Colorado.\n\nFor 1986, Lazier competed in the SCCA Canadian-American Challenge Cup, driving the No. 43 car for the Texas American Racing Team, driving a Watson 82. Lazier made his début at the second race of the season at Summit Point Motorsports Park. Lazier failed to start the race and was credited with an 18th-place finish. Lazier also competed at St. Louis International Raceway; he started fifth and finished in twelfth place due to a chassis issue. Lazier finished in 26th place in the final standings with 4 points. In 1987, Lazier remained with the Texas American Racing Team, driving the No. 19 March 85C car. At the season-opening race at Willow Springs International Raceway, Lazier qualified on pole position, led 22 of 48 laps and won the race. Lazier also qualified on pole position at Wisconsin State Fairgrounds Park Speedway, led for 25 laps but ultimately finished in 9th place. Lazier finished in third place at Pueblo Motorsports Park and fourth place at the season-ending race at Phoenix International Raceway. Lazier finished in 4th place in the final championship standings with 62 points.\n\nIn 1989, Lazier competed in the IMSA GT Championship, driving the No. 43 Motorsports Marketing Fabcar CL FEP/002-Porsche with John Higgens, Lorenzo Lamas and Justus Reid in the Lights class. Lazier only drove the car at the season-opening SunBank 24 at Daytona. The car started in 46th place but ultimately retired after 395 laps due to an engine failure. The car was classified 4th place in its class and in 31st place overall. In 1993, Lazier returned to the series to compete, in the Lights class, in the season-opening Rolex 24 at Daytona in the No. 42 Pro-Technik Racing Fabcar FEP/002-Porsche with Anthony Lazzaro, Chris Ivey, Mike Sheehan and Sam Shalala. The car started in 58th place overall and finished in 25th overall, 7th place in its class. Lazier only competed at Daytona, therefore finishing in 23rd place in the final Lights championship standings with 18 points.\n\nLazier began to compete in the American Indycar Series in 1988 after Lazier's car owner and teammate, Bill Tempero, purchased Can-Am. Lazier drove a March 85C for Tempero's Texas American Racing Team. At the season-opening race at Willow Springs International Raceway, Lazier qualified on pole position and won the race. Lazier also won the Illinois Grand Prix at St. Louis International Raceway from pole position, the race at Tioga Motorsports Park and both races at the season-ending Bud Light 100 at Willow Springs. The only race that Lazier did not win was the AMG Eurospeed Grand Prix of Colorado at Mountain View Motorsports Park, where Lazier finished second to Robby Unser. Lazier won the inaugural season championship with 152 points.\n\nFor 1989, Lazier returned with the Texas American Racing Team, driving a March 85C. At the season-opening races at I-70 Speedway, Lazier finished second to Unser in the first race and crashed out of the second race after completing 10 laps. At the second pair of races at Memphis Motorsports Park, Lazier qualified on pole position for the second race. Lazier won the second race at Colorado National Speedway. Lazier finished the season by winning the first race at Willow Springs before retiring from the second race due to a motor mount issue. Lazier finished in 7th place in the final standings with 173 points.\n\nIn 1989, Lazier attempted to qualify for his first CART Indy Car World Series race, the Indianapolis 500. Lazier drove the No. 35 Lazier Racing March 87C-Cosworth DFX. Lazier crashed in practice and failed to qualify for the race. Lazier later drove for Gary Trout Motorsports in the No. 23 March 87C-Cosworth DFX at the season-ending Champion Spark Plug 300 at Laguna Seca Raceway. Lazier again failed to qualify for the race. In 1990, Lazier first competed at the Indianapolis 500. Lazier drove for Hemelgarn Racing in the No. 91 Lola T88/00-Buick. Lazier crashed his primary car in practice but was able to provisionally qualify for the race in his back-up car. At the beginning of Bump Day, Lazier was the slowest car in the field. John Paul Jr. bumped Lazier from the field and Lazier ultimately failed to qualify. Lazier drove a partial season for Hemelgarn, moving to the team's No. 71 car. Lazier qualified for his first 500-mile race at the Marlboro 500 at Michigan International Speedway in the No. 24 Penske PC17-Buick for Arciero Racing. Lazier started and finished in 26th, retiring from the race early on due to a gearbox problem. Lazier achieved a best finish of 12th place at the Molson Indy Vancouver at Concord Pacific Place, scoring his only championship point of 1990 – a result which scored him 29th place in the final standings.\n\nFor 1991, Lazier drove for various teams in various cars. Lazier first drove for Dale Coyne Racing in the No. 90 Lola T88/00-Cosworth DFX at the season-opening Gold Coast IndyCar Grand Prix at the Surfers Paradise Street Circuit. Lazier started 24th, but his race lasted just over a lap due to suspension failure. Lazier moved to Todd Walther Racing and the No. 44 Lola Cars T89/00-Cosworth DFS at the Toyota Grand Prix of Long Beach. Lazier started in 26th place, but retired after 8 laps due to an engine failure. Lazier returned to Hemelgarn Racing at the Indianapolis 500 in the No. 71 Lola T90/00-Buick. Lazier qualified for the race for the first time, starting 23rd. On the first lap of the race, Gary Bettenhausen got sideways in turn 1 and Lazier hit the outside wall in avoidance; he continued to the pit lane where he retired due to accident damage. Lazier was credited with a 33rd-place finish.\n\nLazier was entered in the No. 19 Lola T90/00-Cosworth DFS for Dale Coyne Racing at the Miller Genuine Draft 200 at the Milwaukee Mile, but Dale Coyne replaced Lazier prior to qualifying. At the following race, the Valvoline Grand Prix of Detroit, Lazier returned to Coyne's No. 90 car, now utilizing a Lola T90/00-Cosworth DFS. Lazier started in 20th place and finished in 18th place, five laps down. Lazier returned to the No. 19 car for the Budweiser Grand Prix of Cleveland at Cleveland Burke Lakefront Airport. Lazier started in 20th place but recorded his first points-scoring finish of the season with an eleventh-place finish, albeit four laps down. After the event, two of the teams that Lazier had driven for in the 1991 season – Hemelgarn Racing and Dale Coyne Racing – formed an alliance, resulting in the team being called Hemelgarn Coyne Racing. Lazier drove for the team at the Molson Indy Toronto at Exhibition Place. Lazier started in 20th place, but retired after 17 laps due to an engine failure.\nLazier drove the same car at the Texaco/Havoline Grand Prix of Denver, where he recorded his best results of the 1991 season. Lazier started in 16th place and finished in 9th place, two laps down. Lazier moved to Walker Racing, driving the No. 10 Lola T90/00-Cosworth DFS at the Pioneer Electronics 200 at Mid-Ohio Sports Car Course. Lazier started in 17th place but did not complete a single lap due to an electrical issue. Lazier returned to Coyne's No. 90 car at the Texaco/Havoline 200 at Road America. Lazier started in 19th place but again did not complete a single lap due to an electrical issue. Lazier then competed in the season-ending Toyota Monterey Grand Prix at Laguna Seca for Hemelgarn Coyne Racing in No. 39 Lola T90/00-Cosworth DFS. Lazier started in 21st place but retired after 41 laps due to an engine failure. Lazier finished in 22nd place in the final championship standings with 6 points.\n\nIn 1992, Lazier began to drive for Leader Card Racing and at first, drove the No. 21 Lola T90/00-Buick. At the season-opening Daikyo IndyCar Grand Prix at Surfers Paradise, Lazier started in 20th place and finished in 16th place, eighteen laps down. At the Valvoline 200 at Phoenix International Raceway, Lazier started in 17th place and finished in 14th place, thirty-three laps down. Lazier scored his first point of the season at the Toyota Grand Prix of Long Beach, scoring a 12th-place finish despite running out of fuel after completing 80 of the race's 105 laps. At the Indianapolis 500, Lazier began to drive an unsponsored Lola T91/00-Buick. Lazier crashed during practice for the race, but he was able to make the field, in 24th place. Lazier retired due to an engine failure after completing 139 laps, and was scored in 14th place. At the following two races, the ITT Automotive Grand Prix of Detroit and the Budweiser G.I. Joe's 200 at Portland International Raceway, Lazier was scored in 24th place on both occasions, retiring due to a broken half shaft at Detroit and a clutch problem at Portland.\n\nThe team regained sponsorship from Seaway Food Town and Project Pacific, when they used the T90/00 at the Miller Genuine Draft 200 at the Milwaukee Mile where Lazier started and finished in 17th place, twenty-four laps down. The team added sponsorship from Viper Auto Security for the rest of the season starting with the Molson Indy Toronto at Exhibition Place, where Lazier started in 20th place and finished in 15th place, twelve laps down. Lazier recorded his best finish of the season at the following race, the Marlboro 500 at Michigan International Speedway, with a 7th-place finish, fourteen laps down. Starting at the Budweiser Grand Prix of Cleveland at Cleveland Burke Lakefront Airport, the team used an Ilmor-Chevrolet engine; Lazier started and finished in 23rd place due to an engine failure after 25 laps. The team reverted to Buick for the Bosch Spark Plug Grand Prix at Pennsylvania International Raceway. Lazier started in 19th place and finished in 15th place, fifteen laps down. Lazier finished a career-best 19th in the championship with 10 points.\n\nFor 1993, Lazier returned with Leader Card Racing to drive the No. 20 Lola T91/00-Ilmor. At the season-opening Australian FAI IndyCar Grand Prix at Surfers Paradise, Lazier started in 25th place but retired after 35 laps due to a suspension failure. At Phoenix, Lazier started in 18th place and finished in 17th place due to a header problem after 141 laps. Lazier finished his first race of the season at Long Beach; he started in 24th place and finished in 19th place, fifteen laps down. At the Indianapolis 500, the team once again acquired sponsorship from Viper Auto Security, and restored a Buick engine to the chassis. During qualifying Lazier's car blew an engine and was unable to qualify for the race. At Milwaukee, Seaway Food Town and Project Pacific returned as the sponsors for the team. Lazier started in 20th place and finished in 15th place, thirteen laps down.\n\nAt the ITT Automotive Grand Prix of Detroit, Lazier started in 26th place but crashed out of the race after completing 55 laps. The team then used a Lola T92/00-Ilmor at Cleveland and Michigan. At Cleveland, the car had additional sponsorship from Viper Auto Security and Applebee's; Lazier started in 23rd place but suffered an electrical issue after completing 61 laps. At Michigan, the car was unsponsored and Lazier started in 18th place. Oil pressure problems occurred during the race, forcing Lazier's retirement after completing 43 laps. The team restored the Buick engine for the New England 200 at New Hampshire International Speedway, where Lazier failed to qualify. Lazier scored his best finish of the season at the Texaco/Havoline 200 at Road America with a 14th-place finish. The team acquired sponsorship from \"Financial World\" starting at the Pioneer Electronics 200 at Mid-Ohio Sports Car Course; Lazier finished in 20th place in the race, and ultimately finished 35th in the championship.\n\nIn 1994, Lazier returned with Leader Card Racing to drive the No. 23 Lola T93/00-Ilmor. At the season-opening Australian FAI Indycar Grand Prix at Surfers Paradise, Lazier was too slow to qualify. Lazier made his season debut at the next race, the Slick 50 200 at Phoenix. Lazier started in 25th place and finished in a season-best 13th-place finish, ten laps down. At Long Beach, Lazier started in 30th place but retired due to an exhaust problem after completing 6 laps. At the Indianapolis 500, Lazier practiced in his usual Leader Card Racing car, as well as both the No. 94 Hemelgarn Racing Lola T92/00-Buick and the No. 5 Lola T94/00-Ford Cosworth XB for Dick Simon Racing. Lazier did not complete a qualifying attempt in any of the three cars and failed to qualify for the race.\n\nAt the following race, the Miller Genuine Draft 200 at the Milwaukee Mile, Lazier started in 24th place and finished in 18th place, twelve laps down. Lazier started in 27th place at the following race, the ITT Automotive Grand Prix of Detroit, and finished in 17th place, two laps down. Lazier started in 29th place and finished in 24th place in the Budweiser/G. I. Joe's 200 at Portland International Raceway, after running out of fuel after completing 91 laps. Following Portland, Lazier started only two more races during the season. At the Budweiser Grand Prix of Cleveland at Cleveland Burke Lakefront Airport, Lazier was replaced by pay driver Giovanni Lavaggi. Lazier qualified but did not start either the Molson Indy Toronto at Exhibition Place and the Slick 50 200 at New Hampshire, and he failed to qualify at Mid-Ohio and Nazareth. Lazier did however compete in the Marlboro 500 at Michigan International Speedway and the Molson Indy Vancouver at Concord Pacific Place. Lazier started in 21st place at Michigan, but failed to finish due to an electrical issue, while a half shaft problem caused him to retire at Vancouver. Lazier finished in 36th place in the final championship standings.\n\nLazier did not return with Leader Card for 1995, instead driving for various other teams. Lazier first drove for Project Indy in the No. 64 Reynard 94i-Ford Cosworth XB at the second race of the season, the Gold Coast Indy at Surfers Paradise. Lazier started in 24th place and finished in 21st place, retiring with broken transmission after completing 32 laps. Lazier then drove for Payton/Coyne Racing in the No. 19 Lola T94/00-Ford Cosworth XB at Nazareth. Lazier started in 20th place but crashed out of the race with Paul Tracy after completing 38 laps. At the Indianapolis 500, Lazier drove for Team Menard originally in the No. 51 Lola T93/00-Menard. Lazier then practiced the team's No. 40 Lola T95/00-Menard entry that Arie Luyendyk qualified. Lazier qualified on the second day of qualifying in the No. 80 Lola T95/00-Menard, doing so in 23rd place. Lazier retired from the race after 45 laps due to fuel system problems.\n\nLazier returned to Payton/Coyne Racing's No. 19 car, now utilizing a Lola T95/00 chassis, at Milwaukee. Lazier started in 24th place and finished in 18th place, twelve laps down. Lazier returned to Project Indy's No. 64 entry at Toronto. Lazier started in 27th place and finished in 15th place, five laps down. Lazier returned to Payton/Coyne Racing's No. 19 car, which had reverted to the T94/00 chassis, for Michigan. Lazier started in 20th place and finished in a season-best 14th place, twenty-seven laps down. The final race of the season that Lazier competed in was the New England 200 at New Hampshire. Lazier finished in 35th place in the final championship standings.\n\nLazier moved to the Indy Racing League to compete in its inaugural season in 1996 for Hemelgarn Racing in the No. 91 Reynard 95i-Ford Cosworth XB. At the season-opening Indy 200 at Walt Disney World Speedway, Lazier recorded the series' inaugural pole position. In the race Lazier led for 28 laps, but retired due to brake failure after completing 61 laps. During practice for the following race, the Dura Lube 200 at Phoenix International Raceway, Lazier was involved in a crash with Lyn St. James. He suffered a fractured vertebra and was ruled out of the race.\nStill in pain and walking with a cane, Lazier returned two months later for the season-ending race, the Indianapolis 500. His car was fitted with a special shock-absorbing seat to reduce the risk of re-injuring his back. Prior to the race the team gained additional sponsorship from Montana Rail Link. Lazier initially qualified in 7th place but was promoted to 5th place after Arie Luyendyk's time was disallowed and pole sitter Scott Brayton was fatally injured during practice. Lazier was among the leaders all day, battling with Tony Stewart, Davy Jones, Roberto Guerrero and Luyendyk. Stewart retired after 82 laps due to an engine failure and Luyendyk was eliminated after a collision with Eliseo Salazar. Guerrero fell two laps down after having a fire in his pit stall. During caution periods Lazier would raise his hands out of the cockpit to stretch his fingers, prompting many fans, thinking he was waving, to wave back at him. Lazier's team brought him in for his final pit stop several laps later than the rest of the leaders, which put him behind on the track but able to turn up his turbo boost pressure and run faster to the finish. With 10 laps to go Lazier was running in 3rd place behind Jones and Alessandro Zampedri but easily passed both of them over the next two laps and led the rest of the way to win his first IndyCar race, leading a total of 43 laps. Lazier finished 14th in the championship with 159 points.\n\nFor the 1996–97 season, Lazier returned with Hemelgarn Racing. During the 1996 portion of the season, Lazier drove the No. 91 Reynard 95i-Ford Cosworth XB. At the season-opening True Value 200 at New Hampshire International Speedway, Lazier started in 4th place and was running in 2nd place, the only car on the lead lap besides race leader Tony Stewart. On lap 67, race broadcaster ABC was broadcasting Lazier's conversation with his team when Stewart attempted to lap Lazier in turn 4. The two cars then made contact and Lazier spun and crashed into the wall. Unaware that he was on an open mic, Lazier first said, (in reference to Stewart) \"The son of a bitch just ran into the back of me,\" and then said to his pit crew, \"He must have just fucking hit me in the back.\" After being released from the infield care center, Lazier quickly apologized for his language during a pitlane interview. At the following race, the Las Vegas 500K at Las Vegas Motor Speedway, Lazier started in 4th place and retired after 35 laps due to handling issues.\n\nFor the 1997 portion of the season, Lazier drove the No. 91 Dallara IR7-Infiniti, with additional sponsorship from Xerox and Cinergy. At the Indy 200 at Walt Disney World, Lazier started in 11th place and finished in 5th place, his first top-five of the season. At the Phoenix 200 at Phoenix International Raceway, Lazier started in 13th place and finished in 21st place due to an engine failure after 31 laps. Prior to the Indianapolis 500, the Infiniti engine was replaced with an Oldsmobile engine. Lazier qualified in 10th place and was fastest on two practice days post-qualifying. In the race Lazier battled with Luyendyk, Scott Goodyear, Jeff Ward, Stewart and Robbie Buhl, leading for 7 laps and finished fourth behind Luyendyk, Goodyear and Ward. At the following race, the True Value 500 at Texas Motor Speedway, Lazier started in 4th place and led twice for a combined total of 57 laps. On lap 157, Lazier retired from the race due to an engine failure and was scored in 17th place. Lazier then finished in 8th place at the following race, the Samsonite 200 at Pikes Peak International Raceway. Lazier achieved his first win of the season at the VisionAire 500 at Charlotte Motor Speedway, after starting in 5th place and leading for 58 laps. At the Pennzoil 200 at New Hampshire, Lazier started in 15th place and finished in 12th place, five laps down. At the season-ending Las Vegas 500K, Lazier started in 14th place but retired due to a mechanical problem after 4 laps. Lazier finished in 8th place in the final point standings with 209 points, having been as high as 5th during the season.\n\nIn 1998, Lazier returned with Hemelgarn Racing to drive the No. 91 Dallara IR8-Oldsmobile. At the season-opening Indy 200 at Walt Disney World, Lazier started in 8th place after qualifying was rained out. In the race, Lazier led for 34 laps, but crashed out while attempting to lap Stéphan Grégoire in turn 2. At the following race, the Dura Lube 200 at Phoenix, Lazier started in 9th place but retired due to an engine failure after 9 laps. At the Indianapolis 500, Lazier qualified in 11th place. In the race Lazier ran in the top five and battled with Billy Boat, Kenny Bräck, Luyendyk, Greg Ray, John Paul Jr. and Eddie Cheever for the lead. In the final 20 laps, Cheever and Lazier were the main contenders. Lazier closed to within 1.1 seconds of Cheever, and despite a late-race caution due to Marco Greco's car smoking, Cheever led Lazier home at the finish.\n\nAt the following race, the True Value 500 at Texas, Lazier started and finished in 11th place due to a wheel bearing problem after completing 194 laps. Lazier then finished in 7th place at the following race, the New England 200 at New Hampshire. Lazier then achieved his second 2nd-place finish of the season at the Pep Boys 400K at Dover Downs International Speedway after leading for 7 laps. At the following race, the VisionAire 500K at Lowe's Motor Speedway, Lazier started in 14th place and finished in 13th place, thirty-seven laps down. At the Radisson 200 at Pikes Peak, Lazier started in 17th place and finished in 7th place, one lap down. Lazier then started in 18th place at the Atlanta 500 Classic at Atlanta Motor Speedway, but retired due to an engine failure after completing 136 laps. At the following race, the Lone Star 500 at Texas, Lazier started in 19th place and finished in 6th place, two laps down, after leading for 14 laps. At the season-ending Las Vegas 500K at Las Vegas, Lazier started in 17th place and led for 60 laps en route to 3rd place. Lazier finish the season in a then-career best 5th place in the final championship standings with 262 points.\n\nIn 1999, Lazier returned with Hemelgarn Racing to drive the No. 91 Dallara IR9-Oldsmobile. At the season-opening TransWorld Diversified Services Indy 200 at Walt Disney World Speedway, Lazier started in 8th place and finished in 10th place, two laps down. At the second race of the season, the MCI WorldCom 200 at Phoenix, Lazier started in 15th place and was involved in a crash with Eddie Cheever on lap 149 in turn 3. At Lowe's Motor Speedway, Lazier started in 14th place and was soon battling with Ray for the lead; Lazier led for 23 laps. On lap 59 Stan Wattles's car had a suspension failure, with Paul Jr. then hitting the debris from the car sending it into the seating area and three spectators were killed. The race immediately went under caution with Lazier as the leader. Lazier then made a pit stop to replace a punctured tire. After 18 laps of caution the race was abandoned, with no points awarded. At the Indianapolis 500, the team gained additional sponsorship from Tae Bo and Lazier qualified in 22nd place. Lazier was not a factor in the race and finished in 7th place, two laps down.\n\nAt the following race, the Longhorn 500 at Texas, Lazier started in 24th place and finished in 14th place, eight laps down. At Pikes Peak, Lazier started in 12th place and finished in 5th place. At the Kobalt Mechanics Tools 500 at Atlanta, Lazier started in 15th place and finished in 21st place due to a crash on lap 114 with Sam Schmidt while battling for the lead. Lazier then scored his best finish of the season with a 2nd-place finish at the MBNA Mid-Atlantic 200 at Dover Downs, having started in 17th place. Lazier followed this up with a 4th-place finish at the Colorado Indy 200 at Pikes Peak after starting in 9th place. Lazier then finished in 11th place, nine laps down, at the Vegas.com 500 at Las Vegas, after starting in 10th place. Lazier then finished in 10th place, four laps down, at the season-ending Mall.com 500 at Texas after starting in 16th place. Lazier finished the season in 6th place in the final championship standings with 224 points, having been as high as fourth in points.\n\nIn 2000, Lazier first drove the No. 91 Riley & Scott Mk VII-Oldsmobile for Hemelgarn Racing. At the season-opening Delphi Indy 200 at Walt Disney World, Lazier started in 5th place and led for 47 laps and finished in 2nd place. At the second race of the season, the MCI WorldCom Indy 200 at Phoenix, Lazier started in 26th place, having missed qualifying. Lazier first took the lead on lap 151 and led through lap 155 when Robbie Buhl took the lead. Lazier then retook the lead on lap 161 and led the remaining 40 laps to win his first race since the 1997 VisionAire 500. Lazier became the first driver to win an IRL race after starting in last place, and became the third driver to win an Indy car race from last place at Phoenix after Mike Mosley in 1974 and Roberto Guerrero in 1987. Following the race, Lazier led the point standings for the first time in his career.\n\nAt the Vegas Indy 300 at Las Vegas, Lazier started in 22nd place and finished in 20th place due to a fuel pump issue after completing 65 laps. At the Indianapolis 500 the Riley & Scott was replaced by the Dallara IR00 for the remainder of the season. Lazier qualified in 16th place, but quickly moved into the top 5. In the second half of the race, Lazier became one of the few drivers to challenge race leader Juan Pablo Montoya. Lazier set the fastest lap of the race on lap 198 with a speed of . Lazier was unable to catch Montoya, who won by 7.1839 seconds. At the following race, the Casino Magic 500 at Texas, Lazier qualified on pole position and led for 62 laps, but ultimately finished in 7th place. At Pikes Peak, Lazier started in 13th place and retired on the 2nd lap of the race due to an engine failure.\n\nAt the Midas 500 Classic at Atlanta, Lazier started in 11th place and led for 2 laps before finishing in 2nd place. Following the race Lazier retook the points lead, ahead of the inaugural Belterra Resort Indy 300 at Kentucky Speedway. Lazier started in 7th place and led for 40 laps to win his second race of the season, also setting the race's fastest lap. Going into the season-ending Excite 500 at Texas, Lazier led Goodyear by 38 points and Cheever by 41 points, with a maximum of 53 points available. Goodyear won the race ahead of Cheever, while fourth place was good enough for the championship. Lazier won the championship with 290 points, 18 ahead of Goodyear and 33 ahead of Cheever. Lazier is the last driver to be born in the 1960s to win an IndyCar championship.\n\nFor 2001, Lazier drove the No. 91 Dallara IR01-Oldsmobile for Hemelgarn Racing. At the season-opening Pennzoil Copper World Indy 200 at Phoenix, Lazier started in 6th place and finished in 3rd place. At the Infiniti Grand Prix of Miami at Homestead-Miami Speedway, Lazier started in 3rd place and finished in 20th place, after crashing on lap 177 in turn 4. At the following race, the zMax 500 at Atlanta, Lazier started in 9th place and finished in 6th place, one lap down. At the Indianapolis 500, Lazier gained additional sponsorship from Life Fitness for the race and qualified in 10th place. In the race, Lazier came into the pits after 9 laps saying that his engine was running on only seven cylinders. Lazier would eventually rejoin the race and finished in 18th place, eight laps down.\n\nAt the first Texas race, Lazier started in 13th place and finished in 4th place. At Pikes Peak, Lazier started in 5th place and took the lead on lap 157 after Sam Hornish Jr., who had led for 152 of the previous 156 laps, suffered handling issues. Lazier led the remaining 43 laps of the race for his first win of the season. Lazier then won the SunTrust Indy Challenge at Richmond International Raceway after starting in 4th place, leading 224 of 250 laps. Following the race, Lazier moved into 2nd place in the point standings, 50 points behind Hornish. At the Ameristar Casino Indy 200 at Kansas Speedway, Lazier started in 12th place and finished in 5th place after leading for 13 laps. At the next race, the Harrah's 200 at Nashville Superspeedway, Lazier started in 6th place and led for 71 laps en route to his third win of the season. With the win, Lazier took the record for the most wins in the IRL with six.\n\nLazier then won his fourth race of the season at Kentucky after starting in 11th place and led for 84 laps. Following the race Lazier was only 25 points behind Hornish. At the Gateway Indy 250 at Gateway International Raceway, Lazier started in 2nd place after qualifying was rained out. In the race Lazier finished in 13th place, ten laps down. At the following race, the Delphi Indy 300 at Chicagoland Speedway, Lazier started in 9th place and finished in 11th place, two laps down. Hornish finished in 2nd place to Jaques Lazier, to clinch the championship with a round to spare. At the season-ending Chevy 500 at Texas, Lazier started in 2nd place after qualifying was rained out again. Lazier led a lap, but ultimately retired from the race after suffering an engine failure. Despite winning a season-high four races, Lazier finished runner-up to Hornish in the final championship standings with 398 points.\n\nFor 2002, Lazier returned with Hemelgarn Racing to drive the No. 91 Dallara IR02-Chevrolet. At the season-opening Grand Prix of Miami at Homestead, Lazier started in 16th place and finished in 22nd place due to an oil pressure problem after completing 111 laps. At the following race, the Bombardier ATV 200 at Phoenix, Lazier started in 9th place and finished in 7th place. At the Yamaha Indy 400 at California Speedway, Lazier started in 26th place and again finished in 7th place. At the next race, the Firestone Indy 225 at Nazareth, Lazier started in 6th place and was involved in a crash with Sam Hornish Jr. – who continued several laps down – on lap 38 in turn 3 and was scored in 23rd place. At the Indianapolis 500, Lazier qualified in 20th place. In the race, Lazier began to move into the top 10 and with 12 laps remaining Lazier was running in 6th place, on the lead lap. On lap 199 in turn 2 the lapped car of Laurent Rédon lost control and collected Lazier. At the same time Paul Tracy was attempting to pass Hélio Castroneves for the lead in turn 3. Tracy passed Castroneves just after the crash and was the first car to cross the finish line. Indy Racing League officials declared that the pass occurred after the crash and Castroneves was the winner. Tracy's team, Team Green, protested by saying that the caution light was not displayed until after the pass occurred. The original results stood with Lazier finishing in 15th place.\n\nAt the following race, the Boomtown 500 at Texas, Lazier started in 10th place and finished in 8th place. At the Radisson Indy 225 at Pikes Peak, Lazier started in 10th place and finished in 15th place, three laps down. Lazier then finished in 18th place at Richmond due to a fire breaking out on his car after completing 91 laps having started in 5th place. At Kansas, Lazier started in 5th place and finishing in 7th place. At the Firestone Indy 200 at Nashville, Lazier started and finished in 12th place due to a crash on lap 182 in turn 2. At the next race, the Michigan Indy 400 at Michigan, Lazier started in 15th place and finished in 13th place, two laps down. Lazier then finished in 3rd place at the Belterra Casino Indy 300 at Kentucky after starting in 3rd place and leading for 3 laps, the only laps that Lazier led during the season. At Gateway, Lazier started in 18th place and finished in 15th place, nine laps down. At Chicagoland, Lazier started in 22nd place and finished in 3rd place. At the season-ending Chevy 500 at Texas, Lazier started in 20th place and finished in 7th place. Lazier finished in 8th place in the final championship standings with 305 points.\n\nIn 2003, Lazier returned with Hemelgarn Racing to drive the No. 91 Dallara IR03-Chevrolet. At the season-opening Toyota Indy 300 at Homestead, Lazier withdrew from the race and missed his first IRL race since the 1996 Dura Lube 200. At the following race, the Purex Dial Indy 200 at Phoenix, Lazier started in 15th place and finished in 11th place, two laps down. Lazier then started in 17th place and finished in 19th place at the Indy Japan 300 at Twin Ring Motegi due to an engine failure after completing 63 laps. At the Indianapolis 500 Lazier qualified in 21st place. Prior to the race the team gained additional sponsorship from Victory Brands. Lazier retired from the race after 171 laps due to an engine failure. At the Bombardier 500 at Texas, Lazier started in 19th place and finished in 13th place, four laps down. Lazier then got his only top 10 finish of the season with a 10th-place finish at the Honda Indy 225 at Pikes Peak. At Richmond, Lazier started and finished in 20th place, six laps down.\n\nAt the following race, the Kansas Indy 300, Lazier started in 21st place and finished in 13th place, eight laps down. Lazier was running in the top 10 in the late stages at Nashville, when he spun on the main straightaway on lap 194. Lazier woas able to drive back to his pit stall to change the tires on his car, but on lap 199 Lazier crashed in turn 2 and was credited with a 14th-place finish. Lazier then started in 21st at the Firestone Indy 400 at Michigan before finishing in 12th place, four laps down. Lazier then finished 11th place at the Emerson Indy 250 at Gateway. The team then gained sponsorship from Metabolife starting at Kentucky, where Lazier started in 20th place and finished in 16th place, four laps down. Following Chicagoland, where Lazier finished one lap down in 16th place, Lazier was replaced by Richie Hearn for the final two races of the season, the Toyota Indy 400 at Fontana and the Chevy 500 at Texas. Lazier finished in 19th place in the final championship standings with 201 points.\n\nIn 2004, Hemelgarn Racing was unable to acquire sponsorship for the entire season, leaving Lazier without a car to drive for the season. Lazier only competed in the Indianapolis 500. Lazier first practiced in the No. 24 Dallara IR03-Chevrolet for Dreyer & Reinbold Racing on May 21, two days before Bump Day. Felipe Giaffone had already qualified the team's primary car and Lazier was practicing for the team in both Giaffone's qualified car and also the team's back-up car in preparation for potentially attempting to qualify for the race. On Lazier's first day on the track, he was the fastest of the unqualified drivers with a speed of . Hemelgarn Racing became the entrant of the car while Dreyer & Reinbold partnered with the team. The back-up car became the No. 91 Dallara IR03-Chevrolet and Lazier started in 28th place. In the race Lazier moved through the field into the top 15 positions and was running in 12th place when he retired after 164 laps due to a fuel system failure. Lazier finished in 30th place in the final championship standings with 12 points.\n\nIn 2005, Lazier again did not have a full-time team to drive for. Lazier drove for Panther Racing at the Indianapolis 500 in the No. 95 Dallara IR03-Chevrolet. Lazier qualified for the race in 9th place, beating Panther Racing's two full-time drivers Tomáš Enge and Tomas Scheckter. On the final day of practice before the race, Carb Day, Lazier crashed in turn 4 and slid along the outside wall on the main straightaway. Lazier was not injured in the crash and the car was repaired by race day. Prior to the race the team acquired Jiffy Lube as an additional primary sponsor on the car. Lazier ran in the top 10 for most of the race, despite Scott Sharp making contact with Lazier's car earlier in the race, damaging the front wing. Lazier continued in the race and passed Sébastien Bourdais for 5th place, just before Bourdais crashed out of the race.\n\nWith Lazier's Indianapolis performance, Panther Racing fielded an additional car for Lazier in four races. Lazier drove the same car he drove at Indianapolis, with sponsorship from Pennzoil, Jonathan Byrd's Cafeteria and the American Sentry Guard. At Nashville, Lazier started in 3rd place and finished in 9th place. Lazier then competed in the following race, the ABC Supply Company A. J. Foyt 225 at the Milwaukee Mile, after teammate Enge was injured at Nashville. Lazier drove the No. 2 Dallara IR05-Chevrolet. In the race, Lazier started in 5th place and was scored in 18th place after crashing out after 129 laps. Lazier returned to the No. 95 at Michigan, where he started and finished in 6th place. Lazier then started in 8th place and finished in 6th place at the following race, the AMBER Alert Portal Indy 300 at Kentucky. The final race that Lazier contested in the 2005 season was the Peak Antifreeze Indy 300 at Chicagoland. In the race, Lazier started in 7th place and finished in 10th place. Lazier finished in 23rd place in the final championship standings with 140 points. Following the season, Panther downsized to one car for the 2006 season due to their engine supplier, Chevrolet, and their sponsor, Pennzoil, leaving the series at the end of the 2005 season.\n\nIn 2006, Lazier returned to Dreyer & Reinbold Racing after practicing for the team at the 2004 Indianapolis 500. Lazier drove the No. 5 Dallara IR03-Honda. Lazier attempted to compete in his first full-time season since 2002. At the season-opening Toyota Indy 300 at Homestead, Lazier started in 14th place. The race weekend was overshadowed by the death of Paul Dana in final practice; Lazier retired after 12 laps due to an electrical problem, and was scored in 14th. Lazier competed in his first non-oval race at the Honda Grand Prix of St. Petersburg. Lazier started in 18th place and was scored in 14th place due to a brake problem after completing 59 laps. At Motegi, Lazier started in 15th place and finished in 14th place, five laps down. At the Indianapolis 500, Lazier qualified in 25th place. Lazier was running in the top 10 in the second half of the race, but had to make a late-race pit stop to have enough fuel to finish the race and he finished in 12th place, one lap down; his best result of the season.\n\nLazier was then replaced by Ryan Briscoe for the following race, the Watkins Glen Indy Grand Prix at the Watkins Glen International road course. Lazier returned to the team at the following race, the Bombardier Learjet 500 at Texas. Lazier started in 15th place but retired due to a fuel pump failure after 56 laps. Lazier started in 19th place at Richmond and finished in 16th place, five laps down. Lazier scored his best start of the season at the Kansas Lottery Indy 300 at Kansas with a 7th place start. Lazier finished in 15th place, six laps down. Lazier was then replaced by Briscoe for the next two races before returning at Michigan. Lazier started and finished in 15th place, two laps down. For the remainder of the season Briscoe and Sarah Fisher drove the car, which resulted in Lazier finishing in 18th place in the final championship standings with 122 points.\n\nFor 2007, Lazier had no team to drive for the entire season. Lazier drove for Sam Schmidt Motorsports, a team owned by Lazier's former competitor Sam Schmidt, at the Indianapolis 500. Lazier drove the No. 99 Dallara IR05-Honda. Lazier qualified for the race on the second day of qualifying in 22nd place. Lazier had been bumped from the field earlier in the day by Buddy Rice and later bumped Jon Herb from the field. Towards the end of the qualifying day, Lazier's brother Jaques Lazier attempted to qualify for the race, but his speed was too slow and he was waved off. In the race, Lazier ran in the middle of the field and was never in contention for a top 10 finish. Lazier finished in 19th place, two laps down, in the rain-shortened race. Indianapolis was the only race that Lazier competed in during the season and he finished in 28th place in the final championship standings with 12 points.\nIn 2008, Lazier returned to Hemelgarn-Johnson Racing for the Indianapolis 500 only, in the No. 91 Dallara IR05-Honda. Lazier qualified for the race on the third day of qualifying in 32nd place with a speed of . On Bump Day, A. J. Foyt IV bumped Marty Roth from the field, but Roth would requalify and bumped Lazier from the field. In the final half-hour of the day, Lazier attempted to requalify for the race, but his speed was too slow and his team waved off the attempt after three laps. Dan Wheldon, who had qualified in 2nd place, and his Chip Ganassi Racing team helped Lazier with set up information. With about 13 minutes left in qualifying, Lazier made another attempt and qualified for the race, in 32nd place, at a speed of , bumping Mario Domínguez from the field. After qualifying, the team received primary sponsorship from LifeLock after Max Papis failed to qualify for the race in a car sponsored by the company. On lap 169 in the race, Lazier and Milka Duno made contact in turn 3 and Duno spun into the warm-up lane. Lazier finished the race in 17th place, five laps down. Lazier finished the season in 37th place in the final championship standings with 13 points.\n\nFor 2009, Lazier returned with Hemelgarn-Johnson Racing to drive the No. 91 Dallara IR05-Honda. Lazier began practicing on May 14 in preparation for attempting to qualify on the second and final weekend of qualifying. On the third day of qualifying, Lazier posted a qualifying speed of . Later in the day, Milka Duno bumped Lazier from the field with a speed of . Lazier made a second qualifying attempt on Bump Day. Lazier failed to reach and his team waved off his attempt. Lazier's car was put into the qualifying line late in the day for another attempt, but qualifying ended while Ryan Hunter-Reay was on his qualifying attempt and Alex Tagliani was in line ahead of Lazier. Lazier failed to qualify for his first Indianapolis 500 since 1994.\n\nIn 2010, Lazier was without a car to drive for the season after Hemelgarn Racing closed in April. Lazier attempted to find a car to drive for at the Indianapolis 500, but ultimately was unable to do so. As a result, Lazier did not contest any part of the Indianapolis 500 for the first time since 1988. In 2011, Lazier was reported to be in line for a drive at the Indianapolis 500 for Dragon Racing. Dragon Racing opted to run Ho-Pin Tung and Scott Speed, with Speed later being replaced by Patrick Carpentier. For the second year in a row, Lazier did not attempt to qualify for the Indianapolis 500.\n\nLazier returned to the IndyCar Series after a three-year absence in 2013 when on May 8, Lazier's father, Bob Lazier, formed a team called Lazier Partners Racing with Corbet Krause, Chris Nielsen and Jason Peters. The team purchased a Dallara DW12 chassis from Fan Force United for $250,000. The chassis needed to be modified to have a Chevrolet engine placed into it. Lazier originally drove the car with no sponsorship and the paint scheme remained the same as when Fan Force United fielded the car, albeit with orange replacing the original gold stripes. Lazier first practiced on May 16, completing only installation laps. Lazier took his refresher test the next day and was quickly practicing at speeds greater than . On Pole Day, the team gained sponsorship from Advance Auto Parts and Lazier posted a qualifying speed of , failing to make the race on Pole Day. On Bump Day, Lazier qualified for the race in 32nd place with a speed of . Lazier officially drove the car as the No. 91 entry, with Spirit of Oklahoma added to the car after the tornados in Moore, Oklahoma on May 20 as a sign of respect for the victims. Lazier retired from the race after completing 44 laps due to mechanical problems. Lazier only competed at Indianapolis and was ranked in 38th place in the final championship standings with 8 points.\n\nFor 2014, Lazier returned with Lazier Partners Racing to drive the No. 91 Dallara-Chevrolet at the Indianapolis 500. Lazier did not practice until May 15. On the first day of qualifying, Lazier posted a speed of and had the 33rd-fastest speed. On Pole Day, Lazier qualified for the race with a speed of and started in 33rd place. On the first lap of the race, Lazier narrowly avoided Ryan Briscoe, who had nearly spun coming off turn 2. Lazier completed 87 laps before retiring due to clutch problems, and was scored in 32nd place. By starting the race, Lazier joined Tom Sneva and Roger McCluskey in a tie for 10th place for the most Indianapolis 500 starts with 18. Lazier also moved into 7th place for the most laps completed, with 2,797. Lazier only competed at Indianapolis and ultimately finished in 35th place in the final standings with 11 points.\n\nIn 2015, Lazier returned with Lazier Partners Racing to drive the No. 91 Dallara-Chevrolet at the Indianapolis 500. Lazier used using Chevrolet's new aero kit on the car. Lazier first practiced on May 14, completing 28 laps prior to Pole Day. The car then suffered gearbox issues prior to qualifying and Lazier was unable to make an attempt to qualify in the original line, but was repaired in time for the Last Row Shootout. The speed of Lazier's first qualifying attempt was , compared to Bryan Clauson's next-slowest speed of . Lazier's pit crew made wing adjustments to reduce the car's downforce. Lazier improved to a speed of , but ultimately ran out of time and failed to qualify.\n\nIn 2001, Lazier competed in the Grand-Am Rolex Sports Car Series. Lazier drove the No. 74 Riley & Scott Mk III-Judd with Jack Baldwin, George Robinson and Irv Hoerr for Robinson Racing in the Sport Racing Prototype (SR) class. Lazier only competed with the team at the season-opening Rolex 24 at Daytona. The car started in 2nd place overall and led 10 laps during the race. The car then suffered an engine failure after completing 563 laps; the car was classified in 5th place in its class and 22nd place overall. Lazier finished in 35th place in the final championship standings with 29 points.\n\nIn 2001, Lazier competed in the International Race of Champions as a representative of the Indy Racing Northern Light Series, with Eddie Cheever, Mark Dismore and Scott Goodyear – latterly replaced by Al Unser Jr. for the final two races of the season due to injuries received at the Indianapolis 500 – also representing the series. Lazier, as with the other drivers, drove a Pontiac Firebird Trans Am. At the season-opening race at Daytona International Speedway, Lazier started in 8th place and finished in 11th place due to a crash on lap 27 with Jeff Burton. At the following race at Talladega Superspeedway, Lazier started and finished in 3rd place. At the third race of the season at Michigan International Speedway, Lazier started in 7th place and finished in 6th place. At the final race of the season at the Indianapolis Motor Speedway, Lazier started in 4th place and finished in 11th place due to another crash with Burton, who had led every lap in the race up to that point. Lazier finished in 9th place in the final championship standings with 31 points, earning $40,000 for his efforts.\n\nLazier returned to the series in 2002, with Sam Hornish Jr., Scott Sharp and Unser Jr. joining him from the IRL. At the season-opening race at Daytona, Lazier started in 7th place and finished in 10th place. At the second race of the season, at California Speedway, Lazier started in 3rd place and finished in 9th place. At the following race at Chicagoland Speedway, Lazier qualified on pole position, and led flag-to-flag. At the final race of the season at Indianapolis, Lazier started in 8th place and finished in 4th place. As a result, Lazier finished in 2nd place in the final standings with 49 points, 5 points behind champion Kevin Harvick.\n\nLater in his career, Lazier participated in NASCAR for a brief time. In 2005, Lazier tested a Chevrolet Silverado for Billy Ballew Motorsports at Lowe's Motor Speedway. In 2007, Lazier returned to drive for Billy Ballew Motorsports in the No. 15 Chevrolet Silverado at the Smith's Las Vegas 350 at Las Vegas Motor Speedway. Lazier said of the opportunity, \"The opportunity arose for us to race in Las Vegas and I am extremely excited. They are racers on that team and to me it's a perfect fit, and I feel right at home with the whole team.\" Lazier started in 21st place and finished in 24th place, three laps down.\n\nAfter winning the Indianapolis 500, Lazier made a guest appearance on \"Late Night with Conan O'Brien\". The episode that Lazier appeared on aired on May 29, 1996.\n\nLazier was nominated for the Best Driver ESPY Award in 2001 against Bobby Labonte, John Force and Gil de Ferran.\n\nLazier was born in and currently resides in Vail, Colorado. Lazier is married to Kara, and the couple have two children: a son, Flinn, and a daughter, Jacqueline.\n\nLazier's father Bob Lazier was a former racing driver who won the CART Rookie of the Year Award in 1981. Lazier's brother Jaques Lazier competed in the Indy Racing League from 1998 to 2010, winning the 2001 Delphi Indy 200 at Chicagoland Speedway. With both drivers having won races, they are the only brothers to have both won races in the series.\n\nLazier and his relatives operate the Tivoli Lodge in Vail, Colorado, which his father opened in 1968.\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki> Season still in progress.\n\n"}
{"id": "1996812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996812", "title": "1933 Long Beach earthquake", "text": "1933 Long Beach earthquake\n\nThe 1933 Long Beach earthquake took place on March 10 at south of downtown Los Angeles. The epicenter was offshore, southeast of Long Beach, California, on the Newport–Inglewood Fault. The earthquake had a magnitude estimated at 6.4 , and a maximum Mercalli intensity of VIII (\"Severe\"). Damage to buildings was widespread throughout Southern California. 115 to 120 fatalities and an estimated forty million dollars' worth of property damage resulted. The majority of the fatalities resulted from people running out of buildings exposing themselves to the falling debris.\n\nThe major damage occurred in the densely-populated city of Long Beach on the south-facing coast of Los Angeles County. However, the damage was also found to have extended to the industrial area south of downtown Los Angeles. The magnitude of the earthquake is considered to be medium but a significant amount of damage was left due to unfavorable geological conditions (landfill, water-soaked alluvium) combined with poorly constructed buildings. In Long Beach, buildings collapsed, water tanks fell through roofs, and houses were tossed off their foundations. School buildings were among the structures that incurred the most severe damage. It was recognized that unreinforced masonry bearing walls is the reason for school buildings suffering so much damage in the wake of the earthquake.\n\nThe earthquake highlighted the need for earthquake-resistant design for structures in California. Many school buildings were damaged, with more than 230 school buildings that either were destroyed, suffered major damage, or were judged unsafe to occupy. The California State Legislature passed the Field Act on April 10, 1933, mandating that school buildings must be earthquake-resistant. If the earthquake had occurred during school hours, the death toll would have been much higher.\n\nThis earthquake prompted the government to play an active role in disaster relief. The government created The Reconstruction Finance Corporation, providing loans for the reconstruction of buildings that were affected during the natural disaster. The Bureau of Public Roads also took action to rebuild roads, highways, and bridges. The economy of Long Beach was able to return to normal swiftly because of the rise of the aircraft industry. To support the World War II efforts, Long Beach created naval yards and increased the number of aircraft produced. This directly helped Long Beach repair and stabilize the economy after the disaster.\n\nThe 1933 film \"Headline Shooter\", uses newsreel footage of the Long Beach earthquake.\n\nThe earthquake plays a major part in the novel \"The Last Tycoon\" (1941), by F. Scott Fitzgerald. During the disruption caused by the quake, the hero, Monroe Stahr, meets Kathleen Moore, with whom he falls in love.\n\nThe earthquake is also included in John Fante's \"Ask the Dust\" (1939).\n\nA radio newscast announces the aftermath of the earthquake in Season One, Episode Five of \"The Waltons\".\n\nThis earthquake was mentioned by one of the guest characters, played by actor Ian Wolfe in Season Three, Episode One of \"Police Woman\", who also mentions the 1971 San Fernando earthquake as the \"Big One of '71\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1996813", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996813", "title": "Edward Mortimer Archibald", "text": "Edward Mortimer Archibald\n\nSir Edward Mortimer Archibald, (10 May 1810 – 8 February 1884) was a British diplomat, a lawyer and an office holder active during the transition to responsible government in the colony of Newfoundland.\n\nArchibald was born in Truro, Nova Scotia, the son of Samuel George William Archibald and Elizabeth Dickson. His father was a lawyer and attorney general for Nova Scotia. Archibald studied law in his father's office and was admitted to the bar of Nova Scotia in early 1831. The following October, Archibald was appointed chief clerk and registrar of the Supreme Court of Newfoundland, replacing his brother in that position. By 1833 Archibald was an acting assistant judge of the Newfoundland Supreme Court. At the same time, he took on the additional job of chief clerk of the Newfoundland General Assembly.\n\nBeginning in 1857, Archibald served as British consul to New York, a position he held for twenty-six years until his retirement on 1 January 1883. From 1871 he also undertook the additional responsibility of acting as British consul-general for New York, New Jersey, Delaware, Rhode Island, and Connecticut.\n\nArchibald married Catherine Elizabeth Richardson, on 10 September 1834 at Truro, Nova Scotia. Catherine bore him six children, but only one son, Edward. The last child was a daughter, Edith Archibald, who became a suffragist and writer. Archibald died from pneumonia in Steyning, Sussex and is buried in the Brighton Extra Mural Cemetery.\n\n"}
{"id": "1996818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996818", "title": "James Agnew (British Army officer)", "text": "James Agnew (British Army officer)\n\nBrigadier-General James Tanner Agnew, of Howlish Hall, Co Durham (1719 – October 4, 1777) was a British Army officer killed by a sniper in the Battle of Germantown during the American Revolutionary War.\n\nJames Tanner Agnew was born in 1719 in England to Major James Agnew, 7th Dragoons (fourth son of Sir James Agnew of Lochnaw 4th Baronet), and Margaret Wilkinson. On September 27, 1747, he married Elizabeth Sanderson in County Durham, England. His son, Robert, was born .\n\nAgnew came to Boston in the latter part of 1775, holding the rank of lieutenant-colonel. By 1777, he had been appointed a local brigadier general and commanded a brigade.\n\nGeneral Agnew was engaged at the Battle of Long Island in 1776. In 1777, Agnew accompanied British forces under the command of General William Tryon and General William Erskine on an inland raid against Patriot supply depots in Danbury, Connecticut. After successfully destroying Patriot supplies, the British forces engaged and defeated Continental Army Generals David Wooster, Benedict Arnold, and Gold S. Silliman and Patriot militiamen in the Battle of Ridgefield. Lastly, Agnew was at the Battle of the Brandywine, where he was wounded.\n\nWhile leading his 4th brigade in support of Lord Cornwallis at the Battle of Germantown, General Agnew was killed by a civilian sharpshooter named Hans Boyer. His soldiers brought him back to their headquarters in John Wister's Big House (now called Grumblethorpe) on Germantown Avenue, where his blood is rumored to still stain the parlor floor.\n\nHe is buried at De Benneville Family Burial Grounds, on the 6000 block of North Broad Street, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania\n\n"}
{"id": "1996819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996819", "title": "Félix Vicq-d'Azyr", "text": "Félix Vicq-d'Azyr\n\nFélix Vicq d'Azyr (; 23 April 1748 – 20 June 1794) was a French physician and anatomist, the originator of comparative anatomy and discoverer of the theory of homology in biology.\n\nVicq d'Azyr was born in Valognes, Normandy, the son of a physician. He graduated in medicine at the University of Paris and became a renowned and brilliant animal and human anatomist and physician.\n\nFrom 1773 Vicq d'Azyr taught a celebrated course of anatomy at the Jardin du Roi, currently the Museum of Natural History, in Paris. In 1774 he was elected a member of the Académie des Sciences with the support of his friend Condorcet, the Perpetual Secretary. In this latter capacity, he was in charge of writing the eulogies of his colleagues. This he accomplished with great talent, thus winning a lifetime membership to the Académie française in 1788. On the outbreak of an epidemic in Guyenne he was charged with writing a report, of making propositions and with their execution. Pursuing an early perception of the responsibility of the State on health affairs, Anne-Robert-Jacques Turgot proposed the creation of the Société Royale de Médecine. In 1775, Vicq d'Azyr was made Perpetual Secretary. Under his leadership, the Société compiled over 16 years a great mass of facts and information about diseases, physicians, economics and food resources.\n\nHe was the last physician of Queen Marie-Antoinette, whom he tried to protect.\nAdditionally he was a professor of veterinary medicine at the School of Alfort, as well as Superintendent of epidemics.\n\nAs an anatomist he was one of the first to use coronal sections of the brain and to use alcohol to aid dissection. He described the locus coeruleus, the locus niger (substantia nigra) in the brain, in 1786, and the band of Vicq d'Azyr, a fiber system between the external granular layer and the external pyramidal layer of the cerebral cortex, as well as the Mamillo-thalamic tract, which bears his name. His systematic studies of the cerebral convolutions became a classic and Vicq d'Azyr was one of the first neuroanatomists to name the gyri. He studied the deep gray nuclei of the cerebrum and the basal ganglia. He participated in the Second Encyclopedia. During the French Revolution he was elected to the Commission temporaire des arts, where he was charged with determining the future of anatomical education in France.\n\nVicq d'Azyr died of tuberculosis on 20 June 1794 during The Terror. He had that day attended Robespierre's Festival of the Supreme Being. His dramatic biography describes him as spending his last remaining years shaken by nightmares and terrified of the guillotine. \n\nA collection of some of his papers is held at the National Library of Medicine in Bethesda, Maryland.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1996830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996830", "title": "Acetic acid (data page)", "text": "Acetic acid (data page)\n\nThis page provides supplementary chemical data on acetic acid.\n\nThe handling of this chemical may incur notable safety precautions. It is highly recommend that you seek the Material Safety Datasheet (MSDS) for this chemical from a reliable source and follow its directions. \n\nTable data obtained from \"CRC Handbook of Chemistry and Physics\" 44th ed.\n\n\nExcept where noted otherwise, data relate to standard ambient temperature and pressure.\n"}
{"id": "1996831", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996831", "title": "Alfred Walton", "text": "Alfred Walton\n\nAlfred Armstrong Walton (1816–7 May 1883) was one of the lesser-known British Radical politicians of working-class origin in the mid-Victorian era. He was a prolific author of newspaper contributions on most political and social questions of his time, with a particular interest in land and parliamentary reform.\n\nWalton worked as a stonemason and builder, and joined the Operative Masons' Society. He became a supporter of Robert Owen, and was active in the Chartist movement in the late 1840s. He joined the National Association of United Trades, and when he started to advocate a scheme for home colonisation (1848–49).\n\nHe expanded on the latter interest in his most important work, the \"History of the Landed Tenures of Great Britain and Ireland from the Norman Conquest to the present time\" which was published in 1865. With this book, which was quoted by Karl Marx in vol. III of 'Capital', he emerged as one of the most vocal spokesmen for the issue of land nationalisation.\n\nIn the 1860s, he also became a protagonist of the reform campaign. He did so from Brecon in South Wales where he had moved at the beginning of the decade. His radical ideas made him join several important democratic societies, such as the International Working Men's Association (IWMA, First International), the Reform League and several cooperative building schemes. He also tried several times to be elected a member of Parliament, first for Brecon, then for Stoke-on-Trent in the Potteries. However, due to local political circumstances, he failed in each attempt.\n\nIn the 1870s he moved to London, where he spent his last years less involved in radical campaigns but still writing pamphlets and contributions to newspapers.\n\nJ. M. Bellamy and John Saville (eds.): Dictionary of Labour Biography, vol. 10, London: Macmillan 2000, 213–218.\n\nD. Mares: 'Industry, perseverance, self-reliance, and integrity'. Alfred A. Walton and mid-Victorian working-class radicalism, Darmstadt 2018.\n"}
{"id": "1996832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996832", "title": "Maserati Shamal", "text": "Maserati Shamal\n\nThe Maserati Shamal (\"Tipo AM339\") is a two-door grand touring coupé produced by Italian automobile manufacturer Maserati from 1990 to 1996. In keeping with an established Maserati tradition, it is named after a wind: shamal (Arabic for ‘north’), a hot summer wind that blows in large areas of Mesopotamia, particularly in the large plain between the Tigris and Euphrates.\n\nWith its newly developed twin-turbocharged V8 the Shamal was Maserati's flagship grand tourer, topping the lineup of V6-engined Biturbo coupés in both performance and price (at 125 million Lire).\n\nThe Shamal was introduced on 14 December 1989 in Modena, when Maserati president and owner Alejandro de Tomaso showed it to the press. It was the last model announced under the De Tomaso ownership: in January 1990, half of debt-plagued Maserati was acquired by Fiat S.p.A.. Sales began in 1990. The final year of production for the Maserati Shamal was 1996; factory figures indicate that 369 examples were produced.\n\nThe Shamal was designed in collaboration by Marcello Gandini and Maserati's own Styling department. A debt ridden Maserati was not able to develop an entirely new car, and accordingly the Shamal shows its Biturbo heritage in the doors, interior, and basic bodyshell, which were carried over from the Biturbo. It sits on the shorter 2.4-meter wheelbase, as also used by the Biturbo Spyder and Karif. Gandini's styling signature is visible in the slanted profile of the rear wheel arch, also present on the Quattroporte IV and first seen on the Lamborghini Countach. An unusual design element introduced by Gandini on the Shamal was the additional spoiler in front of the windshield, also seen on his redesign of the DeTomaso Pantera and later across the remainder of Maserati's Biturbo-based lineup. It was intended to direct the flow of air (as well as water) across the windscreen and to push the wipers down at high speeds. The feature was never adapted by other automakers.\n\nThe center pillar is also an actual roll bar, not simply a styling element. Finished in black, it wraps around the cabin. \"Shamal\" badging appears on either side of the central pillar in chrome lettering. The car came with 16-inch alloy wheels, a small rear spoiler and a blacked-out grille with chrome accents, the only chrome element on the car aside from the badging.\n\nAnother defining feature of the Shamal are its numerous headlamps in individual housings: outer round Carello low beams of the then-new projector type, inner rectangular high beams, combined turn signals and position lamps in the bumper, and two pairs of square lights in the lower grille—fog lamps and driving lamps. This headlight design was then introduced across the rest of the updated Biturbo range in 1991.\n\nThe two-seat interior of the Shamal features extended leather seat cushions, temperature control and the famous Maserati oval clock, which is situated in the centre of the dashboard. It continued Maserati's tradition of building cars with cheerful, well-appointed interiors, with leather or wood coverings for almost anything one would touch, such as the center console, handbrake handle, or the gear lever which is finished in burled elm. While built for comfort as well as performance, the Shamal was not as luxuriously appointed as the contemporary Ghibli. The Shamal was initially only available in red or black exterior colours; other colours became available later in the production run.\n\nThe Shamal used a traditional front-engine, rear-wheel-drive layout and an all-steel unibody construction. Suspension was by MacPherson struts upfront and semi-trailing arms at the rear. All cars were equipped with an adaptive suspension developed by Maserati together with Koni. The system varied the damping rates, based on road conditions and the level of comfort desired. Mechanically, the Shamal was unusual in that its engine could be removed without a lift. It is mounted on a subframe (which also holds the intercoolers and the radiator) which can be slipped out the front once the front bumper has been removed.\n\nThe Shamal was powered by an \"AM 479\" (bore and stroke ) V8 engine, with two overhead camshafts per cylinder bank, and four valves per cylinder. It was essentially the existing Biturbo V6 with an extra bank of cylinders added. It was twin-turbocharged with two IHI turbines and intercoolers, and equipped with a Marelli IAW integrated electronic ignition and fuel injection ECU per cylinder bank. The engine put out at 6,000 rpm and at 3,000 rpm. Power was sent to the rear wheels through a six-speed Getrag G560 manual transmission and Maserati's \"Ranger\" limited-slip differential. The transmission was the same as BMW installed in their 850CSi of the same era.\n\nThe manufacturer claimed a top speed of and a acceleration time of 5.3 seconds.\n\n"}
{"id": "1996833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996833", "title": "Influence of mass media", "text": "Influence of mass media\n\nIn media studies, media psychology, communication theory, and sociology, media influence and media effects are topics relating to mass media and media culture's effects on individual or an audience's thoughts, attitudes, and behavior. Whether it is written, televised, or spoken, mass media reaches a large audience. Mass media is known as being one of the most significant forces in modern culture.\n\nThe influence of \"mass media\" has an effect on many aspects of human life, which can include voting a certain way, individual views and beliefs, or skewing a person's knowledge of a specific topic due to being provided false information. Media is an ever-changing field and is being critiqued now more than ever by the general public. The overall influence of mass media has increased drastically over the years, and will continue to do so as the media itself improves. Media influence is the actual force exerted by a media message, resulting in either a change or reinforcement in audience or individual beliefs. Media effects are measurable effects that result from media influence or a media message. Whether a media message has an effect on any of its audience members is contingent on many factors, including audience demographics and psychological characteristics. These effects can be positive or negative, abrupt or gradual, short-term or long-lasting. Not all effects result in change; some media messages reinforce an existing belief. Researchers examine an audience after media exposure for changes in cognition, belief systems, and attitudes, as well as emotional, physiological and behavioral effects.\n\nThere are several scholarly definitions of media. Bryant and Zillmann defined media effects as \"the social, cultural, and psychological impact of communicating via the mass media\". Perse stated that media effects researchers study \"how to control, enhance, or mitigate the impact of the mass media on individuals and society\". Lang stated media effects researchers study \"what types of content, in what type of medium, affect which people, in what situations\". McLuhan points out in his the media ecology theory that “The medium is the message.” \n\nMedia effects studies have undergone several phases, often corresponding to the development of mass media technologies.\n\nDuring the early 20th century, developing mass media technologies, such as radio and film, were credited with an almost irresistible power to mold an audience's beliefs, cognition, and behaviors according to the communicators' will. The basic assumption of strong media effects theory was that audiences were passive and homogeneous. This assumption was not based on empirical evidence but instead on assumptions of human nature. There were two main explanations for this perception of mass media effects. First, mass broadcasting technologies were acquiring a widespread audience, even among average households. People were astonished by the speed of information dissemination, which may have clouded audience perception of any media effects. Secondly, propaganda techniques were implemented during war time by several governments as a powerful tool for uniting their people. This propaganda exemplified strong-effect communication. Early media effects research often focused on the power of this propaganda (e.g., Lasswell, 1927). Combing through the technological and social environment, early media effects theories stated that the mass media were all-powerful.\n\nRepresentative theories:\n\nStarting in the 1930s, the second phase of media effects studies instituted the importance of empirical research while introducing the complex nature of media effects due to the idiosyncratic nature of individuals in an audience. The Payne Fund studies, conducted in the United States during this period, focused on the effect of media on young people. Many other separate studies focused on persuasion effects studies, or the possibilities and usage of planned persuasion in film and other media. Hovland et al. (1949) conducted a series of experimental studies to evaluate the effects of using films to indoctrinate American military recruits. Paul Lazarsfeld (1944) and his colleagues' effectiveness studies of democratic election campaigns launched political campaign effect studies.\n\nResearchers uncovered mounting empirical evidence of the idiosyncratic nature of media effects on individuals and audiences, identifying numerous intervening variables such as demographic attributes, social psychological factors, and different media use behaviors. With these new variables added to research, it was difficult to isolate media influence that resulted in any media effects to an audience's cognition, attitude, and behavior. As Berelson (1959) summed up in a widely quoted conclusion: \"Some kinds of communication on some kinds of issues have brought to the attention of some kinds of people under some kinds of conditions have some kinds of effect.\" Though the concept of an all-powerful mass media was diluted, this did not determine that the media lacked influence or effect. Instead, the pre-existing structure of social relationships and cultural contexts were believed to primarily shape or change people's opinions, attitudes, and behaviors, and media merely function within these established processes. This complexity had a dampening effect upon media effects studies.\n\nRepresentative theories:\n\nNoam Chomsky has named five filters through which mass media operate: \n\n\nLimited media effect theory was challenged by new evidence supporting the fact that mass media messages could indeed lead to measurable social effects. Lang and Lang (1981) argued that the widespread acceptance of limited media effect theory was unwarranted and that \"the evidence available by the end of the 1950s, even when balanced against some of the negative findings, gives no justification for an overall verdict of 'media importance.'\"\n\nIn the 1950s and 1960s, widespread use of television indicated its unprecedented power on social lives. Meanwhile, researchers also realized that early investigations, relying heavily on psychological models, were narrowly focused on only short-term and immediate effects. The \"stimuli-reaction\" model introduced the possibility of profound long-term media effects. A shift from short-term to long-term effect studies marked the renewal of media effects research. More attention was paid to collective cultural patterns, definitions of social reality, ideology, and institutional behavior. Though audiences were still considered in control of the selection of media messages they consumed, \"the way media select, process and shape content for their own purposes can have a strong influence on how it is received and interpreted and thus on longer-term consequences\" (Mcquail, 2010).\n\nRepresentative theories:\n\nIn the late 1970s, researchers examined the media's role in shaping social realities, also referred to as \"social constructivism\" (Gamson and Modigliani, 1989). This approach evaluated the media's role in constructing meaning and corresponding social realities. First, the media formats images of society in a patterned and predictable way, both in news and entertainment. Second, audiences construct or derive their perception of actual social reality—and their role in it—by interacting with the media-constructed realities. Individuals in these audiences can control their interaction and interpretation of these media-constructed realities. However, when media messages are the only information source, the audience may implicitly accept the media-constructed reality. Alternatively, they may choose to derive their social reality from other sources, such as first-hand experience or cultural environment.\n\nThis phase also added qualitative and ethnographic research methods to existing quantitative and behaviorist research methods. Additionally, several research projects focused on media effects surrounding media coverage of minority and fringe social movements.\n\nRepresentative research:\n\nAs early as the 1970s, research emerged on the effects of individual or group behavior in computer-mediated environments. The focus was on the effect of computer-mediated communication (CMC) in interpersonal and group interaction. Early research examined the social interactions and impressions that CMC partners formed of each other, given the restrictive characteristics of CMC such as the anonymity and lack of nonverbal (auditory or visual) cues. The first generation of CMC researches simply compared existing \"text-only\" internet content (e.g. emails) to face-to-face communication (Culnan & Markus,1987). For example, Daft and Lengel (1986) developed the media richness theory to assess the media's ability of reproducing information.\n\nThe internet was widely adopted for personal use in the 1990s, further expanding CMC studies. Theories such as social information processing (Walther, 1992) and social identification/deindividuation (SIDE) model (Postmes et al. 2000) studied CMC effects on users' behavior, comparing these effects to face-to-face communication effects. With the emergence of dynamic user-generated content on websites and social media platforms, research results are even more conducive to CMC studies. For instance, Valkenburg & Peter (2009) developed the internet-enhanced self-disclosure hypothesis among adolescents, stating that social media platforms are primarily used to maintain real-life friendships among young people. Therefore, this media use may enhance those friendships. New CMC technologies are evolving at a rapid pace, calling for new media effects theories.\n\nThe broad scope of media effects studies creates an organizational challenge. Organizing media effects by their targeted audience type, either on an individual (micro) or an audience aggregate (macro) level, is one effective method. Denis McQuail, a prominent communication theorist, organized effects into a graph.\n\nTheories that base their observations and conclusions on individual media users rather than on groups, institutions, systems, or society at large are referred to as micro-level theories.\n\nRepresentative theories:\n\nOn a micro-level, individuals can be affected in six different ways.\n\nTheories that base their observations and conclusions on large social groups, institutions, systems, or ideologies are referred to as macro-level theories.\nRepresentative theories:\n\nCreated by Denis McQuail, a prominent communication theorist who is considered to be one of the most influential scholars in the field of mass communication studies. McQuail organized effects into a graph according to the media effect's intentionality (planned or unplanned) and time duration (short-term or long-term). See Figure 1.\n\nThe following are salient examples of media effects studies which examine media influence on individuals.\n\nIndividuals often mistakenly believe that they are less susceptible to media effects than others. About fifty percent of the members in a given sample are susceptible to the third-person effect, underestimating their degree of influence. This is largely based on attribution theory, in which \"the person tends to attribute his own reactions to the object world, and those of another, when they differ from his own, to personal characteristics.\" Standley (1994) tested the third-person effect and attribution theory, reporting people are more likely offer situational reasons for television's effect upon themselves, while offering dispositional reasons for other members of an audience.\n\nThis is a concept derived from a network model of memory used in cognitive psychology. In this model, information is stored as nodes clustered with related nodes by associated pathways. If one node is activated, nearby nodes are also activated. This is known as spreading activation. Priming occurs when a node is activated, causing related nodes to stand by for possible activation. Both the intensity and amount of elapsed time from the moment of activation determine the strength and duration of the priming effect.\n\nIn media effects studies, priming is how exposure to media can alter an individual's attitudes, behaviors, or beliefs. Most media violence research, a popular area of discussion in media effects studies, theorizes that exposure to violent acts may prime an individual to behave more aggressively while the activation lingers.\n\nMiller and Dollard (1941) pioneered social learning theory with their finding that individuals do not need to personally act out a behavior to learn it; they can learn from observation. Bandura (1977) expanded upon this concept, stating that audiences can learn behaviors from observing fictitious characters.\n\nThe effects of media violence upon individuals have many decades of research, starting as early as the 1920s. Children and adolescents, considered vulnerable media consumers, are often the target of these studies. Most studies of media violence surround the media categories of television and video games.\n\nThe rise of the motion picture industry, coupled with advances in social sciences, spurred the famous Payne Fund studies and others. Though the quality of the research has been called into question, one of the findings suggested a direct role between movies depicting delinquent adolescents and delinquent behaviors in adolescents. Wertham (1954) later suggested that comic books influenced children into delinquent behaviors, provided false worldviews, and lowered literacy in his book \"Seduction of the Innocent\". This research was too informal to reach a clear verdict, and a recent study suggests information was misrepresented and even falsified, yet it led to public outcry resulting in many discontinued comic magazines.\n\nTelevision's ubiquity in the 1950s generated more concerns. Since then, studies have hypothesized a number of effects.\n\n\"Behavioral effects\" include disinhibition, imitation and desensitization.\n\"Cognitive effects\" include an increased belief of potential violence in the real world from watching violent media content leading to anxiety about personal safety.\n\nThe following are salient examples of media effects studies which examine media influence on an audience aggregate.\n\nNot all media effects are instantaneous or short-term. Gerbner (1969) created cultivation theory, arguing that the media cultivates a \"collective consciousness about elements of existence.\" If audiences are exposed to repetitive themes and storylines, over time, they may expect these themes and storylines to be mirrored in real life.\n\nThere are two primary areas of media agenda-setting: (i) the media tells us the news and (ii) the media tells us what to think about the news. Press coverage sends signals to audiences about the importance of mentioned issues, while framing the news induces the unsuspecting viewer into a particular response. Additionally, news that is not given press coverage often dissipates, not only because it lacks a vehicle of mass communication, but also because individuals may not express their concerns for fear of being ostracized. This further creates the spiral of silence effect.\n\nNews outlets can influence public opinion by controlling variables in news presentation. News gatherers curate facts to underscore a certain angle. Presentation method—such as time of broadcast, extent of coverage and choice of news medium—can also frame the message; this can create, replace, or reinforce a certain viewpoint in an audience. Entman (2007) describes framing as \"the process of culling a few elements of perceived reality and assembling a narrative that highlights connections among them to promote a particular interpretation.\" Not only does the media identify supposed \"causes of problems,\" it can also \"encourage moral judgments\" and \"promote favored policies.\"\n\nOne long-term implication of framing, if the media reports news with a consistent favorable slant, is that it can lend a helping hand to certain overarching institutions of thought and related entities. It can reinforce capitalism, patriarchy, heterosexism, individualism, consumerism, and white privilege. Some theorize this bias may reinforce the political parties that espouse these thought paradigms, although more empirical research is needed to substantiate these claims.\n\nMedia outlets contend that gatekeeping, or news filtering that may result in agenda-setting and specific framing, is inevitable. With a never-ending, near-limitless amount of information, filtering will occur by default. Subcultures within news organizations determine the type of published content, while editors and other news organization individuals filter messages to curate content for their target audience.\n\nThe rise of digital media, from blogs to social media, has significantly altered the media's gatekeeping role. In addition to more gates, there are also more gatekeepers. Google and Facebook both cater content to their users, filtering though thousands of search results and media postings to generate content aligned with a user's preferences. In 2015, 63 percent of Facebook and Twitter users found news on their feeds, up from 57 percent the previous year. With some many \"gates\" or outlets, news spreads without the aid of legacy media networks. In fact, users on social media can act as a check to the media, calling attention to bias or inaccurate facts.There is also a symbiotic relationship between social media users and the press: younger journalists use social media to track trending topics.\n\nLegacy media outlets, along with newer online-only outlets, face enormous challenges. The multiplicity of outlets combined with downsizing in the aftermath of the 2008 recession makes reportage more hectic than ever. One study found that journalists write about 4.5 articles per day. Public relations agencies have begun to play a growing role in news creation. \"41 percent of press articles and 52 percent of broadcast news items contain PR materials which play an agenda-setting role or where PR material makes up the bulk of the story.\" Stories are often rushed to publication and edited afterwards, without \"having passed through the full journalistic process.\" Still, audiences seek out quality content—whichever outlet can fulfill this need may acquire the limited attention span of the modern viewer.\n\nIndividuals are disinclined to share or amplify certain messages because of a fear of social isolation and a willingness to self-censor. As applies to media effects studies, some individuals may silence their opinions if the media does not validate their importance or their viewpoint. This spiral of silence can also apply to individuals in the media who may refrain from publishing controversial media content.\n\nAfter entering the 21st century, the rapid development of the Internet and Web 2.0 technology is greatly reforming media use patterns. Media effects studies also are more diverse and specified. After conducting a meta-analysis on micro-level media effects theories, Valkenburg, Peter & Walther (2016) identified five main features:\n\nThere are two propositions of this selectivity paradigm: (1) among the constellation of messages potentially attracting their attention, people only go to a limited portion of messages; (2) people are only influenced by those messages they select (Klapper 1960, Rubin 2009). Researchers had noticed the selectivity of media use decades ago and considered it as a key factor limiting media effects. Later, two theoretical perspectives, uses-and-gratifications (Katz et al. 1973, Rubin 2009) and selective exposure theory (Knobloch-Westerwick 2015, Zillmann & Bryant 1985), were developed based on this assumption and aimed to pinpoint the psychological and social factors guiding and filtering an audience's media selection. Generally, these theories put the media user in the center of the media effect process, and conceptualize media use as a mediator between antecedents and consequences of media effects. In other words, users (with intention or not) develop their own media use effects.\n\nThe inherent properties of media themselves are considered as predictors in media effects.\n\nAfter the all-powerful assumption of mass media was disproved by empirical evidence, the indirect path of the media's effect on audiences has been widely accepted. An indirect effect indicates that an independent variable (e.g., media use) affecting the dependent variables (e.g., outcomes of media use) via one or more intervening (mediating) variables. The conceptualization of indirect media effects urges attention to be paid to those intervening variables to better explain how and why media effects occur. Additionally, examining indirect effects can lead to a less biased estimation of effects sizes in empirical research (Holbert & Stephenson 2003). In a model including mediating and moderating variables, it is the combination of direct and indirect effects that makes up the total effect of an independent variable on a dependent variable. Thus, \"if an indirect effect does not receive proper attention, the relationship between two variables of concern may not be fully considered\" (Raykov & Marcoulides 2012)\n\nIn correspondence with the statement that media effect is the result of a combination of variables, media effects can also be enhanced or reduced by individual differences and social context diversity. Many media effects theories hypothesize conditional media effects, including uses-and-gratifications theory (Rubin 2009), reinforcing spiral model (Slater 2007), the conditional model of political communication effects (McLeod et al. 2009), the elaboration likelihood model (Petty & Cacioppo 1986). Take the elaboration likelihood model as an example: the variable of \"need for cognition\", indicating users' tendency to enjoy effortful information processing, is considered as a moderator of media effects on attitudes.\n\nMany theories assume reciprocal causal relationships between different variables, including characteristics of media users, factors in the environment, and outcomes of media (Bandura 2009). Transactional theories further support the selectivity paradigm (Feature 1), which assumes that the audience shapes their own media effects by selectively engaging in media use; transactional theories make an effort to explain how and why this occurs. Transactional media effects theories are the most complex among the five features. There are three basic assumptions. First, communication technologies (e.g., radio, television, internet) function as reciprocal mediators between information producers and receivers, who engage in transactions through these technologies (Bauer 1964). Second, the effect of media content is reciprocal between producers and receivers of media content, meaning they influence each other. Producers can be influenced by receivers because they learn from what the audience needs and prefers (Webster 2009). Third, transactions can be distinguished as interpersonal.\n\nHowever, these features are only limited within micro-level media effects studies, which are mostly focused on short-term, immediate, individual effects.\n\nThe images that media create carry the weight of social responsibility and the right side of social value. Audiences learn their political points of view from reading, listening to political analysis, and evaluation. The mass media is a powerful guardian of proper political behavior because audiences tend to trust the press, who they believe should inform them about government wrongdoing and provide proper suggestions. All mass media is politically important because of its potential to reach large audiences. However, the influence of each media source varies depending on its characteristics, ease of access, and the size of the audience reached. Print media, including newspapers, articles, and news from internet sources, usually reach readers who are literate at appropriate levels and understand the political environment. Electronic media, especially television broadcasts, may appear more realistic and lend more credibility to a message than other forms of media, in turn influencing the audience more. Moreover, large segments of the U.S. population have limited reading skills and better understand the physical images, conversations, and interviews between people conveyed in electronic media. They are especially well suited to attract viewers’ attention and arouse their emotions.\n\nIn the era of the Internet, the relationship between organizations and public opinion has been influenced by new media. New media include online newspapers, blogs, and social media. More people prefer new media over traditional media because of the limitations of traditional media, such as time limitation and space limitation. For people with a cell phone or computer, news can be obtained at any time in any location. As a result, new media has a greater impact on people. Politicians have also noticed new media is a more effective way to convey their message, and have begun to use it to attract supporters. For example, both Barack Obama and the White House have a Facebook page and a Twitter account. They can easily communicate with the public and gather them together, which can benefit their political activities. One study concluded that social media is allowing politicians to be perceived as more authentic, with a key finding showing voters feel politicians are more honest on social media compared to in interviews or on TV shows. This is the case especially among young voters, who predominantly use these types of media. This opens up a new voter base for politicians to appeal to directly. Public opinion also affects politics through new media. New media provides two-way communication which allows for greater interaction. People can directly send messages to the government and politicians can comment online. If people are dissatisfied with the government, they can express their thoughts through social media and discuss them with other people online. Many comments of this type gathered together can draw public opinion to focus on the wrongdoings of the government. Since new media has a large user base, political activity is followed by more people than before. New media lets people better supervise government behaviour. Additionally, governments can know public opinion through new media as a reference for decision making. Although new media has both positive and negative effects on politics, it narrows the relationship between the public and politicians. The public is no longer solely a recipient of information. Through new technology, people can give their advice and opinions to the government.\n\nThe media play an indispensable role in the proper functioning of a democracy. Without mass media, openness and accountability are made much more difficult in contemporary democracies. The media can inform the public of how effectively the current government or candidates have performed in the past and help hold them accountable. Nevertheless, mass media can also hinder political transparency. Firstly, the very benefits that new media platforms provide, such as efficiency, ease of access, and wide reach, are often advantageous to those who misuse these platforms for the output of fake and unsubstantiated information. Though new media allows for direct voter-politician interaction and transparency in politics, this potential to subvert information on a wide scale is particularly harmful to the political landscape. According to a 2018 report from Ofcom, 64% of adults got their news from the internet and 44% from social media. With so many people reliant on the internet and social media, manipulation of information and mass spreading of fake news becomes easy, maintaining the power to perpetuate misinformation and alter political agendas in the process. Features distinct to social media, such as likes, retweets, and shares, can also build an ideological echo chamber with the same piece of fake news recirculating. The anxiety of fake news has surrounded elections as of late, in particular the 2016 EU referendum, with a general concern that the leave campaign and Brexit supporters may have been misled by erroneous information regarding the vote. This contention was further fuelled by a whistleblower coming forward in 2018 claiming that political consulting firm Cambridge Analytica \"cheated a Brexit result through the misuse of date and subsequent targeted ads\", something not unique to this election.\nPoliticians and political operatives can simulate transparency through rhetorical and media manipulation. There are three major societal functions that mass media perform to political decisions raised by the political scientist Harold Lasswell: surveillance of the world to report ongoing events, interpretation of the meaning of events, and socialization of individuals into their cultural settings. The mass media regularly present politically crucial information on huge audiences and also represent the reaction of the audience rapidly through the mass media. The government or the political decision-makers have the chance to have a better understanding of the real reaction from the public to those decisions they have made.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1996834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996834", "title": "GIGA Television", "text": "GIGA Television\n\nGIGA was the brand name of a digital TV channel (also known as GIGA Digital or GIGA TV) and several German television shows. The channel ceased operations in 2009.\n\nThe first GIGA show was broadcast on 30 November 1998. The show NBC GIGA was shown first time on the television channel NBC Europe. The show lasted five hours, from 3 pm until 8 pm.\n\nIn March 2005 the show was renamed from NBC GIGA to GIGA Green, airing on its own digital channel starting in September. Also in September 2005 the original show was renamed a second time, now to the simple name GIGA, which caused some confusion because the television channel on which it was broadcast was also named GIGA. The show had been shortened from five hours to three hours, Monday through Friday, and was now being broadcast on the television channel GIGA as well as on the television channel Das Vierte (English: The Fourth).\nThen in March 2006, the show GIGA - the original NBC GIGA - was cancelled. The most popular shows still running at this point were GIGA\\\\Games, GIGA eSports and PLAY.\n\nBeginning 1 January 2008 GIGA Digital Television GmbH in Cologne was operated by Premiere (now Sky Deutschland).\n\nOn 13 February 2009, the managing director of GIGA, Stephan Borg, announced that Premiere decided to shut down the channel and release all staff. Reasons mentioned included the lack of financial success and bad outlook on the advertising market; in general, Premiere wanted to concentrate on its core channels.\n\nThe American gaming and entertainment network IGN Entertainment, which is owned by Fox Interactive Media, announced on 20 April 2009 the acquisition of the gaming community site GIGA.DE - the online arm of the GIGA television channel. The two companies have shared content since August 2008, and IGN took the opportunity to penetrate the German market. Current plans are to maintain the GIGA.DE trademark and structure.\n\nIn September 2011 the ECONA Internet AG, the new owner of GIGA, announced that they want to revive GIGA as a TV show.\nGIGA will first be available only as Web-TV including the Entertainment and Digital Lifestyle Site GIGA.DE.\nGIGA will begin broadcasting in October 2011.\n\n"}
{"id": "1996841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996841", "title": "Claude Fortier", "text": "Claude Fortier\n\nClaude Fortier, (June 11, 1921 – April 22, 1986) was a Canadian physiologist and expert on the pituitary gland.\n\nFrom 1974 to 1975, he was the President of the Royal Society of Canada.\n\n"}
{"id": "1996848", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996848", "title": "Götz", "text": "Götz\n\nGötz or Goetz () is a German name, in origin a hypocorism of \"Gottfried\". It remains in use as a short form of \"Gottfried\", but it has also become a surname.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1996849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996849", "title": "LMS Royal Scot Class", "text": "LMS Royal Scot Class\n\nThe London, Midland and Scottish Railway (LMS) Royal Scot Class is a class of 4-6-0 express passenger locomotive introduced in 1927. Originally having parallel boilers, all members were later rebuilt with tapered type 2A boilers, and were in effect two classes.\n\nUntil the mid-1920s, the LMS had followed the Midland Railway's small engine policy, which meant that it had no locomotives of sufficient power for its expresses on the West Coast Main Line. These trains were entrusted to pairs of LMS/MR Midland Compound 4-4-0s between Glasgow and , and a 4-6-0 locomotive of the LNWR Claughton Class, piloted by an LNWR George V 4-4-0, southwards to Euston station.\n\nThe Operating and Motive Power Departments of the LMS were satisfied with the small engine policy. However, in 1926 the Chief Mechanical Engineer, Henry Fowler, began the design of a compound Pacific express locomotive. The management of the LMS, faced with disagreement between the CME and the other departments, obtained a loan of a GWR Castle class locomotive, \"Launceston Castle\", which was operated for one month between Euston and Carlisle.\n\nFollowing the success of the Castle 4-6-0 in working on the LMS, a decision was taken to cancel Fowler's Pacific project, and to replace it with a 4-6-0 with three cylinders and a simple-expansion steam circuit. Because there was an urgent need for new express locomotives the LMS placed an order with the North British Locomotive Company of Glasgow for 50 engines. The North British, with its extensive drawing office and two works, possessed sufficient capacity to expedite the order within a year. The Derby drawing office and North British staff collaborated in designing the class, with the latter producing the working drawings. Fowler took little part in the design process, which was carried out by Herbert Chambers, Chief Draughtsman at Derby, and his staff. The LMS requested a set of drawings of the Castle class from the GWR, but didn't receive them. Instead a set of drawings of the SR Lord Nelson Class were obtained, and used for the design of the firebox. The main features of the design followed existing Derby practice, with the cylinders and valve gear being derived from the Fowler 2-6-4T, also being designed at Derby at that time.\n\nThey were introduced without testing. Radford claims that the boiler owed much to the MR 0-10-0 Lickey Banker 'Big Bertha'. A further 20 were built by Derby Works.\n\nThey were initially named after regiments of the British Army, and after historical LNWR locomotives. Those with LNWR names were renamed in 1935 and 1936 with more names of regiments.\nFrom late 1931, after several bizarre forms of smoke deflectors were tried on various locomotives to stop drifting smoke obscuring the crew's forward vision, the straight sided smoke deflectors were added. These were later replaced by deflectors with angled top. From 1933 the class was taken off the top-link expresses, being superseded by the LMS Princess Royal Class and later the LMS Coronation Class pacifics.\n\nIn 1933 the LMS was invited to send a locomotive and train to the Century of Progress International Exposition in Chicago, USA. It was decided to send an engine of the Royal Scot class, and one was selected that was due for general overhaul. The identity of this locomotive is generally regarded as having been No. 6152 \"The Kings Dragoon Guardsman\". The coupled axleboxes were replaced with larger ones, based on a GWR design, and the bogie replaced by a De Glehn type, also derived from GWR practice. Springs and spring rigging were also updated, and the boiler replaced. The rebuilt locomotive assumed the identity of 6100 \"The Royal Scot\" with (on its return from the USA) an enlarged nameplate with details of its appearance at the exhibition. It retained this identity after its return from the USA.\n\nLMS 6399 Fury, built in 1929, was an unsuccessful experimental prototype locomotive with a high-pressure, water tube boiler and compound 3-cylinder drive, based on the \"Royal Scot\". It was rebuilt by William Stanier in 1935 with a Type 2 conventional boiler to become 6170 \"British Legion\". This served as the blueprint for later rebuilding, but always remained a one-off.\n\nIn 1942 the LMS rebuilt two LMS Jubilee Class locomotives with Type 2A boilers, but later turned to the parallel-boilered Royal Scots whose boilers and cylinders were life-expired, and whose smokeboxes were difficult to keep airtight. Between 1943 and 1955 the whole class was rebuilt to create the LMS Rebuilt Royal Scot Class. The rebuilds were quite substantial, requiring new boiler, frames and cylinders, but in most cases the original frame stretchers, wheels, cab and fittings were retained. The usual procedure was that as each locomotive arrived for rebuilding, it was stripped and the identity transferred to a fresh frameset prepared using the parts recovered from the locomotive that had previously been rebuilt. The new frames were slightly shorter than the originals. Thus, most rebuilt examples retained their own cab, wheels etc., but most of the frame stretchers, and other integral parts of the frame were from the previously rebuilt loco.\n\nThe new 'Rebuilt Scot' design was carried out under the auspices of William Stanier, who was then engaged on war work, so was actually undertaken by George Ivatt and E.S. Cox. Initially these too were built without smoke deflectors but later acquired them.\n\nOn 30 September 1945, at the Bourne End rail crash, 6157 \"The Royal Artilleryman\" was hauling an express passenger train which was derailed at Bourne End, Hertfordshire due to excessive speed through a set of points. Forty-three people were killed and 64 were injured.\n\nNote: Date built refers to the 'LMS build date'.\n\nNo original Royal Scots in 'as built' condition survive, as all were rebuilt by 1955. However two of the rebuilt locomotives have been preserved as LMS Rebuilt Royal Scot Class examples.\n\n No. 6115 Scots Guardsman featured in the 1936 film Night Mail along with No.6108 Seaforth Highlander, the latter being cleaned at an unknown shed.\n46126 Royal Army Service Corps featured in the 1949 film Train of Events\n\nModels to 00 scale of the Royal Scot in both unrebuilt and rebuilt forms have been produced by several manufacturers, and each has been available in several liveries with a variety of numbers and names. Mainline (Palitoy) introduced a model of the rebuilt locomotives in 1977 and they were followed by Airfix who introduced their own version in 1978, but after the Airfix range was incorporated into the Mainline range, the ex-Airfix model was dropped. In unrebuilt form, G & R Wrenn introduced a model in 1980; and Mainline introduced their own version in 1982. Bachmann took over the tooling for both of the Mainline locomotives, and did do several production runs, with the ultimate intention of re-tooling the design to upgrade it to modern standards and detailing, but unfortunately for them, Hornby beat them to it.\n\nHornby produced their own Rebuilt Scots, these being introduced in 2007, along with the rebuilt patriot locomotives. Rivarossi (now part of Hornby) made a similar model of the No. 6100 in an intermediate 1:80 scale (approx. 3.8 mm/ft) between HO & OO in 1977 based on the original unrebuilt form in LMS livery. It also made another model of the No. 6140 \"Hector\" sister engine.\n\nGraham Farish released a 'N' gauge model in 2009, in LMS Black, and BR Brunswick Green liveries.\n\nComet Models produce a 4 mm kit in brass and white metal for the rebuilt Scot. Wills produced an original version kit in whitemetal which Southeastern Finecast have revised this kit and added an etched chassis. Eames/Jamieson produced a rebuilt version using nickel silver for the superstructure.\n\nBrassmasters did a limited edition kit in 4 mm.\n\nThe erstwhile Kitmaster company produced an unpowered polystyrene injection moulded model kit for TT gauge. In late 1962, the Kitmaster brand was sold by its parent company (Rosebud Dolls) to Airfix. It is thought that the moulds for this locomotive were amongst those lost or destroyed at about this time or before. As a result, unmade examples of this kit exchange hands between collectors for considerable sums.\n\n"}
{"id": "1996851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996851", "title": "The Humpty Dance", "text": "The Humpty Dance\n\n\"The Humpty Dance\" is a song by the rap group Digital Underground that was featured on their debut album \"Sex Packets\". The single climbed to #11 on the pop charts, #7 on the R&B charts, and #1 on the Billboard Rap Singles chart. The single is sung by Shock G's alter ego, \"Humpty Hump\", marking the character's second musical appearance; the first was Digital Underground's \"Doowutchyalike,\" a pre-album video-single released in the spring of 1989. The song has been sampled by many different artists and producers. In the song's video, a young Tupac Shakur is visible in the background.\n\nIn 2008, \"The Humpty Dance\" was ranked #30 on VH1's 100 Greatest Songs of Hip Hop and #65 on VH1's 100 Greatest Songs of the 90s in 2007. The song was selected as one of many songs to hear and download in the musical reference book \"1001 Songs You Must Hear Before You Die: And 10,001 You Must Download\". The song was nominated for Best Rap Video at the 1990 MTV Video Music Awards, but lost to \"U Can't Touch This\" by MC Hammer. Canadian television channel MuchMoreMusic's series \"Back In...\" rated the song's video as one of the worst of 1990.\n\nOf the five raw elements that make up the \"Humpty Dance\" drum track, one is a sample from \"Sing a Simple Song\" by Sly and the Family Stone, in the form of a one-measure-long drum loop. Digital Underground incorporated the Family Stone drum loop with four other raw elements; a deep tonal kick drum that alternated between two bass notes, a handclap snare (also a sample, taken from \"Theme From the Black Hole\" by the band Parliament), drum-machine hi-hats running continuously throughout which were programmed to 8th-notes, and a guitar hit happening once every bar, all assembled into the now-familiar pattern that forms the Humpty Dance drum track. The vocal sample that happens in the song's chorus sections is from Parliament's \"Let's Play House\" from their 1980 album, \"Trombipulation\".\n\n\"The Humpty Dance\" is a tribute to Humpty's sexual prowess despite his ridiculous appearance. Humpty introduces the appearance theme with the opening line, \"I'm about to ruin the image and the style that you're used to,\" a protest against the uniformity among successful rappers of the time.\n\nIn the final verse, Humpty describes the Humpty Dance itself as a loose, easy dance, \"like MC Hammer on crack ... Anyone can play this game.\" The contrast is with the precision dancing in MC Hammer's videos. The song ends with an invitation for people of all races to join in the dance.\n\n\"The Humpty Dance\" is Shock G's second song to feature his alter-ego \"Humpty Hump,\" who debuted on \"Doowutchyalike\" which was Digital Underground's first video release in 1989. The character, which sports a buffoon persona, colorful clothes, and Groucho glasses, is sung by Shock G. A fictional biography was constructed for Humpty, the story being that Edward Ellington Humphrey III, former lead singer of \"Smooth Eddie and the Humpers,\" had become a rapper after burning his nose in a kitchen accident with a deep-fryer. Because of the \"accident\", the character is seen wearing a large nose disguise.\n\nThe song was featured in the VH1 series \"I Love the '90s\", and also on \"America's Best Dance Crew\", where it was included in a dance routine performed by Super Cr3w. The song was also featured in \"Charlie's Angels\". \"Weird Al\" Yankovic covered the song for the polka medley \"Polka Your Eyes Out\" from his 1992 album \"Off the Deep End\". The song is also available for play in the 2004 karaoke video game \"Get On Da Mic\" for PlayStation 2. It was sampled by Justin Timberlake, Jimmy Fallon on \"Late Night with Jimmy Fallon\", and by the Spice Girls on their debut album \"Spice\" as the track \"If U Can't Dance\".\n\nIn 1990, the song was used in the Season Three episode of the TV series \"Midnight Caller\" entitled \"Sale Away: Part 2\". \n\n\"The Humpty Dance\" is one of the most sampled songs recorded by a hip hop/rap artist, boasting over 100 usages in other songs. By 1993, less than three years after its release, it had already been sampled in over 20 popular songs, most of them utilizing its drum track. In fact, it was sampled so much that Digital Underground humorously devoted the song \"The Humpty Dance Awards\" from their album \"The Body-Hat Syndrome\" to the many recording artists who sampled the track. Since then, dozens more artists have sampled the Humpty Dance song, from Ice Cube to Public Enemy.\n\n\nPrinted References:\n\nPosted References:\n\nAudio References:\n"}
{"id": "1996856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996856", "title": "Thind", "text": "Thind\n\nThind is a family name found among Sikhs.\n\nNotable people with the surname Thind, who may or may not have a connection to the clan, include:\n"}
{"id": "1996857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996857", "title": "Nucleation", "text": "Nucleation\n\nNucleation is the first step in the formation of either a new thermodynamic phase or a new structure via self-assembly or self-organization. Nucleation is typically defined to be the process that determines how long an observer has to wait before the new phase or self-organized structure appears. For example, if a volume of water is cooled (at atmospheric pressure) below 0°C, it will tend to freeze into ice, but volumes of water cooled only a few degrees below 0°C often stay completely free of ice for long periods. At these conditions, nucleation of ice is either slow or does not occur at all. However, at lower temperatures ice crystals appear after little or no delay. At these conditions ice nucleation is fast. Nucleation is commonly how first-order phase transitions start, and then it is the start of the process of forming a new thermodynamic phase. In contrast, new phases at continuous phase transitions start to form immediately.\n\nNucleation is often found to be very sensitive to impurities in the system. These impurities may be too small to be seen by the naked eye, but still can control the rate of nucleation. Because of this, it is often important to distinguish between heterogeneous nucleation and homogeneous nucleation. Heterogeneous nucleation occurs at \"nucleation sites\" on surfaces in the system. Homogeneous nucleation occurs away from a surface.\n\nNucleation is usually a stochastic (random) process, so even in two identical systems nucleation will occur at different times. This behaviour is similar to radioactive decay. A common mechanism is illustrated in the animation to the right. This shows nucleation of a new phase (shown in red) in an existing phase (white). In the existing phase microscopic fluctuations of the red phase appear and decay continuously, until an unusually large fluctuation of the new red phase is so large it is more favourable for it to grow than to shrink back to nothing. This nucleus of the red phase then grows and converts the system to this phase. The standard theory that describes this behaviour for the nucleation of a new thermodynamic phase is called classical nucleation theory. However, the CNT fails in describing experimental results of vapour to liquid nucleation even for model substances like argon by several orders of magnitude.\n\nFor nucleation of a new thermodynamic phase, such as the formation of ice in water below 0°C, if the system is not evolving with time and nucleation occurs in one step, then the probability that nucleation has \"not\" occurred should undergo exponential decay as seen in radioactive decay. This is seen for example in the nucleation of ice in supercooled small water droplets. The decay rate of the exponential gives the nucleation rate. Classical nucleation theory is a widely used approximate theory for estimating these rates, and how they vary with variables such as temperature. It correctly predicts that the time you have to wait for nucleation decreases extremely rapidly when supersaturated.\n\nIt is not just new phases such as liquids and crystals that form via nucleation followed by growth. The self-assembly process that forms objects like the amyloid aggregates associated with Alzheimer's disease also starts with nucleation. Energy consuming self-organising systems such as the microtubules in cells also show nucleation and growth.\n\nHeterogeneous nucleation, nucleation with the nucleus at a surface, is much more common than homogeneous nucleation.\nFor example, in the nucleation of ice from supercooled water droplets, purifying the water to remove all or almost all impurities results in water droplets that freeze below around - 35°C , whereas water that contains impurities may freeze at - 5°C or warmer. \n\nThis observation that heterogeneous nucleation can occur when the rate of homogeneous nucleation is essentially zero, is often understood using classical nucleation theory. This predicts that the nucleation slows exponentially with the height of a free energy barrier ΔG*. This barrier comes from the free energy penalty of forming the surface of the growing nucleus. For homogeneous nucleation the nucleus is approximated by a sphere, but as we can see in the schematic of macroscopic droplets to the right, droplets on surfaces are not complete spheres and so the area of the interface between the droplet and the surrounding fluid is less than a sphere's formula_1. This reduction in surface area of the nucleus reduces the height of the barrier to nucleation and so speeds nucleation up exponentially.\n\nNucleation can also start at the surface of a liquid. For example, computer simulations of gold nanoparticles show that the crystal phase nucleates at the liquid-gold surface.\n\nClassical nucleation theory makes a number of assumptions, for example it treats a microscopic nucleus as if it is a macroscopic droplet with a well-defined surface whose free energy is estimated using an equilibrium property: the interfacial tension σ. For a nucleus that may be only of order ten molecules across it is not always clear that we can treat something so small as a volume plus a surface. Also nucleation is an inherently out of thermodynamic equilibrium phenomenon so it is not always obvious that its rate can be estimated using equilibrium properties.\n\nHowever, modern computers are powerful enough to calculate essentially exact nucleation rates for simple models. These have been compared with the classical theory, for example for the case of nucleation of the crystal phase in the model of hard spheres. This is a model of perfectly hard spheres in thermal motion, and is a simple model of some colloids. For the crystallization of hard spheres the classical theory is a very reasonable approximate theory. So for the simple models we can study, classical nucleation theory works quite well, but we do not know if it works equally well for (say) complex molecules crystallising out of solution.\n\nPhase-transition processes can also be explained in terms of spinodal decomposition, where phase separation is delayed until the system enters the unstable region where a small perturbation in composition leads to a decrease in energy and, thus, spontaneous growth of the perturbation. This region of a phase diagram is known as the spinodal region and the phase separation process is known as spinodal decomposition and may be governed by the Cahn–Hilliard equation.\n\nIn many cases, liquids and solutions can be cooled down or concentrated up to conditions where the liquid or solution is significantly less thermodynamically stable than the crystal, but where no crystals will form for minutes, hours, weeks or longer. Nucleation of the crystal is then being prevented by a substantial barrier. This has consequences, for example cold high altitude clouds may contain large numbers of small liquid water droplets that are far below 0°C.\n\nIn small volumes, such as in small droplets, only one nucleation event may be needed for crystallisation. In these small volumes, the time until the first crystal appears is usually defined to be the nucleation time. In larger volumes many nucleation events will occur. A simple model for crystallisation in that case, that combines nucleation and growth is the KJMA or Avrami model.\n\nThe time until the appearance of the first crystal is also called primary nucleation time, to distinguish it from secondary nucleation times. Primary here refers to the first nucleus to form, while secondary nuclei are crystal nuclei produced from a preexisting crystal. Primary nucleation describes the transition to a new phase that does not rely on the new phase already being present, either because it is the very first nucleus of that phase to form, or because the nucleus forms far from any pre-existing piece of the new phase. Particularly in the study of crystallisation, secondary nucleation can be important. This is the formation of nuclei of a new crystal directly caused by pre-existing crystals.\n\nFor example, if the crystals are in a solution and the system is subject to shearing forces, small crystal nuclei could be sheared off a growing crystal, thus increasing the number of crystals in the system. So both primary and secondary nucleation increase the number of crystals in the system but their mechanisms are very different, and secondary nucleation relies on crystals already being present.\n\nIt is typically difficult to experimentally study the nucleation of crystals. The nucleus is microscopic, and thus too small to be directly observed. In large liquid volumes there are typically multiple nucleation events, and it is difficult to disentangle the effects of nucleation from those of growth of the nucleated phase. These problems can be overcome by working with small droplets. As nucleation is stochastic, many droplets are needed so that statistics for the nucleation events can be obtained. \n\nNucleation occurs in different droplets at different times, hence the fraction is not a simple step function that drops sharply from one to zero at one particular time. The red curve is a fit of a Gompertz function to the data. This is a simplified version of the model Pound and La Mer used to model their data. The model assumes that nucleation occurs due to impurity particles in the liquid tin droplets, and it makes the simplifying assumption that all impurity particles produce nucleation at the same rate. It also assumes that these particles are Poisson distributed among the liquid tin droplets. The fit values are that the nucleation rate due to a single impurity particle is 0.02/s, and the average number of impurity particles per droplet is 1.2. Note that about 30% of the tin droplets never freeze; the data plateau at a fraction of about 0.3. Within the model this is assumed to be because, by chance, these droplets do not have even one impurity particle and so there is no heterogeneous nucleation. Homogeneous nucleation is assumed to be negligible on the timescale of this experiment. The remaining droplets freeze in a stochastic way, at rates 0.02/s if they have one impurity particle, 0.04/s if they have two, and so on.\n\nThese data are just one example, but they illustrate common features of the nucleation of crystals in that there is clear evidence for heterogeneous nucleation, and that nucleation is clearly stochastic.\n\nThe freezing of small water droplets to ice is an important process, particularly in the formation and dynamics of clouds. Water (at atmospheric pressure) does not freeze at 0°C, but rather at temperatures that tend to decrease as the volume of the water decreases and as the water impurity increases. Thus small droplets of water, as found in clouds, may remain liquid far below 0°C.\n\nAn example of experimental data on the freezing of small water droplets is shown at the right. The plot shows the fraction of a large set of water droplets, that are still liquid water, i.e., have not yet frozen, as a function of temperature. Note that the highest temperature at which any of the droplets freezes is close to -19°C, while the last droplet to freeze does so at almost -35°C.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1996860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996860", "title": "Fréjus Road Tunnel", "text": "Fréjus Road Tunnel\n\nThe Fréjus Road Tunnel is a tunnel that connects France and Italy. It runs under Col du Fréjus in the Cottian Alps between Modane in France and Bardonecchia in Italy. It is one of the major trans-Alpine transport routes between France and Italy being used for 80% of the commercial road traffic.\n\nConstruction of the long tunnel started in 1974, and it came into service on 12 July 1980, leading to the closure of the motorail shuttle service in the Fréjus rail tunnel. It cost 2 billion francs (equivalent to €700 million at 2005 prices). It is the tenth longest road tunnel in the world.\n\nThe French section is managed by the French company SFTRF, and the Italian section by the Italian company SITAF. (The French politician Pierre Dumas was chairman of SFTRF from 1962 to 1989). The tunnel can be reached from the Italian side by the A32 Torino-Bardonecchia motorway, or by SS335 from Oulx, which joins SS24 (“del Monginevro”), and reaches Bardonecchia after . From the French side, it can be reached by the A43 (“l’Autoroute de la Maurienne”) from Lyon and Chambéry. A toll is charged to all traffic. Over 20 million vehicles passed through the tunnel during the first 20 years.\n\nFollowing a 1999 accident in the Mont Blanc tunnel, measures were taken at the start of 2000 to improve safety in the tunnel. A strict speed limit, and a safe distance of between vehicles was imposed. The tunnel was equipped with the latest smoke and flame detectors, and a system of videocameras in the tunnel to detect the speed of traffic, as well as fire and smoke. Temperature sensors were installed at short distances throughout the tunnel, monitored from a central control post. Fire hydrants were installed every 130 m, fed from large water tanks. There are 11 safety points along the tunnel, equipped with telephones and loud speakers connected to the control room, with a separate ventilation duct to supply fresh air. These are separated from the main tunnel by two fire doors; the outer door closes automatically when the temperature in the tunnel reaches a certain level. Finally there is a ‘thermal gate’ system at each entrance to identify any overheating vehicles.\n\nDespite these measures, on 4 June 2005, a fire caused the death of two Slovak lorry drivers, and the closure of the tunnel to traffic for several weeks. It reopened to cars on 4 August 2005, and later to commercial vehicles. The tunnel was also briefly closed due to non-fatal fires on 9 January 2007, 29 November 2010, and 10 April 2014.\n\nA second shaft, parallel to the existing one at a distance of , is under construction. Work began in 2009, following EU regulations put in place after the Mont Blanc Tunnel fire. Originally planned as an wide rescue tunnel, an agreement was reached in 2012 to open the new shaft to traffic towards France while converting one lane of the existing shaft into an emergency lane. The breakthrough occurred on 17 November 2014. The new shaft is due to open to traffic on October 1, 2021 at the earliest. As there will still be a single lane for each direction (the other lane being an emergency lane), the capacity of the tunnel will remain unchanged. Both shafts will be connected by a series of passages, five of which can be used by emergency vehicles.\n\nThe firefighting team consists of four intervention teams: positioned on the Italian and French sides, and two inside the tunnel, about from each end.\n\nNear the midpoint is the Laboratoire Souterrain de Modane (also referred to as the Fréjus Underground Laboratory). This site houses the Neutrino Ettore Majorana Observatory (NEMO experiment), an international collaboration of scientists searching for neutrinoless double beta decay. An observation of neutrinoless double beta decay would be evidence that neutrinos are Majorana particles and could be used to measure the neutrino mass. Attempts are underway to build a larger laboratory, either in the same tunnel or in the even deeper Lyon Turin Ferroviaire 15 km to the east.\n\n"}
{"id": "1996862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996862", "title": "Naima Mora", "text": "Naima Mora\n\nNaima Mora (born March 1, 1984) is an American fashion model and the winner of Cycle 4 of \"America's Next Top Model\".\n\nMora was born in Detroit, Michigan, the daughter of jazz vocalist and entrepreneur Theresa Mora and jazz percussionist Francisco Mora Catlett. Her paternal grandparents are Francisco Mora (painter) and sculptor, painter, and printmaker Elizabeth Catlett. She is the inspiration for her grandmother's 2001 black marble bust entitled \"Naima\". Catlett described it as:\n\nHer father is half Mexican and half African-American; her mother is Irish and African-American. She was named after the John Coltrane song \"Naima\". Mora has five sisters, including her identical twin, Nia, who is a photographer. Her older sister, Ife Sanchez Mora (born 1977), is a singer/ songwriter and was signed to Tricky's Massive Attack label Durban Poison/ DreamWorks S.K.G in the trip-hop group, The Autumn People and is now a solo rock singer Ife Sanchez Mora and part of duet Ife & Danny and was the wife of chef Aaron Sanchez.\n\nMora grew up near West McNichols and Schaefer on Detroit's northwest side and attended Bates Academy for middle school. She graduated from Cass Technical High School in Detroit in 2002. A serious ballet student, Mora attended Detroit's Ballet Renaissance and was enrolled in American Ballet Theatre's Detroit summer program.\n\nMora practices Nichiren Buddhism and is an active member of the Soka Gakkai International. In 2013, she gave a Ted Talk describing her upbringing and the influence of Buddhism on her career.\n\nOn September 3, 2012, she released the iBook \"Naima Mora's Model Behavior\", published by Possibility Publishing & Entertainment. She has been seen on television as a guest on \"The Tyra Banks Show\", on the second season premiere of \"Veronica Mars\", and in a CoverGirl commercial with Yoanna House.\n\nMora and Cycle 3's Ann Markley were Trophy Girls at the 2005 Primetime Emmy Awards. Mora also served as a judge at the Miss Teen USA Pageant in 2005.\n\nMora has done print modeling for \"CoverGirl\", \"ELLE\" Magazine, \"Fuego\" Magazine, \"Us Weekly\" Magazine, \"Radar\", \"In Touch\", \"Star\", \"Teen People\", Split Clothing, and elsewhere. Mora's runway shows include Christopher Deane Spring 2006 Collection, Gharani Strok Fall 2005, Carlos Miele Fashion Show, Walmart and ELLEgirl Presents Dare To Be You Spring 2006, Fashion Comedy Style 2005 (Charity Event), and New York Fashion Week 2007. She has modeled with her sisters twice: with her sister, Ife, for iTunes and with her twin, Nia, for Cycle 2's Camille McDonald's lingerie line, Lingerwear.\n\nIn 2006, she completed filming a role in the independent film \"Sarbanes-Oxley\" and made an appearance in a music video for TV on the Radio's \"Wolf Like Me.\" The following year, she was on the cover of \"U&U\" magazine and \"Uzuri\" magazine and was photographed by Romer Pedrome and Derek Blanks. In 2008, she had a cover and editorial in \"Vicious\" magazine, and she signed with 301 Model Management in Miami and Basic Model Management in New York City. She got a showcard for Fashion Week SS09 and walked in the Project Runway Finale for designer Joe Farris.\n\nMora was the vocalist for the unsigned band Chewing Pics. As of fall 2009 the group was disbanded. Mora joined the band Galaxy of Tar.\n\n"}
{"id": "1996865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996865", "title": "Norman Mingo", "text": "Norman Mingo\n\nNorman Theodore Mingo (25 January 1896 – 8 May 1980) was an American commercial artist and illustrator. He is most famous for being commissioned to formalize the image of Alfred E. Neuman for \"Mad.\" \n\nA prolific magazine illustrator in the Norman Rockwell vein, Mingo resided in the Chicago area for decades before retiring to Tarrytown, New York. As a child, he won an art contest, receiving art materials and a correspondence course as a prize. Mingo had early professional success, even dropping out of high school for a year due to his workload. In the 1920s and early 1930s, he ran a Chicago ad studio whose staff included future Captain Marvel artist C.C. Beck; the studio closed during the Great Depression. Thereafter he worked largely as a freelancer, including as an illustrator for various advertising agencies and magazines, including \"American Weekly\", \"Ladies' Home Journal\" and \"Pictorial Review\". He drew Hollywood paper doll books with oversized heads of actors such as Bette Davis, Deanna Durbin and Rita Heyworth. He provided a bikinied pin-up girl for a 1946 Mennen Skin Bracer advert, signed with his distinctive Mingo script. In addition to pin-up art, he also illustrated for paperbacks (Pocket Books), served as a traditional portraitist, painting such subjects as General George S. Patton Jr., and drew numerous movie posters including \"Gentlemen Prefer Blondes\".\nIn 1956 Mingo answered a \"New York Times\" ad for an illustrator (\"National magazine wants portrait artist for special project\"), and was selected by \"Mad\" publisher William M. Gaines and editor Al Feldstein to create a warmer, more polished version of a public domain character the magazine had been using. Previously, the magazine had printed a rougher image and redrawings of the character, which were randomly dubbed \"Melvin F. Coznowski\" or \"Mel Haney\" in addition to \"Alfred E. Neuman.\" The Panglossian simpleton had appeared in many guises and variations since the 19th century, including in dental advertisements that assured the public of minimal tooth-pulling pain. Mingo's initial painting was the first time Neuman had appeared in color.\n\n\"Mad\" editor Al Feldstein recalled the day Mingo responded to the ad at the \"Mad\" offices:\nPermanently named \"Alfred E. Neuman\", the character became \"Mad\" magazine's mascot with issue #30. In November 2008, Mingo's original cover featuring the first \"official\" portrait of Neuman sold at auction for $203,150.\n\nNorman Mingo painted eight \"Mad\" covers in 1956-7 before his more regular work with the top-tier Dancer Fitzgerald Sample advertising agency took up all of his time. Mingo had actually landed both jobs on the same day. While working exclusively in advertising, Mingo illustrated campaigns for a variety of companies including General Mills cereal, L&M cigarettes, Falstaff Beer and the U.S. Army.\n\nDuring Mingo's absence, Frank Kelly Freas rendered Neuman for \"Mad\" from 1958 to 1962. Mingo returned to \"Mad\" in 1962 and painted most of its front covers until 1976. Most of his Neuman images were a combination of watercolor and acrylics, but he occasionally experimented with different media. His last \"Mad\" cover appeared on issue #211 (December 1979). Mingo produced 97 \"Mad\" covers in total, plus over 100 additional cover images for \"Mad\"s many reprint Specials and its line of paperbacks. He also drew occasional \"Mad\"-related assignments for others, such as an Alfred-ized version of beleaguered New York City Mayor Abe Beame in 1976 for the \"New York Times\".\n\nMingo's \"Mad\" cover total surpassed Freas' in 1965, and his leading status endured until 2016, when current contributor Mark Fredrickson became the most prolific \"Mad\" cover artist with his 98th cover. Combining the regular issues (including some back covers), the reprint \"\"MAD\" Specials\" and the paperbacks, Mingo produced more than 200 original covers for \"Mad\". Fellow cover artists Jack Rickard and Bob Jones have remarked that Mingo was the only one who could paint the Neuman character perfectly \"on model\" every time.\n\nA born again Christian, Mingo began signing his covers (executed in gouache) with the ichthys beneath his name in 1975, beginning with \"Mad\" #174. At that time he and his wife Margaret attended the Second Reformed Church in Tarrytown, New York.\n\nIn contrast to his usual rendering of the definitive Neuman face, Mingo created a dramatic variation in 1979, after the nuclear accident at Three Mile Island. On the back cover of issue #210, with an exaggerated version of the plant's meltdown in the background, Alfred stands in front of cracking cooling towers, sweating and hair standing on end, and abandons his trademark grin for a grimace as he says, \"YES...ME WORRY!\".\n\n60 years old when he took his first \"Mad\" cover assignment, Mingo was the oldest of the magazine's regulars to make his debut. He was also the only veteran of the First World War ever to write or draw for \"Mad\", having served three years in the Navy.\n\nMingo died on May 8, 1980, after a lengthy illness.\n\n"}
{"id": "1996872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996872", "title": "Greater India", "text": "Greater India\n\nGreater India, or Indian cultural sphere is an area composed of many countries and regions in South and Southeast Asia that were historically influenced by Indian culture and languages. The term \"Greater India\" is used to encompass the historical and geographic extent of all political entities of the Indian subcontinent, and the regions which are culturally linked to India or received significant Sanskritisation and Indian cultural influence. These countries have been transformed to varying degrees by the acceptance and induction of cultural and institutional elements of India. Since around 500 BCE, Asia's expanding land and maritime trade had resulted in prolonged socio-economic and cultural stimulation and diffusion of Hindu and Buddhist beliefs into the region's cosmology, in particular in Southeast Asia and Sri Lanka. In Central Asia, transmission of ideas were predominantly of a religious nature.\n\nBy the early centuries of the common era most of the principalities of Southeast Asia had effectively absorbed defining aspects of Hindu culture, religion and administration. The notion of divine god-kingship was introduced by the concept of Harihara, Sanskrit and other Indian epigraphic systems were declared official, like those of the south Indian Pallava dynasty and Chalukya dynasty. These Indianized Kingdoms, a term coined by George Cœdès in his work \"Histoire ancienne des états hindouisés d'Extrême-Orient\", were characterized by surprising resilience, political integrity and administrative stability.\n\nTo the north, Indian religious ideas were accepted into the cosmology of Himalayan peoples, most profoundly in Tibet and Bhutan. Buddhist monasticism extended into Afghanistan, Uzbekistan and other parts of Central Asia, and Buddhist texts and ideas were readily accepted in China and Japan in the east. To the west, Indian culture converged with Greater Persia via the Hindukush and the Pamir Mountains.\n\nThe concept of the \"Three Indias\" was in common circulation in pre-industrial Europe. \"Greater India\" was the southern part of South Asia, \"Lesser India\" was the northern part of South Asia, and \"Middle India\" was the region near the Middle East. The Portuguese form () was used at least since the mid-15th century. The term, which seems to have been used with variable precision, sometimes meant only the Indian subcontinent; Europeans used a variety of terms related to South Asia to designate the South Asian peninsula, including \"High India\", \"Greater India\", \"Exterior India\" and \"India aquosa\".\n\nHowever, in some accounts of European nautical voyages, Greater India (or \"India Major\") extended from the Malabar Coast (present-day Kerala) to \"India extra Gangem\" (lit. \"India, beyond the Ganges,\" but usually the East Indies, i.e. present-day Malay Archipelago) and \"India Minor\", from Malabar to Sind. \"Farther India\" was sometimes used to cover all of modern Southeast Asia. Until the fourteenth century, India could also mean areas along the Red Sea, including Somalia, South Arabia, and Ethiopia (e.g., Diodorus of Sicily of the first century BC says that \"the Nile rises in India\" and Marco Polo of the fourteenth century says that \"Lesser India ... contains ... Abash [Abyssinia]\")\n\nIn late 19th-century geography, \"Greater India\" referred to British India, Hindustan (Northwestern Subcontinent) which included the Punjab, the Himalayas, and extended eastwards to Indochina (including Tibet and Burma), parts of Indonesia (namely, the Sunda Islands, Borneo and Celebes), and the Philippines.\" German atlases distinguished \"Vorder-Indien\" (Anterior India) as the South Asian peninsula and \"Hinter-Indien\" as Southeast Asia.\n\n\"Greater India\", or \"Greater India Basin\" also signifies \"the Indian Plate plus a postulated northern extension\", the product of the \"Indian–Asia collision\". Although its usage in geology pre-dates Plate tectonic theory, the term has seen increased usage since the 1970s. It is unknown when and where the India–Asia (Indian and Eurasian Plate) convergence occurred, at or before 52 Million years ago. The plates have converged up to ± . The upper crustal shortening is documented from geological record of Asia and the Himalaya as up to approximately less.\n\nIndianization is different from direct colonialism in that these Indianized lands were not inhabited by organizations from the Indian subcontinent, with exceptions such as the Chola invasions of medieval times. Instead, Indian cultural influence from trade routes and language use slowly permeated through Southeast Asia, making the traditions a part of the region. The interactions between India and Southeast Asia were marked by waves of influence and dominance. At some points, the Indian culture solely found its way into the region, and at other points, the influence was used to take over. Indianization was seen as the total influence of all aspects of Southeast Asian history. Before the take over of the influence of Indian culture, Southeast Asia was seen as a place with no history. The beginning of Indianization marked the start of the cultural commencement in Southeast Asia.\n\nThe concept of the Indianized kingdoms, a term coined by George Coedès, describes Southeast Asian principalities that flourished from the early common era as a result of centuries of socio-economic interaction having incorporated central aspects of Indian institutions, religion, statecraft, administration, culture, epigraphy, literature and architecture.\n\nIron Age trade expansion caused regional geostrategic remodeling. Southeast Asia was now situated in the central area of convergence of the Indian and the East Asian maritime trade routes, the basis for economic and cultural growth. The earliest Hindu kingdoms emerged in Sumatra and Java, followed by mainland polities such as Funan and Champa. Adoption of Indian civilization elements and individual adaptation stimulated the emergence of centralized states and the development of highly organized societies. Ambitious local leaders realized the benefits of Hinduism and Indian methods of administration, culture, literature, etc. Rule in accord with universal moral principles, represented in the concept of the \"devaraja\", was more appealing than the Chinese concept of intermediaries.\n\nAs conclusive evidence is missing, numerous Indianization theories of Southeast Asia have emerged since the early 20th century. The central question usually revolves around the main propagator of Indian institutional and cultural ideas in Southeast Asia.\n\nOne theory of the spread of Indianization that focuses on the caste of Vaishya traders and their role for spreading Indian culture and language into Southeast Asia through trade. There were many trade incentives that brought Vaishya traders to Southeast Asia, the most important of which was gold. During the 4th century C.E., when the first evidence of Indian trader in Southeast Asia, the Indian sub-continent was at a deficiency for gold due to extensive control of overland trade routes by the Roman Empire. This made many Vaishya traders look to the seas to acquire new gold, of which Southeast Asia was abundant. However, the conclusion that Indianization was just spread through trade is insufficient, as Indianization permeated through all classes of Southeast Asian society, not just the merchant classes.\n\nAnother theory states that Indianization spread through the warrior class of Kshatriya. This hypothesis effectively explains state formation in Southeast Asia, as these warriors came with the intention of conquering the local peoples and establishing their own political power in the region. However, this theory hasn't attracted much interest from historians as there is very little literary evidence to support it.\n\nThe most widely accepted theory for the spread of Indianization into Southeast Asia is through the class of Brahman scholars. These Brahmans brought with them many of the Hindu religious and philosophical traditions and spread them to the elite classes of Southeast Asian polities. Once these traditions were adopted into the elite classes, it disseminated throughout all the lower classes, thus explaining the Indianization present in all classes of Southeast Asian society. Brahmans were also experts in art and architecture, and political affairs, thus explaining the adoption of many Indian style law codes and architecture into Southeast Asian society\n\nIt is unknown how immigration, interaction, and settlement took place, whether by key figures from India or through Southeast Asians visiting India who took elements of Indian culture back home. It is likely that Hindu and Buddhist traders, priests, and princes traveled to Southeast Asia from India in the first few centuries of the Common Era and eventually settled there. Strong impulse most certainly came from the region's ruling classes who invited Brahmans to serve at their courts as priests, astrologers and advisers. Divinity and royalty were closely connected in these polities as Hindu rituals validated the powers of the monarch. Brahmans and priests from India proper played a key role in supporting ruling dynasties through exact rituals. Dynastic consolidation was the basis for more centralized kingdoms that emerged in Java, Sumatra, Cambodia, Burma, and along the central and south coasts of Vietnam from the 4th to 8th centuries.\n\nArt, architecture, rituals, and cultural elements such as the Rāmāyaṇa and the Mahābhārata had been adopted and customized increasingly with a regional character. The caste system, although adopted, was never applied universally and reduced to serve for a selected group of nobles only. Many struggle to date and determine when Indianizaton in Southeast Asia occurred because of the structures and ruins found that were similar to those in India.\n\nStates such as Srivijaya, Majapahit and the Khmer empire had territorial continuity, resilient population and surplus economies that rivaled those in India itself. Borobudur in Java and Angkor in Cambodia are, apart from their grandeur, examples of a distinctly developed regional culture, style, and expression.\n\nSoutheast Asia is called Suvarnabhumi or Sovannah Phoum - the golden land and Suvarnadvipa - the golden Islands in Sanskrit. It was frequented by traders from eastern India, particularly Kalinga. Cultural and trading relations between the powerful Chola dynasty of South India and the Southeast Asian Hindu kingdoms led the Bay of Bengal to be called \"The Chola Lake\", and the Chola attacks on Srivijaya in the 10th century CE are the sole example of military attacks by Indian rulers against Southeast Asia. The Pala dynasty of Bengal, which controlled the heartland of Buddhist India, maintained close economic, cultural and religious ties, particularly with Srivijaya.\n\nThe pre-Indic political and social systems in Southeast Asia were marked by a relative indifference towards lineage descent. Hindu God kingship enabled rulers to supersede loyalties, forge cosmopolitan polities and the worship of Shiva and Vishnu was combined with ancestor worship, so that Khmer, Javanese, and Cham rulers claimed semi-divine status as descendants of a God. Hindu traditions, especially the relationship to the sacrality of the land and social structures, are inherent in Hinduism's transnational features. The epic traditions of the Mahābhārata and the Rāmāyaṇa further legitimized a ruler identified with a God who battled and defeated the wrong doers that threaten the ethical order of the world.\n\nHinduism does not have a single historical founder, a centralized imperial authority in India proper nor a bureaucratic structure, thus ensuring relative religious independence for the individual ruler. It also allows for multiple forms of divinity, centered upon the Trimurti the triad of Brahma, Vishnu, and Shiva, the deities responsible for the creation, preservation, and destruction of the universe.\n\nThe effects of Hinduism and Buddhism applied a tremendous impact on the many civilizations inhabiting Southeast Asia which significantly provided some structure to the composition of written traditions. An essential factor for the spread and adaptation of these religions originated from trading systems of the third and fourth century. In order to spread the message of these religions Buddhist monks and Hindu priests joined mercantile classes in the quest to share their religious and cultural values and beliefs. Along the Mekong delta, evidence of Indianized religious models can be observed in communities labeled Funan. There can be found the earliest records engraved on a rock in Vocanh. The engravings consist of Buddhist archives and a south Indian scripts are written in Sanskrit that have been dated to belong to the early half of the third century. Indian religion was profoundly absorbed by local cultures that formed their own distinctive variations of these structures in order to reflect their own ideals.\n\nChampa, Dvaravati, Funan, Gangga Negara, Kadaram, Kalingga, Kutai, Langkasuka, Pagan, Pan Pan, Po-ni, and Tarumanagara had by the 1st to 4th centuries CE adopted Hinduism's cosmology and rituals, the \"devaraja\" concept of kingship, and Sanskrit as official writing. Despite the fundamental cultural integration, these kingdoms were autonomous in their own right and functioned independently.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nBeginning shortly after the 12th century, the Khmer kingdom, one of the first kingdoms that began the dissipation of Indianization started after Jayavarman VII in which expanded a substantial amount of territory, thus going into war with Champa. Leading into the fall of the Khmer Kingdom, the Khmer political and cultural zones were taken, overthrown, and fallen as well. Not only did Indianization change many cultural and political aspects, but it also changed the spiritual realm as well, creating a type of Northern Culture which began in the early 14th century, prevalent for its rapid decline in the Indian kingdoms. The decline of Hinduism kingdoms and spark of Buddhist kingdoms led to the formation of orthodox Sinhalese Buddhism and is a key factor leading to the decline of Indianization. Sukhothai and Ceylon are the prominent characters who formulated the center of Buddhism and this became more popularized over Hinduism.\n\nNot only was the spark of Buddhism the driving force for Indianization coming to an end, but Islamic control took over as well in the midst of the thirteenth century to trump the Hinduist kingdoms. In the process of Islam coming to the traditional Hinduism kingdoms, trade was heavily practiced and the now Islamic Indians started becoming merchants all over Southeast Asia. Moreover, as trade became more saturated in the Southeast Asian regions wherein Indianization once persisted, the regions had become more Muslim populated. This so-called Islamic control has spanned to many of the trading centers across the regions of Southeast Asia, including one of the most dominant centers, Malacca, and has therefore stressed a widespread rise of Islamization.\n\nThe use of \"Greater India\" to refer to an Indian cultural sphere was popularised by a network of Bengali scholars in the 1920s who were all members of the Calcutta-based Greater India Society. The movement's early leaders included the historian R. C. Majumdar (1888–1980); the philologists Suniti Kumar Chatterji (1890–1977) and P. C. Bagchi (1898–1956), and the historians Phanindranath Bose and Kalidas Nag (1891–1966). Some of their formulations were inspired by concurrent excavations in Angkor by French archaeologists and by the writings of French Indologist Sylvain Lévi. The scholars of the society postulated a benevolent ancient Indian cultural colonisation of Southeast Asia, in stark contrast — in their view — to the Western colonialism of the early 20th century.\n\nThe term \"Greater India\" and the notion of an explicit Hindu expansion of ancient Southeast Asia have been linked to both Indian nationalism and Hindu nationalism. However, many Indian nationalists, like Jawaharlal Nehru and Rabindranath Tagore, although receptive to \"an idealisation of India as a benign and uncoercive world civiliser and font of global enlightenment,\" stayed away from explicit \"Greater India\" formulations. In addition, some scholars have seen the Hindu/Buddhist acculturation in ancient Southeast Asia as \"a single cultural process in which Southeast Asia was the matrix and South Asia the mediatrix.\" In the field of art history, especially in American writings, the term survived due to the influence of art theorist Ananda Coomaraswamy. Coomaraswamy's view of pan-Indian art history was influenced by the \"Calcutta cultural nationalists.\"\n\nBy some accounts Greater India consists of \"lands including Burma, Java, Cambodia, Bali, and the former Champa and Funan polities of present-day Vietnam,\" in which Indian and Hindu culture left an \"imprint in the form of monuments, inscriptions and other traces of the historic \"Indianizing\" process.\" By some other accounts, many Pacific societies and \"most of the Buddhist world including Ceylon, Tibet, Central Asia, and even Japan were held to fall within this web of Indianizing \"culture colonies\"\" This particular usage — implying cultural \"sphere of influence\" of India — was promoted by the Greater India Society, formed by a group of Bengali men of letters, and is not found before the 1920s. The term \"Greater India\" was used in historical writing in India into the 1970s.\n\nCulture spread via the trade routes that linked India with southern Burma, central and southern Siam, the Malay peninsula and Sumatra to Java, lower Cambodia and Champa. The Pali and Sanskrit languages and the Indian script, together with Theravada and Mahayana Buddhism, Brahmanism and Hinduism, were transmitted from direct contact as well as through sacred texts and Indian literature. Southeast Asia had developed some prosperous and very powerful colonial empires that contributed to Hindu-Buddhist artistic creations and architectural developments. Art and architectural creations that rivaled those built in India, especially in its sheer size, design and aesthetic achievements. The notable examples are Borobudur in Java and Angkor monuments in Cambodia. The Srivijaya Empire to the south and the Khmer Empire to the north competed for influence in the region.\n\nA defining characteristic of the cultural link between Southeast Asia and the Indian subcontinent was the adoption of ancient Indian Vedic/Hindu and Buddhist culture and philosophy into Myanmar, Tibet, Thailand, Indonesia, Malaya, Laos and Cambodia. Indian scripts are found in Southeast Asian islands ranging from Sumatra, Java, Bali, South Sulawesi and part of the Philippines. The Ramayana and the Mahabharata have had a large impact on South Asia and Southeast Asia. One of the most tangible evidence of dharmic Hindu traditions is the widespread use of the \"Añjali Mudrā\" gesture of greeting and respect. It is seen in the Indian \"namasté\" and similar gestures known throughout Southeast Asia; its cognates include the Cambodian \"sampeah\", the Indonesian \"sembah\", the Japanese \"gassho\" and Thai \"wai\".\n\nBeyond the Himalaya and Hindukush mountains in the north, along the Silk Route Indian influence was linked with Buddhism. Tibet and Khotan was direct heirs of Gangetic Buddhism, despite the difference in languages. Many Tibetan monks even used to know Sanskrit very well. In Khotan the Ramayana was well cicrulated in Khotanese language, though the narrative is slightly different from the Gangetic version. In Afghanistan, Uzbekistan and Tajikistan many Buddhist monasteries were established. These countries were used as a kind of springboard for the monks who brought Indian Buddhist texts and images to China. Further north, in the Gobi Desert, statues of Ganesha and Kartikeya was found alongside Buddhist imagery in Mogao Caves.\n\n\nIndians spread their religion to Southeast Asia, beginning the Hindu and Buddhist cultures there. They introduced the caste system to the region, especially to Java, Bali, Madura, and Sumatra. The adopted caste system was not as strict as in India, tempered to the local context. There are multiple similarities between the two caste systems such that both state that no one is equal within society and that everyone has his own place. It also promoted the upbringing of highly organized central states. Indians were still able to implement their religion, political ideas, literature, mythology, and art.\n\n\nScholars like Sheldon Pollock have used the term \"Sanskrit Cosmopolis\" to describe the region and argued for millennium-long cultural exchanges without necessarily involving migration of peoples or colonisation. Pollock's 2006 book \"The Language of the Gods in the World of Men\" makes a case for studying the region as comparable with Latin Europe and argues that the Sanskrit language was its unifying element.\n\nScripts in Sanskrit discovered during the early centuries of the Common Era are the earliest known forms of writing to have extended all the way to Southeast Asia. Its gradual impact ultimately resulted in its widespread domain as a means of dialect which evident in regions, from Bangladesh to Cambodia, Malaysia and Thailand and additionally a few of the larger Indonesian islands. In addition, alphabets from languages spoken in Burmese, Thai, Laos, and Cambodia are variations formed off of Indian ideals that have localized the language.\n\nSanskrit and related languages have also influenced their Tibeto-Burman-speaking neighbors to the north through the spread of Buddhist texts in translation. The spread of Buddhism to Tibet allowed many Sanskrit texts to survive only in Tibetan translation (in the Tanjur). Buddhism was similarly introduced to China by Mahayanist missionaries sent by the Indian Emperor Ashoka mostly through translations of Buddhist Hybrid Sanskrit and Classical Sanskrit texts, and many terms were transliterated directly and added to the Chinese vocabulary.\n\nIn Southeast Asia, languages such as Thai and Lao contain many loan words from Sanskrit, as does Khmer to a lesser extent. For example, in Thai, Rāvaṇa, the legendary emperor of Sri Lanka, is called 'Thosakanth' which is derived from his Sanskrit name 'Daśakaṇṭha' (\"having ten necks\").\n\nMany Sanskrit loanwords are also found in Austronesian languages, such as Javanese particularly the old form from which nearly half the vocabulary is derived from the language. Other Austronesian languages, such as traditional Malay, modern Indonesian, also derive much of their vocabulary from Sanskrit, albeit to a lesser extent, with a large proportion of words being derived from Arabic. Similarly, Philippine languages such as Tagalog have many Sanskrit loanwords.\n\nA Sanskrit loanword encountered in many Southeast Asian languages is the word \"bhāṣā\", or spoken language, which is used to mean language in general, for example \"bahasa\" in Malay, Indonesian and Tausug, \"basa\" in Javanese, Sundanese, and Balinese, \"phasa\" in Thai and Lao, \"bhasa\" in Burmese, and \"phiesa\" in Khmer.\n\nThe utilization of Sanskrit has been prevalent in all aspects of life including legal purposes. Sanskrit terminology and vernacular appears in ancient courts to establish procedures that have been structured by Indian models such as a system composed of a code of laws. The concept of legislation demonstrated through codes of law and organizations particularly the idea of \"God King\" was embraced by numerous rulers of Southeast Asia. The rulers amid this time, for example, the Lin-I Dynasty of Vietnam once embraced the Sanskrit dialect and devoted sanctuaries to the Indian divinity Shiva. Many rulers following even viewed themselves as \"reincarnations or descendants\" of the Hindu gods. However once Buddhism began entering the nations, this practiced view was eventually altered.\n\nScripts in Sanskrit discovered during the early centuries of the Common Era are the earliest known forms of writing to have extended all the way to Southeast Asia. Its gradual impact ultimately resulted in its widespread domain as a means of dialect which evident in regions, from Bangladesh to Cambodia, Malaysia and Thailand and additionally a few of the larger Indonesian islands. In addition, alphabets from languages spoken in Burmese, Thai, Laos, and Cambodia are variations formed off of Indian ideals that have localized the language.\n\nThe utilization of Sanskrit has been prevalent in all aspects of life including legal purposes. Sanskrit terminology and vernacular appears in ancient courts to establish procedures that have been structured by Indian models such as a system composed of a code of laws. The concept of legislation demonstrated through codes of law and organizations particularly the idea of \"God King\" was embraced by numerous rulers of Southeast Asia. The rulers amid this time, for example, the Lin-I Dynasty of Vietnam once embraced the Sanskrit dialect and devoted sanctuaries to the Indian divinity, Shiva. Many rulers following even viewed themselves as \"reincarnations or descendants\" of the Hindu Gods. However, once Buddhism began entering the nations, this practiced view was eventually altered.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1996873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996873", "title": "Golden Years (song)", "text": "Golden Years (song)\n\n\"Golden Years\" is a song written and recorded by English singer-songwriter David Bowie. It was released in November 1975 as the lead single of his tenth studio album \"Station to Station\" (1976). Co-produced by Bowie and Harry Maslin, it was recorded in September 1975 at Cherokee Studios in Los Angeles. It was the first track completed during the sessions, a period when Bowie's cocaine addiction was at its peak. At one stage it was slated to be the album's title track. Musically, \"Golden Years\" is a funk and disco song that is more reminiscent of the music on his previous album \"Young Americans\" than the rest of its parent album. The song was a commercial success, peaking at No. 8 in the UK and No. 10 in the US. The song was played sporadically throughout Bowie's 1976 Isolar Tour but regularly on the Serious Moonlight, Sound+Vision and Mini Tours.\n\n\"Golden Years\" was the first track recorded for \"Station to Station\" in September 1975 at Cherokee Studios in Los Angeles. Regarding the recording, co-producer Harry Maslin recalled that the song was \"cut and finished very fast. We knew it was absolutely right within ten days. But the rest of the album took forever.\" At one stage it was slated to be the album's title track. Sources differ as to who the track was written for. According to authors Nicholas Pegg, David Buckley and Christopher Sandford, the track was supposedly written for Elvis Presley to cover, who turned it down. Bowie recalled that Presley had heard the demos and because both artists were signed to RCA Records at the time, Presley's manager Colonel Tom Parker thought that Bowie should write songs for Presley. Bowie stated that he had \"adored\" Presley and would have loved to work with him. Although the artists' office contacted each other, nothing ever came to fruition. Presley sent a note to Bowie saying, \"All the best, and have a great tour\"; Bowie kept the note for the rest of his life. Bowie's first wife Angie Bowie later claimed that the song was written for her, saying that he sang the track over the telephone to her, \"just the way, all those years before, he'd sung me [the \"Aladdin Sane\" track] \"The Prettiest Star\". It had a similar effect. I bought it.\" According to Sandford, Ava Cherry also claimed to have been the inspiration for the song.\n\nMusically, \"Golden Years\" is a funk and disco song. As the lead single of \"Station to Station\", the song is noted as musically different than the rest of its parent album. While \"Station to Station\" is commonly regarded as the musical bridge between the funk and soul of \"Young Americans\" to the experimental sound of his Berlin Trilogy, \"Golden Years\" is the only song on the album to showcase the similar funk sound of \"Young Americans\" compared to, in Pegg's words, \"the steelier musical landscape\" of \"Station to Station\". Pegg further comments that its American \"soul-pop\" roots are \"easily discernible\": he describes the main riff as \"owing a debt to\" the 1968 Cliff Nobles and Company song \"The Horse\" and the multi-tracked vocal refrain to 1958 single \"Happy Years\" by the Diamonds. The song is in the key of B major and begins with a \"simple two-chord\" riff (F–E), which Buckley believes hooks the listener in instantly. Doggett calls the riff \"reminiscent\", albeit \"in very different circumstances\", to the title track of \"Aladdin Sane\". According to Buckley, Bowie was looking to emulate something of the glitzy nostalgia of \"On Broadway\", which he was playing on piano in the studio when he came up with \"Golden Years\". Doggett writes: \"The magical ingredients were percussive: the rattling of sticks against the hi-hat cymbal from the start, the startling clack of woodblocks, the sudden drum fills.\" These elements combined \"channel\" the spirit of Elvis Presley in the verses, with a \"haughtier, more strident tone\" in the chorus.\n\n\"Golden Years\" was released on 21 November 1975 as the lead single to Bowie's tenth studio album \"Station to Station\" by RCA Victor (as RCA 2640/PB-10441) with the \"Young Americans\" track \"Can You Hear Me?\" as the B-side and a length of 3:27. It subsequently appeared as the second track on the album, between the title track and \"Word on a Wing\", with a longer length of 4:03. According to Pegg, the single version is \"essentially\" the album version with an earlier fade. Bowie allegedly got drunk to perform the song for the American TV show \"Soul Train\"; Bowie was the second white artist to appear on the program after Elton John did earlier in the year. The resultant video clip was used to promote the single, and assisted Bowie's continued commercial success in the US, where it charted for 16 weeks and reached No. 10 in early 1976. It achieved No. 8 in the UK, where it was \"hard on the heels\" of the chart-topping \"Space Oddity\" reissue, and No. 17 in Canada. The song was also a top ten hit in Ireland, the Netherlands and Sweden. As a digital download, it reached number four in the Hungarian singles chart in 2016.\n\n\"Golden Years\" was played sporadically by Bowie on his Isolar – 1976 Tour, if at all, but regularly on the Serious Moonlight, Sound+Vision and Mini Tours. Live versions from the Serious Moonlight and Mini Tours appear on \"\"Serious Moonlight\"\" (1983) and \"Glastonbury 2000\" (2018). The song was used as the theme song of Stephen King's \"Golden Years\", and in the pilot of the CBS series \"Swingtown\". The song was also used in the 2001 film \"A Knight's Tale\", as well as in Hank Green's 2018 novel \"An Absolutely Remarkable Thing\".\n\nAll songs written by David Bowie.\n\n\n\nAn updated single of \"Golden Years\" was released in 2011 to coincide with the re-release of \"Station to Station\". Four new remixes were provided by DJs from radio station KCRW in California.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1996874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996874", "title": "Dame Alice Owen's School", "text": "Dame Alice Owen's School\n\nDame Alice Owen's School (also known as Dame Alice Owen's or Owen's; referred to by the acronym DAOS) is an 11–18 mixed, partially selective secondary school and sixth form with academy status in Potters Bar, Hertfordshire, England. It is part of the Dame Alice Owen's Foundation; its trustees are the Worshipful Company of Brewers.\n\nIt was founded in Islington as a boys' school for 30 students in 1613, which makes it one of the oldest schools in the United Kingdom, and is named after its founder, the 17th-century philanthropist Alice Owen. Over time, the boys' school expanded. A girls' school was built in 1886, and the two schools were merged in 1973; the mixed school moved to its current location at Dugdale Hill Lane in Potters Bar in stages between 1973 and 1976.\n\nThe school is one of the highest performing state schools in England and Wales in terms of the General Certificate of Secondary Education (GCSE) and GCE Advanced Level (A-Level) results, and is widely considered one of the best schools in the UK. In 2016, it was named the State Secondary School of the Year by \"The Sunday Times\" in the newspaper's rankings for the 2016–17 school year, and \"Tatler\" and \"The Daily Telegraph\" have also strongly praised it.\n\nDame Alice Owen's School was founded in 1613 by the English philanthropist Alice Owen (née Wilkes; 1547 – 26 November 1613). Owen decided to found a school to thank God for saving her when she was a child after she narrowly avoided being struck by an arrow, which passed through her hat, in the fields in Islington; the exact nature of this event is disputed.\n\nThe death of her third husband (the judge Thomas Owen) in 1598 caused Alice Owen to be free to carry out her plans. On 6 June 1608, she acquired a licence to purchase of ground in Islington and Clerkenwell, on which to build a hospital for 10 poor widows, and to confer power over that land (and some other land; in total, it was worth £40 a year) to the Worshipful Company of Brewers (her first husband, Henry Robinson, had been a member of the company). The site had been called the \"Hermitage\" field. In 1609, Owen officially gave authority over the charity she had founded to the Brewers' Company; by indentures dated in that year, she had given the company an annual payment of £25 to support her almshouses.\n\nAfter founding the almshouses in 1608 on the site, which was on the east side of St John Street, in 1610 Owen obtained the right to build a school and chapel in the same location. It was built between 1610 and 1612 and probably opened in 1613. Three iron arrows were fixed into a gable in the building, to commemorate the time when she was almost hit by an arrow; Owen also erected a free chapel there. On 20 September 1613, she made rules for her school (and the almshouses); notably, the school was to take thirty boys – twenty-four from Islington and six from Clerkenwell – and be inspected by the Brewers' Company once a year.\n\nThe rules also stated that the school's headmaster was to be paid five pounds every three months and be given a house to live in for free; he was to teach writing, mathematics and bookkeeping. Her will (which was dated 10 June 1613), directed the yearly purchase of land worth £20 in order to pay the headmaster's salary. The first man to hold the position was William Leske, who held the position until 1614 before resigning. Samuel Lewis Jnr writes that according to John Stow's \"Survey of London\", building the school and almshouses, as well as purchasing the land, cost £1776. To provide her charity with an income, the executor of Owen's will, Sir Thomas Rich, bought a farm in Orsett in Essex for £22.\n\nThe school has maintained many traditions from the time of its founding, such as the giving of a small amount of \"beer money\" to every pupil. This is a reminder of the school's long-standing close association with the brewing industry and the Worshipful Company of Brewers; pupils in Year Seven receive a special five-pound coin in a ceremony at Brewers' Hall in London, while the older years are given money at school by the Master of the Worshipful Company of Brewers on the last day of the academic year. Arrows feature prominently on the school's crest, which is in itself largely identical to the crest of the Worshipful Company of Brewers; other motifs on the school's logo include barrels and hops.\n\nWilliam Smith, who held the position of headmaster between 1666 and 1678, was dismissed because of alleged involvement in the Popish Plot. In 1731, Thomas Dennett, who had been the headmaster since 1717, ran away.\n\nIn 1818, the Charity Commission found that there were 55 boys at the school – the 30 specified by Owen, and 25 private pupils (several of whom boarded with Alexander Balfour, who served as headmaster from 1791 to 1824). Only the private pupils learned French and Latin (the other children had the opportunity to learn Latin, but none took it). At the time, the headmaster earned £30 a year. The value of the trust estates in Islington and Clerkenwell had grown to £900 a year by 1830. The school was rebuilt and a new almshouse was built in 1840 or 1841 on a new site in Owen Street, Islington (near their previous location), at a cost of about £6,000, because the old buildings had fallen into disrepair; the original buildings were demolished. The school was expanded when new classrooms were built in 1846 and 1860. In 1842, there were 85 boys attending the school – one-fifth (17) of them were from Clerkenwell while four-fifths (68) were from Islington – though the new school was intended to be for 120 boys. That number of pupils had been reached by 1865, when there were 100 boys from Islington and 20 from Clerkenwell at the school (all aged between 7 and 14).\n\nA new project received royal assent on 14 August 1878; this scheme enabled the school to expand into two schools – one for 300 boys, and the other for that many girls. The almshouse was demolished so that a playground could be built (the former inhabitants of the almshouse received pensions). The front of the boys' school was rebuilt on a larger scale at this time. The girls' school was opened in Owen's Row in 1886; its first headmistress was Emily Armstrong.\n\nThe boys' school was expanded further in 1895–96 so that 420 boys could go there; a new wing was built, which included a library and science laboratories. In 1897, a memorial to Alice Owen (in the form of a statue) was commissioned; this statue is still located in the modern school. A building used for lunch as well as art and woodwork was built in 1904. During Robert Chomeley's time as headmaster (1909–27), the boys' school obtained playing fields in Oakleigh Park and he built several huts there, which were used for lessons. An assembly hall was added to the boys' school during his tenure; it was built in 1927.\n\nThe schools were evacuated to Bedford during the Second World War, in which the schools' buildings were badly damaged. The girls' school was mostly destroyed by bombing in 1940 and had to be rebuilt; on 15 October 1940, 143 people were sheltering in the basement when a parachute mine hit the building, causing a pipe to flood the basement and killing 109 of the occupants. (A memorial to the people who died in the bombing was unveiled in 2005 at City and Islington College, at the former site of Dame Alice Owen's School's playground). Temporary huts were initially used when the students returned in 1945; a new five-storey girls' school building was built between 1960 and 1963.\n\nDame Alice Owen's School achieved voluntary aided status in 1951. There were over 600 boys at the boys' school in 1963, of whom more than 100 were students in the school's sixth form. That year, the boys' and girls' schools celebrated the 350th anniversary of the school; this involved various celebrations, including sporting events and concerts. The first official history of the school, by Reg Dare, was also published that year; there was also a Thanksgiving Service at St Paul's Cathedral on 30 April. A new building, part of the girls' school, was opened in October. Funds were raised to purchase a residential centre for both of the schools to use. Pupils stayed there for periods of several days and learned there; the centre, which was located outside London, was called Harrock House. It opened in May 1965, and closed in 1985 due to the cost of maintaining it.\n\nThe boys' school was located in Goswell Road. The girls' schools was also located there and faced the boys' school across the boys' playground.\n\nThe two schools merged in 1973 and were run as a mixed school while pupils were transferred in stages to the school's current location in Potters Bar in Hertfordshire between 1973 and July 1976. Reasons for the move included the restrictions of the site in Islington and a decline in the number of pupils in the area. The school was opened on 8 June 1976 by Princess Anne.\n\nThe former boys' school building has now been demolished; the girls' school building is now part of City and Islington College.\n\nOn 2 November 1990, the Duke of Edinburgh visited the school and opened a new building for physics and information technology that also houses a library, called the Edinburgh Centre. On 25 November 1997, the Princess Anne opened a building for the sixth form and modern languages called the Bertrand Ryan Centre. Five other buildings have been added to the site since 1976.\n\nIn 2011, the school became an academy; it had previously been a voluntary-aided school. In June 2018, construction started on a new teaching block to replace the old one, which Hannah Nemko, the headteacher, described as \"no longer truly fit for purpose\"; the building was to cost approximately £5 million, with the funding coming from the UK government and the Brewers' Company. In January 2019, the school received a grant of £50 000 from Hertsmere Borough Council to refurbish an astroturf sports pitch.\n\nTo commemorate the school's quatercentenary in 2013, the school established a 400th Anniversary Committee chaired by the musician Gary Kemp (with Peter Martin, the chair of governors, as vice-chairman), which organised several events. Kemp is an Old Owenian (former student) who met some of the future members of his band Spandau Ballet at the school. Construction was set to start in February 2013. By November 2013, more than £840 000 had been raised. In 2014, Lord Winston unveiled the new block. Staff and volunteers made a cake at the school, large enough for all the staff, students and parents to share; this marked the beginning of the celebrations. The film director and producer Sir Alan Parker (also an Old Owenian) directed a Celebration Concert at the Royal Albert Hall in April 2013, (it was planned to take place on 23 April 2013) featuring performances by various groups of students, as well as members of Spandau Ballet (including Kemp). A Thanksgiving Service was held at St Paul's Cathedral on 30 April 2013; it was meant to be held a week after the concert. In November, the train company First Capital Connect named one of its trains \"Dame Alice Owens 400 years of learning\" to honour the occasion.\n\nThe programme of various sporting occasions, a drama production and a ball at the school (on 13 July 2013) ended with a carol service at St Albans Cathedral on 16 December 2013. Old Owenians could keep in touch with what was happening by joining the school's 400th anniversary email list, to which over 3 300 alumni signed up (they received quarterly newsletters).\n\nIn conjunction with the celebrations, a 400th Anniversary Appeal was set up to raise £1 million towards a new science building for the school. It was launched in February 2011 by Lord Robert Winston. Kemp was the chairman of the appeal; he said that the school needs assistance \"to support ... the scientists of tomorrow\". The total cost of the building was predicted to be £6 million. The new block was unveiled by Lord Winston in 2014 (some of the funding came from the appeal).\n\nThe Dame Alice Owen's Foundation supports the school, and its trustees are the Worshipful Company of Brewers. The school's governing body consists of thirteen Foundation Governors (whose appointments are endorsed by the Worshipful Company of Brewers, since they are trustees of the Dame Alice Owen's Foundation), two elected teacher-governors, the headteacher and three elected parent-governors. The Governing Body meets once in every school term, and will hold additional meetings if necessary. , the Chair of Governors is Peter Martin.\n\nThe school is partially selective by means of an entrance examination; roughly a third of pupils are selected based on academic ability, while others are chosen because of musical skills, having a sibling at the school or living in the school's catchment area (which includes Islington, from where 20 pupils are admitted yearly because the school was previously located there). 200 pupils are admitted to Year 7 annually; this is the school's published admission number. Sixty-five children enter through the entrance examinations each year (there are two, which take place on different days – the first tests verbal reasoning and English and the second tests mathematics) and 10 through a musical aptitude test. There are 22 places available for children who live close to the school; this criterion was introduced in 2008 to give priority to those who live locally. There were 38 applications under this criterion in 2018. \"Tatler\" have described the admissions procedure as \"mind-boggling\". The school also allows external applications to its sixth form.\n\nStudents are drawn from a wide area, and the school is heavily oversubscribed. In 2013, it received 665 more applications than there were places. , fewer than a quarter of applications succeed; ten people apply for every place offered to external candidates to the sixth form. In 2018, the school received 819 applications, of which 359 had the school as their first preference.\n\nIn 2006, Alan Davison, the school's headteacher at that time, strongly opposed a plan by the Department for Education and Skills to ban partially selective schools from prioritising applications from the siblings of students attending the school, saying that the proposal threatened the school's \"family-friendly atmosphere\", and also stated that potentially affected schools were obtaining legal advice (the government never implemented the rule).\n\nThe school has reported that many families buy or rent houses near the school that they only live in for a short time in order to obtain a place at the school for their children, then move back to their original homes soon after. The school believed that this practice disadvantages families that have lived in the area for a long time. According to the school, half of the pupils who had received places due to proximity to the school in 2008 had moved back to previous homes which were further from the school by 2010. The school introduced several rules to combat this problem; one requirement is that families who retain a previous home within of the school must live in the new home for 36 months before applying to the school, else the new address will only be treated as a temporary address. This was increased from 24 months for the 2018 and 2019 admissions. In 2018, a parent objected to this change on the grounds that it disadvantaged families who did not want to sell their former homes, arguing that the concerns about families moving away from the area after obtaining a place were not applicable to him and that school made the change without thinking of people in his situation. The Office of the Schools Adjudicator, which works with the Department for Education, did not uphold the objection; it ruled that the arrangements did not affect a particular racial or social group and that they were fair. In 2013, Davison criticised Hertfordshire County Council and the British government for their alleged lack of response to fraudulent applications for the places at the school available based on residence (it was claimed that in order to qualify, people were renting or buying houses near the school without living in them). He said \"[p]eople will do anything to [obtain a place at the school]\".\n\nIn terms of exam results, the school is one of the highest-ranked state schools in the country, with over 95% of students receiving 10 A*–C grades in their GCSE exams. The school has appeared in the 2014 \"Tatler State Schools Guide\", where it was highly praised and described as a \"golden ticket for Islington parents\". In 2016, it was named the State Secondary School of the Year by \"The Sunday Times\" in the newspaper's rankings for the 2016–17 school year; it was the first school that was not a grammar school to win the award (which began in 1999). That year, it was also described as one of the ten best comprehensive schools in the UK by \"The Daily Telegraph\". In 2018, \"The Sunday Times\" named the school its Regional State Secondary School of the Year 2019 for the Southeast (of England). In 2009, the Office for Standards in Education, Children's Services and Skills (Ofsted) rated it outstanding.\n\nAround 90 per cent of students enter higher education, with many going to some of the best British universities: in 2016, 14 successfully applied to the University of Oxford or the University of Cambridge (collectively called Oxbridge). the school's record number of successful applications to these institutions in a single year is 30, which was achieved in 2013; two-thirds of students go on to Russell Group universities. In a 2016 study, Sol Gamsu, a PhD student at King's College London, found that Dame Alice Owen's School acts as a \"de facto feeder school\" for Oxbridge. According to a briefing paper about higher education published in 2019 by the House of Commons Library, 10.5 per cent of the school's pupils who go on to university go to Oxbridge; by this measure, it is the best performing state comprehensive school in the UK.\n\nThe school had its first two students attain places on the prestigious Prime Minister's Global Fellowship programme in 2009.\n\nDame Alice Owen's School has been a Science Specialist School since 2007 and 43 per cent of students go on to study science at world-class universities. The school holds regular lectures, organised by its science society, for students; worked with Cancer Research last year on a skin cancer project and is building relationships with Imperial College London. The school aimed to attract additional government funding, with over £250 000 already raised , to support the construction of a new science block, which finished in 2014.\n\nIn 2018, 49.9% of General Certificate of Secondary Education (GCSE) entries were graded 8–9 (equivalent to an A*) and 69.4% were graded 7–9 (A*–A); five students received only top grades. At GCE Advanced Level (A-Level), 29% of entries were graded A*, 84.8% were A*–B and 95.1% were A*–C. 28 students went on to study at Oxford or Cambridge University.\n\nIn 2016, 94% of all Year 11 students secured 5 A*–C grades including English and Maths in their GCSE exams, which was significantly higher than the average for the school's local education authority (80.2%) and the average for England (53.5%); 68.6% of entries were given grades of A* or A. The school's A-Level results were described by the school's headteacher, Hannah Nemko as \"fantastic\"; 94.1% of grades were A*–C, with 82.1% being A*–B and 55% being A*–A.\n\nAt A-Level, 55.5% of grades were A*–A, 80.7% were A*–B and 93.8% were A*–C in 2015. 22.9% of grades were A*'s, and 16 pupils secured university places at Oxbridge.\n\nAt GCSE, 94.2% of pupils achieved 5 A*–C grades including English and maths and 96.1% of pupils received 5 A*–C grades without English and maths. 64.5% of entries were graded A*–A (at that time, the school had only performed better than that once), and many pupils only received A* grades. A Level results for that year were also record-breaking.\n\nIn 2011, 93% of all Year 11 students secured 5 A*–C grades including English and Maths. 96% of all Year 11 students secured 5 A*–C grades without English and Maths. 68.1% of all entries were graded A or A* and 32% were graded A*. 82.1% of all grades awarded were A*–B. There was an upward trend with the new A* grade, with 21.3% of all entries being awarded an A*, 32% were awarded an A, making the A* and A total 52.3%. 64 of all students secured straight A*s and As. 99.4% of all entries secured a pass grade. 20 students with offers confirmed their Oxbridge places and the majority of students secured places at their first choice of university. AS results showed a new school record with 54.1% being graded A (compared to 44.1% in 2010) and 78% being graded A or B (68.9% in 2010).\n\nDame Alice Owen's School offers a wide range of extracurricular activities for the pupils that attend it. Many pupils take part in the Duke of Edinburgh Award, including around 30 annually who do the Gold Award, the highest level. and school trips, for example to the Galapagos Islands, Costa Rica or CERN (the European Organization for Nuclear Research, which is based in Switzerland). There are also opportunities for students to visit the school's partner school in Tanzania.\n\nThe school offers a wide range of sports for students, including football, gymnastics, rugby and athletics; some pupils represent the school at the national level. Music is also important; the school has numerous bands, orchestras and choirs, and hundreds of pupils learn to play musical instruments at school. Drama and art are also a feature of the learning experience; there is more than one drama production each year. Clubs and societies include chess and debating. The school also has a student-produced magazine, called \"The Arrow\", which was first published in 1899 and is now published once a year.\n\nDame Alice Owen's School is situated in the south of Potters Bar, just north of the M25 motorway and near South Mimms services (which are to the west of the school). Its grounds have an area of and include a lake and large playing fields. In 2014, Alice Rose, writing for \"Tatler\" magazine, praised its \"excellent facilities\" and \"smart campus\"; in 2016, the journalist Sue Leonard, writing in \"The Times\", said that the school \"offers...facilities many other secondary schools can only envy\", and described its sports grounds as \"enormous\".\n\nStudents at the school come from a wide area, and the school is served by six bus routes. Four of these are London bus routes contracted by Transport for London (TfL): the 313, 626, 692 and 699 (Arriva London operates the 313 route, while Sullivan Buses operates the other routes). Two other bus routes, namely the 242, which is operated by Metroline, and the 610 (operated by Uno) also stop at the school. More than 200 students also travel to school by train daily via Potters Bar railway station.\nThe school has had many notable former pupils, who are referred to as \"Old Owenians\". Those for careers in the entertainment industry include Fiona Wade, an actress in the soap opera \"Emmerdale\"; Dame Beryl Grey, a ballerina; Jessica Tandy, an Academy Award-winning actress; Gary Kemp, the lead guitarist and songwriter for the band Spandau Ballet, and Sir Alan Parker, a film director.\n\nSportsperson alumni include the gymnast Gabrielle Jupp; Jodie Williams, a sprinter; Paul Robinson, a professional footballer, and Dame Mary Glen-Haig, a gold-medal-winning fencer at the Commonwealth Games. Old Owenians notable for their achievements in science are Frederick Gugenheim Gregory, a botanist who won the Royal Medal; Leslie Reginald Cox, a palaeontologist, and the chemist Leslie Orgel, who is known for inventing Orgel's rules. The Marxist journalist and historian Andrew Rothstein also went to the school.\n\nTwo former Labour MPs have attended the school: Ronald Chamberlain, MP for Norwood, and Millie Miller, leader of Camden Council and MP for Ilford North. The politician Alan Amos, who was the Conservative MP for Hexham, taught at the school between 1976 and 1984.\n\nThe modern and former boys' and girls' schools have had many headteachers:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1996875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996875", "title": "Torfhildur Þorsteinsdóttir", "text": "Torfhildur Þorsteinsdóttir\n\nTorfhildur Þorsteinsdóttir, also known as Torfhildur Hólm (2 February 1845 – 14 November 1918) was an Icelandic author who lived for many years in Canada. She was perhaps the first Icelander to make a living as an author, and is frequently cited as the first Icelandic woman novelist.\n\nTorfhildur was born at in Skaftafellssýsla (now in Austur-Skaftafellssýsla), where her father, Þorsteinn Einarson, was a clergyman. She went to Reykjavík at age 17 and studied there and in Copenhagen and worked as a private teacher before marrying Jakob Hólm when she was 29. He died a year later and in 1876 she emigrated to Canada, where she lived in New Iceland and Winnipeg for 13 years. After working as a teacher for a number of years, she returned to Iceland in 1889 and two years later was granted a writer's pension by the Althing, the first woman to receive such artistic support; there was disagreement about the appropriateness of the award and it was reduced and ultimately made part of her widow's pension. She died in Reykjavík during the worldwide pandemic of Spanish flu of 1918–1920.\n\nShe published her first short story in 1879 in \"Framfari\", the first Icelandic newspaper published in North America. Her first novel, \"Brynjolfur Sveinsson biskup\", was published in Reykjavík in 1882 and was both the first novel and first work by a female author to be formally printed in Iceland. \"Elding\" (1889) is a historical novel. Some of her work appeared in a Danish periodical published in Chicago, \"Illustrered Familjeblad\". After her return to Iceland she edited two literary journals, \"Draupnir\" and \"Dvöl\", in which her short fiction and two later novels appeared, and a children's magazine, \"Tíbrá\". The folk tales she collected from Icelanders in Canada during her first few years there were published in 1962, and point, according to folklorist David Buchan, to an interesting difference between the Icelandic and the Faroese traditions; in the latter the ballad tradition is one of male public performance, where the Icelandic tradition is found in the female, domestic sphere.\n\nHer writing shows both romantic and realist traits; some of her short stories are fables and allegories, but others deal with contemporary life, with the importance of women's education as a recurring theme. As a historical novelist, she is credited with giving the genre \"its most capable treatment\" among Icelandic authors.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1996882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996882", "title": "List of high schools in Washington", "text": "List of high schools in Washington\n\nThis is a list of high schools in the state of Washington.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nPrivate Schools\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nNew Market Skills Center, Tumwater\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1996887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996887", "title": "Browns Park National Wildlife Refuge", "text": "Browns Park National Wildlife Refuge\n\nBrowns Park National Wildlife Refuge is a U.S. National Wildlife Refuge located in northwestern Colorado. It is located in Moffat County in the extreme northwestern corner of the state, in an isolated mountain valley of Browns Park on both sides of the Green River, approximately below Flaming Gorge Dam. Established in 1965, the refuge is managed by the United States Fish and Wildlife Service office in Maybell, Colorado. The refuge is approximately northwest of Maybell on State Highway 318. The refuge consists of bottomland and adjacent benchland. The western border of the refuge is the Colorado-Utah state line. The refuge is surrounded by adjacent lines of the Bureau of Land Management. The refuge contains the site of the former Fort Davy Crockett constructed in 1837 to protect trappers against attacks by Blackfoot Native Americans.\n\nThe acquisition of the refuge lands was approved by the Migratory Bird Conservation Commission on August 20, 1963 in order to develop and manage waterfowl habitat in that portion of Browns Park within the state of Colorado. The private land was purchased with funds from the Migratory Bird Hunting Stamp Act. The first tract of private land was acquired on July 13, 1965. As of 2005, have been purchased at a cost of $622,976, have been withdrawn from public domain lands, and are leased from the state of Colorado (state school sections). There is one private inholding on the refuge, a tract of grassland and cottonwood groves located at the southeast end of the refuge.\n\nThe primary purpose of the refuge is to provide high quality nesting and migration habitat for the Great Basin Canada goose, ducks and other migratory birds. Before the construction of Flaming Gorge Dam in 1962, the Green River flooded annually, creating excellent waterfowl nesting, feeding and resting marshes in the backwater sloughs and old stream meanders. The dam stopped the flooding, eliminating much of this waterfowl habitat. Pumping from the Green River, along with water diverted from Beaver and Vermillion Creeks, now maintains nine marsh units comprising approximately . The river covers approximately along with sedimentary river bottomlands. Well vegetated grasslands interspersed with cottonwood, willows, salt cedar, greasewood and sage cover approximately . The remainder of the refuge () is alluvial benchlands and steep rocky mountain slopes. Elevations vary from above sea level.\n\nThe refuge is home to approximately 200 species of birds at various times of the year. Nesting birds in the refuge include mallards, redheads, teal, canvasbacks, other ducks, and Canada geese. About 300 goslings and 2,500 ducklings hatch annually. The waterfowl population swells by thousands during the spring and fall migrations. Bald eagles frequent the refuge during the winter. Golden eagles and peregrine falcons are seen soaring over the refuge during spring and summer. Bird watching is available at several locations in habitats ranging from semi-arid sage brush to lush wetlands and cottonwood stands adjacent to the Green River.\n\nThe refuge is also home to mammal species such as deer, elk, pronghorn, and an occasional bighorn sheep, especially during moderate or severe winters. Moose are found in the wet, riparian areas during the spring, summer and fall. Deer and elk are commonly seen anywhere on the refuge during moderate to severe winters. River otter use the Green River and refuge wetlands year round.\n\n"}
{"id": "1996894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996894", "title": "Leymus", "text": "Leymus\n\nLeymus is a genus of plants in the grass family Poaceae (Gramineae). It is widespread across Europe, Asia, and the Americas.\n\n\nButterflies whose caterpillars feed on \"Leymus\" include:\n"}
{"id": "1996897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996897", "title": "Piedboeuf Brewery", "text": "Piedboeuf Brewery\n\nPiedboeuf Brewery () is a brewery in Jupille-sur-Meuse, Belgium. It is owned by Anheuser–Busch InBev. The main brand is Jupiler, the best selling beer in Belgium.\n\n\nAs part of the Anheuser–Busch InBev group, it also brews other beer, including Stella Artois, Leffe and Hoegaarden\n\n"}
{"id": "1996901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996901", "title": "Wild rye", "text": "Wild rye\n\nWild rye is a common name used for several grasses.\n\n\"Wild ryes\" belong to either of three genera:\n"}
{"id": "1996903", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996903", "title": "Cassiopeia A", "text": "Cassiopeia A\n\nCassiopeia A (Cas A) is a supernova remnant (SNR) in the constellation Cassiopeia and the brightest extrasolar radio source in the sky at frequencies above 1 GHz. The supernova occurred approximately away within the Milky Way. The expanding cloud of material left over from the supernova now appears approximately across from Earth's perspective. In wavelengths of visible light, it has been seen with amateur telescopes down to 234 mm (9.25 in) with filters.\n\nIt is estimated that light from the stellar explosion first reached Earth approximately 300 years ago, but there are no historical records of any sightings of the supernova that created the remnant. Since Cas A is circumpolar for mid-Northern latitudes, this is probably due to interstellar dust absorbing optical wavelength radiation before it reached Earth (although it is possible that it was recorded as a sixth magnitude star 3 Cassiopeiae by John Flamsteed on 16 August 1680). Possible explanations lean toward the idea that the source star was unusually massive and had previously ejected much of its outer layers. These outer layers would have cloaked the star and re-absorbed much of the light released as the inner star collapsed.\n\nCas A was among the first discrete astronomical radio sources found. Its discovery was reported in 1948 by Martin Ryle and Francis Graham-Smith, astronomers at Cambridge, based on observations with the Long Michelson Interferometer. The optical component was first identified in 1950. Cas A is 3C461 in the \"Third Cambridge Catalogue of Radio Sources\" and G111.7-2.1 in the \"Green Catalog of Supernova Remnants\".\n\nCalculations working back from the currently observed expansion point to an explosion that would have become visible on Earth around 1667. Astronomer William Ashworth and others have suggested that the Astronomer Royal John Flamsteed may have inadvertently observed the supernova on 16 August 1680, when he catalogued a star near its position. Another suggestion from recent cross-disciplinary research is that the supernova was the mythical \"noon day star\", observed in 1630, that heralded the birth of Charles II, the future monarch of Great Britain. At any rate, no supernova occurring within the Milky Way has been visible to the naked eye from Earth since.\n\nThe expansion shell has a temperature of around 30 million K, and is expanding at 4000−6000 km/s.\n\nObservations of the exploded star through the Hubble telescope have shown that, despite the original belief that the remnants were expanding in a uniform manner, there are high velocity outlying eject knots moving with transverse velocities of 5,500−14,500 km/s with the highest speeds occurring in two nearly opposing jets. When the view of the expanding star uses colors to differentiate materials of different chemical compositions, it shows that similar materials often remain gathered together in the remnants of the explosion.\n\nCas A had a flux density of at 1 GHz in 1980. Because the supernova remnant is cooling, its flux density is decreasing. At 1 GHz, its flux density is decreasing at a rate of per year. This decrease means that, at frequencies below 1 GHz, Cas A is now less intense than Cygnus A. Cas A is still the brightest extrasolar radio source in the sky at frequencies above 1 GHz.\n\nIn 1999, the Chandra X-Ray Observatory found CXOU J232327.8+584842, a \"hot point-like source\" close to the center of the nebula that is the neutron star remnant left by the explosion.\n\nAlthough Cas X-1 (or Cas XR-1), the apparent first X-ray source in the constellation Cassiopeia was not detected during the 16 June 1964, Aerobee sounding rocket flight, it was considered as a possible source. Cas A was scanned during another Aerobee rocket flight of 1 October 1964, but no significant X-ray flux above background was associated with the position. Cas XR-1 was discovered by an Aerobee rocket flight on 25 April 1965, at RA Dec . Cas X-1 is Cas A, a Type II SNR at RA Dec .\nThe designations Cassiopeia X-1, Cas XR-1, Cas X-1 are no longer used, but the X-ray source is Cas A (SNR G111.7-02.1) at 2U 2321+58.\n\nIn 2005 an infrared echo of the Cassiopeia A explosion was observed on nearby gas clouds using Spitzer Space Telescope. The infrared echo was also seen by IRAS and studied with the Infrared Spectrograph. Previously it was suspected that a flare in 1950 from a central pulsar could be responsible for the infrared echo. With the new data it was concluded that this is unlikely the case and that the infrared echo was caused by thermal emission by dust, which was heated by the radiative output of the supernova during the shock breakout. The infrared echo is accompanied by a scattered light echo. The recorded spectrum of the optical light echo proved the supernova was of Type IIb, meaning it resulted from the internal collapse and violent explosion of a massive star, most probably a red supergiant with a helium core which had lost almost all of its hydrogen envelope. This was the first observation of the light echo of a supernova whose explosion had not been directly observed which opens up the possibility of studying and reconstructing past astronomical events. In 2011 a study used spectra from different positions of the light echo to confirm that the Cassiopeia A supernova was asymmetric.\n\nIn 2013, astronomers detected phosphorus in Cassiopeia A, which confirmed that this element is produced in supernovae through supernova nucleosynthesis. The phosphorus-to-iron ratio in material from the supernova remnant could be up to 100 times higher than in the Milky Way in general.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1996913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996913", "title": "LATAM Perú", "text": "LATAM Perú\n\nLATAM Perú, formerly LAN Perú S.A. is an airline based in Lima, Peru. It is a subsidiary of LATAM Airlines Group (), which owns 49% of the airline. It operates scheduled domestic and international services. Its main hub is Jorge Chávez International Airport. LATAM Perú is the dominant airline in Peru, controlling 73.4% of the domestic market.\n\nThe airline was established in July 1998 in Lima by the entrepreneurs Mr. Boris Hirmas Rubio, Lorenzo Sousa Debarbieri, Cristian Said and Dr Javier Rodriguez Larrain. Operations began on July 2, 1999 with domestic services from Jorge Chávez International Airport to Alejandro Velasco Astete International Airport, Cusco and Rodriguez Ballon International Airport, Arequipa. Its launch marked the reappearance of a major national airline in Peru after the demise of Aeroperú, Faucett Perú and others. An international service to Miami International Airport was added on November 15, 1999. It became a subsidiary of LAN Airlines in September 2002, owned by LAN Airlines (49%), ER Larraín (30%) and Inversiones Aéreas (21%) and has 1,500 employees.\n\nIn 2004 it was incorporated into LAN Airlines holding with the change of the name of the parent company.\n\nIn 2008 the airline transported about 3.5 million passengers, with 2.9 million in the domestic market.\n\nIn October 2009, the airline received authorization to provide aircraft maintenance services.\n\nLATAM Perú has codeshare agreements with the following airlines:\n\nThe LATAM Perú fleet consists of the following aircraft (as of October 2019):\n\nLATAMPASS is LATAM Perú's Frequent Flyer Program, shared with the parent company LATAM Airlines. There are currently over two million members in Chile, Argentina, Peru, Ecuador, Canada and the United States.\n\nThe LATAMPASS Program has four membership categories:\n"}
{"id": "1996916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996916", "title": "Silene acaulis", "text": "Silene acaulis\n\nSilene acaulis, known as moss campion or cushion pink, is a small mountain-dwelling wildflower that is common all over the high arctic and tundra in the higher mountains of Eurasia and North America, (south to the Alps, Carpathians, southern Siberia, Pyrenees, British Isles, Iceland, Faroe Islands, Rocky Mountains). It is an evergreen perennial flowering plant in the carnation family Caryophyllaceae.\n\nIt is also called the compass plant, since the flowers appear first on the south side of the cushion. (Various other plants also have this name.)\n\nMoss campion is a low, ground-hugging plant. It may seem densely matted and moss-like. The dense cushions are up to a foot or more in diameter. The plants are usually about 2\" tall but may be as high as 6\". The bright green leaves are narrow, arising from the base of the plant. The dead leaves from the previous season persist for years, and pink flowers are borne singly on short stalks that may be up to 1\" long, but are usually much shorter. It usually has pink flowers, though very rarely they may be white. The flowers are solitary and star-shaped. They are between 6 and 12 mm wide, with hermaphrodite flowers being larger than the female ones. Female flowers produce better quality seeds than hermaphrodites and male flowers produce better quality pollen than hermaphrodites. The cushions can change the gender of their flowers between years. Gender frequencies change with altitude, the frequency of female flowers increasing with higher elevation. They usually appear in June through August. The flowers are held by a calyx which is rather firm and thick. The flowers are female, male or hermaphrodites.\n\nThe sepals are joined together into a tube that conceals the bases of the petals, which are entire. The 10 stamens and 3 styles extend well beyond the throat of the flower.\nThis genus, circumpolar in its distribution, is closely related to carnations. The stems and leaves are very sticky and viscid, which may discourage ants and beetles from climbing on the plant. The variety \"exscapa\" has shorter flowering stems. The other variety \"subacaulescens,\" from Wyoming and Colorado, has pale pink flowers all summer.\n\nAlpine fellfield, on windswept rocky ridges and summits above treeline. It grows mainly in dry, gravelly localities, but also in damper places. With the cushions it produces its own, warmer climate with higher temperatures inside, when the sun shines.\n\nCommon all over the high arctic and the higher mountains of Eurasia and North America, (south to the Alps, Carpathians, southern Siberia, Pyrenees, British Isles, Iceland, Faroe Islands, Rocky Mountains, ). In the United States it inhabits Colorado, the Big Horn Mountains of Wyoming, the Wallowa Mountains of Oregon, the Olympics, the northern Cascades of Washington and Alaska.\n\nRange:\n\nThe seeds should be sown early in the spring time. Put the seedlings into separate pots, and it is recommended to let them winter in the greenhouse for their first winter season. To clean them rub the capsules through a screen. It's advised to plant them in the late spring or early summer because division takes place in the spring. They should be grown in well-drained soil with full sun. The climate can be cool.\n\nIn Maine it is possibly extirpated, and in New Hampshire \"Silene acaulis var. exscapa\" is threatened.\n\nPlants in Colorado have been estimated to reach 75 to 100 years in age, and Alaskan plants may reach 300 years. The oldest known Moss campion is 350 years old and has a diameter of two feet. The plant used to be used for children with colic. The raw root skin plants were consumed as a vegetable in Iceland and in Arctic regions.\n\nExperimental warming has been shown to start flowering substantially earlier than control cushions experiencing ambient temperature. Both the male and female phases developed faster in the OTCs and capsules (fruits) matured earlier, and the cushions produced more mature seeds and had a higher seed/ovule ratio contributing to an overall positive reproductive response. However, a study on four populations across a latitudinal gradient in North America showed that southern populations of moss campion had lower survival and recruitment, but higher individual growth rates than more northern populations. Furthermore, vital rates such as growth, survival, and fruits per area were shown to increase in moderately warmer years yet declined in the very warmest years, suggesting that a change in climate into warmer conditions or more frequent unusually warm summers may eventually lead to negative impacts. Another study showed that while the short term responses were positive, they turned negative on medium-term, suggestion that moss campion may be at risk in future global warming. Projections produced under different climate scenarios suggest that \"S. acaulis\" will likely face climate-driven fast decline in suitable areas on the British Isles and across North America, and that upward and northward shifts to occupy new climatically suitable areas are improbable in the future.\n\nThere is no listing that moss campion is toxic, though it does have saponins which, though toxic, are hard to absorb in the body. They can be broken down by thorough cooking. Its advised to not consume large amounts of this plant.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1996923", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996923", "title": "Tomás Gutiérrez Alea", "text": "Tomás Gutiérrez Alea\n\nTomás Gutiérrez Alea (; December 11, 1928 – April 16, 1996) was a Cuban filmmaker. He wrote and directed more than twenty features, documentaries, and short films, which are known for his sharp insight into post-Revolutionary Cuba, and possess a delicate balance between dedication to the revolution and criticism of the social, economic, and political conditions of the country.\n\nGutiérrez's work is representative of a cinematic movement occurring in the 1960s and 1970s known collectively as the New Latin American Cinema. This collective movement, also referred to by various writers by specific names such as “Third Cinema”, “Cine Libre”, and “Imperfect Cinema,” was concerned largely with the problems of neocolonialism and cultural identity. The movement rejected both the commercial perfection of the Hollywood style, and the auteur-oriented European art cinema, for a cinema created as a tool for political and social change. Due not in a small part to the filmmakers’ lack of resources, aesthetic was of secondary importance to cinema's social function. The movement's main goal was to create films in which the viewer became an active, self-aware participant in the discourse of the film. Viewers were presented with an analysis of a current problem within society that as of that time had no clear solution, hoping to make the audience aware of the problem and to leave the theater willing to become actors of social change.\n\nBorn in Havana on December 11, 1928, Gutiérrez was raised in an affluent, politically progressive family. After receiving his law degree from the University of Havana in 1951, Gutiérrez studied cinema at the \"Centro Sperimentale di Cinematografia\" in Rome, graduating in 1953. He was heavily influenced by Italian Neorealism, and created his first films in Rome with future Cuban colleague Julio García Espinosa, with whom he co-directed the documentary film \"El Mégano\" (\"The Charcoal Worker\").\n\nShortly after the success of the Cuban Revolution led by Fidel Castro in 1959, Gutiérrez, Espinosa, and several other young filmmakers founded the Instituto Cubano del Arte e Industria Cinematográficos (ICAIC). As ardent supporters of the Revolution, ICAIC was a filmmaker's collective which believed film to be the most important modern art form and the best medium to distribute revolutionary thought to the masses. Gutiérrez's \"Esta Tierra Nuestra\" (\"This Land Of Ours\"), was the first documentary made after the revolutionary victory. ICAIC focused mostly on documentaries and newsreels in its formative years, but eventually expanded into production of feature films, including Gutiérrez's early \"Historias de la Revolución\" (\"Stories Of The Revolution\") (1960), ICAIC's first fiction film, and \"Doce sillas\" (\"The Twelve Chairs\"), (1962). \"Stories of the Revolution\" was entered into the 2nd Moscow International Film Festival and \"The Twelve Chairs\" was entered into the 3rd Moscow International Film Festival.\n\nGutiérrez's first widely successful feature, \"Muerte de un burócrata\" (\"Death of a Bureaucrat\") (1966) introduces itself as a sort of homage to the history of cinematic comedy, and includes direct allusions to the work of Buster Keaton, Laurel & Hardy, Luis Buñuel, and many others. The story follows a young man's confounding plight through bureaucratic offices to have his dead uncle exhumed and then reburied after the body is buried with his identification card.\n\nHis next film, \"Memorias del Subdesarrollo\" (\"Memories of Underdevelopment\") (1968) was the first Cuban film to be shown in the United States since the Revolution. Based on Edmundo Desnoes’s novella \"Inconsolable Memories,\" the film is the memoir of a morally ambiguous bourgeois intellectual living in Havana in the period between the Bay of Pigs Invasion and the Cuban Missile Crisis. The protagonist is unwilling to take a political stance one way or another, yet continues to despise the country around him for being backwards and underdeveloped. His life eventually fades into nothingness, becoming a personality which has no use in this new Cuba.\n\nIn a self-reflexive cameo appearance, Gutiérrez calls the film a “collage…with a little bit of everything”. Gutiérrez uses a dizzying array of materials and filmic styles in \"Memories\", from documentary-style narrative sequences which use long unbroken shots taken from handheld cameras to agitational montage sequences reminiscent of the films of early Soviet filmmakers such as Sergei Eisenstein. \"Memories\" makes use of various types of media including direct documentary footage shot, still photos, archive and newsreel footage, clips of Hollywood films, and recorded speeches by Fidel Castro and John F. Kennedy, to create a seemingly disarticulated film language that is in direct contrast to the straightforward Hollywood style.\n\nAlthough criticism of the Revolution and Cuban society was at the heart of not only \"Memories\", but all of Gutiérrez's works, Gutiérrez continued to be a dedicated supporter of Cuban Socialism. But his works could hardly be described as propaganda either. Gutiérrez described the motivation for his contradictory approach by saying: “…cinema provides an active and mobilizing element, which stimulates participation in the revolutionary process. Then, it is not sufficient to have a moralizing cinema based on harangue and exhortation. We need a cinema that promotes and develops a critical attitude. But how to criticize and at the same time strengthen the reality in which we are immersed?”\n\nCommenting on his style, Gutiérrez called himself \"a man who makes criticism inside the revolution, who wants to ameliorate the process, to perfect it, but not to destroy it\".\n\nIn the following decades, Gutiérrez divided his time between making his own films and mentoring promising young filmmakers through ICAIC.\n\nIn 1972 and 1976, respectively, Gutiérrez completed two historical feature films, \"Una pelea cubana contra los demonios\" (\"A Cuban Fight Against the Demons\") and \"La última cena\" (\"The Last Supper\"). Both set in Spanish colonial Cuba, the films study contradictions and hypocrisy in Cuba's past of imperialism, religion, and slavery.\n\n\"Hasta cierto punto\" (\"Up to a Certain Point\") (ez's wife, Mirta Ibarra.) The film underwent some censorship and remains to this day considered by Cuban critics one of his lesser works, though it is still highly regarded. The director himself said jokingly that the film was only successful \"up to a certain point\"\n\nIn the early 1990s, Gutiérrez fell into ill health, forcing him to co-direct his last two films with his friend Juan Carlos Tabío. The first, \"Fresa y Chocolate\" (\"Strawberry and Chocolate\") (1993) became the first Cuban film to be nominated for the Academy Award for Best Foreign Film. The film's story centers on the oft conflictory relationship between a committed Marxist student and a flamboyantly gay artist. Gutiérrez's final film, \"Guantanamera\", (1994) uses traditional elements such as an ensemble cast and romantic comedy to take a more subtle approach to Gutiérrez's old targets: underdevelopment and bureaucracy. The film won the Silver Bear - Special Jury Prize at the 44th Berlin International Film Festival.\n\nTitón, as he was known to his friends, died in Havana on April 16, 1996, at age 67. He is buried in the Colon Cemetery, Havana.\n\nThree of Gutiérrez's films—\"Death of a Bureaucrat\", \"Una Pelea Cubana contra los Demonios\", and \"Los Sobrevivientes\"—were preserved by the Academy Film Archive in 2017 and 2019.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1996924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996924", "title": "Crown of Napoleon", "text": "Crown of Napoleon\n\nThe Crown of Napoleon was a coronation crown manufactured for Napoleon and used in his coronation as Emperor of the French on December 2, 1804. Napoleon called this crown the \"Crown of Charlemagne\", which was the name of the ancient royal coronation crown of France that had been destroyed during the French Revolution. This name allowed Napoleon to compare himself to the famed mediaeval monarch Charlemagne, King of the Franks and Holy Roman Emperor.\n\nThe French Revolution of the 1790s had led to the destruction of most of the ancient French Crown Jewels, along with the eventual abolition of the French monarchy and the execution of King Louis XVI and Queen Marie Antoinette.\nWhen Napoleon declared himself Emperor of the French a decade later, he decided to create new imperial regalia, the centerpiece of which was his \"Charlemagne crown\".\n\nIn the coronation itself, which took place not in the traditional location of French royal coronations, the Cathedral in Reims, but in Notre Dame in Paris, he actually used two crowns. Initially, he placed a laurel crown of the Roman emperors on his own head. Afterward, he briefly placed the imperial Charlemagne crown on his head, then touched it to the head of his empress, Josephine.\n\nAs was the norm with European crowns, Napoleon's crown is made up of eight half-arches. They are set with shell cameos and carved carnelians which meet at a golden globe, on top of which is placed a cross. \nThe crown itself is mock mediaeval in style, reliant totally on gold and metallic decoration and devoid of the major covering with diamonds and jewels fashionable in crowns made later in the 19th century.\n\nThe \"Crown of Napoleon\" was used until his second overthrow in 1815. King Louis XVIII, brother of Louis XVI, was installed on the throne as King of France following Napoleon's overthrow. In contrast both to his brother and to Napoleon, the new king opted not to have a coronation. When his brother, Charles X became king in 1824, he reinstated the traditional monarchical coronation in Reims and was crowned using the remaining pre-revolutionary French royal crown, the Crown of Louis XV. No more French coronations, either imperial or royal, followed Charles X's overthrow in 1830. \n\nWhen Napoleon III proclaimed himself French emperor in 1852, he opted to neither have a coronation nor wear Napoleon I's crown. Nevertheless, a crown was created for Empress Eugénie, the Crown of Empress Eugénie.\n\nIn 1885, to impede any further attempts at royal or imperial restorations, the French National Assembly opted to sell most of the French Crown Jewels. Only a handful of crowns were kept for historic reasons, and they had their precious jewels replaced in them by decorated glass. Napoleon I's crown was one of the few kept. It is now on display in the Louvre museum in Paris. \n"}
{"id": "1996927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996927", "title": "Fudge (TV series)", "text": "Fudge (TV series)\n\nFudge is a 1995-1997 American children's television series based on a series of Judy Blume books about a young boy nicknamed Fudge. The series ran for two seasons (1995–1997), with 24 episodes following a telefilm adaptation of Blume's novel \"Fudge-a-Mania\", which aired on January 7, 1995 in primetime. \"Fudge\" premiered on ABC in January 1995, and switched to CBS for its second season. \"TV Guide\" twice listed \"Fudge\" as one of the Ten Best Shows for Children. The show was canceled in 1997. At the Seventeenth Annual Youth in Film Awards, the cast was nominated for a Young Actors Award, Best Performance by a Young Ensemble: Television. Nassira Nicola, who played Sheila Tubman, won for Best Performance by a Young Actress: TV Comedy Series.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1996940", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996940", "title": "Jean Gascon", "text": "Jean Gascon\n\nJean Gascon, (December 21, 1920 – April 13, 1988) was a Canadian opera director, actor, and administrator.\n\nOriginally bent on a career in medicine, Mr. Gascon abandoned it for the stage after considerable work with amateur groups in Montreal. A scholarship in 1946 from the Government of France enabled him to study dramatic art in Paris. He studied with Ludmilla Pitoëff. \n\nAfter returning to Canada in 1951, he co-founded Montreal's Theatre du Nouveau Monde and became its first Artistic Director. During this time, he also started a long association with the newly established Stratford Festival in 1956, playing the Constable of France in Henry V and directing three farces by Moliere. He returned to Stratford to direct Le malade imaginaire in 1958 and Othello in 1959. \n\nBetween 1960-63, he was founding Administrative Director of the National Theatre School of Canada and was awarded the Canadian Drama Award, the Prix Victor Dore. \n\nIn 1963 he returned to Stratford to direct \"The Comedy of Errors\", and then Le Bourgeois gentilhomme and The Marriage of Figaro the following season. He was awarded the Molson Prize in 1967. Then between 1968-74, he was artistic director of Stratford Festival of Canada. In 1977 he became theatre director of the National Arts Centre in Ottawa.\n\nMr. Gascon's career in the Canadian theatre as a bilingual actor and director achieved an impressive reputation. He gained honorary degrees from McGill and Bishop's Universities. He was also awarded the Order of Canada (in 1975), the Prix du Québec and the Royal Bank Award.\n\nAs an actor in both English and French languages, his credits include such noteworthy portrayals as Richard in \"Richard II\", and the Captain in \"Dance of Death\".\n\nHe was the French/Indian \"Batise\" in the 1970 movie \"A Man Called Horse\" and was in a film in 1988 called À corps perdu (\"Straight for the Heart\").\n\nGascon died of a heart attack in 1988 in Stratford, Ontario.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1996944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996944", "title": "Bengeo", "text": "Bengeo\n\nBengeo is a suburb and former village on the northwest edge of the county town of Hertford in Hertfordshire, England. It is an electoral ward of Hertford.\n\nBengeo is on a rise between the River Beane and River Rib overlooking Hartham Common. Its toponym is derived from an Old English name meaning spur or ridge over the River Beane. The Domesday Book of 1086 records it as \"Belingehou\". It evolved through forms including \"Beneggho\" and \"Beningho\" in the 13th century, \"Bengeho\" in the 15th century and \"Benjow\" in the 16th century before reaching its current form.\n\nSee map of Bengeo.\n\nOther than the south east corner which adjoins Hertford, Bengeo is mostly surrounded by countryside. Informally (the terms having no official status) Bengeo consists of \"Upper\" and \"Lower\" Bengeo; Upper Bengeo is the area at the top of \"Port Hill\" leading out of Hertford town centre, while Lower Bengeo is the area on the side of the hill and centred on \"Byde Street\". On an approximate north-south trajectory Bengeo is bisected by the B158, known as \"Port Hill\" as it leaves Hertford and climbs the hill to Upper Bengeo and then as \"Bengeo Street\" as it continues through, and then out of, Bengeo to the north. Leaving \"Port Hill\" to the east runs \"The Warren\", an ancient footpath along the edge of the \"River Beane\" and \"Hartham Common\" leading to the ancient church of St Leonard.\n\nBengeo has various of its own amenities including a Post Office, local shops, several public houses, two veterinary practices, a number of sports teams, two churches (see below) and a Plymouth Brethren Meeting Room. There are two State primary schools, Mill Mead Primary School in \"Port Vale\" in Lower Bengeo close to Hertford and, at the opposite end of Bengeo on the north end of \"The Avenue\", Bengeo Primary School; on the east side is Duncombe School, an independent preparatory school.\n\nThe Church of England parish church of St Leonard, Bengeo, is a 12th-century Norman building and the oldest building in Hertford. It was the parish church of Bengeo until 1855, when it was succeeded by the new Holy Trinity parish church designed by Benjamin Ferrey. St. Leonard's is still used for regular Sunday services in summer months, as well as hosting exhibitions and concerts.\n\nClose to St Leonard's Church along \"St Leonard's Road\" are three of Hertford's oldest houses, \"Revels Hall\", built in the mid sixteenth century, \"Bengeo Old House\", formerly the vicarage, built in the late sixteenth century and \"Bengeo Hall\", built in the late seventeenth century and home to landscape painter Joshua Gosselin. All are Grade II* listed buildings.\n\nOn the west side of Bengeo are two further Grade II listed buildings, \"The Old Pest House\" and \"Little Molewood\". The former, on the corner of \"Byde Street\" and \"Fanshawe Street\", was built in 1763 as a smallpox isolation hospital; the latter, situated on \"The Avenue\", is an arts and crafts style house, built in 1904 for the Graveson family of Hertford by the architects Barry Parker and Raymond Unwin, who were the architects and planners of Letchworth Garden City.\n\nThe prominent concrete water tower on \"The Drive\" was built in 1929 and opened in 1930 to boost the water supply to new housing which could no longer be adequately accommodated by the then (but no longer) existing pumping station and water tower on \"Tower Street\". \"The Drive\" was developed after the construction of the tower. Today it has an array of aerials on the top, providing \"inter alia\" a local television relay from Crystal Palace transmitting station.\n\nCaptain W. E. Johns, author of many books including the Biggles series of novels, was born in February 1893 in Molewood Road, Bengeo.\n\nSir Thomas Dimsdale (1712–1800) pioneer of smallpox inoculation lived at Port Hill House and established an inoculation house still known as \"The Pest House\" on the corner of Byde Street and Fanshawe Street. He was also MP for Hertford from 1780-89.\n\nThomas Charles Byde Rooke (1806–1858) was an English physician who married into the royal family of the Kingdom of Hawaii was born in Bengeo. He built a mansion called the Rooke House in Honolulu that became popular with political and social leaders of the Kingdom.\n\nLes Howe (1912–1999), professional footballer with 165 appearances for Tottenham Hotspur was born in Bengeo.\n\nSir John Rennie (1794–1874) architect and civil engineer responsible for completing London Bridge and the Plymouth Breakwater died in Bengeo.\n\nSir Roy Malcolm Anderson FRS (born 12 April 1947) is a leading British expert on epidemiology and was educated at Duncombe School in Bengeo. He has mathematically modelled the spread of diseases such as new variant Creutzfeldt–Jakob disease and AIDS.\n\nLieutenant-General Arthur Ernest Percival CB DSO* OBE MC OStJ DL (26 December 1887 – 31 January 1966) was a British Army officer and World War I veteran and attended school in Bengeo. He built a successful military career during the interwar period but is most noted for his involvement in World War II, when he commanded the forces of the British Commonwealth during the Battle of Malaya and the subsequent Battle of Singapore.\n\nJohn George Howard, (1803–1890) born John Corby in Bengeo, and was an official surveyor and civil engineer for the City of Toronto government in Toronto, Ontario, Canada. He was also the first professional architect in Toronto where he was responsible for the design of numerous public, commercial and residential buildings. He was the principal donor of High Park to the people of Toronto.\n\nEdmund Feilde (1620–1676) politician and barrister owned land in Bengeo.\n\nWalter Lee (c. 1350 – 1395) politician and High Sheriff of Hertfordshire and Essex owned land in Bengeo.\n\nNoel Pemberton-Billing (1881–1948) aviator, inventor, publisher, extreme right-wing politician and MP for East Hertfordshire lived on Farquhar Street in 'Hertford House' and built a number of bungalows in the grounds, which incorporated some of his inventions. The aviation company he founded went on to develop, amongst other aircraft, the Spitfire.\n\nGeorge Ezra (1993–present), singer and songwriter, lived in Bengeo and attended Bengeo Primary School.\n\nJames Judd (1949–present), classical music conductor, spent his childhood and youth in Bengeo, living in The Drive. He was music director of the Florida Philharmonic Orchestra, from 1987 to 2001, and music director of the New Zealand Symphony Orchestra (NZSO), from 1999 to 2007. Presently (2017) he is music director of the Israel Symphony Orchestra Rishon LeZion, artistic director and principal conductor of the Daejeon Philharmonic Orchestra in South Korea, and music director-designate of the Slovak Philharmonic Orchestra.\n\n"}
{"id": "1996946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996946", "title": "Synergy (software)", "text": "Synergy (software)\n\nSynergy is a software application for sharing a keyboard and mouse between multiple computers. It is used in situations where several PCs are used together, with a monitor connected to each, but are to be controlled by one user. The user needs only one keyboard and mouse on the desk — similar to a KVM switch without the video.\n\nPartly open source and partly closed source, the open source components are released under the terms of the GNU General Public License, which is free software. The first version of Synergy was created on May 13, 2001, by Chris Schoeneman and worked with the X Window System only. Synergy now supports Windows, macOS, Linux, and other Unix-like operating systems.\n\nOnce the program is installed, users can move the mouse \"off\" the side of their desktop on one computer, and the mouse pointer will appear on the desktop of another computer. Key presses will be delivered to whichever computer the mouse-pointer is located in. This makes it possible to control several machines as easily as if they were a single multi-monitor computer. The clipboard and even screensavers can be synchronized.\n\nThe program is implemented as a server which defines which screen-edges lead to which machines, and one or more clients, which connect to the server to offer the use of their desktops. The keyboard and mouse are connected to the server machine.\n\nAs of version 2.0 (2017) keystrokes, mouse movements and clipboard contents are sent via an encrypted SSL network connection. This previously required the purchase of the Pro edition in version 1. In July 2013 the Defuse Security Group reported the proprietary encryption used in Synergy 1.6 to be insecure and released an exploit which could be used to passively decrypt the commands sent to the Synergy 1.6 clients. This was solved by using SSL in 1.7.\n\nTCP/IP communications (default port 24800) are used to send mouse, keyboard and clipboard events between computers in Synergy 1.\n\nThe first incarnation of Synergy was CosmoSynergy, created by Richard Lee and Adam Feder then at Cosmo Software, Inc., a subsidiary of SGI (née Silicon Graphics, Inc.), at the end of 1996. They wrote it, and Chris Schoeneman contributed, to solve a problem: most of the engineers in Cosmo Software had both an Irix and a Windows box on their desks and switchboxes were expensive and annoying. CosmoSynergy was a great success but Cosmo Software declined to productize it and the company was later closed. Synergy is a from-scratch reimplementation of CosmoSynergy. It provides most of the features of the original and adds a few improvements.\n\nSynergy+ was created in 2009 as a maintenance fork for the purpose of fixing bugs inherited from the original version. The original version of Synergy had not been updated for a notable length of time (as of 6 June 2010, the latest release was 2 April 2006). There was never official confirmation that the original Synergy project had been abandoned; however, there was public discussion providing speculation. In said discussion, Chris Schoeneman (the creator of Synergy) stated that instead of supporting a 1.3.x team, he intends on releasing version 2.0 of Synergy, and publicly announced on 27 Aug 2008 that he has been making progress on this version.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1996948", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996948", "title": "Clifton Hillegass", "text": "Clifton Hillegass\n\nClifton K. Hillegass (18 April 1918 in Rising City, Nebraska – 5 May 2001 in Lincoln, Nebraska) was the creator and publisher of\n\"CliffsNotes\".\n\n\"CliffsNotes\" are study guides that assist college and high school students in their literature course work. CliffsNotes began in 1958 as $1 reprints of Canadian study guides for 16 plays by Shakespeare. At that time, Hillegass worked for a major distributor of college textbooks. He knew hundreds of campus bookstore managers across the country. Those close relationships gave him the first outlets for the Notes. Sales expanded rapidly as high school students began to buy the slim yellow and black pamphlets. By the early 1970s the company had created additional study aids--exam reviews, course outlines, law school materials, and test preparation kits for the SAT, ACT, GRE, and GMAT. \n\nAs the company grew, Hillegass kept its headquarters in Lincoln, Nebraska. Each year he donated 10% of the pre-tax profits to local charities and civic organizations (which, on his death, received half of his estate). Most employees were lifetime Lincoln residents. After he sold the company in 1999, Hillegass endowed a chair in English at the University of Nebraska. \n\nClifton Hillegass graduated from Midland Lutheran College and then studied physics and geology for two years at the University of Nebraska. He later received four honorary degrees. \n\n"}
{"id": "1996949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996949", "title": "George A. Converse", "text": "George A. Converse\n\nGeorge Albert Converse (13 May 1844 – 29 March 1909) was a rear admiral in the United States Navy, who was noted for his contributions to naval engineering. He saw service in the Spanish–American War.\n\nConverse was born in Norwich, Vermont. He attended Norwich University and was a member of Theta Chi fraternity.\n\nConverse was appointed midshipman 29 November 1861. He was a pioneer in the use of electricity on board men-of-war, in experimentation with and introduction of smokeless powder in the Navy, and in development of torpedo boats. In command of \"Montgomery\" (C-9) from 1897 to 1899 he took an active part in operations off the coast of Cuba with Admiral William T. Sampson's squadron during the Spanish–American War. Commanding officer of from her commissioning in 1901 to 1903. From 1903 to 1906 he served successively as Chief of the Bureaus of Equipment, Ordnance, and Navigation, continuing as Chief of the latter Bureau for a year after his retirement in 1906. He died in Washington, D.C., 29 March 1909. He was buried in Arlington National Cemetery in Section #2 Plot #967.\n\nTwo destroyers have been named USS \"Converse\" in his honor.\n\n"}
{"id": "1996957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996957", "title": "George Converse", "text": "George Converse\n\nGeorge Converse may refer to:\n"}
{"id": "1996967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996967", "title": "Brian Horton", "text": "Brian Horton\n\nBrian Horton (born 4 February 1949), also known by the nickname Nobby Horton, is an English former footballer and manager, who is now assistant to Phil Brown at Swindon Town.\n\nHorton played for Hednesford Town, Port Vale, Brighton & Hove Albion, Luton Town and Hull City as a midfielder. His most significant spells were with Port Vale and Brighton from 1970 to 1981, making over 200 appearances over the course of around five seasons with each club. He also made over 100 appearances for Luton between 1981 and 1984. He was promoted out of the Second Division with both Brighton and Luton. During his career he was named on the PFA Team of the Year three times, and played a total of 610 league games in the English Football League.\n\nHe was even more prolific as a manager, taking the reins at Hull City, Oxford United, Manchester City, Huddersfield Town, Brighton & Hove Albion, Port Vale and Macclesfield Town. His longest spells were at Hull and Vale, where he had previously found success as a player. At all seven clubs he boasted a win ratio of more than 30%. Horton is one of the few managers in English football to have taken charge of teams in more than a thousand games. His successes include taking Hull out of the Third Division in 1984–85, and winning the League Trophy with Port Vale in 2001. However his speciality has been in stabilizing struggling clubs, as he has been relegated only twice in more than 20 seasons as a manager.\n\nBorn in Hednesford, Staffordshire, Horton was a tough defensive midfielder who started his career as a member of Walsall's youth team at the age of 15. He played regularly in the West Midlands (Regional) League, though was released after two years without having appeared for the first team, and dropped down to his non-League hometown club Hednesford Town after being signed by player-manager Dick Neal. Known as Nobby to fans, a nickname that stuck with him throughout his career, he won the Staffordshire Senior Cup in his final appearance for the club.\n\nHe signed for Third Division Port Vale in July 1970. It was reported that his transfer fee was a pint of shandy, as the cash-strapped potteries club haggled with the Hednesford Town chairman by plying him with alcohol, therefore his transfer fee was 'a pint of shandy'. A first team regular from the start under manager Gordon Lee, Horton played 40 games in 1970–71, and scored his first competitive goal in a 3–2 win against Bury at Gigg Lane. He then found his scoring form in 1971–72, as he hit eight goals in 47 appearances; he also became the club's penalty taker, with half of his goals coming from the spot. He hit seven goals in 43 games in 1972–73, four of his strikes coming from the penalty spot. He missed a period around Christmas due to injury, and during this time his teammates struggled to find results; this ultimately cost the \"Valiants\", as they finished four points behind promoted Notts County. Lee changed the team's formation from 4–4–2 to 4–3–3 in 1973–74, hoping that this would allow Horton more room in the centre of the field. However Vale's form suffered, and Lee was replaced as manager by Roy Sproson in January. Vale finished the campaign one place above the relegation zone, though were seven points clear of danger. Horton played 46 games, scoring four goals.\n\nVale missed out on promotion by just four points in 1974–75, as Horton hit thirteen goals in 47 games, leaving him one goal behind top-scorers Ray Williams and Terry Bailey. He hit four goals in 35 games in 1975–76, as he bagged both of Vale's goals in a win over Millwall at Vale Park. Much to the disappointment of Vale supporters, he was sold to league rivals Brighton & Hove Albion in March 1976 for a fee of £30,000. In total he spent nearly six years with Port Vale, scoring a total of 37 goals in 258 games in league and cup competitions.\n\nBrighton finished fourth in 1975–76, three points shy of promotion, and Peter Taylor departed. For his performances at both Vale and Brighton, Horton was named on the PFA Team of the Year, along with Brighton teammates Graham Cross and Peter Ward. The \"Seagulls\" finished second in 1976–77 under Alan Mullery, and thus were promoted into the Second Division. They then stormed to a fourth-place finish in 1977–78, missing out on promotion to the First Division only because Tottenham Hotspur had superior goal difference. Undeterred, Brighton won promotion as runners-up in 1978–79, one point behind champions Crystal Palace and one point ahead of fourth place Sunderland. Horton was named on the PFA Team of the Year for a second time, alongside teammate Mark Lawrenson.\n\nIn 1979–80, Brighton played top-flight football for the first time in their history. They finished a respectable sixteenth, some six points clear of the drop. The 1980–81 season was a much narrower affair, but Brighton finished nineteenth, two points clear of relegated Norwich City. He left the Goldstone Ground having scored 47 goals in 251 league and cup games.\n\nHorton transferred to Luton Town in August 1981, as the club were competing in the Second Division under the stewardship of David Pleat. He was again promoted into the top-flight, as the \"Hatters\" topped the Second Division table in 1981–82 by an eight-point margin, some eighteen points clear of fourth place Sheffield Wednesday. He was named on the PFA Team of the Year for the third time in his career, alongside teammates Kirk Stephens, Ricky Hill, and David Moss.\n\nLuton then went on to escape relegation on the final day of the 1982–83 season at Maine Road, following a 1–0 over Manchester City, who took their place in the relegation zone. The match became famous for the images of David Pleat dancing across the pitch in jubilation. He left Kenilworth Road at the conclusion of the 1983–84 campaign, as the club secured their top-flight status with a sixteenth-place finish. He had played 131 first team games for the club, scoring 14 goals. His next move was to Hull City, who appointed him their player-manager, and with whom he ended his playing career in 1986 after making 46 competitive appearances.\n\nHorton became player-manager of Hull City in July 1984, and led his side to promotion to the Second Division in 1984–85. He quickly built up a reputation as a \"strong-minded, tactically-aware coach.\" He signed former Luton Town teammate Frankie Bunn as a replacement for top-scorer Billy Whitehurst, who he sold to Newcastle United.\n\nThe following season they came very close to earning promotion to the First Division, finishing a credible sixth place. At the end of the campaign Horton quit playing to concentrate on full-time management. Despite the introduction of the play-off system in 1986–87, the \"Tigers\" ended the campaign in mid-table obscurity.\n\nThe 1987–88 campaign began promisingly, and the club was in the top six and chasing the automatic promotion places by the half-way stage. However, a dreadful run of results in which there was just one win in seventeen games ended any hope of promotion. Their form was not helped by the sale of star play-maker Garry Parker to Nottingham Forest for a £260,000 fee. After a 4–1 home defeat to Swindon Town, chairman Don Robinson was furious and immediately fired Horton. The players took responsibility for the defeat and urged the chairman to re-consider, Robinson obliged, but Horton refused the offer of reinstatement. During his reign he turned down the opportunity to sign apprentice Dean Windass. Hull went on to finish the season in fifteenth place, as Eddie Gray was announced as his successor.\n\nHorton's next move was to become assistant to rookie manager Mark Lawrenson at Oxford United. Lawrenson left the club in October 1988 after star player Dean Saunders was sold to Derby County without his consent, and the board elected Horton as his replacement; at the time both Derby and Oxford were owned by members of Robert Maxwell's family. In February 1989, he bought John Durnin from Liverpool for a £250,000 fee. He also gave débuts to Joey Beauchamp and Paul Kee. Under his leadership Oxford finished the 1988–89 Second Division campaign in seventeenth place.\n\nIn preparation for 1989–90, he exploited the relationship between Derby and Oxford to sign Dave Penney for £175,000; he also brought Ceri Evans and Steve Foster to the club. On the pitch it was a case of deja-vu, as Oxford finished the season in seventeenth place, again with 54 points. Hoping to build a promotion winning squad for the 1990–91 campaign, he paid Swansea City £275,000 for Andy Melville and bought Doncaster Rovers defender Les Robinson for £150,000. He also signed young Liverpool midfielder Jim Magilton. The \"Yellows\" finished in tenth place, eight points off the play-off places.\n\nThe club faced a financial crisis following the mysterious death of Robert Maxwell, and over the summer Horton was forced to sell striker Martin Foyle to Port Vale for £375,000. He made no major signings in Foyle's place, and instead handed débuts to Paul Wanless, Chris Allen, and Bobby Ford. He also sold Paul Simpson to Derby for £500,000 in February 1992. The loss of close to £1 million of talent showed on the pitch, as Oxford finished 1991–92 one place and two points ahead of relegated Plymouth Argyle. They secured their safety with a final day win over Tranmere Rovers.\n\nThere was less drama in 1992–93, as his side finished fourteenth, seven points above the drop. Over the summer he paid Corby Town £20,000 for striker Matt Murphy, and sold Andy Melville on to Sunderland for £500,000. Horton left the Manor Ground for an even bigger challenge in August 1993. Oxford went on to suffer relegation at the end of the 1993–94 campaign, under the stewardship of Denis Smith.\n\nIn August 1993, four games after the start of the 1993–94 Premier League campaign, Horton resigned as Oxford manager to replace Peter Reid as manager of Manchester City – to the surprise of many supporters and commentators, who were expecting the appointment of someone more high-profile. City's previous three seasons in the top flight had yielded top-ten finishes but Horton struggled with injuries – key striker Niall Quinn was missing through a cruciate ligament injury – and City were 20th and bottom in mid-February. He traded eight-year club veteran striker David White to Leeds United in exchange for David Rocastle; Rocastle failed to live up to expectations, and scored just two league goals. But then Horton transformed his attack by signing Uwe Rösler, Paul Walsh and Peter Beagrie, and City escaped relegation after losing only two of the last fourteen games of the season.\n\nHorton played with two out and out wingers in 1994–95, Beagrie and summer signing Nicky Summerbee. This led to Rösler, Walsh and Quinn scoring 47 goals between them, but also to some heavy defeats, such as the 5–0 loss to rivals Manchester United. City were sixth on 3 December and there was talk of a much-awaited return to European football, as young talents such as Garry Flitcroft, Richard Edghill, and Steve Lomas came to the fore. However they won only four of their remaining 25 league games, finishing just four points clear of relegation, and Horton was sacked. His sacking was predicted by many, as Francis Lee had taken over as chairman after Horton's appointment, and wished to have his 'own man' in the dugout at Maine Road. City went on to suffer relegation in 1995–96 under Alan Ball.\n\nHe made a swift return to management with Huddersfield Town, who had just won promotion to the First Division under Neil Warnock, who announced his surprise resignation days after the club's play-off success. The \"Terriers\" started 1995–96 positively, and enjoyed a mid-season run of just two defeats in nineteen games. They also reached the Fifth Round of the FA Cup, where they lost to Premier League Wimbledon in a replay at Plough Lane. A play-off place beckoned, but a run of just three wins in their final thirteen games left them in eighth place, eight points behind sixth placed Charlton Athletic.\n\nHorton broke the club's transfer record when he splashed out £1.2 million on Bristol Rovers striker Marcus Stewart. However Huddersfield failed to impress in 1996–97, and ended the campaign just two places and eight points ahead of relegated Grimsby Town. Huddersfield had suffered as both Stewart and defender Andy Morrison missed much of the campaign due to injury, though £325,000 summer signing Andy Payton proved to be a revelation, hitting nineteen goals in league and cup.\n\nThe club bottom of the table, Horton was sacked in September 1997, two years before the end of his contract, after his side went nine league games without a win. The \"Terriers\" went on to finish 1997–98 in sixteenth place under Peter Jackson.\n\nIn February 1998, Horton returned to one of his old clubs as a player when he became manager of Brighton & Hove Albion. The club were second from bottom in the Third Division and would have been facing the prospect of Conference football were bottom club Doncaster Rovers not so far behind the rest of the pack. He led the club to victory over Chester City, Brighton's first win in five months. The \"Seagulls\" secured their Football League status in April after winning a point at league leaders Notts County. They went on to finish 1997–98 second from bottom, fifteen points clear of relegated Doncaster, yet six points behind third from bottom Hull City, who were themselves nine points behind Swansea and Cardiff in 20th and 21st. He then signed Gary Hart from Stansted of the Essex Senior Football League for £1,000 and a set of kit.\n\nBrighton improved under Horton in 1998–99, though Horton left the club in January 1999 to take charge of another of his old clubs, Port Vale, after the sacking of long-serving manager John Rudge. Brighton went on to finish the season in seventeenth place under Micky Adams.\n\nIn order to help the Vale to avoid relegation in 1999, Horton brought in Dave Brammer, Tony Butler, Carl Griffiths, Alex Smith, and Chris Allen. This spending spree set the club back £590,000, and so Horton first sold off Peter Beadle to Notts County for £250,000 in order to raise the cash needed for his new signings. He also brought in two loanees: Alan Lee from Aston Villa, and Craig Russell from Manchester City. A five-game unbeaten run in April allowed the Vale to finish above relegated Bury on goals scored.\n\nIn a bid to survive another season in the First Division, Horton allowed ten players to leave Vale Park; the most significant departure was Neil Aspin, as the 34 year dropped down two divisions as his career wound down. To replace these players, Horton signed three players on free transfers: Jeff Minton from former club Brighton, Tommy Widdrington from Grimsby Town, and Steve Rimmer from Manchester City. He also took goalkeepers Andy Oakes and Matt Glennon in on loan, and signed striker Martin Aldridge on loan from Blackpool. As the season progressed he released Marcus Bent, and sold Carl Griffiths back to Leyton Orient for £100,000. He further sold Anthony Gardner to Tottenham Hotspur for £1 million, and sold Tony Butler to West Bromwich Albion for £140,000. In their place he signed Micky Cummins, Mark Goodlad, Sagi Burton, and Ville Viljanen; and also took Martin Bullock, Gareth Taylor, and David Healy in on loan. His side finished second from bottom were relegated in his first full season as manager. At the end of the campaign club legend Martin Foyle retired, whilst key players Paul Musselwhite and Ian Bogie also departed.\n\nIn preparation for life in the Second Division, Horton signed Sincliar Le Geyt, Dean Delany, Marc Bridge-Wilkinson, and Michael Twiss. He supplemented these free transfer signings with loanees David Freeman and David Beresford. Horton came under pressure from the board at the start of the 2000–01 campaign, as his team went thirteen games without a win, and were knocked out of the FA Cup by non-league Canvey Island. He responded to this humiliation by placing five players on the transfer list. He signed Steve Brooker for £15,000; brought in Onandi Lowe and Richard Burgess on free transfers; signed Wayne Gray and Ashley Dodd on loan; whilst also offloading Jeff Minton to Rotherham United. Vale's form improved, as they avoided defeat in both Potteries derby games. Horton was named Manager of the Month in March, after a good run of results ended fears of a second successive relegation. He also won his first trophy as a manager as Vale lifted the League Trophy, coming from behind to beat Brentford at the Millennium Stadium. Vale also won the Staffordshire Senior Cup. However more club legends departed, as Tony Naylor and Allen Tankard began to show their age. More controversial was the sale of Dave Brammer to Crewe Alexandra for £500,000.\n\nThe club entered a financial crisis following the collapse of ITV Digital, which cost the club £400,000 in revenue. This meant Horton had to build his squad for 2001–02 entirely on free transfers. Ashley Dodd, Ian Armstrong, Phil Hardy, Rae Ingram, Alex Gibson, Chris Killen, Simon Osborn, Sean McClare, Danny Webber, John Durnin, and Mvondo Atangana all would make little impact; however former Coventry City striker Stephen McPhee would be a key player for the club over the next few years. Vale beat rivals Stoke City, but ended 2001–02 in mid-table obscurity. Manager of the Month in February, Horton was linked to vacant management position at Preston North End, but remained at Vale Park.\n\nHorton signed Jon McCarthy, Brett Angell, Ian Brightwell, Phil Charnock, Sam Collins, and Mark Boyd for the 2002–03 campaign. Four straight defeats were followed by five consecutive victories, as he supplemented his squad with the additions of Lee Ashcroft, Peter Clarke and Adrian Littlejohn. Though relegation was avoided, Horton still remained unpopular with some sections of the Vale's supporters. However the season was dominated by off-the-field issues, as Vale entered administration, and were taken over by Bill Bratt's fan-based consortium.\n\nBuilding for the 2003–04 campaign, Horton had to find a replacement for departing defender Matt Carragher. He found his replacement in Everton's reliable young George Pilkington; he also signed goalkeeper Jonny Brain and Austrian defender Andreas Lipa. By the start of the campaign Horton had completed the rebuilding of his squad that was necessitated by the financial crisis and the ageing of the highly successful side of the mid-1990s. A good start saw the club top of the table and Horton was named as Manager of the Month. The Vale were one point outside the play-offs by February, at which point Horton tendered his resignation. In his absence, rookie manager Martin Foyle led the club to a seventh-place finish, as the \"Valiants\" missed out on the play-offs due to their inferior goal difference.\n\nLinked with the management position at Swansea City, Horton was instead appointed as manager of Third Division strugglers Macclesfield Town at the start of April 2004, replacing John Askey. This was initially until the end of the season, but in May he was given the job on a permanent basis. He rejuvenated a demoralised side and kept them in the Football League, as they finished seven points clear of the drop in 2003–04.\n\nOver the summer he signed Iraqi international Jassim Swadi, experienced striker Mike Sheron, veteran defender Tony Barras, left-back Mark Bailey, and Tommy Rooney (cousin of Wayne Rooney). He allowed Martin Carruthers to leave, though extended Tommy Widdrington's contract, and offered fresh deals to six others. He later added to his squad by signing Mark Boyd and Simon Weaver; whilst transfer listing Tommy Widdrington and Michael Welch. Many pundits were tipping the \"Silkmen\" to slip out of the newly named League Two at the end of 2004–05, but Horton proved the observers wrong as his side were in the top-seven of the division virtually all season long. Horton celebrated his 1000th game as a manager on 3 November 2004, as Macclesfield beat Mansfield 4–0 in the League Trophy. He also won the League Two Manager of the Month award for February. Macclesfield qualified for the play-offs in sixth place, but their promotion challenge was finally ended by Lincoln City in the semi-finals, following a 2–1 aggregate defeat. At the end of the season, Horton released nine players, including club captain Matthew Tipton. In the place of these nine players he signed Kevin Sandwith, Kevin Townson, Martin Bullock, and David Beresford.\n\nDespite high expectations, Horton's men were not to challenge again in 2005–06. The club were hit by financial troubles after being told they had to pay fines totalling £250,000, and at one point were at risk of being wound up. As a result, Horton was forced to cope without assistant John Askey, after Askey was dismissed to cut costs. The sale of top scorer Jon Parkin also robbed Horton of his best player. Following a poor start to the season he placed four players on the transfer list. He also placed Kevin Townson on the transfer list, before sacking the striker after Townson displayed \"serious misconduct\". Throughout the campaign, Horton signed goalkeeper Tommy Lee, striker Clyde Wijnhard, midfielder Alan Navarro, forward Allan Russell, and non-league striker Matty McNeil. The \"Silkmen\" finished in seventeenth place, five points above the relegation zone.\n\nHorton prepared for the 2006–07 campaign by searching for a new midfield player, and found one in Shrewsbury Town's Jamie Tolley. He also signed versatile attacker Colin Heath, defender Carl Regan, former Port Vale goalkeeper Jonny Brain; whilst releasing five players. Horton was sacked in October 2006, after his team failed to win any of their opening twelve league games, leaving them bottom of the Football League. Paul Ince was appointed as his replacement, and led the club to a 22nd-place finish, as they avoided relegation by two points, after Boston United were hit with a ten-point deduction.\n\nIn May 2007, Horton returned to Hull City as assistant manager to Phil Brown; this appointment came nineteen years after he resigned as Hull manager. He helped the club win promotion to the Premier League via the play-offs in May 2008, the first time Hull City were in the top-flight in 104 years. In October 2008, Manchester United boss Sir Alex Ferguson praised Horton for his part in Hull's superb start to the 2008–09 Premier League season, though their early challenge among the top six clubs did not last and they ended the season just one place above the relegation zone. In March 2009, Horton was featured heavily in the press after accusing Arsenal club captain Cesc Fàbregas of spitting following an encounter in the FA Cup. Fàbregas was later cleared of any wrongdoing. The \"Tigers\" struggled in 2009–10, and Phil Brown was put on gardening leave on 15 March, as Horton and Steve Parkin were appointed as the club's joint-caretaker managers. Hull went on to be relegated under Iain Dowie, who had made Tim Flowers his assistant.\n\nIn January 2011, Phil Brown was appointed manager of Preston North End, and Horton was appointed as his assistant. Preston were relegated from the Championship at the end of the 2010–11 campaign. Horton left Preston when Phil Brown was sacked on 14 December 2011.\n\nIn March 2012, following the departure of Gary Simpson, Horton returned to Macclesfield Town as manager for the rest of the 2011–12 season. Assisted by Glyn Chamberlain, he had been tasked with steering the club clear of relegation from League Two, much the same task as he faced the first time he was appointed manager at Moss Rose. A 2–0 home defeat to Burton Albion on 28 April sent the \"Silkmen\" into the Conference after 15 years in the Football League. He stepped down as manager on 30 April, having gained just two points from his eight games in charge.\n\nIn June 2013, he was appointed as assistant manager to Paul Dickov at Championship club Doncaster Rovers. He left the role in July 2015. He was appointed as football coordinator by Southend United manager Phil Brown in August 2015. He left Roots Hall on 17 January 2018 after Brown was placed on gardening leave. On 15 March 2018, Brown appointed Horton as his assistant at new club Swindon Town.\n\nSource:\n"}
{"id": "1996970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996970", "title": "Department of Agriculture, Aquaculture and Fisheries (New Brunswick)", "text": "Department of Agriculture, Aquaculture and Fisheries (New Brunswick)\n\nThe Department of Agriculture, Aquaculture and Fisheries is an executive agency of the Government of New Brunswick. It is in charge of the development and support of food production and economic development through such sectors of the economy.\n\nThe department was established on March 23, 2000 when Premier Bernard Lord restructured the New Brunswick Cabinet. It was a merger of the former departments of Agriculture and Rural Development and Fisheries & Aquaculture first under the name of the Department of Food Development and later under the name Department of Agriculture, Fisheries and Aquaculture. The creation of this department was very controversial and marked by protests by both farmers and fishers, though primarily farmers, who felt that the new department would not be specialized to adequately address their issues.\n\nWhen Shawn Graham became Premier on October 3, 2006, he appointed a Minister of Agriculture and Aquaculture and a Minister of Fisheries. On March 2, 2007, a bill disbanding this department and creating a Department of Agriculture and Aquaculture and a Department of Fisheries received royal assent, the bill was retroactive to October 3, 2006. When Graham left office, Alward re-merged the departments under the new name Agriculture, Aquaculture and Fisheries.\n\n"}
{"id": "1996972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996972", "title": "Long Street (Cape Town)", "text": "Long Street (Cape Town)\n\nLong Street is a major street located in the City Bowl section of Cape Town, South Africa. It is famous as a bohemian hang out and the street is lined with many book stores, various ethnic restaurants and bars. Restaurants include African restaurants such as Zula, and Indian restaurants such as Masala Dosa. Long Street exhibits a diversified culture and attracts tourists from all over the world. It also has a number of youth hostels which provide accommodation to an international roster of guests. Several theatres which showed anti-apartheid plays were located on the street during the 1970s and 1980s, although most have now closed and been replaced by restaurants or stores.\n\nArchitecturally it is noted for its Victorian buildings with wrought iron balconies. These were featured in an article in an edition of the annual publication \"The Saturday Book\". \n\nTraffic on Long Street is one-way in the uphill (southwest) direction, while the parallel Loop Street carries downhill traffic. The number 101 MyCiTi bus runs the length of Long Street on its way from the Civic Centre to Gardens, with five stops along the street.\n\n"}
{"id": "1996974", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996974", "title": "Browns Park", "text": "Browns Park\n\nBrown's Park or Browns Park, originally called Brown's Hole, is an isolated mountain valley along the Green River in Moffat County, Colorado and Daggett County, Utah in the United States. The valley begins in far eastern Utah, approximately downstream from Flaming Gorge Dam, and follows the river downstream into Colorado, ending at the Gates of Lodore in Dinosaur National Monument. Known as a haven for outlaws such as Butch Cassidy and Tom Horn during the late 19th century and the early 20th century, it is now the location of the Browns Park National Wildlife Refuge. It was also the birthplace of Ann Bassett. She and her sister Josie Bassett, were considered female outlaws and girlfriends to several of Cassidy's Wild Bunch gang. It is the location of John Jarvie Historic Ranch, where, in 1880, Scotsman John Jarvie built a ranch along the Green River.\n\nIn the early 19th century, when the Euro-Americans first entered the area, the area was inhabited by Comanche, Shoshoni, and Ute tribal groups. Blackfoot, Sioux, Cheyenne, Arapaho, and Navajo tribes also visited or used the area. The use of the area by Native Americans was documented by the 1776 Domínguez–Escalante expedition and by the 1805 Lewis and Clark Expedition. In the 1830s the valley became a favorite location for fur trappers and settlers. In 1837 Fort Davy Crockett was constructed as a trading post and as defense against attacks by the Blackfoot. The fort was abandoned in the 1840s and the population of settlers declined. After the discovery of gold in California in 1848, the valley emerged among ranchers as a favorite wintering ground for cattle. By the 1860s it had acquired a reputation as haven for cattle rustlers, horse thieves, and outlaws, alongside Hole-in-the-Wall, Wyoming and Robbers Roost in Utah. During its outlaw heyday, the Browns Park ethic allowed for most \"outlaw deeds\" except murder.\nButch Cassidy reportedly acquired his nickname while working for a local rancher, and returned to the region repeatedly during his outlaw career.\nIn 1965 the valley became part of the Browns Park National Wildlife Refuge, designated as a habitat for migratory waterfowl. The refuge contains the remains of several historic sites, including \"Two Bar Ranch\" headquarters; Fort Davy Crockett; Lodore Hall (which still serves as a community center); and several old abandoned cabins and homesteader settlements.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1996975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996975", "title": "Węgorzewo", "text": "Węgorzewo\n\nWęgorzewo (until 1946 ; , ) is a tourist town on the Angrapa River in northeastern Poland, within the historical region of Masuria. It is the seat of Węgorzewo County in the Warmian-Masurian Voivodeship and is located not far from the border with Russia's Kaliningrad Oblast. Lake Mamry is close to the town.\n\nThe town's names in different languages are derived from local names for European eels, which used to live in the area in great numbers. The German name \"Angerburg\" () is derived from the Old Prussian word for eel, \"Anger\", which the German Teutonic Knights appropriated after conquering the Old Prussians. The Polish name \"Węgorzewo\" (and the older \"Węgobork\") is derived from \"Węgorz\", while the local Lithuanian names \"Ungura\" and \"Unguris\" comes from \"Ungurys\". A Lithuanian variation is \"Angerburgas\".\n\nThe town was first mentioned in a 1335 chronicle as \"Angirburg\", or \"eel castle\", a settlement of the Teutonic Knights with a block house, a palisade, and a watchtower. A 1341 document reported that the Teutonic Order had bestowed land on the river Angerapp (Angrapa) upon twelve Old Prussians for their loyal service. The Grand Duke of Lithuania, Kęstutis, destroyed the castle in 1365, although the order rebuilt the castle out of stone thirty years later. The completion of the stone castle Angerburg allowed the Teutonic Knights to increase development of the surrounding countryside.\n\nAs a result of the Thirteen Years’ War (1454–1466) the settlement came under Polish suzerainty as a fief. The land around the Angerburg castle began to be settled by the end of the 15th century. As it was primarily farmland, the Lake Mamry was blocked up to allow the construction of a watermill. Ca. 1510 a locality known as \"Neudorf\" (\"new village\") or \"Gerothwol\" had developed near the Angerburg. After the foundation of the Duchy of Prussia as a fief of the Kingdom of Poland in 1525, Angerburg/Węgobork became the seat of a district head. Albert, Duke of Prussia, granted the settlement town privileges and determined that it should be called \"Angerburg\" like the nearby castle. The Polish inhabitants called the city by its Polish name \"Węgobork\". A large part of the town was destroyed by a fire in 1608, including a wooden church and the 20-year-old town hall.\n\nBeing situated in Masuria, in the transition area with the ethnographic region of Lithuania Minor, Węgobork/Angerburg had a Polish majority with sizable minorities of Germans and Lithuanians (Lietuvninks). The town suffered from the Swedish-Polish Wars, attacks by the Tatars, and plague epidemics, the last outbreak of which occurred in 1710 and claimed 1,111 victims. To help repopulate the town, 48 people from Salzburg, Austria were resettled here in 1732. The Lithuanian minority diminished after the 16th and 17th centuries, while Poles still formed the majority of the district's population in the early 19th century (52% in 1825).\n\nAngerburg became part of the Kingdom of Prussia in 1701 and was named a garrison town of the Prussian Army in 1718. A harbor was built on the Angerapp, allowing an aqueduct to be built in 1740, as well as an expansion of the garrison to include ten barracks. A water supply system was built in 1740 by Jan Władysław Suchodolec. Angerburg had approximately 1,800 inhabitants at this time. Its inhabitants suffered from warfare, however, as Angerburg was occupied by Russian troops during the Seven Years' War. During the Napoleonic Wars, typhus was brought by Russian troops and the town was plundered by French and Polish troops.\n\nKing Stanisław Leszczyński of Poland stopped in the castle in March and May 1736.\n\nAngerburg was included in the Prussian province of East Prussia in 1773 and became the district seat of Landkreis Angerburg in 1818. The town became part of the German Empire upon the Prussian-led unification of Germany in 1871. A teaching seminary and a deaf-mute school were opened in 1820, and the town's population increased to over 3,500. Between 1848 and 1858, Polish pastor and opponent of Germanisation of Masuria Jan Fryderyk Anders was a pastor of the Węgobork Lutheran Parish.\n\nThe canalization of the Angerapp and the expansion of the harbor in 1856 allowed business to expand, and the garrison left the town in 1858. The district court and the office of the public prosecutor moved from Angerburg to Lyck (Ełk) after the \"Kreistag\", or district parliament, hindered the connection of the town to developing road network and railways. Angerburg was first connected to the railroad network in 1898, allowing it to develop into a trade center. The town became especially known for its Behindertenanstalt Bethesda, an institute for those with mental retardation.\n\nIn year 1825, the county of Angerburg (including the town) had 24351 inhabitants, including (by mother tongue): 12535 (~52%) Polish, 11756 (~42%) German and 60 Lithuanian.\n\nAngerburg became a garrison town again after the outbreak of World War I (1914–18), when it had a population of 5,800 inhabitants. The German-Russian military cemetery \"Jägerhöhe\" was located nearby. The war did not impact the town greatly, and Angerburg grew through new housing developments afterwards. Angerburg also began to develop through tourism after the opening of the Angerapp to regular navigation. At the beginning of the Third Reich, the town had a population of 7,700 which profited from a local cavalry regiment. Through incorporation of neighboring communities, Angerburg expanded to include 10,922 inhabitants in 1939.\n\nLike the rest of East Prussia, Angerburg was initially only indirectly affected by World War II (1939–45), such as casualties of war and supply shortages. This situation changed as the eastern front grew near during the winter of 1944-45. Unlike the neighboring town of Goldap to the east, Angerburg was not involved in fighting, but was given up by the Wehrmacht as the Soviet Red Army advanced. After the Red Army reached Elbing and cut off East Prussia from the rest of Germany, the citizens of Angerburg were forced to evacuate the province by traveling across the Vistula Lagoon or to Pillau. The Red Army reached Angerburg on January 25, 1945 and destroyed much of the town; only a few buildings remained of the old town center.\n\nAccording to the post-war Potsdam Conference, Angerburg was placed under Polish administration and renamed \"Węgorzewo\". The remaining German-speaking population was expelled westward and replaced with Poles who either came from central Poland or were themselves expelled from the Polish Eastern Borderlands (Kresy), especially Wilno (Vilnius) and Grodno. Some Lemko also came from the Beskids.\n\nWęgorzewo initially suffered economically after the fall of the Iron Curtain and the Revolutions of 1989, but has become a popular tourist site in the Masurian Lake District. The town is famous for the music festivals which take place in summertime, including a rock festival, a sailors' song festival, and a poetic song festival.\n\n\nWęgorzewo is twinned with:\n"}
{"id": "1996983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996983", "title": "John McLaren, Lord McLaren", "text": "John McLaren, Lord McLaren\n\nJohn McLaren, Lord McLaren, FRSE (17 August 1831 – 6 April 1910) was a Scottish Liberal politician and judge. In the scientific world he is remembered as a mathematician and astronomer.\n\nThe son of Duncan McLaren, a former Provost of Edinburgh and Member of Parliament, and his wife Grant Aitken, he was born at 21 South St David Street, in Edinburgh's New Town.\n\nHe studied Law at Edinburgh University. He was admitted to the Scottish Faculty of Advocates in 1856. In 1869 he was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh his proposer being Robert William Thomson. He served as the Society's Vice President for three sessions:\n1885 to 1891; 1892 to 1898; and 1901 to 1906.\n\nHe held the office of Sheriff of Chancery in Scotland 1869–1880. He reorganised the Scottish Liberals and arranged Gladstone's Midlothian campaign of 1879–1880.\n\nHe was elected Member of Parliament for Wigtown Burghs in April 1880 and appointed Lord Advocate, losing his seat on seeking re-election on 20 May 1880. He failed to be elected at Berwick-upon-Tweed on 21 July 1880, but was returned for Edinburgh on 28 January 1881. McLaren's father Duncan McLaren had resigned as MP for Edinburgh, which produced the vacancy to be filled. McLaren continued to sit for Edinburgh until he was appointed as a judge, later in the year. He was Lord Advocate for Scotland 1880/81.\n\nUnder pressure from Gladstone and Sir William Harcourt, he accepted appointment to the bench in 1881 with the judicial title Lord McLaren. He was an eminently successful judge, and edited works on Scots law. For his contributions to astronomy and mathematics he was awarded honorary degrees (all LLD) from Edinburgh University, the University of Glasgow and the University of Aberdeen.\n\nLord McLaren died in Brighton in Sussex on 6 April 1910 but was returned to Edinburgh for burial in the Grange Cemetery on its southmost path. The original bronze medallion head was stolen but it is replaced with an accurate and convincing plastic replica.\n\nMcLaren wrote a number of books on legal topics, including \"Law of Wills and Succession\".\n\nIn 1868 he married Ottile Schwabe (d.1914). Their children largely died in childhood. Their eldest daughter was Ottilie McLaren\n\nHis portrait by Sir John Lavery is held in the Scottish National Portrait Gallery but is rarely displayed.\n\n\nSource: \"Who's Who of British Members of Parliament, Volume I 1832-1885\" edited by M. Stenton (The Harvester Press 1976).\n"}
{"id": "1997010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997010", "title": "Tomás Hirsch", "text": "Tomás Hirsch\n\nTomás René Hirsch Goldschmidt (born 19 July 1956) is a leftist Chilean politician and businessman. He was the Together We Can Do More pact candidate for the 2005 Chilean presidential election, winning 5.4% of the vote.\n\nHirsch was born in Santiago, Chile, to Jewish-German parents. His mother, Lysa Goldschmidt, arrived in Chile before World War II, while his father, Jorge Hirsch, arrived in the country escaping from German Nazi concentration camps.\n\nDuring his youth, Hirsch became interested in Silo, an Argentinian writer and leader of a movement that inspired the founders of the Humanist Party.\n\nIn 1974 Hirsch began studying Industrial Civil Engineering at the University of Chile, but dropped out in 1978. Later he began working on his brother's photo company.\n\nHirsch is married to Juanita Vergara and has two children.\n\nIn 1983 Hirsch helped found the Humanist Party, the first political party legalized (1987) under the dictatorship of Augusto Pinochet, and was president of the party from 1994 until 1999. He was also one of the founders of the Coalition of Parties for Democracy (CPD) and served as Chile's ambassador to New Zealand between 1990–92, under the democratic government of Patricio Aylwin. In January 1993, the Humanist Party withdrew from the CPD.\n\nHirsch unsuccessfully ran for a seat in the lower house of Congress in 1997 and for President in 1999, representing the Humanists.\n\nHirsch was a leading spokesperson for the victims of the Pinochet regime - when Pinochet was under house arrest in London. He would often appear on international news cables demanding that Pinochet be sent to Spain and be put on trial for crimes against humanity. He criticized the government of Ricardo Lagos for pushing for Pinochet’s release from detention claiming that Pinochet would never stand trial in Chile where he was protected by the Chilean Army and the Chilean political establishment. Hirsch has also been a major critic of the course the Coalition of Parties for Democracy has taken and was cynical of the euphoria created by the election of the socialist president Michelle Bachelet claiming that her government meant a continuation of the same for most Chileans.\n\nHirsch has a highly revolutionary conception of Chilean society and his party calls for systemic changes to the economy to create a more egalitarian, truly socialistic and democratic society for all Chileans. He is also a supporter of the cause of the natives of Chile – the Mapuches. Some of his views are close to those of the Communist Party of Chile (with which his party formed an electoral front in the coalition \"Juntos Podemos Más\" (English: Together we can do more) in the Chilean presidential elections of 2005. He is supported by a broad layer of progressive and left-wing people who believe the political \"right\" has unfairly controlled Chilean politics since the end of the Pinochet dictatorship. Hirsch has been arrested on a number of occasions by the Chilean police for taking part in demonstrations in support of political causes.\n\n"}
{"id": "1997012", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997012", "title": "Swan Islands, Honduras", "text": "Swan Islands, Honduras\n\nThe Swan Islands, or Islas Santanilla or Islas del Cisne, initially named Islas de las Pozas by Christopher Columbus in 1502, is a chain of three islands located in the northwestern Caribbean Sea, approximately off the coastline of Honduras, with a land area of .\n\nThe islands are uninhabited except for a small permanent Honduran naval garrison stationed on Great Swan Island that maintains the Islas del Cisne Airport.\n\nThe Swan Islands lie within the exclusive economic zone of Honduras and belong to the Islas de la Bahía department of Honduras. They consist of three islands: \n\nRosario Bank and Misteriosa Bank are north of the Swan Islands and separated from them by the > deep Cayman Trench.\n\nThe Swan Islands were discovered by Christopher Columbus in 1502 and named the \"Islas de las Pozas\". In the 18th Century, they were renamed the Swan Islands, after Captain Swan, the captain of the \"Cygnet\", whom pirates captured and forced to join them.\n\nAmerican entrepreneurs first started exporting guano as a fertilizer in the 1840s. The American-owned, New York-City-headquartered \"Atlantic and Pacific Guano Company\" was established in the 1840s and started exporting fertilizer, based on guano collected on the Swan Islands. In 1856, the United States apparently claimed the islands. In April 1857, John Valentine White claimed the islands, by virtue of the Guano Islands Act; later that year, he transferred all interest in these islands to Charles Sterns, Joseph W. Fabens, and Duff Green. Messers Sterns, Fabens, and Green incorporated the Atlantic and Pacific Guano Company, which issued 50,000 shares at a price of $100 each for a total capitalization of $5,000,000 in 1858. The company even issued currency, signed by William H. Whitfield, in 25-cent, 50-cent, and one-dollar denominations on June 1, 1867, to facilitate commerce on the islands.\n\nSubsequently, a chemical company bought the islands but became insolvent. Captain Alonzo Adams sailed there in 1893 and took possession of the islands; in 1904, he assigned ownership to the Swan Island Commercial Company. That company leased part of Great Swan Island to the United Fruit Company, which grew coconut palms and set up a wireless radio relay station for servicing their Caribbean fleet but eventually abandoned the lease. The Swan Island Commercial Company provided hurricane monitoring data from 1928 to 1932. The U.S. Weather Bureau manned a hurricane weather station on Great Swan from 1938 onward, but staffed it only during hurricane seasons.\n\nDuring World War II, both the U.S. Navy and the U.S. Weather Bureau stationed personnel on the island. In the late 1940s until 1949, Swan Island became a U.S. Department of Agriculture animal quarantine station for the importation of beef. In 1914, what now is the National Weather Service (NWS) and, later, the Federal Aviation Agency (FAA) set up meteorological and communication assets on Swan to support aeronautical services and hurricane-prediction activities. The FAA departed Swan Island in the 1960s, leaving the NWS all assets and responsibilities. \n\nHonduras claimed these islands from 1923, asserting that, because Columbus had discovered the islands while sailing for Spain, they should be owned by the nearest Spanish-speaking country. Both the United States and Honduras claimed the Swan Islands until the United States dropped its claim under the Guano Islands Act. A treaty was signed on November 22, 1971, and clear title by Honduras became effective September 1, 1972. The ownership of the island had long been in dispute. The Sumner Smith family has always maintained their ownership and, apparently, did have some standing in the U.S. courts. Nevertheless, the American government chose to abandon its claim despite this standing (ref. D S Platt, et al., NOAA-NWS). The islands gained notoriety in the early 1960s from the activities of Radio Swan, which began broadcasting in May 1960 during the preparation for and, later, the conduct of the Bay of Pigs Invasion of Cuba. The station was removed from the islands in the late 1960s, its main transmitter then transferred for use in the Vietnam War.\n\nIn 1965, Bellaire, Texas, police questioned a former Bellaire High School student about his role in a teenage \"army\" dedicated to freeing \"oppressed countries,\" the \"Houston Chronicle\" reported. The group, called the Kononiers, had been in existence for about five years, the student told the newspaper, and was armed through a series of burglaries of the Deep River Armory store. The weapons were taken to the Addicks Reservoir area, where they trained for combat. The youths were training for \"Operation Liberation Swan Island\" off Honduras.\n\nIn 1987, the \"Los Angeles Times\" reported that the CIA and other American governmental agencies had a covert training facility on Swan Island for Nicaraguan Contras. In 1989, the president of Honduras, Rafael Leonardo Callejas, declared the island a protected wildlife refuge.\n\nIn October 1998, Hurricane Mitch moved through the area with winds of .\n\nIn 2001, Swan Island Development, LLC, of Brooksville, Florida, announced plans to develop the Swan Islands by 2010, in partnership with the government of Honduras. Luxury real estate and hotels, valued at five billion dollars, were envisioned, with a main city named Cygnet. In 2004, Swan Island Development also announced plans to establish a human stem-cell research center.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1997019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997019", "title": "Broken China", "text": "Broken China\n\nBroken China is the second and final solo album by Pink Floyd keyboard player Richard Wright. \nThe album is a four-part concept album based on Wright's then-wife Mildred's battle with depression, and is very much like a classic Pink Floyd concept album in its structure and overall feel. Two songs, \"Reaching for the Rail\" and \"Breakthrough\" feature Sinéad O'Connor on lead vocals, with Wright singing elsewhere. The album was recorded in Wright's personal studio in France. \"Broken China\" was only Wright's second solo record after 1978's \"Wet Dream\" and the last to be released before his death in September 2008.\n\nWright's Pink Floyd bandmate David Gilmour agreed to play on \"Breakthrough.\" However, the approach for the song was changed later on, and Gilmour's performance was not used on the finished release.\n\nOn the DVD \"David Gilmour in Concert\", a guest appearance is made by Wright, who sings \"Breakthrough\" accompanied by David Gilmour and his band.\n\nThe packaging has artwork by Pink Floyd's regular designer, Storm Thorgerson, and Peter Curzon.\n\n\nExtended \"Runaway\" remixes, almost the double in length, exist and can be found on two \"The Orb Remix Project\" compilations:\n\n\nBoth remixes are the same, due to copyrights reasons these compilations have different tracks on the UK and USA versions. \"Runaway\" appears on both.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1997027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997027", "title": "Tall Ships America", "text": "Tall Ships America\n\nThe American Sail Training Association (ASTA), now known as Tall Ships America, is currently the largest sail training association in the world and a founding member of Sail Training International.\n\nFrom her humble beginnings with only a handful of vessels sailing the New England waters, Tall Ships America has grown into an international institution with more than 250 tall ships and sail training vessels representing 25 different countries and navigating all the world's oceans.\n\nASTA was founded by Barclay Harding Warburton III on April 3, 1973, by Barclay Harding Warburton III, following his return from The Tall Ships' Races in Europe in 1972 where he joined the USCGC \"Eagle\" with his brigantine \"Black Pearl\" as the first US vessels to participate in the races.\n\nA 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization, Tall Ships America's mission is to encourage character building through sail training, promote sail training to the North American public, and support education under sail.\n\nTall Ships America organizes the TALL SHIPS CHALLENGE Series, a series of sail training races, rallies and maritime festivals that rotate every three years around the Atlantic, Pacific and Great Lakes Coasts of North America. In 2016, the TALL SHIPS CHALLENGE series is in the Great Lakes. In 2015, the series was on the East Coast with stops in Cape Charles, VA, Philadelphia, PA/Camden, NJ, Greenport, NY and Portland, ME.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1997034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997034", "title": "Pat Butcher", "text": "Pat Butcher\n\nPat Evans (also Harris, Wicks and Butcher) is a fictional character from the BBC soap opera \"EastEnders\". She was played by Pam St Clement from 12 June 1986, just over a year after the show first aired, until her departure on 1 January 2012. Pat was also portrayed by Emma Cooke in a soap 'bubble' \"Pat and Mo: Ashes to Ashes\", delving into her past with sister-in-law Mo Harris (Laila Morse), which aired in 2004. The character was killed-off on 1 January 2012, shortly after being diagnosed with pancreatic cancer. Her funeral was on 13 January 2012. Pat was one of the longest serving characters on the show, being on it for twenty-five years and six months. She returned along with other women from Ian Beale's (Adam Woodyatt) past in a concussion-related dream sequence for a Children in Need special on 14 November 2014. She also made a return as a hallucination for Peggy Mitchell's (Barbara Windsor) death on 17 May 2016.\n\nPat is the youngest of four children. Her sister, Joan, had Down's syndrome, and was sent to a mental institution when Pat was four. Joan married Michael, who also had Down's. Their mother, Lydia, disowned Joan and claimed she had died at age 22.\n\nAfter leaving school at 15, Pat unsuccessfully tried to become a model. She and her best friend, Mo Porter (Laila Morse), entered a beauty contest in Clacton at 16, winning the title of \"Miss Butlins\". There she met Frank Butcher (Mike Reid), who was holidaying with his girlfriend, June Simmonds. Frank was besotted with Pat, and they slept together. Frank was the first of what would be many lovers in Pat's life, and so began a love affair. However, June became pregnant with Frank's child, so Frank married her, breaking Pat's heart. Pat and Frank would meet up from time to time, and on each occasion the affair would be rekindled, but Frank would not leave June. Pat began working for shady club owner Tony Cattani (Vas Constanti), who got her involved in prostitution. This shamed her family, particularly her brother Jimmy (Alex King), and their relationship suffered. When Pat discovered that Mo, now Jimmy's wife, had slept with Tony, she informed her brother; Mo denied it, and Jimmy subsequently disowned Pat. While working as a prostitute, Pat was offered more money to work for up-and-coming gangster Johnny Allen (Billy Murray). Pat then worked as a well-known woman of the underworld for many years.\n\nPat embarked on numerous relationships. She had flings with Den Watts (Leslie Grantham) and Kenny Beale (Michael Attwell)—both restless men, unwilling to settle down with her. Kenny's younger brother Pete (Peter Dean) proved more reliable; he married Pat when he thought she was pregnant by him—a false alarm which his mother Lou (Anna Wing) believed was Pat's ploy to trap her son. While they were together, Pat had two sons, David (Michael French) and Simon (Nick Berry), who Pete believed to be his. Yet Pat could not settle down and embarked on an affair with Brian Wicks (Leslie Schofield). Pete eventually left her and they divorced. Soon after, Pat married Brian and he took on responsibility of her two sons. They left Walford due to David's feud with fellow schoolboy Derek Branning (Terence Beesley; Jamie Foreman) who terrorised the entire family because David got his sister Carol (Lindsey Coulson) pregnant. They moved to Romford and Pat stayed with Brian until 1986, when he started physically abusing her.\n\nPat comes to Walford in June 1986, to tell Pete that he is not Simon's father. Many arguments erupt, but Lou steps in to convince a devastated Pete that Simon is his. When Pat starts work as a barmaid in The Queen Victoria pub later that year, she finds that Lou thinks Simon is Kenny's son, following an affair and she's adamant that Pat should keep this secret and not upset her close-knit family but Pete's twin sister Pauline Fowler (Wendy Richard) overhears and tells Pete everything.\n\nPat lives up to her promiscuous reputation and, with encouragement from Mehmet Osman (Haluk Bilginer), ends the year, prostituting herself. Animosity between Pat and Pete continues. When Pat is assaulted in February 1987 — left unconscious and close to death in the middle of the Square — Pete is prime suspect in the police investigation. He is later cleared when the real culprit, the Walford Attacker, is caught.\n\nThe arrival of Kenny in 1988 brings the question of Simon's parentage to the fore once again. Pat tells Simon and the Beale brothers that she does not know who is the father, adding further confusion. She also says that Den is a possibility but later rules Den out and demands that he has sex with her, or she will tell people that he is the father. That July, a dying Lou pleads with Pat to finally tell Simon the truth. Pat reveals that Brian, the man that Simon believed to be his stepfather, is actually his biological father. Following Lou's death, Pat forms a close friendship with her former foe, Kathy Beale (Gillian Taylforth), Pete's second wife. They find they had a common bond, with the dominance of Lou and Pete in their lives.\n\nFrank comes back into Pat's life in 1987. June has died and he and Pat reunite, taking over tenancy of The Queen Vic. Pat struggles as stepmother to Frank's children, particularly his youngest daughter, Janine Butcher (Rebecca Michael). On 22 June 1989, Pat and Frank marry in Cockney style, driving out of Albert Square in a horse-drawn cart. By the end of 1989, the Butchers have moved from The Queen Vic to the B&B across the Square, which Pat runs while Frank opens a used car lot. Despite family and marital problems, Frank and Pat are happy until 1992 when they begin to struggle financially, forcing them to sell the B&B. Pat tries to turn their fortunes around by starting a cab firm, PatCabs. However, disaster strikes on Christmas Eve that year, when Pat — doing a short run for a regular customer — hits a teenage girl who later dies from her injuries. She struggles to cope with the guilt, particularly when confronted by the girl's mother. When breathalysed, she is found to be just over the limit. When Pat appears in court several months later, she is imprisoned for six months. Pat returns in the autumn, but by then the Butchers are in financial ruin. In desperation, Frank pays Phil Mitchell (Steve McFadden) to torch the car lot in an insurance scam. When this goes wrong and a homeless boy dies, Frank has a breakdown and in April 1994, he abandons Pat and his children, leaving Pat destitute and heartbroken. Eventually, Frank's daughter Diane Butcher (Sophie Lawrence) brings news that Frank is alive, and so Pat begins getting on with her life.\n\nCar dealer Roy Evans (Tony Caunter) arrives in Albert Square and is attracted to Pat, but early attempts to woo her get him nothing but refusals. Pat later softens and goes on a cruise with him, although she makes it clear that sex is not on offer. Her carnal abstinence is a blessing for Roy, as he later admits he is impotent and can offer nothing more than platonic love. Pat is relieved to discover that, for once, a man wants something from her other than sex. In November 1995, Roy moves in with Pat, but on Christmas Day, Frank returns. Pat finds it hard to contain her rage and emotion when she sees her estranged husband, but despite him stirring up old feelings, she chooses to stay with Roy and they marry in 1996. Pat and Roy weather money problems, Roy's ill-health and depression, brought on by his jealousy of Pat and Frank's shared past, which almost makes him commit suicide in 1998. Pat finally convinces Roy that it was him she wants, although she finds it hard to let go of Frank completely. Frank goes on to marry Peggy Mitchell (Barbara Windsor), but he begins to have second thoughts in 2000, after realising that he still loves Pat.\n\nWhile Pat, Roy, Frank, Peggy, Terry Raymond (Gavin Richards) and Irene Raymond (Roberta Taylor) are holidaying in Spain, Frank seduces Pat. Pat tries to end the affair, but when Frank turns up on her doorstep naked (apart from a comedy bow-tie), she realises that she had never stopped loving him either. Their affair continues and they eventually decide to elope to Manchester. They are due to depart on Guy Fawkes Night in November 2000, when Pat has second thoughts. But it is too late — Peggy has already found Frank's farewell letter, and shames the cheating duo by reading it to the entire pub before slapping Frank and Pat. Peggy throws Frank out and he leaves Walford alone. Roy is initially willing to forgive Pat and explains that certain things have got to change but his son, Barry Evans (Shaun Williamson), alerts him to a suitcase containing massage oils, fishnet stockings, and a red Basque that Pat was planning to take with her for Frank. Roy is horrified and throws Pat out, leaving her penniless and homeless. Roy later asks Pat for a divorce and in February 2001, Pat decides to join Simon in New Zealand, but Roy follows her to the airport and tells her that he wants to be with her, despite Barry's objections. Grateful that Roy has given her a second chance, Pat is adamant that she will not mess things up again. However, in March 2003, Roy discovers that Pat knew that Barry's wife, Natalie Evans (Lucy Speed), was having an affair with Frank's son, Ricky Butcher (Sid Owen). Roy believes that Pat has again chosen to support Frank's offspring over his own, and the stress causes Roy's second and fatal heart attack. Roy dies intestate, leaving Pat bereft and homeless, as Barry — beneficiary of Roy's estate — evicts her, despite Pat's efforts to support Barry and help rebuild his life, after the double blow of his marriage break-up and the death of his father.\n\nPat moves into a bedsit. Janine (now played by Charlie Brooks) marries Barry and plans to con him out of all of his money and possessions. The day after the wedding, Janine admits everything and pushes Barry down a cliff to his death. She later brags about it to a disgusted Pat and starts to bully Laura Beale (Hannah Waterman). When Laura accidentally falls down the stairs and dies, Janine is arrested on suspicion of murder. Pat, who is Janine's alibi, lies to the police and so Janine is implicated as revenge for Barry's death. Pat is given a job at the bookies by gangster Andy Hunter (Michael Higgs) in 2004. They develop a rapport and when Andy is murdered by Johnny Allen (Billy Murray) in 2005, Pat is stunned to discover that he has left her his house in his will. Pat is summoned as a witness for the prosecution at Janine's trial in December 2005, where she meets Frank again. Once again, they have sex, but she soon realises that his primary motive is to convince her to alter her testimony at Janine's trial. Pat refuses, but Frank assures her that he will always love her.\n\nIn February 2006, missing male company, Pat begins flirting with Patrick Trueman (Rudolph Walker), who is married but unable to resist the chance at a casual fling with Pat. Stacey Slater (Lacey Turner) sees them together and tells Patrick's wife, Yolande (Angela Wynter), which ends the affair and ignites a feud between Pat and Yolande. In August 2007, Pat discovers her mother lied about the date of her sister Joan's death. She and a kind stranger, Len Harker (Christopher Ellison), break into Joan's care home and learn that Joan died only a few years earlier after marrying a man with Down's syndrome. Pat is touched to discover that Joan often spoke of how much she loved her. In March 2008, Pat announces she is leaving Walford for Spain, but gets news that Frank has died of throat cancer. She is devastated and despite initial feuding, she and Peggy support each other through Frank's funeral. Pat opts to remain in Walford when her granddaughter Bianca Jackson (Patsy Palmer) turns to her for help soon after, moving in with her four children. Having reconciled with one grandchild, Pat severs her bond with another when she discovers Steven Beale (Aaron Sidwell) is hiding his runaway half-sister, Lucy Beale (Melissa Suffield). Pat threatens to tell Lucy's father, Ian Beale (Adam Woodyatt), the truth and is hit by a car driven by Roxy Mitchell (Rita Simons) car whilst trying to apprehend Steven. She spends time in hospital, where Steven attempts to smother her before she can tell Ian. His plan fails, and Lucy returns to Ian.\n\nPat suffers a heart attack in January 2010 amidst increasing animosity with Janine. It is revealed that she has an underlying condition and needs a pacemaker but refuses to have the operation. Janine persuades Pat to have the pacemaker fitted and she makes a full recovery. Disgusted with the litter in Albert Square, Peggy and Pat both decide to run for council. They are interviewed by journalist Harvey Freeman (Martin Jarvis) but eventually they both pull out of the election. Harvey secretly woos them both, causing various rows between the women when they find out. They both finally unite against Harvey and humiliate him in punishment. Pat and Peggy's friendship strengthens, so Pat is hurt when Peggy leaves Walford without saying goodbye, upset to lose her best friend. When Pat discovers that Janine stabbed herself in order to frame Stacey after making the discovery that she killed Archie Mitchell (Larry Lamb), she disowns Janine and goes to New Zealand to visit Simon. She returns in April to find that Bianca is in prison and Whitney Dean (Shona McGarty) is missing, although she is relieved when Whitney returns home shortly after.\n\nWhen Pat discovers that Ricky and Janine's maternal grandmother, Lydia Simmonds (Margaret Tyzack; Heather Chasen), is staying with Janine, she believes that Janine is only interested in Lydia's inheritance and Janine jokingly admits this to Pat, although a close bond soon forms between Janine and Lydia. When Lydia dies in the night, Pat comforts Janine but later turns on her, believing that she killed Lydia to get her money, despite the fact Janine had already seen the will and knew that Lydia was donating her money to charity. When the police take Janine in for questioning over Lydia's death, Janine believes Pat phoned them, although it is later revealed that it was Ryan Malloy (Neil McDermott). Pat is still adamant that Janine murdered Lydia, which causes an emotional argument. When it is discovered that Lydia has changed her will and leaves her whole estate to Janine, Pat persuades Lydia's son Norman (George Layton) to contest the will. He initially agrees, but after Janine agrees to share the money with Ricky, Pat convinces him to change his mind. Although Norman likes Pat and wants to see her again, Pat is oblivious to this.\n\nWhen Pat discovers that Simon is about to lose his home in New Zealand, she fails to get a loan to help him because of her age. Norman offers to help and organises a loan for her. After speaking to her great-grandson Liam Butcher (James Forde), Pat decides she likes Norman, they kiss, and she asks him to stay. The next day Norman tells Patrick that he regularly earns commission for organising loans for people. Patrick then warns Pat about this, and once Pat finds out that the terms of the loan mean if she misses a payment she could lose her house, she rejects Norman, tells him to leave, and says she never wants to see him again. Derek arrives in Walford and recognises Pat. She runs away, but he chases her and forces his way into her home. Pat is fearful of Derek, and he taunts her, asking Pat if she is still a prostitute. Derek also tells her to tell David that he has not forgotten about their fight. When Roxy asks Pat about Derek's past, Pat confirms that he is dangerous. Pat struggles to keep up the loan repayments on her house, and counts on Ricky's bonus money to cover the debt. When Ricky returns from Dubai, he reveals that he has lost all his money, so Pat explains that they will lose the house by the end of the week if a payment is not made. A desperate Pat turns to Janine and asks for money. Janine gives her £50,000 without hesitation, but insists on Pat using the house as collateral, although this does not thaw the animosity between the pair. When Janine's boyfriend Michael Moon (Steve John Shepherd) spots Derek and Liam together, he forms an allegiance with Pat over their hatred of him and they proceed to call his probation officer to check up on him, infuriating Derek. He later confronts Pat, angrily threatening her. Shortly after, Patrick drops into Pat's and finds her collapsed on her kitchen floor. Pat is admitted to hospital having suffered a pulmonary embolus and the doctors run some tests but she discharges herself secretly, telling Ricky she has been allowed to go. Shortly after, Janine goes to see Pat, telling her she is moving the repayment deadline to the following day after an argument with Bianca. Pat rings Simon to find out whether he can pay her the money but is left horrified when he tells her his brother David slept with his wife. As her stress increases, Pat's chest pains continue and Patrick persuades her to return to the hospital. There, she is diagnosed with pancreatic cancer, which has metastasised to her lungs, bones and abdomen. Pat refuses all further palliative treatment and returns to Walford to be with her loved ones, sharing one last drink with her family and friends in The Queen Vic.\n\nOn New Year's Day 2012, Pat's health rapidly deteriorates and she is visited by old friends including Ian and Dot Branning (June Brown). Janine arrives to evict the family after Pat is unable to pay all her debts back but soon realises that Pat is not faking her illness and is devastated. Visiting her sick stepmother, Janine confesses to Pat that she is pregnant and Pat convinces her to keep the baby, before they finally reconcile. Later, David arrives to see Pat but the pair argue and David leaves, David is persuaded to return by Carol. David tells Pat that he is sorry for the mess he has made of things over the years. David then tells Pat that he forgives her for all the times she let him down when he was a child. Pat tells David that she is scared moments before she dies. Everybody on the Square mourns for Pat the next day, and Norman comes back with a bunch of flowers for her, not knowing that she has already died. Pat's funeral, which is paid for by Janine, takes place and is attended by many Albert Square residents. Simon turns up after the funeral has ended with flowers and lays them down at her grave. In September 2013, Peggy returns and visits Pat's house to say goodbye, leaving a bottle of gin on her doorstep.\n\nIn May 2016, Peggy returns to Walford with terminal cancer that has spread to her brain. As her senses are affected, she hallucinates that Pat is in her home and they reminisce about their shared past. Peggy asks her to never leave her and Pat promises this, as Peggy takes a fatal overdose of her medication.\n\nThe character of Pat was conceived by the creators of \"EastEnders\", Tony Holland and Julia Smith, in 1984. Although not one of the serial's original protagonists, Pat is referred to in the character outline of Pete Beale, who appeared on-screen in \"EastEnders\"' first episode, as written by Smith and Holland in their book, \"EastEnders: The Inside Story\": \"[Pete] married very young to Pat—it turned out to be a total disaster. They were too young, rushing into a difficult life for all the wrong reasons, and truthfully, [Pat] was a vicious shrew...[Pete] divorced [Pat] and married Kathy when he was 24...His two sons by his first marriage are nineteen and twenty and he hardly sees them...\"\n\nPat was first seen on-screen in June 1986, over a year after the show debuted. The character's introduction was the result of a deliberate policy \"to add an extra edge of toughness to the show.\" Prior to this point, Holland and Smith had begun to feel that \"EastEnders\" was starting to get \"a bit soft\". During a meeting with scriptwriters, the programme makers decided to try to recapture some of the soap's \"original grittiness that seemed to be getting lost in its own success\". Thus the character of Pat was introduced to \"add a new hardness to the atmosphere.\"\n\nPat, played by actress Pam St Clement, was initially introduced on a three-episode trial basis. She was given an extensive backstory, heavily intertwined with various focal characters within the serial, including all of the Beale and Fowler family who mostly disliked her, particularly her ex-husband Pete Beale (Peter Dean), her son Simon Wicks (Nick Berry), and Pete's mother Lou Beale (Anna Wing). In addition, she was an old friend of Angie Watts (Anita Dobson), a former lover of Angie's husband Den (Leslie Grantham) and, as a supposed former resident of Walford, she was known to many of the other regular characters such as Dot Cotton (June Brown) and Ethel Skinner (Gretchen Franklin).\n\nThe character's initial three-episode stint marked the beginning of what has been described as one of the soap's most complicated storylines, the paternity of Simon Wicks. Pat immediately \"threw a spanner in the works\" by telling Pete that he was not Simon's biological father, as she had previously claimed. After causing havoc Pat then disappeared; however, she was reintroduced later in the year, returning as a regular character, barmaid of The Queen Victoria public house. St. Clement had reservations about returning to the soap. In 1995 she told \"The Independent\", \"I couldn't envisage how this character, who creates absolute havoc everywhere she goes and is not at home with herself or with anybody else in the Square, could possibly fit in\". However, she was persuaded to continue by producer Julia Smith, who said: \"'We've only seen one layer of the onion skin—the defensiveness—now we'll start to peel away more and get to the vulnerability that lies behind it'.\"\n\nIn 1998, Pat and her friend Peggy develop a feud with each other after Frank had an affair with Peggy. An \"EastEnders\" insider said: \"Viewers will see the lot - tears, screaming and fighting. The romance has brought the studios to a standstill,\" said the insider. \"There are TV screens around Elstree where staff can see what is being filmed and it has literally stopped people in their tracks. For the two days it was being filmed, staff on the lot talked about nothing else. Frank and Peggy are two of the show's strongest, most popular characters and the writers have hit on the idea of bringing Pat, another of the show's big names, in on the plot. Devoting a whole episode to just two characters is a tactic which has proved successful in the past. \"We have used it for Michelle and Lofty and also for Dot Cotton and Lou Beale. St. Clement and Barbara are both first-class actresses and everyone at the BBC feels they will carry the explosive episode off with flying colours.\" The scenes showing the characters' first fight had to be cut in order to be broadcast before the 9pm watershed as they were \"powerful\" and still was one of the \"impressive episodes of all time\". Barbara Windsor told the \"Sunday Mirror\": \"The writer didn't want a namby- pamby cat fight between two silly girls. We were throwing chairs and bottles and the adrenaline was at a high. When I saw the programme I couldn't believe how good it was. Pam and I were really proud.\"\n\nIn an interview with \"TV Buzz\", Barbara Windsor commented on Pat and Peggy's relationship: \"I really loved Pat and Peggy's friendship, but my most memorable scenes involve us slapping each other; and we both really went for it! The fan mail we received would always go up a notch when they had a fight. We'd call each other everything under the sun too. Well, as far as we could go - obviously we couldn't swear. I'd love to have done a late-night episode - you'd have heard proper language then!\" She added: \"My favourite storyline was where Peggy whacked Pat and Frank in The Vic. I stood on my little box - because I'm so tiny - and bang! Pat's earring went flying, then I fell off the box! I did a Norman Wisdom trip. It was very funny.\n\nOn 7 July 2011, it was announced that St. Clement had quit \"EastEnders\". The actress revealed that she wanted to try other things, saying \"I have enjoyed 25 and a half wonderful years in \"EastEnders\" creating the character of Pat but feel it's time to hang up her earrings. Leaving the \"EastEnders\" 'family' will be akin to a bereavement. But I'm looking forward to the other work and life opportunities that I will have the time to pursue.\" Pat will leave later in the year and executive producer Bryan Kirkwood said her departure would be a \"fitting\" storyline. Pat's son David Wicks returned for her departure storyline. Pat was killed off in the special New Year's Day episode. St. Clement said she was pleased for a dramatic exit. She told \"The Sun\": \"They didn't just want me to say ta-ta and get on the No 30 bus because that wouldn't do me justice. They wanted something dramatic, a fitting tribute to the character.\" She said that the loss of Peggy, Pauline and herself would spell the end of the EastEnders \"matriarchs\". She added: \"A trio of people all of the same age leaving does leave a gap. Who is next in the age line? There isn't anyone.\" On 31 December 2011, it was announced that Pat would be getting her own exit theme. \"EastEnders\" music composer Simon May reworked the tune to create \"Pat's Theme\". An \"EastEnders\" insider told \"Digital Spy\": \"It's only right that as we say goodbye to the iconic Pat Evans we pay tribute to such a character with a wonderfully touching special theme tune. As we say farewell to a legend of over 26 years, we welcome in what will be a truly remarkable New Year in E20 by adding the Olympic Park into the opening title sequence.\"\n\nBarbara Windsor who played Peggy Mitchell predicted that Pat would be \"sorely missed\" by fans. Speaking of Pat's exit, Windsor told \"This Morning\": \"Oh, I can't bear it - Pam! And she will be sorely missed - more than I was missed in the show, because she could go to anybody - any family she could go into. I am devastated.\" She definitely wanted to leave, but I don't know if she wanted to be killed off - that's the chance you have to take,\" Windsor continued. \"I was positive that I was going to go up in a load of flames with The Vic - I thought that was going to happen, but of course it didn't. With Pam, I was very, very surprised, because she could always go back. But she's accepted it now and she'll have a new life.\"\n\nSt. Clement stated that she didn't want her character to die, but said her final scenes were \"fantastic\". St. Clement commented: \"Simon Ashdown had this idea for the character, which fitted in with her history in a sense,\" she explained. \"They said, 'This is how we'd like it to happen - we think it's a fitting end and tribute to the character'. And as far as I can say, I read the script and I thought, 'Oh, this is fantastic - it's every actor's dream'. And I have to say, it also challenged me in a way that I hadn't been challenged. It was moving, it was challenging and it was a script that I needed to get my teeth into. The script, the performances, the direction - it all turned out to be a fantastic ensemble piece, if you like… Everybody was pulling in, everybody was doing the most wonderful performances and it was fantastic.\"\n\nSt. Clement said she was \"moved\" by the \"Farewell Pat\" tribute. Speaking on \"Daybreak\", St. Clement explained: \"I wasn't going to watch [the final episode] with anybody - I was going to record it and then watch it in a darkened room somewhere, where I could be terribly critical and jump about saying, 'Stupid woman - why did you play it like that?' But everybody said, 'Oh no, sit down'. I said, 'I don't want to disturb you all' - but I did make myself behave! And I was quite dispassionate, actually. The strange thing is, after I read the script, I was very moved by it. But as soon as I started working on it, I think everybody did start getting quite emotional - but I couldn't. Even about myself leaving - people in the cast would come up and say, 'How do you feel?' and I'd say, 'I can't go there, I can't think about that, because the work's not finished'. The strange thing is, the only thing that moved me was the Farewell Pat programme. Which is strange, but I suppose that was personal in a sense.\" Also, St. Clement explained the experience of filming her final episode. She added: \"It was a great challenge, that script,\" she commented. \"I looked at it and thought, 'Oh, heck, how do I give light and shade to something where somebody is actually dying?' And some of the scenes could have been interpreted as being somewhat similar with Janine and David. So I had to make them different - but I had to make them different within the confines of the illness.\"\n\nIt was later confirmed that \"EastEnders\" would air a special tribute episode to Pat after her funeral episode on 13 January 2012. An \"EastEnders\" insider commented: \"Pat is EastEnders - she was the heart and soul of the show and bosses have pulled out all the stops for her funeral. Not only is the episode extra long, with plenty of nods to the iconic lady, it really is the end of the earring. We are hoping that everyone dons their biggest and tackiest earrings to mark one of the saddest days in the history of Walford.\" Co-star Lindsey Coulson said that Pat's departure was a \"real-loss\". She told \"This Morning\": \"They were really difficult scenes to play, because we didn't want Pam to leave,\" Coulson explained. \"So apart from not wanting to lose the wonderful character of Pat, we were mourning the loss of Pam. \"You don't see everybody all the time [at \"EastEnders\"] at all, and sometimes you can go for months without seeing somebody. And most of the time you're on this big wheel and when people leave, you go, 'Oh, that's really sad', but you get back on. But actually Pam is a real loss up there.\"\n\nFormer \"EastEnders\" cast member Martin Kemp said that the decision for Pat to leave was the \"right\" thing to do. He told \"Bang Showbiz\": \"I still watch \"EastEnders\" from time to time. I did quite a few scenes with Pam, I remember we spent three or four days locked in a cellar once so we had quite some scenes. She's a great actress, I'm sure she'll go on to other things. I think she's making the right move, it's nice to spread your wings a bit. Although viewers will miss her I don't think anyone is bigger than the show, it doesn't matter who comes or who goes. When I was there I always thought the star of the show was and always will be the pub, The Queen Vic. Everything else is an extra around it.\"\n\nThe character of Pat has been spoofed in the cartoon sketch series \"2DTV\". The impressionist who provides the voice is Jan Ravens, Who has not only provided the voice of Pat, but also acted the part on-screen in several episodes of the BBC's \"Big Impression\", which devoted a regular sketch to various \"EastEnders\" characters, and she also played Pat in the other impressionist series \"Dead Ringers\". \"The Impressions Show with Culshaw and Stephenson\" also contains sketches where impressionist Debra Stephenson portrays Pat in situations, often with \"Coronation Street\" character Ken Barlow, played by Jon Culshaw. She is also the frequent target of jokes in \"Harry Hill's TV Burp\", usually alluding to her former prostitution and alleged sexual promiscuity. Comedian Lee Evans had once used Pat as one of his jokes in his tour \"Live at the O2 Arena\". In the first episode of Series 3 of \"The Inbetweeners\", Jay gets his ears pierced with large round earrings and is mocked by his friend Simon Cooper, who calls it the ‘Pat Butcher look’.\n"}
{"id": "1997035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997035", "title": "Roger Gaudry", "text": "Roger Gaudry\n\nRoger Gaudry, (December 15, 1913 – October 7, 2001) was a chemist, businessman, corporate director, and former rector of the Université de Montréal.\n\n=Early life and education=\n\nBorn in Quebec City, Quebec, he received a Bachelor of Science (B.Sc.) in Chemistry in 1937 and a Doctor of Science (D.Sc.) in Chemistry in 1940 from Université Laval. A Rhodes scholar, he attended the University of Oxford from 1937 to 1939.\n\n=Career=\n\nFrom 1940 to 1945, he was Assistant Professor of Chemistry in the Faculty of Medicine at Université Laval. He was appointed Associate Professor in 1945 and Professor in 1950.\n\nIn 1954, he became Assistant Director of Research at Ayerst, McKenna & Harrison Ltd. in Montréal From 1957 to 1965, he was Director and Vice-President from 1963 to 1965. From 1965 to 1975, he served as the rector of the Université de Montréal.\n\nHe was a member of the Board of Directors of the following companies: Connaught Laboratories Ltd., CDC Life Sciences Inc., Bank of Montreal, Alcan, Hoechst Canada, S.K.W. Canada Ltd., Bio-Recherche Ltée, Corby Distilleries Ltd, and St. Lawrence Starch Co. Ltd.\n\nFrom 1983 to 1995, he was President of the Fondation Jules et Paul-Emile Léger, a Canadian charity which supports groups that help restore human dignity to those who have been rejected by society.\n\n=Honours=\n\n=References=\n"}
{"id": "1997037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997037", "title": "Charmides", "text": "Charmides\n\nCharmides (; ), son of Glaucon, was an Athenian statesman who flourished during the 5th century BC. An uncle of Plato, Charmides appears in the Platonic dialogue bearing his name (\"Charmides\"), the \"Protagoras\", and the \"Symposium\", as well as in Xenophon's \"Symposium\", \"Memorabilia\", and \"Hellenica\". A wealthy orphan raised by his first cousin, Critias, his property was confiscated for his role in profaning the Eleusinian Mysteries in 415 BC. He is commonly listed as one of the Thirty Tyrants who ruled Athens following its defeat in the Peloponnesian War, but evidence points only to his having been one of the ten men appointed by the Thirty to govern the Piraeus. He was killed in the Battle of Munichia in 403 BC when the democrats returned to Athens.\n\nThis Charmides was probably not the same man as the father of the great Athenian sculptor Phidias, also named Charmides.\n"}
{"id": "1997039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997039", "title": "Bill Bruton", "text": "Bill Bruton\n\nWilliam Havon Bruton (November 9, 1925 – December 5, 1995) was a Major League Baseball (MLB) center fielder who played for the Milwaukee Braves (1953–1960) and Detroit Tigers (1961–1964). Bruton batted left-handed and threw right-handed.\n\nBruton started his major league career in 1953, as the Braves franchise moved from Boston to Milwaukee. On April 14, 1953, his 10th-inning home run gave the Braves a 3–2 victory over the St. Louis Cardinals in Milwaukee's first major league game.\n\nBruton played in Milwaukee for eight seasons; he was a member of the 1957 Braves and 1958 Braves, who both played World Series against the New York Yankees. Bruton did not play in the 1957 World Series, which the Braves won in seven games, due to a knee injury sustained earlier in the season. In the 1958 World Series, which the Braves lost in seven games, Bruton hit a game-winning single in the tenth inning of Game 1. He played in all seven games of the Series, batting 7-for-17 (.412) with a home run and two RBIs. On August 2, 1959, Bruton hit two bases-loaded triples in one game. The feat had only been accomplished once before (Elmer Valo, 1949) and has only been accomplished once since (Duane Kuiper, 1978).\n\nIn December 1960, Bruton was traded to the Detroit Tigers, where he spent four seasons before retiring after the 1964 season.\n\nIn his twelve-year major league career, Bruton posted an overall .273 batting average with 94 home runs and 545 run batted in in 1,610 games. He finished his career with a .981 fielding percentage. A line-drive hitter and a fleet-footed runner, Bruton led the National League in stolen bases for three consecutive seasons (1953 through 1955), twice in triples (1956 and 1960), and once in runs scored (1960). He led off a game with a home run twelve times.\n\nBruton's minor league milestones include;\n\nBruton was a graduate of Parker High School in Birmingham, Alabama, and served in the Army from 1944 through 1947. \n\nHe was a spokesman for Tareyton cigarettes in the 1960s. \n\nIn 1991, Bruton was inducted into the Delaware Sports Museum and Hall of Fame.\n\nAccording to a Delaware State Police report, Bruton suffered a heart attack while driving his car in Marshallton, Delaware, near his home in Wilmington on December 5, 1995. Apparently, Bruton's car veered off the road and hit a pole; after which he was pronounced dead at a local hospital. He was 70.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1997048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997048", "title": "Bohemian Crown Jewels", "text": "Bohemian Crown Jewels\n\nThe Bohemian Crown Jewels, also called the Czech Crown Jewels (), include the Crown of Saint Wenceslas (\"Svatováclavská koruna\"), the royal orb and sceptre, the coronation vestments of the Kings of Bohemia, the gold reliquary cross, and St. Wenceslas' sword. They were originally held in Prague and Karlštejn Castle, designed in the 14th century by Matthias of Arras. Since 1791 they have been stored in St. Vitus Cathedral at Prague Castle. Reproductions of the jewels are permanently exhibited in the historical exposition at the former royal palace in the castle. The crown was made for the coronation of Charles IV in 1347, making it the fourth oldest in Europe.\n\nThe crown has an unusual design, with vertical fleurs-de-lis standing at the front, back and sides. Made from 22-carat gold and a set of precious 19 sapphires, 30 emeralds, 44 spinels, 20 pearls, 1 ruby, 1 rubellite and 1 aquamarine, it weighs 2475g. At the top of the crown is the cross, which reportedly stores a thorn from Christ's crown of thorns.\n\nThe Royal sceptre is made from 18-carat gold, 4 sapphires, 5 spinels and 62 pearls with an extra large spinel mounted on top of the sceptre; it weighs 1013g. The Royal orb is also made from 18-carat gold, 8 sapphires, 6 spinels and 31 pearls. It weighs 780g and is decorated with wrought relief scenes from the Old Testament and the Book of Genesis. The Coronation robe was used from 1653 until 1836. It is made from precious silky red material called \"zlatohlav\" and is lined with ermine (fur of the stoat). The robe is stored separately from jewelry in a specially air conditioned repository.\n\nFor the coronation ceremonies, St. Wenceslas' sword, a typical Gothic weapon, was used. The first mention of the sword reported in historical records is in 1333, but the blade dates back to the 10th century, while the hilt is from the 13th century and textiles are probably from the time of Charles IV. The iron blade length is 76 cm, at the widest point is 45 mm and has a ripped hole in a cross shape (45 x 20 mm). The wooden handle is covered with yellow-brown fabric and velvet embroidered with the ornament of laurel twigs with thick silver thread. After coronation ceremonies, the sword was used for the purpose of granting knighthoods.\n\nThe oldest leather case for the crown was made for Charles IV in 1347. On top are inscribed four symbols: the Imperial eagle, Bohemian lion, the coat of arms of Arnošt of Pardubice and emblem of the Archbishopric of Prague.\n\nThe door to Crown Jewels chamber, and likewise the iron safe, is hardly accessible and has seven locks. There are seven holders of the keys: the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister, the Prague Archbishop, the Chairman of the House of Deputies, the Chairman of the Senate, the Dean of the Metropolitan Chapter of St. Vitus Cathedral and the Mayor of Prague, who must all convene to facilitate opening the impenetrable door and coffer.\n\nThe crown is named and dedicated after the Duke St. Wenceslaus of the Přemyslids dynasty of Bohemia. The jewels should be permanently stored in the chapel of St. Wenceslaus in St. Vitus. They were only lent to Kings, and only on the day of the coronation, and should be returned in the evening that day. After 1918 and the establishment of the Czechoslovak Republic the Coronation Jewels ceased to serve their original function, but remained important as symbols of national independence and statehood. \n\nIn the past, the Jewels were kept in different places, but have been always brought to royal coronations in Prague. Wenceslaus IV (1378-1419) probably moved them to Karlštejn Castle. They were then repeatedly moved for safety reasons: in the 17th century, they were returned to Prague Castle, during the Thirty Years' War (1631) they were sent to a parish church in České Budějovice, and then they were secretly taken to the Imperial Treasury, Vienna (1637). While the Jewels were stored in Vienna, the original gold orb and sceptre from the 14th century were replaced with current ones. The new orb and sceptre probably originated with an order by Ferdinand I in 1533. Possible reasons for this replacement might be that the originals were simply too austere, and lacked any precious stones. Deemed unrepresentative of the prestige of the Kingdom of Bohemia, it made sense to replace them with an orb and sceptre in an ornate, jeweled style that resembled the crown.\nThe Jewels were brought back to Prague on the occasion of the coronation of Bohemian king Leopold II in 1791. At that time, the current tradition of seven keys was established, though the holders of the keys in the course of time were changed according to political and administrative structures. The jewels were kept in Vienna due to the threat from the Prussian Army, but were later returned to Prague, arriving in the city on 28 August 1867.\n\nAccording to the ancient tradition and regulations laid down by Charles the Fourth in the 14th century, the Jewels are exhibited only to mark special occasions. Exhibitions can take place only at the Prague Castle. In the 20th century there were nine such moments in history. The President of the Republic has the exclusive right to decide on the display of the Crown Jewels.\n\nAn ancient Czech legend says that any usurper who places the crown on his head is doomed to die within a year. This legend is supported by a rumor that Reinhard Heydrich, the Nazi governor of the puppet state Protectorate of Bohemia and Moravia secretly wore them, and was assassinated less than a year later by the Czech resistance.\n\nIf not mentioned coronation was held in Prague.\nKings and queens crowned by Crown of Saint Wenceslas (and other crown jewels):\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1997049", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997049", "title": "John J. Donovan", "text": "John J. Donovan\n\nJohn J. Donovan (born February 12, 1942) is a former management professor at MIT, and the current president and chief executive of the Cambridge Technology Group, an executive training company.\n\nDonovan attended Lynn English High School. He obtained two master's degrees - one in engineering and one in science, and a PhD - from Yale University. He subsequently was a Ford Postdoctoral Fellow at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), In 1977, he became a tenured professor at MIT.\n\nHe authored multiple computer science textbooks, including \"Systems Programming\" (1972) and \"Operating Systems\" (1974), and his research focused on early work in operating systems, databases, and later applications of IT to business. He also wrote business textbooks such as \"Business Re-engineering with Information Technology\" (1994) and \"Business & Technology: A Paradigm Shift\" (1993). Donovan and his son, John Jr co-authored a book titled \"The Second Industrial Revolution\" (1997).\n\nDonovan also served as an assistant clinical professor of pediatrics at Tufts University School of Medicine. Donovan later lectured on Strategic Computing in Government while at Harvard University. He received the first Honorary Doctorate in Economics from the University of Economics, Prague since the breakup of the Soviet Union.\n\nDonovan started his business career by providing technical training for AT&T computer business personnel. Later courses shifted towards sales and strategy training to executives. This led to Donovan devising a method of helping companies meet their customers' needs through workshops which he ran for various companies including.\n\nThrough these workshops Donovan founded many companies including: Cambridge Technology Group, One Wave, Open Environment Corporation, Cambridge Technology Partners, and CellExchange.\n\nMultiple individuals have had problems collecting money from loans that have been given to Donovan. Former student and associate Stuart Madnick sued for $1.4 million, then later settled. Donovan and other executives from his company have also been taken to court by 10 subcontractors who claim that he was so eager to hire them for an important workshop for Citigroup that he asked them to begin working the very day he offered them the job; in their pending case, they alleged that Donovan's company failed to pay them a total of $181,000.\n\nA lawsuit was filed by Donovan's son, John Jr, who claimed that his father had owed him $4.8 million for repayment of a loan. When John Jr took legal action to force repayment, Donovan claimed he owed him nothing. An arbitrator in the case, a former federal judge, ordered Donovan Sr to repay the loan. “I find that John Jr. was a truthful and credible witness”, he wrote, “and I find the testimony of Donovan, Sr to be unworthy of belief and false in all material respects”.\n\nIn court proceedings regarding the event in which Donovan shot himself, Judge Martin was quoted as saying Donovan \"deliberately lied\". Additionally, based upon the result of the proceedings \"the grand jury not first to find Donovan challenged by the truth\".\n\nIt has been found that Professor Donovan has attempted to defraud his children and state record keepers by doctoring legal documents, an arbitrator overseeing the family's litigation has stated in a scathing opinion. The arbitrator, Judge Martin states in the opinion: “[H]e conceived a fraud that had him representing that all he wanted to do was fulfill John’s dying wishes, when in fact he was doctoring videotapes, audiotapes and legal documents in a manner that was so childish that even the least intelligent of us would never believe that what he was proposing was anything that John would have wanted”, \n\nIn March 2016, a law firm \"obtained a $1.2 million default judgment against him for unpaid legal fees\". He is also being accused of misusing funds raised for a startup called SendItLater, Inc. for personal use. The shareholder suit alleges that Donovan used \"the firm to support his own lifestyle and not for the benefit of the company, in which he made no financial investment of his own\".\n\nIn 1978, Donovan was a collaborator in the development of a birth defect information system for Tufts University School of Medicine.\n\nIn 2001, Donovan established a $50,000 scholarship (John J. Donovan Family Scholarship) at Yale University. Through his charitable organization Children's Potential Unlimited, he donated computers to Connery Elementary School in Lynn, Massachusetts.\n\nIn 2009, Donovan was recognized by the Essex County Trail Association for his land conservation work. Donovan has also done land conservation work in Vermont.\n\nDonovan was born in Lynn, Massachusetts to John J. Sr and Madeline Donovan. John J. Sr was an elementary school teacher and part-time police officer, and Madeline was a social worker. Donovan has mentioned that his father passed down a strong love for teaching. At Lynn High, a teacher noticed his unique ability to find patterns of mathematics and replicate them, and asked him to teach his peers. Inspired by the opportunity, Donovan credits this empowerment as life-changing. His wife is Linda Donovan.\n\nIn a 2004 article, Professor Donovan's son, John Jr. was quoted saying, \"What we have learned about dad is monstrous, and we should have nothing to do with him\".\n\nIn August 2007, Donovan was fined $625 for filing a false police report, and was found guilty of staging his own shooting. Middlesex Superior Court Judge Kenneth Fishman was quoted as saying \"Mr. Donovan's behavior . . . can be described as nothing short of bizarre and premeditated\". It was further determined that John J. Donovan purposefully altered the viewing angles of the surveillance cameras in the areas where the crime was committed. Video footage taken a few days before the attack showed Donovan redirecting a security camera in the car park, an indication, prosecutors argued, that Donovan had staged the shooting. According to Attorney General Martha Coakley and testimony at Donovan's trial, Donovan shot himself in the abdomen, shot up his own minivan, kept a spent bullet in his mouth, rearranged a surveillance camera to prevent the recording of his hoax, and laid out the entire plan in a form of shorthand on the dinner menu of the Algonquin Club to which he belonged. Police found the \"to-do\" list in his pocket.\n\nDuring these same proceedings the judge ordered Donovan to stay away from his four eldest children and their families. This was in part, due to the fact that one of John J. Donovan's daughters alleged she has been sexually assaulted by her father. She was joined by all but one of her siblings in seeking a separation agreement from their father. Even the son who did not join the action, John Jr, has said in court papers that he wants nothing to do with his father.\n\nJohn Donovan, Sr is subject to a lifetime Stay Away Order of the Massachusetts Superior Court dated July 9, 2009 as amended November 2, 2016. He must never be within of his children, their spouses and children (Donovan's grandchildren), and his daughter-in-law and her children (Donovan's grandchildren).\n\nSignificant policing resources were required to investigate the allegations that someone had attacked John J. Donovan, when in reality he had shot himself. A spokesman for the Cambridge Police Department, Frank Pasquarello, was quoted as saying \"There are a lot of people who worked hard that night (of the shooting,)\". He went to say \"Have him come over and rake their leaves\".\n\nIn court proceedings that have been adjudicated, many elements of Professor Donovan's personal relationships with his children have been brought to light. Specifically, his son, John Jr.had concerns in ensuring that his widow and children would be protected from his father. Specifically, John Jr. wanted to record his issues so that they could not be left open to interpretation. \"So Donovan Jr., the owner of the Manchester Athletic Club and of millions of dollars worth of other holdings, carefully documented his final wishes, in writing and on video. What he didn’t know was that his father was also, secretly, recording him — recordings that Donovan Sr admitted during a hearing last fall that he had been 'cutting and pasting' together, newly filed court documents say.\" Professor Donovan then took the videos that he recorded and doctored them in such a way as to indicate that John Jr. desired to leave millions of dollars to his father, which was absolutely false.\n\nAs part of these recordings, John Jr. even went so far as to indicate that he did not want his father to even attend his funeral, a true indication of the relationship between Professor Donovan and his children. This is specifically outlined in this quote: “The only references to Professor Donovan in John, Jr.’s estate planning documents concern John, Jr.’s wishes that Professor Donovan have no contact whatsoever with John, Jr.’s children, and that he not attend John, Jr.’s funeral”, wrote Martin, a former federal judge. An arbitrator in the dispute proposed \"an order barring Donovan Sr. from using his late son’s name and image under any circumstances — including a purported fundraising campaign he was allegedly conducting in his son’s name\".\nOn December 9, 2017, Donovan was indicted on \"seven counts of forgery and single counts of attempted larceny\" for faking \"the signature of his late son, John J. Donovan III, to the codicil of his will. These charges are also indicative of the attempts of Professor Donovan to cheat his grandchildren and widowed daughter-in-law out of property. Professor Donovan is facing seven counts of forgery and single counts of attempted larceny, obtaining a signature key by false pretenses, and witness intimidation among other charges, according to a statement from the Essex district attorney's office. The elder Donovan’s actions allegedly allowed him to gain the titles of properties in Hamilton, Manchester, Beverly, and Essex, according to the DA’s office.\" \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1997061", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997061", "title": "Beate Uhse AG", "text": "Beate Uhse AG\n\nBeate Uhse AG is a German industry group which focuses on selling adult entertainment in the form of sex toys, lingerie, clothing and pornography. It is the most successful company in the German sex industry, and the country's leading pornography retailer. \n\nIt operates in the three business units \"Retail\", \"Mail Order\" and \"Wholesale\". The \"Entertainment\" division was sold to \"tmc Content Group AG\" in September 2016.\n\nIt currently has over 1,500 employees. It is active in 60 countries and has been listed on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange since 1999. Uhse remained the chairwoman of the company until her death in 2001. In 2004, Beate opened the first Mae B. shop, a chain of sex shops specifically aimed at female consumers. In 2004, the combined sales of the Beate Uhse industry group was €280 million, making it the largest distributor of adult-related entertainment and products in the world. Profits have dropped significantly between 2006 and 2007.\n\nAs of 30 September 2007, the company employed 1,425 people and generated sales of just under €271 million in 2006. In 2009, just under €231 million were implemented, the number of employees at the end of the year 1,222. In 2010, €197.7 million were implemented, the number of employees was 975. In 2012, €144 million were still implemented, the number of employees was 704. In 2015, sales amounted to €128 million. The number of employees was 600 in 2016. 150 jobs are to be reduced. 16 of the 78 stores, including 3 in Germany, are to be closed.\n\nIt was founded by former German war-time pilot and sex pioneer Beate Uhse-Rotermund in 1946 and started out as a distributor of pamphlets on family planning called \"Schrift X\" (\"Document X\") which was a major success. In 1962, the company opened the world's first sex shop in Flensburg, West Germany. When pornography was finally made legal in West Germany in 1976, Beate Uhse was well-prepared with a widely known and respected brand name and an established mail order business. By 1992, it owned 30 sex shops and 25 cinemas, had a turnover of 100 million Deutschmarks, and 10 million customers visited its premises.\n\nOn 15 December 2017, the company filed for bankruptcy in self-government.\n"}
{"id": "1997071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997071", "title": "William S. Hebbard", "text": "William S. Hebbard\n\nWilliam Sterling \"Will\" Hebbard (1863–1930) was an American architect most noted for his work in San Diego County, California.\n\nHebbard briefly worked as a draftsman and assistant for the firm, Burnham and Root in Chicago, and in 1888 for Curlett, Eisen and Cuthbertson in Los Angeles. By 1890 he was in private practice in San Diego. In 1891, he became associated with the Reid Brothers firm, noted designers of Hotel Del Coronado and took over their San Diego projects when that firm moved to San Francisco. In 1898, he formed a well known partnership with Irving Gill. The Hebbard & Gill firm arguably produced San Diego's best architecture until its breakup in 1907.\n\nHebbard produced work in an eclectic variety of styles, including Richarsonian Romantic, Mission Revival, Arts and Crafts, Tudor Revival and Cubist Modern, He is most regarded for his designs for private residences, but did good work on commercial structures. During World War I he entered the Army Transport Service and worked until 1922 as a design consultant for military shipbuilding. After his service with the Army, he moved to Los Angeles and practiced architecture sporadically until his death in August, 1930.\n\nBorn in Milford, Michigan, April 16, 1863, Hebbard spent his early years in Michigan and then attended prep school in Rochester, New York. In 1887, Hebbard graduated from Cornell's School of Architecture.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1997076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997076", "title": "Angélique (novel series)", "text": "Angélique (novel series)\n\nAngelique (original Angélique) is a series of 13 French historical adventure books by the novelist duo Anne and Serge Golon. The first 10 books have been adapted into English while numbers 11-13 have not. Some of these books were then adapted into 5 popular movies.\n\nThe eponymous protagonist is a 17th-century woman born into the provincial aristocracy in the west of France. In successive books she marries at a young age the romantic and talented Count of Toulouse; gets her domestic bliss destroyed when King Louis XIV has her husband executed on trumped up charges; descends into the underworld of Paris; emerges and through a turbulent second marriage gets admittance to the court at Versailles; loses her second husband in war, just as she had started to truly love him, and subsequently refuses to become the King's mistress; finds that her first husband is after all alive but is hiding somewhere in the Mediterranean; sets out on a highly risky search, gets captured by pirates, sold into slavery in Crete, taken into the harem of the King of Morocco, stabs the King when he tries to have sex with her, and stages a daring escape along with a French slave who becomes her lover; gets back to France, only to be put under house arrest in her ancestral home and raped by rampaging royal soldiers, which arouses the province to a rebellion which is brutally put down; finds refuge with a Huguenot family and - just as they are threatened by the Revocation of the Edict of Nantes - is saved in the nick of time by her long-lost first husband appearing at La Rochelle and taking them all to America in his ship; and being reunited also with her children, which she thought dead but were alive and well in America. Then follows many more adventures in colonial North America - specifically, in French Acadia - involving French and English settlers, Indians and pirates.\n\n\nThe movies were joint production of France, Italy and Germany. Director of the movies was Bernard Borderie and the main cast was Michèle Mercier as \"Angélique Sancé de Monteloup\" and Robert Hossein as \"Jeoffrey de Peyrac\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1997079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997079", "title": "Arthur Gelber", "text": "Arthur Gelber\n\nArthur Ellis Gelber, (June 22, 1915 – January 1, 1998) was a Canadian philanthropist.\n\nEducated at Upper Canada College, from 1977 to 1980, he was Chair of the Board of Trustees of the National Arts Centre.\n\nIn 1989, he established the Lionel Gelber Prize in honour of his brother.\n\nIn 1972, he was made an Officer of the Order of Canada and was promoted to Companion in 1994. In 1995, he was awarded the Ramon John Hnatyshyn Award for Voluntarism in the Performing Arts.\n\nHe was married to Esther Salomon. They had four daughters: Nancy, Patricia, Judith, and Sara.\n"}
{"id": "1997082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997082", "title": "Department of Economic Development (New Brunswick)", "text": "Department of Economic Development (New Brunswick)\n\nThe Department of Economic Development is a department in the Government of New Brunswick. It is charged with stimulating economic prosperity and global competitiveness in the province.\n\nCreated in 1944 during war time as the Department of Industry and Reconstruction, the Department has since had several name changes and has been known as the Department of Industry, Department of Economic Growth, and Department of Economic Development, Tourism and Culture.\n\nThe department was renamed Business New Brunswick on March 23, 2000 when Premier Bernard Lord restructured the New Brunswick Cabinet. It was created by subdividing the then Department of Economic Development, Tourism and Culture. It was enlarged on October 9, 2001 when it absorbed the Department of Investment and Exports which has also been originally created from Economic Development, Tourism and Culture.\n\nOn October 12, 2010, then premier David Alward named a Minister of Economic Development with responsibility for Business New Brunswick. The name of the department was officially changed to the Department of Economic Development on December 17, 2010.\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki>Doucet was minister of industry and reconstruction until 1948 and was thereafter minister of industry and development.\n\n"}
{"id": "1997085", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997085", "title": "Bela Lugosi filmography", "text": "Bela Lugosi filmography\n\nBela Lugosi (1882–1956), best known for the original screen portrayal of Bram Stoker's Dracula in 1931, was in many movies during the course of his career. The following list is believed complete.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1997086", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997086", "title": "Leukodystrophy", "text": "Leukodystrophy\n\nLeukodystrophies are a group of usually inherited disorders characterized by degeneration of the white matter in the brain. The word \"leukodystrophy\" comes from the Greek roots \"leuko\", \"white\", \"dys\", \"abnormal\" and \"troph\", \"growth\". The leukodystrophies are caused by imperfect growth or development of the myelin sheath, the fatty insulating covering around nerve fibers. Leukodystrophies may be classified as hypomyelinating or demyelinating diseases, depending on whether the damage is present before birth or occurs after. Other demyelinating diseases are usually not congenital and have a toxic or autoimmune cause.\n\nWhen damage occurs to white matter, immune responses can lead to inflammation in the central nervous system (CNS), along with loss of myelin. The degeneration of white matter can be seen in an MRI scan and used to diagnose leukodystrophy. Leukodystrophy is characterized by specific symptoms including decreased motor function, muscle rigidity, and eventual degeneration of sight and hearing. While the disease is fatal, the age of onset is a key factor, as infants have a typical life expectancy of 2–8 years, while adults typically live more than a decade after onset. Treatment options are limited, although hematopoietic stem cell transplantations using bone marrow or cord blood seem to help in certain types while further research is being done.\n\nThe combined incidence of the leukodystrophies is estimated at 1 in 7,600. The majority of types involve the inheritance of an X-linked recessive, or X-linked dominant trait, while others, although involving a defective gene, are the result of spontaneous mutation rather than genetic inheritance.\n\nSome specific symptoms vary from one type of leukodystrophy to the next, but the vast majority of symptoms are shared as the causes for the disease generally have the same effects. Symptoms are dependent on the age of onset, which is predominantly in infancy and early childhood, although the exact time of onset may be difficult to determine. Hyperirritability and hypersensitivity to the environment are common, as well as some tell-tale physical signs including muscle rigidity and a backwards-bent head. Botox therapy is often used to treat patients with spasticity. Juvenile and adult onsets display similar symptoms including a decrease or loss in hearing and vision. While children do experience optic and auditory degeneration, the course of the disease is usually too rapid, causing death relatively quickly, whereas adults may live with these conditions for many years. In children, spastic activity often precedes progressive ataxia and rapid cognitive deterioration which has been described as mental retardation. Epilepsy is commonplace for patients of all ages. More progressed patients show weakness in deglutition, leading to spastic coughing fits due to inhaled saliva. Classic symptomatic progression of juvenile X-linked adrenoleukodystrophy is shown in the 1992 film, \"Lorenzo's Oil\".\n\nCourse and timetable are dependent on the age of onset with infants showing a lifespan of 2–8 years, juveniles 2–10 years and adults typically 10+ years. Adults typically see an extended period of stability followed by a decline to a vegetative state and death. While treatments do exist, most are in the experimental phase and can only promise a halt in the progression of symptoms, although some gene therapies have shown some symptomatic improvement. The debilitating course of the disease has led to numerous philosophical and ethical arguments over experimental clinical trials, patients’ rights and physician-assisted suicide.\n\nWhile the more specific underlying causes of leukodystrophy are dependent upon the type, there are, however, common pathophysiological patterns that can be seen amongst all types. First and foremost, leukodystrophy is a neurodegenerative disease that is always the result of both impairment and maintenance of myelin sheaths surrounding neuronal axons in the central nervous system as the result of a genetic mutation. Myelin is a fatty white substance that acts as an electrical insulator and coats axons in order to speed up impulses (i.e., action potentials) traveling down the axon. Thus, the natural result of a loss of this substance is decreased efficiency in impulse propagation. As myelin is produced by oligodendrocytes (a type of glial cell) in the central nervous system, an easy place to look for the cause is a mutation or malfunctioning of these cells and in other glial cells.\n\nLeukodystrophy is most often an inherited disease that is usually the result of an autosomal recessive inheritance pattern, although dominant inheritance patterns are not unheard of, as in the case of adult-onset leukodystrophy. This means that the affected allele is carried on an autosomal, or non-sex, chromosome and is masked by the dominant, unaffected phenotype. In other words, for an individual to inherit the leukodystrophy phenotype, he or she must carry two of the recessive, mutant alleles. Krabbe disease and metachromatic leukodystrophy (MLD) are two of such type. MLD is found on human chromosome 22 at position q13.31. Another type of inherited leukodystrophy is X-linked adrenoleukodystrophy (X-ALD). As its name implies, this type of leukodystrophy is the result of a mutation found on the X-chromosome. It is also carried in a recessive pattern. The X chromosome is a sex chromosome, and since women have two “chances” of acquiring a normal X chromosome (one maternal, one paternal), and males only one (one maternal), this disease is more likely to be seen in men than in women. The mutation resulting in adult-onset leukodystrophy is mapped at 5q23.\n\nAlthough there are nearly forty different types of leukodystrophies, many are lacking in formal and comprehensive research. Most of the research so far has been done on five types: (1) metachromatic leukodystrophy (MLD), (2) Krabbe disease, (3) X-Linked adrenoleukodystrophy (ALD), (4) Canavan disease, and (5) Alexander disease. Each type of leukodystrophy has a unique pathophysiology, but all five of these in some way affect a subset of glial cells, therefore disrupting myelin production and maintenance, and usually involve a mutation involving genes that code for enzymes necessary for the catabolism of very long chain fatty acids (VLCFAs) that are toxic to the myelin-producing cells of the central nervous system.\n\nMetachromatic leukodystrophy is the result of genetic defects in the enzymes associated with the cellular compartment the lysosome. MLD is one of two leukodystophies that are also a lysosomal storage disorder. MLD is inherited in an autosomal recessive way and is the result of mutations in three different ARSA alleles that encode the enzyme arylsulfatase A (ASA or sometimes ARSA), also called sulfatide sulfatase. ASA is responsible for the breakdown of sulfatides, sphingolipids present in neuronal membranes as well as in myelin. When there is a mutation in the gene that encodes ASA, the result is it decreases production, which subsequently leads to diminished degradation of sulfatides, thus causing them to accumulate. This accumulation of sulfatides is poisonous to oligodendrocytes, the myelin-producing cells of the CNS, effectively leading to a disturbance in myelin structure followed by demyelination. The pattern of inheritance of the three different alleles affects what type of MLD a person develops. Two null alleles are responsible for the infantile version, and do not allow for any production of ASA. A heterozygous individual (one null allele, one non-null allele) develops the juvenile form and sees some production of ASA, while an individual with two non-null alleles (but still mutated) develops the adult form.\n\nLike MLD, Krabbe disease is another type of leukodystrophy with autosomal recessive inheritance that is the result of a lysosomal storage disorder. It is due to a deletion in exon 16 of the GALC gene that causes a frameshift mutation leading to a premature stop codon. The GALC gene, found on chromosome 14 at position 31 (14q31), codes for the enzyme beta-galactocerebrosidase (GALC). GALC is a lysosomal enzyme responsible for the catabolism of galactolipids, especially psychosine, that are heavily distributed throughout the brain. A deficiency in GALC thus causes a buildup of these fatty acids known as globoid macrophages that destroy oligodendrocytes, thereby inhibiting myelin formation.\n\nBecause of the presence of globoid cells clustered near white matter, Krabbe disease often goes by the name globoid cell leukodystrophy. Furthermore, new research has shown that Krabbe disease and globoid cell leukodystrophy may be distinct disease entities due to the secretion of inflammatory mediators by natural killer cells in some cases. This research has shown that Natural Killer cells have receptors (TDAG8) for certain glycosphingolipids that build up in an individual with leukodystrophy, again due to insufficient GALC levels, and when bound, target the Natural Killer cells for destruction thereby preventing their cytotoxic effects. These sphingolipids have been identified as galactosyl sphingosine and glycosyl sphingosine and are not present in unaffected individuals.\n\nCanavan disease is a lesser-studied type of leukodystrophy that, like MLD and Krabbe disease, is also passed on in an autosomal recessive inheritance pattern. It is due to a mutation in the ASPA gene that encodes aspartoacylase, an enzyme needed to metabolize N-acetyl-L-aspartate (NAA). The mutation causes a deficiency of aspartoacyclase. NAA is involved in the formation of lipids, and if it is not broken down by aspartoacylase, excess levels of it build up causing demyelination.\n\nIn X-linked adrenoleukodystrophy (X-ALD), a mutation occurs in the peroxisomal ATP-binding cassette (ABC transporter). This leads to cerebral inflammatory demyelination caused by the myelin destabilization that occurs in these patients. The inflammatory demyelination begins in the corpus callosum and it slowly progresses outwards towards both hemispheres. In X-ALD patients, abnormally high levels of very long chain fatty acid (VLCFA) accumulate in various body tissues and fluids. This increased concentration then incorporates into various complex lipids where they are not normally found. This has been found to be directly involved in the cerebral inflammation. The accumulated and embedded VLCFA in the complex lipids could lead to the destabilization of myelin sheath and eventually to demyelination.\n\nAlexander disease is unique from the leukodystrophies mentioned above in that it is the result of spontaneous mutation, that is it is not inherited. This means that the mutation found in the affected individual is not found in either of his or her parents. It is due to the accumulation of Glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) as the result of a mutation in the GFAP gene; which, rather than being found in association with lysosomes or peroxisomes, is an intermediate filament linked to the nuclear envelope. Intermediate filaments are proteins responsible for the makeup of the cellular cytoskeleton, and thus this type of mutation is involved in malfunctioning structural development of the cells. In fact, cytoskeletal and transporter molecule defects have been observed in the astrocytes (type of glial cell) of affected individuals. These astrocytes have an unhealthily large amount of GFAP that affects astrocyte formation and function.\n\nThe degeneration of white matter, which shows the degeneration of myelin, can be seen in a basic MRI and used to diagnose leukodystrophies of all types. T-1 and T-2 weighted FLAIR images are the most useful. FLAIR stands for fluid-attenuated inversion recovery. Electrophysiological and other kinds of laboratory testing can also be done. In particular, nerve conduction velocity is looked at to distinguish between leukodystrophy and other demyelinating diseases, as well as to distinguish between individual leukodystrophies. For example, individuals with X-ALD have normal conduction velocities, while those with Krabbe disease or metachromatic leukodystrophy have abnormalities in their conduction velocities. Next generation multigene sequencing panels for undifferentiated leukodystrophy can now be offered for rapid molecular diagnosis after appropriate genetic counselling.\n\nSpecific types of leukodystrophies include the following with their respective ICD-10 codes when available:\n\nWith many different types of leukodystrophies and causes, treatment therapies vary for each type. Many studies and clinical trials are in progress to find treatment and therapies for each of the different leukodystrophies. Stem cell transplants and gene therapy appear to be the most promising in treating all leukodystrophies providing it is done as early as possible. \nFor hypomyelinating leukodystrophies, therapeutic research into cell-based therapies appears promising. Oligodendrocyte precursor cells and neural stem cells have been transplanted successfully and have shown to be healthy a year later. Fractional anisotropy and radial diffusivity maps showed possible myelination in the region of the transplant. Induced pluripotent stem cells, oligodendrocyte precursor cells, gene correction, and transplantation to promote the maturation, survival, and myelination of oligodendrocytes seem to be the primary routes for possible treatments.\n\nFor three types of leukodystrophies (X-linked adrenoleukodystrophy (X-ALD), metachromatic leukodystrophy (MLD) and Krabbe Disease (globoid cell leukodystrophy - GLD), gene therapy using autologous hematopoietic stem cells to transfer the disease gene with lentiviral vectors have shown to be successful and are currently being used in clinical trials for X-ALD and MLD. The progression of X-ALD has shown to be disrupted with hematopoietic stem cell gene therapy but the exact reason why demyelination stops and the amount of stem cells needed is unclear. While there is an accumulation of very long chain fatty acids in the brain, it does not seem to be the reason behind the disease as gene therapy does not correct it.\n\nAdeno-associated vectors have also been used in intracerebral injections to treat MLD. In some patients with MLD, their IQ increased, nerve conduction improved, their MRIs appeared stable, and had normal enzyme levels. Although the greater majority of patients seem to improve after the transplant, some do not respond well to treatment, which may cause devastating outcomes. For those leukodystrophies that result from a deficiency of lysozyme enzymes, such as Krabbe disease, enzyme replacement therapy seems hopeful. However, enzyme delivery proves difficult, because the blood-brain barrier severely limits what can pass into the central nervous system. Due to this obstacle, most research and clinical trials are turning to allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation.\n\nCurrently, no research has shown a higher prevalence of most leukodsytrophy types in any one place around the world. There is, however, a higher prevalence of the Canavan disease in the Jewish population. 1 in 40 individuals of Ashkenazi Jewish descent are carriers of Canavan disease.<ref name=\"Ashkenazi Jews/Canavan - ABSTRACT ONLY\"></ref> This estimates to roughly 2.5%. Additionally, due to an autosomal recessive inheritance patterns, there is no significant difference found between affected males and affected females for most types of leukodystrophy including, but not limited to, metachromatic leukodystrophy, Krabbe disease, Canavan disease, and Alexander disease. The one exception to this is any type of leukodystrophy carried on a sex chromosome, such as X-linked adrenoleukodystrophy, which is carried on the X-chromosome. Because of the inheritance pattern of X-linked diseases, males are more often affected by this type of leukodystrophy, although female carriers are often symptomatic, though not as severely so as males. To date, there have been no found cases of a leukodystrophy carried on the Y chromosome.\n\nMLD Foundation provides updates on MLD research, including (as of 2019) two active clinical trials evaluating gene therapy and enzyme replacement therapy, and various lines of basic research. They are also active in newborn screening.\n\nThe Global Leukodystrophy Initiative was formed in 2013 to bring together clinicians, researchers and advocacy groups to focus and improve both clinical care and research.\n\nIn addition, many research groups are studying the cellular processes of myelination, which may provide insights into leukodystrophy. Researchers in New York have successfully cured leukodystrophy in mice, using skin cells to repair damaged myelin sheaths. Researchers hypothesize that this treatment may possibly be used in curing human multiple sclerosis.\n\nCure MLD is a global network of patient advocates and nonprofits dedicated to helping families impacted by metachromatic leukodystrophy (MLD). Cure MLD is here to connect families with resources, information, support, and others dealing with MLD. Cure MLD provides travel grants, care packages, emotional support, educational materials, and opportunities to interact with families and patients. Support for the site comes from Chloe's Fight, Love for Loie and The Hammond Family, The Sullivan Family and Friends, Gavin Flying for a Cure, The Calliope Joy Foundation/Cal's Cupcakes, Fundacion Lautaro te Necesita (Argentina), Leukodystrophy Resource and Research Organization (Australia), Bethany's Hope (Canada), and MLD families around the globe. \"We are united in our mission to Cure MLD\" \n\nMLD Foundation was co-founded by Dean and Teryn Suhr in 2001 after the diagnosis in 1995 of two of their daughters with MLD. MLD Foundation serves families and works with researchers, clinicians, regulators, payors, and policy-makers around the world on MLD, leukodystrophy, lysosomal, and rare disease issues. The foundation's mission is \"\"We C.A.R.E.™\" ... Compassion for families, increasing Awareness, influencing & funding Research, and promoting Education for metachromatic leukodystrophy, a very rare terminal genetic neuro-metabolic disease where over half the cases affect infants.\" \n\nThe World Leukodystrophy Alliance is increasing awareness and working to improve quality of care for the leukodystrophies.\n\nJill Kelly and her husband, NFL quarterback Jim Kelly, founded Hunter's Hope after their son Hunter (1997-2005) was diagnosed with infantile Krabbe leukodystrophy. Matthew and Michael Clark of Hull, UK were sufferers, unfortunately both succumbing to the illness and dying in 2013 & 2016 respectively. Their story was the subject of the Channel 4 documentary \"The Curious Case of the Clark Brothers\".\n\nAugusto and Michaela Odone founded The Myelin Project after their son, Lorenzo was diagnosed with Adrenoleukodystrophy (ALD).\n\nThe 1992 film, \"Lorenzo's Oil\" is a true story about a boy suffering from Adrenoleukodystrophy (ALD).\n\n"}
{"id": "1997089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997089", "title": "Swan Island (band)", "text": "Swan Island (band)\n\nSwan Island was a five-piece rock band from Portland, Oregon. Their music was influenced by classic rock, new wave, progressive rock, and metal, as well as queercore bands from the Pacific Northwest.\n\nThe band was started in March 2004 by drummer Vincent Domini (Menagerie/DJ Automaton) and guitarist Aubree Bernier-Clarke (Half-Seas-Over). They were soon joined by guitarist Torrence Stratton, vocalist Brisa Gonzalez, and bassist Bob E. Kendrick (Shemo and owner of 16 records). Swan Island performed with Sleater-Kinney, Mary Timony, LKN, The Gossip, Tracy and the Plastics, and others on the west coast. In the summer of 2006 they performed at the week-long \"Homo-A-Go-Go\" festival in Olympia, Washington. Many of the members of Swan Island have been involved with Rock and Roll Camp for Girls.\n\nThe band's records have been reviewed at \"Spin Magazine\", AllMusic, and PopMatters.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1997090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997090", "title": "Technical Service Medal", "text": "Technical Service Medal\n\nThe Technical Service Medal () was a military award of South Vietnam established in 1964. The medal was awarded in two classes and was awarded for outstanding initiative and devotion an individuals assigned staff duty.\n\nAlso known as the \"Republic of Vietnam Technical Service Honors Medal\", the Technical Service Medal was bestowed in two classes, one for issuance to commissioned officers and the other class for warrant officers and enlisted personnel. The award appeared as a propellered disc suspended from a blue-grey ribbon. The second class version contained two vertical red lines while the first class medal displayed an additional set of thin red lines down the center of the award ribbon.\n\nThe award of the Technical Service Medal was open to both civilians and military personnel who had performed duties “as technicians or of a technical nature” and had demonstrated “outstanding professional capacity, initiative, and devotion to duty”. The decoration was therefore a “behind-the-lines” type of award, mainly awarded to those who were engaged in support and upkeep duties for units deployed to the front lines of the Vietnam War.\n\nThe two classes of the Vietnam Technical Service Medal were denoted by a slight variation in the award's ribbon bar, with the suspension medal for the decoration identical in both cases. The Vietnam Technical Service Medal was occasionally bestowed to foreigners, but not to the extent as other well known Vietnamese awards such as the Vietnam Gallantry Cross, Civil Actions Medal, and the Vietnam Campaign Medal.\n\nThe Vietnam Technical Service Medal became obsolete upon the fall of South Vietnam in 1975. The award is today only available from private dealers in military insignia.\n\n"}
{"id": "1997091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997091", "title": "Scott Cutler", "text": "Scott Cutler\n\nScott Michael Cutler is an American songwriter, musician, record producer, and music executive. As a member of the alternative rock band Ednaswap, he co-wrote \"Torn\" which was covered in 1997 by Natalie Imbruglia. Her recording became the worldwide number one airplay song, and spent 14 weeks on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 Airplay Chart in the US. \"Torn\" has sold an estimated four million copies, it is certified Platinum in 3 countries, and was declared the \"number one radio single of the 1990s\" by radio personality Rick Dees. Ednaswap released three albums between 1995 and 1998 and toured with No Doubt, Weezer, and Better Than Ezra\n\nAs a songwriter and producer, he has collaborated with some of the music industry's top female artists including Madonna, Beyoncé, Katy Perry, Sinéad O'Connor, Miley Cyrus, Kelly Clarkson, Demi Lovato, and Jordin Sparks. He co-wrote \"Piano in the Dark\" with singer/songwriter Brenda Russell which was nominated for Song of the Year at the 31st Annual Grammy Awards. In 2007, he won the Critic's Choice Award for Best Song for \"Listen\" from the motion picture adaption of Dreamgirls. The song was also nominated for Best Original Song at the 2007 Academy Awards and the 2007 Golden Globe Awards.\n\nIn 2007, Cutler created the music publisher Songs of Pulse with writer/producers Josh Abraham and Anne Preven. The company, along with Pulse Management, operates under the Pulse Recording umbrella, to which he became a partner in 2010. Pulse Recording's client roster has co-written Katy Perry's \"Teenage Dream\", \"California Gurls\", \"Last Friday Night (T.G.I.F.)\" and \"Part of Me\", Taio Cruz's \"Dynamite\" Phillip Phillips' \"Home\" and Neon Trees' \"Animal\" and \"Everybody Talks\". Pulse Recording operates two Recording studios, one based at its headquarters in Los Angeles, and one based in Burbank, California. Also in 2009, he worked with Irish pop band Westlife for a track \"The Difference\" included in their Where We Are album where it charted #2 in both UK Albums Chart and Irish Albums Chart. In 2012, the company established a partnership with Creative Nation, the Nashville-based music management and publishing company owned by songwriter Luke Laird and his with Beth Laird.\n\nGrammy Awards\nBroadcast Film Critics Association Award\nAcademy Award\nGolden Globe Award\nBlack Reel Awards\nSatellite Award\n"}
{"id": "1997092", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997092", "title": "Eyesburn", "text": "Eyesburn\n\nEyesburn is a Serbian band which combines hardcore punk and crossover thrash with reggae music.\n\nThe band was formed in 1994, and the original line-up featured former Dead Ideas guitarist Nemanja \"Kojot\" Kojić (guitar, backing vocals), who simultaneously worked as trombonist in Del Arno Band and bass guitarist in Sunshine, Nenad Živić (vocals), former Bloodbath member Aleksandar \"Alek\" Petrović (drums), former Urgh! member Vladimir \"Laza\" Lazić (bass guitar) and Aleksandar \"Gile\" Radulović. The name, Eyesburn, was chosen as a comment on the Serbian TV programs which \"burned the eyes\". \n\nThe band's first release, the album \"Freedomized\", was recorded live at Belgrade club KST. During this period Eyesburn mostly played in Belgrade clubs, occasionally elsewhere in Serbia. The band also started working on their first studio album, \"Dog Life\". However, the band's vocalist Živić left the band just several weeks before the band started recording in the studio, and Kojić took over the lead vocalist position. The album featured the songs written in English language and a cover of Bob Marley & The Wailers song \"Exodus\", which featured guest appearance by Del Arno Band vocalist Jovan Matić. \n\nAt the same time, Kojić started playing trombone as well, and the band started musical exploration of other genres, such as reggae, dub and drum & bass. On the various artists compilation \"Korak napred 2 koraka nazad\", the band appeared with a cover version of Haustor song \"Šejn\". Soon after, Eyesburn recorded their second album \"Fool Control\", featuring a new guitarist, Ninoslav \"Nino\" Filipović. The album was produced by Saša Janković. The songs \"No Free Time\", \"Foolin' I & I\", \"Warning Dub\", and others, presented the album as a form of modern rock, metal and breakbeat reggae fusion.\n\nIn 2001, \"Fool Control\" and the track \"Rizlu imaš, ličnu kartu nemaš\" appeared on the soundtrack for the film \"Munje!\" in which the band appeared as a club band. As a result of their growing popularity, they received an invitation for the pre-election tours \"IT’S TIME\" and \"USE IT (your brain)\". The band started performing in former Yugoslav republics and became one of the most active bands in Serbia. During 2001, and 2002, Eyesburn performed at the EXIT festival in Novi Sad. \n\nIn late 2001, the band released the CD \"Gabau!\", featuring eight songs, two of which, \"No Free Time\" and \"Foolin' I & I\" were recorded live in Belgrade on June 22, 2001. As guests on the album appeared Disciplin A Kitschme drummer Will Parker, percussionist Leša, and Kanda, Kodža i Nebojša vocalist Oliver Nektarijević. iN 2002, with the Jamaican dub poet Ank Steadyspear, the band recorded the album \"Cool Fire - Eyesburn meets Ank Steadyspear\". The album was recorded separately, as Ank Steadyspear sent the already recorded vocal sections over the Internet, and the band recorded the music to the recordings. The band appeared live with Ank Steadyspear as an opening act for Lee Scratch Perry.\n\nIn 2003, the band released the album \"Solid\", produced by Saša Janković, which was more hardcore punk-oriented than the previous release. The band's growing popularity lead to an invitation from Max Cavalera to record together the song \"Moses\" on the Soulfly album \"Prophecy\" and play on the 2004 Prophecy Europe Tour. Kojić also appeared on the Soulfly album \"Dark Ages\", on the song \"Innerspirit\".\n\nIn March 2005, the line-up changed, when Lazić and Filipović left the band, and the new album was recorded by the lineup which included Kojić, Dalibor Vučić (bass, clarinet), Aleksandar Petrović, Vukašin Marković (trombone), Dušan Petrović (baritone saxophone). \"How Much for Freedom?\", recorded in the Novi Sad M Studio and Zemun Cameleon Studio and produced by Boban Mulunović, featured the cover version of Bob Marley & The Wailers song \"So Much Trouble In The World\". The album was released under the PGP-RTS record label in Serbia and Austria. After the album release, the band went on hiatus, and Kojić pursued a solo career.\n\nIn the spring of 2011, the band reunited in the lineup: Aleksandar Petrović \"Alek\" (drums), Vladimir Lazić \"Laza\" (bass), Nemanja Kojić \"Kojot\" (vocals, trombon), Dušan Petrović (saxophone), Aleksandar Nikić \"Lale\" (guitar), Zoran Đuroski \"Đura\" (guitar) and Vukašin Marković (trombon, backing vocals). The reunited Eyesburn had their first performance on June 17, 2011, at Belgrade's SKC, on a concert which was a part of the Jelen Top 10 Tour. On September 15, 2012, Eyesburn performed on Warrior's Dance festival, organized by British group The Prodigy and Exit festival, on Novi Sad's Petrovaradin fortress.\n\nIn July 2013, the band released their seventh studio album, \"Reality Check\". The album, preceded by singles \"Sudden Fall\" and \"Hold This Way\", was produced by Miloš Mihajlović and mastered by Jens Bogren. In December 2015, Eyesburn released a new single called \"Dream is Over\". \n\nIn July 2016, Kojić announced that the band ended their activity.\n\nIn late 2018. the band announced reunion in the following lineup: Aleksandar Petrović \"Alek\" (drums), Vladimir Lazić \"Laza\" (bass), Nemanja Kojić \"Kojot\" (vocals, trombon) and Aleksandar Nikić \"Lale\" (guitar).\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1997093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997093", "title": "Matt Stevens (rugby union)", "text": "Matt Stevens (rugby union)\n\nMatthew John Hamilton Stevens (born 1 October 1982) is a rugby union player who plays for in France's Top 14 and won 39 caps for between 2004 and 2012. Born in Durban, South Africa, to English parents, he can play in both prop positions, and most of his England appearances were at tighthead. \n\nIn 2009 he was banned from the game for two years for using cocaine, following a positive drugs test.\n\nStevens was born on 1 October 1982 in Durban, South Africa. He was educated at Kearsney College in KwaZulu-Natal and played his youth rugby in South Africa. He earned representative honours for Western Province, South African Universities and the Junior Springboks at Under 18 and Under 19 level, before deciding to move to England to pursue his university studies.\n\nHe joined Bath in September 2002 and gained attention towards the end of the 2002–2003 season, making five appearances as a substitute. He put in strong performances coming off the bench for Bath early in the following season as the pack dominated all opposition.\n\nHe featured in Bath's successful drive to the top of the Zürich Premiership table in 2003–2004 and in March 2004 he was selected ahead of Jason Leonard as a replacement in England's Six Nations game against at Twickenham.\n\nStevens was known for popping up in the back line during matches for Bath, and has quite a turn of pace for a front-rower.\n\nIn January 2008, Stevens signed a four-year contract with Bath that would have kept him at the club until the end of the 2011–2012 season.\n\nHowever, on 20 January 2009 it was confirmed Stevens had failed a drug test after Bath's Heineken Cup match against Glasgow the previous month. He was withdrawn from the England 6 nations squad for the 2009 tournament and suspended by Bath RFC.\nHe was banned from rugby for two years on 26 February 2009 after testing positive for cocaine, and on 5 March announced that he was quitting his club before they sacked him.\n\nIn January 2010, it was announced that Stevens would sign for Saracens upon the completion of his ban. In his first season back, Stevens started for the Sarries side that defeated Leicester Tigers in the 2010–11 Aviva Premiership final.\n\nIn February 2014, it was revealed that Stevens would return to South Africa after the conclusion of the 2013–14 English Premiership season to join the in August of that year on a two-year deal.\n\nOn 18 June 2015, Stevens made his move to France to join with European champions Toulon in the Top 14 from the 2015–2016 season.\n\nIn 2003, Stevens, who qualified for England by virtue of his English parents, played for England U21s in the IRB Under 21 World Cup, which was held in Oxfordshire. He soon drew the attention of the England senior team selectors and was selected for the 2004 summer tour to New Zealand and Australia. He won his first two caps as a substitute in the Tests against the All Blacks but a knee injury meant he was unavailable for the test against in Brisbane.\n\nHe was in the England team for the 2005 Six Nations, and was one of the better performers in England's disappointing campaign. He was selected for the 2005 British and Irish Lions tour and featured in six games, though he did not play in any of the Test matches.\n\nDuring the 2006 Six Nations Championship he suffered a shoulder injury that required two operations and kept him out of the game for nearly a year; he did not return to international duty until England's mid-year tour to South Africa in June 2007.\n\nStevens was in England's squad for the 2007 Rugby World Cup. He played in the three warm-up games, against and and featured in all England's games during the tournament, starting in three of the pool games and coming off the bench in the other games.\n\nHe was a replacement in England's loss to Wales in the first game of the 2008 Six Nations Championship and started in the second game, against .\n\nHe was chosen in the 37-man squad for the 2013 British and Irish Lions tour to Australia.\n\nIn 2006, Stevens appeared on \"\" on ITV. He was mentored by Sharon Osbourne and reached the final only to be defeated by Eastenders star Lucy Benjamin. Due to his appearance on the show, he raised over £125,000 for the Nelson Mandela Children's Fund and in October 2006 he was invited to meet the statesman in Johannesburg. \n\nHe holds a BSc in politics with economics from the University of Bath.\n\nWhile serving his ban, Stevens worked in the coffee house he part owns with Lee Mears. \n\nHe is currently General Manager at Boschendal Wine Estate in Stellenbosch, Cape Town.\n\n"}
{"id": "1997096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997096", "title": "Lindlar catalyst", "text": "Lindlar catalyst\n\nA Lindlar catalyst is a heterogeneous catalyst that consists of palladium deposited on calcium carbonate which is then poisoned with various forms of lead or sulphur. It is used for the hydrogenation of alkynes to alkenes (i.e. without further reduction into alkanes) and is named after its inventor Herbert Lindlar.\n\nLindlar catalyst is commercially available but may also be prepared by the reduction of palladium chloride in a slurry of calcium carbonate (CaCO) followed by the addition of lead acetate. A variety of other \"catalyst poisons\" have been used, including lead oxide and quinoline. The palladium content of the supported catalyst is usually 5% by weight.\n\nThe catalyst is used for the hydrogenation of alkynes to alkenes (i.e. without further reduction into alkanes). The lead serves to deactivate the palladium sites, further deactivation of the catalyst with quinoline or 3,6-dithia-1,8-octanediol enhances its selectivity, preventing formation of alkanes. Thus if a compound contains a double bond as well as a triple bond, only the triple bond is reduced.\nAn example being the reduction of phenylacetylene to styrene.\n\nAlkyne hydrogenation is always stereoselective, occurring via syn addition to give the cis-alkene. For example the hydrogenation of acetylenedicarboxylic acid using Lindlar catalyst gives maleic acid rather than fumaric acid.\n\nAn example of commercial use is the organic synthesis of vitamin A which involves an alkyne reduction with the Lindlar catalyst. These catalysts are also used in the synthesis of dihydrovitamin K1.\n\n"}
{"id": "1997098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997098", "title": "IDX Systems", "text": "IDX Systems\n\nIDX Systems Corporation (IDX) was a healthcare software technology company that formerly had headquarters in South Burlington, Vermont, United States. It was founded in 1969 by Robert Hoehl, Richard Tarrant, and Paul Egerman. IDX was acquired by General Electric and incorporated into its GE Healthcare business unit in 2006. A portion of the former IDX business (along with other software assets) were sold by GE to private equity firm Veritas Capital in 2018. The resulting company was named Virence. In 2019, Virence was merged into athenahealth.\n\nPrior to its acquisition by GE Healthcare, IDX had four primary lines of business:\n\nFlowcast was the original application produced by IDX. It is a revenue cycle management system for medium to large physician groups, hospitals, and integrated delivery networks, and includes scheduling, billing and collections modules. It is written in the MUMPS programming language and runs on InterSystems Caché. Flowcast was renamed Centricity Business after the product was acquired by GE Healthcare. The product is now owned by athenahealth.\n\nGroupcast was a financial management system for smaller-to-medium size provider groups. It was renamed Centricity Group Management after being acquired by GE Healthcare. The product is now owned by athenahealth.\n\nCarecast was a system used primarily by large hospitals and medical centers as an integrated clinical and financial application. Known as \"Lastword\" before IDX re-branded it, the system was developed in the 1980s by Seattle-based PHAMIS, Inc., a company acquired by IDX in 1997. Carecast also came in a regionalized version currently used at the University College Hospital in London. The main Carecast code-base is written in COBOL, TAL, C and Java and runs on Tandem/NonStop Tandem Computers hardware. Upon acquisition by GE Healthcare, it was renamed Centricity Enterprise. In 2015, GE Healthcare announced it would sunset the Centricity Enterprise product.\n\nImagecast was a radiology information system which enables \"filmless\" radiology image workflow. It is now marketed and supported by GE as Centricity RIS-IC.\n\nOn September 29, 2005, General Electric's Healthcare division announced it would acquire IDX for US$44 a share. The deal was valued at US$1.2 billion. The purchase was finalized January 4, 2006.\n\n"}
{"id": "1997100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997100", "title": "Arrondissement of Melun", "text": "Arrondissement of Melun\n\nThe arrondissement of Melun is an arrondissement of France in the Seine-et-Marne department in the Île-de-France region. It has 59 communes. Its population is 278,808 (2016), and its area is .\n\nThe communes of the arrondissement of Melun, and their INSEE codes, are:\n\nThe arrondissement of Melun was created in 1800. In 1993 it lost the two cantons of Roissy-en-Brie and Pontault-Combault to the new arrondissement of Noisiel (since 1994 Torcy). In 2006 it lost the canton of Rozay-en-Brie to the arrondissement of Provins. At the January 2017 reorganisation of the arrondissements of Seine-et-Marne, it lost 10 communes to the arrondissement of Fontainebleau, 15 communes to the arrondissement of Provins and seven communes to the arrondissement of Torcy.\n\nAs a result of the reorganisation of the cantons of France which came into effect in 2015, the borders of the cantons are no longer related to the borders of the arrondissements. The cantons of the arrondissement of Melun were, as of January 2015:\n"}
{"id": "1997113", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997113", "title": "Concordia University Texas", "text": "Concordia University Texas\n\nConcordia University Texas is a private, coeducational institution of liberal arts and sciences located in northwest Austin, in the U.S. state of Texas. The university offers undergraduate, graduate and online degrees as well as an Adult Degree Program for part-time and returning students.\n\nConcordia University Texas is affiliated with the Lutheran Church–Missouri Synod (LCMS) and is a member of the Concordia University System, the nine-member association of LCMS colleges and universities. As a Lutheran university, Concordia's stated mission is to develop Christian leaders.\n\nConcordia was founded in 1926 as Lutheran Concordia College of Texas, a four-year high school that prepared young men for careers in ministry and teaching. The school opened with 26 students on its original site along East Avenue (now Interstate 35) on the then northern outskirts of Austin, Texas. In 1929, a two-story classroom building, later called the Music Building, and still later known as College Central, was built.\n\nConcordia was founded by members of Texas's Wendish immigrant community. The original main building, Kilian Hall, is named for the Wend John Kilian, founder of the first Texas Lutheran church associated with the LCMS and leader of a large group of Wends (also called Sorbs) who settled in the Serbin area. Today, between 10 and 15 percent of Concordia's faculty, staff and students are of Wendish heritage.\n\nThroughout the 1940s and 1950s many buildings were added to the campus, such as Hirschi Memorial Library in 1949 and Kramer Hall, the college's first fully air-conditioned classroom building, in 1950, but dedicated on February 25, 1951. Also in 1951, Concordia started using a two-year junior college curriculum.\nBuilding developments on campus continued throughout the 1950s and 1960s. The campus built its chapel, named Birkmann Memorial Chapel, in 1952. Texas Hall, which housed dining services and faculty offices was dedicated in 1953. Studtmann Hall, an all-girl's dormitory opened in 1955. The first Beto Hall on the Concordia campus was built in 1969 and housed science labs. In the early 21st century, this building was converted into the school's mail services facility.\n\nIn 1955 Concordia admitted women as students for the first time and the institution changed its name to Concordia Lutheran College in 1965. In 1969, the four-year high school program was disbanded and Concordia's curriculum expanded to four years after receiving permission to award Bachelor of Arts degrees in 1980.\n\nConcordia joined the Concordia University System (CUS) in 1993. The CUS represents the ten colleges and universities run by the LCMS. In 1995, under the leadership of President Rev. Dr. David Zersen, the name of the institution was changed to Concordia University at Austin. The Accelerated Degree Program (ADP), with sites in Austin, Fort Worth, Houston, and San Antonio, within the College of Adult Education, was launched in 1995 to offer working adults the opportunity to earn a degree. Harms Hall, a dormitory, opened in January 2000 more than doubling campus resident capacity.The first Graduate program was developed during this period.\n\nIn 2002, Dr. Thomas E. Cedel, a former fighter pilot and Colonel in the United States Air Force was named President of the university.\n\nIn 2007, Concordia University at Austin changed its name to Concordia University Texas.\n\nIn August 2008, Concordia University relocated its primary campus, moving onto more than in Northwest Austin. The city of Austin allowed the demolition of the former campus. A developer bought the space with plans to construct a mixed-use development; however, the developer filed for bankruptcy in 2011.\n\nThe new campus was dedicated on October 26, 2008.\n\nIn 2005, the Board of Regents approved the relocation of the Concordia University Texas campus. Since its founding the school had occupied a campus near downtown Austin. The new campus is located in northwest Austin on of land. Construction began in the spring of 2007, and the new campus opened in September 2008.\n\nThe site for Concordia's new campus is the former Schlumberger Austin Systems Center. The site, formerly an R&D facility, had six buildings connected by covered walkways and encircled by a nature trail. The six buildings, named by letter A-F, while extensively renovated, retained their basic design and features, including solid oak trim, large windows, sky lights and atria.\n\nThree new structures were built prior to occupation of the new Concordia campus: student housing, a fieldhouse and a front entry/guard house. In addition to the new structures, 600 additional parking spaces and new roads were built to handle the increased traffic on the campus. In 2014, Concordia broke ground on a state-of-the-art softball field that was completed in 2016.\n\nThe campus includes a nature preserve that has springs and wetlands, caves, dense trees and wildlife. A 10-A federal permit is required and only one other higher education institution carries one. The inclusion of the nature preserve allows Concordia to devote time to urban environmentalism in the Austin community. The Concordia University Nature Preserve is part of the Balcones Canyonlands Preserve, a system of preserves in western Travis County that provides habitat for a number of rare and endangered plant and animal species such the Golden-cheeked warbler and Black-capped vireo, two rare species of songbirds that breed in Central Texas.\n\nIn 2013, Dr. Thomas E. Cedel, announced his retirement from Concordia University Texas. In 2014 Former Dean of the College of Business, Dr. Don Christian was named Chief Executive Officer.\n\nStudent Body, Fall 2017\n\nConcordia University Texas has majors, minors, and programs of study within four colleges: Business & Communication, Nursing (accredited by the Texas Nursing Board and CCNE), Education, and Arts & Sciences. Concordia is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges.\n\nSome of the many clubs and organizations that students participate in are: Concordia University Texas Collegiate DECA, Concordia Outdoor Ministry, Service-Learning, Missions Club, Communication Club, Student Government & Leadership Association (SGLA), Concordia Youth Ministry Team (CYMT), Fellowship of Christian Athletes, Helping Hands, History Club, Preseminarians of CTX, Society for Human Resource Management, Psychology Book Club, Kinesiology Club, Financial Management Association, Education Club, Directors of Christian Education Club, Biology Club, Behavioral Sciences Club, Association of Computing Machinery, Academic Advising Consultants, Model Organization of American States (MOAS), Moot Court, and the Spirit Squad. The school newspaper, \"The Mullet\", was first published in 2006, and in 2013 was renamed \"The Spin\". \"The Spin\" is published once a month during the semester.\n\nThe Concordia mascot is the Tornados and the school colors are purple and gold. Concordia's intercollegiate athletic teams participate in NCAA Division III competition within the American Southwest Conference. They do not award athletic scholarships per Division III rules. The athletic programs at Concordia are: baseball, softball, men's basketball, women's basketball, cross country, golf, men's soccer, women's soccer, track and field, volleyball, tennis and athletic training.\n\nIn spring 2011, \"Purple Out\" events were started to encourage students, staff, and the community to support athletics. On designated \"Purple Out\" days, everyone is encouraged to wear purple and those attending a sporting event receive purple \"Tornado Towels\".\n\nIn 2011–2012, Concordia Texas experienced its most successful year athletically. This was accomplished by winning ASC Championships in Women's Cross Country, Women's Basketball, and Men's Baseball (second consecutive championship).\n\nThere were four athletic facilities on the old campus and one off-campus. On Campus: Fascholz-Keller Field (baseball), Bartholomew Park (softball), Pharr Tennis Center, Woltman Gymnasium. Off-campus: St. Francis School (soccer). Currently, men's and women's soccer play at Round Rock Multipurpose Complex.\n\nIn the 2011–2012 season, the Concordia University Texas' women's basketball team won the American Southwest Conference.\n\nThe Concordia Men's basketball team has been coached by Stanley Bonewitz Jr. since 2004. He is a former Texas Tech basketball standout. As a player, he was named Texas \"Mr. Basketball\" in 1995 His father, Stanley Bonewitz Sr., recently retired as a state-championship winning coach at East Central High School in San Antonio.\n\nThe Concordia Men's baseball team is coached by former major leaguer Tommy Boggs. Coach Boggs led the team to victory in 2011 as the ASC Conference Champions, and later to the NCAA championship tournament where they fell two games short of advancing to the College World Series. In 2012, the team recorded its best record ever and swept the ASC conference tournament to win the Conference title outright for a second consecutive year. Prior to Boggs' tenure, Mike Gardner was head coach since 1998. He retired at the end of the 2009 season as the winningest coach in school baseball history and led the team to its only appearance in the College World Series in 2002. Tornado field debuted on the new campus in February 2011 and was dedicated in April 2011. It is home to Tornado Baseball.\n\nChris Randle became the first student athlete from Concordia to qualify for the NCAA track and field championship tournament. His high jump earned him a sixth-place finish in the tournament. Randle's participation marked the first time in school history that Concordia was represented at the NCAA Division III Championships in two sports during the same academic year, as the baseball team won the ASC title and won two games over nationally ranked opponents – Linfield and Redlands – at the West Regional.\n\nIn 2009 Concordia inducted its first ever Hall of Fame class, including the 2002 baseball team that played for the NCAA Division III College World Series and Atlanta Braves reliever Scott Linebrink.\n\nIn 2011, three more members were inducted: Kenneth DeBord '02, basketball; Lisa Hintz '88, volleyball & basketball and Linda Lowery, who served stints as the Athletic Director, volleyball coach and men's and women's golf coach from 1980–2008.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1997115", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997115", "title": "International Libertarian Solidarity", "text": "International Libertarian Solidarity\n\nInternational Libertarian Solidarity was an international anarchist network with over 20 participating organizations from North and South America, Europe, the Middle East, and Africa.\n\nAccording to their website, \"International Libertarian projects are open to anarchist, anarcho-syndicalist, revolutionary syndicalist, and clearly anti-Statist, non-party aligned social organisations which run along libertarian principles\". The projects mostly consisted of supporting various practical initiatives in South America such as funding printshops and communal halls, and, more broadly, the struggle against corporate globalization.\n\nIts creation was rejected by the International Workers Association, who accused the initiators of being reformist and bearing confusion and division among anarchists.\n\nIts former website has since disappeared and the network is no longer active. Many of the anarchist political organizations that were members now co-operate in the Anarkismo.net project.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1997116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997116", "title": "Gulf Air Transport", "text": "Gulf Air Transport\n\nGulf Air Transport was a small charter airline headquartered at the Acadiana Regional Airport (ARA), a former U.S. Navy military airbase located in New Iberia, Louisiana, United States. The company flew piston, turboprop and jet aircraft types, and conducted flight operations from 1979 until 1990.\n\nGulf Air Transport was founded in 1979. Initially, management planned to obtain their own operating certificate and purchase a single Convair 440 (N4815C) from Smyrna, TN-based Music City Airways. However, after an evaluation, it was then decided to buy Music City's FAA operating certificate along with their only other airplane, a Convair 340 (N3416). After changing Music City Airways name to Gulf Air Transport, management then initiated charter flight operations in support of the U.S. domestic oil and gas industry with two captains and two first officers flying the piston powered Convairs. Next, they added a former North Central Airlines Convair 580 turboprop aircraft which they purchased in Bolivia (N511GA) which was then shortly followed by their final R2800 piston powered Convair 440 (N411GA). In 1981, a Lockheed L-188 Electra (N8355C) four engine turboprop was added to the fleet. The Electra was used for oil and gas industry charters flying offshore workers between the U.S. Gulf Coast and Santa Barbara, California, and also for gambling charters to and from Lake Tahoe, California. In addition, the company was purchasing Republic Airlines Convair 580 turboprops as Republic retired these aircraft which had been previously operated by North Central Airlines as well. On April 24, 1984, Gulf Air purchased their first jet, a Boeing 727-100 (N4620) from Pan Am, which included flight crew training at the Pan Am training center. This initial B727 was followed by the acquisition of Boeing 727-200 jetliners by Gulf Air.\n\nThe company added new contracts for the transportation of various college athletic teams as well as gambling junkets for the casino industry, especially to and from the Lake Tahoe area in California, and pursued other new charter opportunities as the oil and gas industry started cutting back in the early 1980s. The company opened new flight crew bases in Philadelphia, Dallas, Boston, and Detroit. Philadelphia was the largest base. The airline also flew numerous charters to such international destinations as Port-au-Prince in Haiti, British Guiana (now known as Guyana) in South America, Nassau and Freeport in the Bahamas, San Juan, Puerto Rico, St. Thomas, St. Croix, Aruba, Bonaire and Barbados in the Caribbean, and Cancún and Puerto Vallarta in Mexico. Domestic charter destinations included Las Vegas, St. Louis, Orlando, Lake Tahoe and Atlantic City as well as other destinations. Other domestic cities were served by short-term contracts or as the first stop on outbound flights including Baltimore, New York City, and Newark.\n\nOne-time charter flights were operated as well, including weekend sports charters, to many international destinations including Rock Sound International Airport in the Bahamas, Curaçao, Grenada and Puerto Plata in the Caribbean, Bermuda and also to Europe including London, England, Helsinki, Finland, and Warsaw, Poland. By the end of 1986, Gulf Air Transport had approximately 200 full-time employees.\n\nIn 1988, Gulf Air sent several Boeing 727-200 jetliners to Malta in the Mediterranean for a six-month \"sub-service contract\" with Air Malta. The flight attendants and pursers were Air Malta employees while the flight crews and aircraft maintenance technicians were Gulf Air Transport employees. The 727s were used to operate scheduled passenger airline service for Air Malta.\n\nAbout 1986, the company changed its name from Gulf Air Transport to Gulf Air, Inc. However, when starting European service, and the similarity of this name with Bahrain-based Gulf Air, the airline changed its name to TransOcean Airways. During this period, the former Gulf Air Transport, which was now a successful, privately held company, decided to go public and thus offered stock in the firm which then subsequently led to loss of managerial control of the company. Reportedly, former Capitol Air (not to be confused with Capital Airlines) and Arrow Air management personnel took the company in a different direction and added two stretched Douglas Super DC-8-63 jetliner from Scanair and one stretched Douglas Super DC-8-71 leased from United Airlines to the fleet. The Super DC-8-71 featured new high-bypass turbofan engines which enabled longer range operations and also produced less noise. These new managers also hired additional flight attendants to crew their new transatlantic services to Ireland, England, Italy, Finland and the Azores. However, the DC-8 jetliners were often grounded and experienced long, expensive maintenance delays that required more financial resources than TransOcean had access to. Along with a recession in the US economy in the 1980s, Trans Ocean began to lose money and by 1989 it had to seek protection from its creditors by entering Chapter 11 bankruptcy. The company subsequently failed to turn a profit and in March 1990 all flight operations ceased with the airline then going out of business.\n\nPiston aircraft:\n\n\nTurboprop aircraft:\n\n\nJet aircraft:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1997129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997129", "title": "Erkki Melartin", "text": "Erkki Melartin\n\nErkki Melartin (7 February 1875 in Käkisalmi – 14 February 1937 in Pukinmäki) was a Finnish composer. He was a pupil of Martin Wegelius from 1892 to 1899 in Helsinki and of Robert Fuchs from 1899 to 1901 in Vienna.\n\nAs well as composing, Melartin also taught and directed music at the Helsinki Music College, later the Helsinki Conservatory. As conductor of the Vyborg Orchestra in 1908–11, and despite chronic health problems, Melartin toured extensively (as far as North Africa and India), conducting the first performance of Gustav Mahler's music in Scandinavia, the slow movement of the \"Resurrection\" symphony in 1909.\n\nAlthough Melartin was chiefly a lyricist, the symphony was central to his musical output. He wrote six symphonies (1902–1924) and was the first Finnish composer to bear Mahler's influence. The fourth symphony uses a vocalise like that of Carl Nielsen's \"Sinfonia Espansiva\". The fifth is a \"Sinfonia brevis\" ending in a fugue and chorale, while the sixth, harmonically more advanced than the other five, advances stepwise from a C minor first movement – with evocations of Mahler's second symphony – to an E-flat major finale. His musical output also includes an opera, \"Aino\" (based on the character from the Finnish national epic), a violin concerto, four string quartets, and many piano pieces. His works therefore are divided mainly into large-scale works for orchestra, and chamber pieces for much smaller groups and soloists. Despite working in the same time period as Jean Sibelius he was not influenced by the more famous composer's style, and his work has been largely overshadowed by that of Finland's most revered composer.\n\nThe \"Juhlamarssi\" (Festive March) from his ballet \"Sleeping Beauty\" is the most popular wedding march in Finland.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nSong by Vilhelm Krag and Erkki Melartin\n"}
{"id": "1997136", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997136", "title": "Andrew Sheridan", "text": "Andrew Sheridan\n\nAndrew Sheridan (born 1 November 1979 in Petts Wood, Bromley, England) is a retired English rugby union player who played as a loosehead prop.\n\nSheridan is tall, which is unusually tall for a prop, and weighs . He is known for his great physical strength – he is a near-elite class powerlifter and able to bench press and squat .\n\nBorn on 1 November 1979 in Petts Wood, Bromley, England, Sheridan started playing rugby union at the age of nine with Old Elthamians, where he played for five years. In 1991, he went to Dulwich College and there he worked his way through the Surrey age group teams and was capped by both the England U16 and U18 Group Schools teams as a lock.\n\nHe joined Richmond in the 1998–99 season and as they folded he won a place in the England U21 squad that played in the 1999 SANZAR tournament in Argentina. It was rumoured that to maintain concentration during matches he would have a jammy dodger at the half time break.\n\nOn his return from the SANZAR tournament he joined Bristol Shoguns, where he made around 80 appearances. His physique also caused problems; slightly short for a lock, he was also too heavy to be lifted in the line-out (a key area of second row play), meaning that if he played there, a tall back row forward (such as Dean Ryan) had to fill in; he was also not mobile enough to play in the back row himself; as a result it was decided to switch him to loosehead prop, despite his being very tall for that position. Sheridan was switched from lock to loosehead prop by New Zealander Peter Thorburn while at Bristol. He showed his versatility by also playing at Number 8.\n\nAfter Bristol were relegated in the 2002–03 season, Sheridan joined Sale. In his first season at Sale, Sheridan played in the final of the 2004 Powergen Cup. Sheridan started for Sale as they defeated Pau in the final of the 2004–05 European Challenge Cup. Sheridan helped Sale Sharks to top the League in the 2005–06 season. An injury sustained earlier in the season meant Sheridan could not play in the final, as Sale defeated the Leicester Tigers to become Premiership champions for the first time.\n\nIn 2012, he signed for French 14 club Toulon. In May 2013 he started as Toulon won the 2013 Heineken Cup Final by 16–15 against Clermont Auvergne. He announced his retirement after a series of neck injuries in September 2014.\n\nIn 2000 he was a squad member on England's tour to South Africa. During 2001/02 Sheridan played for England A against France A and Ireland A. In 2003 Sheridan was selected to represent England A at the 2003 Churchill Cup in Canada, as well as fixtures against the US and Japan. In December 2003, he played for the England XV that took on the Barbarians immediately following England's 2003 Rugby World Cup success. He finally won his first cap for England in November 2004, coming on as a replacement against Canada.\n\nHe was somewhat controversially selected for the 2005 Lions tour of New Zealand, as many felt with only one cap to his name he was unlikely to feature heavily. On the 2005 tour, he was sent to the sin-bin after attempting to punch Luke McAlister following a clash of heads in the game against New Zealand Māori. Sheridan did not feature in the Test series.\n\nHowever, he established his reputation later that year in England's November Test against Australia, playing the main role in out-classing the Australian front row. Neither of his opposite numbers finished the match. First, Al Baxter proved unable to deal with Sheridan's power, and was eventually sin-binned late in the second half for collapsing a scrum after being warned for repeated scrum violations. Shortly afterwards, Matt Dunning, who was forced to move opposite Sheridan, was stretchered off after a scrum with what was feared to be a serious neck injury; however, scans showed no structural damage to Dunning's neck. Due to the sin-binning and Dunning's injury, the referee ordered uncontested scrums for the last 10 minutes of the match. He faced Carl Hayman of the All Blacks the next Saturday, who gave him a tough time at the scrum by scrumming very low, negating Sheridan's raw power.\n\nDuring a 23–21 victory over South Africa on 20 November 2006, Sheridan suffered a broken right ankle and ligament damage. The injury ruled him out for the rest of the 2006/07 season.\n\nHe won 'Man of the match' against Australia in the Quarter final of the 2007 Rugby World Cup. Sheridan played the full 80 minutes in the 2007 Rugby World Cup Final.\n\nSheridan was included in the squad for the 2009 British and Irish Lions tour to South Africa. Sheridan played in two Tests, starting the third and final Test.\n\nIn 2010, Sheridan recorded and released an acoustic rock album, entitled \"Where We Go From Here\". The acoustic album features Andrew on guitar, along with piano, drum and vocal accompaniment, and was recorded at the local Cotyso Studios after Sheridan's wife contacted the owner.\n\n England profile\n"}
{"id": "1997137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997137", "title": "Who Needs Enemies?", "text": "Who Needs Enemies?\n\n\"Who Needs Enemies?\" is the third and final single released from The Cooper Temple Clause's debut album, \"See This Through and Leave\". It peaked at number twenty-two on the UK Singles Chart.\n\nIn the video, the band seem to be performing the song fairly calmly in their studio, but suddenly launch into destroying it completely. It collapses at the end.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1997140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997140", "title": "Carbonate County, Colorado", "text": "Carbonate County, Colorado\n\nCarbonate County was a county of the state of Colorado that existed for only two days in 1879. Carbonate County was created by renaming Lake County, Colorado.\n\nOn 8 February 1879, the Colorado General Assembly renamed Lake County as Carbonate County. Two days later on 10 February 1879, the Colorado General Assembly split Carbonate County into the new Chaffee County and the renamed Lake County.\n"}
{"id": "1997149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997149", "title": "Patti Russo", "text": "Patti Russo\n\nPatricia \"Patti\" Russo (May 20, 1964, New Jersey) is an American singer/songwriter/actress. She is perhaps best known as Meat Loaf's former female lead vocalist as she toured the world with his band Neverland Express between 1993 and 2013. Since then, she has embarked on a solo career.\n\nPatti Russo is featured as Meat Loaf's duet partner on numerous albums, singles and videos. Russo has also been featured as Meat Loaf's opening act, debuting her own original material. She debuted her solo song \"Bring Me a Bible and a Beer\" during Meat Loaf's shows on the 2008 Casa de Carne Tour. Russo has recorded duets on all of Meat Loaf's albums since 1995.\n\nRusso has also sung lead vocals with groups such as Trans-Siberian Orchestra and Queen. She sang the role of Theresa, Beethoven's Immortal Beloved, on the Trans-Siberian Orchestra album \"Beethoven's Last Night\" and was featured with TSO as a soloist on the soundtrack to the Jim Carrey movie \"How the Grinch Stole Christmas\". She performed with the rock group Queen, singing lead at the Queen's Day Festival in Amsterdam and at their induction into the Hollywood Walk of Fame. She toured as a soloist with the Jon Tiven Band (in Italy) and the SAS Band (in the United Kingdom). Russo is featured as a lead vocalist in the SAS Band's new DVD \"Motown 2 Memphis\". In 2009-2010, Russo performed in Cher's Las Vegas shows.\n\nAs a songwriter, Russo's song \"Take Good Care of My Heart\" is featured as the theme song in the Warner Brothers feature \"South Beach Dreams\". The song was co-produced by composer-producer Fred Weinberg. She also co-wrote the Meat Loaf single \"Runnin' for the Red Light (I Gotta Life)\". Her song \"Bible and a Beer\", co-written with guitarist Jon Tiven, was recorded by jazz singer Betty Harris. Russo's own original recordings can be found on her Spotify page.\n\nAs an actress, Russo played the lead role of Esmeralda in the London production of \"Notre Dame de Paris\". She played the character of \"Killer Queen\" in the Las Vegas version of the musical \"We Will Rock You\", based on the music of Queen. She guest-starred in the New York City musicals \"The 12\" and \"The Rock Tenor\" and the \"Night of Broadway\" benefit shows.\n\nRusso's television credits include \"The Tonight Show with Jay Leno\", \"Late Show with David Letterman\", \"The View\", \"Entertainment Tonight\", \"Don't Forget the Lyrics\", Qcheck, Huckabee, Lopez Tonight, The USA Music Challenge, Top of the Pops, Brit Awards, American Music Awards, Party in the Park- Hyde Park UK, Prince's Trust - UK, Pres. Clinton's 2nd Inaugural Ball - Washington, D.C., NRL Grand Finals - Sydney, AFL Grand Finals - Melbourne, Night of the Proms - Belgium, Germany, Netherlands. Russo has been featured with Meat Loaf in numerous MTV and VH1 music specials including \"The History of Meat Loaf Live\", \"Live in the Neighborhood\", \"On Tour\" (PBS), \"Behind the Music\", \"\", \"Hard Rock Live\", \"Live in Mexico City\" and \"Guilty Pleasure Live\".\n\nRusso has performed for numerous charitable benefits including Battersea Dogs and Cats Home, Covenant House, The Painted Turtle, The Prince's Trust, breast cancer research, Hurricane Katrina relief, Blythedale Children's Hospital, Rock Against Cancer, Starkey Hearing Foundation, and Queen AIDS charity concert.\n\nRusso is currently pursuing her solo career. She started with the release of an EP and a live tour in April 2014. Her EP is now available on iTunes.\n\nHer very first tour - she lovingly calls it HOW ARE YA, 5-0H! - kicked off at The Brook in Southampton on April 10, 2014. This all England tour contains seven dates. She performed five more dates in 2015.\n\nDuring this tour, Russo sings a combination of covers and songs of her own.\n\n\nPatti also appeared at the Isle of Wight Festival in the Strongbow Garden on Sunday 15 June 2014 and at Sommerfest in Norway in August 2014. She performed 5 shows in 2015 in Wavendon, Bury St. Edmunds, London, Southampton, and Leeds.\n\nIn summer 2015 Patti Russo released a new single, titled When it Comes to Love, with Belgian producers \nand DJs Regi and Lester Williams. The song was written by Patti Russo and Tonino Speciale and recorded in \nsummer 2014 and was initially being considered for the 2015 James Bond film Spectre. Remixed by Regi and \nLester Williams featuring Patti’s original vocals, When it Comes to Love was released on 31 August.\n\nIn 2017, Patti toured as a lead vocalist with Symphonic Rhapsody of Queen.\n\n"}
{"id": "1997152", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997152", "title": "Midlothian (UK Parliament constituency) (1708–1918)", "text": "Midlothian (UK Parliament constituency) (1708–1918)\n\nEdinburghshire (also known as Midlothian) was a Scottish county constituency of the House of Commons of the Parliament of Great Britain (at Westminster) from 1708 to 1801 and of the Parliament of the United Kingdom (also at Westminster) from 1801 to 1918.\n\nIt elected one Member of Parliament (MP) by the first past the post system of election.\n\nThe seat is most famous as the location of William Ewart Gladstone's upset victory in the Midlothian Campaign of 1880, regarded as the birth of the modern political campaign in the United Kingdom. After Gladstone's victory it became the first non-English constituency to be represented by a serving prime minister.\n\nThe British parliamentary constituency was created in 1708 following the Acts of Union, 1707 and replaced the former Parliament of Scotland shire constituency of Edinburghshire.\n\nAs first used, in 1708 general election of the Parliament of Great Britain, the constituency covered the county of Edinburgh, except the burgh of Edinburgh, which was covered by the Edinburgh burgh constituency. 1708 boundaries were used also for all subsequent elections of that parliament.\n\nIn 1801 the Parliament of Ireland was merged with the Parliament of Great Britain to form the Parliament of the United Kingdom . The first general election of the new parliament was the general election of 1802. There was no change to the boundaries of any pre-existing Westminster constituency, and 1802 boundaries were used also in the general elections of 1806, 1807, 1812, 1818, 1820, 1826, 1830 and 1831.\n\nFor the 1832 general election, as a result of the Representation of the People Act 1832, the constituency was redefined. The boundaries of counties and burghs for parliamentary purposes ceased to be necessarily those for other purposes, but nominally the Edinburghshire constituency consisted of the county of Edinburgh minus the burghs of Edinburgh, Leith, Portobello, and Musselburgh. Edinburgh was again covered by the Edinburgh constituency, and Leith, Portobello and Musselburgh were covered by the Leith Burghs constituency.\n\n1832 boundaries were used also in the general elections of 1835, 1837, 1841, 1847, 1852, 1857, 1859, 1865, 1874, 1880, 1886, 1892, 1895, 1900, 1906, January 1910 and December 1910.\n\nFor the 1918 general election, as a result of the Representation of the People Act 1918, the area of the Edinburghshire constituency was mostly divided between the Midlothian and Peebles Northern and Peebles and Southern Midlothian constituencies. By this date, the county of Edinburgh had been renamed as the county of Midlothian.\n\nThe Midlothian and Peebles Northern constituency consisted of the Calder and Suburban districts and part of the Lasswade district of the county of Midlothian, and the Peebles and Southern constituency consisted of the county of Peebles, the Gala Water district and part of the Lasswade district of county of Midlothian, and the burghs of Bonnyrigg, Lasswade, and Penicuik in county of Midlothian.\n\nThe rest of the county of Midlothian was covered by the Edinburgh Central, Edinburgh East, Edinburgh North, Edinburgh South, Edinburgh West and Leith constituencies.\n\nThe constituency elected one Member of Parliament (MP) by the first past the post system. There were 56 voters in 1708, 68 in 1710, about 80 between 1715 and 1754, 84 in 1764, 104 in 1774, 93 in 1788, 95 in 1790 rising to 123 in 1811, 174 in 1820, 168 in 1826 and 165 in 1830.\n\nRamsay resigned by accepting the office of Steward of the Chiltern Hundreds, causing a by-election.\n\nHope's death caused a by-election.\n\nGladstone's appointment as Prime Minister, First Lord of the Treasury and Chancellor of the Exchequer required a by-election.\n\nGladstone's appointment as Prime Minister, First Lord of the Treasury and Chancellor of the Exchequer required a by-election.\n\nGladstone's appointment as Prime Minister, First Lord of the Treasury and Lord Privy Seal required a by-election.\n"}
{"id": "1997153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997153", "title": "The Tempest (Dryden and D'Avenant play)", "text": "The Tempest (Dryden and D'Avenant play)\n\nThe Tempest, or The Enchanted Island is a comedy adapted by John Dryden and William D'Avenant from Shakespeare's comedy \"The Tempest\". The musical setting, previously attributed to Henry Purcell, and probably for the London revival of 1712, was very probably by John Weldon.\n\nThe Dryden/D'Avenant adaptation was first performed at the Duke's Theatre in Lincoln's Inn Fields, London, on 7 November 1667, and published in 1670. It is written partly in blank verse and partly in a sort of rhythmic prose. The play was revised and revived a number of times, and adapted as an opera by Thomas Shadwell in April 1674; Shadwell's revision had a musical score created by a team of composers that included Matthew Locke and Pelham Humfrey. This was the version of \"The Tempest\" most familiar to audiences up until William Macready's enormously successful production of Shakespeare's original on 13 October 1838. Shadwell's version was revived in 1701, in 1702 through 1704, in 1706 through 1708, in 1710, in 1712 through 1717, and more than 20 times between 1729 and 1747.\n\nDryden and D'Avenant keep a great deal of Shakespeare's verse, but generally tone the play down, simplifying grammar and language occasionally, removing much of the \"mythic resonance\" of the original, and adding a fair amount of their own invention. The added elements include new characters – Hippolito, a man who has never seen a woman, and Dorinda, a second daughter of Prospero. Hippolito and Dorinda, predictably, fall in love; their love parallels that between Miranda, Shakespeare's maiden who has never seen a man, and Ferdinand, son to the Duke of Mantua (or to the King of Naples in Shakespeare's version). Ariel was given an ethereal girlfriend in Milcha (Shadwell expanded her role in 1674). Even Caliban got a sister.\n\nShadwell's 1674 operatic version of Dryden and D'Avenant's adaptation was mocked by Thomas Duffet in his farce \"The Mock Tempest, or the Enchanted Castle\", also in 1674.\n"}
{"id": "1997155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997155", "title": "Zarumilla River", "text": "Zarumilla River\n\nThe Zarumilla River is a river in South America that marks the border between Peru and Ecuador. It is named after the Peruvian town of Zarumilla.\n\nIt is part of the Gulf of Guayaquil-Tumbes mangroves Sanctuary and its currents, sediments, and tides strongly influence the geomorphology of the area. It empties into the Gulf of Guayaquil.\n\nThe largest towns on its banks are Huaquillas, in the Ecuadorian province of El Oro, and Aguas Verdes in the Tumbes Region of Peru; both towns are connected by an international bridge. The water flows through a canal as the river passes these populated areas. Pollution is a problem in this part of the river, as people from both countries discharge their waste into the canal.\n\nIn 1998, during El Niño, the river changed its course, moving 1 square kilometre of land into its eastern margin. Ecuadorians took advantage of this situation, saying that the river is the natural border marker and therefore gives them rights in the affected area. The Peruvians argued that the area is sovereign Peruvian soil.\n\n"}
{"id": "1997163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997163", "title": "The Man Without a Past", "text": "The Man Without a Past\n\nThe Man Without a Past () is a 2002 Finnish comedy-drama film produced, written, and directed by Aki Kaurismäki. Starring Markku Peltola, Kati Outinen and Juhani Niemelä, it is the second installment in Kaurismäki's \"Finland\" trilogy, the other two films being \"Drifting Clouds\" (1996) and \"Lights in the Dusk\" (2006). The film was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film in 2002 and won the Grand Prix at the 2002 Cannes Film Festival.\n\nThe film begins with an unnamed man arriving by train to Helsinki. After falling asleep in Kaisaniemi Park, he is mugged and beaten by hoodlums and is left with severe head injuries, losing consciousness. He awakes and wanders back to the train station and collapses in its toilet. He awakes the second time in a hospital and finds that he has lost his memory. He starts his life from scratch, living in aa shipping container, finding clothes with help from the Salvation Army and making friends with his poor neighbours.\n\n\n\"The Man Without a Past\" was co-produced by the Finnish companies Sputnik and YLE, the German companies Bavaria Film Studios and Pandora Filmproduktion and the French company Pyramide Productions.\n\nThe film received overwhelmingly positive reviews from critics. On Rotten Tomatoes, the film has a rating of 98%, based on 95 critics, with an average rating of 8/10. The site's critical consensus reads, \"Kaurismäki delivers another droll comedy full of his trademark humor.\" On Metacritic, the film has a score of 84 out of 100, based on 29 critics, indicating \"universal acclaim\". Roger Ebert awarded the film three-and-a-half stars out of 4, saying he \"felt a deep but indefinable contentment\". Kirk Honeycutt of \"The Hollywood Reporter\" said the film \"contains not one false note. It is the work of an artist fully in control of his art.\" Barbara Scharres of the \"Chicago Reader\" said that Kaurismäki \"perfects his trademark formula of deadpan humor and arctic circle pathos in this brilliantly ironic 2002 comedy.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1997166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997166", "title": "Cytochrome b6f complex", "text": "Cytochrome b6f complex\n\nThe cytochrome \"bf\" complex (plastoquinol—plastocyanin reductase; ) is an enzyme found in the thylakoid membrane in chloroplasts of plants, cyanobacteria, and green algae, that catalyzes the transfer of electrons from plastoquinol to plastocyanin. The reaction is analogous to the reaction catalyzed by cytochrome bc (Complex III) of the mitochondrial electron transport chain. During photosynthesis, the cytochrome bf complex is one step along the chain that transfers electrons from Photosystem II to Photosystem I, and at the same time pumps protons into the thylakoid space that contribute to create an electrochemical (energy) gradient which is later used to synthesize ATP from ADP.\n\nThe cytochrome bf complex is a dimer, with each monomer composed of eight subunits. These consist of four large subunits: a 32 kDa cytochrome f with a c-type cytochrome, a 25 kDa cytochrome b with a low- and high-potential heme group, a 19 kDa Rieske iron-sulfur protein containing a [2Fe-2S] cluster, and a 17 kDa subunit IV; along with four small subunits (3-4 kDa): PetG, PetL, PetM, and PetN. The total molecular weight is 217 kDa.\n\nThe crystal structure of cytochrome bf complexes from \"Chlamydomonas reinhardtii\", \"Mastigocladus laminosus\", and \"Nostoc\" sp. PCC 7120 have been determined.\n\nThe core of the complex is structurally similar to cytochrome bc core. Cytochrome b and subunit IV are homologous to cytochrome b and the Rieske iron-sulfur proteins of the two complexes are homologous. However, cytochrome f and cytochrome c are not homologous.\n\nCytochrome bf contains seven prosthetic groups. Four are found in both cytochrome bf and bc: the c-type heme of cytochrome c and f, the two b-type hemes (b and b) in bc and bf, and the [2Fe-2S] cluster of the Rieske protein. Three unique prosthetic groups are found in cytochrome bf: chlorophyll a, β-carotene, and heme c (also known as heme x).\n\nThe inter-monomer space within the core of the cytochrome b6f complex dimer is occupied by lipids, which provides directionality to heme-heme electron transfer through modulation of the intra-protein dielectric environment.\n\nIn photosynthesis, the cytochrome bf complex functions to mediate the transfer of electrons between the two photosynthetic reaction center complexes, from Photosystem II to Photosystem I, while transferring protons from the chloroplast stroma across the thylakoid membrane into the lumen. Electron transport via cytochrome bf is responsible for creating the proton gradient that drives the synthesis of ATP in chloroplasts. \n\nIn a separate reaction, the cytochrome bf complex plays a central role in cyclic photophosphorylation, when NADP is not available to accept electrons from reduced ferredoxin. This cycle results in the creation of a proton gradient by cytochrome bf, which can be used to drive ATP synthesis. It has also been shown that this cycle is essential for photosynthesis, in which it is proposed to help maintain the proper ratio of ATP/NADPH production for carbon fixation.\n\nThe p-side quinol deprotonation-oxidation reactions within the cytochrome b6f complex have been implicated in the generation of reactive oxygen species. An integral chlorophyll molecule located within the quinol oxidation site has been suggested to perform a structural, non-photochemical function in enhancing the rate of formation of the reactive oxygen species, possibly to provide a redox-pathway for intra-cellular communication. \n\nThe cytochrome \"b\"\"f\" complex is responsible for \"non-cyclic\" (1) and \"cyclic\" (2) electron transfer between two mobile redox carriers, plastoquinone (QH) and plastocyanin (Pc):\n\nCytochrome bf catalyzes the transfer of electrons from plastoquinol to plastocyanin, while pumping two protons from the stroma into the thylakoid lumen:\n\nThis reaction occurs through the Q cycle as in Complex III. Plastoquinone acts as the electron carrier, transferring its two electrons to high- and low-potential electron transport chains (ETC) via a mechanism called electron bifurcation. The complex contains up to three natively plastoquinone (PQ) molecules that forms an electron transfer network that are responsible for the operation of the Q cycle and its redox-sensing and catalytic functions in photosynthesis.\n\nFirst half of Q cycle\nSecond half of Q cycle\n\nIn contrast to Complex III, cytochrome bf catalyzes another electron transfer reaction that is central to cyclic photophosphorylation. The electron from ferredoxin (Fd) is transferred to plastoquinone and then the cytochrome bf complex to reduce plastocyanin, which is reoxidized by P700 in Photosystem I. The exact mechanism for how plastoquinone is reduced by ferredoxin is still under investigation. One proposal is that there exists a ferredoxin:plastoquinone-reductase or an NADP dehydrogenase. Since heme x does not appear to be required for the Q cycle and is not found in Complex III, it has been proposed that it is used for cyclic photophosphorylation by the following mechanism:\n\n"}
{"id": "1997179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997179", "title": "Gruppo di intervento speciale", "text": "Gruppo di intervento speciale\n\nThe Gruppo di Intervento Speciale (GIS) () is the special forces unit of the Italian Carabinieri. The Carabinieri, a branch of the Armed Forces responsible for both military and civil policing, formed GIS in 1978 as a police tactical unit. In 2004, GIS assumed a special operations role evolving to a special forces unit, in addition to the police tactical unit role, becoming part of the Comando interforze per le Operazioni delle Forze Speciali (COFS) ().\n\nThe unit has taken part in counter-terrorism operations and VIP, executive and dignitary protection security. Since its inception, GIS has distinguished itself throughout Italy for efficiency and excellent preparation, and has also operated and operates in several theatres of war including Balkans, Afghanistan, Iraq, Horn of Africa, as well as in all the countries where Italian diplomatic offices are at risk.\n\nIn Italy, GIS is one of three police tactical units that can operate throughout the country, the other two being Nucleo Operativo Centrale di Sicurezza (NOCS) of the Polizia di Stato and Antiterrorismo Pronto Impiego (ATPI) of the Guardia di Finanza.\n\nThe Special Intervention Group is employed in high-risk special actions against terrorism. The GIS specializes in hostage rescue, prioritizing their physical safety, in reconquest of vital targets and facilities held by terrorists, in resolutive intervention against hijacking, in intervention in environments featuring NBCR dangers.\n\nThe Special Intervention Group ensures the permanent availability of personnel to the Ministry of the Interior for immediate deployments. The Ministry of the Interior employs the GIS for the release of hostages from airplanes, ships, trains, buses and buildings. It also calls them to protect sensitive targets from terrorist or criminal attacks and to ensure surveillance and security at high-risk events (in coordination with Public Security authorities).\n\nAside of the permanent availability ensured to the Interior Ministry, the GIS are used by the General Command of the Carabinieri to guarantee the security of threatened personalities or to assist territorial units in crisis situations such as kidnapping and capturing criminals, fugitives or dangerous evades. The GIS also trains and certifies other Carabinieri assigned to escort duties, and provides security services to important persons.\n\nThe GIS are also deployed abroad, to perform foreign hostage-rescue operations, to protect Italian embassies and consulates in highly dangerous situations, as well as for special intervention in Carabinieri deployments and operations abroad.\n\nOccasionally they are also in charge of training foreign police personnel.\n\nIn 2003, GIS became a special forces unit responsible for special operations, including direct action, special reconnaissance, military assistance and counter terrorism, part of Comando interforze per le Operazioni delle Forze Speciali (COFS) of the Armed Forces, in addition to its civilian police tactical unit role. GIS can deploy overseas for special operations if requested by COFS. In 2015, laws were changed to permit the Italian foreign intelligence service Agenzia Informazioni e Sicurezza Esterna (AISE) to use GIS for individual missions.\n\nDuring the seventies of the last century (the so-called years of lead) the Italian political and civil institutions suffered a violent assault by endemic terrorist groups. Although the Government had not taken any official initiatives, units were set up in the elite units of the Armed Forces and Police for the development and experimentation of intervention techniques in crisis situations in the presence of hostages.\n\nOn 18 October 1977, the political will changed as a result of the success of Operation Feuerzauber (Magic Fire) conducted by the Germans of the GSG-9 that in Somalia succeeded in freeing 86 passengers and 3 crew members of the Lufthansa 181 flight hijacked and still in hand of terrorists. Feasibility studies were immediately carried out.\n\nFollowing this action, interior minister Francesco Cossiga on 6 January 1978 ordered the creation of the UN.I.S. (\"Unità di Intervento Speciale\", Italian for \"Special Intervention Units\"), in order to support anti-terrorism investigations. \n\nIn a feasibility study conducted on 24 October 1977, the Carabinieri foresaw the establishment of the Special Intervention Group within the Battalion \"Tuscania\", in order to enable the Group to act both framed the larger Battalion and alone.\n\nThe Special Intervention Group was the first to be officially established on 6 February 1978 by the General Command of the Carabinieri, within the then-Battalion \"\"Tuscania\"\". This unit of the Carabinieri could act both in civil and public order and in the military sphere. The Special Intervention Group was made operationally autonomous, administratively part of the Battalion and logistically supported by the \"Folgore\" Brigade.\n\nBy December 1981, the Special Intervention Group reached the full operational capability.\n\nThe public debut of the GIS took place in Trani on 29 December 1980. In the prison, a revolt led by terrorists broke out. On the building, helicopters began to whirl, from which masked men quickly fell down. They regained control of the prison in a few minutes despite the many gates welded by the rebels to hinder an intervention from outside.\n\nIn the following years, the GIS expanded its tasks: in December 1988 the Group, on the proposal of its own commander, was tasked with prevention and counter-sabotage activities, as well as with support of the Carabinieri territorial organisation, sensitive targets surveillance, and high-risk interventions and round-ups against organised crime.\n\nIn 1994, the tasks of the Group were further expanded, including support for the capture of prominent fugitives, in anti-drug operations and in operations aimed at executing orders of the judicial authorities in the presence of environmental characteristics that entail considerable difficulties in execution. An underwater component was also set established and the use of the unit in support of the Italian embassies at risk was also approved.\n\nThe GIS, because of the minor terrorist emergency , since 2000 has operated mainly in the military, and since 26 November 2003, it has been part of the Special Forces, along with COMSUBIN, 9th Paratroopers Assault Regiment and the 17º Stormo Incursori. \n\nThe decision of converting the GIS into a special forces unit was taken as consequence of the large overseas deployment of his operators, that distinguished themselves for competence and resolution in various scenarios of war. Already after his creation, the group operated alongside Italian troops in Lebanon during the Lebanese Civil War, and since that moment they become an important part of the Italian military actions around the globe.\n\nThe GIS headquarters is in Livorno.\n\nThe exact number of operating personnel is a confidential information, but the Group is organized at a company level.\n\nThe GIS is divided into:\n\nThe largest combat section, in turn, is divided into three detachments consisting of teams of four men: a commander, an explosive specialist, a climbing specialist and an equipment specialist.\n\nAt any moment there is a detachment ready to leave the base in 30 minutes. For this purpose, there are always some Agusta-Bell AB 412 supplied with the Carabinieri and a 46th Air Force Aircraft of the Air Force that is located in nearby Pisa, which can supply the C-130 Hercules when needed. The remaining can be used within three and twenty-four hours of the alarm. In the most urgent cases, an advanced core precedes the operating section in order to plan the intervention strategy based on first-hand information.\n\nThe exploration, reconnaissance and scouting section is in turn made up of teams of three men: two fighters armed with Mauser 86 SR and an explorer equipped with a semiautomatic HK PSG-1. During longer actions, men can become the explorer.\n\n\nAs of late 2018, the Special Intervention Group has been involved in more than 600 special operations:\n\nGIS has been involved in various multinational operations, both war and peacekeeping, since its creation. What follows is a list of confirmed operations in which GIS operators took part.\n\n\nBeing an elite unit, the path that candidates have to make to access it is particularly hard and selective from the first phase that includes interviews and psycho-physical visits.\n\nThe competition announcement (interpellation in jargon) was opened, from 2011, to members of the Carabinieri who are no more than 33 years old. It is therefore no longer an indispensable condition to be of the 1st Paratroopers Carabinieri Regiment \"Tuscania\".\n\nThe course is called \"G.I.S. operator with military patent of raider\", because at the end of the training process the military receives the military patent of raider, as it happens in the other three Italian Special Forces already mentioned.\n\nThe carabinieri who apply are sent to the 1st Tuscania Regiment. The first selection phase for the GIS involves an interview with a senior GIS officer who verifies motivation, a key element in becoming part of the department, followed by examination by psychologists and medical doctors. This first selection is passed by 40 percent of the candidates.\n\nThe survivors then begin a very hard training process for the patent of Paracadutisti at the \" Tuscania \" of about nine months duration (this training is almost identical to the one carried out by the 1st Paratroopers Carabinieri Regiment \"Tuscania\", therefore those who come from the latter are directly introduced to the second phase, namely the specialized one for the GIS).\n\nThe course includes:\n\nThe carabinieri who finish the training period cited, about 30 percent of the initial candidates, are admitted to the 45-week course divided into a \" Basic Course \" of 18 weeks (exceeded by more than 50 percent of candidates) and to a 27-week \"Specialized Course\". Only at this point does the soldier become operational and an effective member of the department.\n\n\n\nOnce part of GIS, training is daily and their skills are perfected with further courses:\n\n\n(\" An operative detachment has: an Incursor with a Combat Medic specialization, a Breacher: EOD-IEDD deactivator, a SFJTAC - Special Forces Joint Terminal Attack Controller, and one or two Snipers \".\n\n\nFinally, there are ongoing collaborative relationships with military departments, including foreign ones. In fact, other courses are held abroad by the International Special Training Center—ISTC in Pfullendorf, Germany, the NATO Special Forces school, and various joint exercises with the colleagues of the SF and Antiterrorism (SAS \" \"—Great Britain, SWAT \" \"—USA, GSG9—Germany, GIGN—France) of other countries.\n\nCommander Alfa is a key figure in GIS history. He was one of the founding members and his nickname was given to him by his recruits.\nThe old operator is the only one allowed to talk publicly and represents the link between mass media and the group.\nHe is also famous for writing books that explain what it means to be part of a special group and outlines the public operations that GIS has undergone since its foundation. The two books are 'Swallow Heart' and 'I live in the darkness'.\nAlfa is also the only Italian special force operator to have officially removed his mephisto during an operation, in order to calm a child.\n\nGIS has very good relations with other top class CT units in the world, among these are Great Britain's SAS, Ireland's ARW & ERU, Spain's GEO and UEI, France's GIGN, United States's Hostage Rescue Team, Germany's GSG 9 and SEK, Belgium's ESI, Austria's EKO Cobra and the Netherlands's DSI.\n\n\nThe uniform utilized by this elite force is normally the dark blue, even though mimetic and desert variations exist. Its reinforcements such as helmets, knee pads, elbow pads or bulletproof jackets are composed of fireproof and insulating materials.\n\nThe G.I.S appeares in Ron Howard's film \"Angels and Demons\", where the unit blitzes \"Castel Sant'Angelo\" to find the antimatter bomb.\n\nIn Tom Clancy's novel Rainbow Six, GIS and Carabinieri operators are part of the multinational counter terrorism organization.\n\nIn the Rainbow Six video games, \"Rainbow Six Rogue Spear\" and \"Rainbow Six 3\": Raven Shield is present \"Antonio Maldini\", an operator coming from the G.I.S ..\n\nIn the video game \"Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six Siege\" there are two operators belonging to G.I.S. , called Maestro (Adriano Martello) and Alibi (Aria de Luca).\n\nIn Marvel \"Europa\" volume 1 0 and 1 1, the italian superhero Argento (Michele Argento), was part of the GIS.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1997184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997184", "title": "Gene Littler", "text": "Gene Littler\n\nGene Alec Littler (July 21, 1930 – February 15, 2019) was an American professional golfer and a member of the World Golf Hall of Fame. Known for a solid temperament and nicknamed \"Gene the Machine\" for his smooth rhythmical swing, he once said that, \"Golf is not a game of great shots. It's a game of the best misses. The people who win make the smallest mistakes.\"\n\nLittler was born in San Diego, California. He played on the 1953 United States Walker Cup team, and won the U.S. Amateur and the California State Amateur that same year. In 1954, he won a PGA Tour event as an amateur, a rare achievement which was not to be repeated until Doug Sanders won the Canadian Open in 1956.\n\nLittler graduated from San Diego State University, and after that served in the United States Navy from 1951 to 1954.\n\nAn early highlight of Littler's professional playing career was a second-place finish at the 1954 U.S. Open. He finished one shot behind Ed Furgol.\n\nIn 1955, he won four times on the tour, but fell into a slump in the late 1950s after tinkering with his swing. In 1959 after taking advice he received from Paul Runyan and adjusting his grip, he recovered to have his best year with five PGA Tour victories. He finished second on the money list that year, which was to remain his career best. Only once from 1954 to 1979 did Littler finish out of the top 60 on the final money list. He was stricken with melanoma cancer found in a lymph node under his left arm in 1972, but came back to win five more times on the PGA Tour. He ended his career with 29 PGA Tour wins, and also won two tournaments in Japan and one in Australia.\n\nOne of Littler's 29 PGA Tour wins was unique. When he won the 1975 Bing Crosby National Pro-Am, it marked the first and (so far) only time that a player won that event as a professional after having previously won the pro-amateur portion, which Littler did as a 23-year-old amateur in 1954.\n\nLittler won one major championship – the 1961 U.S. Open. He shot a 68 in the final round to overtake Doug Sanders. He accumulated 17 top-10 finishes in the three U.S.-based majors: seven at the Masters Tournament, five at the PGA Championship, and five at the U.S. Open. In addition to his U.S. Open victory, he had one second-place finish in each of the three U.S. majors, losing playoffs to Billy Casper at the 1970 Masters and to Lanny Wadkins at the 1977 PGA Championship. The latter was the first ever sudden-death playoff in a major. He was a member of the U.S. Ryder Cup teams of 1961, 1963, 1965, 1967, 1969, 1971 and 1975, and had a 14-5-8 win/loss/tie record including five wins and three ties in 10 singles matches.\n\nLittler received the Ben Hogan Award in 1973 for a courageous comeback from injury or illness, after returning to the tour following treatment for malignant melanoma. Also in 1973, he was given the Bob Jones Award, the highest honor given by the United States Golf Association in recognition of distinguished sportsmanship in golf. In the 1980s and 1990s Littler played on the Senior PGA Tour, winning eight times. He was inducted into the World Golf Hall of Fame in 1990.\nOn January 5, 1951, ten days before joining the Navy, Littler married Shirley Warren, his university classmate. They had a son, Curt, born in March 1954 and a daughter, Suzanne, born in October 1957. Littler died at the age of 88 on February 15, 2019.\n\nSource\n\nPGA Tour playoff record (3–8)\n\nPGA Tour of Australasia playoff record (1–0)\n\"this list may be incomplete\"\n\nChampions Tour playoff record (1–2)\n\n\nCUT = missed the halfway cut\nDQ = disqualified\nWD = withdrew\nR64, R32, R16, QF, SF = Round in which player lost in match play<br>\n\"T\" indicates a tie for a place.\n\nSource for U.S. Open and U.S. Amateur: USGA Championship Database\n\n\nAmateur\n\nProfessional\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1997191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997191", "title": "Ironworks", "text": "Ironworks\n\nAn ironworks or iron works is an industrial plant where iron is smelted and where heavy iron and steel products are made. The term is both singular and plural, i.e. the singular of \"ironworks\" is \"ironworks\".\n\nIronworks succeed bloomeries when blast furnaces replaced former methods. An integrated ironworks in the 19th century usually included one or more blast furnaces and a number of puddling furnaces or a foundry with or without other kinds of ironworks. After the invention of the Bessemer process, converters became widespread, and the appellation steelworks replaced ironworks.\n\nThe processes carried at ironworks are usually described as ferrous metallurgy, but the term siderurgy is also occasionally used. This is derived from the Greek words \"sideros\" - iron and \"ergon\" or \"ergos\" - work. This is an unusual term in English, and it is best regarded as an anglicisation of a term used in French, Spanish, and other Romance languages.\n\nIronworks is used as an omnibus term covering works undertaking one or more iron-producing processes. Such processes or species of ironworks where they were undertaken include the following:\n\n\nFrom the 1850s, pig iron might be partly decarburised to produce mild steel using one of the following:\n\n\nThe mills operating converters of any type are better called steelworks, ironworks referring to former processes, like puddling.\n\nAfter bar iron had been produced in a finery forge or in the forge train of a rolling mill, it might undergo further processes in one of the following:\n\nMost of these processes did not produce finished goods. Further processes were often manual, including \nIn the context of the iron industry, the term \"manufacture\" is best reserved for this final stage.\n\nThe notable ironworks of the world are described here by country. See above for the largest producers and the notable ironworks in the alphabetical order.\n\n\n\n\n\nThe largest Japanese steel companies' main works are as follows:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1997192", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997192", "title": "Instrumental Quarter", "text": "Instrumental Quarter\n\nInstrumental Quarter is an Italian instrumental post-rock band, formed in 1999 in Cuneo. \n\nParide Lanciani - guitar - (Founder: 1999 - today) \nTommaso Fia - keyboards (2016 - today) \nNicolas Joseph Roncea - bass (2016 - today) \nSimone Rossi - drums (2016 - today) \n\nFormer \nLuigi Racca - bass (1999 - 2002) \nMarco Allocco - cello (1999 - 2002) \nFlavio Cravero - drums (1999 - 2002) \nLuca Bleu - drums and percussions (2002 - 2006) \nGabriele Fioritti - cello (2002 - 2006) \nFrancesco Calabrese - videoart (2002 - 2006) \nGabriele Grosso - bass (2002 - 2009) \nDavide Arneodo - piano, violin (2004 - 2009) \nMarco Bognanni - drums (2004 - 2009) \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1997197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997197", "title": "Spheromak", "text": "Spheromak\n\nA spheromak is an arrangement of plasma formed into a toroidal shape similar to a smoke ring. The spheromak contains large internal electric currents and their associated magnetic fields arranged so the magnetohydrodynamic forces within the spheromak are nearly balanced, resulting in long-lived (microsecond) confinement times without external fields. Spheromaks belong to a type of plasma configuration referred to as the compact toroids.\n\nThe physics of the spheromak and of collisions between spheromaks is similar to a variety of astrophysical events, like coronal loops and filaments, relativistic jets and plasmoids. They are particularly useful for studying magnetic reconnection events, when two or more spheromaks collide. Spheromaks are easy to generate using a \"gun\" that ejects spheromaks off the end of an electrode into a holding area, called the flux conserver. This has made them useful in the laboratory setting, and spheromak guns are relatively common in astrophysics labs. These devices are often, confusingly, referred to simply as \"spheromaks\" as well; the term has two meanings.\n\nSpheromaks have been proposed as a magnetic fusion energy concept due to their long confinement times, which was on the same order as the best tokamaks when they were first studied. Although they had some successes during the 1970s and '80s, these small and lower-energy devices had limited performance and most spheromak research ended when fusion funding was dramatically curtailed in the late 1980s. However, in the late 1990s research demonstrated that hotter spheromaks have better confinement times, and this led to a second wave of spheromak machines. Spheromaks have also been used to inject plasma into a bigger magnetic confinement experiment like a tokamak.\n\nThe difference between a field-reversed configuration (FRC) and a spheromak is that a spheromak has an internal toroidal field while the FRC plasma does not. This field can run clockwise or counterclockwise to the spinning plasma direction.\n\nThe spheromak has undergone several distinct periods of investigation, with the greatest efforts during the 1980s, and a reemergence in the 2000s.\n\nA key concept in the understanding of the spheromak is magnetic helicity, a value formula_1 that describes the \"twistedness\" of the magnetic field in a plasma.\n\nThe earliest work on these concepts was developed by Hannes Alfvén in 1943, which won him the 1970 Nobel Prize in Physics. His development of the concept of Alfvén waves explained the long-duration dynamics of plasma as electric currents traveling within them produced magnetic fields which, in a fashion similar to a dynamo, gave rise to new currents. In 1950, Lundquist experimentally studied Alfvén waves in mercury and introduced the characterizing Lundquist number, which describes the plasma's conductivity. In 1958, Lodewijk Woltjer, working on astrophysical plasmas, noted that formula_1 is conserved, which implies that a twisty field will attempt to maintain its twistiness even with external forces being applied to it.\n\nStarting in 1959, Alfvén and a team including Lindberg, Mitlid and Jacobsen built a device to create balls of plasma for study. This device was identical to modern \"coaxial injector\" devices (see below) and the experimenters were surprised to find a number of interesting behaviors. Among these was the creation of stable rings of plasma. In spite of their many successes, in 1964 the researchers turned to other areas and the injector concept lay dormant for two decades.\n\nIn 1951 efforts to produce controlled fusion for power production began. These experiments generally used some sort of pulsed power to deliver the large magnetic forces required in the experiments. The current magnitudes and the resulting forces were unprecedented. In 1957 Harold Furth, Levine and Waniek reported on the dynamics of large magnets, demonstrating that the limiting factor in magnet performance was physical; stresses in the magnet would overcome its own mechanical limits. They proposed winding these magnets in such a way that the forces within the magnet windings cancelled out, the \"force-free condition\". Although it was not known at the time, this is the same magnetic field as in a spheromak.\n\nIn 1957 the ZETA (fusion reactor) machine started operation in the UK. ZETA was at that time by far the largest and most powerful fusion device in the world. It operated until 1968, by which time many devices matched its size. During its operation, the experimental team noticed that on occasion the plasma would maintain confinement long after the experimental run had ostensibly ended, although this was not then studied in depth. Years later in 1974, John Bryan Taylor characterized these self-stable plasmas, which he called \"quiescent\". He developed the Taylor state equilibrium concept, a plasma state that conserves helicity in its lowest possible energy state. This led to a re-awakening of compact toroid research.\n\nAnother approach to fusion was the theta pinch concept, which was similar to the z-pinch used in ZETA in theory, but used a different arrangement of currents and fields. While working on such a machine in the early 1960s, one designed with a conical pinch area, Bostick and Wells found that the machine sometimes created stable rings of plasma. A series of machines to study the phenomenon followed. One magnetic probe measurement found the toroidal magnetic field profile of a spheromak; the toroidal field was zero on axis, rose to a maximum at some interior point, and then went to zero at the wall. However, the theta-pinch failed to reach the high-energy conditions needed for fusion, and most work on theta-pinch had ended by the 1970s.\n\nThe key concept in fusion is the energy balance for any machine fusing a hot plasma.\n\nNet Power = Efficiency * (Fusion – Radiation Loss – Conduction Loss)\n\nThis forms the basis of the Lawson criterion. To increase fusion rates, research has focused on the \"triple product\" a combination of the plasma temperature, density and confinement time. Fusion devices generally fell into two classes, pulsed machines like the z-pinch that attempted to reach high densities and temperatures but only for microseconds, while steady state concepts such as the stellarator and magnetic mirror attempted to reach the Lawson criterion through longer confinement times.\n\nTaylor's work suggested that self-stable plasmas would be a simple way to approach the problem along the confinement time axis. This sparked a new round of theoretical developments. In 1979 Rosenbluth and Bussac published a paper describing generalizations of Taylor's work, including a spherical minimum energy state having zero toroidal field on the bounding surface. This means that there is no externally driven current on the device axis and so there are no external toroidal field coils. It appeared that this approach would allow for fusion reactors of greatly simpler design than the predominant stellarator and tokamak approaches.\n\nSeveral experimental devices emerged almost overnight. Wells recognized his earlier experiments as examples of these plasmas. He had moved to the University of Miami and started gathering funding for a device combining two of his earlier conical theta-pinch systems, which became Trisops. In Japan, Nihon University built the PS-1, which used a combination of theta and zeta pinches to produce spheromaks. Harold Furth was excited by the prospect of a less-expensive solution to the confinement issue, and started the S1 at the Princeton Plasma Physics Laboratory, which used inductive heating. Many of these early experiments were summarized by Furth in 1983.\n\nThese early MFE experiments culminated in the Compact Torus Experiment (CTX) at Los Alamos. This was this era's largest and most powerful device, generating spheromaks with surface currents of 1 MA, temperatures of 100 eV, and peak electron betas over 20%. CTX experimented with methods to re-introduce energy into the fully formed spheromak in order to counter losses at the surface. In spite of these early successes, by the late 1980s the tokamak had surpassed the confinement times of the spheromaks by orders of magnitude. For example, JET was achieving confinement times on the order of 1 second.\n\nThe major event that ended most spheromak work was not technical; funding for the entire US fusion program was dramatically curtailed in FY86, and many of the \"alternate approaches\", which included spheromaks, were defunded. Existing experiments in the US continued until their funding ran out, while smaller programs elsewhere, notably in Japan and the new SPHEX machine in the UK, continued from 1979–1997. CTX gained additional funding from the Defence Department and continued experiments until 1990; the last runs improved temperatures to 400 eV, and confinement times on the order of 3 ms.\n\nThrough the early 1990s spheromak work was widely used by the astrophysics community to explain various events and the spheromak was studied as an add-on to existing MFE devices.\n\nD.M. Rust and A. Kumar were particularly active in using magnetic helicity and relaxation to study solar prominences. Similar work was carried out at Caltech by Bellan and Hansen at Caltech, and the Swarthmore Spheromak Experiment (SSX) project at Swarthmore College.\n\nSome MFE work continued through this period, almost all of it using spheromaks as accessory devices for other reactors. Caltech and INRS-EMT in Canada both used accelerated spheromaks as a way to refuel tokamaks. Others studied the use of spheromaks to inject helicity into tokamaks, eventually leading to the Helicity Injected Spherical Torus (HIST) device and similar concepts for a number of existing devices.\n\nHammer, Hartman et al. showed that spheromaks could be accelerated to extremely high velocities using a railgun, which led to several proposed uses. Among these was the use of such plasmas as \"bullets\" to fire at incoming warheads with the hope that the associated electric currents would disrupt their electronics. This led to experiments on the Shiva Star system, although these were cancelled in the mid-1990s.\n\nOther proposed uses included firing spheromaks at metal targets to generate intense X-ray flashes as a backlighting source for other experiments. In the late 1990s spheromak concepts were applied towards the study of fundamental plasma physics, notably magnetic reconnection. Dual-spheromak machines were built at the University of Tokyo, Princeton (MRX) and Swarthmore College.\n\nIn 1994 T. Kenneth Fowler was summarizing the results from CTX's experimental runs in the 1980s when he noticed that confinement time was proportional to plasma temperature. This was unexpected; the ideal gas law generally states that higher temperatures in a given confinement area leads to higher density and pressure. In conventional devices such as the tokamak, this increased temperature/pressure increases turbulence that dramatically \"lowers\" confinement time. If the spheromak improved confinement with increased temperature, this suggested a new path towards an ignition-level spheromak reactor.\n\nThe promise was so great that several new MFE experiments started to study these issues. Notable among these is the Sustained Spheromak Physics Experiment (SSPX) at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, which studied the problems of generating long-life spheromaks through electrostatic injection of additional helicity. Also of note is the steady inductive helicity injected torus experiment (HIT-SI) at the University of Washington headed by Professor Thomas Jarboe. The success of sustaining spheromaks with evidence of pressure confinement on this experiment motivated the creation of a new spheromak-based fusion reactor concept called the Dynomak that is projected to be cost competitive with conventional power sources.\n\nForce free plasma vortices have uniform magnetic helicity and therefore are stable against many disruptions. Typically, the current decays faster in the colder regions until the gradient in helicity is large enough to allow a turbulent redistribution of the current.\n\nForce free vortices follow the following equations.\n\nThe first equation describes a Lorentz force-free fluid: the formula_4 forces are everywhere zero. For a laboratory plasma, α is a constant and β is a scalar function of spatial coordinates.\n\nNote that, unlike most plasma structures, the Lorentz force and the Magnus force, formula_5, play equivalent roles. formula_6 is the mass density.\n\nSpheromak magnetic flux surfaces are toroidal. The current is totally toroidal at the core and totally poloidal at the surface. This is similar to the field configuration of a tokamak, except that the field-producing coils are simpler and do not penetrate the plasma torus.\n\nSpheromaks are subject to external forces, notably the thermal gradient between the hot plasma and its cooler surroundings. Generally, this leads to a loss of energy at the outer surface of the spheromak though black-body radiation, leading to a thermal gradient in the spheromak itself. Electric current travels slower in the cooler sections, eventually leading to a redistribution of energy inside, and turbulence eventually destroys the spheromak.\n\nSpheromaks form naturally under a variety of conditions, enabling them to be generated in a number of ways.\n\nThe most common modern device is the Marshall gun or injector. The device consists of two nested, closed cylinders. The inner cylinder is shorter, leaving an empty space at the bottom. An electromagnet inside the inner cylinder sets up an initial field. The field is similar to that of a bar magnet, running vertically down the center of the inner cylinder and up the outside of the apparatus. The magnet is positioned so that the area where the field loops over from the center to outside, where the field lines are roughly horizontal, is aligned with the bottom of the inner cylinder.\n\nA small amount of gas is introduced to the area between the cylinders. A large electric charge supplied by a capacitor bank applied across the cylinders ionizes the gas. Currents induced in the resulting plasma interact with the original magnetic field, generating a Lorentz force that pushes the plasma away from the inner cylinder, into the empty area. After a short period the plasma stabilizes into a spheromak.\n\nOther common devices include open-ended or conical theta-pinch.\n\nSince the spheromak's magnetic confinement is self-generated, no external magnet coils are required. However, the spheromak does experience the \"tilting perturbation\" that allows it to rotate within the confinement area. This can be addressed with external magnets, but more often the confinement area is wrapped in a (typically copper) conductor. When the edge of the spheromak torus approaches the conductive surface, a current is induced into it that, following Lenz's law, reacts to push the spheromak back into the center of the chamber.\n\nIt is also possible to get the same effect with a single conductor running down the center of the chamber, through the \"hole\" in the center of the spheromak. As this conductor's currents are self-generated, it adds little complexity to the design. However, stability can be further improved by running an external current in the central conductor. As the current scales up it approaches the conditions of a traditional tokamak, but in a much smaller size and simpler form. This evolution led to considerable research on the spherical tokamak during the 1990s.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1997199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997199", "title": "Walter Scott Jr.", "text": "Walter Scott Jr.\n\nWalter Scott Jr. (born May 21, 1931) is an American civil engineer, philanthropist, and former CEO of Peter Kiewit Sons' Incorporated.\n\nHe graduated from Colorado State University in 1953 with a bachelor's degree in civil engineering.\n\nScott was first elected to the Peter Kiewit Sons' Incorporated board in 1964. In 1979, he was elected president. When Peter Kiewit died later that same year, Scott was selected to succeed him as chairman.\n\nHe sits on the board of Berkshire Hathaway, and is a childhood friend of Warren Buffett. He is also on the board of directors of Burlington Resources, Commonwealth Telephone Enterprises, Level 3 Communications Inc., MidAmerican Energy Holdings, RCN Corporation, Valmont Industries, and Peter Kiewit Sons' Inc, and is the chairman of the Open World Leadership Center at the Library of Congress. He is a director of the Joslyn Art Museum, Nebraska Game and Parks Foundation, and the Omaha Development Foundation. Nationally, he is a director of the Horatio Alger Association and the National Forest Association.\n\nScott is chairman of Level 3 Communications. The corporation is one of the firms created by the 1998 separation of the two operating divisions of Peter Kiewit Sons' Inc. Since the split-off, Scott now serves as chairman Emeritus of Peter Kiewit Sons', Inc.\n\nScott consistently ranks among the wealthiest Americans. With his wife, Suzanne, he founded the public, non-profit Suzanne and Walter Scott Foundation which has funded the Scott Atrium & Education Center at University of Nebraska Medical Center, the Scott Technology Center in Omaha, and .\n\nIn June 2010, when Warren Buffett appealed to him to join the Giving Pledge, he partially accepted, stating that after his death his remaining estate will go into his eponymous foundation.\n\nIn 2011 he committed $10 million to the construction of Engineering II, a $70 million, building which will house interdisciplinary energy, environment and health programs at Colorado State University.\n\nIn November 2016 it was announced Scott would be donating $53.3 million to Colorado State University School of Engineering, CSU's largest ever gift, and that the College of Engineering at CSU will be renamed the Walter Scott Jr. College of Engineering, becoming the only named college of engineering in the state of Colorado.\n\nIn 1996 Scott acquired the original sales document of the Louisiana Purchase for his private collection.\n\nScott was the 1997 recipient of the Horatio Alger Award.\n\nHe became an Eagle Scout in 1946 and is a recipient of the Distinguished Eagle Scout Award.\n\nScott's second wife Sue Scott had been a good friend of his first wife, Carolyn, who died in 1983, but did not know Walter. They married in 1987 at their place of worship, Countryside Community Church. Suzanne died in 2013.\n"}
{"id": "1997200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997200", "title": "Robert Hoehl", "text": "Robert Hoehl\n\nRobert \"Bob\" Hoehl (December 13, 1941 – November 7, 2010) was a co-founder of the software company IDX Systems and a Vermont philanthropist.\n\nBorn in Brooklyn, NY, Hoehl earned a basketball scholarship to Saint Michael's College in Colchester, Vermont, where he graduated in 1963 with a degree in mathematics. After working at IBM as a computer programmer, he founded Burlington Data Processing (BDP) in 1969 with Richard Tarrant. BDP ultimately changed its name to IDX Systems Corporation and became a leading provider of software to the health care industry. GE Healthcare purchased IDX in 2005 for $1.2 billion.\n\nHoehl and his wife Cynthia have supported many Vermont organizations, including Community Health Center of Burlington, Preservation Trust of Vermont, Newman Catholic Center at the University of Vermont, Lake Champlain Basin Science Center, Saint Michael's College,the Stern Center for Language and Learning the Boys and Girls Club, and Vermont's United Way. The Hoehls also funded the Hoehl Welcome Center at Saint Michael's College.\n\nHoehl died at his home in Ferrisburgh, Vermont in 2010 after a six-week hospitalization. He was married to Cynthia Hoehl (died 2016), who also had engaged in philanthropic work in Vermont.\n"}
{"id": "1997202", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997202", "title": "Alias Enterprises", "text": "Alias Enterprises\n\nAlias Enterprises is a United States publishing company. Their main divisions are Alias Comics (all-ages comic books) and Cross Culture (Christian comic books). Based in San Diego, California, it was founded in January 2005 by Brett Burner and Mike S. Miller. They publish comics such as \"Lullaby\", \"The 10th Muse\", \"The Legend of Isis\", and \"Sixgun Samurai\".\n\nAlias was founded by artist Mike S. Miller and publisher Brett Burner (also owner of Lamp Post Publications). In January 2005, they launched their first productions through Image Comics filling a virtually untapped market with three all-ages titles: \"Lullaby: Wisdom Seeker\", \"Lions, Tigers and Bears\", and \"The Imaginaries\". All three were successful projects in the independent marketplace, particularly \"Lullaby\", which has seen continuing success since its initial release. Also in 2005, Alias expanded into a self-publishing company with plans to launch 12 titles in April of that year with cover prices of 75 cents. The titles all shipped late and were released irregularly afterwards, but landed them a spot with Diamond Comic Distributors as a Top 20 Publisher.\n\nAlias Comics offered 25-cent preview issues, 75-cent introductory issues, and 50,000 copies of free (to retailer) preview books called \"the Comic Book Digest\" as marketing efforts, but continued to have problems with shipping. In mid-2005, Alias chose to move its comic printing stateside, but due to the accumulation of problems at the domestic printer, decided to go back to its original partner in South Korea. The subsequent lapse in shipping, going from a domestic printer to a South Korean printer, resulted in a two- to three-month lapse in delivery of Alias comic books to comic stores. Being gone from the shelves for so long created several problems for the fledgling company, causing a loss of retailer and consumer confidence.\n\nNearly a year after opening their doors, several Alias comic book creators began to leave the publisher, citing various concerns. In 2005, studios Monkey Pharmacy, Runemaster Studios, and Dabel Brothers Productions stopped producing books for publication by Alias. In November, Alias underwent a restructuring plan. Its publisher, Brett Burner, purchased majority shares of the company in order to take control of the company's financial records.\n\nIn March 2006, Alias announced a new policy toward its creators requiring work to be completed and in-hand before being solicited for publication, citing an effort to maintain a more exact release schedule. Later, Alias signed an agreement with Christian publisher Zondervan to produce 24 manga or graphic novels to be released over the next few years through its Cross Culture division, consisting of three 8-book series. These titles included \"Hand of the Morningstar\", \"Kingdoms\", and \"The Manga Bible\".\n\nAlso in 2006, Alias' Christian division, Cross Culture Entertainment, began publication of \"Bubblemag\", a Christian pop culture magazine. In Fall 2006, Alias executives announced their intention to rebrand Alias Comics as a Christian comic company. Within a few weeks, Abacus Comics opened for business. Abacus Comics is owned solely by Miller, and was opened for the express purpose of publishing several of his \"creator-owned\" titles which were initially run through Alias Comics.\n\nIn 2007, Lamp Post Inc. obtained full rights to all Alias and Cross Culture properties, placing them under its label.\n\nIn alphabetical order:\n\n\nComics that went to other venues after publication at Alias:\n\n\nComics that came to Alias after initial publication at another venue:\n\n\nCancelled Alias comics:\n\n\nAccording to the sales estimates from industry resource site ICv2, Alias' top-selling monthly comics for their first year were: \n\nNOTE: These are only initial pre-order sales via Diamond Comic Distributors U.S. and do not include possible reorders or sales through other channels.\n\n"}
{"id": "1997205", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997205", "title": "Chambre Ardente", "text": "Chambre Ardente\n\nLa chambre ardente (French pronunciation ) was the name given to a special court established for the trial of heretics in France during the reign of Francis I in the 16th century. The name has been translated to mean \"the fiery chamber.\"\n\nSpecial courts designated for the exclusive trials of heretics in France were first instituted in the Parlement de Rouen on April 17, 1545.\n\nAt that time approximately two years before the death of Francis in March of 1547, the number of heretics in prisons in Normandy awaiting trial was so great that the prisons could barely contain them. To remedy the situation, Francis \"authorized the erection in the Parliament of Rouen of a special chamber, consisting of ten or twelve of the most learned and zealous judges, to take cognizance of the crime of heresy to the exclusion of all other employments\".\n\nApproximately two years later when Francis died and Henry II took the throne, he deemed the special courts in Rouen as a successful experiment and instituted similar courts \"upon a larger scale in the highest court of the realm, the Parlement of Paris. The members of the new commission were selected from among the parliamentary counselors who were removed from any suspicion of heresy and known to be active in the prosecution of offenses against 'mother holy Church. It is believed that this special court in Paris was instituted sometime between December 1547 and May 1548. \n\nThis special court ultimately came to have a reputation of \"sending to the flames as many as fell into its hands\" and gained the unofficial designation of \"la chambre ardente\". Despite its reputation, an examination of 323 case histories pertaining to individuals on trial during a twenty-three-month time period from May 1548 to March 1550 reveals that many of those arrested and put on trial for heresy escaped a dire punishment.\n\nOf the 323 cases examined, approximately two-thirds of the cases had come to a final verdict. Of the sentences pronounced, 39 individuals were able to vindicate themselves and were set free with only an injunction that they live \"as good Christians in the holy Catholic faith\". The punishment associated with 142 cases was meaning an \"honorable penalty\". The \"penalties\" in these cases were fairly mild and included fines, public ceremonies of penance, banishments, and beatings with warnings never to engage in heresy again. And finally, 37 sentences of death were pronounced of which 6 individuals were put to death by fire while 31 individuals were simply hung.\n\nIt is also interesting to examine the occupations of the 323 individuals on trial for heresy. Almost fifty percent of those on trial or 153 individuals were lower and middle class artisans, merchants, and small shop owners. Nearly a third of those on trial or 111 individuals were members of the clergy. 47 individuals were members of the upper class with professions such as barristers and solicitors. Twelve individuals were nobles. While it might appear that the focus of heresy prosecution was the lower or middle class, the greatest target was clergymen as their percent of the population was less than five percent.\n\nNo peasants were included among those on trial. This can likely be explained by the fact that the Protestant theology as taught by John Calvin and other reformers was unattractive to peasants. The ideas and beliefs of the Protestant theology were alien. The Protestant theology was a \"religion of the book\" that made intellectual demands upon those wishing to explore and learn. The books and pamphlets espousing John Calvin's works were written in either French or Latin. Such intellectual demands were beyond the capabilities of an uneducated peasantry that could neither afford books nor read anything but the local patois that dominated the rural areas. As so, most peasants at the time retained their traditional allegiance and belief in the tenets of the Catholic Church.\n\nBy an edict on November 19, 1549, Henry II relieved French judges of their duties associated with these special courts effective on January 11, 1550. The attempt to eliminate heresy with special courts had proved to be a failure and a new approach of sending heretics to the bishops and Church courts for trial was to be implemented. Three years later, the King's edict of Saint Germain en Laye on March 1, 1553 reestablished the courts. It is unclear as to how long the revived tribunals continued thereafter before permanently being abolished.\n"}
{"id": "1997209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997209", "title": "Honda K engine", "text": "Honda K engine\n\nThe Honda K-series engine is a line of four-cylinder four-stroke car engine introduced in 2001. The K-series engines are equipped with DOHC valvetrains and use roller rockers to reduce friction. The engines use a coil-on-plug, distributorless ignition system with a coil for each spark plug. This system forgoes the use of a conventional distributor-based ignition timing system in favor of a computer-controlled system that allows the ECU to control ignition timings based on various sensor inputs. The cylinders have cast iron sleeves similar to the B- and F-series engines, as opposed to the FRM cylinders found in the H- and newer F-series engines found only in the Honda S2000.\n\nSimilar to B series, the K-series car engines have two short blocks with the same design; the only difference between them being the deck height. K20 uses the short block with a deck height of 212mm where K23 and K24 block has a deck height of 231.5mm.\n\nTwo versions of the Honda i-VTEC system can be found on a K-series engine, and both versions can come with variable timing control (VTC) on the intake cam. The VTEC system on engines like the K20A3 only operate on the intake cam; at low rpm only one intake valve is fully opened, the other opening just slightly to create a swirl effect in the combustion chamber for improved fuel atomization. At high rpm, both intake valves open fully to improve engine breathing. In engines such as the K20A2 found in the Acura RSX Type-S, the VTEC system operates on both the intake and exhaust valves, allowing both to benefit from multiple cam profiles. A modified K20C engine is used in motorsport, as the Sports Car Club of America Formula 3 and 4 series that run in North America both use a K20C engine, with the Formula 4 engine not having a turbocharger.\n\nK20A Spec R engine (FD2 Civic Type R)\nSimilar to K20A3 and K20A1\n\n\n\n\nK20Z3 (as fitted to Ariel's Atom 3.5)\n\n\n\nK24A2 and K24A3 (2006-2008 Acura TSX)\n\nDirect Injection, iVTEC (intake camshaft & valvetrain)\n\n[Please add accurate technical specifications] This section previously inaccurately suggested that the 2016-2017+ Acura ILX engine K24V7 and the K24W7 of the Acura TLX are the same engine, and although they may be very closely related, even sharing identical internal architecture and components, they actually are different engines with different Honda internal engine code designations. This may be strictly due to different transmissions, as the 2016-2017+ ILX uses its own specific 8-speed dual-clutch auto with a torque converter, as well as different exhaust, intake, and accessory packaging due to their differing chassis [the ILX sharing its basic architecture with the 2013 - 2016 generation Civic].\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1997217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997217", "title": "Joe Louis Walker", "text": "Joe Louis Walker\n\nJoe Louis Walker, also known as JLW (born December 25, 1949) is an American musician, best known as an electric blues guitarist, singer, songwriter and producer. His knowledge of blues history is revealed by his use of older material and playing styles.\n\n\"NPR Music\" described him as \"Powerful, soul-stirring, fierce and gritty...a legendary boundary-pushing icon of modern blues.\" Another music journalist noted \"If you define 'blues' by the rigid categories of structure rather than the flexible language of feeling allusion, Robert Cray... Larry Garner, Joe Louis Walker and James Armstrong are a new and uncategorizable breed, their music blues-like rather than blues, each of them blending ideas and devices from a variety of sources – soul, rock, jazz, gospel – with a sophisication beyond the reach of their forerunners\".\n\nHe was born Louis Joseph Walker Jr. in San Francisco, United States. He came from a musical family, amidst the early influences of T-Bone Walker, B.B. King, Meade Lux Lewis, Amos Milburn, and Pete Johnson. Walker first picked up the guitar at the age of eight, and became a known quantity within the Bay Area music scene by the age of 16. While publicly performing through his teens, he soaked up many influences (especially vocalists such as Wilson Pickett, James Brown, Bobby Womack and Otis Redding). In these early years, Walker played with John Lee Hooker, J.J. Malone, Buddy Miles, Otis Rush, Thelonious Monk, The Soul Stirrers, Willie Dixon, Charlie Musselwhite, Steve Miller, Nick Lowe, John Mayall, Earl Hooker, Muddy Waters, and Jimi Hendrix. By 1968, he had forged a friendship with Mike Bloomfield; they were roommates for many years until Bloomfield's untimely death.\n\nThis event was the catalyst that placed Walker into a lifestyle change. He left the world of the blues and enrolled himself at San Francisco State University, achieving a degree in Music and English. Throughout this time, Walker was regularly performing with The Spiritual Corinthians Gospel Quartet. After a 1985 performance at the New Orleans Jazz & Heritage Festival, he was inspired to return to his blues roots whereupon he formed the \"Bosstalkers\" and signed to the HighTone label. Under the auspices of Bruce Bromberg and Dennis Walker, his debut album, \"Cold Is The Night\" was released in 1986. He began a worldwide touring schedule, delivering a four more releases in succession for HighTone (\"The Gift\" (1988), \"Blue Soul\" (1989), \"Live at Slims Vol 1\" (1991), and \"Live at Slims Volume 2\" (1992).\n\nAfter the long partnership with HighTone, Walker was signed by Polygram to their Verve/Gitanes record label. His first of many Polygram releases ensued with \"Blues Survivor\" in 1993. This marked the beginning of an eclectic era that merged many of his gospel, jazz, soul, funk and rock influences with his trademark blues sensibilities. 1993 also saw the release of B.B. King's Grammy Award-winning \"Blues Summit\" album, which featured a duet with Walker (a Walker original, \"Everybody's Had the Blues\"). This was followed up by a live DVD release, featuring another duet with Walker (a rendition of \"T-Bone Shuffle\").\n\n\"JLW\" was released in 1994, featuring guests such as James Cotton, Branford Marsalis, and the Tower of Power horn section.\nDuring this period, Walker's touring schedule saw many re-appearances at the world's music festivals (North Sea Jazz, Montreux, Glastonbury, San Francisco, Russian River Jazz, Monterey, New Orleans Jazz & Heritage, Byron Bay, Australia, Notodden, Lucerne, and at the Beacon Theatre in New York City). Walker also spent years covering all the major western television networks (Conan O'Brien, Imus, Jools Holland UK, inauguration for George W. Bush, inducting B.B. King for President Bill Clinton and Hillary Clinton into the Kennedy Centre Honors, \"Ohne Filter\", Germany, Rock and Roll Hall of Fame) as well as numerous worldwide TV networks.\n\n\"Blues of the Month Club\" was released in 1995, and was the first of three Walker albums that were co-produced with Steve Cropper. This was followed up by the release of \"Great Guitars\" in 1997. Walker's guest musicians on this release, included Bonnie Raitt, Buddy Guy, Taj Mahal, Clarence \"Gatemouth\" Brown, Otis Rush, Scotty Moore, Robert Lockwood, Jr., Matt \"Guitar\" Murphy, Steve Cropper, Tower of Power, and Ike Turner.\n\nAlso in 1996, Walker played guitar on James Cotton's, \"Deep in the Blues\", a Grammy Award winner for \"Best Traditional Blues Album\". In addition, Walker won his third Blues Music Award for \"Band of the Year\" (1996) which was preceded by two similar awards for \"Contemporary Male Artist of the Year\" (1988 and 1991). Walker also won the 1995 Bammy (Bay Area Music Award) for \"Blues Musician of the Year\". He then released \"Preacher and the President\" in 1998 and \"Silvertone Blues\" in 1999 (his sixth album for Polygram). This sequence continued with \"In The Morning\" (Telarc 2002), \"Pasa Tiempo\" (Evidence 2002), \"Guitar Brothers\" (JSP 2002), \"She's My Money Maker\" (JSP 2003), \"Ridin' High\" (Hightone 2003), \"New Direction\" (Provogue 2004) and \"Playin' Dirty\" (JSP 2006).\n\nIn 2002, he featured on the Bo Diddley tribute album, \"Hey Bo Diddley – A Tribute!\", performing the song \"Who Do You Love?\".\n\nIn March 2008, Walker signed to Stony Plain Records, and recorded his first album for the label in April (produced by Duke Robillard). This album featured guest appearances by Robillard and Todd Sharpville, and was released in September 2008. His second album for the label was released in September 2009 entitled, \"Between A Rock and The Blues\". This album featured Kevin Eubanks as a special guest, best known for his work as the musical director for \"The Tonight Show with Jay Leno\". This album garnered five nominations in the 2010 Blues Music Awards.\n\nIn 2012, Walker signed with Chicago-based Alligator Records and released \"Hellfire\", produced by Tom Hambridge. \"Billboard\" Magazine called it \"One of the strongest albums in Walker's canon. Hellfire blows all over the map…gutbucket blues, joyous gospel, Rolling Stones-style rock crunch, and aching R&B. Walker's guitar playing is fine and fierce. \"Hellfire\" is a heavenly showcase for Walker's virtues.\" In 2014, Alligator released \"Hornet's Nest\", also produced by Hambridge. The \"Chicago Sun-Times\" said: \"Hard rock to gospel, \"Hornet's Nest\" is proudly modern, designed to rest comfortably alongside anything from the Black Keys or Jack White. Walker's voice demands attention: scorching, imploring, always commanding, it leads this dynamic album along with his heavy guitar fills that lay the ground work for the horn-peppered soul, Memphis soul, gospel harmony, and a vortex of power chords and funk. He is living proof of the boundless potential of blues.\"\n\nIn 2013, Walker was inducted to the Blues Hall of Fame. In addition that year, Walker was nominated in four categories for a Blues Music Award.\n\nHis album \"Everybody Wants a Piece (2015)\" was nominated for a Grammy. In an interview with PatchChord News in early December he shared his philosophy about music, saying \"Don't be afraid to add other cultures into your sound.\" \n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1997228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997228", "title": "Derek Bedson", "text": "Derek Bedson\n\nDerek Robert Campbell Bedson, (October 21, 1920 – May 14, 1989) was a Canadian civil servant.\n\nBorn in London, England, the grandson of Samuel Lawrence Bedson, he was raised in Manitoba. In 1941, he received a Bachelor of Arts in history from the University of Manitoba. He studied at Balliol College, Oxford, after serving in the Royal Canadian Army Service Corps during World War II. While at Oxford, he formed a lifelong friendship with George Grant.\n\nIn 1947, he joined the federal civil service. He worked two years with the Ministry of Mines and Resources before he became a Foreign Services Officer with External Affairs from 1949 to 1955. From 1953 to 1955, he was with the Canadian delegation at the United Nations.\n\nIn 1955, he became the private secretary of George Drew. In 1956, Drew was replaced by John Diefenbaker and he became his private secretary as well.In 1958, Duff Roblin appointed him Clerk of the Executive Council of Manitoba. He served until he was forced to resign in 1981.\n\nIn 1978, he was made an Officer of the Order of Canada.\n\n"}
{"id": "1997230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997230", "title": "Humberside Airport", "text": "Humberside Airport\n\nHumberside Airport is an international airport at Kirmington in the Borough of North Lincolnshire, England, from three large settlements: Grimsby (east), Hull (north) and Scunthorpe (west), on the A18, the latter two places reached by longer roads, in the case of Hull via England's longest bridge that crosses the Humber. It was owned by Manchester Airports Group (the largest UK-owned airport group) from 1999 until 1 August 2012, when it was sold to the Eastern Group of companies. North Lincolnshire Council retains a minority of shares in the Airport.\n\nThe airport was previously a Royal Air Force base, RAF Kirmington, opened in 1941 during the Second World War, from which No. 166 Squadron RAF operated the Avro Lancaster. The site was abandoned after the war in 1945, and lay unused until 1974 when the local council re-opened the site as Kirmington Airport. When the local area was renamed Humberside following local government re-organisation in England, the name was changed to Humberside Airport. The main runway, designated 03/21 (since redesignated 02/20) was extended to its current length in 1992, allowing operation of much larger aircraft.\n\nIn 2008, MAG announced that it was conducting a review of its strategy for Humberside Airport, and all options including disposal were under consideration. Initially it announced plans to sell Humberside Airport after nine years of ownership. In December 2008, MAG announced it intended to retain Humberside Airport, due to a number of investments, such as the new £1.6 million perishables hub, coupled with a surge in passenger numbers and little interest from potential bidders.\n\nMAG sold its 83.7% share of Humberside in 2012 for £2.3 million to Eastern Group to focus on the larger airports in its portfolio. It was later revealed that MAG had bought the airport for almost £8 million more in 1999.\nBristow Helicopters sold Eastern Airways in 2019, but retained its majority share of Humberside Airport.\n\nThe airport faces competition for flights from East Midlands Airport (), Doncaster Sheffield Airport () which opened in 2005 and Leeds Bradford Airport (); all of which have at a much wider range of scheduled passenger flights. Passengers at the airport peaked in the early to mid-2000s when the facility was used by around 500,000 per year. This fell to around 200,000 passengers in 2016.\n\nIn October 2013 SAS Group began daily operations to Copenhagen, only to withdraw the service in April 2014 because of disappointing passenger numbers. However, Sun Air launched twice-weekly flights to Aalborg and Billund in April 2016, in order to support the off-shore wind industry in the Humber and Jutland locations. These flights were also suspended in December 2016.\n\nThe airport is also used to service the offshore gas storage and drilling operations for BP and Centrica Storage with over 5,000 air transport helicopter movements in 2016, the fourth highest in the UK. On 3 January 2013 it was reported that Bond Offshore Helicopters had been awarded a contract with Perenco and would start operating flights to Perenco's platforms in the Southern North Sea. This now means that the airport has three of the biggest UK Helicopter operators based at the airport.\n\nFrom 1 April 2015 Bristow Helicopters commenced operations from a new UK Search and Rescue base at Humberside. In October 2016 Bristow Helicopters and Bond (now Babcock) moved their offshore operations to Norwich, leaving CHC and UNI-FLY as the remaining helicopter companies based at Humberside. CHC will commence a new contract for Ørsted (formerly DONG Energy) in April 2018, supporting North Sea wind farm construction.\n\nHumberside has one of the highest NEQ approval levels of any airport in Europe, and saw significant growth in cargo throughput from 144 tonnes in 2007 to 1,132 tonnes in 2011. This was due to regular flights by Icelandair Cargo, however these ceased to operate in 2012 and cargo had reduced to 123 tonnes in 2016.\n\nHumberside International has a CAA Public Use Aerodrome Licence (Number P739) that allows flights for the public transport of passengers or for flying instruction. It has a very high amount of general aviation activity, with 5 resident flying clubs and organisations offering fixed wing and rotary training. Weston Aviation opened in May 2011 a fixed based operation (FBO). This will be the first dedicated FBO at the airport where the company has also opened a regional charter sales office to promote and develop the use of business and private aviation in Yorkshire and the Humber.\n\nThe following airlines operate regular scheduled and charter flights to and from Humberside:\n\nAlongside the above flights, charter flights take place to Iceland, Lapland and Italy. Eastern Airways also operate various weekend city breaks from the airport within Europe.\n\nA daytime bus service operated by Stagecoach runs to the airport Monday to Saturday, hourly from Grimsby, and half-hourly from Hull, which is named as the \"Humber Flyer\" service. A local service, serving the villages surrounding the airport is run by Hornsby Travel (a Scunthorpe company) from Monday to Friday.\n\nThe airport lies close to the South Humberside Main Line, which runs between Doncaster and the coast at Grimsby and Cleethorpes, running a few hundred metres to the north of the terminal. There is no stop on the line at this point and passengers must alight at the small, rural and unmanned Barnetby railway station some 2.5 miles (4 km) to the west of the airport, or proceed to Grimsby or Hull and use the bus service.\n\nThe airline Eastern Airways has its head office in the Schiphol House on the airport property. Links Air was based at the airport, but moved to Doncaster Sheffield Airport in 2014.\n\nBAE Systems opened an aircraft maintenance academy at the airport in the autumn of 2015. It is a partnership with the Resource Group and is known as the R J Mitchell Academy, after the designer of the Spitfire aircraft.\n\nIn 2010 a temporary hotel was erected for the use by the gas and oil rig workers. However, this operation is not designed or licensed to operate as accommodation for normal passengers. This is a temporary structure run by Nightel, a locally based niche business, there will be a permanent structure built in the next five years once demand for the facility has been confirmed. A new 100 bedroom hotel, operating under the Hampton by Hilton brand, opened next to Nightel in July 2017.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1997237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997237", "title": "Gabriel Daniel", "text": "Gabriel Daniel\n\nGabriel Daniel (8 February 1649 – 23 June 1728) was a French Jesuit historian.\n\nBorn in Rouen, he was educated by the Jesuits, entered the order at the age of eighteen, and became superior at Paris.\n\nHe is best known by his \"Histoire de France depuis l'établissement de la monarchie française\" (first complete edition, 1713), which was republished in 1720, 1721, 1725, 1742, and (the last edition, with notes by Henri Griffet) 1755–1760. Daniel published an abridgment in 1724 (English trans., 1726), and another abridgment was published by Dorival in 1751.\n\nThough full of prejudices which affect his accuracy, Daniel had the advantage of consulting valuable original sources. His \"Histoire de la milice française\", etc. (1721) is superior to his \"Histoire de France\". Daniel also wrote a reply to Pascal's \"Provincial Letters\", entitled \"Entretiens de Cleanthe et d'Eudoxe sur les lettres provinciales\" (1694); two treatises on Descartes' theory as to the intelligence of the lower animals, and other works.\n\n"}
{"id": "1997244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997244", "title": "Ferrocarriles Argentinos", "text": "Ferrocarriles Argentinos\n\nFerrocarriles Argentinos (FA) (in English: Argentine Railways) was a state-owned company that managed the entire Argentine railway system for nearly 45 years. It was formed in 1948 when all the private railway companies were nationalised during Juan Perón's first presidential term, and transformed into the \"Empresa de Ferrocarriles del Estado Argentino\" (EFEA) (in English: Argentine State Railways Company).\n\nFA managed both, passenger and freight services, including long-distance and commuter rail trains in the metropolitan area of Buenos Aires.\n\nThe company was broken up under the government of Carlos Menem following the privatisation of the railways; however in 2015 the government of Cristina Kirchner revived the brand for use on state-owned railways.\n\nIn April 1946 some British companies executives, such as Reginald Leeper (then ambassador in Argentina) and Wilfred Eady, representative of several railway companies in Argentina, started to make the arrangements for the sale of their companies to the Argentine state. A commission led by Eady arrived in Buenos Aires during the winter of 1946. The Argentine Government approved the creation of a joint company to operate British railways, reestablishing the tax exemptions that had been in force during Law n° 5,315, also named \"Mitre Law\".\n\nOn December 17, 1946, a contract was signed by Miguel Miranda, president of Instituto Argentino de Promoción del Intercambio and the ambassador Wladimir D'Ormesson for the sale of French companies in Argentina at a global price of A$ 182,796,173 (about US$45 million). That included Compañía General de Buenos Aires, Province of Santa Fe and Rosario and Pto. Belgrano Railways.\n\nTwo weeks after the agreement signed with French companies, the Government made an offer of £ 125 million to British companies although the railways were finally acquired at £150 million. The acquisition would be paid by Argentina with exports of meat and cereal to Great Britain, which would transfer the money to the former owners of the rail companies. On March 1, 1948, the Argentine government led by president Juan Perón took over the British railways. The acquisition of the foreign railways was shown by the government as an act of sovereignty that would contribute to development of Argentine industry.\n\nAfter the nationalisation, the Argentine network continued expansion until 1954, when it reached a peak of length, the most in its history. The Argentine network was also the biggest in Latin America.\n\nAfter the nationalisation all the Argentine network was grouped into six railway divisions named after distinguished Argentine presidents and national heroes (such as José de San Martín, Manuel Belgrano, Domingo Sarmiento, Justo José de Urquiza, Bartolomé Mitre and Julio A. Roca) according to their track gauge and locality. Apart from former British and French companies, Argentine ones also became part of \"Ferrocarriles Argentinos\", the state-owned company specifically created after the nationalisation to manage the entire railway network.\n\nThe list of divisions that Ferrocarriles Argentinos was divided into was as follows:\n\nAfter the nationalisation, the Midland and Compañía General rail lines became part of Belgrano Railway while the Province of Buenos Aires Railway was transferred to the state in December 1951, operating as an independent unit until 1953 when it was finally added to Belgrano network.\n\nOn January 1, 1954, a new state-owned company, \"Ferrocarril Nacional Provincia de Buenos Aires\" was establishing, with the infrastructure and rolling stock from former French companies. The railway network formerly operated by Midland became \"M\" line, while the Compañía General line became \"G\" line.\n\nOn May 14, 1949, the Argentine state acquired the Buenos Aires Central Railway, owned by the Lacroze Brothers, adding it to the standard gauge General Urquiza Railway network. In 1954 the new General Urquiza railway terminus in Buenos Aires was inaugurated, naming it \"Federico Lacroze\". The narrow gauge \"Ferrocarril Depietri\" railway (that connected cities of San Pedro and Arrecifes) would be later added in November 1949.\n\nNevertheless, trains would be never run again on the line because the Provincial Railway did not showed interest in the 68-km length line. The recently created Belgrano Railway did not take over the line. Therefore, the Argentine state returned the line to \"Ferrocarriles y Elevadores Depietri\" company. Depietri decided to bid the railway infrastructure as scrap. The state finally compensated Depietri for the deterioration of the line and the stolen material in 1975.\n\nIn Patagonia region there were only a bunch of rail lines built and managed by the state but not connect between. They were FC Viedma-Nahuel Huapi, Comodoro Rivadavia Railway, Puerto Deseado Railway, all of them of broad gauge. Other railways were of narrow gauge, such as La Trochita, Gral. Vintter to Gral. Conesa (108 km) and Central Chubut Railway that connected Puerto Madryn with Playa Unión and Alto Las Plumas.\n\nThose lines were managed by state-owned Ferrocarriles Patagónicos with the exception of Viedma-Bariloche and Jacobbacci-Esquel that had become part of General Roca Railway after nationalisation. The rest of the network would be added in 1956.\n\nLikewise, other branches were closed, such as the 1,9-km length to Basilica of Our Lady of Luján, where thousand of pilgrims arrived each December 8. to celebrate Solemnity of the Virgin Mary. Services were cancelled in 1955 and the station demolished, while its tracks were lifted a year later. The Municipality of Luján built a park (named \"Basílica\") on the same land where the station stood.\n\nAt the moment of being nationalised, most part of Argentine railways' locomotives still were steam-powered and long-distance trips were in wooden coaches. It was not until the 1950s when the Government acquired brand new diesel locomotives produced in the United States, more specifically General Motors and Baldwin-Lima-Hamilton and Budd Company coaches that would be used in \"El Marplatense\", an express service from Constitución to Mar del Plata with multiple luxury services.\n\nDespite the success of \"El Marplatense\", FA did not acquired new material from Budd Co., being Dutch company Werkspoor the new locomotives and coaches supplier. The Werskpoor rolling stock was used for services to Mendoza, Córdoba and Tucumán.\n\nDuring those years the first diesel locomotive manufactured in Argentina (named \"Justicialista\" and produced at Liniers workshops by national company Fábrica Argentina de Locomotoras (\"FAdeL\") was launched in October 1951 by President Perón and its designer and builder, engineer Pedro Sacaggio. That locomotive (officially, \"CM1\") started to run in the summer of 1952-53 serving in \"El Marplatense\" and completing the 400-km length in only 4 hours. The CM1 was also used for services to Bariloche and Mendoza at an average speed of 90 km/h.\n\nThe second model by FADEL was the CM2 \"La Argentina\", powered with diesel engines by Italian manufacturers FIAT Ferroviaria and Cantieri Riuniti Dell Adriático. Nevertheless, the project to produce 600 locomotives was aborted by the Revolución Libertadora that took the Government in 1955. FADEL was subsecquently closed and the plan of construction dismissed.\n\nAfter the closure of FADEL, Ferrocarriles Argentinos committed a company the manufacturing of 280 locomotives that would be powered with the 280 engines that had been acquired to FIAT, originally intended to be used in the FADEL machines to built. The new manufacturer was a local Italian-Argentine consortium named \"Gruppo Aziende Italiane e Argentine\" (mostly known for its acronym \"GAIA\"). The first 80 units and their engines were totally manufactured in Italy and the remaining 200 were built in Argentina between 1964 and 1970, using mostly national components. Despite the efforts to make a reliable locomotive for the Argentine railways, the GAIA machines did not satisfy the expectations and many units would be removed from circulations, remaining only a few locomotives serving at FA.\n\nIn 1958 Sociedad Material Ferroviario (\"Materfer\") was established by Fiat Ferroviaria, through Fiat Concord, a consortium formed by many FIAT subsidiaries operating in Argentina. The company built a factory to manufacture rolling stock in the country to provide goods for FA.\n\nThat same year the Ministry of Transport of Argentina signed an agreement with Fiat Ferroviaria to acquire 210 brand-new railcars. Those machines were formed by 2 units powered by a FIAT diesel engine at 660 HP. The railcars could reach speeds of 115 km/h. Their low weight made them suitable to run on any railway line. The vehicles also had two driver cabins, one on each end of the car, which reduced the time of manoeuvres at termini stations, particularly in urban services.\n\nRailcars were built in the FIAT factories of Turin, Decauville and Córdoba. Although the first railcars were manufactured in Italy and France, most of them were made in Argentina, in a factory specially designed for that assignment located in Ferreyra, Córdoba and named \"Materfer\". In 1962, the 7131, a railcar manufactured by FIAT Concord, made its debut in the Villa Ballester-Zárate and Victoria-Capilla del Señor sections of General Mitre Railway, then managed by Ferrocarriles Argentinos. Those light cars replaced Ganz Works railcars that had been run on those lines since 1938.\n\nMaterfer also produced coaches that looked like Werkspoor's that were used for long-distance services to Bariloche (\"Los Arrayanes\"), Tucumán (\"Independencia\"), Posadas (\"Cataratas\"), Mendoza (\"El Libertador\") with international connections with Chile and the \"Expreso del Sur\".\n\nIn 1955, 30 Werkspoor locomotives made in The Netherlands were acquired for the Belgrano Norte line. As a result, FA sent the old Ganz Works vehicles to Córdoba to serve regional railways. Four years later, a fleet of 21 English Electric locomotives arrived to replace Whitcomb and Werkspoor machines. In 1964, 27 coaches built by Aerfer, a subsidiary of FIAT Ferroviaria, were added to the line. Four years later, the fleet size was increased with the addition of 20 coaches built by local company Materfer, which replaced the old ones made in Tafí Viejo. Therefore, the English Electric locomotives worked with the Aerfer and Werkspoor coaches from then on.\n\nIn 1962, the 7131, a railcar manufactured by FIAT Concord, made its debut in the Villa Ballester-Zárate and Victoria-Capilla del Señor sections of Mitre Railway. Those light cars replaced Ganz Works railcars that had been run on those lines since 1938.\n\nModernisation included the purchase of brand-new diesel locomotives by American company Whitcomb in 1951 (with the addition of 15 new ones by Werkspoor in 1955) for the Belgrano Sur line. In the late 1960s and early 1970s railcars by Hungarian company Ganz Works were sent to the Belgrano Sur. They had been acquired by the Argentine State Railway decades earlier and had been running in Northern Argentine railways since 1936. Some of them were used for local services to Libertad and the rest for the long-distance service to Carhué, departing from Buenos Aires station.\n\nAt the beginning of the 1960s, FA acquired brand new Hitachi electric multiple units, equipped with air conditioning for the metropolitan section of Mitre Railway.\n\nBy 1955 the reduction of the network was implemented through the so-called \"Larkin Plan\" (named because of American General Thomas B. Larkin who proposed for efficiency to reduce the Argentine redundant network to 29,000 km) several lines and branches were closed continuing during the presidency of Arturo Frondizi. As a result, by 1959 the operative railway network had decreased to 44,000 km. i.e. 4,000 km of tracks and at least 6 workshops were closed and 6,000 workers laid off. Tracks were lifted and lands and infrastructure sold. Some of the lines closed were the Belgrano Norte's Don Torcuato-Campo de Mayo branch and the B. Mitre-Delta (that would remain closed until 1995 when it was completely remodeled and re-opened as \"Tren de la Costa\").\n\nAlthough the Larkin Plan was not completely implemented due to a strike that lasted 42 days in 1961, a high number of lines and branches were closed such as the lines between Etcheverry and Mira Pampa and Carlos Beguerie to Azul and Olavarría, together with their respective branch lines, all of them part of Province of Buenos Aires Railway. About 200,000 workers gave their support to the strike on October 30, with several acts of riot along the country. The government committed workers to get back to work threatening them with being imprisoned. President Frondizi threatened that strikers could be judged by military courts.\n\nAfter the coup d'état that overthrew president Arturo Illia, General Juan Carlos De Marchi was named president of Ferrocarriles Argentinos. Marchi carried out a plan of modernisation and investments for the railway network that included to invest US$850 million within five years. During Marchi's administration the rolling stock was renewed, acquiring EMD GT22 and G22 diesel locomotives from the US and units by Materfer manufactured in Córdoba. The EMD locomotives have been running on several railway lines of Argentina until today, such as Belgrano Norte and Belgrano Sur metropolitan services, Roca and Mitre railways long-distance services among others. In 1968 De Marchi was elected secretary of the Latin America Railway Association. In the early 1970s, FA acquired 128 electric units to Japanese consortium Marubeni to be used in Urquiza Railway metropolitan services. The units ran for the first time in 1974, replacing old trams that had been used until then.\n\nNevertheless, some railways were closed during those years, such as Ferrocarril Económico Correntino (1969)\n\nBy 1976, 3,000 km had been suppressed from the Argentine network, with a total extension of 41,400 km. That same year the military dictatorship led by Jorge Videla overthrew president Isabel Perón beginning the National Reorganization Process. During those years, other 6,300 km would be closed, apart from suppressing a 50% of passenger services and firing 40% of railway workers (from 156,000 to 96,000 employees). 1,000 stations were closed over a total of 2,400. The railway network went from 41,400 km to 31,110 in 1980.\n\nSome of the railway lines during that period were Comodoro Rivadavia, Puerto Deseado and lines from Carlos Beguerie to Mira Pampa (1974) and Avellaneda to La Plata (1977) of Province of Buenos Aires railways.\n\nAfter the rationalisation, the total extension of each railway division was as follows:\n\nThe following democratic Raúl Alfonsín's administration keep the services active but the critical economic situation caused FA entered into recession. One of the achievements during Alfonsín's government was the electrification of Roca suburban branches from Constitución to Ezeiza and Glew. In addition, the entire fleet of trains was renewed, acquiring EMU by Japanese companies Nippon Sharyo, Kinki Sharyo, Tokyu Car, Kawasaki and Hitachi. The electrified rail system was opened to public in November, 1985. After being electrified, the number of passengers carried increased considerably.\n\nFollowing a prolonged period of hyperinflation in the 1980s, accompanied by a steep increase in fiscal deficit and a sharp fall in reserves, the Argentine government, under the presidency of Carlos Menem from 1989, initiated a series of neoliberal reforms which included the privatisation of public utility companies (telephones, gas, electricity and water) together with the entire railway network.\n\nThe plan was to break up the network into segments and to grant concessions to private companies for their operation through competitive bidding. Freight and passenger services were separated and, since most of the intercity passenger services were not commercially attractive to the private sector, the government offered these to the provinces. The remaining passenger services in the city of Buenos Aires, including the five lines of the Metro, were potentially more viable and were treated separately.\n\nBy Decree n° 520/91, in 1991 a new state-owned company, Ferrocarriles Metropolitanos S.A. (FEMESA) was create to operate metropolitan services in the city and suburbs of Buenos Aires Province until the privatisation process was carried out. Since then on, Ferrocarriles Argentinos only operated freight and passenger (long-distance only) services until they were granted in concession to private companies.\n\nProjects not only included Buenos Aires but cities of Córdoba, Rosario and Mendoza with the idea of establishing urban services that included rapid transit transport. In the case of Córdoba, the plan foresaw to unify the two stations in the city and to connect Ferreyra and Argüello districts. The project for Mendoza foresaw to build a new terminal near the El Plumerillo Airport. Nevertheless, the plans were never carried out.\n\nPrivatisation began with the granting of long-term concessions (30 years with an optional 10-year extension) to six companies for the operation of freight services. These companies were responsible for all operations and maintenance and for the implementation of the investment programme detailed in their bid. The fixed assets remained the property of the state and the operators had to pay for their use and to rent rolling stock. Freight tariffs were deregulated but were subject to state approval. The concessionaires were expected to hire as many FA employees as were required and redundancies were financed by the government with the help of the World Bank.\n\nInitially no bids were received for the Belgrano railway, and in October 1993 the government created a new state-owned corporation to continue its operation and to undertake improvements likely to make it a more attractive commercial proposition for a private buyer. Privatisation followed six years later when Belgrano Cargas took over the line.\n\nThe only rail line catalogued as \"profitable\" was the Constitución-Mar del Plata section.\n\nOn March 10, 1993, president Menem signed the decree for which all the long-distance passenger services were definitely closed. Some of the provinces that lost their connection with Buenos Aires were Salta, Jujuy, Entre Ríos, Corrientes, Misiones, Mendoza, San Juan, San Luis, Catamarca and La Rioja.\n\nThe closure caused many villages became isolated from the main cities of Argentina and younger inhabitants departed from their born towns looking for better opportunities. This happened in cities such as La Banda, Laguna Paiva, San Cristóbal, Navarro, Las Marianas among many others. While in 1960 trains had carried 539 million of passengers, thirty years after the number decreased to 264 million. Between 1991 and 1992 urban and inter-city services were cancelled due to lack of locomotives to run. In San Martín and Roca lines trains had only two coaches in poor conditions. In addition, railway unions made sudden strikes that left passengers abandoned midway. During the last year of state administration there were 239,000 services cancelled or delayed.\n\nAfter the closure the National government offered the provinces to reactivate railway lines at their own expense. Provinces that reached an agreement with the central government to operate their services were Buenos Aires (establishing its own company, Ferrobaires), Tucumán (with Tucumán Ferrocarriles running trains since 1997), Río Negro (Servicios Ferroviarios Patagónico, still operating), Córdoba, La Pampa (also with services by Ferrobaires) and Chubut. Likewise, the government also transferred some branches to the provinces, such as Viedma-Bariloche and Ingeniero Jacobbaci-Esquel to Río Negro and Chubut (so the railway crossed both provinces); Córdoba-Cruz del Eje to Córdoba Province. Salta received the Tren a las Nubes and Mendoza took over Transandine Railway. In all the cases, the procedures were ruled by Law n° 2.873.\n\nOn July 7, 1995, the company was declared into a state of liquidation by decree n° 2394/92, ceasing operations that same day.\n\nAfter FA disappeared, the railway infrastructure of Argentina was taken over by a new agency, \"Ente Nacional de Administración de Bienes Ferroviarios\" (in English: National Board of Railway Properties Management - ENABIEF), then renamed \"Organismo Nacional de Administración de Bienes del Estado\" (National Agency of State Properties Management - ONABE) until 2008 when the \"Administración de Infraestructuras Ferroviarias S.E.\" (Railway Infrastructure Management - ADIFSE) replaced ONABE as administrator. ADIFSE's headquarters set up in the former FA building in Avenida del Libertador and Av. Ramos Mejía in Retiro, Buenos Aires.\n\nIn 2008, the national government created Operadora Ferroviaria Sociedad del Estado (SOFSE) in order to manage some of its newly acquired railway assets. The state-owned company quickly began to grow, incorporating newly re-nationalised lines, purchasing new rolling stock and replacing long track segments. In 2015, with the state increasingly widening the scope of its railway reformation, it began re-using the old Ferrocarriles Argentinos marque and soon after presented a proposal to the Argentine National Congress whereby the brand would be revived, incorporating SOFSE and potentially other companies which have yet to be re-nationalised. This proposal was passed by overwhelming majority in April 2015 and made law by the Argentine Senate, effectively re-nationalising the country's railways, a move which saw support from all major political parties across the political spectrum.\n\n"}
{"id": "1997245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997245", "title": "Priory School, Lewes", "text": "Priory School, Lewes\n\nPriory School is a British co-educational secondary school for 11- to 16-year-olds located on Mountfield Road in the East Sussex town of Lewes. It received widespread public attention in 2019 over its policy of forcing girls to wear trousers.\n\nPriory School was originally formed in 1969 when the Lewes County Grammar School for Girls, the Lewes County Grammar School for Boys and the Lewes Secondary Modern School were amalgamated to form a comprehensive school called Priory School, its name referring to the nearby Lewes Priory. At this point, although the school was comprehensive for children who lived within the town of Lewes, it was also open to children from the surrounding towns and villages who had passed the 11 plus. During this period there was also academic streaming: the names of the streamed groups were based on the letters of the word MOUNTFIELD.\n\nIn its early years (from 1969 until around 1980) the school was in three separate locations: the former Girls' Grammar School buildings in Potter's Lane housed the Lower School (ages 12–13), while on Mountfield Road the Secondary Modern buildings housed the Middle School (ages 14–15), with the Upper School (ages 16–18) in the former Boys' Grammar.\nLater, in the early 1990s, Potter's Lane site was turned into a primary school now housing Southover and Western Road Schools; Priory School itself was split into Priory School (11–16) on the former Secondary Modern site and the Sixth Form (16-18), housed on the former Boys' Grammar School site, merged with Lewes Technical College, which had a site opposite in Mountfield Road, to become Lewes Tertiary College and now East Sussex College\n\nIn 2017 the uniform was changed to prohibit new joiners from wearing skirts, and was said by the headteacher to be \"gender-neutral\". Multiple news outlets and alumni, including Piers Morgan criticised the move, stating that the restrictions were more of a contradiction than a progression in uniforms.\n\nPriory School then became centred on the site of the former Secondary Modern School and new buildings have since been added. The adjacent buildings formerly used by the County Grammar School for Boys and by the Sixth Form have become part of the Lewes Campus of East Sussex College (Further Education). The Chapel, of the former Boys' Grammar School, was retained by the Priory School. This chapel was built after the Second World War to commemorate the boys from the school who fought in the war. Next to it is the Music Block, which was rebuilt in 2008 in place of the old temporary one. The new block features improved disabled access, but thin walls and a void beneath the floor make it a rather difficult environment for music lessons.\n\nIn 1993, the new revised version of Priory School opened boasting a new wing – the \"South Block\" – and a heavily refurbished main building. The latter was the home of Lewes Secondary Modern School until 1969, sporting a distinctive copper plated clock tower. The main building included new science labs, a library and design technology rooms, built in anticipation of design technology being in the National Curriculum. The South Block hosts, on the ground floor, the Art, Maths, Modern Foreign Languages and English classrooms and on the first floor the Humanities classrooms. The Performing Arts Block was built recently next to the Main Hall.\n\nThe nearby Leisure Centre is used for indoor sports and the nearby Convent Fields, the Cricket Nets and the Tennis Courts, for outdoor ones. Between the South Block and the Main Building is a playground called the Quad. The tarmac playground continues until the chapel but there are large muddy and grassy areas surrounding it.\n\nThe Head of History, Jim Butt and co-writer Colin Burgess wrote an entire musical about the life of local First World War soldier, Private Rupert Freeman, called \"In the Pink\".\n\nPriory has been awarded Arts and Language College statuses, specialising in these areas with increased funding. The three modern foreign languages taught are Spanish, French and German. There is also a Chinese club.\n\nA number of pupils have gone on to make careers in the arts.\nEric Goulden amd Pete Thomas made their names in the music business. Annabel Abbs and Lucy Atkins have had a number of books published.\n\nIn 1960 a chapel, designed by Sir Edward Maufe, was built to honour the boys from the Lewes County Grammar School for Boys who died in the Second World War. Their names are shown on the walls of the vestibule, with the Latin motto \"Dare Nec Computare\" above the door, translating as \"To give and not to count the cost\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1997249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997249", "title": "Department of Education and Early Childhood Development (New Brunswick)", "text": "Department of Education and Early Childhood Development (New Brunswick)\n\nThe Department of Education and Early Childhood Development is an executive agency of the Government of New Brunswick. It is responsible for the administration of the New Brunswick public education system. Its primary and secondary schools are divided into 7 districts in separate units; 4 anglophone districts and 3 francophone districts.\n\nOn May 14, 1998 it also took over responsibility for universities and community colleges however community colleges were later moved to the Department of Training and Employment Development on March 23, 2000. On February 14, 2006 it was returned to its pre-1998 configuration with responsibility for just primary and secondary schools when universities were moved to the new Department of Post-secondary Education and Training.\n\nIn October 2010, it took responsibility for early childhood education from the Department of Social Development and its name changed from the Department of Education to the Department of Education and Early Childhood Development.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1997252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997252", "title": "New York Bight", "text": "New York Bight\n\nThe New York-New Jersey Bight is a roughly triangular indentation along the Atlantic coast of the United States, extending northeasterly from Cape May Inlet in New Jersey to Montauk Point on the eastern tip of Long Island. The coastal climate of the bight is temperate as the result of direct contact from the Gulf Stream along the coast of North America. It is also notable for TWA Flight 800, which exploded in-mid air and crashed into the bight on July 17, 1996, killing all 230 people on board.\n\nThe bight results from the fact that the Atlantic coast of New Jersey, running approximately north-south, and the southern coast of Long Island, running approximately east-west, form roughly a right angle with the point at the mouth of the Hudson. The New York Bight Apex is the area including and between the Hudson River estuary and the Raritan River estuary extending 6–7 km of the coast and includes Raritan Bay and Lower New York Bay.\n\nThe geography of the bight has long been of major concern to meteorologists in the study of tropical storm patterns along the east coast, and is one of the primary reasons the New York Metropolitan Area is considered a high danger zone for storm generated ocean-water surges, despite its northerly latitude. Specifically, in the presence of a hurricane off the coast of New Jersey, the easterly cyclonic winds along the northern edge of the storm could drive a strong surge to the west, laterally along the southern coast of Long Island and straight into Lower New York Bay. The angle bend of the New Jersey coast would leave little outlet for the surge, leading to widespread flooding throughout New York City, especially along the southern coast of Staten Island and Manhattan.\n\nExamples of this phenomenon are the hurricane of 1893, in which storm surges of up to were reported, and Hurricane Sandy in 2012.\n\nThe sea floor of the New York Bight consists largely of continental shelf and includes the Hudson Canyon, an undersea Pleistocene submarine canyon, which was formed by the Hudson River during the ice ages, when the sea level was lower. The bight includes major shipping channels that access New York Harbor.\n\nThe Bureau of Ocean Energy Management is a federal agency responsible for determining offshore areas where wind farms may be built on the Outer Continental Shelf. It sells leases to qualified bidders. The waters in New Jersey and New York have been leased to private concerns for the development of offshore wind farms.\n\n"}
{"id": "1997253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997253", "title": "Tru Blu Entertainment", "text": "Tru Blu Entertainment\n\nTru Blu Entertainment Pty. Ltd. is an Australian publisher that is a subsidiary of Home Entertainment Suppliers, who distribute their titles. It was founded in 1999.\n\n"}
{"id": "1997260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997260", "title": "WPRB", "text": "WPRB\n\nWPRB (103.3 FM) is a commercial FM radio station licensed to serve Princeton, New Jersey. The station is owned by Princeton Broadcasting Service, Inc., and broadcasts a free-form format, including classical, jazz, electronic, folk, metal, world, soul, blues, rock and opera. Its broadcast tower is shared with WKXW \"New Jersey 101.5\" and is located in Lawrence Township northeast of Trenton at (). While the station is non-profit, it is licensed as a commercial radio station.\n\nAlmost all of the on-air and management staff consists of Princeton University alumni and students. Approximately two-thirds of the live programing is done by people in studio and the other one-third or so is a prerecorded automation DJ. WPRB uses HD Radio, and broadcasts Indian-formatted \"8K Radio\" on its HD2 subchannel.\n\nThe station was founded as WPRU in 1940 by H. Grant Theis, a Princeton University student at the time. It often is cited as the oldest commercially licensed campus radio station in the United States. In 1955, WPRU got its FM license. It signed on as WPRB, the first college station on the FM dial in the United States. It is considered a pioneer in FM Stereo broadcasting, transmitting a stereo signal beginning in 1964.\n\nWPRB has broadcast on three different FM frequencies in its history: it first was heard on 103.9 MHz; in 1959, it moved to 103.5 MHz; and it moved to its current frequency of 103.3 MHz in 1962. During the 1960s and 70s, it joined with other Ivy League universities to form the \"Ivy Network,\" sharing some programming and resources. It later was an affiliate of the ABC FM Network.\n\nIn 1986, Spin Magazine named WPRB the best commercial college station in the country.\n\nAfter decades of operation under an advertising-supported business model, in 2006 WPRB switched to a listener-supported model (although it remains a commercially licensed station). In 2009, WPRB went on to acquire a Princeton student magazine, the \"Nassau Weekly\". \"Nassau Weekly\" was founded in 1979 by Princeton students including David Remnick, who later became the editor of \"The New Yorker\".\n\nWPRB is a full class B signal. Its service contour covers all of Central New Jersey and portions of the Philadelphia and New York City radio markets.\n\nWPRB is short-spaced to two other class B stations: WKTU \"103.5 KTU\" (licensed to serve Lake Success, New York) and WARM-FM \"Warm 103.3\" (licensed to serve York, Pennsylvania). WPRB and WKTU operate on adjacent channels and the cities they are licensed to serve are only 45 miles apart. The minimum distance between two Class B stations operating on adjacent channels according to current FCC rules is 105 miles. WPRB and WARM-FM operate on the same channel and the cities they are licensed to serve are only 112 miles apart. The minimum distance between two Class B stations operating on the same channel according to current FCC rules is 150 miles, but because WPRB dates back to the early days of FM broadcasting (before many rules had been established) it is grandfathered on its current frequency and power level.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1997263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997263", "title": "Disaster recovery and business continuity auditing", "text": "Disaster recovery and business continuity auditing\n\nGiven organizations' increasing dependency on information technology to run their operations, Business continuity planning covers the entire organization, and Disaster recovery focuses on \"IT\".\n\nAuditing of documents covering an organization's \"business continuity\" and \"disaster recovery\" plans provides a third-party validation to stakeholders that the documentation is complete and does not contain material misrepresentations.\n\nLack of completeness can result in overlooking secondary effects, such as when vastly increased work-at-home overloads incoming recovery site telecommunications capacity, and the bi-weekly payroll that was not critical within the first 48 hours is now causing perceived problems in ever recovering, complicated by governmental and possibly union reaction.\n\nOften used together, the terms Business Continuity and Disaster Recovery are very different. Business Continuity refers to the ability of a business to continue critical functions and business processes after the occurrence of a disaster, whereas Disaster Recovery refers specifically to the Information Technology (IT) and data-centric functions of the business, and is a subset of Business \nContinuity.\n\nThe primary objective is to protect the organization in the event that all or part of its operations and/or computer services are rendered partially or completely unusable. \n\nMinimizing downtime and data loss during disaster recovery is measured in terms of two concepts: \n\nAn auditor examines and assess \n\nTo maximize their effectiveness, disaster recovery plans are most effective when updated frequently, and\nshould:\n\nAdequate records need to be retained by the organization. The auditor examines records, billings, and contracts to verify that records are being kept. One such record is a current list of the organization's hardware and software vendors. Such list is made and periodically updated to reflect changing business practice. Copies of it are stored on and off site and are made available or accessible to those who require them. An auditor tests the procedures used to meet this objective and determine their effectiveness.\n\nA disaster recovery plan (DRP) is a documented process or set of procedures to \nexecute an organization's disaster recovery processes and recover and protect a business IT infrastructure in the event of a disaster. It is \"a comprehensive statement of consistent actions to be taken before, during and after a disaster\". The disaster could be natural, environmental or man-made. Man-made disasters could be intentional (for example, an act of a terrorist) or unintentional (that is, accidental, such as the breakage of a man-made dam).\n\nAlthough there is no one-size-fits-all plan, there are three basic strategies: \n\nThe latter may include securing proper insurance policies, and holding a \"lessons learned\" brainstorming session.\n\nThe Business Continuity Plan (BCP) is a comprehensive organizational plan that includes the disaster recovery plan, and it consists of five component plans:\n\nThe first three (Business Resumption, Occupant Emergency, and Continuity of Operations Plans) do not deal with the IT infrastructure. The Incident Management Plan (IMP) does deal with the IT infrastructure, but since it establishes structure and procedures to address cyber attacks against an organization’s IT systems, it generally does not represent an agent for activating the Disaster Recovery Plan, leaving The Disaster Recovery Plan as the only BCP component of interest to IT.\n\nLike every insurance plan, there are benefits that can be obtained from proper planning, including:\n\nAccording to Geoffrey H. Wold of the Disaster Recovery Journal, the entire process involved in developing a Disaster Recovery Plan consists of 10 steps:\n\nInitial testing can be plan is done in sections and after normal business hours to minimize disruptions.\nSubsequent tests occur during normal business hours.\n\nTypes of tests include: checklist tests, simulation tests, parallel tests, and full interruption tests.\n\nDue to high cost, various plans are not without critics. Dell has identified five \"common mistakes\" organizations often make related to BCP/DR planning:\n\n\nThe auditor determines the adequacy of the company's insurance coverage (particularly property and casualty insurance) through a review of the company's insurance policies and other research. Among the items that the auditor needs to verify are: the scope of the policy (including any stated exclusions), that the amount of coverage is sufficient to cover the organization’s needs, and that the policy is current and in force. The auditor also ascertains, through a review of the ratings assigned by independent rating agencies, that the insurance company or companies providing the coverage have the financial viability to cover the losses in the event of a disaster.\n\nEffective DR plans take into account the extent of a company's responsibilities to other entities and its ability to fulfill those commitments despite a major disaster. A good DR audit will include a review of existing MOA and contracts to ensure that the organization's legal liability for lack of performance in the event of disaster or any other unusual circumstance is minimized. Agreements pertaining to establishing support and assisting with recovery for the entity are also outlined. Techniques used for evaluating this area include an examination of the reasonableness of the plan, a determination of whether or not the plan takes all factors into account, and a verification of the contracts and agreements reasonableness through documentation and outside research.\n\nThe auditor must verify that planning ensures that both management and the recovery team have effective communication hardware, contact information for both internal communication and external issues, such as business partners and key customers. \n\nAudit techniques include \n\nProcedures to sustain staff during a round-the clock disaster recovery effort are included in any good disaster recovery plan. Procedures for the stocking of food and water, capabilities of administering CPR/first aid, and dealing with family emergencies are clearly written and tested. This can generally be accomplished by the company through good training programs and a clear definition of job responsibilities. A review of the readiness capacity of a plan often includes tasks such as inquires of personnel, direct physical observation, and examination of training records and any certifications.\n\nThe auditor must review procedures that take into account the possibility of power failures or other situations that are of a non-IT nature. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1997269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997269", "title": "Provincial police", "text": "Provincial police\n\nIn Italy, the polizia provinciale are the provincial-level police forces. Each Italian province can by statute have its own police force. \"Polizia provinciale\" are small police organisations whose main duties are to enforce regional and national hunting and fishing laws but have also expanded into environmental protection. They provide traffic police service and participate in the security services arranged by the authorities. The forces' vehicles are usually white with a green or blue stripe along the side. \"Polizia provinciale\" must be distinguished from \"questura\", the office of the head of the state's police (\"polizia di stato\") in a province, called \"questore\" (quaestor).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1997270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997270", "title": "Thomas Creevey", "text": "Thomas Creevey\n\nThomas Creevey (March 1768 – 5 February 1838) was an English politician who is known for his papers, which were published in 1903.\n\nCreevey was the son of William Creevey, a Liverpool merchant, and was born in that city.\nHe went to Queens' College, Cambridge, and graduated as seventh Wrangler in 1789. The same year he became a student at the Inner Temple, and was called to the bar in 1794. In 1802 he entered Parliament through the Duke of Norfolk's nomination as member for Thetford, and married a widow with six children, Mrs Ord, who had a life interest in a comfortable income.\n\nCreevey was a Whig and a follower of Charles James Fox, and his active intellect and social qualities procured him a considerable intimacy with the leaders of this political circle. In 1806, when the brief \"All the Talents\" ministry was formed, he was given the office of secretary to the Board of Control; in 1830, when next his party came into power, Creevey, who had lost his seat in parliament, was appointed by Lord Grey Treasurer of the Ordnance; and subsequently Lord Melbourne made him treasurer of Greenwich Hospital. Creevey is also known for being the first civilian to interview the Duke of Wellington after the Battle of Waterloo in June 1815. He and his wife, who was ill at the time, were vacationing in Brussels when Napoleon was defeated by British and Prussian forces near the Belgian border. At their meeting in Wellington's headquarters, Creevey recorded the Duke's famous quote about the battle (\"It was a near run thing. The nearest run thing you ever saw in your life.\")\n\nAfter 1818, when his wife died, he had very slender means of his own, but he was popular with his friends and was well looked after by them; his close association with Lord Sefton, led to speculation that they were biological half-brothers—a rumour which Creevey himself appeared to abet. Charles Cavendish Fulke Greville, writing of him in 1829, remarks that \"old Creevey is a living proof that a man may be perfectly happy and exceedingly poor. I think he is the only man I know in society who possesses nothing.\"\n\nHe is remembered through the \"Creevey Papers\", published in 1903 under the editorship of Sir Herbert Maxwell, which, consisting partly of Creevey's own journals and partly of correspondence, give a lively and valuable picture of the political and social life of the late Georgian era, and are characterized by an almost Pepysian outspokenness. They are a useful addition and correction to the \"Croker Papers\", written from a Tory point of view.\n\nFor thirty-six years Creevey had kept a \"copious diary\", and had preserved a vast miscellaneous correspondence with such people as Lord Brougham, and his stepdaughter, Elizabeth Ord, had assisted him, by keeping his letters to her, in compiling material avowedly for a collection of \"Creevey Papers\" in the future.\n\nAt his death it was found that he had left his mistress, with whom he had lived for four years, his sole executrix and legatee, and Greville notes in his \"Memoirs\" the anxiety of Brougham and others to get the papers into their hands and suppress them. The diary, mentioned above, did not survive, perhaps through Brougham's success, and the papers from which Sir Herbert Maxwell made his selection came into his hands from Mrs Blackett Ord, whose husband was the grandson of Creevey's eldest stepdaughter.\n\n"}
{"id": "1997279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997279", "title": "USS Converse (DD-509)", "text": "USS Converse (DD-509)\n\nUSS \"Converse\" (DD-509), a , was the second ship of the United States Navy to be named for George A. Converse (1844–1909).\n\n\"Converse\" was launched 30 August 1942 by Bath Iron Works Corp., Bath, Maine; sponsored by Miss A. V. Jackson; and commissioned 20 November 1942, Commander D. C. E. Hamberger in command.\n\nAfter training at Guantanamo Bay and Pearl Harbor, \"Converse\" arrived at Nouméa 17 May 1943, and through the summer covered convoys carrying men and supplies to New Georgia, then escorted ships moving between Espiritu Santo and Guadalcanal. Arriving at Port Purvis in the Solomon Islands 16 September 1943, she joined Destroyer Squadron 23 (DesRon 23), with whom she was to win a Presidential Unit Citation (US) for operations in the northern Solomons between 31 October 1943 and 4 February 1944.\n\nOn the first of those dates, \"Converse\" sortied with her squadron and cruisers to provide cover for amphibious landings on Bougainville, and on the night of 31 October – 1 November 1943, bombarded Buka and Bonis airfields and targets in the Shortlands. The next night her force intercepted a Japanese group of cruisers and destroyers heading for an attack on the transports lying at Bougainville, and opened fire in the Battle of Empress Augusta Bay. The Japanese lost one cruiser and one destroyer in this action, and were turned back from their intended attack on the transports, although the American defenders came under severe attack by aircraft from Rabaul supporting the Japanese ships.\n\n\"Converse\" continued bombardments and escort duty supporting the Bougainville operation, and on the night of 16–17 November 1943 joined in firing on a surfaced submarine, scoring several hits. On the night of 24–25 November, the squadron intercepted five Japanese destroyers attempting to evacuate critically needed aviation troops from Buka to Rabaul. In a skillfully-executed torpedo attack followed by a persistent chase, during which \"Converse\" was struck by a torpedo which failed to explode, the squadron sank three of the enemy ships and caused heavy damage to a fourth, while emerging unscathed themselves.\n\nWhile escorting a group of ships carrying reinforcements and supplies to Bougainville 3 December 1943, \"Converse\" came under heavy attack from six waves of Japanese bombers. A near miss caused an electrical failure, putting her radar out of commission and resulting in a loss of power forward. Repairs were quickly made, and the Japanese force fought off, but \"Converse\" sailed from Port Purvis 14 December for complete repairs at Sydney, Australia. She rejoined her squadron at Port Purvis 30 January 1944 for bombardments and hunting forays against Japanese shipping through February and March in the northern Solomons.\n\n\"Converse\" cleared Port Purvis 27 March 1944 to join the Fast Carrier Task Force (then-TF 58) for screening duty during the air strikes on the Palaus from 30 March to 1 April, and with that force covered the Hollandia landings through preinvasion air attacks and bombardment, continuing their fire during the landings 22 April. Carrier attacks on Truk, Satawan, and Ponape at the close of the month found \"Converse\" continuing her screening duties.\n\nAttacks preparatory to, and covering, the invasion of Saipan began 12 June as targets throughout the Marianas were hit. While the landings themselves were made on 15 June, \"Converse\"'s task force hit at Japanese bases in the Bonins, then returned to the Marianas to continue their close support. When the Japanese fleet challenged the American operations in the Marianas on 19 June, \"Converse\" continued her screening through the resulting aerial Battle of the Philippine Sea, a 2 day engagement which resulted in the sinking of three Japanese carriers and the loss to Japan of many aircraft and their irreplaceable pilots. After joining in shore bombardment of Guam and Rota at the, close of June, \"Converse\" replenished at Eniwetok, and on 4 August, sailed for overhaul at Mare Island Naval Shipyard.\n\nThe destroyer returned to action 3 November 1944 when she joined the screen of carriers covering the convoy routes to newly invaded Leyte. On 21 December, while escorting the first resupply echelon to Mindoro, \"Converse\" came under attack by desperate Japanese suicide planes, and fired to drive them away as well as rescuing 266 survivors of \"LST-749\". She gave fire support to the landings in Lingayen Gulf on 9 and 10 January 1945, and then joined the task unit assigned to recapture Corregidor. Her guns destroyed gun emplacements, barges, suicide boats, and entombed about 100 enemy troops by sealing the entrance to Malinta Tunnel.\n\nAfter brief overhaul in Subic Bay, \"Converse\" patrolled off Corregidor until mid-March 1945, and from 18 March to 1 April joined in the invasion of Panay and Negros. Through the next month she carried out a variety of duties in the development of Iloilo as a staging center for the planned invasion of Japan. On 16 May, \"Converse\" arrived off Okinawa, where she operated on dangerous and demanding radar picket duty until the close of the war. Often firing to drive off suicide-bent Japanese aircraft, she received no damage during the difficult months that followed.\n\nOn 10 September she sailed from Okinawa for Pearl Harbor, the Panama Canal, and Washington, D.C., where on 19 October, the ceremonial award of the Presidential Unit Citation was made to her squadron. After overhaul at Brooklyn, she was decommissioned and placed in reserve at Charleston, South Carolina, 23 April 1946.\n\nIn addition to the Presidential Unit Citation, \"Converse\" received 11 battle stars for World War II service.\n\nOn 1 July 1959 \"Converse\" was transferred under the Mutual Assistance Program to Spain, where she was renamed \"Almirante Valdés\" (D23).\n\nThe ship was stricken 17 November 1986 and scrapped in 1988.\n\n"}
{"id": "1997281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997281", "title": "Tanda", "text": "Tanda\n\nTanda may refer to:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1997290", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997290", "title": "Department of Energy and Mines (New Brunswick)", "text": "Department of Energy and Mines (New Brunswick)\n\nThe Department of Energy and Mines is a part of the Government of New Brunswick. It is charged with the administration of New Brunswick's energy policy including electricity, natural gas and refined petroleum products; as well as the regulation of the development and exploration of minerals from New Brunswick's land.\n\nThe department was established as the Department of Energy on June 27, 2003 when it was separated from the former Department of Natural Resources and Energy. In October 2012, it added further responsibilities from Natural Resources governing mines and minerals and its name was changed accordingly.\n\nIn a 2016 cabinet shuffle, the Department of Natural Resources and Department of Energy and Mines rejoined to form the new Department of Energy and Resource Development.\n\n"}
{"id": "1997293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997293", "title": "Gnaeus Hosidius Geta", "text": "Gnaeus Hosidius Geta\n\nGeta defeated Sabalus, a chief of the Mauri, twice, and after gathering as much water as could be carried, pursued him into the desert. Sabalus' forces were more used to the conditions and the legion's water began to run out. A native friendly to the Romans persuaded Geta to perform a rain ritual used by his people and rain began to fall. The Romans' thirst was relieved and the Mauri, seeing the heavens come to their enemies' aid, surrendered.\n\nGeta and his legion were part of the Roman conquest of Britain, led by Aulus Plautius, the following year. Geta was almost captured in the Battle of the Medway in the early part of the campaign, but recovered and turned the battle so decisively that he received the \"ornamenta triumphalia\", which was unusual as he had not yet been a Consul. He was a Legatus in Britannia circa 45. An inscription found in Rome reveals that he became Suffect Consul in 49.\n\nGeta married, but the name of his wife is unknown. He had a daughter called Hosidia, born ca 65. Hosidia married Marcus Vitorius Marcellus, a man of consular rank and a friend of the poet Statius. Hosidia and Marcellus had a son called Gaius Vitorius Hosidius Geta.\n\n"}
{"id": "1997296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997296", "title": "Hans Niessl", "text": "Hans Niessl\n\nHans Niessl (in official documents, his surname is spelt Nießl, born 12 June 1951 in Zurndorf) is an Austrian politician, member of the Social Democratic Party of Austria and former Governor of Burgenland.\n\nFrom 1987 till 2000, Niessl was mayor of Frauenkirchen, he has been a member of the parliament of Burgenland since 1996.\n"}
{"id": "1997308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997308", "title": "Power Macintosh 7500", "text": "Power Macintosh 7500\n\nThe Power Macintosh 7500 is a personal computer designed, manufactured and sold by Apple Computer, Inc. from August 1995 to May 1996. \nThe 7500 was introduced alongside the Power Macintosh 7200 and 8500 at the 1995 MacWorld Expo in Boston. Apple referred to these machines collectively as the \"Power Surge\" line, communicating that these machines offered a significant speed improvement over its predecessors. The 7500 introduced a new case design, later dubbed \"Outrigger\" by Mac enthusiasts.\nThere were two derivative models: the Power Macintosh 7600, identical to the 7500 except for the CPU which was a PowerPC 604 or 604e processor instead of the 7500's 601; and the Power Macintosh 7300, identical to the 7600 but without the video inputs found in both the 7500 and 7600.\n\nThe 7500 is one of the first PCI-capable Macs manufactured by Apple; NuBus expansion cards are not supported. It has a PowerPC 601 processor rated at 100 MHz that is replaceable via a daughtercard. It also includes full composite video and s-video input capability, but no output, as the 7500 was designed to be a video conferencing system, not a multimedia editing machine—this was the 8500's task. \n\nThe main bus runs at 45MHz or 50MHz (set by the CPU daughtercard), and the CPU at integer or half-integer multiples of this speed. The bus can be temperamental with sensitivity to different kinds of RAM or of L2 cache, which could cause problems with aftermarket CPU cards trying to increase the clock speed.\n\nIn addition to the standard matrix of configurations available from Apple, various third-party resellers offered a wide variety of configurations.\n\n"}
{"id": "1997309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997309", "title": "Ulrich Wille", "text": "Ulrich Wille\n\nConrad Ulrich Sigmund Wille (5 April 1848 – 31 January 1925) was the General of the Swiss Army during the First World War. Inspired by the Prussian techniques that he had been able to observe at the time of his studies in Berlin, he tried to impress the Swiss Army with a spirit based on instruction, discipline and technical control.\n\nAt the dawn of the First World War, Switzerland confirmed its will to remain neutral and to avoid the conflicts which were going to set Europe ablaze.\nHowever, Switzerland was divided between the German-speaking Swiss who favored the Central Powers, and the French and Italian-speaking Swiss whose opinions tended to support the Allied Powers.\n\nAs a Germanophile, close to Kaiser Wilhelm II, Wille benefitted from the pro-German current and the disparity within the Swiss Federal Council, which counted only one member from the French areas.\n\nIn 1914, at the outbreak of warfare, a general mobilization of all military forces was issued. Wille, then a Colonel, was named General of Switzerland by the Federal Parliament on 8 August 1914 with 122 votes, against 63 votes for the other candidate, Theophil Sprecher von Bernegg. Von Bernegg would soon assume the rank of Chief of the General Staff and become a reliable partner of Wille's.\nThe opponents of the general described him as \"militarist\" whereas his partisans saw in him a chief ready to manage an army in mobilization thanks to his pedagogical talents. Wille decided to concentrate the bulk of his forces (238,000 men and 50,000 horses) close to the borders, particularly in Ajoie and Engadine.\n\nThe mandate of Wille was rife with political problems. Wille caused a scandal in French-speaking Switzerland by proposing to the Federal Council on 20 July 1915, to enter the war on the side of the Central Powers. Thereafter, the \"Colonels' Affair\" in 1916 also had a great repercussion. Two Swiss colonels had given German and Austro-Hungarian diplomats specimens of the \"Staff Gazette\", a confidential journal, and Russian messages deciphered by Swiss cryptanalysts. The affair risked Swiss neutrality since it implied collusion with one of the belligerents. Wille decided to condemn the two colonels to 20 days' detention, an unsatisfactory sentence in the eyes of the pro-Allied party.\n\nThe confrontation between French-speaking Switzerland and German-speaking Switzerland widened. The Germanic newspapers supported the German actions in Belgium, whereas the French ones highlighted the resistance of the Allied troops.\n\nThe economic situation was poor and many strikes occurred, reaching their apogee with the Swiss general strike from 11 November to 14 November 1918. In a note dated 10 November 1918, Wille announced his concern for the rise of Bolshevism and the internal disorders to come in the country:\n\nBut he added that it was necessary to avoid violence:\n\nMeanwhile, Wille had to manage the pandemic of the Spanish influenza, which affected the troops and the recruit schools. In order to combat the spread of the epidemic, enlistment of new recruits was delayed.\n\nUlrich Wille's family was from La Sagne in the Canton of Neuchâtel. One of his ancestors settled in Hamburg and renamed the family name, \"Vuille\", to the more German \"Wille\". Ulrich's parents were journalist and politician François Wille (1811–1896) and novelist Eliza Wille-Sloman (1809–1893). They were liberals and, due to their disillusion by the failed German revolutions of 1848–49, they left Hamburg for Switzerland with their newborn son Ulrich. They settled in Meilen in the Canton of Zürich, where Ulrich grew up in \"Mariafeld\", the family estate.\n\nWille was married to Countess Constanza Maria Amalia Clara von Bismarck (1851–1946), the daughter of Count Friedrich Wilhelm von Bismarck, a distant relative of Chancellor Otto von Bismarck, with whom he had two daughters and three sons.\n\nHis eldest son, also named Ulrich Wille, followed his father's footsteps in the military, ultimately becoming a Corps Commander. Wille Jr. also managed to keep his father's pro-German tendencies throughout his career, including during the Second World War. This would contribute to his tensions with the next Swiss General, Henri Guisan.\n\nHis daughter Renée Schwarzenbach-Wille, who was married to silk tycoon Alfred Schwarzenbach, was an Olympic horsewoman and prolific photographer. His granddaughter was the renowned author, traveler, and photographer Annemarie Schwarzenbach.\n"}
{"id": "1997312", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997312", "title": "Battle of Gabiene", "text": "Battle of Gabiene\n\nBattle of Gabiene was the second great battle (the third battle in total; see: the battles of Orkynia and Paraitakene) between Antigonus Monophthalmus and Eumenes, two of Alexander the Great's successors (the so-called Diadochi). The battle was fought near Gabiene in Persia in 315 BC and ended the Second War of the Diadochi. It established Antigonus as the most powerful of the successors.\n\nSince the sole reference of this battle is ultimately from Eumenes' personal aide Hieronymus of Cardia (later transmitted through the historian Diodorus), who later switched his allegiance to Antigonus, he provides a unique perspective from both sides' point of view.\n\nAfter the death of Alexander the Great in 323 BC, his generals immediately began squabbling over his empire. Soon it degenerated into open warfare, with each general attempting to claim a portion of Alexander's vast kingdom. One of the most talented generals among the Diadochi was Antigonus Monophthalmus (\"Antigonus the One-eyed\"), so called because of an eye he lost in a siege. During the early years of warfare between the Successors, he faced Eumenes, a capable general who had already crushed Craterus. The two Diadochi fought a series of actions across Asia Minor, and Persia and Media before finally meeting in what was to be the last clash at Gabiene ().\n\nAntigonus had been a general for Philip II, king of Macedon, and later for Alexander. Skilled and experienced in war, he had proved himself in many battles. Eumenes was not of Macedonian origin, unlike the rest of Diadochi. He had first been Philip's then Alexander's secretary, but Alexander seemed to have recognized a military talent in Eumenes, and gave him several senior commands in the campaign in India. After Alexander's death, Eumenes quickly showed his skill, allying himself with Perdiccas and winning over much of Anatolia.\n\nIn 319 BC, Antigonus marched his army into Cappadocia (Eumenes's satrapy) and in a lightning campaign (see: battle of Orkynia) drove Eumenes to Nora, a strong fortress on the border between Cappadocia and Lycaonia. Here Eumenes held out for more than a year until the death of Antipater threw his opponents into disarray, he escape from Nora through trickery, allied himself with Polyperchon (the new Regent of the Empire) and, after gathering a small army, he marched into Cilicia where he made an alliance with Antigenes and Teutamos, the commanders of the Macedonian Silver Shields and the Hypaspists. Eventually Eumenes secured control over these men by playing on their loyalty to, and superstitious awe of, Alexander. He used the royal treasury at Kyinda to recruit an army of mercenaries to add to his own troops and the Macedonians of Antigenes and Teutamos. In 317 BC, Eumenes left Cilicia and marched into Syria and Phoenicia, and began to raise a naval force on behave of Polyperchon. When it was ready he sent the fleet west to reinforce Polyperchon, but of the coast of Cilicia it was met by Antigonus's fleet and changed sides. Meanwhile, Antigonus had settled his affairs in Asia Minor and marched east to take out Eumenes before he could do further damage. Eumenes somehow had advance knowledge of this and marched out of Phoenica, through Syria into Mesopotamia, with the idea of gathering support in the upper satrapies. When Antigonus arrived in Syria, he found out Eumenes had left his base in Phoenica and had marched into the east. They marched and counter-marched through Mesopotamia, Babylonia, Susiana and Media until the two armies finally met in southern Media and fought the indecisive battle of Paraitakene. Antigonus, whose casualties were more numerous, force marched his army to safety the next night.\n\nDuring the winter of 316-315 BC, Antigonus tried to surprise Eumenes in Persia by marching his army across a desert to try and catch his enemy off guard. Unfortunately he was observed by some locals who reported it to his opponents. Eumenes then tricked Antigonus in believing he had his entire army with him. He gathered together a body of troops and, marking out on the hills a large camp, he had each soldier tend a campfire during the night giving the impression that a large army encamped there. Antigonus gave up his plan and awaited the rest of his army. A few days later, the armies drew together and encamped opposite of each other about five miles apart. They were on a broad plain, entirely uncultivated because of the loose and salty soil.\n\nAntigonus, having a superiority in cavalry, resolved to mass his heavy cavalry and most of his elephants and light infantry on his right and strike against Eumenes's left flank, while refusing his center (infantry) and left (light horse). Antigonus and his son Demetrius commanded the heavy cavalry themselves. Eumenes, having seen Antigonus' deployment, placed himself and his best cavalry opposite Antigonus' heavy cavalry along with his own elephants and light infantry. He intended to hold Antigonus's charge while using his elite Argyraspides (the Silver Shields) phalanx to win in the center. The Argyraspides were a unit of veterans who had fought under Philip and then Alexander. Despite the fact that these battle-hardened veterans were old enough to be their opponents' grandfathers, they were still highly respected and thought to be invincible in combat.\nBefore the battle opened, Antigenes, the leader of the Argyraspides, sent a horseman over to Antigonus' phalanx heckling them, \"\"Wicked men, are you sinning against your fathers, who conquered the whole world under Philip and Alexander?\"\". The morale of Antigonus' phalangites sank and the phalanx of Eumenes raised a great cheer in response. Eumenes saw an opportunity and began advancing.\n\nThe skirmishers and elephants were the first to engage. At once a great cloud of dust was raised from the loose soil, obscuring most of the action. Antigonus observed this and decided to take advantage of it. He selected a body of Median and Tarentine light cavalry and ordered them to ride around Eumenes's left flank and attack his camp; they were to seize his baggage train and carry it back to Antigonus's camp. Because of the dust, this action went entirely unnoticed by Eumenes's army. Finding the enemy camp inadequately guarded, Antigonus's men captured and carried off most of their opponents baggage train, containing the wives, children, servants, and accumulated savings of the army.\n\nOn the right flank, using the thick dust to cover his movements, Antigonus and Demetrius rode with their heavy cavalry around the engaged skirmishers and elephants to unexpectedly hit Eumenes's horse on their flank. Taken by surprise a great part of Eumenes's heavy cavalry under Peucestas routed. Despite Eumenes's heroic efforts to drive off the Antigonids, he was seriously outnumbered and was driven back. Antigonus and Demetrius used their cavalry to form a screen between Eumenes and the rest of his army. The battle of the elephants and skirmishers was decided when Eumenes' lead elephant was killed and the rest became so unnerved they fled. Antigonus had clearly won the battle on the right flank.\n\nMeanwhile, in the center the two phalanxes had engaged. Spearheaded by the nigh invincible Silver Shields, Eumenes's phalanx had won a clear victory. Eumenes now ordered Peucestas to go back into combat with his cavalry and exploit the advantage, but the latter refused, retreating even further instead. Antigonus ordered Pheiton (in command of the right flank) to attack Eumenes's phalanx in the rear. This forced Eumenes's heavy infantry to break off their victorious pursuit, but being battle-hardened veterans, they kept their head, formed a square and marched safely off the battlefield.\n\nAlthough Antigonus was victorious, winning on both flanks and getting the enemy center to retreat off the battlefield, the battle's result was, like Paraitacene, inconclusive, with Eumenes still possessing a strong force. That evening, Eumenes attempted to convince the army to fight Antigonus again the next day. His army was reluctant, as they had just found out their camp had been plundered, the satraps wanted to retire to protect their satrapies. It was the Silver Shields who took matters into their own hands. Learning that Antigonus had their wives, children, servants and booty, they secretly opened negotiations with Antigonus. A deal was struck whereby Antigonus would return their baggage and families in return for Eumenes and a promise of future allegiance. The Silver Shields promptly arrested Eumenes and his senior officers and handed them over to Antigonus.\n\nEumenes was put under heavy guard while Antigonus held a council to decide his fate. Demetrius and Nearchos urged Antigonus to spare Eumenes's life, but most of the council members insisted he execute Eumenes. So it was decided, then, and Eumenes met his end, his body being turned over to his friends for burial. Eudemus, who had come from India as an ally of Eumenes and was responsible for the recruitment of Eumenes' elephants and light infantry was also executed, as was the leader of the Argyraspides, Antigenes.\n\nThe Macedonians of Eumenes's army were drawn into the ranks of Antigonus's army. Given the fickle loyalty of the Silver Shields (betraying Eumenes and Antigenes), Antigonus decided to send the 1,000 unruliest of them to the far off satrapy of Arachosia to fight in the frontier war with the Indians, the local satrap Sibyrtius was given special orders to regard them as expendable.\n\nAlfred Duggan's novel on the life of Demetrius, \"Elephants and Castles\", also covers the battle.\n\nThe third novel in Christian Cameron's \"Tyrant\" series, \"Funeral Games\" features the Battle of Gabiene.\n\n"}
{"id": "1997315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997315", "title": "Theresa Saldana", "text": "Theresa Saldana\n\nTheresa Saldana (August 20, 1954 – June 6, 2016) was an American actress, activist, and writer. She is known for her role as Rachel Scali, the wife of Police Commissioner Tony Scali, in the 1990s television series \"The Commish\", for which she received a Golden Globe nomination for Best Performance by an Actress in a Supporting Role, in 1994. Major film roles include Lenora LaMotta, the wife of Joe Pesci's character in the 1980 film, \"Raging Bull\", and as a Beatles fan in Robert Zemeckis' Beatlemania ensemble \"I Wanna Hold Your Hand\". She was also known for raising public awareness of the crime of stalking after surviving a knife attack by an obsessed fan at her home in 1982.\n\nSaldana was born in the Brooklyn borough of New York City, and was adopted at five days old by Divina and Tony Saldana, a family of Puerto Rican and Italian-American heritage.\n\nSaldana took dance lessons as a child. After suffering a serious shoulder injury while part of a tumbling team, she enrolled in acting classes at age 12. After being spotted by a talent scout while performing in an Off Broadway musical called \"The New York City Street Show\" in 1977, she was cast in the 1978 film \"Nunzio\".\n\nOn March 15, 1982, Saldana was stalked by Arthur Richard Jackson, a 46-year-old drifter from Aberdeen, Scotland. Jackson became obsessed with Saldana after seeing her in the 1980 films \"Defiance\" and \"Raging Bull\". He obtained Saldana's address by hiring a private investigator to obtain the unlisted phone number of Saldana's mother. Jackson then called Saldana's mother and posed as Martin Scorsese's assistant, saying he needed Saldana's residential address in order to contact her for replacing an actress in a film role in Europe.\n\nJackson approached Saldana in front of her West Hollywood residence in broad daylight and attacked her with a 5½-inch (14 cm) hunting knife, puncturing a lung. His attack was so fierce that the blade bent. Although there were many nearby onlookers including children, the attack was interrupted only when a deliveryman, Jeff Fenn, intervened after hearing her cries, rushed from the second floor of an apartment building, and incapacitated Jackson. Following the assault, Saldana was hospitalized with 10 stab wounds and underwent a four-month hospital stay at the Motion Picture Hospital. She relived the incident in the made-for-TV movie \"\" and again in an episode of \"Hunter\".\n\nJackson served almost 14 years in prison for the assault and making subsequent threats against Saldana and her rescuer while in prison. He was then extradited to the United Kingdom in 1996 to be tried for a 1966 robbery and murder. Jackson (who once saw himself as \"the benevolent angel of death\") was found not guilty by diminished responsibility in 1997 and committed to a British psychiatric hospital, where he died of heart failure in 2004, at the age of 68.\n\nJackson's method to find and approach Saldana inspired stalker Robert John Bardo to hire a private investigator to contact Rebecca Schaeffer, a young TV sitcom star whom he subsequently murdered, also in West Hollywood, in July 18, 1989.\n\nFollowing her long recovery, Saldana founded the Victims for Victims organization and participated in lobbying for the 1990 anti-stalking law and the 1994 Driver's Privacy Protection Act, both of which came into being partly as a consequence of the attack. The experience also inspired Saldana to play herself in the television movie \"Victims for Victims: The Theresa Saldana Story\", and she authored the book \"Beyond Survival\", a memoir of her experiences after being attacked.\n\nSaldana's first marriage was to Fred Feliciano from February 11, 1979 to 1986. In March 1989, she married for second time, to Phil Peters, with whom she had a daughter, Tianna Saldana Peters (born on August 30, 1989, in Los Angeles). They remained together until her death.\n\nSaldana died at age 61 on June 6, 2016, following her hospitalization for pneumonia at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center. Michael Chiklis, who played Saldana's husband on \"The Commish\", wrote that it was \"painful to hear the news\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1997320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997320", "title": "Bomb Factory", "text": "Bomb Factory\n\nBomb Factory Studios features an extensive collection of vintage and historic equipment and musical instruments. Between 1996 and 1999, Bomb Factory was the host and benefactor involved in the restoration of dozens of instruments now part of the non-profit National Music Centre in Calgary, Alberta, Canada.\n\nErik Gavriluk, the owner of Bomb Factory Studios, met Dave Amels while restoring the museum pieces. Together they decided to take their music production expertise and knowledge of vintage equipment and apply it to digital signal processing for Pro Tools by forming Bomb Factory Digital.\n\nKey innovations included:\n\n\nIn 2004, Digidesign acquired all 27 shipping Bomb Factory products. Bomb Factory retained rights to more than 30 unreleased products and associated technologies.\n\n"}
{"id": "1997324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997324", "title": "Walton-le-Dale", "text": "Walton-le-Dale\n\nWalton-le-Dale is a large village in the Borough of South Ribble, in Lancashire, England. It lies on the south bank of the River Ribble, opposite the city of Preston, adjacent to Bamber Bridge. The population of the South Ribble Ward at the 2011 census was 3,792. To the west of Walton-le-Dale is the residential area of Walton Park.\n\nWalton is derived from \"walh\" and \"tun\" and means the farmstead or settlement of the Britons. It was recorded in the Domesday Book as Waletune. In the 13th century it was recorded as Waleton and since about 1300 Waleton in le (la) Dale, or Walton in the valley.\n\nThe remains of a Roman fort at the junction of the River Darwen and River Ribble at Walton-le-Dale were discovered by accident in the mid 19th century. Roman remains found here include pottery and coins. The fort may have been the Rigodunum of Ptolemy, although most people locate it at Castleshaw.\n\nTwo oxgangs of land in Walton belonged to King Edward the Confessor in 1066, and after the Norman conquest, was the demesne of Roger de Busli and Albert Grelley. The manor passed in about 1130 to Henry de Lacy of Pontefract and was later granted to the Banastres and their successors the Langtons. John de Langton obtained the right to hold a weekly market and an annual fair in October in 1301.\nThe manor passed from the Langtons to the Hoghtons of Hoghton who held the manor as mesne lord.\n\nDuring the English Civil War the bridges over the river were the scene of skimishes between the Royalists and Roundheads. In 1644 Royalists were captured by Parliamentarians and Walton was the principal scene of the first Battle of Preston, fought on 17 August 1648 between Cromwell and the Duke of Hamilton.\n\nIn 1715, during the second Battle of Preston, the bridge over the River Ribble was successfully defended against the Jacobites by Parson Wood and his parishioners of Chowbent.\n\nDuring the Industrial Revolution there were four cotton mills, including Flats Mills belonging to William Calvert which employed 400 workers and James Livesey and Son's Moon Mill employing 130 workers. There was a cotton printing business and in 1800 Robert Whittaker established an iron foundry.\n\nAnciently Walton-le-Dale was a township and chapelry in the parish of Blackburn and a part of the hundred of Blackburnshire. In 1701 the Duke of Norfolk, the Earl of Derwentwater and other Jacobites incorporated the town by the style of the \"mayor and corporation of the ancient borough of Walton.\"\n\nIt became part of the Preston Poor Law Union, formed in 1837, which took responsibility for the administration and funding of the Poor Law and built a workhouse in that area. A local board was formed in 1877, and in 1894 an urban district council of twelve members representing four wards was formed. Walton-le-Dale was in the Darwen parliamentary division of Lancashire. Since 1974 the local council is South Ribble based in Leyland and the area is part of the Ribble Valley parliamentary constituency.\n\nWalton-le-Dale is served regularly by Stagecoach Merseyside & South Lancashire and Blackburn Bus Company buses. Preston Bus also operate a subsidised bus service on behalf of Lancashire County Council, as well as the Park & Ride service into Preston City Centre.\n\nThe church of St Leonard, situated on high ground to the east of the village, was originally erected in the 11th century. The earliest portions of the present building are the Perpendicular chancel and tower, the nave having been rebuilt in 1798, while the transepts were erected in 1816.\nThere are a number of interesting old brasses and monuments.\n\nIn 1701 some of the local gentry including the Duke of Norfolk, the Earl of Derwentwater and other Jacobites formed the Mock Borough of Walton, a social club, which lasted for about 50 years, and met in the Unicorn Inn, near Darwen Bridge. The mock corporation had officers which included a mayor, his deputy, recorder, bailiff, chaplain, serjeant, physician and mace-bearer but which also appointed a house-groper, jester, poet laureate, master of the hounds, sword-bearer, in 1708 a slut-kisser and in 1711 a custard-eater.\n\nAt midnight on 12 August 1560, under the moonlight in St Leonard's Churchyard, occultist and scholar Dr John Dee summoned the spirit of a man who had died before giving the whereabouts of a considerable amount of money. It is said that he was successful and the spirit did indeed tell the occultist the whereabouts of the wealth, but not before also predicting to Dee the fate of many of the locals, which is said to have later come true.\n\"This section incorporates text from the 1911 Encyclopædia Britannica, which is in the public domain\".\n\nIn postal addresses, Walton-le-Dale extends as far as the St Mary's estate, almost as far as Brownedge Road, yet this estate is electorially in Bamber Bridge West ward. As such, the boundary between Walton-le-Dale and Bamber Bridge isn't clear.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1997328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997328", "title": "An Evening's Love", "text": "An Evening's Love\n\nAn Evening's Love, or The Mock Astrologer is a comedy in prose by John Dryden. It was first performed before Charles II and Queen Catherine by the King's Company at the Theatre Royal on Bridges Street, London, on Friday, 12 June 1668. Samuel Pepys saw the play on 20 June of that year, but didn't like it; in his Diary he called it \"very smutty.\"\n\nThe play was first published in 1671 by Henry Herringman; Dryden dedicated to work to William Cavendish, Duke of Newcastle.\n\nDryden's sources for \"An Evening's Love\" include Thomas Corneille's comedy \"Le Feint Astrologue\", Madeleine de Scudéry's novel \"Ibrahim, ou l'Illustre Bassa\", and Calderón's comedy \"El Astrologo fingido\", as well as several other French, Spanish, Italian, and English works.\n\nThe action of the play takes place in Madrid on the last night before Lent, 1665, and involves two young English gentlemen, Wildblood and Bellamy, and their comic servant Maskall, who fall in love with two beautiful young Spanish ladies, Donna Theodosia and Donna Jacinta, and their clever servant Beatrix.\n\nThe original production featured Charles Hart as Wildblood, Michael Mohun as Bellamy, Nell Gwyn as Jacinta, Nicholas Burt as Don Lopez, William Wintershall as Don Alonzo, Robert Shatterell as Maskal, Anne Marshall as Aurelia, and Mary Knep as Beatrix.\n"}
{"id": "1997332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997332", "title": "The Prince and the Showgirl", "text": "The Prince and the Showgirl\n\nThe Prince and the Showgirl (originally titled \"The Sleeping Prince\") is a 1957 romantic comedy film starring Marilyn Monroe and Laurence Olivier. Olivier also served as director and producer. The screenplay by Terence Rattigan was based on his 1953 stage play \"The Sleeping Prince\". It was filmed at Pinewood Studios in Buckinghamshire.\n\nThe film is set in London in June 1911. George V will be crowned king on 22 June and in the preceding days many important dignitaries arrive. Among those arriving are the 16-year-old King Nicholas VIII of the (fictional) Balkan country of Carpathia, with his father the widower Prince Regent, Charles (Laurence Olivier) and his maternal grandmother the widowed Queen dowager of Carpathia, considered to be inspired by King Michael of Romania, Carol II of Romania, and Queen Marie of Romania.\n\nThe British government decide that keeping Carpathia in the Triple Entente is critical during the rising tensions in Europe. They find it necessary to pamper the royals during their stay in London, and thus civil servant Northbrook (Richard Wattis) is detached to their service. Northbrook decides to take the Prince Regent out to the musical performance \"The Coconut Girl\". During the intermission, the Prince Regent is taken backstage to meet the cast. He is not particularly interested in engaging with the male actors but extremely interested in the physical charms of Elsie Marina (Marilyn Monroe), one of the performers, and he sends a formal invitation for her to meet him at the Carpathian embassy for supper.\n\nElsie arrives at the embassy and is soon joined by the Prince Regent, a stiff and pompous man. She expects a large party but quickly realises the Prince's true intentions – to seduce her over a private supper. She is persuaded not to leave early by Northbrook, who promises to provide an excuse for her to escape after supper. The Prince Regent turns his back on her during the supper, taking phone calls and addressing matters of state. He then makes a clumsy pass at her, which she immediately rebuffs. She pointedly explains how inept he is and that she had hoped the Prince was going to sway her with romance, passion and \"gypsy violins\". The Prince changes his style and tactics, complete with a violinist. The two eventually kiss and Elsie admits she may be falling in love, rebuffing Northbrook's promised feint to help her leave the embassy. Elsie then passes out from the many drinks she consumed before, during and after her semi-solitary supper. The Prince places her in an adjoining bedroom to stay the night.\n\nThe following day, Elsie overhears a conversation concerning the young Nicolas' plotting with the German embassy to overthrow his father. Promising not to tell, Elsie then meets the Dowager Queen (Sybil Thorndike), the Prince's mother-in-law, who decides Elsie should join them for the coronation in place of her sick lady-in-waiting. The ceremony passes and Elsie refuses to tell the Prince Regent details of the treasonous plot. Nicholas then invites her to the Coronation Ball, where she persuades Nicholas to draw up a contract in which he confesses his and the Germans' intent, but only if the Prince agrees to a general election. The Prince is impressed and realises that he has fallen in love with Elsie. The morning after the Coronation Ball, Elsie irons out the differences between father and son. Her honesty and sincerity have inspired the Prince to finally show sincere love to his son.\n\nThe next day, the Carpathians must leave to return home. The Prince Regent had planned to have Elsie join them. In eighteen months' time, his regency will be over and he will be a free citizen. She reminds him that that is also the length of her music-hall contract. They both realise that much can happen in eighteen months and say goodbye.\n\n\nThe film was produced and directed by Laurence Olivier. It was shot in Technicolor at Pinewood Studios. Marilyn Monroe had formed her own company - Marilyn Monroe Productions, through which she purchased the rights to Terence Rattigan's \"The Sleeping Prince\". Olivier and Vivien Leigh had played the lead roles in the original London production of the play.\n\nProduction was marred with difficulties between Monroe and her co-stars and the production team. According to Jean Kent, Monroe regularly failed to arrive on set on time and \"appeared dirty and dishevelled\". She caused her co-star Richard Wattis, who had a lot of scenes with her, to \"take to drink because takes had to be done so many times\" and had an uneasy relationship with the normally quiet and placid cinematographer Jack Cardiff, who said that Olivier referred to her as a \"bitch\". \"She never arrived on time, never said a line the same way twice, seemed completely unable to hit her marks on the set and couldn’t and wouldn’t do anything at all without consulting her acting coach, Paula Strasberg.\" Olivier also reportedly showed a strong dislike of Monroe and her acting coach; he ordered Strasberg off the set at one point and Monroe refused to continue shooting until she was restored. The relationship between Olivier and Monroe worsened when Olivier said \"try and be sexy\" to her and she never forgave him for it. Kent states that the difficulties with filming and Monroe caused Olivier \"to age 15 years.\"\n\nDonald Sinden, then a contract star for the Rank Organisation at Pinewood Studios, had a permanent dressing room four doors from Monroe's during the filming, although working on different movies. He said:\nThe film opened on June 13, 1957 in New York and in Los Angeles and London on July 3, 1957.\n\n\"The Prince and the Showgirl\" was not a major box office success, faring poorly in comparison to Monroe's earlier releases, such as \"The Seven Year Itch\" and \"Bus Stop\". Particularly popular in the United Kingdom, it failed to find the same success in America but managed to earn a substantial profit.\n\nOn Rotten Tomatoes, the film has an approval rating of 71% based on seven critics with an average score of 5.8/10. \n\"Variety\" staff wrote in their original review, \"This first indie production of Marilyn Monroe's company is a generally pleasant comedy, but the pace is leisurely. Filmed in London with a predominantly British cast, the film is not a cliche Cinderella story as its title might indicate.\" \"The New York Times\" stated that the film lacked originality and that Rattigan's characterizations were \"too limiting\" and \"dull\" to allow Monroe and Olivier to be showcased to their fullest potential.\n\nMonroe and Olivier received particular praise for their performances. Thorndike's performance was also described as \"excellent\" by \"Variety\".\n\nThe 2011 film \"My Week with Marilyn\" depicts the week in which Monroe spent being escorted around London by personal assistant Colin Clark, during the filming of \"The Prince and the Showgirl.\" The movie is largely based upon two books by Clark recounting his experiences during the production: \"My Week with Marilyn\" (2000) and \"The Prince, the Showgirl, and Me: Six Months on the Set With Marilyn and Olivier\" (1996). Both books and the film depict Monroe striking up a friendship and semi-romantic relationship with Clark for a brief time during production.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1997334", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997334", "title": "Masters of Doom", "text": "Masters of Doom\n\nMasters of Doom: How Two Guys Created an Empire and Transformed Pop Culture is a 2003 book by David Kushner about id Software and its influence on popular culture, focusing chiefly on the video-game company's co-founders John Carmack and John Romero.\n\nUpon release, \"Masters of Doom\" received positive reviews from critics and has been placed on numerous \"best of\" lists for video game books. The book would later influence Palmer Luckey to establish the technology company Oculus VR. In 2019, it was announced that the USA Network greenlit a pilot episode of a potential series based on the book.\n\nDavid Kushner was a contributor for news outlets such as \"The New York Times\", \"Rolling Stone\", and \"Wired\". Being his first book, Kushner spent five years on research. He moved to Dallas, Texas to conduct the interviews with the subjects, interviewing them late into the night. \n\nThe book describes the \"Two Johns'\" respective childhoods, their first meeting at Softdisk in 1989 and the eventual founding of their own company, id Software. It discusses in detail the company's first successes, the popular and groundbreaking \"Commander Keen\" and \"Wolfenstein 3D\" games, as well as the new heights the company reached with \"Doom\", which granted the company unprecedented success, fame and notoriety. It also discusses id's next project, \"Quake\", as well as the aftermath of Romero's departure from the company and his founding – and the eventual collapse – of Ion Storm, his new game development studio. Kushner also describes the new gamer culture created by \"Doom\" and its impact on society.\n\nWhile the games themselves are discussed in detail, Kushner's main focus is in the work dynamic and personalities that enabled their creation. He describes Carmack and Romero as the driving forces of id Software, but with very different personalities: Romero is presented as having unbridled creativity and considerable skill, but he loses focus when the spectacular success of the games allows him to adopt a rock star-like public persona. Carmack, on the other hand, is depicted as an introvert, whose unparalleled programming skills are the backbone of id Software, enabling the company to create extremely sophisticated games. However, he has little interest in – or even understanding of – the social niceties that enable people to enjoy working together.\n\nMuch of the book concentrates on this dynamic. While the two men initially complement each other well, eventually conflicts develop, leading Romero to be fired from the company. Carmack, the skilled creator of the complicated and fast game engines the company's products use, is repeatedly referred to as the only person in the company who isn't expendable, and this gives him a great degree of authority and influence. However, this influence transforms id Software into a considerably less pleasant and fun place to work and causes the company's games to become increasingly repetitive, despite their technological sophistication. Romero is on the opposite end of the spectrum; his Ion Storm is intended to be a very fun place to work, where \"[game] design is law\" (Ion Storm's slogan was \"Design is Law\") and that technology must be created to realize the designer's vision, instead of the other way around. However, his lack of management and organizational focus leads to poor and financially disastrous results.\n\nAlthough Kushner adopts a novel-like narrative, \"Masters of Doom\" is a work of journalism. According to Kushner's notes in the book, it is based on hundreds of interviews conducted over a six-year period. Kushner was an early entrant into the field of video-game journalism, and recycled some of his own original reporting in the book.\n\n\"Masters of Doom: How Two Guys Created an Empire and Transformed Pop Culture\" was first published in May 2003 by Random House in hardcover and ebook form. Random House released an excerpt of the book before its release. Random House later negotiated a deal with UK publisher Piatkus, releasing a trade paperback in autumn 2003.\n\nSeth Mnookin for \"The New York Times\" described the book for its pacing and detail, calling it \"an impressive and adroit social history.\" Jeff Jensen for \"Entertainment Weekly\" gave it a \"B\" rating. Thomas L. McDonald for \"Maximum PC\" offered praise for its prose and its representation of the subjects. \"Edge\" described the book as being akin to a Greek drama without the pathos, adding that the story was \"a cautionary tale of relationships in the games industry.\" \"Hardcore Gaming 101\" considered the book to be \"a highly entertaining and quite informative read.\" Scott Juster for \"PopMatters\" gave praise to Kushner's extensive research and interviews of Carmack and Romero. Since its release, the book been placed on several \"best video game books\" lists.\n\n\"Salon\" contributor Wagner James Au, while declaring the book to be \"excellent\", criticized David Kushner for giving too much credit to \"Catacomb 3-D\" in terms of technical merit in comparison to \"Ultima Underworld\". Ann Donahue for \"Variety\" considered the character study of \"the two Johns\" to be interesting but thought the book had \"problematic tunnel vision\" by rarely taking a broader look at the impact \"Doom\" had outside of the gaming industry. \"Computer Gaming World\"s Charles Ardai called it \"clumsily written but nonetheless compelling\". \"Publishers Weekly\" considered Kushner to have given too much leeway about the violence in the two Johns games. The magazine also criticized the narration to be dry in parts of the book.\n\nPalmer Luckey, the founder of the technology company Oculus VR, first became interested in virtual reality after reading \"Masters of Doom\". John Carmack would later leave id Software in 2013 to work for Oculus as their chief technology officer. In 2016, Kushner released an audiobook follow-up titled \"Prepare to Meet Thy Doom and More True Gaming Stories\". The book is a compilation of Kushner's long-form journalism which included a “where-they-are-now” article on Carmack and Romero. The book was read by Wil Wheaton.\n\nIn 2005, former Ion Storm chief executive officer Michael Wilson sued publisher Random House Inc., claiming the book made false allegations against him making a dodgy business deal to purchase a BMW with funds from the company. Wilson sought $50 million in damages, with further punitive damages from the publisher. A spokesperson for Random House issued a statement announcing the publishing company's support of David Kushner.\n\nPlans to adapt the book was first conceived in 2005, when it was announced that producer Naren Shankar was planning a television movie for Showtime based on the story. The movie never materialized beyond the initial announcement.\n\nIn June 2019, USA Network greenlit a pilot episode of a potential series based on the book, to be written and produced by Tom Bissell under James and Dave Franco's Ramona Films label. The series, if it should continue, is expected to be an anthology series. The series will feature Eduardo Franco as Romero, Patrick Gibson as Carmack, and will also star John Karna, Jane Ackermann, Siobhan Williams, and Peter Friedman, and will be directed by Rhys Thomas.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1997343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997343", "title": "Elmer George Homrighausen", "text": "Elmer George Homrighausen\n\nElmer George Homrighausen (April 11, 1900 – January 3, 1982) was an American theologian.\n\nHomrighausen was born in Wheatland, Iowa, and earned an A.B. (1921) from Lakeland College (Wisconsin), a B.Th. (1924) from Princeton Theological Seminary, an M.A. (1920) from Butler University, and a Th.M. (1929) from the University of Dubuque.\n\nHe was Professor of Christian Education at Princeton Theological Seminary from 1938 to 1954, and served as Dean of the seminary from 1955 to 1964. \n\nHe retired in 1970, and the seminary established a Chair of Christian Social Ethics named in his honor. He also served as Vice Moderator of the United Presbyterian Church, and on the World Council of Christian Education, Princeton Board of Education, World Council of Churches, and other bodies. \n\nHe died in Princeton, New Jersey, aged 81.\n\nHe and his wife, Ruth W. Strassburger, raised six children.\n\n"}
{"id": "1997344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997344", "title": "Great Guitars (Joe Louis Walker album)", "text": "Great Guitars (Joe Louis Walker album)\n\nGreat Guitars is an album by blues guitarist Joe Louis Walker. It was released in 1997 on the Polygram label as catalogue number 537141.\n\nMany of the songs on the album are duets with other artists. The album received mostly favourable reviews upon its release.\n\n\nMusicians\nGuest musicians\nProduction\n"}
{"id": "1997345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997345", "title": "Winooski River", "text": "Winooski River\n\nThe Winooski River (formerly the Onion River) is a tributary of Lake Champlain, approximately long, in the northern half of Vermont. Although not Vermont's longest river, it is one of the state's most significant, forming a major valley way from Lake Champlain through the Green Mountains towards (although not connecting in drainage to) the Connecticut River valley.\n\nThe river drains an area of the northern Green Mountains between Vermont's capital of Montpelier and its largest city, Burlington. It rises in the town of Cabot in Washington County, and then flows southwest to Montpelier, passing through the city along the south side of downtown and the Vermont State House. From Montpelier it flows northwest into Chittenden County through Richmond, passing north of the city of Burlington. It enters the eastern side of Lake Champlain approximately northwest of downtown Burlington. The city of Winooski sits along the river approximately upstream from its mouth, on the northeastern edge of Burlington. The river was historically used for the transportation of timber in the logging heyday of Vermont during the 19th century. The valley of the river downstream from Montpelier is where both U.S. Highway 2 and Interstate 89 run between Montpelier and Burlington.\n\nThe river is one of several antecedent rivers in Vermont which predate the rise of the ancient Green Mountains, and have cut through these mountains as they rose and eroded.\n\nThe Winooski is fed by several tributary rivers: the Little River, the North Branch and the Kingsbury Branch are right-bank tributaries, entering from the north, while the Huntington River, Mad River, Dog River and Stevens Branch are left-bank tributaries which enter from the south. The Lower Tributaries, smaller tributary streams nearer the mouth of the Winooski, include Allen Brook, Alder Brook, Gleason Brook, Mill Brook, and Muddy Brook.\n\nThe name \"Winooski\" comes from the Abenaki word \"winoskik\" meaning \"at wild onion land\", a reference to the leeks or wild onions that were once common along the river banks. The byname \"Onion River\" came into general usage in the late 18th and early 19th century, after Ira and Ethan Allen established the Onion River Land Company.\n\nIn the late winter of 1992, ice blockage in the Winooski caused a major flood in Montpelier, causing extensive damage to much of the downtown, the worst flood in Montpelier's history since the larger Great Flood of 1927.\n\nThe river is used for a variety of purposes. It is popular for recreational uses such as canoeing, kayaking, fishing and swimming. In addition to providing habitats for the native brook trout, the Winooski and its tributaries also support naturalized populations of wild rainbow trout and brown trout. Smallmouth bass and walleye are found in the lower reaches of the river, and migratory populations of largemouth bass and northern pike often enter the Winooski from Lake Champlain in the spring.\n\nAdditionally, a number of hydroelectric dams are used for generating electricity. The Winooski One Dam, located on the river in the city of Winooski, was the first high-performance civil structure in the world imbedded with fiber optic sensors when it was built in 1992. For this reason, the dam was listed in the Guinness Book of World Records as the \"world's most intelligent dam\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1997346", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997346", "title": "David Kushner", "text": "David Kushner\n\nDavid Kushner is a writer who has contributed to publications including \"Wired\", \"The New York Times\", \"Rolling Stone\", SPIN, \"IEEE Spectrum\" and \"Salon\". From 1994 to 1996 he worked as a senior producer and writer on the SonicNet website. The first edition of his non-fiction book, \"Masters of Doom\", was published in 2003. His second non-fiction book, \"Jonny Magic and the Card Shark Kids\", was published in 2005. Kushner's book, \"Levittown: Two Families, One Tycoon, and the Fight for Civil Rights in America's Legendary Suburb\", was published in 2009.\n\nIn 2012, his narrative non-fiction book \"\" was published. \"Jacked\" provided an inside look at the inner-workings of the video game company Rockstar Games, makers of the controversial Grand Theft Auto series, and attorney Jack Thompson's attempt to destroy it. The book served as the basis for a film on the BBC, \"Game Changer\".\n\nKushner's 2016 autobiography, \"Alligator Candy\", describes the abduction and murder of his preteen brother, Jonathan Kushner. One of the individuals convicted for murder, Johnny Paul Witt, was executed by the State of Florida after a lengthy appeal (see Wainwright v. Witt). David Kushner's book investigates details of the murder and describes the emotional trauma this inflicted on the family.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1997358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997358", "title": "American Basketball Association (2000–present)", "text": "American Basketball Association (2000–present)\n\nThe American Basketball Association (ABA) is an American semi-professional men's basketball minor league that was founded in 1999.\n\nThe ABA has teams based in the United States and previously had international teams based in Canada and Mexico. In the past, there were traveling teams from countries such as Australia and Japan who played in the ABA. Additionally, there were players from other countries that were on a U.S. team to showcase other talented athletes in the country.\n\nThe current ABA bears no relation to the original American Basketball Association (1967–1976) that was considered a major league, and merged with the National Basketball Association (NBA) in 1976.\n\nThe current ABA was started by Joe Newman and Richard Tinkham. Tinkham was an executive with the Indiana Pacers when they were in the original ABA. They licensed the ABA name from the NBA.\n\nThe league started in 2000 with eight teams. During its initial years of operation, the league focused mainly on teams in larger cities. To attract fans, the ABA encouraged its members to fill rosters with former NBA players and past college basketball stars with local ties.\n\nIn 2002–03, the league suspended operations for reorganization. The league continued to play for the 2003–2004 season, but the focus had shifted from a few teams in large cities to numerous teams in both large and medium-sized cities. Franchise fees were lowered from $50,000 to $10,000 and the bond requirement was removed in order to attract new teams. The subsequent reduction in initial operating costs allowed the formation of several teams that might otherwise not be possible. However, it resulted in some under-financed ownership groups. Since 2004, several new teams have failed to complete their inaugural season due to financial insolvency.\n\nAlso, teams were organized into regional groups to facilitate interest and reduce travel costs starting with the 2003–2004 season.\n\nThe 2004–05 season was the first under this new format, with 37 teams playing that season. Subsequent seasons brought drastic expansion. Some teams had proved to be successful in their early years, but others did not complete their initial seasons. At times, the ABA had 50+ teams playing each season. Some of the more successful expansion franchises during this era included the Arkansas RimRockers in 2004 and the Rochester Razorsharks in 2005. Both teams won the ABA title during their first seasons in the league.\n\nThe 2006–07 season saw the nominal cost for a new expansion franchise raised to $20,000, but many still sold for $10,000 – $5,000 or less. In some cases, teams were sold for as little as $1. One notable 2006–07 expansion franchise was the Vermont Frost Heaves, owned by \"Sports Illustrated\" writer Alexander Wolff. Also in 2006–07, former NBA player John Salley was named league commissioner, and Maryland Nighthawks owner Tom Doyle was named chief operating officer.\n\nFollowing the league's first public offering in 2006, it was reported that Joe Newman was voted out of his position as league CEO. The league's required Securities and Exchange Commission filings in February 2007 indicated that the ABA Board of Directors removed Newman as CEO on January 31, 2007. The filings further stated that Newman's actions as CEO would be reviewed to ensure that they were performed with the board's permission. The same filing also claimed that Newman and other shareholders plotted to remove Tom Doyle, John Salley, and David Howitt from the board and to elect Paul Riley as its director. Newman denied his removal ever occurred, and continued as acting CEO. The lawsuits were settled in March 2007 with Doyle's and Salley's resignations from the league's Board of Directors.\n\nThe 2006–07 season saw many franchises fail to travel to road games or to play a full schedule. When weather-related issues did not allow defending champion Rochester Razorsharks to travel for a playoff game against the Wilmington Sea Dawgs, the league attempted to force Rochester to forfeit rather than reschedule. Instead, Rochester chose to withdraw from the league. These several incidents caused some league owners to perceive instability within the league. These frustrated owners separated from the ABA to form the Premier Basketball League (PBL) in late 2007.\n\nNearly twenty teams folded within the first five weeks of the 2007–08 season, and several remaining teams left the ABA to join other existing leagues. According to \"Our Sports Central\", approximately 35% of the games scheduled for the season were played. The teams that played the highest percentage of games were Vermont, the Manchester (NH) Millrats, and the Quebec Kebs. At the conclusion of the season, all three of these teams left to join the PBL.\n\nAnother unique franchise for the 2008–09 season was the Beijing Aoshen Olympians, which had previously been kicked out of the Chinese Basketball League and played only home games in the ABA. All Olympians' games were played in Singapore. The Beijing franchise paid $3000 and all team flight accommodations to Singapore for each 2-game home-stand.\n\nFollowing the 2007–2008 season, the league's most successful franchise by attendance, the Halifax Rainmen, left the ABA. Halifax ownership cited growing frustration with teams that did not show for scheduled games, as well as a biased ranking system. Sports media began to openly criticize the league and question its ability to be taken seriously.\n\nThe 2008–09 season saw the league conduct interleague play with the Continental Basketball Association.\n\nThe 2009–10 season was scheduled to have over 50 teams. The season ended with several teams folding in early December, including the entire Northwest Division. The league canceled several playoff games due to the inability of teams to afford travel. The playoffs ended with Southeast Texas Mustangs defeating the Kentucky Bisons in a three-game series.\n\nOn April 25, 2010, as part of their ABA Global Initiative, the league hosted the 2010 ABA Friendship Games, in which the Philippine National Basketball Team competed against several ABA teams.\n\nThe 2010–11 season was expected to field over 60 teams, including a new Canadian Division. In the summer of 2010, the league announced its first Haitian professional basketball team, the Haitian Relief. In total, the ABA planned to host over 800 games throughout the season.\n\nHowever, the 2010–2011 campaign ended similar to previous seasons, with several teams folding either before or during the season. Instead of the promised 60 teams, the league fielded fewer than 50 full-time franchises that actually played games.\n\nThe 2011 ABA All-Star Game resulted in a 123–122 Eastern Conference win over the Western Conference in front of a crowd of 4,488 at the Jacksonville Veterans Memorial Arena in Jacksonville, Florida. The playoffs started the following weekend, with the last four teams playing a double-elimination tournament at the home of the Southeast Texas Mavericks. The Mavericks won their second ABA title two games to none over the Gulf Coast Flash.\n\nDespite continued instability, the league announced plans to form a new Women's American Basketball Association (WABA), unrelated to the original Women's American Basketball Association, which existed for one season in 2002. The new league's first squad was to be located in Greenville, North Carolina.\n\nThe league failed to launch the WABA in the 2011–12 season and announced new plans to launch for the 2012–2013 season. The second attempted launch was pushed back to the 2013–2014 season with nine initial teams set to play: the Philly Love, New Jersey Express, New England Stormers, Hampton Roads Lightning, Lake City Kingdom Riderettes, Fayetteville Lady Cadets, Columbus Lady Road Runners, McAllen Queens, and Chicago Lady Steam. As of February 2019, the WABA has yet to report any game results.\n\nMarch 23, 2015 the ABA announced the launch of a new Media & Entertainment Division to be headed by hip hop mogul & ABA team owner Antjuan \"Tjuan Benafactor\" Washington.\n\nOn June 22, 2015, the ABA announced a multi-year partnership with Sports Radio America. \"The ABA on SRA Game of the Week\" will showcase some of the best matchups in the ABA.\n\nOctober 9, 2015, the ABA announced online live streaming partnerships with both LiveSportsCaster and WatchIDSN, two independent live sports streaming platforms based in Louisville, Kentucky, and Chicago, Illinois, respectively.\n\nOn April 9, 2016, the Jacksonville Giants won the ABA championship, their third, with a 93–90 win over the Windy City Groove. They had previously defeated the Groove 92–80 on April 8, 2016, to take the best-of-three series in straight games.\n\nOn February 10, 2017, the Hawaii Swish, owned by Geremy Robinson and a member of the Far West Division, debuted at Neal Blaisdell Arena with a game against the Yuba City Goldminers.\n\nOn April 13, 2019, the Jacksonville Giants captured their fourth straight and sixth overall ABA championship title with a 116–112 win over South Florida Gold.\n\nThe ABA policy of awarding a franchise to anyone who is willing to pay the ABA franchise fee, with no consideration given to whether the franchisee can afford to operate the team, resulted in over 200 folded franchises as of the beginning of the 2008 season. As of summer 2014, the number was over 350.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nFormer CEO Joe Newman started Bully-Free ABA! after his grandchildren became victims of bullying. The program features players visiting schools to share stories about their own experiences with bullying and how such issues can be solved.\n\nTeam coaches are involved as well, in 2012, Kitsap Admirals coach Chris Koebelin was an active leader in the program. Koebelin mentioned to the students during his visits that he was bullied as a child. Following the visits, time is usually allowed for the students to interact with the team on the court.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1997363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997363", "title": "Pathfinder (Star Trek: Voyager)", "text": "Pathfinder (Star Trek: Voyager)\n\n\"Pathfinder\" is the tenth episode of the of the science fiction television series \"\", 130th episode overall. It features the characters Reginald Barclay and Deanna Troi from \"\". Paris's dad Admiral Paris played by Richard Herd, makes contact with his son. This also marks the first contact with Earth by Voyager since \"\" (S4E14).\n\nThis episode debuted on UPN on December 2, 1999.\n\nOn Earth, Reginald Barclay is involved in the Pathfinder project, an effort to communicate with the USS \"Voyager\" stranded in the Delta Quadrant. Barclay soon becomes obsessed. He loses himself in the reality of the holographic \"Voyager\" created for the project, enjoying the false friendships within.\n\nHe seeks help from old friend and shipmate Counselor Deanna Troi who advises him to forge real relationships and stop straying into the holo-program he has created of the \"Voyager\" ship and crew. When Admiral Paris visits the project to inspect progress, Barclay ignores orders from Commander Harkins, the project leader, not to bother the Admiral with his infeasible suggestions. Barclay puts forward his theory that using the MIDAS Array (an advanced sensor array), and computing \"Voyager\"s progress from their last contact, they would be able to create a micro wormhole in the Delta Quadrant near \"Voyager\" and use it to create a two way communication link. Admiral Paris is intrigued by this and promises to give it further study which Barclay is highly excited by, but at a later meeting with Admiral Paris, Barclay oversteps the line and is removed from the project for insubordination.\n\nLater that night, he breaks back in to the Pathfinder project to prove his theory is correct. He hacks into the system and sends commands to the array which, as he predicted, creates the wormhole in the Delta Quadrant. As he attempts to contact \"Voyager\" using the array, Starfleet detects and sends security personnel to stop him. Barclay locks out the system and takes refuge in the holodeck simulation of \"Voyager\" where he continues to direct the wormhole to locate \"Voyager\". The security officers led by Commander Harkins follow Barclay into the simulation where the faux \"Voyager\" crew rebels, even firing on the security officers. Of course, this has no effect except to momentarily distract them as the safety protocols are on. The holo-Torres is destroyed by a pursuing Commander Harkins, who shuts down the primary cooling systems on the holographic \"Voyager\" which will cause the warp core to overheat and breach, effectively destroying the entire program unless Barclay complies and releases command back to him.\n\nAs a dejected Barclay is led out, Admiral Paris enters the lab and announces that Barclay's idea has real promise and should be explored further. As he is informed that the attempt has already been made and was unsuccessful, Admiral Paris expresses regret at Barclay's choice to disregard protocol.\n\nMeanwhile, the real \"Voyager\", far in the Delta Quadrant, detects the micro-wormhole and a communication signal which Seven of Nine disbelievingly identifies as Federation in origin on a Starfleet Emergency Channel. The crew attempts to clear up the signal while back on Earth, the jubilant officers and Barclay assist. For a few seconds the team on Earth clear up the return signal, two-way communication is established for 86 seconds before the micro-wormhole collapses. A few words are exchanged and data from \"Voyager\"s logs, crew reports, and navigational records are transmitted to Earth. Barclay sends \"data on some new hyper-subspace technology\", along with recommended modifications to the ship's communications system, so that \"Voyager\"s crew will be able to keep regular contact with home. In the final seconds, the crew hear some moving words from Admiral Paris ending with, \"I want you all to know we're doing everything we can to bring you home.\"\n\nTo celebrate the knowledge that home is looking for them and regular communication will be possible in due time, the crew of \"Voyager\" hold a party in honor of Barclay. They discuss what little they know of him through his personnel record and declare him an honorary \"Voyager\" crewmember.\n\nBarclay and Troi shows:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1997377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997377", "title": "Christchurch Priory", "text": "Christchurch Priory\n\nChristchurch Priory is an ecclesiastical parish and former priory church in Christchurch in the English county of Dorset (formerly in Hampshire). \nIt is one of the longest parish churches in the country and is larger than 21 English Anglican Cathedrals.\n\nThe story of Christchurch Priory goes back to at least the middle of the 11th century, as Domesday says there was a priory of 24 secular canons here in the reign of Edward the Confessor. The Priory is on the site of an earlier church dating from 800AD.\nIn 1094 a chief minister of William II, Ranulf Flambard, then Dean of Twynham, began the building of a church. \nLocal legend has it that Flambard originally intended the church to be built on top of nearby St. Catherine's Hill but during the night all the building materials were mysteriously transported to the site of the present priory.\nAlthough in 1099 Flambard was appointed Bishop of Durham, work continued under his successors. A mid-12th century account recording the legend of the Christchurch Dragon indicates that by 1113 the new church was nearing completion under Dean Peter de Oglander. By about 1150 there was a basic Norman church consisting of a nave, a central tower and a quire extending eastwards from the crossing. \nIt was during this period that another legend originated, that of the miraculous beam, which is thought to have brought about the change in the name of the town from Twynham to the present day Christchurch, but in fact the two names both featured in a grant dated AD954 ('juxta opidum Twinam, id est, Cristescirce').\n\nIn 1150 Baldwin de Redvers, Lord of the Manor of Christchurch and Earl of Devon replaced the secular minster with an Augustinian priory. The de Redvers continued in their patronage of the priory for 150 years, until in 1293, Isabella de Fortibus, Countess of Devon (the last of the de Redvers line) sold her eastern estates to Edward I for about £4000. \nBy this action, Christchurch became a Royal Manor which meant that in 1303 it was required to provide and man a ship to aid the King's campaign against Scotland.\n\nIn 1330 Baron William de Montacute was granted the manor by Edward III and thus became the 1st Earl of Salisbury (Second Creation).\n\nIn the 13th century there was a frenzy of building: the nave aisles were vaulted, the clerestory was built, the Montacute Chapels replaced the Norman apse in the north transept and work began on the North Porch, notable for its unusually large size. One of the chapels became the Church of St. Thomas the Apostle, although the current building mostly dates from the 18th century.\n\nAlthough there is no documentary evidence relating to a central tower, the massive piers and arches at the corners of the transepts seem to indicate provision was made for one. \nA central tower would have been consistent with a Norman conventual church.\n\nWork continued in the 14th century. The nave roof reached its present height no later than 1350 and towards the end of the 14th century work on the Lady Chapel was started. It was completed in the early 15th century and its pendant vaulting is thought to be the first of its kind in England. Also in the 15th century, the original quire was replaced and extended so that it joined onto the new Lady Chapel. This may have been as a result of the Norman tower collapsing, but this is not certain. What is certain is that the tower was rebuilt between 1470 and 1480. The Draper and Salisbury chantry chapels were completed by 1529. By this time, the church looked much as it does today.\n\nMuch of what is known about Christchurch between the Norman Conquest and the mid-14th century comes from the Christchurch Priory Cartulary, which contains copies over 1,300 of the monastery’s most important documents. Most of it was written by just two clerks, one completing more than half before a second concluded the task in 1372. Further amendments and updates were added in the following decades.\n\nThe existence of the cartulary in the Priory library was recorded by John Leland shortly before the Dissolution, but its whereabouts in the decades after 1539 are uncertain. Almost a century later it was in the library of Sir Robert Cotton, a notable collector of medieval manuscripts. In 1753 the Cotton library collection was acquired by the newly founded British Museum, but the Christchurch Priory Cartulary was thought lost until it was discovered in an old cupboard in a garret of the Museum in 1837. It is today held in the British Library, where it is still catalogued by Sir Robert Cotton's filing system: Cotton MS Tiberius D.vi.\n\nEfforts to translate the whole Cartulary began in the late 20th century, but not until 2007 was this task completed by Katharine Hanna and published by Hampshire County Council.\n\nThe legend of the miraculous beam dates to the early 12thcentury. The story is that a beam was found to have been cut too short when it was hoisted into place. This would have been embarrassing for the carpenters since the wood was expensive and would be difficult to replace. There was however a mysterious carpenter who had worked and eaten alone. The following day the carpenters returned and found the beam was now fitted in place. The unknown carpenter was never seen again, and the story came to be that it was Jesus Christ who had intervened. The church became Christ's Church of Twynham in commemoration of the event. In time the town became Twynham-Christchurch and eventually shortened to Christchurch. The miraculous beam can be seen today and is located in the Priory’s ambulatory.\n\nThe Priory has 39 misericords, dating from three periods: 1250, 1350 and 1515. They show a mixture of mythological and folklore scenes, some of which appear to have been derived from Aesops fables. There are also some showing religious iconography, such as the emblems of St Mark and St Matthew.\n\nOn 28 November 1539, John Draper, the last prior of Christchurch, surrendered the priory, and it was dissolved. Prior Draper was granted a pension of £133-6s-8d and the use of Somerford Grange for life.\n\nThe conventual buildings of the priory were pulled down soon after the dissolution. The King had intended to demolish the church as well as the conventual buildings, but in response to a plea from the townspeople, supported by Prior Draper, he granted it, together with the churchyard, to the churchwardens and inhabitants of Christchurch to be used as the parish church in perpetuity on 23 October 1540, a grant that was confirmed on 12 February 1612 by James I.\n\nAfter the Dissolution a corporation known as 'The Sixteen' was formed which became responsible for the temporal and ecclesiastical affairs of the parish, with the vicar and churchwardens being the principal officers.\n\nIn 1788 Gustavus Brander gave the priory a pipe organ, which was installed on the quire screen. It was removed in 1848.\n\nIn 1819 lath and plaster vaulting was installed in the nave, but a year later the vaulting of the south transept was found to be unsafe and had to be dismantled. In the late 19th and early 20th centuries extensive repairs were carried out, which included the insertion of tie-rods in the tower and the underpinning of the nave and south choir aisle walls in 1906. In 1912 a new floor was laid in the nave consisting of 6\" of concrete, an inch of fine cement and wooden blocks on top.\n\nA monument to the poet Percy Bysshe Shelley and his wife Mary Wollstonecraft Shelley, created by the sculptor Henry Weekes, was erected in the Priory church by the poet's son in 1854, thirty-two years after his father's death. This monument was first offered to St Peter's Church, six miles away in Bournemouth, where Mary Shelley and other family members are buried. However, it was declined because of its size and possibly due to the unspoken disapproval of Shelley's reputation by the incumbent and churchwardens.\n\nThe War Memorial Chapel was dedicated in 1922.\n\nElectric lighting was installed in June 1934.\n\nIn 1976 Highcliffe Castle donated the glazing of the window in the south nave aisle, which had come originally from Jumièges Abbey in Normandy. The window depicts the lives of Saint Francis of Assisi and Saint Anne.\n\nIn 1999 a window celebrating the 900th anniversary of the priory was installed, which shows a starry night in which the Cross of Christ dominates, surrounded by a pattern of circles, the symbols of Eternity and Perfection, and the Chi-Rho monogram of Christ. Christchurch Priory, as its website puts it, is 'a living church' with daily services of matins and evensong, as well as being open every day except Christmas for visitors.\n\nIn the 21st century \"The Times\" described it as 'the least appreciated of the Great Churches of England'.\n\nThe Priory has a ring of 12 bells plus a 6th flat. The Bells are rung twice on Sundays and Monday nights and for extra services. They are in the Key of D and the Tenor (largest) weighs 30cwt (1½ Tons). The two oldest bells in the ring were cast in 1376 by John Rufford.\n\nSeven bells were recorded at the time of the dissolution of the Monasteries, and two of these were removed when the priory church became parochial in 1540. In 1633 this heavy five was converted into a lighter six by removing the tenor, recasting the 4th and adding two trebles. In 1755 Abel Rudhall augmented the ring to eight, and John Taylor & Co rehung the bells in a ten bell frame in 1885, replacing the 3rd at the same time. The bell they cast for Christchurch came out flat, and so a bell originally intended to be the 4th of a new ring of eight for The Saviour, Bolton, was supplied instead. The 1885 Taylor bells from The Saviour have now been transferred to St Peter's, Bolton, where they are the back eight of the present ring of twelve there.\n\nDespite a ten bell frame being installed at Christchurch in 1885, it was not until 1904 that the ring was augmented, the trebles being cast by Llewellins & James of Bristol. In 1931 the 6th was replaced, with the old bell (cast in 1663 by William Purdue III of Salisbury) being retained in the bellchamber. In 1932 the ring was augmented to twelve, with the 1904 trebles of ten being removed from the ring and placed, with their fittings, on a stand in the bell chamber and two new bells being cast to replace them. The old 6th of ten was scrapped in 1976, and in the same year the metal from the 1904 trebles of ten was used towards the casting of a flat 6th, with the inscriptions from the two bells being copied onto this. The new bell was cast and hung by Taylor's. More recently, in 1991, Whitechapel Bell Foundry overhauled the fittings and replaced the gudgeons and bearings.\n\nThe front four bells, the flat 6th and the 8th were cast with flat tops. The 5th and 6th have cable patterned canons, the 7th angular canons, and the remaining bells have had their canons removed.\n\nThe frame is of timber, and is basically that installed by Taylor's in 1885. A new foundation of RSJs was inserted beneath the frame in 1932, and two timber pits, which now contain the treble and 3rd, were added to the East side. A single cast iron lowsided pit for the flat 6th was added on the south side in 1976. The additions of 1932 and 1976 were both carried out by Taylor's.\n\nThe fittings are rather a mixture. The four trebles and the flat 6th have Taylor fittings contemporary with them and consisting of cast iron headstocks, ball bearings, traditional wheels, stays and sliders.. The back eight have timber stocks, presumably dating from either 1885 or 1904, traditional wheels by Llewellins & James and dating from 1904, and traditional stays and sliders. The bells were rehung on ball bearings by Taylor's in 1932, and the gudgeons and bearings were replaced by Whitechapel in 1991. There is also an Ellacombe chiming apparatus, which was installed by Llewellins & James in 1904.\n\nThe choir at the priory consists of a boys choir, a girls choir, and a men's choir. The children of the choir can earn medals as they gain experience and skill, the rank of chorister is: probationer - full choir member (given surplice) - light blue medal - dark blue medal - red medal - purple medal (Yellow for girls) - deputy (green medal) - head (green medal).\n\nThe choir sing three services during term time on Sundays:\n\nEucharist: 9:30- 10:30\n\nMatins: 11:30- 12:15\n\nEvensong: 6:30- 7:30\n\nThe men sing all three services while the two children's choirs alternate weekly between morning services and evening service (one week a choir will do eucharist and matins, the next week it will do evensong).\n\nOn occasion, such as Christmas and Easter services Both children's choirs will sing alongside the men.\n\nOn 17 July 1999 a new pipe organ was dedicated and installed in the south transept. It is an extensive rebuild by Nicholson of Worcester of the previous organ, weighing around 20 tonnes, with nearly 4,000 pipes, some of which are from the original 1788 organ. The new organ cost in excess of £500,000, of which £373,000 was provided by the Arts Council from the National Lottery Fund.\n\nA specification of the organ can be found on the National Pipe Organ Register\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1997379", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997379", "title": "Joel Bean", "text": "Joel Bean\n\nJoel Bean (December 16, 1825 – 1914) was a Quaker (Religious Society of Friends) minister whose name has been associated with a branch of Quakerism that some label “Beanite.”\n\nBean was born in Alton, New Hampshire. His parents are John and Jill Bean. He attended Friends Boarding School in Providence, Rhode Island. He moved to Iowa in 1853, where he taught school in West Branch.\n\nBean met Hannah Elliot Shipley from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, during a trip she took to Iowa. In 1859 they got married at the Orange Street Meeting House in Philadelphia and settled back in West Branch. They visited the Sandwich Islands (Hawaii) from 1861-1862 as Quaker ministers. Joel was appointed clerk of the Iowa Yearly Meeting (Iowa Yearly Meeting) in 1867, and the couple went on a ministry tour of Europe from 1872-1873.\n\nWhen they returned from the trip to Europe the Beans discovered that the revival that had been springing up among Friends in Iowa had progressed to a point that they could not approve. The revivalists insisted that people need to be “saved” and “sanctified,” which the Beans and others did not think was in accord with traditional Friends beliefs. The revivalists were also bringing into their meetings such things as programmed (planned) worship, more emotional worship, and paid pastors.\n\nThe Beans at first had welcomed the revival movement, believing that it was bringing life into the Society of Friends. But they saw that as it progressed it was departing from such Quaker ideas as the universality of the Inner light, the need for spiritual discipline and gradual growth rather than instant perfection, silent meetings for worship to wait on direct and personal guidance from God, and volunteer lay ministers and elders.\n\nEven though the Beans opposed the holiness movement, they would not join a group of Conservative Friends who left the Iowa Yearly Meeting in opposition to that movement. They disliked division and did not want to be part of it. After moving to San Jose, California, for the sake of Joel’s health and meeting with other Friends there who had been a part of the Iowa Yearly Meeting, they helped to establish the College Park Association of Friends. Then in 1893 the Iowa Yearly Meeting deposed them as ministers and in 1898 disowned (expelled) them from membership altogether.\n\nMany Quakers in England and New England were shocked and unhappy about the Beans’ disownment, as the Beans had proven themselves devout Friends and apt ministers. The New England Yearly Meeting accepted them as members and as ministers.\n\nJoel and Hannah Bean’s granddaughter Anna Cox Brinton was influential in the development of the Pacific Yearly Meeting from the earlier College Park Association.\n\n"}
{"id": "1997385", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997385", "title": "Tectospinal tract", "text": "Tectospinal tract\n\nIn humans, the tectospinal tract (or colliculospinal tract) is a nerve tract that coordinates head and eye movements. This tract is part of the extrapyramidal system and connects the midbrain tectum, and cervical regions of the spinal cord.\n\nIt is responsible for motor impulses that arise from one side of the midbrain to muscles on the opposite side of the body (contralateral). The function of the tectospinal tract is to mediate reflex postural movements of the head in response to visual and auditory stimuli.\n\nThe portion of the midbrain from where this tract originates is the superior colliculus, which receives afferents from the visual nuclei (primarily the oculomotor nuclei complex), then projects to the contralateral (decussating dorsal to the mesencephalic duct) and ipsilateral portion of the first cervical neuromeres of the spinal cord, the oculomotor and trochlear nuclei in the midbrain and the abducens nucleus in the caudal portion of the pons.\n\nThe tract descends to the cervical spinal cord to terminate in Rexed laminae VI, VII, and VIII to coordinate head, neck, and eye movements, primarily in response to visual stimuli.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1997390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997390", "title": "Maria Efrosinina", "text": "Maria Efrosinina\n\nMaria \"Masha\" Efrosinina (), (born 25 May 1979 in Kerch), is a Ukrainian television host. In 2018, Maria became the United Nations Population Fund Goodwill Ambassador .\n\nGraduating from a high school with a gold medal (an honour roll), Efrosinina enrolled into the Department of Foreign Languages in the Kiev University to graduate as an interpreter of the English and Spanish languages.\n\nIn 19 she debuted on the Pershyi Natsionalnyi in the program the \"Happy Bell\". In 2002 she received the \"Teletriumph\" prize in the nomination the Best TV show.\n\nShe co-presented the 50th Eurovision Song Contest alongside Pavlo Shylko, in 2005 from Kiev's Sports Palace, to a pan-European TV-audience of an estimated 150 million people.\nShe has also co-presented the UEFA Euro 2012 draw held at the Palace of Culture and Science in Warsaw, on 7 February 2010.\n\nShe presented, alongside Andriy Domansky, \"Fabrika Zirok\" (), the Ukrainian version of \"Star Academy\", on Novyi Kanal.\n\nOn 18 November 2010 Efrosinina placed the 77th place among the most influential females in Ukraine according to the Ukrainian magazine ().\n\nMasha got married in 2003 to Timur Khromayev, an Ossetian-Ukrainian, son of the president of Ukrainian basketball league Zurab Khromayev. \nTimur Khromayev is a graduate of the Finance Department of Union College (New York) with bachelors in economics. Timur Khromayev is a representative of a financial consulting company that cooperated with Naftogaz Ukrainy in its restructuring. Since 2002 he is director of his own investment company \"ARTA\" that works in a field of corporate financing, investment banking, brokerage, and assets management.\n\nHer sister Yelyzaveta, who is two years younger, married Andriy Yushchenko, son of the former Ukrainian president Viktor Yushchenko. She also graduated Kiev University (2009) department of psychology and now works as specialist in a child psychology. On 10 March 2010 the young Yushchenko family increased in size by a girl, Varvara.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1997391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997391", "title": "Kenny Wagner", "text": "Kenny Wagner\n\nWilliam Kenneth (Kinnie) Wagner (February 18, 1903 in Scott County, Virginia – March 9, 1958) commonly known as Kinnie Wagner (although Kennie and Kenny were also used) was a bootlegger in Mississippi, who murdered five people, including three lawmen. He escaped from custody numerous times, but ultimately died in prison.\n\nWagner left home at the age of fourteen and joined a circus. He became known as a trickshot artist. At the onset of Prohibition he made and sold moonshine. He was an imposing man, six feet three inches tall, weighing 260 pounds.\n\nHis troubles with the law began in 1925 when he was arrested in Lucedale, Mississippi, for stealing a watch. Awaiting trial, he overpowered the jailer and stole a horse. A posse tracked him to a shack in the woods, but he shot his way out, killing a deputy. He fled to his native mountains. Meeting his sister and friends on the banks of Holston River, near Kingsport, Tennessee, he engaged in a shootout with five local lawmen, killing two and wounding a third. Wagner fled first on horseback, then on foot. He surrendered to a storekeeper in Waycross, Virginia.\n\nFollowing a trial in Sullivan County ending with a death sentence verdict (including a temporary escape from the county jail), Wagner staged a successful escape from state prison. He fled to Mexico and became notorious for bank and train robbery but returned to the United States. He killed two men in barroom brawls and subsequently surrendered to a female sheriff in Arkansas. The two men whom he killed were Will Carper, and his brother, Sam Carper, and they were at Sam's home, not in a bar, and they were unarmed. The sheriff was Lillie Barber, widow of a slain sheriff. She refused to try Wagner, because in Arkansas, murder in cold blood was a capital offense, and she fell in love with him.\n\nMississippi, Tennessee, and Arkansas wanted him for murder. Since his first killing was in Mississippi, he was tried there and in 1926 was sentenced to life to be served at Parchman Farm. His first escape attempt was foiled by an informant. However, he was allowed to become an armed trustee and head trainer of the prison's bloodhounds. He tracked escapees alone, armed on horseback. In 1940, he escaped but was located three years later near his old Virginia home. Returned to Parchman, he was again a model prisoner until 1948 when he walked off.\n\nHis most notable escape was his last attempt and involved a clever trick that was not discovered until Wagner was outside the prison walls. He had been made a trustee whose job it was to tend the dogs at the prison. He quickly realized the dogs were the means by which the prison guards would track him if he were to escape again. He therefore trained the dogs not to track him by whipping them if they followed his scent.\n\nWagner remained at large in Wahalak, Mississippi for several years afterward under the alias \"Big Jim,\" and was subsequently placed on the FBI Ten Most Wanted Fugitives list. In 1956, he was recaptured after a jealous rival informed law enforcement officials of his residence at the house of a female friend.\n\nSeriously ill, he stated \"I am very happy to be going back to Parchman.\" He died there in 1958.\n\nThere are several folksongs and ballads about Wagner's escapades. There are several books written about the Mississippi outlaw. And he has also been covered in comics and pulp magazines.\n\nThe East Tennessee and Southwest Virginia stories about Kinnie Wagner propose a far different picture of the gunslinger. Even the local newspaper \"The Kingsport Times News\" in Kingsport, Tennessee maps out the events that led to Wagner's initial crime, intended arrest, and eventual capture very differently from their Mississippi counterparts.\n\nFolklorists have explained that Wagner had been cast into the stereotype of the Southern or Western outlaw: chivalrous to women, generous to the poor, a free desperado.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1997394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997394", "title": "Coyote (comics)", "text": "Coyote (comics)\n\nCoyote is an American comic book series created by Steve Englehart and Marshall Rogers.\n\nThe characters first appeared in \"Eclipse Magazine\" #2-8. It would later be reprinted in a color trade paperback, \"I Am Coyote\".\n\nAfterwards, a new comic book series started at Marvel Comics Epic Comics line, that ran 16 issues. It was notable for the first published work of Todd McFarlane. According to Epic editor-in-chief Archie Goodwin, artist Steve Leialoha's departure after issue #2 caused deadline problems that the series never fully recovered from, leading to its early cancellation.\n\nThe original Eclipse & Epic series has been reprinted in a series of collections from Image Comics:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1997396", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997396", "title": "Art Nehf", "text": "Art Nehf\n\nArthur Neukom Nehf (July 31, 1892 – December 18, 1960) was an American baseball pitcher. He played 15 seasons in Major League Baseball for the Boston Braves (1915–1919), New York Giants (1919–1926), Cincinnati Reds (1926–1927), and the Chicago Cubs (1927–1929). He was left-handed, and 176 pounds when he made his debut in 1915.\n\nNehf was born in Terre Haute, Indiana, and attended the Rose Polytechnic Institute in Terre Haute. His parents were Charles T. Nehf and Wilhelmina Neukom. Art married Elizabeth B. May on November 1, 1916.\n\nBesides finishing with a 184–120 record and a 3.20 ERA in 451 games, Nehf had 182 complete games and 28 shutouts (30 including postseason) in 319 starts. He had 13 career saves and also picked up a total of 844 strike outs in 2707 2/3 innings pitched.\n\nSome years, he pitched as a starter only, and some as a relief pitcher and a starter, but he was always solid in both roles, earning a reputation around the majors as an always-consistent pitcher.\n\nNehf had a .210 career batting average with 8 home runs and 76 RBIs. Of his 8 home runs, 2 came in one game in 1924. It was his only multiple home run season. Art Nehf was the last pitcher to have 3 hits in a World Series game (Game 1~October 4, 1924) until Orel Hershiser tied that record in 1988 (Game 2~October 16).\n\nNehf came up with the Braves in 1915, and frequented the leaderboards throughout his time with them; he led the league in complete games with 28 in 1918, and showed up in the top 10 in wins, three times, including the year that he was traded to the Giants mid-season. In 1917, Nehf had what is generally thought of as his best season with the Braves, when he went 17-8 with a 2.16 ERA, pitching very consistently, and completing 17 of his 23 starts, with five shutouts, while also finishing seven games on the year. He also had his career-high in strike outs that year with 101, the only time he had more than 100 strike outs.\n\nNehf was traded to the Giants for four players and cash on August 15, 1919. He won a career-high 21 games in 1920, his first full year with the Giants. Nehf pitched in four consecutive World Series with the Giants: 1921, 1922, 1923 and 1924. He was the last man to win back to back clinching games in the World Series in 1921 and 1922. In 1924, he defeated Walter Johnson in 12 innings in the WS opener, but the Giants lost to the Washington Senators that year. The Giants won in 1921 and 1922 with the help of Nehf, who had an all-time World Series record of 4–4 with an ERA of 2.16 in twelve games, and nine starts, with six complete games. He had 28 strikeouts all-time in the World Series. Nehf also participated in the 1929 World Series with the Cubs in his last year, as the Cubs lost to the Philadelphia Athletics.\n\nNehf won 107 games with the Giants, while he lost only 60. After many solid, and sometimes great, seasons with the Giants and then being traded to Cincinnati, and then to Chicago, most thought Nehf's career was virtually over. But he managed to put up one more very good year in 1928 with the Cubs. He went 13-7 with a still very low, 2.65 ERA. That year, he was also involved in a very strange and controversial play against his former team, the Giants. With the Giants in a tight pennant race against the St. Louis Cardinals, their loss in the 1st game of a doubleheader on September 27, 1928, was made all the more controversial. New York's Shanty Hogan hit a ball back to Nehf who threw to third base to get the runner, but the runner Andy Reese was off with the crack of the bat and was already at home plate, knocking over catcher Gabby Hartnett. Hartnett grabbed the runner to keep from falling, and as Hartnett held him, Reese was tagged out by the Cubs third baseman. The Giants bench erupted, but umpire Bill Klem ruled Reese out. The subsequent protest was turned down despite clear pictures showing Reese being held back. The Giants went on to lose the pennant to the Cards by two games. Coincidentally, the Cubs were two games behind that.\n\nNehf also was involved in one of the strangest innings in World Series history. Charlie Root was the Cubs' starting pitcher for Game 4 of the 1929 World Series at Shibe Park and was cruising along with an 8-0 lead against the Philadelphia Athletics. In the seventh inning, Nehf was brought in from the bullpen after the Athletics cut the lead to 8-4. The first batter he faced, Mule Haas, hit a fly ball that Hack Wilson lost in the sun. It ended up a three-run inside-the-park homer for Haas, and the A's went on to a 10-run inning. The Cubs lost the game 10-8 and lost the World Series two days later.\n\nNehf died of cancer in his home in Phoenix, Arizona in 1960.\n\n\nThe varsity baseball field at Rose-Hulman Institute of Technology (formerly Rose Polytechnic Institute) is named in Nehf's honor. Art Nehf Field has served as the site for the 2005 and 2006 NCAA Division III Mideast Regional.\n\nInducted into Indiana Baseball Hall of Fame in 1989, (the 11th group)\n\n"}
{"id": "1997397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997397", "title": "Big Wednesday", "text": "Big Wednesday\n\nBig Wednesday is a 1978 American coming of age film directed by John Milius. Written by Milius and Dennis Aaberg, it is loosely based on their own experiences at Malibu. The picture stars Jan-Michael Vincent, William Katt, and Gary Busey as California surfers facing life and the Vietnam War against the backdrop of their love of surfing.\n\nRaised in Southern California, Milius made \"Big Wednesday\" as an homage to the time he spent in Malibu during his youth. Milius and his friends George Lucas and Steven Spielberg famously agreed to exchange a percentage point of \"Big Wednesday\", \"Star Wars\" and \"Close Encounters of the Third Kind\" prior to the release of the three films throughout 1977-1978. Spielberg in particular was certain that \"Big Wednesday\" was going to be a box office hit, opining it was like \"\"American Graffiti\" meets \"Jaws\"\", two of the decade's most successful films.\n\nThe film tells the story of three young friends whose passion in life is surfing. The friends include: Matt Johnson (Jan-Michael Vincent), a self-destructive type who has a devil-may-care attitude; Jack Barlowe (William Katt), the calm and responsible one of the bunch; and Leroy \"The Masochist\" Smith (Gary Busey), whose nickname tells a lot about his personality.\n\nTheir surfing lives are traced from the summer of 1962 to their attempts of dodging the Vietnam War draft in 1965 (including faking insanity, homosexuality, and all manner of medical ailments), and to the end of their innocence in 1968 when one of their friends is killed in Vietnam. The three make the difficult transition to adulthood with parties, surf trips, marriage, and the war.\n\nThe friends reunite years later, after Barlowe has served in Vietnam, for the \"Great Swell of '74.\" With this reunion, the transition in their lives becomes the end point of what the 1960s meant to so many as they see that the times have changed, and what was a time of innocence is gone forever.\n\nMilius wrote the script with his friend and fellow surfer, journalist Denny Aaberg. It was inspired by a short story Aaberg had published in a 1974 \"Surfer Magazine\" entitled \"No Pants Mance\", and the lives of a group of friends who used to surf with Aaberg and Milius including Lance Carson.\n\nIn writing the script Milius and Aaberg interviewed a lot of their friends from the 1960s. \"It was a special time,\" said Aaberg of the 1960s. \"Surfing was a brand new sport with its own aristocracy.\"\n\nAaberg says \"it took about a year to write\" the script. \"We very much want it to be authentic. That's important to me because I'm a real surfer. So's John.\"\n\n\"A lot of things [in the film] happened to me,\" said Milius. \"A lot of the characters are me and in another sense none of them are me. It took an awful long time to write the script. It is so very personal. It's about growing up and relationships and the surf is the exotic background. We all knew it was special, we knew it wouldn't last. And we knew how good we had it. Surfing is a strange thing. A lot of people never leave it. You always feel you owe it something. It was a central experience in our lives. It's all changed now.\"\n\nMilius described the film in a 1976 interview:\nIt's a surfing HOW GREEN WAS MY VALLEY: the loss of an aristocracy, the end of an era, the passing of a more innocent time to a more corrupt and complex one-all growing up is the passing of innocence. It's based on the lives of three friends ten years ago. It's about their friendship, and the value of friendship. I don't think that kids today have the same kind of values that these people had then; I don't see movies being made about that kind of thing. This movie is about friendship: surfing is just the background. It's about love of a place, love of a time, love of your human contacts, and the loss of those things. It's the most personal film I'll probably ever make, and I figured I ought to do it now, before I get too far away from it. At least half the people who participated are dead now. The attrition rate among surfers is very high. A lot of them died in Vietnam and OD'd on dope.\n\"Because I surfed, I'm the only director in the world who could have made his picture,\" said Milius. \"And I can tell you, it's so hard, no one will ever make it again.\"\n\nMilius and producer Feitshans had met at American International Pictures, where they worked on \"Dillinger\" (1973). They formed their own company, The A Team. This was their first production.\n\nThey obtained finance from Warner Bros in June 1976. In August Milius announced \"Big Wednesday\" would be postponed because the script was not ready and he would instead make \"Extreme Prejudice\". \"I've been working on \"Big Wednesday\" a long time,\" Milius said. \"I don't want to put it off any further but I don't want to work on it until its ready either.\"\n\nHowever Milius changed his mind again. \"John has fallen in love and is getting married and that's opened up this other side of him,\" said star William Katt in October 1977. \"He was going to do another gun and guts macho fight film but he decided to do this; he decided he needed this in his life.\"\n\nMilius later recalled:\nWhen I did \"Big Wednesday\" my first impressions were that I was going to do this coming-of-age story with Arthurian overtones about surfers that nobody took seriously, their troubled lives made larger than life by their experience with the sea. And that’s what the movie is. It never strayed from that. There was a lot of pressure to make it more like \"Animal House\", but the movie has a huge following now because it did have loftier ambitions. It wasn’t just a story about somebody trying to ride the biggest wave or something. That’s not enough.\n\nThe leads were played by Jan Michael Vincent, Gary Busey and William Katt. \"It was the most personal film I'd done,\" said Katt. \"I'd lived that life since I was ten.\"\n\nMilius at one stage intended to play the role of the Bear himself. \"But I couldn't,\" he said. \"The part is simply too big for me to do.\"\n\nBarbara Hale, mother of William Katt, plays a small role in the film. A 1940s film star but best known as Della Street from the long-running \"Perry Mason\" television series, this was Hale's last appearance in a feature film.\n\nThe surfing scenes used in the finale to \"Big Wednesday\" were not filmed in California, where the film is set, but at Sunset Beach in Pupukea, Hawaii.\n\nOther filming locations included El Paso, Texas; Hollister Ranch near Santa Barbara; Surfrider Beach (in Malibu); Ventura, California; and La Libertad, El Salvador.\n\n\"What I've got to watch out for is getting lost in the surf again,\" said Milius during filming. \"It's so alluring, so easy to get lost in. I worry I might lose sight of the characters. Unlike any other film that has been made about surfing, in this one the characters and not the waves are the most important.\"\n\nAnthea Sylbert was an executive at Warners at the time. She later called the film \"a classic example of an egomaniacal insane man going over budget and not listening to anyone. I mean, they were all just waiting for the Big Wave. Give me a break!\"\n\nMilius invented the Bear brand of surfboard as a fictional brand to be used in the movie, and even had surfboards made and arranged for a Californian designer to create a logo. The logo, a red diamond with a bear in it, features prominently throughout the movie, on shop windows, T-shirts, car windows and on surfboards. The first boards were shaped in 1977, by famous board shaper, Bill Hamilton. The international distribution of the movie promoted the Bear Label worldwide, with people wanting boards with the bear logo. The brand morphed into an actual successful company after the release of the movie, producing hundreds of boards, and is still active today, with various people producing bear branded boards in different countries.\n\nThe film premiered in wide release in the United States on May 26, 1978.\n\nThe picture was screened at various film festivals, including: the Davao City Film Festival, Philippines; the Turin Film Festival, Italy; and others.\n\nA 20th Anniversary screening (which included cast and crewmembers) took place at the Newport Film Festival in 1998.\n\n\"Big Wednesday\" was a box office flop upon its release, and was quickly pulled from theatres after taking in only $4.5 million. William Katt explained in a 1979 interview with Roger Ebert a year after the film's release that he believed the movie's failure was due to the marketing focusing only on the fight scenes and surfing angle.\n\nJanet Maslin, film critic for \"The New York Times\", did not like the performances of the actors and wrote, \"The surprise is not that Mr. Milius has made such a resoundingly awful film, but rather that he's made a bland one...the movie often seems even more uneventful than material like this need make it, and Mr. Milius's attention to his actors focuses more closely on their pectorals than on their performances. He encourages such stiffness in his players that Barbara Hale, for instance, is quite unconvincing as Mr. Katt's mother. This is a \"faux pas\" of no mean eminence; after all, Miss Hale actually is Mr. Katt's mother.\"\n\nThe staff at \"Variety\" wrote, \"A rubber stamp wouldn't do for John Milius. So he took a sledgehammer and pounded Important all over \"Big Wednesday.\" This film about three Malibu surfers in the 1960s has been branded major statement and it's got Big Ideas about adolescence, friendship and the 1960s.\"\n\nThe review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes reports a 64% approval rating based on 11 reviews, with a weighted average of 6.5/10.\n\nMilius later said the film was \"sort of a numb spot in my life. It was a very personal film and it really tore me up when it was attacked in such a way that no one saw it.\"\n\nQuentin Tarantino later wrote while he preferred \"Milius’ directorial debut “Dillinger,” it’s hard to argue against the idea that his surfer epic “Big Wednesday” isn’t his classic... Except for “Big Wednesday,” none of the Milius-directed films have a satisfying conclusion. And the climactic showdown between the heroic trio and the monster waves is so good it makes up for the rest (the trio’s “Wild Bunch” inspired walk to destiny is by far Milius’ finest cinematic moment)... More than any other movie Milius directed, “Big Wednesday” contains the joy of filmmaking (he waited his whole career to make this movie). It also illustrates the problems with many of his other movies. Which by contrast seem to contain the frustration of filmmaking.\"\n\n\nNominations\n\n"}
{"id": "1997405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997405", "title": "Sheng Long", "text": "Sheng Long\n\nSheng Long is a character hoax related to the \"Street Fighter\" series, created by \"Electronic Gaming Monthly\" (\"EGM\") as an April Fools' prank in 1992 (in an issue published mid-February). The joke, based upon a mistranslation that suggested the existence of a character named Sheng Long in the Capcom fighting game \"Street Fighter II\", described a method to fight the character in the game. After other publications reprinted the details as fact without verifying the authenticity, the Sheng Long hoax spread worldwide. As a result of discussion revolving around the possibility of the character's appearance in \"Street Fighter III\" during the game's development, \"EGM\" revisited the joke in 1997, printing an updated version of the hoax for the title while establishing a backstory and appearance for the character in the process.\n\nAs a character and a hoax, Sheng Long has been described as one of the most famous and well-known legends related to video gaming by publications such as GameDaily and GameSpot. The hoax influenced the creation of both Akuma and Gouken as characters in the \"Street Fighter\" series, with the former appearing in \"Super Street Fighter II Turbo\" as a secret boss. Fan appeal for the character affected later Capcom titles, with public requests for the inclusion of Sheng Long in an actual video game leading to the consideration of his inclusion in the \"\" video game and years later resulting in the appearance of Gouken as both a secret boss and playable character in \"Street Fighter IV\".\n\nThe name Sheng Long comes from a mistranslated portion of the name of a special move performed by the series' main character, Ryu; the characters \"shō ryū\" (昇龍 \"rising dragon\") from \"Shōryūken\" (昇龍拳), Ryu's flying uppercut, are \"shēng lóng\" in Chinese pinyin. This was carried into one of Ryu's quotes to defeated opponents in the English localization of the 1991 arcade game \"Street Fighter II\", changing the Japanese quote to \"You must defeat Sheng Long to stand a chance.\" As a result, players were given the impression that Ryu was referring to a person instead of the attack.\n\nThe Super Nintendo Entertainment System (SNES) port of \"Street Fighter II\", released shortly after the April Fools' prank, changed the translation to \"\"You must defeat my Dragon Punch to stand a chance.\"\" However, the English instruction manual for the SNES \"Street Fighter II\" referred to \"Master Sheng Long\" as Ryu and Ken's teacher. Instruction manuals for later ports to the SNES and Sega Mega Drive consoles replaced all references to Sheng Long by referring to Ryu and Ken as disciples of the \"Shotokan school of karate\". Sheng Long would later make an appearance in the 1993 Malibu Comics as Ryu and Ken's master, Shenlong was poisoned Ryu's clone created by M. Bison, the fighting Nida accuses Ryu of having poisoned the master. A character named Gouken was later introduced in Masaomi Kanzaki's 1993 \"Street Fighter II\" manga as Ryu and Ken's sensei, and was adapted into the series' backstory in \"Super Street Fighter II Turbo\".\n\nThe mistranslation spawned rumors about the existence of a Sheng Long character in the game, and players sent letters to video game publications attempting to confirm the character's existence. In the April 1992 issue of the video game magazine \"Electronic Gaming Monthly\", a method was \"revealed\" to reach Sheng Long in the arcade game. The reporter gave an \"Honorable Mention\" to \"W.A. Stokins\" (\"waste tokens\") of \"Fuldigen, HA\" (\"fooled again, ha\") and claimed that the character could be found if a player using Ryu did not let the character suffer any damage during the entire game, and upon reaching the final match against M. Bison could neither hit Bison nor let him inflict any damage until the time limit expired, thus ending the round in a draw. After repeating this for ten consecutive rounds Sheng Long would then appear out of nowhere and throw Bison off of the edge screen and out of the way. The game's on-screen timer would then stop at 99 seconds, resulting in a \"fight to the death\" between Ryu and Sheng Long.\n\nSheng Long was stated to feature the special moves of all the fighters, such as Chun-Li's \"Spinning Bird Kick\" and Sagat's \"Tiger Shot\", but inflict more damage. In addition, the character was supposedly faster than any other fighter in the game, negating the pause between projectile attacks. Other attacks mentioned included an air-based throw attack and a \"Dragon Punch\" shown to consume his fist in flames to represent his greater power.\n\nThe joke became an international sensation when publications from Europe, Hong Kong and other countries reprinted the trick without verifying it or asking \"EGM\"s permission. A Hong Kong comic based on \"Street Fighter II\" by Jademan Comics altered their story to include the character. Players tried unsuccessfully for weeks to unlock Sheng Long, until it was revealed in the December issue of \"EGM\" that it was a hoax, with the staff stating they were surprised at the worldwide coverage the joke had received.\n\nDuring the development of \"Street Fighter III\", fans discussed the prospect of the character's inclusion in the new title. \"EGM\" perpetuated the hoax again in 1997 by claiming that Sheng Long was in the game, providing character artwork depicting his appearance and new screenshots. Unlike the first article, they did not finish their explanation of how to reach him, ending the article with \"To reach him, you will need at least six perfects and...\" Additionally, the words \"April Fools\" were spelled out in the first letter of the first ten sentences of the article.\n\nThe character's design was expanded on greatly in the article; Sheng Long was now stated to be the American name for the character Gouken, much like Akuma is the American name for Gouki (which would appear in the \"\" revision of the game). His profile listed in the article paralleled Gouken's, but instead of Akuma killing him he was knocked into a raging river. The result gave him a scar over his eye, and a desire to get revenge on his brother. To this end, he revived several \"killing techniques\" of his fighting style, which included an air version of Akuma's red fireball that knocked his opponent down, a double ground high-low \"Hadouken\", an unblockable \"Denjin-Shinryuu-Ken\" super attack that would shock the opponent, an air rapid \"Hadouken\" super attack akin to a move used by Ibuki, and a third super attack intended to be a stronger version of the \"Shun Goku Satsu\".\n\n\"EGM\" reported that despite this being the second Sheng Long joke, it was convincing enough that Capcom of America staff called Capcom of Japan asking why they had not been told that the character was in the game.\n\nSheng Long is cited as an influential factor for the \"Street Fighter\" series, earning mention in articles such as GameDaily's \"Top 20 Street Fighter Characters of All Time\" list, in which the character placed nineteenth despite not being an actual character. IGN placed it second on their list of the \"Top Ten Gaming April Fools' Pranks\", noting it as having the biggest impact of all of \"Electronic Gaming Monthly\"s April Fools jokes. UGO.com named it one of video gaming's greatest urban legends, noting its impact upon the series' success. Capcom's community manager Seth Killian described the hoax as \"a part of gaming history\", comparing him to the Konami Code. However, GamesRadar listed it as one of the video game legends that they never want to hear again, stating that while it was a good prank at first, Sheng Long has gone from \"sly wink to the fans\" to \"Borat t-shirt.\" The rumor is often credited with inspiring the creation of Akuma, a character who debuted as a hidden final boss in \"Super Street Fighter II Turbo\", due to their similarities, although Capcom has never confirmed nor denied this. As in the hoax, the process of fighting Akuma would require certain achievements met during the game, with Akuma interrupting the final match of the game between the player and M. Bison. The similarity was nodded at in the high-definition remake of \"Super Street Fighter II Turbo\", in which an Xbox 360 Achievement titled \"Sheng Long is in Another Castle\" (which is a pun of a well-known phrase in the early \"Super Mario Bros.\" games: \"\"Thank You Mario! But our princess is in another castle!\"\") could be earned for defeating Akuma in the game's arcade mode. In the 2012 Disney movie \"Wreck-it Ralph\", a piece of background graffiti reads, \"Sheng Long was here!\"\n\nSheng Long is mentioned four times in the 1995 arcade game \"\" in the endings for Ryu, Ken, and Akuma. In each, he is stated as the master of Ryu and Ken and Akuma's brother, but never stated as dead. Despite the repeated mention, Sheng Long does not appear in the game. On January 30, 2007 the game's designer, Alan Noon, appeared on Shoryuken.com's forum and discussed aspects of the game cut during development, among them a playable Sheng Long character.\n\nAccording to Noon, talk had circulated about adding extra characters that were not in the film. As the Sheng Long hoax and Akuma's debut in \"Super Street Fighter II Turbo\" were fairly recent at the time, the designers asked for Capcom's permission to add both characters into the game. Capcom approved the addition of Akuma, but denied the inclusion of Sheng Long. However, Capcom later unexpectedly approved the addition of Sheng Long. Noon designed Sheng Long's appearance for the title, giving him black gi pants and a long, green, padded/quilted, sleeveless Gi style top which was tied off with a black beltmandarin style, long white braided hair, Fu Manchu moustache, a thick black ribbon over his eyes due to being blinded by Akuma and one hand taking the form of a dragon's claw, described as a result of his power being so advanced, that he began to physically manifest dragon like attributes. Capcom approved the design, and Luis Mangubat, an artist from the development team (who would later work at Midway Games), posed as Sheng Long. However, the character was left unfinished because of time constraints.\n\nIn an interview in the January 2008 Issue of \"Electronic Gaming Monthly\", \"Street Fighter IV\" producer Yoshinori Ono stated \"Let's just say that [jokes] that your magazine have reported in the past might find their way into the game as fan service.\" Executive editor Shane Bettenhausen took this to mean the appearance of Sheng Long in \"Street Fighter IV\", though added that if the character did appear in the game, it would be Gouken. When asked in a later interview by 1UP.com regarding the possibility of Sheng Long's appearance in the title, Ono replied \"Are you coming to the Tokyo Game Show? How about you ask me that question again then.\" Capcom later revealed Gouken as a character in \"Street Fighter IV\", with Ono stating in an interview with \"Play\" magazine that his inclusion in the title was in response to fans requesting Sheng Long's presence in the game.\n\nOn the first of April 2008, Capcom announced Sheng Long as a \"secret, unlock-able character\" in their Japanese development blog for \"Street Fighter IV\" and later posted in their official US blog accompanied with a silhouette of the character. The post took the tone of a Capcom PR representative trying to announce a character without giving away too many details, hinting that \"Sheng Long is Ryu's...\" then holding back and saying to wait for an official character announcement. Similar to the original \"EGM\" joke, the post lists the method to unlock him as requiring the player to win every round as Ryu without taking any damage whatsoever and then perform his \"Shoryuken\" move during the final boss fight. Reception to the joke the third time was negative, and included criticism from 1UP.com. The following day, the Japanese website confirmed that it was indeed a joke, and explained the origin of Sheng Long while adding \"Sheng-Long is still now and always will be, truly a character of legend.\"\n\nIn the release version of the game, Ryu's victory speech is correctly translated as \"You must defeat my Shoryuken to stand a chance.\" This line would later be quoted directly in Ryu's character reveal trailer in \"Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS and Wii U\", furthering its legacy.\n\nIn March 2017, 25 years after the \"EGM\" article was published, Sheng Long was given a \"joke\" profile in the Shadaloo Combat Research Institute part of the Capcom Fighters Network website, dedicated to profiles of all characters present throughout the \"Street Fighter\" lore. The profile satirizes the Sheng Long rumor, stating that he became a living legend, he appears after consecutive draw games, his moves are impossible to counterattack and always register as counter hits, and that anyone that sees him will die after 24 hours. His appearance resembles the artistic rendition \"EGM\" made for the \"Street Fighter III\" prank, except instead of long hair and a beard, this version of Sheng Long sports a long mohawk and a moustache forked upwards, in a manner reminiscent of a trident.\n\nIn keeping with tradition, the profile also lists an exaggerated moveset for him. Apart from the Hadoken (which he performs with one hand), Shoryuken (which he can also do in mid-air) and Tatsumaki Senpukyaku, he can also use the , a throw that instantly defeats his opponent, , an ability that allows him to resurrect himself indefinitely, , which makes his opponent very angry, and a \"Critical Art\", the , which lets him change into different characters. The latter move seems to also poke fun at the many unofficial hacks of \"\", most notably \"Street Fighter II': Rainbow Edition\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1997407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997407", "title": "Criminalization", "text": "Criminalization\n\nCriminalization or criminalisation, in criminology, is \"the process by which behaviors and individuals are transformed into crime and criminals\". Previously legal acts may be transformed into crimes by legislation or judicial decision. However, there is usually a formal presumption in the rules of statutory interpretation against the retrospective application of laws and only the use of express words by the legislature may rebut this presumption. The power of judges to make new law and retrospectively criminalise behaviour is also discouraged. In a less overt way, where laws have not been strictly enforced, the acts prohibited by those laws may also undergo \"de facto\" criminalization through more effective or committed legal enforcement. The process of criminalization takes place through societal institutions including schools, the family, and the criminal justice system.\n\nThere has been some uncertainty as to the nature and extent of the contribution to be made by the victims of crime. But, as Garkawe (2001) indicates, the relationship between victimology and criminology has become problematic. The concern is that, within the dialectic of Right Realism and Left Realism, a focus on the victim promotes rights selectively for certain victims, and advocates the assumption that some victim rights are more important than competing rights or values in society. For example, an Islamic feminist might seek consistency of treatment for women as victims and, therefore, demand the decriminalization of abortion, adultery, and seduction (Zina is a Hudud offense in sharia law), and the criminalization of domestic violence and sexual harassment.\n\nIn formal academically published theory, the real ruling class of a society reaches a temporary view on whether certain acts or behavior are harmful or criminal. Historically this one theory will be modified by scientific, medical evidence, by political change, and the criminal justice system may or may not treat those matters as crimes.\n\nConversely, when local politics determines that it is no longer a crime, they may be decriminalized. For example, Recommendation No. R (95) 12 adopted by the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe on the management of criminal justice, advocates that crime policies such as decriminalization, depenalisation or diversion, and mediation should be adopted wherever possible. But the law and order debate between right and left politicians is often superficial and unscientific, formulating policies based on their appeal to an uniformed electorate rather than properly conducted research.\n\nSeveral principles may underpin decisions about criminalization. These include the \"de minimis\" principle, that of the minimum criminalization. Under this principle, the general harm principle fails to consider the possibility of other sanctions and the effectiveness of criminalization as a chosen option. Those other sanctions include civil courts, laws of tort and regulation. Having criminal remedies in place is seen as a \"last resort\" since such actions often infringe personal liberties – incarceration, for example, prevents the freedom of movement. In this sense, law making that places a greater emphasis on human rights. Most crimes of direct actions (murder, rape, assault, for example) are generally not affected by such a stance, but it does require greater justification in less clear cases.\n\nThe policy of \"social defense\" can be seen as an opposing view. It argues that criminalization is used against \"any form of activity which threatens good order or is thought reprehensible\". The minimization principle may unwittingly prevent the adaptation of the law to new situations. In general, worldwide policy makers have created a myriad of smaller offences, in contradiction to the minimization principle and more in keeping with the social defence.\n\nLeading criminal law philosophers, such as Dennis Baker and Joel Feinberg have argued that conduct should only be criminalized when it is fair to do so. In particular, such theorists assert that objective reasons are needed to demonstrate that it is fair to criminalize conduct in any given case. The commonly cited objective justification for invoking the criminal law is harmful to others, but it cannot deal with all situations. For example, people are not necessarily harmed by public nudity. Feinberg suggests that offence to others also provides an objective reason for invoking the criminal law, but it clearly does not as offence is determined according to conventional morality. Prostitution is another grey area, as some countries allow it in different forms, and it is hard to say whether or not it specifically harms the public in general. One argument may be that prostitution perpetuates the spread of sexually transmitted diseases, including HIV/AIDS, and therefore harms the public which partakes in the act of prostitution. However, the legalization of prostitution would change the way it is regulated, and law enforcement could find a way to prevent the spread of sexually transmitted disease, thus eliminating the health issue and the question of the morality of the profession would be weakened.\n\nPeople experience a range of physical and social injuries in different contexts which will vary according to the level of economic and political development of their country. Some will be injured out of poverty and malnutrition, others by violence which might stem from a major conflict such as war or from the personal violence in a robbery. The environment may be damaged by pollution, there may be hazards at work. Many of these sources of injury will be ignored while the state may delegate powers of control to a number of different agencies within an international framework where supranational agencies and human rights organisations may offer assistance in responding to the causes of those injuries.\n\nThe extent to which behaviours considered morally wrong in a given jurisdiction should be criminalized is controversial. Lying or breaking promises are not in general criminalised, for example. Patrick Devlin believed that moral behaviour was essential in maintaining the cohesion of a state, and so lawmakers should be entitled to criminalise immoral behaviour. However, opponents of this approach typically suggest use of a harm principle only and that immorality is not a reason in itself since outcomes of such activity can be used to come to a conclusion alone. Devlin's argument uses the disgust of the general public as a definition of morality; however, issues involving prejudice have shown this to be flawed and opponents push for a much stricter definition if this approach is to be used. Devlin suggested a jury to give an indication of immoral behaviour. As well as prejudice, views were likely to vary widely on issues such as homosexuality, contraception and other matters, particularly those influenced by religion. Agreement would be hard to find. Other opposition has been from liberal groups which favour approaches which maximise individual rights. A moral basis for criminalization would be paternalistic, thereby contrasting with personal autonomy. The European Convention of Human Rights, in the most part supporting individual rights from government interferences, still includes a provision for interference \"for the protection of health and morals\" such as legally requiring seat belts to be worn (in some jurisdictions) are hard to justify if an individualistic approach is taken, since, if public health provision is ignored, little harm is caused to others.\n\nJoseph Raz argues that the state cannot and should not enforce morality; rather, any attempt to limit individual autonomy should be done only to limit harm. Certain moral ideals may be justifiable if they extend autonomy. If the immoral conduct of others impinges on someone else's autonomy, then that can be legislated against. There are some groups for whom the principle of autonomy is weakened: those under an age of majority and those people who are impaired by, for example, a mental disorder. In general, these people are protected from activities with significant consequences, if they are not in a position to make reasoned decisions themselves. This may involve the criminalization of under-age drinking, smoking, gambling and sexual activities. Such criminalization is rarely challenged.\n\nIn British law, a distinction between public and private acts was made in the Wolfenden report, which examined sexual activities (particularly homosexuality and prostitution). Some acts would effectively become legal within private settings, but illegal in public settings. The justification for this was the concept of shock or offensive to the public. Such a line was favoured by Joel Feinberg, who argued that it was a good reason in support of legislation if it effectively prevented \"serious offence\" to persons other than the actor. Philosophers such as Feinberg struggle to quantify the ideology behind the illegality of acts which in another setting would be acceptable (that acts themselves not causing harm, for example), for example nudity. Since such acts publicly are made illegal on the basis of shock, then whether to criminalise depends on a shifting body of public opinion, which varies from place to place and from time to time. The concept of \"insult\" rather than \"offensive\" may be more specific.\n\nCommon law does not often find an actor liable for omission – failing to do something required by the law. Where this has applied it has typically been in industrial regulation, in matters of social security or some personal regulated activity such as driving (for example, in the case of a hit and run). These form conditions placed upon operating in a particular manner and are thus understood in that context. There are few general duties in common law jurisdictions, although these do include the responsibility of a parent to safeguard their children, to a landowner to prevent offences being carried out there, and to someone creating a dangerous situation to attempt to limit that danger. Proponents of limited liability for omissions suggest that the wording for such a law would be vague, possibly involving \"reasonable\" care or action, and so would be hard to enforce. This would give prosecutors wide discretion, which may be opposed to justice. Morally, omission is viewed by many as a far lesser problem than act; compared to murder, allowing someone to die is seen as much smaller. A requirement to spend one's time and energy helping others would seem to contradict the autonomy many other laws aim to provide the individual with.\n\nOpponents point out these arguments fail to consider the harm that such omissions may cause, in contradiction to the harm principle many legal systems start out with. Life and physical integrity are often the highest priorities of a legal system. Difficulties in definition are in common with many other areas, theorists such as Feinburg point out. A non-burdensome rescue is likely to be less valuable than freedom of action. Limited liability is considered as article 223 of the French Penal Code, which criminalises: \"(1) a person who voluntarily neglects to prevent a serious crime of offense against that person, if that crime could be prevented without personal risk or risk to others; and (2) a person who voluntarily neglects to give, to a person in peril, assistance which could be rendered without personal risk or risk to others.\" This is common with several other European jurisdictions. Whilst open to the criticisms of vagueness and prosecutor discretion, it has not been seen as overly oppressive.\n\nWhen a state debates whether to respond to a source of injury by criminalising the behaviour that produces it, there are no pre-set criteria to apply in formulating social policy. There is no ontological reality to crime. The criminal justice system responds to a substantial number of events that do not produce significant hardship to individual citizens. Moreover, events which do cause serious injuries and perhaps should be dealt with as crimes, e.g. situations of corporate manslaughter, are either ignored or dealt with as civil matters.\n\nThe criminalization process defines and classifies behaviour. It broadcasts the laws so that no-one may have the excuse of ignorance, and disposes of those who will not obey. There are now more criminal laws and they are penetrating deeper into the social structures of modern societies. Crime control has become an industry, yet it remains ineffective in providing protection to all its citizens from harm. Such as it is, the process is made up of three components:\n\nPut in the most simple terms, ontology deals with or establishes the clear grounds for being. (Heidegger, Martin, Being and Time, introduction, referencing Plato's Parmenides.) In some of the traditional schools, such as those of the post-1688 English or Americans (many of the writings of the American Founding Fathers, but especially The Federalist) and their Dutch predecessors (see Kossmann, E. H. Political Thought in the Dutch Republic, 2004) ontology proper is deemed beyond the scope of legal thought, in accord with the modern distinction between society and state (which some consider based in the distinction the Romans made between themselves and their Italian allies, the socii, but not given the theoretical articulation we recognize today until emphasized by Thomas Hobbes' Leviathan. See state.) However, some classical theorists, such as Aristotle, in his Politics and Metaphysics, and to a lesser degree in his Topics, suggest that the distinction is at least problematic. One need consider no further than the claim that man is a political animal to see this is so.\n\nAs a political animal, man has come to see himself as possessed of rights, whether these are the Rights of Englishmen of old, or the universal human rights advocated vigorously toward establishment today through the matrix of commercialism. At least in the today dominant American model, deprivation of right amounts to injury (consider especially Justice Stevens dissenting opinion in Castle Rock v. Gonzales), and injury—so goes the prevailing theory—amounts, when coupled with requisite intent, in most cases, to crime, when it does not admit of civil redress. Thus, again in simple terms, and to the extent that human beings are indeed political beings, crime does seem to have an ontological basis. (For one approach to the question of criminal ontology, see \"Understanding Crime and Social Control in Market Economies: Looking Back and Moving Forward\" by Robert Bohm in Jeffrey Ian Ross, ed. Cutting the Edge: Current Perspectives in Radical/Critical Criminology and Criminal Justice. Westport, Conn: Praeger, 1998.) This, further, seems to hold if ontology itself is divided into political and trans- or supra- or meta- political ontology—i.e., what once was the realm of Christian theology. Of course, it does not matter whether that theology is Christian or belonging to some other apolitical belief. The point is that one may, with some justice, argue persuasively that being is divided. This need not, however, force the question of meta-political crimes. Our purposes here, in this article, are limited to the political. For the question in general see Ontology.\n\nBaker argues that only objective harms and other objective bad consequences (or actions in the case of inchoate and endangerment offenses) are prima facie criminalizable. By other bad consequences Baker means privacy violations and conduct that does not necessarily result in tangible harm, but does result in unwanted consequences. Baker argues that the privacy violations that result from being forced to receive unwanted obscene information in public places (exhibitionism) would amount to a sufficient bad consequence for the purposes of invoking the criminal law, but argues that proportionate punishment means that such conduct should only be punished with fines rather than jail terms.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1997414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997414", "title": "Donna Denizé", "text": "Donna Denizé\n\nDonna Denizé is an American poet and award-winning teacher at St. Albans School, located in Washington, D.C. Ms. Denize is currently Chairwoman of the English Department. She has contributed widely to journals and magazines with essays and poetry, written books of collections of poetry, participated in development of professional training programs for teachers as well as programs for students of multiple public schools. Some of her work has appeared in anthologies and magazines and she has contributed to some Corporation for Public Broadcasting print and video media.\n\nDenizé is an American of Haitian descent, and a native of Cape Cod, Massachusetts, Denizé has lived in the Washington D.C. area since 1978.\n\nDenizé holds an undergraduate degree from Stonehill College, where she was a student of Poet Laureate Robert Hayden, and an M.A. from Howard University in Renaissance Drama. She has received grants from the Bread Loaf School of English (using the accommodation of Lincoln College at the University of Oxford), Johns Hopkins Summer Writing Program, the Humanities Council of Washington, DC, and the Folger Shakespeare Library. In 1981 she participated in the World Order Magazine Commemorative Issue to Robert Hayden.\n\nIn 1980 she served through appointment by Governor Charles Robb to The Virginia State Advisory Board on Vocational Education. In 2003, she was awarded by Williams College the \"George Olmsted, Jr., Class of 1924 Prize for Excellence in Secondary School Teaching\", and in 2004, she was appointed to the Board of Trustees of American Shakespeare Center, a national destination and resource for audiences, actors, students, scholars, and educators, based at the Blackfriars Playhouse in Staunton, Virginia. She currently teaches literature at St. Albans School, where she teaches Shakespeare, American literature, and freshman English, serves as chair of the Faculty Diversity Committee and faculty advisor of the school's literary magazine and during the summer teaches in the Washington National Cathedral's summer program called Cathedral Scholars, an outreach program of academic enrichment which serves students from 15 different D.C. public schools. She is a recipient of the Distinguished Teacher Award from the White House Presidential Scholars Program.\n\nDenizé has been invited/appointed to numerous workshops, panel discussions, readings and other responsibilities at:\n\nDenizé's poetry has appeared in the book \"Hungry As We Are\". Denizé published a selection of poems titled \"The Lover's Voice\" in 1997 (Hickory House Press) and \"Broken Like Job\" in 2005 (The Word Works). She has also been a contributor to scholarly books and journals, including Shakespeare Set Free (), Innisfree Journal of Poetry, Gargoyle Magazine's \"Gargoyle 49\" CD, and \"Orison\". She has published essays like 'Use of Color in Selected Shakespearean Works' in Folger Shakespeare Library and 'A Scholar's Journey: Reflections on W.E.B. DuBois and the Power of Education' in \"Teacher's Digest\", an educational magazine from The Corporation for Public Broadcasting. Denizé has also contributed to programs of National Council of Teachers of English, National Endowment for the Humanities, Mobil Masterpiece Theatre, the Annenberg Foundation, and the Smithsonian Institution.\n\n"}
{"id": "1997415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997415", "title": "Microtubule-associated protein", "text": "Microtubule-associated protein\n\nIn cell biology, microtubule-associated proteins (MAPs) are proteins that interact with the microtubules of the cellular cytoskeleton.\n\nMAPs bind to the tubulin subunits that make up microtubules to regulate their stability. A large variety of MAPs have been identified in many different cell types, and they have been found to carry out a wide range of functions. These include both stabilizing and destabilizing microtubules, guiding microtubules towards specific cellular locations, cross-linking microtubules and mediating the interactions of microtubules with other proteins in the cell.\n\nWithin the cell, MAPs bind directly to the tubulin dimers of microtubules. This binding can occur with either polymerized or depolymerized tubulin, and in most cases leads to the stabilization of microtubule structure, further encouraging polymerization. Usually, it is the C-terminal domain of the MAP that interacts with tubulin, while the N-terminal domain can bind with cellular vesicles, intermediate filaments or other microtubules. MAP-microtubule binding is regulated through MAP phosphorylation. This is accomplished through the function of the microtubule-affinity-regulating-kinase (MARK) protein. Phosphorylation of the MAP by the MARK causes the MAP to detach from any bound microtubules. This detachment is usually associated with a destabilization of the microtubule causing it to fall apart. In this way the stabilization of microtubules by MAPs is regulated within the cell through phosphorylation.\n\nThe numerous identified MAPs have been largely divided into two categories: Type I including MAP1 proteins and type II including MAP2, MAP4 and tau proteins.\n\nMAP1a (MAP1A) and MAP1b (MAP1B) are the two major members of the MAP1 family. They bind to microtubules through charge interactions, a different mechanism to many other MAPs. While the C termini of these MAPs bind the microtubules, the N termini bind other parts of the cytoskeleton or the plasma membrane to control spacing of the microtubule within the cell. Members of the MAP1 family are found in the axons and dendrites of nerve cells.\n\nType II MAPs are found exclusively in nerve cells in mammals. These are the most well studied MAPs—MAP2 and tau (MAPT)—which participate in determining the structure of different parts of nerve cells, with MAP2 being found mostly in dendrites and tau in the axon. These proteins have a conserved C-terminal microtubule-binding domain and variable N-terminal domains projecting outwards, probably interacting with other proteins. MAP2 and tau stabilize microtubules, and thus shift the reaction kinetics in favor of addition of new subunits, accelerating microtubule growth. Both MAP2 and tau have been shown to stabilize microtubules by binding to the outer surface of the microtubule protofilaments. A single study has suggested that MAP2 and tau bind on the inner microtubule surface on the same site in tubulin monomers as the drug Taxol, which is used in treating cancer, but this study has not been confirmed. MAP2 binds in a cooperative manner, with many MAP2 proteins binding a single microtubule to promote stabilization. Tau has the additional function of facilitating bundling of microtubules within the nerve cell.\n\nThe function of tau has been linked to the neurological condition Alzheimer's disease. In the nervous tissue of Alzheimer's patients, tau forms abnormal aggregates. This aggregated tau is often severely modified, most commonly through hyperphosphorylation. As described above, phosphorylation of MAPs causes them to detach from microtubules. Thus, the hyperphosphorylation of tau leads to massive detachment, which in turn greatly reduces the stability of microtubules in nerve cells. This increase in microtubule instability may be one of the main causes of the symptoms of Alzheimer's disease.\n\nIn contrast to the MAPs described above, MAP4 (MAP4) is not confined to just nerve cells, but rather can be found in nearly all types of cells. Like MAP2 and tau, MAP4 is responsible for stabilization of microtubules. MAP4 has also been linked to the process of cell division.\n\nBesides the classic MAP groups, novel MAPs have been identified that bind the length of the microtubules. These include STOP (also known as MAP6), and ensconsin (also known as MAP7).\n\nIn addition, plus end tracking proteins, which bind to the very tip of growing microtubules, have also been identified. These include EB1, EB2, EB3, p150Glued, Dynamitin, Lis1, CLIP170, CLIP115, CLASP1, and CLASP2.\n\nAnother MAP whose function has been investigated during cell division is known as XMAP215 (the \"X\" stands for Xenopus). XMAP215 has generally been linked to microtubule stabilization. During mitosis the dynamic instability of microtubules has been observed to rise approximately tenfold. This is partly due to phosphorylation of XMAP215, which makes catastrophes (rapid depolymerization of microtubules) more likely. In this way the phosphorylation of MAPs plays a role in mitosis.\n\nThere are many other proteins which affect microtubule behavior, such as catastrophin, which destabilizes microtubules, katanin, which severs them, and a number of motor proteins that transport vesicles along them. Certain motor proteins were originally designated as MAPs before it was found that they utilized ATP hydrolysis to transport cargo. In general, all these proteins are not considered \"MAPs\" because they do not bind directly to tubulin monomers, a defining characteristic of MAPs. MAPs bind directly to microtubules to stabilize or destabilize them and link them to various cellular components including other microtubules.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1997417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997417", "title": "Coinsins", "text": "Coinsins\n\nCoinsins is a municipality in the district of Nyon in the canton of Vaud in Switzerland.\n\nCoinsins is first mentioned in 1212 as \"Quinsins\". In 1296 it was mentioned as \"Cuynsins\".\n\nCoinsins has an area, , of . Of this area, or 70.8% is used for agricultural purposes, while or 15.1% is forested. Of the rest of the land, or 13.7% is settled (buildings or roads) and or 1.4% is unproductive land.\n\nOf the built up area, housing and buildings made up 4.8% and transportation infrastructure made up 6.2%. Power and water infrastructure as well as other special developed areas made up 1.7% of the area Out of the forested land, 12.4% of the total land area is heavily forested and 2.7% is covered with orchards or small clusters of trees. Of the agricultural land, 48.5% is used for growing crops and 7.9% is pastures, while 14.4% is used for orchards or vine crops.\n\nThe municipality was part of the Nyon District until it was dissolved on 31 August 2006, and Coinsins became part of the new district of Nyon.\n\nThe municipality is located in the hills above Nyon.\n\nThe blazon of the municipal coat of arms is \"Azure, on a Bend Or a Lizard Vert.\"\n\nCoinsins has a population () of . , 21.5% of the population are resident foreign nationals. Over the last 10 years (1999–2009 ) the population has changed at a rate of 8.4%. It has changed at a rate of 3.8% due to migration and at a rate of 5.1% due to births and deaths.\n\nMost of the population () speaks French (288 or 78.3%), with English being second most common (27 or 7.3%) and German being third (23 or 6.3%). There are 10 people who speak Italian.\n\nThe age distribution, , in Coinsins is; 52 children or 13.2% of the population are between 0 and 9 years old and 48 teenagers or 12.2% are between 10 and 19. Of the adult population, 40 people or 10.1% of the population are between 20 and 29 years old. 58 people or 14.7% are between 30 and 39, 65 people or 16.5% are between 40 and 49, and 48 people or 12.2% are between 50 and 59. The senior population distribution is 48 people or 12.2% of the population are between 60 and 69 years old, 23 people or 5.8% are between 70 and 79, there are 13 people or 3.3% who are between 80 and 89.\n\n, there were 147 people who were single and never married in the municipality. There were 194 married individuals, 16 widows or widowers and 11 individuals who are divorced.\n\n, there were 140 private households in the municipality, and an average of 2.5 persons per household. There were 35 households that consist of only one person and 4 households with five or more people. Out of a total of 145 households that answered this question, 24.1% were households made up of just one person. Of the rest of the households, there are 43 married couples without children, 55 married couples with children There were 4 single parents with a child or children. There were 3 households that were made up of unrelated people and 5 households that were made up of some sort of institution or another collective housing.\n\n, a total of 134 apartments (85.9% of the total) were permanently occupied, while 20 apartments (12.8%) were seasonally occupied and 2 apartments (1.3%) were empty. , the construction rate of new housing units was 0 new units per 1000 residents. The vacancy rate for the municipality, , was 0%.\n\nThe historical population is given in the following chart:\nIn the 2007 federal election the most popular party was the SVP which received 23.55% of the vote. The next three most popular parties were the SP (20.84%), the LPS Party (17.34%) and the Green Party (14.2%). In the federal election, a total of 113 votes were cast, and the voter turnout was 47.1%.\n\n, Coinsins had an unemployment rate of 2.9%. , there were 15 people employed in the primary economic sector and about 7 businesses involved in this sector. 92 people were employed in the secondary sector and there were 11 businesses in this sector. 84 people were employed in the tertiary sector, with 13 businesses in this sector. There were 215 residents of the municipality who were employed in some capacity, of which females made up 43.7% of the workforce.\n\n, there were 129 workers who commuted into the municipality and 162 workers who commuted away. The municipality is a net exporter of workers, with about 1.3 workers leaving the municipality for every one entering. About 14.0% of the workforce coming into Coinsins are coming from outside Switzerland. Of the working population, 12.1% used public transportation to get to work, and 64.2% used a private car.\n\nFrom the , 120 or 32.6% were Roman Catholic, while 165 or 44.8% belonged to the Swiss Reformed Church. Of the rest of the population, there was 1 member of an Orthodox church, and there were 20 individuals (or about 5.43% of the population) who belonged to another Christian church. There were 2 (or about 0.54% of the population) who were Islamic. There were 3 individuals who were Buddhist. 55 (or about 14.95% of the population) belonged to no church, are agnostic or atheist, and 8 individuals (or about 2.17% of the population) did not answer the question.\n\nIn Coinsins about 152 or (41.3%) of the population have completed non-mandatory upper secondary education, and 75 or (20.4%) have completed additional higher education (either university or a \"Fachhochschule\"). Of the 75 who completed tertiary schooling, 44.0% were Swiss men, 24.0% were Swiss women, 24.0% were non-Swiss men and 8.0% were non-Swiss women.\n\nIn the 2009/2010 school year there were a total of 46 students in the Coinsins school district. In the Vaud cantonal school system, two years of non-obligatory pre-school are provided by the political districts. During the school year, the political district provided pre-school care for a total of 1,249 children of which 563 children (45.1%) received subsidized pre-school care. The canton's primary school program requires students to attend for four years. There were 32 students in the municipal primary school program. The obligatory lower secondary school program lasts for six years and there were 13 students in those schools. There was also 1 student who was home schooled or attended another non-traditional school.\n\n, there was one student in Coinsins who came from another municipality, while 55 residents attended schools outside the municipality.\n"}
{"id": "1997418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997418", "title": "Charleston Farmhouse", "text": "Charleston Farmhouse\n\nCharleston, in East Sussex, is a property associated with the Bloomsbury group, that is open to the public. It was the country home of Vanessa Bell and Duncan Grant and is an example of their decorative style within a domestic context, representing the fruition of more than sixty years of artistic creativity. In addition to the house and artists' garden, there is an exhibition gallery that displays a mix of contemporary and historical shows of fine and decorative art, a Crafts Council-selected shop selling applied art and books relating to Bloomsbury, a small tea-room and a video presentation. Charleston hosts a number of special events throughout the year, most notably the Charleston Festival, which is centred on talks and drama relating to literary, artistic and Bloomsbury themes.\n\nThe house is located in the village of Firle, in the Lewes District of East Sussex, England.\n\nIn 1916 the artists Vanessa Bell and Duncan Grant moved to Sussex with their unconventional household when Grant, under the terms of his exemption from military service, was employed at a nearby farm together with David Garnett. Over the following half-century Charleston became the country meeting place for the group of artists, writers and intellectuals known as Bloomsbury. Garnett, Clive Bell and Maynard Keynes lived at Charleston for considerable periods; Virginia and Leonard Woolf, E. M. Forster, Lytton Strachey and Roger Fry were frequent visitors. Inspired by Italian fresco painting and the Post-Impressionists, the artists decorated the walls, doors and furniture at Charleston. The walled garden was redesigned in a style reminiscent of southern Europe, with mosaics, box hedges, gravel pathways and ponds, but with a touch of Bloomsbury humour in the placing of the statuary.\n\n\"It's most lovely, very solid and simple, with ... perfectly flat windows and wonderful tiled roofs. The pond is most beautiful, with a willow at one side and a stone or flint wall edging it all round the garden part, and a little lawn sloping down to it, with formal bushes on it.\" — Vanessa Bell \n\nThe rooms on show form a complete example of the decorative art of the Bloomsbury artists: murals, painted furniture, ceramics, objects from the Omega Workshops, paintings and textiles. The collection includes work by Auguste Renoir, Picasso, Derain, Matthew Smith, Sickert, Stephen Tomlin (1901–1937) and Eugène Delacroix.\n\nCharleston's walled garden was created by Vanessa Bell and Duncan Grant to designs by Roger Fry. Together they transformed vegetable plots and hen runs, essential to the household during the First World War, into a quintessential planted garden mixing Mediterranean influences with cottage garden planting. In the 1920s a grid of gravel paths gave structure to beds of plants chosen by Grant and Bell for their intense colour and silver foliage. These became the subject of many still lifes over their long residence at Charleston. Dora Carrington wrote of the garden, \"Never, never have I seen quite such a wonderful place! ... What excellent things there will be to paint in that garden with the pond and buildings.\" Part of the garden’s sense of luxuriance and surprise comes from the variety of sculpture it contains. Classical forms sit side by side with life-size works by Quentin Bell, mosaic pavements and tile edged pools. The orchard offers shade from the sun and the pond a focus for tranquil contemplation. Above all this was a summer garden for playing and painting, an enchanted retreat from London life. As Vanessa Bell wrote in 1936: \"The house seems full of young people in very high spirits, laughing a great deal at their own jokes ... lying about in the garden which is simply a dithering blaze of flowers and butterflies and apples.\"\n\nThe Charleston Trust is a charity set up in 1980 to restore and maintain the home of the Bloomsbury Group artists for the benefit of the public. The unique collection at Charleston is illustrative of the art and lifestyle of the influential Bloomsbury Group and has been on show to the public since 1986. Charleston attracts visitors from the local community as well as the rest of the UK and abroad.\nToday although Charleston is no longer in crisis, its future is far from secure. The Charleston Trust does not have the funds to guarantee the preservation of the house for future generations and relies on its income from admissions, sales from the shop and tea room, membership fees from the Friends of Charleston and grants from various bodies and donations.\n\nThe Charleston Festival takes place around May each year in a marquee in the gardens of the house and lasts about a week and a half. It is predominantly a literary festival that has hosted such figures as Peter Bazalgette, Jung Chang, Michael Frayn, Patrick Garland, Stephen Poliakoff, Patti Smith, Sarah Waters, Polly Toynbee and Simon Schama.\n\nIt also holds an exhibition programme that has included: Norman Ackroyd, Stephen Finer, Derek Jarman, Desmond Morris, Tom Phillips, photographs by Patti Smith, Sir John Tenniel and others.\n\nThere is also another single-night event, The Quentin Follies, named after Quentin Bell, the son of Vanessa Bell, that raises money to buy back works of art by the Bloomsbury Set that are privately owned. It takes the form of a silent auction of donated works of art and an evening variety show with a number of acts from opera singing to music hall to stand-up comedy.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1997423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997423", "title": "Birgitta", "text": "Birgitta\n\nBirgitta is the Swedish and Icelandic form of the Irish Gaelic female name \"Brighid\". Brighid or Brigid was the name of an ancient Celtic goddess, and its English form is Bridget. Birgitta and its alternate forms Birgit and Britta became common names in Scandinavia because of St. Bridget of Sweden.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1997425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997425", "title": "Ladies of the Chorus", "text": "Ladies of the Chorus\n\nLadies of the Chorus is a 1949 American musical romance film directed by Phil Karlson and starring Adele Jergens, Marilyn Monroe and Rand Brooks. The screenplay, written by Harry Sauber and Joseph Carole, was based on a story by Sauber.\n\nReleased by Columbia Pictures, \"Ladies of the Chorus\" features Marilyn Monroe in the first major role of her career. Considered a B film at the time of its release, it quickly disappeared from theatres, and Monroe's contract with Columbia Pictures was not renewed.\n\nUpon its original theatrical release, Adele Jergens was credited first while Marilyn Monroe was billed second. After Monroe became a star in the early 1950s, \"Ladies of the Chorus\" was reissued to capitalize on Monroe's fame. Her name was placed before the title, not only in advertising but on the film itself, which remains today.\n\nPeggy Martin (Marilyn Monroe) and her mother Mae (Adele Jergens) both work as burlesque chorus girls. After star Bubbles LaRue quits, Joe, the stage manager, asks Mae to do a specialty number, but Mae secretly arranges for Peggy to do the number instead, and her performance is so good that she is given the starring spot.\n\nOne evening, Randy Carroll (Rand Brooks), a member of a wealthy society family in Cleveland, Ohio, is brought to a performance by friends and becomes completely enamored of Peggy. Learning that Peggy generally does not go on dates because her mother disapproves, Randy adopts a subtle strategy. Every night, he sends Peggy an orchid, but does not sign the card. Curious about her secret admirer, Peggy goes to the florist to learn his identity. When the florist tells her that the man is due to arrive at any moment, Peggy waits for him. After they finally meet, Randy asks Peggy to dinner and she accepts, but first she invites him to meet her mother. Randy is shocked to learn that Mae is also a dancer, but he politely asks her to join them for dinner. Mae declines, but waits anxiously for Peggy to return home. That night, an ecstatic Peggy tells Mae that Randy has proposed.\n\nThe next day, when Randy asks Mae for her consent, she warns him that there is a class difference between him and Peggy. In response to Randy's indifference, Mae tells him the story of her marriage to a Boston socialite, Peggy's father. After their marriage, she explains, her husband's family was horrified to learn how she made her living and had the marriage annulled. Randy protests that people are more broadminded now than they were in her day, and Mae agrees to the marriage, providing that Randy tells his mother about Peggy's profession beforehand.\n\nRandy then tries to tell his mother Adele (Nana Bryant) about Peggy, but gets cold feet. Adele, however, is delighted that Randy has fallen in love and invites Mae and Peggy for a visit. Adele plans a lavish engagement party for all their friends. Before the party, Mae's old friend, Billy Mackay (Eddie Garr), a retired burlesque comic, joins them. The trio of musicians that Adele has hired to entertain recognize Peggy and ask her to sing. The party guests are scandalized, and feeling snubbed, Peggy and Mae decide to go home. Mrs. Carroll stops them, because, she declares, if they run away, it will only make things worse. Adele then asks Billy to help her sing something.\n\nAfterwards, she announces to her shocked friends that she too used to be a chorus girl, but later she secretly tells Mae and Billy that she made up that story to help Peggy and Randy. She then suggests that it is time for Mae to marry her old friend Billy, who has loved her for years.\n\n\nAll of the five songs featured in the film were written by Lester Lee and Allan Roberts.\n"}
{"id": "1997427", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997427", "title": "Missisquoi River", "text": "Missisquoi River\n\nThe Missisquoi River is a tributary of Lake Champlain, approximately 80 mi (130 km) long, in northern Vermont in the United States and southern Quebec in Canada.\n\nIt drains a rural area of the northern Green Mountains along the Canada–US border northeast of Lake Champlain, and an area of Quebec's Eastern Townships. The South Branch rises in Vermont and runs generally from southeast to northwest; the North Branch rises in Lake d'Argent in Eastman, Quebec, and runs from north to south. The North Branch and the South Branch join at Highwater, Quebec, just downriver from North Troy, Vermont. The river then runs in Quebec for approximately 15 miles (24 km), re-entering Vermont at Richford and thence to Lake Champlain's Missisquoi Bay.\nThe name of the river is derived from an Algonquian Abenaki word \"Masipskoik,\" meaning \"[Place where there are] Large Rocks\", referring to boulders found at the river's alluvial fan. .\n\nAlternative:\nMissisquoi Soil – Missisquoi is derived from the Abenaki word \"masipskoik,\" which\nmeans “where there is flint” or “where flint is”. The name originates from an Abenaki\nchert quarry located near Missisquoi Bay on Lake Champlain.\n\nThe South Branch of the Missisquoi rises in western Orleans County, Vermont, southwest of Lowell near Belvidere Mountain, then flows north past Troy and North Troy. It enters Quebec at Highwater, where it joins the North Branch. The North Branch of the Missisquoi rises in Lake Eastman, Quebec, and runs about through Eastman, Bolton Centre, East Bolton, South Bolton, and Mansonville, before joining the South Branch at Highwater, Quebec. The Missisquoi loops to the southwest through Dunkin and Glen Sutton, Quebec, to reenter Vermont at East Richford in northeastern Franklin County.\n\nIt flows west through northern Franklin County approximately 10 miles (16 km) south of the Canada–US border, past the small communities of Richford, East Berkshire, Enosburg Falls, and Sheldon Springs. On the west side of Interstate 89 in northwestern Franklin County, it turns to the north, passing through Missisquoi National Wildlife Refuge in its lower 5 miles (8 km) before entering the south end of Missisquoi Bay, an arm of Lake Champlain that straddles the Canada-Vermont border.\n\nNamed tributaries in Vermont are: Taft Brook in Westfield, Beetle Brook in Troy, Jay Brook in Jay, Stanhope Brook in Richford, the Trout River in Montgomery, Tyler Branch in Enosburg, Black Creek in Sheldon and Fairfield, and Hungerford Brook in Swanton and Highgate.\n\nThe Abenaki people used the river as a canoe route between the Lake Champlain drainage and the Saint-François River drainage. The river supports canoe traffic from Lake Champlain to Mansonville, Quebec, where there is a falls. From there, an ancient portage (carrying place) runs to Perkins Landing on Lake Memphremagog. Abenaki groups met seasonally on the bluffs at Eagle Point in Newport, Vermont, to catch and dry whitefish.\n\nThe Missisquoi Valley was among the first areas of Southern Quebec's Eastern Townships to be taken by Loyalist refugees, who came upriver from camps on Missisquoi Bay.\nIn September 2008 the government of the United States approved a bill to study the Missisquoi and Trout rivers for potential designation as Wild and Scenic Rivers. It passed the House with bi-partisan support, and the rivers could potentially receive permanent protection in the National Wild and Scenic Rivers System. River sections being considered for Wild and Scenic designation are as follows:\n\n\nA Study Committee composed of local appointees and partner organizations has been evaluating the Wild and Scenic Designation of the upper Missisquoi and Trout rivers. The group's mission is to facilitate the transfer of information among the ten communities through which the rivers flow - Berkshire, Town of Enosburgh, Village of Enosburg Falls, Jay, Lowell, Montgomery, Village of North Troy, Richford, Westfield, and the Town of Troy, and evaluate the potential benefits of the Wild & Scenic designation. At the end of the study in 2012, the committee is scheduled to provide an assessment as to whether the rivers fit designation criteria and whether designation is supported, and make recommendations of voluntary strategies for protection of the rivers' resources.\n\nAs a result of the National Park Service and Study Committee recommendation, of the Missisquoi River and Trout River were added to the National Wild and Scenic River System on December 19, 2014.\n\nThere are 24 international bridges and tunnels in Canada. The Valley Bridge is the only international bridge in Quebec. The Valley Bridge spans the Missisquoi River on a north-west/south-east axis. This bridge is located on the Canada-US border, between the two customs posts.\n\nThe northwest part of this bridge is located in the town of Sutton, near the hamlet of Glen Sutton, in Quebec. The other end of the bridge is located in the municipality of Richford, in the state of Vermont in the United States, near the hamlet of East Richford. This bridge serves sector residents and vacationers transiting between Canada and the United States. This triangular metal beam bridge has two spans: one of 16 m and the other of 46.5 meters.\n\nAccording to a souvenir plaque affixed at each end of the bridge, the manufacturer of the metal superstructure of the Vallée bridge is the American company Pittsburg Des Moines Steel Co. The substructure was built by Cenedella & Compagny, from Milford to Massachussets. Construction contracts had been awarded in 1929. This bridge has been listed since 1990 in the National Register of Historic Places in the United States. This metal bridge replaces the old concrete bridge destroyed by the November 1927 flood.\n\nIn 2016, about 60% of male smallmouth bass bore eggs (androgyny). Pollution from farmland runoff, containing the weedkiller atrazine is a possible suspect.\n\n"}
{"id": "1997430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997430", "title": "Panty raid", "text": "Panty raid\n\nA panty raid was an American 1950s college prank in which large groups of male students attempted to invade the living quarters of female students and steal their panties (undergarments) as the trophies of a successful raid. The term dates to February 1949.\n\nPanty raids were the first college craze after World War II, following the 1930s crazes of goldfish swallowing or seeing how many students could fit in a phone booth. The mock battles that ensued between male and female students echoed the riotous battles between freshmen and upperclassmen, which were an annual ritual at many colleges in the 20th century.\n\nThe first documented incident occurred on February 25, 1949, at Augustana College, Rock Island, Illinois. Around 125 men entered the Woman's Building; the first party entered through heating tunnels beneath the building. Once inside, they unlocked the door for the remaining raiders to enter, locked the house mother in her apartment, and cut the light and phone lines. Although a few women reported missing undergarments, the goal was to cause commotion. The police arrived, and although no pranksters were charged, the news traveled, making headlines in the \"Chicago Tribune\", \"Stars and Stripes\", \"Time\" magazine, and the \"New York Times\".\n\nThe next incident was on March 21, 1952, when University of Michigan students raided a dormitory, which sparked panty raids across the nation. Penn State's first raid involved 2,000 males marching on the women's dorms on April 8, 1952, cheered on by the women, who opened doors and windows and tossed out lingerie. By the end of the 1952 spring term the \"epidemic\" had spread to 52 campuses.\n\nAt a number of colleges, panty raids functioned as a humorous, \"ad hoc\" protest against curfews and entry restrictions that barred male visitors from women's dormitories. This was particularly the case at colleges that had recently started admitting women in large numbers for the first time after World War II, where the role of female students on campus had not yet been worked out. At some colleges the large, leaderless crowds that gathered around panty raids were co-opted by student politicians into protest and activism against dorm curfews and parietals. These stirrings of student protest against restrictive campus rules fed the sudden emergence in the late 1950s of liberal activist parties in student government, such as SLATE at Berkeley.\n\nGenerally, the women welcomed the raiders and in some cases raided men's colleges such as Georgetown University in Washington, D.C. At the University of Washington, though, raiders broke windows, and female students at Columbia College and Stephens College fought raiders from the University of Missouri.\n\nRaiding continued, such as the raid by Princeton University men on Westminster Choir College in spring 1953. The University of Nebraska was credited with the first panty raid of 1955, when hundreds raided the women's dorms, resulting in injuries and seven suspensions. The University of California, Berkeley had a 3,000-man panty raid in May 1956, which resulted in $10,000 damage (about $92,000 in 2018). At the University of Michigan, panty raids were associated with fall football pep rallies in addition to being a spring ritual in the 1950s and early 1960s.\n\nIn his 2005 autobiography, \"Dinner with Mobutu: A Chronicle of My Life and Times\", Jasper \"Jake\" Smith, III (born 1935), a son of State Representative Jasper K. Smith of Vivian in Caddo Parish, describes a humorous attempt in 1957 by Ralph L. Ropp, the president of Louisiana Tech University in Ruston, to halt a panty raid on his campus:\nIt had been arranged on a late spring night that some of the women in the female dormitory would leave a door unlocked so that the \"raiders\" could get inside. ... As we approached the dormitory, the college president, Ralph Ropp, the Dean of Men, and a large group of policemen confronted us. Someone had tipped them off. The crowd started dispersing, re-forming in smaller groups, hesitant about giving up the adventure. President Ropp was apoplectic, running from group to group threatening to expel students and send their names to the draft board—a threat that made all-draft age males more than a little nervous. Old Ralph got a little too close to one of the male dormitories, and someone dumped a bucket of water from the third floor on his head. So the night was not a total loss. ...\n\nThe spring ritual continued into the 1960s. In 1961, three students were expelled from the University of Mississippi at Oxford, Mississippi for panty raids.\n\nBy the 1970s, mixed dorms and less inhibited attitudes to sexual intercourse on campus led to fading of panty raids. However, in the 1984 film \"Revenge of the Nerds\", the Tri-Lambs stage a panty raid on the Pi Delta Pis sorority. A panty raid was also depicted in the television show \"SpongeBob SquarePants\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1997431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997431", "title": "Upper Hudson River Railroad", "text": "Upper Hudson River Railroad\n\nThe Upper Hudson River Railroad was a heritage railroad that operated from 1999 to 2010 in the upper Hudson River in New York State's Adirondack Mountains.\n\nPrimary motive power consisted of Southwind Rail Travel Limited ex-Delaware & Hudson locomotive No. 5019.\n\nThe Upper Hudson River Railroad uses the Adirondack Railway line built by Thomas C. Durant in 1871 to North Creek. North Creek station is where Theodore Roosevelt learned he was to become president of the United States of America after President William McKinley was assassinated in 1901.\n\nDuring World War II, magnetite, ilmenite, and titanium were shipped by rail from Tahawus by the Delaware and Hudson Railway (D&H). The D&H, which acquired the Adirondack Line from William West Durant in 1889, ran through this region until 1989 when the mine at Tahawus closed. The D&H last operated Monday through Saturday scheduled passenger service in the 1950s; reduced to summer service by the mid-1950s. Regular service having entirely ended by 1957, with only freight service remaining.\n\nIn 1998 the right of way was purchased by Warren County with plans to operate an excursion train to improve tourism and economic development in the area. In 1999, the Upper Hudson River Railroad was formed and introduced an excursion train that ran south from North Creek to Riverside Station in Riparius.\n\nThe track from Riverside Station south to Hadley was rebuilt by 2007. The Upper Hudson River Railroad celebrated its tenth year with a run, dubbed \"40 Miler\", that started at the high trestle in Hadley and ended at the restored turntable in North Creek. The 2007 season included excursions to Ranch, the 40 miler to Hadley, and a Payroll Robbery. Various actors playing the roles of clowns, hobos, and a musician/storyteller join the excursions.\n\nThe Upper Hudson River Railroad lost their contract with Warren County on December 31, 2010. On April 8, 2011, it was announced that Iowa Pacific Holdings would take over operation of the route effective July 1, 2011. As part of the agreement, the Iowa Pacific agreed to operate a minimum of 182 tourist-oriented passenger trains over the line. Iowa Pacific began operating trains on July 12, 2011 as the Saratoga and North Creek Railroad. Unlike the Upper Hudson River Railroad, the Saratoga and North Creek operates over the entire distance between the Upper Hudson River Railroad's former terminal in North Creek and the station in Saratoga Springs, which allows connections with Amtrak's \"Adirondack\" and \"Ethan Allen Express\" services.\n\nAn article dated May 14, 2012 in the \"Post Star\" titled \"Federal board OKs rail freight line between North Creek and Newcomb\" stated, \"The operator of the Saratoga & North Creek Railway can move forward with plans to reopen the Tahawus rail line between North Creek and Newcomb and offer freight service, U.S. Sen. Charles Schumer, D-N.Y., announced Monday. The federal Surface Transportation Board on Monday approved a request for 'common carrier' status on the line, which allows Iowa Pacific Holdings, the rail line operator, to reopen the line.\" This action will result in freight traffic running over the former UHRR line.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1997439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997439", "title": "Marvel Games", "text": "Marvel Games\n\nMarvel Games is the publishing brand for video games based on Marvel properties, and is the video games division of Marvel Entertainment. Before the incorporation of Marvel Games, video games based on Marvel released from 1982 to 1985 were handled by Marvel Comics Group, and Marvel video games from 1986 to 1998 were handled by Marvel Entertainment Group, whilst video games based on Marvel released from 1999 to 2008 were handled directly by Marvel Enterprises.\n\nEstablished in March 2009, the label handles the licensing of Marvel intellectual properties to video game developers and publishers. After The Walt Disney Company acquisition of Marvel Entertainment in 2009, Marvel Games assets were integrated into Disney Interactive, whilst the division itself remained under Marvel Entertainment.\n\nThe Marvel Games branding was revived after Disney discontinued their interactive media business as a first party developer and publisher by shutting down Disney Interactive Studios, opting to license their intellectual properties for video games instead. Since then, Marvel Games has been involved with publishing and distribution of all Marvel related video games with third parties.\n\n"}
{"id": "1997442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997442", "title": "Round Rock Independent School District", "text": "Round Rock Independent School District\n\nRound Rock Independent School District (RRISD) is a school district headquartered in the city of Round Rock, Texas, United States. As of Fall 2019, the school district is serving over 51,000 students, prekindergarten through grade 12.\n\nDistrict boundaries are approximately 110 square miles and include 55 schools that serve students in southern Williamson County, northwest Travis County, the city of Round Rock and portions of the cities of Austin and Cedar Park.\n\nStudent enrollment for the 2019-2020 school year is 51,208. Round Rock ISD employs more than 6,400 educators, administrators, support and professional staff.\n\nIn May 17, 1913, the Williamson County government approved incorporation of Williamson County Common School District #19, forming RRISD. Originally, the district consisted of only two schools.\n\nRound Rock ISD public schools of choice provides students access to innovative programming that engages and taps into their specific interests, aspirations and preferred learning styles.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nDemographics\n\nThe Round Rock Independent School District is governed by a seven-member Board of Trustees.\n\nThe 11,000-capacity Kelly Reeves Stadium in Austin is owned by the Round Rock Independent School District. It is used mostly for American football.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1997449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997449", "title": "Arthur R. Miller", "text": "Arthur R. Miller\n\nArthur Raphael Miller (born 22 June 1934), is a leading scholar in the field of American civil procedure and a University Professor at New York University and Chairman of The NYU Sports & Society Program.\n\nPrior to joining NYU, Miller was the Bruce Bromley Professor of Law at Harvard Law School (1971–2007), after being on the faculties of the University of Michigan and the University of Minnesota. He is coauthor with Charles Alan Wright of \"Federal Practice and Procedure\", the legendary treatise in the field. This multi-volume series is an essential reference for judges and lawyers. Miller is also one of the nation's most distinguished legal scholars in the areas of civil litigation, copyright and unfair competition, and privacy, having written more than 40 books and many articles, including \"The Assault on Privacy: Computers, Data Banks, and Dossiers\" (University of Michigan Press, 1971), one of the first books warning of the threat to privacy posed by modern information technology; \"Civil Procedure: Cases and Materials\" (with J.H. Friedenthal, J. Sexton, and H. Hershkoff; 1967–2008 (ten editions)); \"Federal Practice and Procedure\" (with C.A. Wright, some with E.H. Cooper, M.K. Kane, and R. Marcus; 1968-2008, West Publishing Co. (more than thirty-five volumes)); \"Intellectual Property: Patents, Trademarks and Copyright in a Nutshell\" (with M.H. Davis, 1998–2011, West Publishing Co. (four editions)), among many others. In 1999 Professor Miller made videotapes lectures for Concord Law School, an online law school, privately owned by the Washington Post Co.'s Kaplan Educational Centers, and videotaped 11 lectures for a course on civil procedure. To him, Mr. Miller says, the Web represents what television represented when he started doing his public-affairs television show on legal issues, titled \"Miller's Court,\" in 1979—the next frontier for teaching law to the general public.\n\nIn October 2008, Professor Miller became Special Counsel to Milberg LLP and heads the firm’s appellate practice group. Since then, he has argued before the U.S. Supreme Court on behalf of Milberg clients in Tellabs, Inc. v. Makor Issues & Rights, and was involved in the briefing in opposition to the writ of certiorari in Pfizer, Inc. v. Abdullahi. In addition, Milberg’s Supreme Court practice group was a key player in the Merck & Co., Inc. v. Reynolds matter, a case in which it serves as co-lead counsel. In August 2013, Professor Miller joined the Lanier Law Firm as Of Counsel.\n\nMiller is the recipient of many awards, including eight honorary doctorates, three American Bar Association Gavel Awards, and a Special Recognition Gavel Award for promoting public understanding of the law. Queen Elizabeth II with the advice of her government bestowed on him the prestigious honor of Commander of the Order of the British Empire (2011). This honor recognizes Miller’s service to the UK by his gift of more than 1,800 Japanese woodblock prints by nineteenth-century artist Utagawa Kuniyoshi to the American Friends of the British Museum; these were exhibited at the Royal Academy in the spring of 2009. It also recognizes his more than fifteen years spent moderating public policy issues and dialogues, called \"Hypotheticals\" on BBC TV and Granada Television. These dialogues were modeled on the well-known Fred Friendly dialogues, broadcast on PBS, for one of which Miller won an Emmy (\"The Constitution: That Delicate Balance\"). He served for two decades as the on-air legal editor for ABC's Good Morning America. His weekly television program titled Miller's Court was aired on Boston's WCVB-TV from 1979–1988 and was the first American TV show dedicated to the exploration of legal issues. He provided commentary on the Discovery Channel program \"Justice Files\". He also sits on the advisory board of H5, a firm specializing in electronic discovery for legal cases.\n\nMiller has argued cases in all of the United States courts of appeals and several before the U.S. Supreme Court. He has worked in the public interest in the areas of privacy, computers, copyright, and the courts and has served as a member and Reporter of the Advisory Committee of Civil Rules of the Judicial Conference of the U.S. by appointment of two Chief Justices of the United States, as Reporter and Advisor to the American Law Institute, as a member of a special advisory group to the Chief Justice of the United States, and as a member of various American Bar Association committees. Miller was also appointed as commissioner on the United States Commission on New Technological Uses of Copyrighted Work by President Ford.\nMiller has for fifty years enlisted the help of some of his students as research assistants, a notoriously demanding position for first and second year law students. Similar to the relationship between a judge and his or her clerks, Miller has stayed in touch with many of his former research assistants and many have gone on to important positions as federal and state judges, law professors, Supreme Court clerks, and as partners at prestigious law firms. New York University President John Sexton was one of Miller's research assistants at Harvard, as was Richard B. Bernstein, now a distinguished adjunct professor of law at New York Law School. Other former students include Chief Justice John Roberts, former New York Governor Eliot Spitzer, and Senator Russ Feingold of Wisconsin.\n\nMiller was one of the real figures on whom Scott Turow based the pseudonymous Harvard Law Professor Rudolph Perini in Scott Turow's bestselling memoir of his first year in law school, \"One L\". Although Turow has never acknowledged or denied the connection, Miller has long thought himself the real Perini, and conventional wisdom in the legal community has largely concurred. In the book, Perini is depicted as brilliant but imperious, with a caustic wit and a flair for the dramatic. Readers of the book familiar with Harvard Law School and the history of Turow's three years at HLS have deduced that Turow took Miller, whose civil procedure course he took, and assigned his fictional counterpart Perini to teach contracts, and he also took Duncan Kennedy, his contracts professor, and transformed him into the civil procedure professor Nicky \"Beat Nick\" Morris.\n\nIn one of Miller's television specials from the early 1980s covering censorship, he posed the hypothetical case of a heavy metal band, which he named \"The Sick Puppies\". Sick Puppies is now the name of a real band from Australia, playing grunge and alternative rock.\n\nIn the late 1980s, Miller's caustic classroom comments at Harvard frequently topped the \"Back Bench Quotation Poll,\" a feature in the Back Bench Reporter, one of the premier law school section newsletters of its day.\n\nSeveral years ago, NYU Law Revue created a spoof of Miller in a South Park style, entitled “What Would Arthur Miller Do”.\n\nIn 2011, students from NYU's Law Revue created a hip hop tribute to Miller called \"A. Milley\" based on Lil' Wayne's \"A Milli.\" The video can be found here.\n\nMiller is also known for his collection of wood block prints by the nineteenth century Japanese artist Utagawa Kuniyoshi, shown in 2009 at the Royal Academy in London, as well as at the Japan Society (2010) in New York City. In both venues, the exhibition received rave reviews.\n\n"}
{"id": "1997450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997450", "title": "Jean-Paul Proust", "text": "Jean-Paul Proust\n\nJean-Paul Proust (3 March 1940 – 8 April 2010) was a French and Monegasque civil servant. He served as the Minister of State of Monaco.\n\nJean-Paul Proust was born on 3 March 1940 in Vaas, Sarthe, France. He graduated from the École Nationale d'Administration.\n\nHe was a long-time member of the French civil service. He served as Prefect of Guadeloupe from November 1989 to July 1991 and as the chief of police of Paris from 2001 to 6 December 2004.\n\nHe then served as the Monegasque Minister of State, a post equivalent to Prime Minister. As such, he had the honor of administering Prince Albert II his oath of office as Sovereign Prince of Monaco. He held that position from 1 June 2005 to 29 March 2010, having been appointed three months earlier by the prince and the French government. \n\nHe was made a Grand Officer of the Order of Saint-Charles (25 March 2010). He was the head of government of Monaco until 2010.\n\nHe died on 8 April 2010 at the age of 70.\n\n"}
{"id": "1997451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997451", "title": "Kabah (band)", "text": "Kabah (band)\n\nKabah is a Mexican group based in Mexico City. It was formed in 1992 and disbanded in 2005. In 2015, they reunited and went on tour with OV7 titled \"Ov7 Kabah Tour.\" They were named after the Maya archeological site. Some of their greatest hits are: \"Vive\", \"La vida que va\", \"Mai mai\", \"Te necesito\", \"Al pasar\", \"Una ilusión\", \"Antro\", \"Estaré\", \"Casi al final\" y \"La calle de las sirenas\".\n\nKabah was formed in 1992 by Federica Quijano and her brother Andres. Their cousin Sergio O'Farrill was next to be added to the group, and later their neighbor and friend Maria José. At the time there were many pop groups in Mexico with four members, so Federica and André decided to add longtime friends René and Daniela, bringing the total to six.\n\nShortly after the addition of these final two members, they did a cover for the group The Party. The song was called \"Encontré El Amor\" (\"I Found Love\"). Shortly after the release of Encontré El Amor, the group recorded this and another song, \"Somos Tan Differentes\" (We are so different) at Gil Brothers studios, forming a two song demo tape\n\nEager to show their talent, they were given the chance to sing their two songs at a popular club. However, they were ill received by the audience and ultimately booed off the stage. Their second show came at the end of 1993 at a kindergarten where Federica worked as a teacher's assistant. For this show, they remade their two songs, giving them a more child friendly feel. This event marked their careers, as they realized they could find greater favor among younger audiences.\n\nDespite their hopes however, they were initially turned down by several producers, such as Cha, Claudio Yarto and Aleks Syntek. It was not until Federica accidentally came across the phone number for Televisa that they found success. After calling Luis de Llano, the only music producer of the network, they were asked to come in for a meeting.\n\nLuis told them about a singing talent show called \"Valores Juveniles\", and suggested they spend a few months practicing for it. They then signed a contract for one album with Polygram Music, and soon after their first album, \"Kabah\", was finished. They then went on to win the talent show with their first song, \"Encontré El Amor.\" The album, which was officially released in 1994, contained four songs written by the group and was a success among the younger population.\n\nThe first album was such a success that Polygram Music decided to sign them and gave them a contract to make two more albums. They started recording a second album which would be titled \"La Calle De Las Sirenas\" (The Street Of The Mermaids). It was released in 1996 and was recorded in Los Angeles. \"La calle de Las Sirenas\" opened many doors for the group, and carried them to international fame.\n\n1998's \"Esperanto\" followed, selling a record of 100,000 copies in the first week. It featured the singles \"Mai, Mai\", \"Una Ilusión\", and \"Esperanto\". In 2000, the next follow-up, \"XNE\", led the group to a more conceptualized image and somewhat darker sound. It also contained \"Amigas y Rivales\", the theme song for the Mexican soap opera \"of the same name\".\n\nIn 2002, they returned to a lighter sound with \"La Vida Que Va\", which was recorded in Norway under the Warner Music label and produced by Ole Evenrude. \"La Vuelta al Mundo\", was released in 2003, and the band's final album, \"El Pop\", was released in 2005. \"El Pop\" featured acoustic versions of a few of their greatest-hits, as well as two new songs. A farewell tour took them all across North America, concluding with a final show on December 31, 2005 on the bay of Acapulco, Mexico.\n\nLate in 2014 Kabah announced, along with OV7, a reunion tour scheduled for 2015. The Ov7 Kabah Tour, has been a major success in Mexico and Latin America with over 60 shows played all over more than 20 cities around Mexico. In 2015, they issued \"OV7 Kabah en Vivo.\" It was released on August 21, 2015.\n\nKabah embarked on a world concert tour called \"90s Pop Tour\" in 2018 and 2019, along with OV7, JNS, Magneto, Calo Mercurio and The Sacados.\n\nStudio albums\n\n\nLive Albums\n\n\nMost of Kabah's members are still active.\n\nMaría José, better known as \"Josa\", released her solo album on March 30, 2007 for the record label Warner Music. The album includes 10 songs, 2 reworked versions of her first single, and one remix of 'Habla Menos'. The first single, 'Quien Eres Tu' (Who Are You) debuted on December 16, 2006.\n\nSergio O'Farrill, Nickname \"Blu\", is an accomplished Designer/Developer, Skydiver and has his own solo project called Moroccoblu. The release of his debut album was expected in 2009 but it was not released. He continues to release songs through his Soundcloud page\n\nFederica Quijano Tapia starred in the movie \"Pamela\", which will be released in theaters in 2007. Since Federica is interested in helping new musical talent, she also founded La Gotera Producciones, a company focused on helping young musicians. After it was made public that she had nude scenes in \"Pamela\", \"Penthouse\" approached her with a contract offer. Federica appeared on the cover of \"Penthouse\" for February 2007 issue. In 2007 and 2008 Federica was a host on Exa TV's program \"KIU\". KIU is a TV show dedicated to inform young adults about sexuality.\n\nDaniela Magun, \"La Dana\", currently works as co-host for \"Pepsi Chart Mexico\". She is also the spokeswomen for Mexico Vivo, a charity organization focused on informing people about HIV and AIDS.\n\n"}
{"id": "1997455", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997455", "title": "Jill Jackson", "text": "Jill Jackson\n\nJill Jackson is the name of:\n"}
{"id": "1997461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997461", "title": "Cuddles Marshall", "text": "Cuddles Marshall\n\nClarence Westly \"Cuddles\" Marshall (April 28, 1925 – December 14, 2007) was an American professional baseball player. He played in Major League Baseball as a relief pitcher for the New York Yankees and St. Louis Browns between 1946 and 1950.\n\nMarshall was born in Bellingham, Washington, and compiled a 7–7 record over four seasons; three with the Yankees, and a final campaign with the Browns. His career ERA was 5.98. Over his career, he walked 158 batters while striking out but 69.\n\nKnown as 'Clancy' in his later years, Marshall recalled that one of the batters he faced in his MLB debut was Ted Williams, who hit a ground ball into a double play. \n\nMarshall was the Yankees pitcher to start the first night game at Yankee Stadium on May 28, 1946.\n\nMarshall died in Valencia, California, at the age of 82, and was buried at Assumption Catholic Cemetery in Simi Valley, California.\n"}
{"id": "1997465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997465", "title": "Richard Stoltzman", "text": "Richard Stoltzman\n\nRichard Leslie Stoltzman (born July 12, 1942) is an American clarinetist. Born in Omaha, Nebraska, he spent his early years in San Francisco, California, and Cincinnati, Ohio, graduating from Woodward High School in 1960. Today, Stoltzman is part of the faculty list at the New England Conservatory and Boston University.\n\nStoltzman is perhaps the best-known clarinetist who primarily plays classical music. He has played with over 100 orchestras, as well as with many chamber groups and in many solo recitals. Stoltzman has received numerous awards and has produced an extensive discography. His virtuosity and musicianship have made him a highly sought-after concert artist.\n\nIn addition to classical repertoire, Stoltzman also plays jazz. Some of his recordings, such as his album \"New York Counterpoint\", feature both jazz and modern music. In 1983, Stoltzman commissioned composer/arranger Clare Fischer to write a symphonic work using Duke Ellington and Billy Strayhorn themes. The result was \"The Duke, Swee'pea and Me\", an eleven-minute orchestral work which Stoltzman performed worldwide.\n\nStoltzman's father worked for the Western Pacific Railroad and moved his family to San Francisco, California, soon after Richard was born. Stoltzman's first exposure to music came through his father, an avid fan of big band music. Stoltzman's father played the big band music of the 1940s at home on the radio and performed in a dance band during his spare time. Stoltzman began studying the clarinet at the age of eight with a teacher at a local school, and he began playing with his father in the Stewart Memorial United Presbyterian Sunday School Orchestra and at community functions within a few years. When Stoltzman was in junior high school, he began developing the jazz techniques of improvisation and enjoyed jamming with his father at home. Benny Goodman was his earliest musical mentor, and remained a strong influence throughout his career. Stoltzman told Allan Kozinn of the New York Times, \"(When) I was seven years old ... I found these wonderful cylindrical objects in a nice leather case. I enjoyed playing with them ... and I vaguely remember dangling them from the second-story window of our house. That caused quite a stir, because they turned out to be my father's clarinets. But instead of punishing me, he decided that I had an interest in the instrument and rented an indestructible metal clarinet for me to start on.\"\n\nStoltzman earned a bachelor's degree from Ohio State University with a double major in music and mathematics. He then studied with Professor Keith Wilson at the Yale School of Music, where he received the Master of Music degree. He worked toward a doctoral degree at Columbia University. He has been a longtime student of master clarinet pedagogue Kalmen Opperman of New York. Together, they founded the Clarinet Summit, a semi-regular international gathering of clarinetists which has taken place since the 1990s. He has also recorded with the Kalmen Opperman Clarinet Choir.\n\nStoltzman has appeared as a soloist with numerous major symphonies, at international jazz festivals, and with stars such as Mel Tormé, George Shearing, Judy Collins, Woody Herman, Wayne Shorter, Chick Corea, Claude Bolling and others. He was a founding member of the chamber music group TASHI in 1973. In 1993, he was featured in the BBC series \"Concerto!\" He was the Guest artist with The Children's Orchestra Society at Alice Tully Hall of Lincoln Center in 2004. He has also given important recitals at Carnegie Hall and the Hollywood Bowl.\n\nHis discography includes nearly 40 releases, several of them with TASHI. Stoltzman is noted for his double lip embouchure, wide vibrato, and ability to mimic the sound of a human voice on the clarinet. He combines traditional and contemporary classical and jazz material with his own unorthodox style.\n\nIn August 1993, Stoltzman was featured in \"Concerto!\", a six-part television series featuring host Dudley Moore, conductor Michael Tilson Thomas and the London Symphony Orchestra. \"Concerto!\", created by the producers of the widely acclaimed \"Orchestra\" series featuring Moore and Sir Georg Solti, was aired on The Learning Channel and on England's Channel Four, and continues to be broadcast worldwide. The program featuring Stoltzman has been praised by critics and audiences alike and was the recipient of an Emmy Award in the International Performing Arts category.\n\nStoltzman has played with many widely recognized musicians, including Yo-Yo Ma, Richard Goode and Emanuel Ax. He has made an effort to play new music for the clarinet, and has had several works composed for him. Composers include: Toru Takemitsu (\"Waves\" and a concerto for clarinet and orchestra), Steve Reich (\"New York Counterpoint\"), Lukas Foss, Roberto Carnevale, and Einar Englund (clarinet concertos).\n\nStoltzman is known for his longtime collaboration with composer William Thomas McKinley, and his work has been featured frequently in recent years on Navona Records and MMC Recording.\n\nA review in the \"New York Times\" said: \"His mastery of the clarinet and his impeccable musicianship are no secret by now, but one who has not heard him play for a time can easily forget how rich and fluid the instrument can sound from top to bottom of its range. If Mr. Stoltzman is not one of a kind, who might the others be?\"\n\nGrammy Award for Best Chamber Music Performance:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1997476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997476", "title": "Rubrospinal tract", "text": "Rubrospinal tract\n\nThe rubrospinal tract is a part of the nervous system. It is a part of the lateral indirect extra-pyramidal tract.\n\nIn the midbrain, it originates in the magnocellular red nucleus, crosses to the other side of the midbrain, and descends in the lateral part of the brainstem tegmentum.\n\nIn the spinal cord, it travels through the lateral funiculus of the spinal cord, coursing adjacent to the lateral corticospinal tract.\n\nIn humans, the rubrospinal tract is one of several major motor control pathways. It is smaller and has fewer axons than the corticospinal tract, suggesting that it is less important in motor control. It is one of the pathways for the mediation of involuntary movement, along with other extra- pyramidal tracts including the vestibulospinal, tectospinal, and reticulospinal tracts. The tract is responsible for large muscle movement regulation flexor and inhibiting extensor tone as well as fine motor control. It terminates primarily in the cervical and thoracic portions of the spinal cord, suggesting that it functions in upper limb but not in lower limb control. \n\nIt is small and rudimentary in humans. In some other primates, however, experiments have shown that over time, the rubrospinal tract can assume almost all the duties of the corticospinal tract when the corticospinal tract is lesioned.\n\n"}
{"id": "1997486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997486", "title": "Joanna, wife of Chuza", "text": "Joanna, wife of Chuza\n\nJoanna ( or \"Ἰωάνα\" ) is a woman mentioned in the gospels who was healed by Jesus and later supported him and his disciples in their travels, one of the women recorded in the Gospel of Luke as accompanying Jesus and the twelve and a witness to Jesus' resurrection. She was the wife of Chuza, who managed the household of Herod Antipas, the ruler of Galilee. Her name means \"Yahweh has been gracious\", a variation of the name \"Anna\" which means \"grace\" or \"favour”. \n\nShe is recognised as a saint in the Anglican, Eastern Orthodox, and Roman Catholic traditions. \n\nJoanna is shown as the wife of Chuza, steward to Herod Antipas while being listed as one of the women who \"had been cured of evil spirits and infirmities\" who accompanied Jesus and the Apostles, and \"provided for Him from their substance\" in . Theologian Adrian Hastings suggested that she could have been one of Luke's sources for information regarding the Herodian court. As the wife of an important court official, she would have had sufficient means needed to travel and contribute to the support of Jesus and the disciples.\n\nJoanna is named among the women mentioned in , who, along with Mary Magdalene and Mary, the mother of James, took spices to Jesus' tomb and found the stone rolled away and the tomb empty. The accounts in the other synoptic gospels do not mention Joanna as one of the group of women who observe Jesus' burial and testify to his Resurrection.\n\nIn Orthodox tradition, she is honored as Saint Joanna the Myrrhbearer (Greek Αγία Ιωάννα η Μυροφόρος) and is commemorated among the eight women who carried myrrh on the \"Sunday of the Myrrhbearers\", two Sundays after Pascha (Orthodox Easter). From this commemoration, in the revised Calendar of Saints of the Lutheran Church–Missouri Synod she is commemorated as one of Myrrhbearers on August 3 together with Mary, the Mother of James the less and Jude and Salome.\n\nAlthough not mentioned by name, Joanna is most likely counted as one of the women who joined the disciples and Mary, the mother of the Lord, in the upper room in prayer. She was among the group of 120 who chose Matthias to fill the vacancy that was left by Judas, as well as being present on the Day of Pentecost.\n\nBoth Richard J. Bauckham and Ben Witherington III conclude that the disciple Joanna is the same woman as the Christian Junia mentioned by Paul in his \"Epistle to the Romans\" (). Most early Greek manuscripts list the name Junia as feminine, with the consensus of New Testament scholarship agreeing that Junia was a woman.\n\nWhile this is possible, in Junia is mentioned along with Andronicus so they may be a husband and wife team like Priscilla and Aquila. If that is the case, it would be unlikely that \"Junia\" is another name for Joanna since Joanna's husband, according to , was Chuza. Though given her freedom to follow Jesus, she may well have been widowed and this was a subsequent marriage.\n\nAn ossuary has been discovered bearing the inscription, \"Johanna, granddaughter of Theophilus, the High Priest.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1997499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997499", "title": "Toxicity (song)", "text": "Toxicity (song)\n\n\"Toxicity\" is a single by Armenian-American alternative metal band System of a Down, released in 2002. It was originally released on the album of the same name. The writing credit for the song is Malakian/Odadjian/Tankian. It is known for its dynamic chorus, aggressive vocals, and prominent drum beat. The song is predominately in triple meter, alternating between , and time. The guitar during the verse plays in using a 2+2+2 phrasing while the heavy part (\"somewhere between the sacred silence and sleep\") makes use of a hemiola with the guitar switching to a 3+3+3+3 pattern while the drums remain in compound duple meter until the bridge. The song was ranked number 14 on VH1's 40 Greatest Metal Songs, and was called a nu metal classic by \"Stylus Magazine\".\n\n\nThe video was directed by Marcos Siega and Shavo Odadjian. The beginning of the video shows the Hollywood Walk of Fame then cuts to the band. Daron Malakian can be seen wearing a Los Angeles Kings jersey with his last name on the back most of the time in the video. A closeup from behind John Dolmayan's drum kit reveals a double bass pedal attachment even though he doesn't use it during the song. During the verses, a projector shows homeless people lined against the streets. After the second chorus, Daron is seen playing the fast riff in fast motion while the band freezes and a crowd slowly appears. The rest of the band resumes as they all come in. The crowd sings along with the band as well as forming a circle pit both in the light and in the dark with glow-sticks. Similar to a scene in the last video where the band was literally eating \"chop suey\", this time they are eating seeds, corresponding with the lyrics \"Eating seeds as a pastime activity\". The final shot of the video is of the Milky Way.\n\nThe song was sampled by American rapper Lil B, on his track \"Im the Rap God\" from 2013's \"05 Fuck Em\" mixtape.\n\nPolish fingerstyle guitarist Marcin Patrzałek released his arrangement of the song in 2016 on YouTube and later on his first EP \"Revamp\" in 2018.\n"}
{"id": "1997500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997500", "title": "Electra (teletext)", "text": "Electra (teletext)\n\nElectra was a teletext service in the United States that was in operation from the early 1980s up until 1993, when it was shut down due to a lack of funding, and discontinuation of teletextapable television sets by the only US television manufacturer offering teletext capability at the time, Zenith. It was owned, operated and maintained by Cincinnati-based Taft Broadcasting (specifically at their flagship station, WKRC-TV, which had debuted the service in their area first) and Tulsa, Oklahoma-based Satellite Syndicated Systems (SSS), in cooperation with cable/satellite TV station Superstation WTBS (now TBS), who carried Electra's data on their vertical blanking interval. The service was also available to C-band satellite dish users via the Galaxy 1 and Satcom 3R satellites.\n\nElectra was America's answer to the British Ceefax or ORACLE systems, providing news headlines, weather, entertainment/lifestyle info, and other information. Electra used the World System Teletext (WST) protocol, the same protocol used by Ceefax and ORACLE, as well as by other teletext services in the rest of the European continent.\n\nElectra also carried another teletext service on its higher-numbered pages, a service called \"Tempo\". Tempo mainly carried stock market quotes, sports and other miscellaneous information on its pages.\n\nElectra was one of the very few American teletext services in operation. A few other services were offered by some large-market TV stations in the US throughout the 1980s, such as \"Metrotext\" from KTTV in Los Angeles and \"KeyFax\" from WFLD in Chicago. \n\nAt the time of Electra's closing in 1993, it was the only teletext service in the United States.\n"}
{"id": "1997513", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997513", "title": "Kalamazoo?", "text": "Kalamazoo?\n\nKalamazoo? is a 2006 American comedy film, directed by David O'Malley and starring Josie Davis, Mayim Bialik and Joanna Clare Scott, who also wrote the screenplay. The movie was filmed entirely in Kalamazoo, Michigan.\n\nCarol (Josie Davis), Maggie (Mayim Bialik) and Joan (Joanna Clare Scott) are three friends who took different ways in their lives. The girls go back to Kalamazoo, Michigan for their 10-year high school reunion, but they discovered that a time capsule placed on their graduation night containing predictions would be opened in one week. Horrified at the thought of having their unfulfilled goals made public, they decide to steal the time capsule and destroy. But they have to deal with the life they left behind, including former loves and family.\n\n\nAdapted from Cine TVX.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1997520", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997520", "title": "Tangail", "text": "Tangail\n\nTangail (, ) formerly Arail city of Greater Mymensingh is a major city of Dhaka Division in the central region of Bangladesh 98 km north-west of Dhaka, the capital. Tangail Mohokuma Upazilla of greater Mymensingh district turned to Tangail district on december 1 1969. It is main urban area of Tangail District. The city is on the bank of Louhajang River. It is the 23rd largest city of Bangladesh\n\nDuring the early 19th century, horse carts were the main transportation medium for carrying goods and passengers in the present city area. A long line of horse carts used to stand at that time. There is a common belief that the name Tangail has been originated from the word tanga meaning horse carts.\n\nTangail was a popular local business centre since the early 19th century. But the name came on focus when the headquarter of a subdivision of the Greater Mymensingh District was shifted in 1860 from Atia to there due to its fertility and high elevation near Louhajong River. At the same time, The subdivision was named as Tangail.\n\nThe Municipal Corporation or pourashava was established on 1 July 1887. During its establishment the town was composed of five wards.\n\nAfterwards, the pourashava was reshaped into four wards:\n\nIn 1988 it was subdivided into six wards:\n\nAfter decisions for a few years, in 1999 the city was subdivided into 18 wards and gained its present shape.\n\nThe first election of the city was held in November 1887. In that election eight ward commissioners from four wards were elected by direct vote of the citizens of the city. On the other hand, the then Subdivision Commissioner of Tangail, Shashi Shekhar Dutt, was appointed as the first administrator of Tangail city. There was no pakka street in this city then. No lamp post could be seen in the roads. In the 1890s the city was lacking safe water supply, too. The regional zamindars and subdivision board came forward and helped financially to dig ponds, lakes and canals. Those sources served the local people with a safe water supply.\n\nIn the early 1900s, the pourashava authority lit the roads for the first time by kerosene lambs. The pourashava gradually became populated in the first half of the 20th century. At that time, many tube wells were set up in the town. The main way of transportation was horse cars in the town. People used cattle for transportation, too.\n\nThe people of Tangail used to visit Kolkata through Charabari by launch and Dhaka through Mymensingh. In the early 1930s, electricity line was first provided in the town. The rickshaws started to roll in town's streets. In the 1960s, pakka roads were constructed in the town. In the meantime, Tangail was directly connected to Dhaka by road. Many bridges and culverts were constructed to develop the area. The town got water by pipelines at that time.\nIn 1985 Tangail City was promoted to 'B Class' from 'C Class'. In 1989 the pourashava was promoted to 'A Class'. In the 1990s, The city was financed by Asian Development Bank and Government of Bangladesh to develop water supply, sanitation, wastewater drainage, bus terminal, supermarkets and other infrastructure.\n\nCricket is the most popular sport in Tangail. Football and kabaddi are also popular. All important sports events of the city are held in Tangail Stadium which is beside Bhashani hall and Tangail Eid-gah. The stadium has hosted national events. It was the home venue of Bangladesh Football Premier League club Team BJMC. It was converted into a cricket stadium in 2015. First Division Cricket is regularly hosted in this venue.\n\nThe total area of Tangail city is 35.22 km2. The government of Bangladesh has planned to expand the city. After expansion it will have a proposed area of 81.75 km2. The city consists of 18 wards and 64 mahallas until 2016.\n\nKaratia is the suburb of Tangail, Besides the old reputed Govt. Saadat College was established here.\n\nIt takes approximately 1 hour and 55 minutes to reach Tangail from Dhaka city, via Kaliakair and Tongi. The distance is around 98 km. From Mohakhali (মহাখালী) bus terminal, several buses run to this city. Among them Nirala, Dhaleshwari, Jhatika and High Choice are notable.\n\nSeveral trains are available from Dhaka to Tangail. Among them the most popular is \"Sirajganj Express\". Other notable intercity trains that stop in Tangail railway station are Padma Express, Ekota Express, Nilsagor Express, Silk City Express,tangail express, Sundarban Express, Drutojan Express, Rangpur Express etc. Some local trains stop in the station, too. Those are Rajshahi Express, Rajshahi Mail, Rangpur Express, Fast Passenger, etc.\nJamuna Bridge, the largest bridge of Bangladesh, is situated here. Through this bridge, it is connected to sirajganj\n\n\n\nThe literacy rate of the city area is 71.8%.\n\nThere are eight notable high schools in the city:\n\n\nFurthermore, Govt. Saadat College in karatia, Tangail Medical College, Bangabandhu Textile Engineering College, Textile Institute of Tangail and Tangail Polytechnic Institute are located here. There is a technological university named Mawlana Bhashani Science and Technology University in Santosh, Tangail.\n\nThe majority of Tangail city's people are Muslims (88.2%) like most other parts of Bangladesh. Other religious groups include Hindus (11.7%), Christians (0.08%) and Buddhists (0.02%).\n\n\nNayeem, Film Actor\n\nAmit Hassan, Film Actor\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1997522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997522", "title": "William McLean Hamilton", "text": "William McLean Hamilton\n\nWilliam McLean Hamilton, (February 23, 1919 – June 7, 1989) was a Canadian politician.\n\nHe was born in Montreal, Quebec, Canada. His father, Ernest Hamilton, was a lacrosse player who won a gold medal at the 1908 Summer Olympics. He was a student at the Montreal High School and he took a B.Sc from Sir George Williams University in business administration.\n\nHe sat on Montreal City Council and the Executive Council of Montreal.\n\nHe was elected to parliament in the 1953 election as a Progressive Conservative for the riding of Notre-Dame-de-Grâce. In his maiden speech to Parliament in November he accused the very conservative Liberal government led by Louis St. Laurent of being socialists. His criticisms were based on the government being corporatistic and taking an interest in private business activities.\n\nFollowing the 1957 election, he was appointed Postmaster General of Canada by John Diefenbaker. In that office he annoyed many of his colleagues by not permitting the post office to be used a reward for party supporters. He also drew ire by attempting to close many small and inefficient post offices.\n\nDespite his staunch fiscal conservatism and anti-communism, he was a supporter of the Quebec Liberal Party over the Union Nationale. Hamilton disliked the corruption of the Union Nationale and their infusion of strict Catholicism into Quebec politics. Hamilton was an Anglican.\n\nHe resigned as Postmaster General on July 12, 1962 after he was defeated in the 1962 election by Edmund Tobin Asselin. Hamilton could not speak French, and it was a more important issue in 1962 than it had been previously.\n\nAfter his defeat Hamilton left Montreal for Vancouver where he ran a business.\n\nIn 1978 he was made an Officer of the Order of Canada.\n\n"}
{"id": "1997525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997525", "title": "Jim Davenport", "text": "Jim Davenport\n\nJames Houston \"Peanut\" Davenport (August 17, 1933 – February 18, 2016) was a Major League Baseball infielder (mostly third baseman) who played his entire career with the San Francisco Giants (1958–1970). The right-handed batter and thrower attended the University of Southern Mississippi.\n\nDavenport grew up in Siluria, Alabama, the hometown of future teammate Willie Kirkland, and not far from Willie Mays' hometown. Growing up, Davenport had wanted to play football for the University of Alabama. However, Davenport married after high school and Alabama had a policy of not recruiting married players. Instead, he earned a football scholarship to the University of Southern Mississippi (then called Mississippi Southern College), where he played quarterback and also joined the baseball team. In 1952 and 1953, he beat an Alabama football team who were quarterbacked both times by Bart Starr. In 1954, Davenport hit .439 for the Southern Miss baseball team, and signed a professional contract with the Giants after the season.\n\nDavenport made his major league debut with the San Francisco Giants on April 15, 1958, taking the team's first at-bat on the West Coast, striking out against Don Drysdale of the Los Angeles Dodgers at Seals Stadium. His best season was 1962, when he batted .297 with 14 home runs and 58 RBIs and made the All-Star team for the only time in his career. \n\nDavenport was known for his fielding, leading National League third basemen in fielding percentage each season from 1959–61 and winning a Gold Glove at third base in 1962. Davenport played 97 consecutive errorless games at third base from July 26, 1966 to April 28, 1968, a record that stood until it was broken by John Wehner in the 1990s.\n\nHe played one World Series in 1962, which the Giants lost to the New York Yankees. He had a career batting average of .258 with 77 home runs and 456 RBIs, with 1142 career hits in 4427 at bats. He played in 1501 games in 13 years, the fourth-most in San Francisco Giants history after Willie McCovey (2,256), Willie Mays (2,095) and Barry Bonds (1,976). His 1,130 games played at third base are the most in Giants' history.\n\nAfter retiring as a player, Davenport managed the minor league Phoenix Giants for three years (1971–73), and then coached in the San Diego Padres organization for two years (1974–75). He returned to the Giants as their third base coach from 1976–82.\n\nDavenport was promoted to manager of the San Francisco Giants in 1985, but was replaced before the end of the season by Roger Craig after compiling a 56–88 record. The 1985 team went on to lose 100 games in the worst season in franchise history (to date, it is also the only time the team has ever hit the triple-digit mark in losses). He then worked briefly for the Philadelphia Phillies (1988), Cleveland Indians (1989), and Detroit Tigers (1991–92). He returned to the Giants organization for good in 1993, and served as the Giants' first base coach in 1996. Overall, Davenport worked in the Giants organization for 51 years in various roles, including player, coach, scout, manager, and a minor-league instructor.\n\nDavenport was inducted into the Southern Miss Athletic Hall of Fame as a quarterback in 1968. He was inducted into the Mississippi Sports Hall of Fame in 1983. In 2006, Davenport was inducted into the Alabama Sports Hall of Fame.\n\nHe married his high school sweetheart, Betty, and had five children, a daughter and four sons. His son Gary Davenport played minor league baseball in the Giants organization and has coached in the Giants' minor league system since 2004. Davenport lived in San Carlos, California and worked in the Giants' front office until his death on February 18, 2016. He is buried in Skylawn Memorial Park near San Francisco. The Giants wore a patch in his memory for the 2016 season, a black circle with an orange outline and his nickname \"Davvy\" and his number 12, to be worn on the left sleeve, below Monte Irvin's memorial patch.\n\n"}
{"id": "1997535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997535", "title": "Patricia Charbonneau", "text": "Patricia Charbonneau\n\nPatricia Charbonneau (born April 19, 1959) is an American actress, perhaps best known for playing the part of Cay Rivvers in \"Desert Hearts,\" her first film role.\n\nPatricia Charbonneau was born in Valley Stream, New York on Long Island, the youngest of 10 children. Her father, a retired businessman, is French; her mother is Austrian. She graduated in 1977 from Valley Stream Central High School, which she attended with fellow actors Steve Buscemi and Steve Hytner, as well as writer Ed Renehan. She later attended Boston University as a theater major, and left after a month to take a position with the Lexington Conservatory Theatre company in the Catskills. The story of the Conservatory Theater is chronicled in the documentary \"The Loss of Nameless Things\".\n\nIn addition to work with the Lexington Conservatory Theatre, Charbonneau worked on the New York stage in a production of \"Revengers...A Tragedea\", at Playwrights Horizons. She then became a member of the Actors Theatre of Louisville, where she originated the role of Lea in \"My Sister in this House\", a part that she also played Off-Broadway.\n\nIn 1985, Charbonneau made her film debut in Donna Deitch's film \"Desert Hearts\" at a time when it was still considered a risk to portray a lesbian in a romantic drama - complete with a lengthy love scene. Charbonneau told The Globe and Mail, \"Kissing Helen wasn't the hard part, really. The hard part was walking out on the set naked and just standing there.\" Two days before shooting began, Charbonneau found out that she was pregnant (by her rock musician husband Vincent Caggiano) with her first child, whom she once called her \"Desert Hearts baby.\" \n\nFor her performance in \"Desert Hearts\", Charbonneau was nominated for a 1987 Independent Spirit Award for Best Female Lead.\n\nIn the following year she appeared in Michael Mann's \"Manhunter\" (based on the novel \"Red Dragon\") and then played Anna, the lead, in \"Call Me\" (1988), which also featured fellow Valley Streamer Buscemi. The same year, she was featured in the crime drama/action movie \"Shakedown\". Her television work began with a 1986 NBC pilot \"C.A.T. Squad\" and continued with dozens of appearances, including HBO's \"Tales from the Crypt, Crime Story, The Equalizer, Wiseguy, Murder She Wrote, Matlock, New York Undercover,\" and \".\" In the 1990 film \"RoboCop 2\", she played the role of Linda Garcia. Despite the character's prominence in the movie's plot, her name is never spoken, and the role was not listed in the credits; observant fans were able to determine the character's name by noticing that she wore a name tag. In 1995, she starred in \"Mission Critical\", a Legend Entertainment sci-fi adventure game. She played one of James Garner's daughters in the 1999 CBS made-for-TV film \"One Special Night\", which featured Julie Andrews.\n\nIn March 2007, Charbonneau joined the faculty of the Hudson Valley Academy of Performing Arts in West Taghkanic, New York where she teaches an acting workshop for children and teens.\n\nCharbonneau met musician Vincent Caggiano in 1978, and four years later they wed. Later they had a daughter.\n\n"}
{"id": "1997536", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997536", "title": "Skagit Valley", "text": "Skagit Valley\n\nThe Skagit Valley lies in the northwestern corner of the state of Washington, United States. Its defining feature is the Skagit River, which snakes through local communities which include the seat of Skagit County, Mount Vernon, as well as Sedro-Woolley, Concrete, Lyman-Hamilton, and Burlington.\n\nThe local newspaper is \"Skagit Valley Herald\", published in Mount Vernon, Washington.\n\nBetween 1967 and 1983, there was a plan by Puget Sound Power and Light Co. to build two nuclear power plants in Skagit Valley, but due to controversy, these plans were shelved.\n\nThe Skagit Valley Tulip Festival is a spring festival attended by thousands of visitors.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1997540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997540", "title": "WERS", "text": "WERS\n\nWERS (88.9 FM) is one of Emerson College's two radio stations (the other being campus station WECB), located in Boston, Massachusetts. Student-run and professionally managed, it serves eastern New England an eclectic mix of musical genres, and more live performances than any other station in the region. Programming features over 20 different styles of music and news, including live performances and interviews. WERS stands as the first non-commercial radio station in New England, and has been in operation since November 1949. Among the founders of the station was WEEI program director Arthur F. Edes, who first taught broadcasting courses at Emerson in 1932 and helped to plan a campus radio station. The chief architect of WERS in its early years was Professor Charles William Dudley.\n\nIn June 2007, WERS inaugurated a translator station on 96.5 MHz in New Bedford, Massachusetts, relaying WERS's programming to New Bedford and nearby communities. Another translator, on 101.5 MHz in Gloucester, Massachusetts, on Cape Ann, went on the air in July 2008.\n\nAccording to The Princeton Review, WERS is the #1 college radio station in America, an award the station has won or come close to winning almost every year since The Princeton Review started ranking colleges.\n\nWERS is the most highly rated student-run college radio station in the US. In the Boston market (10th largest in the nation), WERS's daytime programming usually ranks at 20th to 25th.\n\nWERS has an eclectic block format. It has a Triple A \"Daytime\" format between 2 am and 10 pm Monday through Friday. On weeknights WERS has an urban format, R&B slow-jams and soul on \"The Secret Spot.\" A directive from the college resulted in the cancellation of their Reggae show \"Rockers\" and Hip-Hop show \"88.9@Night.\"\n\nOn weekends the station features \"Family-Friendly\" programming, which includes \"The Playground\" (kids' music) Saturdays from 6 am to 10 am and Sundays from 6 am to 7 am (formerly broadcast on Saturday and Sunday evenings); \"Standing Room Only\" (showtunes) on Saturdays from 10 am to 2 pm and Sundays from Noon to 2 pm; and \"All A Capella\" on Saturdays and Sundays from 2 pm to 4 pm. On Sundays they broadcast Yiddish Klezmer and Israeli Music from 8 am to 11 am and services from the First Church in Boston Unitarian Universalist from 11 am to Noon.\n\nWERS also features news programming on weekdays during drive time commutes, and the award-winning public affairs show \"You Are Here\" Sunday mornings from 7 to 8 am.\n\nWERS podcasts \"You Are Here\", available at wers.org.\n\nIn the late 1990s and mid-2000s, WERS featured a successful sports-themed program, “Sports Sunday”, which aired Sundays from noon to 2 pm. The program won three consecutive Associated Press annual awards for student sports programming (2002, 2003, and 2004.) Guests of the show included former basketball great Bill Walton, \"Boston Globe\" columnist Kevin Paul DuPont, Hockey East commissioner Joe Bertagna, former Northeastern University Men’s Hockey head coach Bruce Crowder, InsideHockey.com columnist James Murphy, and NHL.com columnist Bob Snow.\n\nFormer show hosts include Lon Nichols (current anchor for KLKN in Lincoln, Nebraska), Lowell Galindo (current ESPNU anchor), Tom Gauthier (current radio broadcaster and director of media relations for the Bowling Green Hot Rods), Justin Termine (current anchor and producer for NBA Radio on Sirius), Mike Gastonguay (interned as an associate producer for KXTA’s “Loose Cannons”), Matt Porter (\"Palm Beach Post\" Miami Hurricanes beat reporter), Steve Crowe (\"Boston Globe\" part-timer) and Ryan Heisler (noted triathlete).\n\n"}
{"id": "1997554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997554", "title": "Jeff Foust", "text": "Jeff Foust\n\nJeff Foust is an aerospace analyst, journalist and publisher. A senior aerospace analyst with the Futron Corporation in Bethesda, Maryland, he is the editor and publisher of \"The Space Review\" and has written for \"Astronomy Now\" and \"The New Atlantis\". He is the writer of the blog Space Politics.\n\nHe has a bachelor's degree in geophysics from the California Institute of Technology and a Ph.D in planetary sciences from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1997564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997564", "title": "Protestant Episcopal Cathedral Foundation", "text": "Protestant Episcopal Cathedral Foundation\n\nThe Protestant Episcopal Cathedral Foundation was chartered by Congress on January 6, 1893 and oversees Washington National Cathedral and its sister institutions. The Bishop of the Episcopal Diocese of Washington serves as its Chief Executive Officer.\n\nThe five organizations it oversees are (founding dates in parentheses):\n"}
{"id": "1997568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997568", "title": "SCOUT eh!", "text": "SCOUT eh!\n\nSCOUT eh! is an organization of \"registered Scouts Canada members dedicated to transforming Scouts Canada into a democratic association\". The name is an acronym for \"Scouts Canada Ordinary-member Unity Taskforce Association\". SCOUT eh! was founded in August, 2004. As of September, 2006 it had over 700 members from every Scouts Canada council and Canadian province.\n\nSCOUT eh! was formed in response to a restructuring within Scouts Canada leading to what its members considered to be a non democratic management structure.\n\nIn the late 1990s, Scouts Canada embarked on a restructuring process aimed at addressing the ongoing problem of membership decline. A team wrote what was officially known as the Millennium Report. The report described a dramatically more centralized and staff-directed structure for the association. The report was extremely unpopular with some portions of Scouts Canada's membership, especially those at the District level. Scouts Canada formally set aside the report, but continued work on restructuring.\n\nIn 2000, Scouts Canada replaced its General By-Law with By-Law No. 1. The amendments replaced the 52-member National Council with a 23-member Board of Governors and divided the membership into Ordinary Members, who have no voting rights; and Voting Members, a group of 100 or fewer people who elect the Board and vote on matters presented to the national Annual General Meeting.\n\n2002 saw the implementation of restructuring. Scouts Canada passed By-Law No. 2 which replaced the Provincial, Regional, and District Councils with 20 new councils, comprising an entire province or a large part of a province. Councils are led by a Council Commissioner, appointed by Scouts Canada's volunteer Chief Commissioner. The Districts were transformed into Areas overseen by an Area Commissioner appointed by and accountable to the Council Commissioner. Scouts Canada's Ontario Incorporated Body, which is the trustee for most of the Scout camps in Ontario, began a property review process.\n\nBy 2004, dissatisfaction existed among some of Scouts Canada's membership. While some of the national leadership and staff considered the restructuring to be a success, some others at the local level objected to the changes and found the new system to be ineffective at helping Scouters deliver the program.\nThe first SCOUT eh! gathering, referred to as CAMP eh! was held September 24–26, 2004 at Camp Timken near Iona in Ontario. Two-dozen Scouters including Scouters from Ontario, Quebec, and Newfoundland gathered to learn about the issues, discuss strategy, and draft a constitution for the association.\n\nThe property review had become public knowledge and Scouters were worried about losing local camps. An information session at an April, 2004 Scouts Canada conference near Toronto did not reassure all the membership. In the middle of that summer, Scouts Canada produced a list of Scout camps they wanted to close. During this time some volunteers spearheaded the creation of a committee aimed at giving the disenfranchised membership direct management of the management and direction of Scouts Canada.\n\nSCOUT eh! has been a watchdog for Scouts Canada's finances. In 2006 it published that due to a claimed fall in members, financial issues and \"top-heavy management\", Scouts Canada may not have been able to last much past the summer 2007 centennial celebrations. In 2007 it expressed concerns that Scouts Canada faced potential bankruptcy due to a $6-million unfunded pension liability. Scouts Canada denied the claims.\n\nIn September 2006, SCOUT eh! announced it had surpassed 700 members nationally. During 2006 SCOUT eh! campaigned against Bill S-1001, The Scouts Canada Act. On Monday, December 4, 2006 SCOUT eh! made their case to the Standing Senate Committee on Legal and Constitutional Affairs. In 2007 SCOUT eh! petitioned the government, arguing that;\n\nIn 2007, Scouts Canada announced Policy 1014 which requires that each council's Voting Members be elected by representatives of the council, and its areas and groups. While it acknowledged that the system is an improvement, SCOUT eh! criticized the policy because:\n\nIn 2009 a campaign was launched against the sale of part of the Haliburton Scout Reserve, a 20 square kilometre (5000 acre) Scout camp located east of Haliburton, Ontario described as Canada's largest Scout Camp. The organisation formed an online campaign against the sale of a 100-acre parcel of land for $1.3 million.\n\n"}
{"id": "1997571", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997571", "title": "Registrar of Companies", "text": "Registrar of Companies\n\nA registrar of companies is a public authority which is responsible for managing a companies register.\n\nThe Registrar of Companies for England, Wales & Scotland is the official responsible for Companies House, which deals with all filings relating to the Companies Act 1985 to 2006. Companies House ensures that the document filings are kept up to date and deals with any breaches of the Companies Act.\n\nThe Registrar of Companies for England & Wales is Louise Smyth, who is based at Companies House, Cardiff. \n\nThe Registrar of Companies for Scotland is Lisa Davis, who is based at Companies House, Edinburgh.\n\nThe Registrar of Companies for Northern Ireland is Helen Shilliday, whose office is based in Belfast.\n\nIndia has one registrar of companies for each of the below regions. Each state typically has one registrar office or shares an office with neighbouring states and/or union territories. Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu are the only states to have two offices and two registrar of companies. Puducherry is the only union territory to have its own office.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1997592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997592", "title": "Julie Strain", "text": "Julie Strain\n\nJulie Strain (born February 18, 1962) is an American actress and model who was \"Penthouse\" Pet of the Month in June 1991 and later chosen as the magazine's Pet of the Year in 1993.\n\nStrain was born in Concord, California. A graduate of Diablo Valley College, she has an extensive athletic background. She eventually made her way to Las Vegas and later Hollywood, California.\n\nWith over 100 films to her credit, Strain has come to be known as the \"Queen of the B-movies\". In addition, she was \"Penthouse\" Pet of the Month for June 1991 and \"Penthouse\" Pet of the Year for 1993. She has also had her likeness attached to numerous comic book characters and animation items. For example, she did the voice acting for the main character in the animated movie \"Heavy Metal 2000\" and was the basis for the third-person shooter \"\".\n\nStrain is tall.\n\nStrain was married to Kevin Eastman from 1995 to 2006, and is mother to a son, Shane (born 2006). Much of her youth was wiped from her memory, as she suffered a case of retrograde amnesia due to a severe head injury suffered in a fall from a horse. In November 2018, it was announced that she was in the late stages of dementia, believed to be a result of that injury, and was receiving hospice care at home.\n\nIn January 2020, it was reported that Strain had died, but these claims were proven false.\n\nIn 1997, \"Heavy Metal\" published Strain's autobiography, \"Six Foot One and Worth the Climb\". It was heavily illustrated with stills from her film and modeling career, plus paintings by Boris Vallejo, Julie Bell and Olivia De Berardinis.\n\n"}
{"id": "1997594", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997594", "title": "Loco moco", "text": "Loco moco\n\nLoco moco is a dish featured in contemporary Hawaiian cuisine. There are many variations, but the traditional loco moco consists of white rice, topped with a hamburger, a fried egg, and brown gravy. Variations may include bacon, ham, Spam, tofu, kalua pork, Portuguese sausage, teriyaki beef, teriyaki chicken, mahi-mahi, shrimp, oysters, and other meats. \"Loco Moco\" is also the name of a Hawaii- based restaurant chain that serves Hawaiian rice bowl dishes.\n\nThe dish was reportedly created at the Lincoln Grill restaurants in Hilo, Hawaii, in 1949 by its proprietors, Richard Inouye and his wife Nancy, at the request of teenagers from the Lincoln Wreckers Sports club seeking something that differed from a sandwich, was inexpensive, and yet could be quickly prepared and served. They asked Nancy to put some rice in a bowl, a hamburger patty over the rice, and then top it with brown gravy. The egg came later. The teenagers named the dish Loco Moco after one of their members, George Okimoto, whose nickname was \"Crazy\". George Takahashi, who was studying Spanish at Hilo High School, suggested using Loco, which is Spanish for crazy. They tacked on \"moco\" which \"rhymed with loco and sounded good\". To Spanish-speakers, however, the name can sound very odd, given that they hear it as \"crazy snot\" (\"moco\" is Spanish for \"mucus\").\n\nThis dish was featured on the \"Taste of Hawai'i\" episode of \"Girl Meets Hawai'i\", a Travel Channel show hosted by Samantha Brown. The episode features the dish being served at the popular restaurant, Hawaiian Style Cafe, in Waimea together with the plate lunch, another Hawaiian specialty dish.\n\nThe loco moco was also featured on a Honolulu-based episode of the Travel Channel show \"Man v. Food\" (this episode aired in the show's second season). The host, Adam Richman, tried the dish at the Hukilau Café, located in nearby Laie. Richman also tried an off-the-menu loco moco at a San Francisco eatery called Namu Gaji on his 2014 show, \"Man Finds Food\". In 2018, on a different episode of the revived \"Man v. Food\", host Casey Webb tried a loaded version of the loco moco at Da Kitchen in Maui.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1997596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997596", "title": "Peter Howson", "text": "Peter Howson\n\nPeter Howson OBE (born 27 March 1958 in London, England,) is a Scottish painter. He was a British official war artist in the 1993 Bosnian Civil War.\n\nPeter Howson was born in London of Scottish parents and moved with his family to Prestwick, Ayrshire, when he was four. He was raised in a religious family and the first ever painting he did was a Crucifixion, when he was 6 years old.\n\nHis work has encompassed a number of themes. His early works are typified by very masculine working class men, most famously in \"The Heroic Dosser\" (1987). Later he was commissioned by the Imperial War Museum of London, to be the official war artist for the Bosnian/Hercegovina under Serbian and Croatian aggression in 1993. Here he produced some of his most shocking and controversial work detailing the atrocities which were taking place at the time, like \"Plum Grove\" (1994). One painting in particular, \"Croatian and Muslim\", detailing a rape created controversy partly because of its explicit subject matter but also because Howson had painted it from the victims' accounts. He was the official war painter at the Kosovo War for the \"London Times\".\n\nIn more recent years his work has exhibited strong religious themes which some say is linked to the treatment of his alcoholism and drug addiction at the Castle Craig Hospital in Peebles in 2000, after which he converted to Christianity. An example of this is \"Judas\" (2002) which \n\nHis work has appeared in other media, with his widest exposure arguably for a British postage stamp he did in 1999 to celebrate engineering achievements for the millennium. In addition his work has been used on album covers by Live (\"Throwing Copper\"), The Beautiful South (\"Quench\") and Jackie Leven (\"Fairytales for Hardmen\"). His work is exhibited in many major collections.\n\nHowson was appointed Officer of the Order of the British Empire (OBE) in the 2009 Birthday Honours. In November 2010, BBC Scotland aired a documentary named \"The Madness of Peter Howson\" which followed the final stages of the completion of a grand commission for show in the renovated St Andrew's Cathedral and also dealt with Howson's struggle with mental illness and Asperger's syndrome.\n\nIn September 2014, Howson suggested he would hand back his OBE, predominantly because of his dislike of British foreign policy but it is not clear if he ever did so.\n\nMonographs\n\nExhibition Catalogues\n\n"}
{"id": "1997601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997601", "title": "Crown of Queen Adelaide", "text": "Crown of Queen Adelaide\n\nThe Crown of Queen Adelaide was the consort crown of the British queen Adelaide of Saxe-Meiningen, wife of King William IV. It was used at Adelaide's coronation in 1831. It was emptied of its jewels soon afterwards, and has never been worn since.\n\nSince the 1690s English and British queens consort had been crowned with the Crown of Mary of Modena, first made for the wife of King James II. However criticism of the continued use of this crown had mounted, for reasons of age, size, state of repair and because it was seen to be too theatrical and undignified. In the preparations for the coronation in 1831 it was ruled that the Modena crown was \"unfit for Her Majesty's use\". Plans were made for the creation of a new consort crown.\n\nThe new crown followed British crown tradition in having four half arches, meeting a globe, on top of which sat a cross. The Queen had objected to the standard practice of hiring diamonds and jewels for a crown prior to its use. Instead diamonds from her own private jewellery were installed in her new crown. Following the coronation, the diamonds were all removed, and the crown stored as a shell.\n\nSince Queen Adelaide, all British queens consort have had their own special consort crown made for them, rather than wearing the crowns of any of their predecessors. Later consort crowns were made for Alexandra of Denmark (1902), Mary of Teck (1911) and Lady Elizabeth Bowes-Lyon (1937).\n\nQueen Adelaide's crown, emptied of its jewels and discarded by the Royal Family, was loaned to the Museum of London by the Amherst family from 1933 until 1985. It was purchased by Asprey in 1987 and later acquired by Jefri Bolkiah, Prince of Brunei, who presented it to the United Kingdom. It had been valued at £425,000 in 1995 for the purposes of an application to export the crown to the United States. The application was withdrawn during a review by the Reviewing Committee on the Export of Works of Art. It is part of the Royal Collection and has been on public display in the Martin Tower at the Tower of London since 1996.\n\n"}
{"id": "1997603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997603", "title": "Dragon Ball GT: Final Bout", "text": "Dragon Ball GT: Final Bout\n\nDragon Ball GT: Final Bout, known in Japan and Europe as , is a fighting game for the PlayStation. Despite the name, the game's story has no direct correlation to the anime series \"Dragon Ball GT\", and the cast of playable characters is an equal mix of characters from \"Dragon Ball GT\" and its predecessor series \"Dragon Ball Z\". It was developed and released by Bandai in Japan, France, Spain, and North America in 1997, making it the first North American release for a \"Dragon Ball\" video game. Reviews for the game from North American publications were largely negative.\n\nThe game was reissued in Europe in 2002 and in North America in 2004. The game shares the distinction of being the first \"Dragon Ball\" game to be rendered in full 3D, and the last \"Dragon Ball\" game produced for the PlayStation. There would not be another \"Dragon Ball\" game for consoles until the release of \"\" in 2002.\n\nThe game is similar to other fighters, playing out entirely in two dimensions but featuring 3D environments and characters from the \"Z\" and \"GT\" series of the \"Dragon Ball\" franchise. The fighters can fly to almost any point on the playing field. Unique in the game are the special ki attacks called a \"Special Knockout Trick\". These are the spectacular versions of the character's ki attacks the character performs at a distance. When these attacks are performed, the camera cuts and pans to the attacking character, who powers up and fires. During the attacking character's power up, the opposing character has the opportunity to either retaliate or block when the word counter flashes on the lower right hand corner of the screen. If the player chooses to retaliate, they too power up and fire a ki attack, causing a power crossfire. Whichever player presses their beam button the fastest will push their opponent's super back and force their own super to damage their opponent. Another feature which was carried over from \"\", is a technique called \"Meteor Smash\". With a key combo, players can ignite a chain of mêlée attacks.\n\nThe standard mode, subdivided in \"Vs Man\", where a player can face another player, and \"Vs Com\", where the player fights a series of random CPU-controlled opponents and a final boss.\n\nSubdivided in \"The Tournament\", in which up to 8 characters (either human or computer controlled) fight in a single-round elimination tournament, and \"Build up the Tournament\", where the characters are carried over from Build Up Mode, loaded from the memory card.\n\nCarried over from \"\", this feature gives the player the chance to train a character of their choosing and save them via a memory card. Unlike \"Ultimate Battle 22\", this version of the mode allows to build the characters' strength to triple digit levels, and comes with an experience chart in the character's profile. Like \"Ultimate Battle 22\", players have the opportunity to battle their friends with their character in the option called Build Up Battle.\n\nThe game's roster features a unique match-up from the \"Dragon Ball Z\" and \"GT\" series, primarily starting with the principal cast from the \"GT\" series: Goku, Trunks, and Pan. Regarding the latter, this was also the first game to feature her, while other characters Vegeta, Gohan, Piccolo, Cell, Frieza, and Buu came straight from the Z series. The only unplayable character is Baby Vegeta in his Oozaru form, serving as the game's final boss. The unlockable characters consist of the adult Super Saiyan form of Goku in his \"GT\" outfit, the Super Saiyan forms of \"GT\" kid Goku and Trunks, \"Z\" series Super Saiyan Goku, Super Saiyan Future Trunks, Vegeto and the Super Saiyan 4 form of Goku.\n\nThe original Japanese release of the game was unique for its naming conventions for all the characters. All the adult incarnations of Goku are referred by his full name \"Son Goku\" (孫悟空) while his child incarnation is referred simply as \"Goku\" (悟空), and his Z series incarnation is presented in all capital rōmaji \"SON GOKOU\". GT Trunks is referred by his katakana \"トランクス\", while Future Trunks is presented in all capital English text \"TRUNKS\". Nearly all Super Saiyan characters are referred with the prefix Super (超), and Super Saiyan 4 Goku is referred as \"Super 4 Son Goku\" (超4孫悟空). This also applies to the super form of Oozaru Baby Vegeta who is referred as \"Super Baby\" (スーパーベビー). Both Vegeta and Vegito are simply referred as Vegeta and Vegetto and not Super Vegeta and Super Vegito despite they are both in Super Saiyan form. Finally, Kid Buu is referred as simply \"Buu\" (ブウ).\n\nBandai kept \"Final Bout\" under wraps for most of its development. Responding to rumors that \"\" was being released in the U.S., Jeff Rotter, associate producer of Bandai of America, said that negotiations were underway to bring a \"Dragon Ball Z\" game to North America, but did not identify the game. \"Final Bout\"s surprise unveiling at the 1997 Tokyo Toy Show came when the game was half-finished and less than six months away from its Japanese release.\n\nThe composition was done once again by Kenji Yamamoto. Out of all the pieces used in game, only five were new material, and the rest were remixed arrangements of previously used music from both 16- and 32-bit eras. The game also featured four brand new songs, the opening theme \"Biggest Fight\", the closing themes \"Kimi o Wasurenai\" and \"Thank You\", and Goku's Super Saiyan 4 theme \"Hero of Heroes\". All of these songs were performed by Hironobu Kageyama with Kuko providing backup vocals. On September 16, 1997, nine of the compositions and the four songs were released by Zain Records exclusive in Japan as . The Future Trunks theme arrangement \"Hikari no Willpower\" was featured as a hidden bonus track.\n\nThe game was first released in Japan in 1997 under its original title \"Dragon Ball: Final Bout\". It fared well enough in sales to be reissued under the \"PlayStation the Best for Family\" series a year later. In parts of Europe (France, Belgium, Spain and Portugal), the game was also released under the name \"Dragon Ball: Final Bout\" in 1997.\n\nIn North America, the game was released as \"Dragon Ball GT: Final Bout\", and it was the first time a \"Dragon Ball\" video game was released in North America with the \"Dragon Ball\" license intact. Due to \"Dragon Ball's\" obscurity at the time, Bandai America only produced 10,000 copies of the game.\n\nIn 2002, the game saw a release in the UK, along with other European countries that previously didn't officially receive the game, though it had already seen widespread distribution through the grey market. Finally, under little fanfare, Atari reissued the game in 2004 with brand new artwork supplied by Toei Animation. This release coincided with Funimation's dub of \"Dragon Ball GT\".\n\nWhen the game was released throughout North America, several changes were made for localization. Dialog by the Japanese voice actors was replaced, but not by the then current voice cast at Ocean Group. Instead, Bandai America decided to use an uncredited cast of U.S. voice talent. However, the battle voices still consist of the Japanese voice cast, causing the character voices to clash. The game's opening theme, \"Biggest Fight\", was replaced with an untitled instrumental rock track. The cast credits at the end of the game, also set to \"Biggest Fight\", were removed completely. The two closing songs \"Kimi o Wasurenai\" and \"Thank You!\" remain instrumental even when the game is beaten on normal and difficult settings. However, Super Saiyan 4 Goku's theme, \"Hero of Heroes\", was left unchanged. At the title screen, the game's sound test is available, whereas in the original Japanese players could only access it with a cheat code. The Buildup data transfer option was removed due to the fact \"Ultimate Battle 22\" had not been released at that time. When the game was reissued in 2004, the game's data was not altered in any way from its 1997 North American release by Bandai.\n\nThe European 1997 version, like with most European \"Dragon Ball Z\" games from the 16-bit and 32-bit era, was released mostly unaltered from the Japanese version, featuring the original Japanese voice acting and the opening theme \"Biggest Fight\". The game text was only translated to French and other languages besides English because of the lack of official release in any English-speaking country. When the game was re-issued in Europe in 2002 (which included a release for the first time in English-speaking countries like the UK), the game was kept the same as the previous European version except for the texts being re-translated to English.\n\nCommentary on the game has varied widely; while most reviews were negative, they gave differing reasons for why the game failed. Some of the more common criticisms were that the pace is too slow, the camera is jerky and confusing due to a lack of panning and opponents' ability to move out of view, and the controls respond too slowly to button presses. American critic Jeff Gerstmann reviewed the Japanese release of the game as an import for \"GameSpot\", despite acknowledging that a U.S. release was a near certainty by this time. He praised the visual spectacle of the beam clashes, but found the gameplay suffers from a lack of variety in both the characters and the move sets. \"IGN\" also found the move sets lacking, but primarily criticized the controls, concluding, \"If you're a Dragon Ball Z fan, then you may like this game, simply because it stars all your favorite Dragon Ball characters. But to be honest, you might as well go out and buy all the toys -- at least they're more controllable.\" \"GamePro\" instead focused criticism on the Meteo moves, which the reviewer called \"one of the cheapest, longest-lasting special moves in fighting history\". He also derided the sparse backgrounds, breakup in the character models, and childish taunts.\n\nThe game did receive positive assessments from most of the four-person \"Electronic Gaming Monthly\" review crew, with Sushi-X calling it \"a 'guru game', a game that stretches our abilities with a game engine so complex to master, yet simple enough for a beginner\" and taking a more positive perspective on the taunts, describing them as \"hilarious\". Co-reviewer John Ricciardi agreed that it is a very different sort of fighting game which proves rewarding for those who adjust to its quirks, and Kelly Rickards said it is clearly superior to previous \"Dragon Ball\" games, while Dan Hsu fell more in line with the majority opinion, summarizing that \"It's different, but frankly, most of you won't like it.\" \"Next Generation\" called it \"inarguably the worst PlayStation fighting game ever made\", complaining that the character models do not resemble the \"Dragon Ball\" characters closely enough and ridiculing how characters in flight use the same poses as when they are standing. This contradicted \"IGN\", who had described the character models as \"very true to their anime counterparts\".\n"}
{"id": "1997607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997607", "title": "Georgia Governor's Mansion", "text": "Georgia Governor's Mansion\n\nThe Governor's Mansion is the official home of the governor of the U.S. State of Georgia. The mansion is located at 391 West Paces Ferry Road NW, in the Tuxedo Park neighborhood of the affluent Buckhead district of Atlanta.\n\nThe current Governor's Mansion is on property that belonged to former Atlanta mayor Robert Maddox (no relation to Lester Maddox), who owned a large English Tudor-style home on the site. A fire destroyed a large part of the house and Mr. Maddox sold the property to the state. The remainder of the home was demolished to construct the current mansion.\n\nThe Governor's Mansion is a three-level, 30-room, Greek Revival style home built in 1967. It stands on approximately 18 acres (73,000 m²) on historic West Paces Ferry Road in north-northwest Atlanta. It was designed by Georgia architect Thomas Bradbury and officially opened on January 1, 1968.\n\nIn 1975, the mansion was heavily damaged in a tornado that struck west and then north Atlanta on the morning of March 24, occurring just a week after Governor Busbee moved in after his inauguration, and necessitating a renovation. It also led to the tornado being called the \"governor's tornado\", the worst to hit the city until the 2008 storm that hit downtown. Later in 2008, the front door was damaged by fire during another renovation on the afternoon of September 11. The Atlanta Fire Department quickly extinguished the fire, and determined through thermal imaging that the fire had not spread inside the wall. Few people were present and nobody was injured, as it was after work hours, and the governor and his wife were away.\n\nThe house covers 24,000 square feet (2,200 m²) and has a total of 30 Doric columns around the porches. These columns are made from California redwoods and are each 24 feet (7 m) high. They are hollowed out and specially treated on the inside to handle water drainage from the roof. The setting is park-like with numerous trees. On the grounds is the swimming pool, tennis courts, children's play area, and the greenhouse. The centerpiece of the entrance is a Georgia marble fountain with three large flagpoles.\n\nThe mansion has three levels: a lower level, the main level, and the upper level. The lower level has various rooms supporting the mansion. The ballroom is located on this level. The ballroom has a capacity of 175 for formal dinner and has uses for smaller functions as well. The pool and outside patio are also off this level.\n\nThe main floor can be considered the State Floor. The majority of the rooms on this floor are used for official entertaining. The rooms also can be used for day-to-day activities. The Entrance Hall is the first thing you see as you enter. Flanking the right side is the Georgia Library containing books written by Georgia authors. Flanking the left of the entrance is the guest bedroom, which is the only bedroom on the main floor. Walking your way toward the back of the mansion you find the Circular Hall with its grand staircase. Located on the right the State Dining Room and the State sitting room on the Left. They are both used for formal state functions. The back center of the entrance hall contains the powder room on the right, Family Dining Room in front of you, and the Family Sitting Room to your left. The kitchen is in the back corner of the dining room. These are the three rooms used regularly by the family since this is the kitchen of the mansion.\n\nThe upper floor contains the Governor's private living quarters. This level contains among other features the Governor's Mansion office, first lady's office, and family living room. There are several special bedrooms on this floor. The Presidential Suite with its own sitting room, bedroom, and bath has a commanding view of the front lawn. The Carter Bedroom, named after the former president, Lincoln Bedroom, and a couple of other bedrooms are also on this level.\n\nAll of the furnishings in the house are considered to be museum quality and make up one of the finest Federal period collections in the United States. These furnishings were acquired by a 70-member fine arts committee while the Mansion was being constructed. It is a permanent collection and belongs to the state of Georgia. It does not change from one administration to the next.\n\nLester Maddox was the first governor to live there, followed by Jimmy Carter, George Busbee, Joe Frank Harris, Zell Miller, Roy Barnes, Sonny Perdue, Nathan Deal, and Brian Kemp, who is the mansion's current resident.\n\nLester and Virginia Maddox, the first residents of the mansion, set a precedent of opening the mansion to the public for regularly scheduled tours, and that tradition has continued through today. Tours are conducted throughout the year on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays between 10:00 a.m. and 11:30 a.m. Reservations are needed for groups of 10 or more. There is no charge.\n\nGeorgia has had three official mansions and one unofficial mansion in two different cities:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1997617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997617", "title": "Information security audit", "text": "Information security audit\n\nAn information security audit is an audit on the level of information security in an organization. Within the broad scope of auditing information security there are multiple types of audits, multiple objectives for different audits, etc. Most commonly the controls being audited can be categorized to technical, physical and administrative. Auditing information security covers topics from auditing the physical security of data centers to auditing the logical security of databases and highlights key components to look for and different methods for auditing these areas.\n\nWhen centered on the IT aspects of information security, it can be seen as a part of an information technology audit. It is often then referred to as an information technology security audit or a computer security audit. However, information security encompasses much more than IT.\n\nAn auditor should be adequately educated about the company and its critical business activities before conducting a data center review. The objective of the data center is to align data center activities with the goals of the business while maintaining the security and integrity of critical information and processes. To adequately determine whether or not the client's goal is being achieved, the auditor should perform the following before conducting the review:\n\n\nThe next step in conducting a review of a corporate data center takes place when the auditor outlines the data center audit objectives. Auditors consider multiple factors that relate to data center procedures and activities that potentially identify audit risks in the operating environment and assess the controls in place that mitigate those risks. After thorough testing and analysis, the auditor is able to adequately determine if the data center maintains proper controls and is operating efficiently and effectively.\n\nFollowing is a list of objectives the auditor should review:\n\n\nThe next step is collecting evidence to satisfy data center audit objectives. This involves traveling to the data center location and observing processes and within the data center. The following review procedures should be conducted to satisfy the pre-determined audit objectives:\n\n\nThe data center review report should summarize the auditor's findings and be similar in format to a standard review report. The review report should be dated as of the completion of the auditor's inquiry and procedures. It should state what the review entailed and explain that a review provides only \"limited assurance\" to third parties.\n\nGenerally, computer security audits are performed by:\n\n\n\nThe auditor should ask certain questions to better understand the network and its vulnerabilities. The auditor should first assess what the extent of the network is and how it is structured. A network diagram can assist the auditor in this process. The next question an auditor should ask is what critical information this network must protect. Things such as enterprise systems, mail servers, web servers, and host applications accessed by customers are typically areas of focus. It is also important to know who has access and to what parts. Do customers and vendors have access to systems on the network? Can employees access information from home? Lastly the auditor should assess how the network is connected to external networks and how it is protected. Most networks are at least connected to the internet, which could be a point of vulnerability. These are critical questions in protecting networks.\n\nIn assessing the need for a client to implement encryption policies for their organization, the Auditor should conduct an analysis of the client's risk and data value. Companies with multiple external users, e-commerce applications, and sensitive customer/employee information should maintain rigid encryption policies aimed at encrypting the correct data at the appropriate stage in the data collection process.\n\nAuditors should continually evaluate their client's encryption policies and procedures. Companies that are heavily reliant on e-commerce systems and wireless networks are extremely vulnerable to the theft and loss of critical information in transmission. Policies and procedures should be documented and carried out to ensure that all transmitted data is protected.\n\nThe auditor should verify that management has controls in place over the data encryption management process. Access to keys should require dual control, keys should be composed of two separate components and should be maintained on a computer that is not accessible to programmers or outside users. Furthermore, management should attest that encryption policies ensure data protection at the desired level and verify that the cost of encrypting the data does not exceed the value of the information itself. All data that is required to be maintained for an extensive amount of time should be encrypted and transported to a remote location. Procedures should be in place to guarantee that all encrypted sensitive information arrives at its location and is stored properly. Finally the auditor should attain verification from management that the encryption system is strong, not attackable and compliant with all local and international laws and regulations.\n\nThe first step in an audit of any system is to seek to understand its components and its structure. When auditing logical security the auditor should investigate what security controls are in place, and how they work. In particular, the following areas are key points in auditing logical security:\n\n\nNetwork security is achieved by various tools including firewalls and proxy servers, encryption, logical security and access controls, anti-virus software, and auditing systems such as log management.\n\nFirewalls are a very basic part of network security. They are often placed between the private local network and the internet. Firewalls provide a flow through for traffic in which it can be authenticated, monitored, logged, and reported. Some different types of firewalls include: network layer firewalls, screened subnet firewalls, packet filter firewalls, dynamic packet filtering firewalls, hybrid firewalls, transparent firewalls, and application-level firewalls.\n\nThe process of encryption involves converting plain text into a series of unreadable characters known as the ciphertext. If the encrypted text is stolen or attained while in transit, the content is unreadable to the viewer. This guarantees secure transmission and is extremely useful to companies sending/receiving critical information. Once encrypted information arrives at its intended recipient, the decryption process is deployed to restore the ciphertext back to plaintext.\n\nProxy servers hide the true address of the client workstation and can also act as a firewall. Proxy server firewalls have special software to enforce authentication. Proxy server firewalls act as a middle man for user requests.\n\nAntivirus software programs such as McAfee and Symantec software locate and dispose of malicious content. These virus protection programs run live updates to ensure they have the latest information about known computer viruses.\n\nLogical security includes software safeguards for an organization's systems, including user ID and password access, authentication, access rights and authority levels. These measures are to ensure that only authorized users are able to perform actions or access information in a network or a workstation.\n\nAuditing systems, track and record what happens over an organization's network. Log Management solutions are often used to centrally collect audit trails from heterogeneous systems for analysis and forensics. Log management is excellent for tracking and identifying unauthorized users that might be trying to access the network, and what authorized users have been accessing in the network and changes to user authorities. Software that record and index user activities within window sessions such as ObserveIT provide comprehensive audit trail of user activities when connected remotely through terminal services, Citrix and other remote access software.\n\nAccording to a 2006 survey of 3243 Nmap users by Insecure.Org, Nessus, Wireshark, and Snort were some top-rated network security tools. According to the same survey, the BackTrack Live CD is the top rated information security auditing and penetration testing distribution. Nessus is a remote security scanner that performs over 1200 security checks for Linux, BSD, and Solaris. Wireshark analyzes network protocol for Unix and Windows, and Snort is an intrusion detection system that also supports Microsoft Windows. Nessus, Wireshark, and Snort are free. Some other popular products for network security include OmniGuard, Guardian, and LANGuard. Omniguard is a firewall, as is Guardian which also provides virus protection. LANGuard provides network auditing, intrusion detection, and network management. For log management, solutions from vendors such as SenSage and others are the choice for government agencies and highly regulated industries.\n\nVulnerabilities are often not related to a technical weakness in an organization's IT systems, but rather related to individual behavior within the organization. A simple example of this is users leaving their computers unlocked or being vulnerable to phishing attacks. As a result, a thorough InfoSec audit will frequently include a penetration test in which auditors attempt to gain access to as much of the system as possible, from both the perspective of a typical employee as well as an outsider.\n\nSystem and process assurance audits combine elements from IT infrastructure and application/information security audits and use diverse controls in categories such as Completeness, Accuracy, Validity (V) and Restricted access (CAVR).\n\nApplication Security centers on three main functions:\n\n\nWhen it comes to programming it is important to ensure proper physical and password protection exists around servers and mainframes for the development and update of key systems. Having physical access security at your data center or office such as electronic badges and badge readers, security guards, choke points, and security cameras is vitally important to ensuring the security of your applications and data. Then you need to have security around changes to the system. Those usually have to do with proper security access to make the changes and having proper authorization procedures in place for pulling through programming changes from development through test and finally into production.\n\nWith processing it is important that procedures and monitoring of a few different aspects such as the input of falsified or erroneous data, incomplete processing, duplicate transactions and untimely processing are in place. Making sure that input is randomly reviewed or that all processing has proper approval is a way to ensure this. It is important to be able to identify incomplete processing and ensure that proper procedures are in place for either completing it, or deleting it from the system if it was in error. There should also be procedures to identify and correct duplicate entries. Finally when it comes to processing that is not being done on a timely basis you should back-track the associated data to see where the delay is coming from and identify whether or not this delay creates any control concerns.\n\nFinally, access, it is important to realize that maintaining network security against unauthorized access is one of the major focuses for companies as threats can come from a few sources. First you have internal unauthorized access. It is very important to have system access passwords that must be changed regularly and that there is a way to track access and changes so you are able to identify who made what changes. All activity should be logged. The second arena to be concerned with is remote access, people accessing your system from the outside through the internet. Setting up firewalls and password protection to on-line data changes are key to protecting against unauthorized remote access. One way to identify weaknesses in access controls is to bring in a hacker to try and crack your system by either gaining entry to the building and using an internal terminal or hacking in from the outside through remote access.\n\nWhen you have a function that deals with money either incoming or outgoing it is very important to make sure that duties are segregated to minimize and hopefully prevent fraud. One of the key ways to ensure proper segregation of duties (SoD) from a systems perspective is to review individuals’ access authorizations. Certain systems such as SAP claim to come with the capability to perform SoD tests, but the functionality provided is elementary, requiring very time-consuming queries to be built and is limited to the transaction level only with little or no use of the object or field values assigned to the user through the transaction, which often produces misleading results. For complex systems such as SAP, it is often preferred to use tools developed specifically to assess and analyze SoD conflicts and other types of system activity. For other systems or for multiple system formats you should monitor which users may have super user access to the system giving them unlimited access to all aspects of the system. Also, developing a matrix for all functions highlighting the points where proper segregation of duties has been breached will help identify potential material weaknesses by cross checking each employee's available accesses. This is as important if not more so in the development function as it is in production. Ensuring that people who develop the programs are not the ones who are authorized to pull it into production is key to preventing unauthorized programs into the production environment where they can be used to perpetrate fraud.\n\nBy and large the two concepts of application security and segregation of duties are both in many ways connected and they both have the same goal, to protect the integrity of the companies’ data and to prevent fraud. For application security it has to do with preventing unauthorized access to hardware and software through having proper security measures both physical and electronic in place. With segregation of duties it is primarily a physical review of individuals’ access to the systems and processing and ensuring that there are no overlaps that could lead to fraud.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1997622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997622", "title": "John Kitzmiller", "text": "John Kitzmiller\n\nJohn Kitzmiller (December 4, 1913 – February 23, 1965) was an American actor who worked in his native land, as well as Italy and the United Kingdom. Kitzmiller achieved his greatest fame as a popular and versatile actor in Europe, making an estimated forty European films. He is known for his role in \"Dr. No\".\n\nJohn Kitzmiller was born in Battle Creek, Michigan, to John B. and Mary E. Kitzmiller. In high school Kitzmiller was a member of the Chemistry Club, and he later attended the University of Michigan, receiving a bachelor's degree in chemical engineering in 1937. Kitzmiller was commissioned in the US Army reaching the rank of Captain in the Corps of Engineers. He was stationed in Italy in 1943, serving with the 92nd Infantry Division during the Italian campaign of World War II. Both of Kitzmiller's parents died during his military service, events which likely influenced his decision to become one of the few black soldiers to remain in Italy after the war.\n\nKitzmiller was discovered in 1946 by Luigi Zampa and Carlo Ponti while playing poker at an officers' club. This chance meeting led to his first acting role, in Zampa and Ponti's film \"To Live in Peace\" in 1947. Kitzmiller frequently worked in Italian neorealist films. He made Italy his permanent residence and ultimately starred in more than fifty European films, often portraying an angry black man fighting racism.\n\nHe played the leading role of \"Jerry\" in the film \"Senza pietà\" (\"\"Without Pity\"\"), from a screenplay by Federico Fellini, Alberto Lattuada and Tullio Pinelli. He received awards commemorating both his role as an actor and as a soldier. In 1957, he was the first black actor to win a best actor award at the Cannes Film Festival for his role in the Slovenian film \"Valley of Peace.\" Kitzmiller is most famous for his role as Quarrel in the 1962 James Bond film \"Dr. No\".\n\nKitzmiller died of a liver ailment at the age of 51.\n\n"}
{"id": "1997649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997649", "title": "The Frim-Fram Sauce", "text": "The Frim-Fram Sauce\n\n\"The Frim-Fram Sauce\" is a jazz song made famous by Nat King Cole in the 1940s. It was written by Redd Evans and Joe Ricardel.\n\nIn 2002, journalist William Safire said frim-fram sauce was a variant of flim-flam or deceit and \"ussin-fay\" was pig Latin for \"fussing\", meaning \"playing about fretfully\". Safire quoted singer Diana Krall on the meaning of \"shafafa\": \"'It's all about sex,' she replied innocently.\"\n\"The Frim Fram Sauce\" was recorded by Ella Fitzgerald with Louis Armstrong and appears on a number of her albums. \n"}
{"id": "1997650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997650", "title": "Index of waste management articles", "text": "Index of waste management articles\n\nArticles related to waste management include:\nAdvanced Thermal Treatment\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1997652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997652", "title": "Leonard Knight Elmhirst", "text": "Leonard Knight Elmhirst\n\nLeonard Knight Elmhirst (6 June 1893 – 16 April 1974) was a philanthropist and agronomist who worked extensively in India. He was co-founder with his wife Dorothy of the Dartington Hall project in progressive education and rural reconstruction.\n\nLeonard Elmhirst was born into a landed gentry family in Worsbrough (now part of Barnsley, Yorkshire), where the family seat is Houndhill. He was the second of nine siblings (eight boys and one girl). His elder brother, Captain William Elmhirst, was killed on 13 November 1916, aged 24, while serving with the 8th Bn. East Yorkshire Regiment during the Battle of the Somme, and the third son, Second Lieutenant Ernest Christopher Elmhirst, was killed on 7 August 1915, aged 20, while serving with the 8th Bn. Duke of Wellington's (West Riding Regiment) during the Gallipoli Campaign; both during World War I. The fourth son, Thomas became Air Marshal Sir Thomas Elmhirst (KBE, CB, AFC, DL, RAF).\n\nIn 1912 Leonard Elmhirst went up to Trinity College, Cambridge to study history and theology, intending to follow his father into the Church. In 1914, he was deemed unfit for military service and volunteered for overseas service in the YMCA. His experience of the problems of rural India was to fundamentally change the direction of his career. After one year's service in the army he was demobilised in 1919 and entered Cornell University in Ithaca, New York to study agriculture. Arriving almost penniless, he successfully completed a four-year degree course in two years.\nIn 1920 he was elected president of Cornell's Cosmopolitan Club, which was mostly for foreign students, and found that it had large debts and depended on the philanthropy of its alumni and others. Money-raising activities brought him in contact with Dorothy Straight, who was to become his wife.\n\nIn America he also met the 1913 Nobel Laureate for Literature, Rabindranath Tagore, and in November 1921 returned to India as Tagore's secretary. In 1922, in the village of Surul (of which Sriniketan is a part) adjacent to Santiniketan, West Bengal, he set up for Tagore an Institute of Rural Reconstruction. Between 1923 and 1925, Leonard travelled twice around the globe, lecturing and supporting Rabindranath Tagore's missions to Europe, Asia and South America.\n\nThe influence of Tagore, and the interests and money of his wife to be, led Elmhirst to undertake an experiment in rural reconstruction at Dartington Hall in Devon. It is said that Tagore had become familiar with Dartington during his travels in England and influenced Elmhirst in his selection of the estate, which was purchased in a series of transactions in 1925. Elmhirst also assisted in the re-acquisition of his ancient family seat, Houndhill, a couple of miles from his birthplace.\n\nIn 1946 he refused the offer of a barony from Prime Minister Clement Attlee. In a letter to Attlee he replied that \"My own work, however, as you know, has lain in the main among country people...in India, the USA and in Devonshire...acceptance would neither be easy for me to explain nor easy for my friends to comprehend\".\n\nLeonard married Dorothy Payne Whitney in September 1925. They had two children. He was the stepfather of racing driver and aviator Whitney Straight (1912-1979), actress Beatrice Straight (1914–2001) and writer and KGB spy Michael Whitney Straight (1916–2004). After Dorothy died, Leonard married Susanna Isaacs-Elmhirst in 1973 in Worsborough, Yorkshire.\n\nIn 1931, when the Dartington Hall experiment was established they set up a trust to manage its affairs so they could undertake other work worldwide. Leonard's work included:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1997656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997656", "title": "Faraid Head", "text": "Faraid Head\n\nFaraid Head () is a small peninsula on the northern coast of Sutherland, Highland, Scotland, located around north of the hamlet of Balnakeil and north of Durness.\n\nAt the point is located a small radar station built in the 1950s to house a ROTOR radar system to provide radar coverage of Scotland's north coast. By the time the facility was completed however the ROTOR system had become obsolete and the station was closed down but remained in the hands of the Ministry of Defence. In later years the main building was renovated as a control tower for the Cape Wrath and Garvie Island bombing ranges.\n\nExtensive sand dunes can be found at Faraid Head which forms part of the Oldshoremore, Cape Wrath and Durness Special Landscape Area.\n\n"}
{"id": "1997661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997661", "title": "Right of abode", "text": "Right of abode\n\nThe right of abode is an individual's freedom from immigration control in a particular country. A person who has the right of abode in a country does not need permission from the government to enter the country and can live and work there without restriction.\n\nGenerally, in order to have the right of abode in a certain country, a person must be a citizen of that country. However, some countries grant the right of abode for qualified non-citizens. Those with permanent residency of the country generally have a \"de facto\" right of residence, but it can be revoked in certain circumstances, for example for being convicted of crimes, and in many cases, such persons are not free from the immigration control.\n\nCitizens of the European Economic Area (the European Union plus Iceland, Liechtenstein, and Norway) and Switzerland enjoy the freedom to travel to, live in, and work in any participating country without needing a work permit or visa, although transitory dispositions may restrict the rights of citizens of new member states to work in other countries. This is defined by the Directive 2004/38/EC on the right to move and reside freely.\n\nHowever, rights to live in another EU/EEA state are not absolute. To reside in another EU/EEA state, one must either be working, job-hunting, a student, or otherwise have sufficient financial resources and health insurance to ensure they do not become a burden on the social services of the host country. States may also require nationals of other EU/EEA states to register their presence with the authorities after a certain period of time. EU/EEA states may deport nationals of other EU/EEA states and issue exclusion orders against them on grounds of public policy, public security, or public health. For example, those who commit serious crimes or come to rely on welfare may be deported. However, those subjected to such exclusion orders must be able to appeal them after a maximum period of three years, as per EU regulations. Under no circumstances can an EU/EEA state exclude a national of another EU/EEA state for life.\n\nAny EU/EEA national who completes a five-year period of uninterrupted legal residence in another EU/EEA state becomes eligible for permanent residence, after which their presence is no longer subjected to any conditions, and they may apply for benefits that would previously have been grounds for removal, such as welfare. Permanent residency can only be revoked after a two-year absence.\n\nNearly all EU/EEA countries are part of the Schengen Area; a group of countries that have signed the Schengen Agreement, which abolishes border controls between participating states, although it allows border controls to be temporarily set up in exceptional circumstances. The EEA countries and Switzerland have signed the Schengen treaty. Several of the new member states have not yet fully implemented it.\n\nAs a consequence of this, for instance, a French citizen may travel to the United Kingdom, another EEA member state, and then freely live and work in that country. But since the UK has not adopted the Schengen Agreement, they can be required to present a passport or ID card when entering the UK. This requirement applies similarly to British citizens migrating to France. On the other hand, Switzerland applies the Schengen Agreement, so a French citizen is able to travel to Switzerland without being stopped at the border.\n\nHowever, a few European countries require all persons to carry an identity card or passport and proof of nationality is normally required to take up residence in any member state. Thus, while the Schengen Agreement facilitates the movement of persons across frontiers, it makes no substantive difference to residence rights.\n\nThe Nordic Passport Union gives the citizens of Nordic countries the right to freely travel to and reside in other Nordic countries without a passport or residence permit.\n\nCitizens of member states of the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) have freedom of movement throughout the GCC, including the right to reside and work in other GCC states with almost no restrictions.\n\nThe Common Travel Area (CTA) consists of the United Kingdom, Republic of Ireland, and the UK's surrounding island territories. British and Irish citizens can move freely throughout the CTA without a passport and only minimal identity documents, and are subject to virtually no immigration controls. Citizens of both countries enjoy the right to live and work throughout the CTA with minimal restriction.\n\nUnlike other EU/EEA nationals, Irish citizens who move to the UK are granted a \"settled status\", a status that goes beyond indefinite leave to remain. Irish nationals eligible for deportation are treated more leniently than other EU/EEA nationals, and are not automatically subjected to deportation procedures when convicted of crimes, as Parliament has considered \"the close historical, community and political ties between the United Kingdom and Ireland, along with the existence of the Common Travel Area.\" Irish citizens are therefore legally subject to deportation from the UK only where recommended by a court in sentencing or in exceptional circumstances where that deportation is in the public interest.\n\nIrish law provides similar protections for British citizens. British citizens are virtually exempt from deportation from Ireland, and are almost never treated as foreigners by law, although there are exceptions to this rule.\n\nIn addition, some nationals of member states of the Commonwealth of Nations are considered Commonwealth citizens, and have various rights in other Commonwealth countries, including the UK, such as the right-of-abode and the right to vote. In addition, British subjects born before 1984 have the right-of-abode.\n\nIf a person has a British mother and was born before 1984 then under section 2(1)(b) of the Immigration Act 1971 they are considered to have the same rights as a British citizen. The right-of-abode is conferred automatically on such persons and they are issued a certificate on their passport.\n\nUnder exceptions in section 7 of the Immigration Act 1971, a long-term resident Irish or Commonwealth citizen in the UK is granted immunity from deportation, similar to British or other Commonwealth citizens who hold right-of-abode by virtue of a residency term of at least five years in the United Kingdom. These exceptions do not apply to other nationalities with leave to remain in the United Kingdom.\n\nAll British Overseas Territories operate their own immigration controls which apply to British citizens as well as to those from other countries. These territories generally have local immigration laws regulating who has belonger status in that territory.\n\nUnder the constitution, all Canadian citizens have the right to enter and remain in the country. Permanent residents are also conferred the right to reside and pursue a livelihood in any province or territory without restriction. This makes permanent residents the only foreign citizens with right of abode. However, permanent residents can also face revocation of this status under the Immigration and Refugee Protection Act.\n\nThe nationality laws of many countries allow foreign citizens to reside permanently in the country without seeking citizenship. This status is usually accorded following application and selection based on a variety of criteria. In Australia, Canada, New Zealand and the United States among others, foreign residents who have the right to reside permanently in the country are given the legal definition of designation of \"permanent resident\". Although not conferring all the rights and privileges of citizenship, it allows such individuals to enter freely as well as to take advantage of social programs and other services offered to citizens. Nonetheless, this still remains a \"de facto\" form of right of abode because it can be revoked in accordance with the law.\n\nThis includes cases where there is access to citizenship:\n\n\nIn these cases there is a right of residence but without access to full citizenship rights:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1997666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997666", "title": "Neti neti", "text": "Neti neti\n\nIn Hinduism, and in particular Jnana Yoga and Advaita Vedanta, neti neti (नेति नेति) is a Sanskrit expression which means \"not this, not that\", or \"neither this, nor that\" (' is sandhi from ' \"not so\"). It is found in the Upanishads and the Avadhuta Gita and constitutes an analytical meditation helping a person to understand the nature of Brahman by first understanding what is not Brahman. One of the key elements of Jnana Yoga practice is often a \"neti neti search.\" The purpose of the exercise is to negate rationalizations and other distractions from the non-conceptual meditative awareness of reality.\n\nNeti neti, meaning, \"Not this, not this\", is the method of Vedic analysis of negation. It is a keynote of Vedic inquiry. With its aid the Jnani negates identification with all things of this world which is not the Atman, in this way he negates the Anatman. Through this gradual process he negates the mind and transcends all worldly experiences that are negated till nothing remains but the Self. He attains union with the Absolute by denying the body, name, form, intellect, senses and all limiting adjuncts and discovers what remains, the true \"I\" alone. L.C.Beckett in his book, \"Neti Neti,\" explains that this expression is an expression of something inexpressible, it expresses the ‘suchness’ (the essence) of that which it refers to when ‘no other definition applies to it’. Neti neti negates all descriptions about the Ultimate Reality but not the Reality itself. Intuitive interpretation of uncertainty principle can be expressed by \"Neti neti\" that annihilates ego and the world as non-self (Anatman), it annihilates our sense of self altogether.\n\nAdi Shankara was one of the foremost Advaita philosophers who advocated the neti-neti approach. In his commentary on Gaudapada’s Karika, he explains that Brahman is free from adjuncts and the function of \"neti neti\" is to remove the obstructions produced by ignorance. His disciple, Sureshvara, further explains that the negation, \"neti neti\", does not have negation as its purpose, it purports identity. The sage of the Brihadaranyaka Upanishad II iii 1-6, beginning with there are two forms of Brahman, the material and the immaterial, the solid and the fluid, the Sat ‘being’ and tya, ‘that’ of Satya – which means true, denies the existence of everything other than Brahman. And therefore, there exists no separate entity like Jiva which Shankara states is the reflection of Brahman in Avidya (ignorance).\n\nThe following was extracted from Avadhuta Gita on Wikisource:\n<poem>\nSanskrit in Devanagari:\nतत्त्वमस्यादिवाक्येन स्वात्मा हि प्रतिपादितः ।\nनेति नेति श्रुतिर्ब्रूयाद अनृतं पाञ्चभौतिकम् ।। २५।।\n\nIAST:\ntattvamasyādivākyena svātmā hi pratipāditaḥ /\nneti neti śrutirbrūyād anṛtaṁ pāñcabhautikam //25//\n\nBy such sentences as \"That thou art,\" our own Self is affirmed. Of that which is untrue and composed of the five elements - the Sruti (scripture) says, \"Not this, not this.\"\n</poem>\n\n"}
{"id": "1997676", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997676", "title": "Trunch", "text": "Trunch\n\nTrunch is a village and parish in Norfolk, England, situated three miles north of North Walsham and two miles from the coast at Mundesley. At the Census 2011 the village had a population of 909. The parish covers an area of .\n\nTrunch Parish Church is the Grade I listed 14th-century church of St Botolph. The church is famous for its carved and painted wood font canopy featuring lower panels with paintings of the twelve Apostles, a cornice including a Latin inscription, and above six arches filled with tracery. Only four such canopies still exist in England. St Botolph's also features a hammerbeam roof with carved angels, as well as medieval misericords under the seats in the chancel. Another medieval survival is the rood screen depicting 11 disciples and St Paul (their faces were scratched out during the Reformation). Lord Nelson's daughter is said to have been married in the church.\n\nIn 1589 Robert Thexton became the rector of Trunch. While at Cambridge University, Thexton had been the room-mate of Christopher Marlowe the famous, and infamous, Elizabethan playwright.\n\nThe fictional village of St. Just-near-Trunch is known in English folk music as the home of the former satirical folk duo, The Kipper Family.\n\n"}
{"id": "1997683", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997683", "title": "Replay (Grimwood novel)", "text": "Replay (Grimwood novel)\n\nReplay is a fantasy novel by American writer Ken Grimwood, first published by Arbor House in 1986. It won the 1988 World Fantasy Award for Best Novel.\n\nThe novel tells of a 43-year-old man who dies and wakes up back in 1963 in his 18-year-old body. He relives his life with all his memories intact of the previous 25 years. This happens repeatedly, with the man playing out his life differently in each cycle. The novel was a bestseller in Japan. Its time-loop concept has been referenced as a precursor of Harold Ramis' comedy-drama \"Groundhog Day\" (1993). Richard A. Lupoff explored a similar premise in his 1973 short story \"\". \n\n\"Replay\" is the account of 43-year-old radio journalist Jeff Winston, who dies of a heart attack in 1988 and awakens back in 1963 in his 18-year-old body as a student at Atlanta's Emory University. He then begins to relive his life with intact memories of the next 25 years, until, despite his best efforts at cardiac health, he dies of a heart attack, again, in 1988. He immediately returns to 1963, but several hours later than the last \"replay\". This happens repeatedly with different events in each cycle, each time beginning from increasingly later dates (first days, then weeks, then years, then ultimately decades). Jeff soon realizes that he cannot prevent his death in 1988, but he can change the events that occur before it, both for him, and for others.\n\nDuring one subsequent replay, Jeff takes notice of a highly acclaimed film, \"Starsea\", that has become a huge success at the box office in 1974. The film is written and produced by an unknown filmmaker, Pamela Phillips, who has recruited Steven Spielberg to direct and George Lucas, as a special effects supervisor, before the two shot to stardom with their own projects. Because the film did not exist in previous replays, Jeff suspects that Pamela is also experiencing the same phenomenon. He locates her and asks her questions about future films which only a fellow replayer would know, confirming his suspicions.\n\nPamela and Jeff eventually fall in love and become convinced that they are soulmates. Complications arise when they notice that their replays are getting shorter and shorter, with Pamela not beginning her next replay until well after Jeff. Eventually, the two decide to try to find other replayers by placing cryptic messages in newspapers. The messages, which seem very vague to anyone who is not a replayer, generate a fair amount of dead-end responses until the pair receives a letter from a man who is clearly knowledgeable about future events. Jeff and Pamela decide to visit the stranger, only to discover that he is confined to a psychiatric hospital. Surprisingly, the staff does not pay attention to his discussion on the future, but it soon becomes clear why the man is institutionalized when he calmly states that he thinks aliens are forcing him to murder people for their own entertainment.\n\nIn a later replay, the two decide to take their experiences public, giving press conferences announcing future events in explicit detail. The government eventually takes notice and forces Pamela and Jeff to provide continued updates on foreign activities. Although the government denies responsibility, major political events begin to transpire differently, and Jeff attempts to break off the relationship. The government refuses, and the pair are imprisoned and forced to continue providing information.\n\nAs future replays become shorter and shorter, the two are left to wonder how things will eventually unfold—whether or not the replays will ultimately end, and the pair will pass into the afterlife—or if the current replay is, in fact, the last. Eventually, the replays become so short, Jeff and Pamela relive their original deaths repeatedly in succession—until Jeff finally has a heart attack which he manages to survive. While he calls Pamela soon afterward, she lets him know that she has also survived, and that their replaying was not a dream. While it seems ambiguous whether or not they will meet again, Jeff eagerly awaits entering an unpredictable future with endless possibilities.\n\nIn the subsequent epilogue, a Norwegian man finds himself waking up in a youthful body in 1988, twenty five years before his apparent death in 2017. He marvels at the possibilities that await him at retaining the memories of his life and world and national events for the next quarter century. It becomes apparent to the reader that the replay phenomenon is not limited to the three individuals experiencing it in the novel, nor is it limited to the 1963-1988 timeframe.\n\n\"Replay\" won the 1988 World Fantasy Award and was on the shortlist for the 1988 Arthur C. Clarke Award.\n\nThe novel has been included in several lists of recommended reading: \"\" (1988), \"Locus\" Reader's Poll: Best Science Fiction Novel (1988), Aurel Guillemette's \"The Best in Science Fiction\" (1993) and David Pringle's \"Ultimate Guide to Science Fiction\" (1995).\n\nKen Grimwood was working on a sequel to \"Replay\" when he died from a heart attack in 2003 at the age of 59. In 2010 Warner Bros. reported that it was planning on a film version starring Ben Affleck. The screenplay for this adaptation has been written by Jason Smilovic. In 2011, Robert Zemeckis was in talks to direct, but as of 2017, no movement seems to have been made on the project.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1997691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997691", "title": "June Event", "text": "June Event\n\nJune Events are alternatives to May Balls held by some Cambridge colleges.\n\nThe necessarily high price of May Ball tickets motivates some colleges to host Events instead. These evenings, tending to be shorter in duration and of a much lower key, are more affordable but constrained by a much lower budget. \n\nSome colleges chose to alternate between a May Ball and a June Event each year. Emmanuel College's May Ball is held in May Week every other year, with alternate years featuring an Event on Suicide Sunday.\n\nIn 2006, members of the College voted in favour of restoring Pembroke College's lost tradition of hosting a May Ball for 2007. In 2008 they will hold another June Event.\n\n"}
{"id": "1997697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997697", "title": "1988 French presidential election", "text": "1988 French presidential election\n\nPresidential elections were held in France on 24 April and 8 May 1988.\n\nIn 1981, the Socialist Party leader, François Mitterrand, was elected President of France and the Left won the legislative election. However, in 1986, the right regained a parliamentary majority. President Mitterrand was forced to \"cohabit\" with a conservative cabinet led by the RPR leader Jacques Chirac. Chirac took responsibility for domestic policy while the President focused on his \"reserved domain\" – foreign affairs and defense policy. Moreover, several other prominent candidates opposed the two heads of the executive.\n\nChirac's cabinet advocated liberal-conservative policies, in abolishing the solidarity tax on wealth and selling some public companies. It was faced with opposition from social movements, supported by President Mitterrand.\n\nMeanwhile, the leadership of Chirac over the right was challenged by the former UDF Prime Minister Raymond Barre. Barre gained some popularity by condemning the principle of the \"cohabitation\", claiming that it is incompatible with the \"spirit of the Fifth Republic\". He appeared as an alternative to the executive duo. In January 1988, when he announced his candidacy, Chirac was credited with 19.5% in the first round by SOFRES polls institute, against 23% for Barre. But, from the start of February, Chirac benefited from the internal divisions in the UDF, and took the lead among the right-wing candidates.\n\nOn the left, the identity of the Socialist candidate was uncertain. Mitterrand said he was not sure he would run, and meanwhile, his internal rival Michel Rocard campaigned for the nomination. The favourite to win the election according to the polls, the incumbent president announced his candidacy at the end of March. He wrote an open letter to the French, where he proposed a moderate programme (\"neither nationalisations, nor privatizations\") and advocated a \"united France\" against \"the appropriation of the state by a clan\", targeting Chirac and the RPR.\n\nHe benefited from the decline of the French Communist Party, represented by André Lajoinie. Lajoinie was faced with competition for the far-left vote by a \"reforming Communist\", Pierre Juquin and a Trotskyist, Arlette Laguiller. Meanwhile, the Ecologist Antoine Waechter refused to ally the Greens with either the left or the right. On the far-right, the National Front leader, Jean-Marie Le Pen, tried to confirm the FN's good result in the previous legislative election.\n\nThe French economy shrugging off the early 1980s recession with 4% growth that year put the economy off the minds of voters as well as popular social programs being implemented, both of which gave Mitterrand the economic argument to achieve a second term despite the fallback in the last legislative election that caused cohabitation.\n\nThe second round consisted of a competition between the two heads of the executive power, but the first was marked by the unexpectedly high vote for the National Front, and a poor result for the Communist Party. Barre endorsed Chirac.\n\nThe TV debate between the two finalists, and protagonists of the \"cohabitation\", was very tense. Mitterrand wanted to show his ascendancy in naming his challenger \"Mr Prime Minister\". Chirac answered: \"Here, you are not President, and I am not Prime Minister. We are two equal candidates. You will allow that I call you Mr Mitterrand\". Mitterrand replied: \"You are absolutely right, Mr Prime Minister\". Besides, the two candidates clashed about their attitude to the September 1986 terrorist attacks.\n\nFrançois Mitterrand was re-elected President of France. Jacques Chirac resigned from the head of the cabinet. Michel Rocard succeeded him, then the Socialist Party obtained a relative parliamentary majority, President Mitterrand having dissolved the National Assembly. Chirac became president after winning the 1995 elections.\n\n\n& Bell, David. \"François Mitterrand: A Political Biography\" (Polity, 2005).\n\n"}
{"id": "1997699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997699", "title": "Chicoma Mountain", "text": "Chicoma Mountain\n\nChicoma Mountain (; also spelled Tschicoma or Tchicoma) is the highest point in the Jemez Mountains, a prominent mountain range in the U.S. State of New Mexico. The tree line in this area is exceptionally high, and the mountain is forested almost all the way to its summit which is conspicuous from the towns of Los Alamos, Santa Fe, and Española and other areas in the valley of the Rio Grande in northern New Mexico. Like the rest of the Jemez, it is of volcanic origin; it lies on the northeast rim of the Valles Caldera, one of the best examples of a caldera in the United States.\n\nThe mountain is sacred to many of the Puebloan peoples of New Mexico, who traditionally regarded it as the \"center of all.\" Much of it lies within the territory of the Santa Clara Pueblo. Access by hikers, hunters, and others, is correspondingly limited, although the summit can be reached via public lands on the north side. The Puye Cliff Dwellings in Santa Clara Canyon are an archaeological site of some significance; however, the cliff dwellings are not near Chicoma. Puye Cliff Dwellings are accessible via NM 30 to NM 5, about 30 minutes south of Chicoma Mountain. The site is located on the pueblo's land on the east side of the mountain, and are sometimes open to the public for a fee.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1997706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997706", "title": "British Coal", "text": "British Coal\n\nThe British Coal Corporation was a nationalised corporation responsible for the mining of coal in the United Kingdom. It existed from the 1946 Labour Government 1945-1951's Coal Industry Nationalisation Act establishing the National Coal Board (NCB) (1946−1987), until the 1997 disestablishment of the British Coal Corporation (1987−1997).\n\nBritish Coal was formed on 12 July 1946 as the National Coal Board (NCB), which was responsible for the organisation and running of coal extraction. It was under the responsibility of the Minister of Fuel & Power, who presented the board's reports to Parliament.\n\nThe vesting date for nationalised coal was 1 January 1947, when the assets of approximately eight hundred private colliery companies, the Coal Commission, the service contracts held by the colliery companies, and all staff from the district selling schemes that operated in the United Kingdom were transferred to the NCB.\n\nThe NCB formed two holding companies in 1973, to handle non core (deep and opencast mining) activities: NCB (Coal Products) Limited and NCB (Ancillaries) Limited.\n\nThe Coal Industry Act 1987 changed the NCB into the British Coal Corporation. With the passing of the Coal Industry Act 1994, the 16th and last Coal Industry Act, the industry wide administrative functions of British Coal were transferred to a new authority, the Coal Authority. \n\nAll economic assets were privatised. The English mining operations were merged with RJB Mining to form UK Coal plc to form a monopoly. The British Coal Corporation officially ceased on 26 January 1997.\n\nThe business was succeeded by the Coal Authority.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1997711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997711", "title": "How to Tell a Story and Other Essays", "text": "How to Tell a Story and Other Essays\n\nHow to Tell a Story and Other Essays (1897) is a series of essays by Mark Twain. In them, he describes his own writing style, attacks the idiocy of a fellow author, defends the virtue of a dead woman, and tries to protect ordinary citizens from insults by railroad conductors. The essays contained include How to Tell a Story, The Wounded Soldier, The Golden Arm, Mental Telegraphy Again, and The Invalid's Story.\n\n"}
{"id": "1997732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997732", "title": "School meal", "text": "School meal\n\nA school meal or school lunch (also known as hot lunch, a school dinner, or school breakfast) is a meal provided to students and sometimes teachers at a school, typically in the middle or beginning of the school day. Countries around the world offer various kinds of school meal programs. Each week day, millions of children from all standards and grades receive meals at their respective schools. School meals in twelve or more countries provide high-energy food with high nutritional values either free or at economical rates.\n\nThe benefits of school meals vary from country to country. While in developed countries the school meal is a source of nutritious meals, in developing countries it is an incentive to send children to school and continue their education. In developing countries, school meals provide food security at times of crisis and help children to become healthy and productive adults, thus helping to break the cycle of poverty and hunger.\n\nThe first school lunches were served in 1790 in Munich, Germany by an American born physicist, Benjamin Thompson, also known as Count Rumford. Thompson had spent his early days in New England but as a royalist during the American Revolutionary War he had become distrusted and left for England in 1784. In Munich, Thompson founded the Poor People's Institute which employed both adults and children to make uniforms for the German Army. They were fed and clothed for their work and the children taught reading, writing and arithmetic. Years later Thompson would feed 60,000 people a day from his soup kitchen in London. Benjamin Thompson pioneered institutional feeding of the poor and is credited with introducing the potato to the diet of the European poor, inventing the double boiler, the kitchen range, baking oven, pressure cooker, drip coffee maker which are the forerunners to the steam jacketed kettle, compartment steamer, and commercial ovens used for school food programs today.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, significant changes have been made from when school meals were introduced in the nineteenth century. The first National School Meals Policy was published across the United Kingdom in 1941. The Policy set the first nutritional guidelines for school lunches, requiring balanced meals which include the appropriate levels of protein, fat, and calories.\n\nIn the United States, there was a social inequality gap during the industrial era and there was room for improvement in all realms of education. Poor children were experiencing malnutrition and hunger due to a low income of families. Philadelphia and Boston were the first 2 cities to institute school lunches in the U.S. Organizations such as Women's Education and the Starr Center Association began serving hot meals to students for a cost that was affordable for most. Soon after, teachers started to notice the benefits of students both mentally and physically. The federal government wasn't involved until the Great Depression (1920s), farmers and labors weren't doing well financially and the school lunch program was a solution that benefited everyone.\n\nIn recent years, school districts have faced government or community pressure to change the foods served in schools. The addition of vegan school lunch and Meatless Mondays are examples of these changes.\n\nSweden, Finland, Estonia and India are among the few countries which provide free school meals to all pupils in compulsory education, regardless of their ability to pay. Many countries provide meals to improve attendance rates. In India, where all the Government School students are provided with free lunch meals through the Midday Meal Scheme, staple food that varies between different states and regions is provided along with free education.\n\nIn high-income countries, free meals are usually available only to children who meet income-based criteria.\n\nA study of a free school meal program in the United States found that providing free meals to elementary and middle school children in areas characterized by high food insecurity led to better school discipline among the students.\n\nReduced price meals are also available in some countries to those who need a degree of assistance with costs. Lower-cost meals are available to students in such countries as France, Italy, Hong Kong, Japan, and the United States.\n\nIn Estonia, free school dinners are served in elementary and secondary schools.\n\nNutritional guidelines for Estonian school meals are based on the Estonian food pyramid. At the pyramid's base are water and exercise. The next tier up includes starches, fruits, and vegetables. According to Estonia's Food-Based Dietary Guidelines, these foods should comprise the majority of each meal. The middle section of the pyramid includes dairy products and meat. The Guidelines suggest eating these foods in small portions on a daily basis. Just below the top tier are oils, butter and nuts. At the peak of the pyramid are foods like ice cream, soft drinks, honey, and biscuits: high-sugar foods which should be eaten sparingly, as special treats.\n\nFinland provides free, catered hot school meals to all pupils from pre-primary to upper secondary education every school day, as guaranteed by the 1948 Basic Education Act. Section 31 of the Basic Education Act states: \"A pupil attending basic education shall be provided with a balanced and appropriately organized and supervised meal on every school day.\"\n\nSome Finnish cities had offered poor students free school dinners since the beginning of the 20th century. For example, Kuopio did so starting in 1902, and extended school dinners to all students in 1945.\n\nAccording to Finnish National Board of Education statistics from the year 2014, the average school meal was valued at 2.80 euros per student-school day, totaling 532 euros per student for the school year. This sum included ingredients, labor costs, kitchen equipment, and other fixed expenses, but neither property costs nor taxes.\n\nChildren taking part in before- and after-school activities are also served a free healthy snack.\n\nLunches for higher education students (like those attending universities and polytechnics) are also subsidized in Finland. Kela, the Social Insurance Institution of Finland, compensates student meals that fulfill the nutritional and pricing criteria for government meal subsidies. This program's purpose is to promote positive health and nutritional trends among students. The program accommodates special dietary needs – whether in connection with religion, ethical beliefs, or health issues – without extra costs.\n\nFree school meals in Finland are viewed as an investment for the future; the aim is to maintain and improve children's health, well-being, and learning. The school meal is used as a pedagogical tool for teaching table manners, food culture, nutrition, and healthy eating habits, as well as for increasing the consumption of vegetables, fruits and berries, wholemeal bread, and skimmed or low-fat milk. One of the basic lessons is cooperation between students, head teachers, teachers, parents, and catering staff. In many schools, students participate in the work of the school canteen during their . Most schools have a school meal committee where students, teachers, and catering staff develop school catering together. Most schools also welcome parents to come and taste school meals. There are always adults present in the school restaurant. The pedagogical role of the school catering staff is seen as important, as is teachers' knowledge of nutrition. In 2009, Finland began developing school meal and nutrition education for teachers, and pedagogical education for school catering personnel.\n\nNational and local regulations form the basis for Finnish school meal practices. Education acts and decrees and local curricula are central documents governing school meals. Local and school-level curricula define the central principles of arranging school catering. The curricula also describe the objectives for education in health, nutrition, and manners. The health-related and social role of school meals, the objectives of teaching nutrition and manners, and the recreational aspect of lunch breaks are taken into account when arranging school meals and snacks. Students are allowed at least 30 minutes for eating, after which they have a short recess outdoors.\n\nSchool lunches can also be a channel for empowering local food producers. Introducing locally produced fish to the offerings of institutional kitchens, such as school canteens, is an ethical and ecological alternative to mass-produced meat or imported fish.\n\nSchool meals generally consist of typical Finnish foods. A basic school meal consists of a warm main course, vegetables, bread, a table spread, and a drink. The school lunch is calculated to equate to about one-third of a child’s daily nutritional needs. School catering is designed to follow the National Nutrition Council's dietary guidelines for schools. The recommendations for school meals are being updated during the year 2016.\n\nNormally, Finnish schools provide lunch at school canteens in the form of a buffet, where pupils serve themselves as much as they want. Schools often use a model plate to guide eating habits towards the following recommendations:\n\nChildren with special dietary needs – whether in connection with religion, ethical beliefs or health issues – are entitled to a special diet without costs. School menus are designed to be suitable for most students, with minor adjustments if needed. If a child has special dietary needs, their school requires specific information about those needs to ensure food safety and the elimination of possible cross contamination. In the case of health-related special diets, schools require the assessment of a doctor, nurse, or dietitian.\n\nAs with school lunches, before- and after-school snacks are used as a pedagogical tool in teaching children about proper nutrition, table manners, and food culture. Snacks are designed to offer variety and take into consideration Finnish Nutrition Recommendations as well as children’s individual needs.\n\nFinland has no national accreditation system to evaluate the quality of school lunches. However, by the end of 2015, over 200 schools had been awarded the School Lunch Diploma. The diploma certifies a school's commitment to the national standards and recommendations for nutritionally, educationally, and ecologically sustainable school lunches. It is also an indication of excellent collaboration among interest groups within the school. The School Lunch Diploma is coordinated by the Finnish Kitchen Professionals Association.\n\nIn the 1970s, the French government began to work on improving school lunches. In 1971, the government established nutritional guidelines for French school meals. The 1971 food recommendation guidelines stated that each meal should contain raw vegetables, such as salads and fruits; protein in the form of milk or other dairy products; cooked vegetables twice per week; and carbohydrates on the remaining days.\n\nIn France, lunch is considered the most important meal of the day. Students can get lunch at school or go home for it. The lunch break is one to two hours long. French students are taught to take time to savor and enjoy their meals. Students have to pay for cafeteria lunches; the cost of the meal varies by region. A student's family pays for half of the meal, while the school pays for the remainder. For example, a typical meal may cost $6, with the family paying $3 instead of the full price.\n\nThe 2001 food recommendation guidelines, signed by the Minister for National Education, state that school lunches must be healthy and balanced. Menus vary daily, and are posted for parents. Specifically, the guidelines state that:\n\nSchool cafeterias serve five-course meals, even for preschoolers. Schoolchildren eat the same things as adults. A school lunch in France contains an appetizer, salad, main course, cheese plate, and dessert. Bread may accompany each meal. A menu might include potato leek soup, carrot and bean salad, lamb with saffron, an assortment of cheeses, and grapefruit. Each meal is accompanied with water.\n\nFrench schools do not have vending machines.\n\nSchool meals in Italy provide regular Italian cuisine, although they may vary among regions and towns. The Italian government is very \"down to people\" and is doing a large-scale study to measure and involve students in food habits, diets, and food choices. However, many parents struggle for the right to pack home meals for their children since school food is rather expensive.\n\nNorwegian school lunches were supplied from Sweden during World War II, partly privately financed. Later, all public school lunches were discontinued, so most Norwegian students bring a packed lunch from home. In 2007, schools began providing one free piece of fruit each day for all pupils in grades 8–10. Norwegian schools also sell subsidized milk.\n\nSchool lunches have been free in Swedish elementary schools since 1973. The government or municipality covers all charges. Normally, school lunches are buffet-style. Buffets chiefly include potatoes, pasta or rice; meat or fish; and vegetables. Milk and water are usually offered as drinks. There are also vegetarian options, as well as foods that meet religious requirements; these foods are also free of charge. Upper secondary schools do not have to provide meals for their students, but many, both public and charter schools do.\n\nUsually, each municipality signs a private contract with a catering company which provides school food. Many of the food products are imported, but still have a good standard. In many schools, teachers or the school principal eat with the pupils, with the goal of creating a stronger connection between students and school authorities. In Swedish schools there are also international food weeks, or vegetarian weeks.\n\nSchool meal programs in the United Kingdom can be traced back to the Education (Provision of Meals) Act 1906.\n\nIn 1944, the United Kingdom required local authorities to provide school dinners that were consistent with legal nutritional requirements. The government paid the full cost of school meals in 1947. Free school meals were available to children with families on very low incomes. As a result, from the 1950s onward, staple traditional \"school dinner\" foods became embedded in the national psyche. \"School puddings\" in particular refers to desserts historically served with school dinners in state and private schools. Examples include tarts such as gypsy tart and Manchester tart, and hot puddings such as spotted dick and treacle sponge pudding.\n\nIn the 1980s, Margaret Thatcher's Conservative government ended entitlement to free meals for thousands of children, and obliged local authorities to open up provision of school meals to competitive tender. This was intended to reduce the cost of school meals provided by local authorities. However, it caused a substantial decrease in the standard of school food. A 1999 survey by the Medical Research Council suggested that despite rationing, children in 1950 had healthier diets than their counterparts in the 1990s, with more nutrients and less fat and sugar.\n\nThis became a major topic of debate in 2004, when chef Jamie Oliver spearheaded a campaign to improve the quality of school meals. At this time, school dinners at state schools were normally made by outside caterers. The schools sold a lot of deep-fried fast food, like chips, fried turkey nuggets, pizza, and pies. After the \"Jamie's School Dinners\" programme was shown on Channel 4, sections of the public showed support for increased school meal funding, causing the government to create the School Food Trust. This topic became a factor in the 2005 UK general election.\n\nMartha Payne's blog NeverSeconds, which discussed the quality of school meals at her primary school in Lochgilphead, made national headlines after gaining support from Jamie Oliver.\n\nSince September 2014, all infant pupils in England's schools have been entitled to a free hot meal at lunchtime every day. This was an initiative of Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg, who launched the plan at the Liberal Democrats conference in 2013. At the initiative's inception, the government was paying £2.30 for each meal taken by newly eligible pupils.\n\nThe British government uses entitlement to free school meals as a measure of deprivation. For the financial year 2014-2015, the government paid schools a premium of £1,300 for primary-aged pupils, or £935 for secondary-aged pupils, for each eligible child. 11% of families entitled to free meals do not claim them, which means that their schools do not receive the extra funding. It was unclear in 2014 how this would be affected by the introduction of universal free meals for the youngest British schoolchildren.\n\nSince January 2015, the Scottish government has provided free school meals for all children in Primary One to Three.\n\nIn August 2019 it was revealed that local government planning for a No-deal Brexit encompassed the possibility of needing to change legal requirements underpinning the provision of school meals, for example by making them more expensive or less healthy; possibly even discarding the requirements entirely. One council also said that \"special dietary requirements may be difficult to meet\" and that fresh food might have to be replaced with frozen and tinned goods, while another mentioned the possibility of a return to rationing.\n\nThe National Union of Teachers supports free school meals for all children. Fiona Twycross campaigned to persuade the Labour Party to commit to providing universal free school meals. She argues that according to the Institute for Fiscal Studies and the National Centre for Social Research, free school meals for all students significantly increases attainment in schools.\n\nA typical school lunch in the People's Republic of China includes staple food, meat diet, vegetable dish, and each school has different kind of dishes. Students can choose between two and three dishes according to their preferences, with a staple food, usually rice.\n\nIn impoverished rural areas, students' access to nutritious food is limited. The government has funded \"nutritious lunch\" schemes in rural public schools to combat malnutrition. Government data from June 2017 indicated that 48% of schools were unable to fully meet recommended nutrition standards.\n\nThe roots of India's school meal program can be traced back to the pre-independence era, when a mid day meal programme was introduced in 1925 in Madras Corporation by the British administration. This was one of the oldest free food programmes for schoolchildren. In 1975, the Indian government created the Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS) programme. Under the Midday Meal Scheme, government high schools and partially aided schools, along with Anganwadis, provide midday meals to students. The meals are free of cost and meet guidelines that have been set by policy.\n\nBy 1998, India had deployed the National Programme of Nutritional Support to Primary Education (NP-NSPE) scheme. During the 2013-2014 school year, the scheme covered 104 million children in 1.16 million schools.\n\nThe Akshaya Patra Foundation, a public-private partnership in the Midday Meal Program, is a school meal program run by a non-governmental organization. Akshaya Patra started serving 1,500 children in the year 2000. Today it serves lunch to over 1.4 million school children in 10 Indian states every day.\n\nA single afternoon lunch usually contains a cereal which is locally available, made in a way that conforms to prevailing local customs. Each child receives milk, and either soup or vegetables cooked as curry. The menu is occasionally varied to appeal to students.\n\nChildren in private schools usually carry their own lunch boxes. Many schools also have canteens, and street food vendors can often be found in front of school campuses.\n\nIn the 1960s, Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi had intended a non-violent regeneration of Iranian society through economic and social reforms called the White Revolution. The reforms' long-term goal was to transform Iran into a global economic and industrial power. The White Revolution consisted of 19 elements that were introduced over a period of 15 years. In 1975, the Shah started a program for 'Free and Compulsory Education and a daily free meal' for all children from kindergarten to 14 years of age. It provided one-third of a pint of free milk to all children in Iran, as well as pistachios, fresh fruit, and biscuits.\n\nIn Japan, the tradition of providing school lunches started in the early 20th century. After World War II, which brought near-famine conditions to the country, the Japanese government re-introduced school lunches in urban areas. School lunch was extended to all elementary schools in Japan in 1952. With the enactment of the School Lunch Law in 1954, school meals were extended to junior high schools as well.\n\nThese early lunches initially included items such as bread, bread rolls, and skimmed milk powder (replaced in 1958 by milk bottles and cartons). Later, lunches were expanded to include flour donated by an American charity; a dessert; and a dish (such as daikon) that changed daily. Other dishes included inexpensive protein such as stewed bean dishes, fried white fish, and, until the 1970s, whale meat. Provisions of rice were introduced in 1976, following a surplus of government-distributed Japanese rice, and became increasingly frequent during the 1980s. Hamburg steak, stew and Japanese curry became staples as well.\n\nAs of 2004, 99% of elementary school students and 82% of junior high school students in Japan ate \"kyūshoku\" (school lunch). The food is grown locally, is almost never frozen, and (barring dietary restrictions) is the same for every student. Children in most districts cannot bring their own meals to school until they reach high school, nor do schools have vending machines; instead, children are taught to eat what they are served.\n\nIn both elementary school and middle school, students put on white coats and caps and serve their classmates, who then all eat together in their classrooms instead of in a cafeteria.\n\nTo make lunches affordable for students, municipalities pay for the labor costs, while parents, who are billed monthly, pay for the ingredients. These typically cost about 250 to 300 yen (about USD $3) per meal per student. There are reduced-price and free options for poorer families.\n\nThe daily bento boxes are designed by nutritionists to provide a balanced yet tasty meal for schoolchildren, working especially to appeal to picky or unhealthy eaters. According to Chico Harlan:\n\nCommon dishes range from Asian myeon, tom yam, and ma po tofu, to Western foods such as spaghetti, stew, and clam chowder.\n\nIn most Malaysian schools, regardless of whether they are public or private schools, students eat in a canteen where they purchase food and drinks from vendors. School canteens usually offer Malay, Chinese, and Indian foods, with varieties of rice, noodles, and breads. The average Malaysian school canteen offers varieties of Nasi Lemak, Nasi Goreng, Chicken Rice, Popiah, and Laksa.\n\nSchool canteens sell food and drinks at reduced prices. Underprivileged students can apply for the free-food program which, depending on the school, is either sponsored by the school's parent-teacher association or by the Ministry of Education. Low-income students may also be eligible for the School Milk Program, which is funded by milk companies and non-governmental organizations.\n\nSchool meals in the Philippines appear to be relatively simplistic, consisting mainly of rice, meat, and gravy.\n\nSchool meals in most Singaporean primary and secondary schools, as well as junior colleges, are provided in each school's canteen (or tuckshop). The canteens consist of stalls which sell a variety of foods as well as beverages. To cater to the many races, religions, and cultures in Singapore, canteens often offer a range of cuisines, like Chinese, Indian, Malay, and Western foods.\n\nTo encourage healthier eating habits among children, the Health Promotion Board of Singapore launched the Healthy Eating in Schools Programme, which gives an award to schools which serve healthy meals. To receive the award, schools must reduce the sugar content in drinks and desserts, serve fewer deep-fried and fatty foods, and include two servings of greens in their meals.\n\nSchool lunches in South Korea include traditional foods like rice and kimchi (fermented cabbage). Other dishes may include sesame leaves stuffed with rice and covered with honey sauce; pumpkin potato soup; pancakes made of egg batter and green onions, with optional peppers and octopus; and cucumber-and-carrot salads.\n\nIn most schools, the students set and hand out the various dishes, and then clean them up.\n\nDue to the economic boom, obesity has developed into a known health concern amongst adolescents in the United Arab Emirates. The past three decades have seen the largest increases in child obesity. Studies have shown that rates of obesity among the UAE's schoolchildren have surpassed the child obesity rates in both the United States and Europe. Traditional cuisine in the Persian Gulf region, once high-fibre and low-fat, has become Westernized, and now consists of many more high-fat, high-sodium, and high-cholesterol foods. Exercise levels among children have also decreased rapidly, causing the surge of obesity in adolescents.\n\nCanada has no national school meal program, and elementary schools are usually not equipped with kitchen facilities. Parents are generally expected to provide a packed lunch for their children to take to school, or have their children return home to eat during the lunch period. However, some non-profit organizations dedicated to student nutrition programs do exist.\n\nMost Canadian middle schools (grades 6-8) and high schools (grades 9-12) have cafeterias that serve hot meals.\n\nSchool lunches at the national level began as a temporary New Deal project in 1933. By 1935 it was run by the WPA in 1935-42, as a way to employ the unemployed, feed hungry children, and reduce crop surpluses. It was ended in World War II when the WPA closed. In 1937 the WPA reported, \"In the past year and a half 80,000,000 hot well-balanced meals have been served at the rate of 500,000 daily in 10,000 schools throughout the country.\"\n\nThe permanent National School Lunch Program was created in 1946, with the National School Lunch Act. This legislation won rural support because it removed surplus food from the market and thus raised prices paid to farmers. Congress intended these meals to promote and protect child nutrition, while also supporting the consumption of American farm products.\n\nToday, the National School Lunch Program is a federal nutrition assistance program operating in over 101,000 public schools, non-profit private schools, and residential care institutions. It is regulated and administered at the federal level by the Food and Nutrition Service of the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA). The program provides \"nutritionally balanced meals\" at low or no cost to more than 31 million children each school day.\n\nSince its inception, the Program has expanded substantially. It now includes the School Breakfast Program, the Snack Program, a Child and Adult Care Food Program, and the Summer Food Service Program. At the State level, the National School Lunch Program is usually administered by state education agencies, which operate the program through agreements with school food authorities.\n\nSchool meal programs in the United States provide meals free of charge, or at a reduced (government-subsidized) price, to the children of low-income families. Those who do not qualify for free or reduced price are charged a nominal fee.\n\nSome issues stem students individual needs and the increase in food allergies \n\nSchool lunches must meet the applicable recommendations of the Dietary Guidelines for Americans. These guidelines state that no more than 30 percent of an individual's calories should come from fat, and less than 10 percent from saturated fat. Regulations also state that school lunches must provide one-third of the Recommended Dietary Allowances of protein, Vitamin A, Vitamin C, iron, calcium, and calories. School lunches must meet federal nutrition requirements over the course of one week's worth of lunches. However, local school food authorities may make decisions about which specific foods to serve and how they are prepared.\n\nA recent advocate of nutritional lunches was Michelle Obama. Since the Healthy, Hunger-Free Act of 2010 Michelle Obama has worked diligently to defend the importance of healthy school lunches but, has not been successful in her efforts. Schools, specifically in the United states, are having difficulty enforcing nutrition values in fear of being wasteful because children are no longer eating their lunches. Information gathered from students, schools, and food service experts prompted that they cannot met the regulations required for the Healthy, Hunger-Free Act of 2010. Providing schools with whole grains, whole milk, and reduced sodium levels was a part of the act, but the Senate would not fully comply. To compromise, they agreed to serve more fruits and vegetables, more whole grains and reduce the sodium levels. The levels of sodium were to be reduced but these efforts have been postponed for at least 3 years due to inappropriate planning. To avoid further conflict between the senate and the administration, the USAD has tolerated exemptions pertaining to the whole grain standard and allowed schools to do what they find necessary to finding a more fitting solution.\n\nVending machines in schools are also a major source of competitive food for students. Under pressure from parents and anti-obesity advocates, many school districts moved to ban sodas, junk foods, and candy from vending machines and cafeterias. Various laws have also been passed to limit foods sold in school vending machines. With increasing concern over traditional vending machines in schools, healthier vending options have gained popularity and are steadily being adopted by schools around the nation. Marketing for such \"healthy vending machines\" states that they allow students to perform better in school while also attaining better health.\n\nIn April 2012, the State of Osun in Nigeria pioneered a statewide school meals programme for all public elementary school pupils. It is called the O'Meals programme (an acronym for the Osun Elementary School Feeding and Health Programme). As of July 2014, it was providing lunch to over 252,000 children in 100% of Osun's elementary schools. In addition to staples such as rice, beans, and yams served with stews, soups, and vegetables, the programme provides daily fruits. Its estimated cost is N50 (USD $0.31) per child per day.\n\nAccording to a report on O'Meals' benefits:\n\nAll food items are sourced locally from farmers and others on the supply chain, enhancing employment within the state. Addressing child malnutrition has raised students' academic performance, and has increased school enrollment by 24% compared to figures from before April 2012.\n\nIn 2015, the manifesto of the All Progressives Congress (APC) advocated for the adoption of a nationwide free meal plan. Since he became President, Muhammadu Buhari has made the implementation of this policy one of his foremost priorities. A national School Meals programme is the subject of a budgetary proposal before the National Assembly. Also, the government of Kaduna State has implemented a school feeding programme.\n\nThe Healthy Kids Association (previously The Healthy Kids School Canteen Association) is a not-for-profit, non-governmental, health promotion organization based in Sydney, Australia. It is a peak organisation for school canteens in New South Wales and the Australian Capital Territory (ACT).\n\nIn Australia, many school canteens have returned to offering junk food, or pupils have started buying fast food outside their schools. The association has developed policies intended to counter these trends; in some schools, they have taken over providing school food.\n\nIn response to the 2002 Childhood Obesity Summit, former Premier of New South Wales Bob Carr launched the \"Fresh Tastes NSW Healthy School Canteen Strategy.\" Healthy Kids has become a key partner of the Ministry of Health in developing this plan. The strategy is to develop a taste for healthier foods among schoolchildren by promoting and featuring healthier menu options, while limiting the availability of less nutritious foods. The program's menu guide was partially created by Rosemary Stanton.\n\nGeneral:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1997734", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997734", "title": "List of common spider species of Australia", "text": "List of common spider species of Australia\n\nThis is a partial list of Australian spiders and harvestmen \n(Orders Araneae and Opiliones).\n\nFamily Actinopodidae\nFamily Araneidae\nFamily Austrochilidae\nFamily Barychelidae\nFamily Clubionidae\nFamily Corinnidae\nFamily Deinopidae\nFamily Desidae\n\nFamily Dipluridae\nFamily Dysderidae\nFamily Gnaphosidae\nFamily Hersiliidae\nFamily Hexathelidae\nFamily Idiopidae\nFamily Lamponidae\nFamily Lycosidae\nFamily Mimetidae\nFamily Miturgidae\nFamily Nemesiidae\nFamily Nicodamidae\nFamily Oecobiidae\nFamily Pholcidae\nFamily Pisauridae\nFamily Salticidae\nFamily Scytodidae\nFamily Sparassidae\nFamily Stiphidiidae\nFamily Tetragnathidae\nFamily Theraphosidae\nFamily Theridiidae\n\nFamily Thomisidae\nFamily Uloboridae\n\nFamily Gagrellidae\nFamily Phalangiidae\nFamily Triaenychidae\n\n"}
{"id": "1997737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997737", "title": "George Back", "text": "George Back\n\nAdmiral Sir George Back (6 November 1796 – 23 June 1878) was a British Royal Navy officer, explorer of the Canadian Arctic, naturalist and artist. He was born in Stockport. \n\nAs a boy, he went to sea as a volunteer in the frigate in 1808 and took part in the destruction of batteries on the Spanish coast. In the following year, he was involved in combat in the Bay of Biscay, until he was captured by the French. Back remained a prisoner at Verdun until the peace of early 1814; during this time he studied French and mathematics and practised his skills as an artist, which he later put to use in recording his travels through the Canadian Arctic.\n\nFollowing his release, Back served on and as a midshipman before volunteering to serve under John Franklin in his first expedition to the Arctic in 1818. Back also served under Franklin in his two overland expeditions to survey the northern coast of North America, first on the Coppermine expedition—when Back was responsible for all the surveying and chart making—and then the Mackenzie River expedition in 1824–1826, during which time he was promoted first to lieutenant and then to commander in 1825. Lacking appointment to a ship, Back was unemployed on the half-pay list, from 1827 to 1833.\n\nBy 1832 nothing had been heard of the Arctic explorer John Ross since 1829, and plans were made to find him. Back proposed to take fur trade routes to the Great Slave Lake and follow the Great Fish River northeast to Ross's probable location. No white man had ever seen this river but it was known from Indian reports (it was later named the Back River).\n\nHe left England in February 1833, reached the Great Slave Lake in August where George McLeod of the Hudson's Bay Company had built winter quarters at Fort Reliance at the eastern end of the lake. He located the river on 29 August and returned to the fort to winter. In March 1834 he received a packet of letters saying that Ross was back in England and telling him to explore the coast from Ross's King William Land to Franklin's Point Turnagain. This was the main unknown region, along with a few hundred miles eastward from Point Barrow and the area around King William Island which was completely misunderstood.\n\nHe set out on 7 June 1834, passed Artillery Lake and Clinton-Colden Lake and reached the river on 28 June. He ran east down a river in the barren grounds with 83 rapids but only one portage. On 23 July he reached salt water at Chantrey Inlet. He explored the inlet, saw King William Island to the north and then unheroically but wisely turned back. He reached Fort Reliance on 27 September 1834 and England on 8 September 1835.\n\nThe expedition's naturalist was Richard King, who contributed appendices on meteorology and botany to Back's account of the expedition; he also wrote his own two-volume account of the expedition.\n\nIn 1836, Back was promoted to captain by an Order in Council, a rare honour. The goal this time was the northern end of Hudson Bay at either Repulse Bay (now Naujaat) or Wager Inlet. From there he would drag boats overland to seawater and sail the unknown coast west to the Back River and Franklin's Point Turnagain. These were the two easternmost known points on the north coast west of Hudson Bay. The area between them and between the Back River and Hudson Bay was unknown. In fact, northwest of Repulse Bay is the cul-de-sac of the Gulf of Boothia. To reach the Back River he would have had to drag his boats west-northwest. He was given command of the converted bomb vessel with a crew of 60 and provisions for 18 months. \n\nHe left in June 1836, which was late in the season. Because of contrary winds they had to be towed by steamship all the way to the Orkney Islands. He reached Hudson Strait on the first of August. By the end of the month, \"Terror\" was beset by ice somewhere east of Frozen Strait. It remained icebound for 10 months: at one point \"Terror\" was pushed up the side of a cliff by the pressure of the ice.\n\nSeveral times preparations were made to abandon ship. Scurvy appeared in January and three men died of it. In the spring of 1837, an encounter with an iceberg further damaged the ship. Sometimes the pressure of the ice was enough to force turpentine out of the planks. The ship drifted with the ice south along Southampton Island and then east toward Hudson Strait. It was not until July that the ice retreated sufficiently to allow \"Terror\" to head for home.\n\nSoon a large mass of ice frozen to the vessel broke off causing the remaining ice to tip the ship on its side until the ice was hacked off. The vessel was in a sinking condition by the time he was able to beach the ship on the coast of Ireland at Lough Swilly. \"There was not one on board who did not express astonishment that we had ever floated across the Atlantic.\"\n\nAlthough a number of Arctic explorers allowed their ships to be frozen in harbours for the winter, this seems to be the only case of a ship - save for the disastrous Franklin Expedition - being caught in offshore ice. Its survival is a tribute to the strength of bomb vessels in Arctic service.\n\nPoor health caused Back to retire from active service. He was made a Knight Bachelor on 18 March 1839, and maintained an interest in Arctic exploration for the rest of his life. In 1859, he was nominated a rear-admiral. Back served as an advisor to the Admiralty during the search for Franklin's lost expedition, and as vice-president of the Royal Geographical Society, having received its gold and silver medal. Although nominally retired, Back remained on the Admiralty List and, based on seniority, he was promoted to vice-admiral in 1863 and finally admiral in 1867.\n\nIn spite of the high regard in which he was held in the United Kingdom and the many honours he received, Back had a history of being disliked and distrusted by many of the people he worked with in the Arctic, including Franklin. He was variously criticized for being rude, a weak leader, selfish, sycophantic, and quarrelsome. Later in life he gained a reputation for being a dandy and a womaniser. In 1846, he married the widow of Anthony Hammond. He is buried in the Kensal Green Cemetery, London.\n\nGeorge Back was an accomplished artist. Historian Leslie H. Neatby wrote “Back had neither the seriousness of disposition nor the intensity of purpose which are indispensable to the great captain. His virtues were of a different order. No other man has viewed the scenery of the Canadian North with so appreciative an eye, nor has been able to give such full and vigorous expression to that appreciation.”\n\nA watercolour of an iceberg, believed to have been painted by Back following his 1836–37 expedition, sold at auction on 13 September 2011 for $59,600, despite its being unsigned and undated. Experts at the prestigious London auction house Bonhams credited the watercolour to Back, claiming it had been presented by Back to his sister Katherine Pares, and thence descended through her family.\n\nThe auction house opined that the scene surrounding the towering iceberg appears to match a description in Back's \"Narrative of an Expedition in H.M.S. Terror\" (1838) when the \"Terror\" was in the Davis Strait (between Canada and Greenland) that reads \"in the evening (of 29 July 1836) when the weather cleared ... we observed an enormous berg, the perpendicular face of which was not less than 300 feet high...\"\n\nBack drew \"HMS Terror Thrown Up By Ice\" (1836) and the portrait \"A Buffalo Pound\" (1823), which was later reworked into an engraving. He painted the watercolour 'Winter View of Fort Franklin' (1825-6).\n\n\"Recent\"\n\n\"Historical\"\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "1997758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997758", "title": "National Front (Iran)", "text": "National Front (Iran)\n\nThe National Front of Iran () is an opposition political organization in Iran, founded by Mohammad Mosaddegh in 1949. It is the oldest and arguably the largest pro-democracy group operating inside Iran despite having never been able to recover the prominence it had in the early 1950s.\n\nInitially, the front was an umbrella organization for a broad spectrum of forces with nationalist, liberal-democratic, socialist, \"bazaari\", secular and Islamic tendencies, that mobilized to successfully campaign for the nationalization of the Iranian oil industry. In 1951, the Front formed a government which was deposed by the 1953 Iranian \"coup d'état\" and subsequently repressed. Members attempted to revive the Front in 1960, 1965 and 1977.\n\nBefore 1953 and throughout the 1960s, the Front was torn by strife between secular and religious elements; over time its coalition split into various squabbling factions, with the Front gradually emerging as the leading organization of secular liberals with nationalist members adhering to liberal democracy and social democracy.\n\nDuring the Iranian Revolution, the Front supported the replacement of the old monarchy by an Islamic Republic and was the main symbol of the \"nationalist\" tendency in the early years of post-revolutionary government. It was banned in July 1981, and although it remains under constant surveillance and officially it is still illegal, it is still active inside Iran.\n\nThe National Front had its roots in a protest against ballot-rigging, where Mohammad Mosaddegh led a peaceful procession from his house to the Marble Palace on 15 October 1949, threatened to take sanctuary in a major mosque or shrine, and was eventually allowed into the palace with 19 other people, where they stayed for four days. The Shah, Mohammad Reza Pahlavi, eventually gave in and promised fair and honest elections. After the sit-in, the leaders of the protest formed the National Front and elected Mossadegh to be its chairman. The Front was conceived to be a broad alliance of like-minded associations (rather than individuals, as in a normal political party) with the aim of strengthening democracy, press freedom, and constitutional government. The most important groups in the Front were the Iran Party, the Toilers Party, the National Party, and the Tehran Association of Bazaar Trade and Craft Guilds.\n\nSoon after its founding, the National Front opposed the existing Western domination and control of Iran's natural resources, and related revenues, which began with colonialist concessions given during the Qajar Dynasty. By the mid-1950s, Iran's oil assets were owned by the Anglo-Iranian Oil Company, whose predecessor company bought the concession from William Knox D'Arcy. D'Arcy had negotiated the concession in 1901 with Mozzafar al-Din Shah Qajar, the Shah of Persia, who granted a 60-year petroleum search concession in a transaction in which no money changed hands. For most of the first half of the twentieth century, Iran's oil was the British government's single largest overseas investment; 51 percent of the company was owned by the British government. The AIOC, which later became BP, consistently violated the terms of the agreement that had been updated in 1933, and was reluctant to change the terms of the agreement even as Iran's movement for nationalization grew in the late 1940s. Although AIOC was highly profitable, \"its Iranian workers were poorly paid and lived in squalid conditions.\"\n\nThe goal of the National Front was to nationalize Iran's oil resources and to counteract British dominance of Iran's internal affairs by initiating direct relations with the United States. The Front became the governing coalition when it took office in April 1951, with Mosaddegh elected Prime Minister. Mosaddegh's minister of foreign affairs Hosseyn Fâtemi enforced the \"Oil Nationalization Act\", passed by the Majlis in March and ratified by the Senate. The Act, reluctantly signed by the Shah, called for nationalization of the assets held by AIOC, from which the government of Iran had hitherto only received minimal compensation. This led to British counter-moves and the loss of nearly all income during the Abadan Crisis.\n\nFollowing Britain's request, U.S. President Dwight D. Eisenhower authorized the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) to overthrow the Mossadegh government, in an event known as the 1953 Iranian \"coup d'état\". Prior to the \"coup\", the National Front was made up of four main parties; the Iran Party, which was founded in 1946 as a platform for Iranian liberals, including figures such as Karim Sanjâbi, Gholam Hossein Sadighi, Ahmad Zirakzadeh and Allah-Yar Saleh; the Toilers Party of the Iranian Nation (a left-wing party that advocated a non-communist socialist Iran, led by Mozzafar Baghai and Khalil Maleki); and the Mojâhedine Eslâm (an Islamic party led by Âyatollâh Âbol-Ghâsem Kâšâni).\n\nIn the aftermath of the 1953 \"coup\", the National Front was outlawed and its highest-ranking leaders arrested and brought before a military court. The military \"coup\" established Mohammad Reza Shah as the supreme ruler of Iran, although nominal power was held by Prime Minister Fazlollah Zahedi (who was paid by the CIA to help overthrow Mossadegh and strengthen the power of the monarchy). In an atmosphere of police repression, several former members of the National Front (mostly low-ranking leaders) established an underground network called the National Resistance Movement. This group included future prime ministers Mehdi Bazargan and Shapour Bakhtiar, and its aim was to reestablish democracy by campaigning for free and fair elections. Its activities were largely restricted to peacefully distributing flyers and attempting to regulate the 1954 Majlis elections (which in the end were rigged in favor of pro-Shah candidates). It disintegrated under pressure from the state; however, the Second National Front was formed in 1960, which consisted of prominent people such as Karim Sanjabi, Mehdi Bazargan, Allahyar Saleh, Shapour Bakhtiar, Adib Boroumand, Asqar Pârsâ, Dâryuš Foruhar, Qolâm Hosseyn Sadiqi, Mohamad Ali Xonji and others. Its aim was to return Mohammad Mossadegh to the premiership and to reestablish the constitutional monarchy. Initially, it seemed as if this organization was gaining in strength. However, the group's leaders fell into disagreements over questions such as the organization of the Front, tactics against the Shah's regime, and the form of government to which the National Front ought to commit itself. These disputes led to tension between the high-ranking leaders and the student activists; in 1961, Bazargan, Mahmoud Taleghani (a prominent Islamic cleric) and others formed the Freedom Movement of Iran (FMI) which was committed to a democratic state in which the Islamic religion would play a substantial role in state and society (as opposed to the more secular orientation of the National Front).\n\nAnother issue arose over the appointment in April 1961 of Dr. Ali Amini to the premiership. It was widely believed that the Shah had chosen Amini under pressure from the Kennedy Administration in the United States; partly for this reason, the National Front's leaders persistently refused to collaborate with or lend support to Amini's government. However, political turmoil grew worse; Amini stepped down from the premiership in 1962, owing to his dispute with the Shah over the former's plans to reduce the military budget. In June the following year, a huge religious uprising occurred in the cities of Tehran, Qom, Mashad, Shiraz and Varamin, which was put down with ruthless force by the Iranian army. The unrest had been sparked by the arrest of Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, a vocal critic of the Shah and his program of land reforms and granting women the right to vote. Around this time, the Third National Front was formed, which consisted of the FMI (religious-nationalists; Melli-Mazhabis), the Iran Nation Party (the party of Dâryuš Foruhar; Hezb-e Mellat-e Iran), the Society of Iranian Socialists (led by Khalil Maleki, a prominent personality of the Mossadegh era who had been prohibited from joining the Second National Front due to his past history in the Tudeh Party) and the student activists.\n\nThe Second and Third National Fronts differed largely in their tactical approach to facing the Shah's regime. The former believed in patiently negotiating with the Shah and the higher officials in the hope of peacefully bringing about a democracy. In contrast to this passive approach, the Third National Front advocated a strategy of civil disobedience and protests in the hope of either forcing the regime to come to terms with the opposition or face collapse. By 1964, however, Mohammad Reza Shah had consolidated his control of both his regime and the country, and he quickly moved to further guarantee his position by increasing the powers of SAVAK (the state's intelligence agency), which was infamous for the torture and killings it inflicted on the opposition and even on ordinary Iranians who merely uttered any wrong words against the regime. In this new atmosphere of police terror, the National Front virtually ceased to exist (though exile branches continued to operate in the United States and Europe).\n\nThe National Front was revived in late 1977 by Karim Sanjabi (former minister of education under Mossadegh and now the leader of the Front), Shapour Bakhtiar (former deputy minister of labor under Mossadegh and now the leader of the Iran Party) and Dâryuš Foruhar (head of the Iran Nation Party). The three signed an open letter which politely criticized the Shah and called on him to re-establish the constitutional monarchy, free political prisoners, respect freedom of speech, and hold free and fair elections. For some months (under pressure from the Carter Administration), many educated and liberal-minded Iranians were now able to voice their grievances against the regime of the Shah.\n\nIn January 1978, violence erupted in the holy city of Qom over the publication of an article in a pro-government newspaper which attacked Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini as a British agent and a reactionary. Despite the threatening existence of SAVAK and the harsh crackdown unleashed by the regime on the protesters, the unrest grew and spread to other cities such as Tabriz, which was rocked by riots and briefly seized by rebels. By late 1978, almost the whole country (not just the organized opposition) was inflamed with hatred towards the Shah and rioting, protests and street clashes with the police and army grew in intensity and bloodshed. By this time, Ayatollah Khomeini was now recognized as the undisputed spiritual leader of the uprising. Sanjabi, as representative of the Front, came to Paris, and emerged from his meeting with Khomeini \"with a short declaration that spoke of both Islam and democracy as basic principles,\" and committed the National Front to the twin goals of abolishing the monarchy and establishing a democratic and Islamic government in its place.\n\nThis was a diversion from the National Front's long-held aim of reforming the monarchy, and it caused some friction in the high council (although most of the rank and file and leaders supported the new orientation). The friction blew into open division when Shapour Bakhtiar, one of the three top leaders, accepted the Shah's invitation to become the prime minister of Iran, but only on the condition that the Shah committed himself to reign and not rule. Bakhtiar's decision to collaborate with the Shah caused the National Front to denounce him as a traitor to their cause and to expel him from the organization. Only a few moderate and secular individuals among the leadership chose to ally with Bakhtiar and with the monarchy.\n\nOn 16 January, the Shah left the country, amid rejoicing among the populace, and on 11 February, the regime collapsed and Ayatollah Khomeini became the political leader of Iran. At first the National Front supported the new Provisional Revolutionary Government and the establishment of the Islamic Republic. But the joint statement with Sanjabi notwithstanding, Khomeini \"explicitly refused to put the same word, democracy, into either the title of the Republic or its constitution.\" Within a short time, it became clear that Ayatollah Khomeini's model of an Islamic society was modeled not on democracy, but on theocratic rule of Islamic jurists (or velayat-e faqih), and traditional Islamic sharia law.\n\nPerhaps the revolution's climactic confrontation between Khomeini's theocrats and the National Front occurred in June 1981 after parliament approved the law of retribution (qisas, aka blood revenge or \"an eye for an eye\"). The National Front called upon the people of Tehran to participate in a demonstration for 15 June 1981.\n\nThe Front intended the meeting to serve as the focus for the middle classes, the bazaar, and the left wing. It distributed 4 million leaflets. For the first time it attacked Khomeini directly as responsible for repression and a reign of terror. ... Barely two hours before the scheduled rally, however, Khomeini addressed the nation over the radio. He treated the protest meeting as `an invitation to uprising, an invitation to insurrection.` ... He demanded the Iran Freedom Movement disassociate itself from the National Front within the hour if they wished to escape retribution. ... His attack on [President] Bani-Sadr was equally uncompromising.\n\nKhomeini declared that 'The National Front is condemned as of today,' and that all opponents of the law of retribution were apostates and threatened the leaders of the Front with the death penalty if they did not repent.\n\nIn the meantime Hezbollahi\n\nmembers of the Revolutionary Guard and committees, men and women from the wards of south Tehran organized by the IRP machine poured into Ferdowsi Square, the designated meeting place for the rally. The large numbers of middle-class protesters and supporters of the National Front who also showed up were cowed into virtual silence. There was no organized demonstration, no speeches, no march.\n\nLeaders of the Liberation Movement and Banisadr had to make a public apology for supporting the Front's appeal on TV and the radio.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1997759", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997759", "title": "Concorde aircraft histories", "text": "Concorde aircraft histories\n\nTwenty Concorde aircraft were built, six for development and 14 for commercial service.\n\n\nAll of these, except two of the production aircraft, are preserved.\n\nThe two prototype aircraft were used to expand the flight envelope of the aircraft as quickly as possible and prove that the design calculations for supersonic flight were correct.\n\n\nBoth pre-production aircraft were used to further develop the design of the aircraft. Changes to design include different wing plan form, more fuel, different engine standard and different air intake systems.\n\n\nThe production aircraft were different in many ways from the original aircraft, necessitating re-examining certain areas to obtain certification. In all there were six \"development\" aircraft: the two prototypes (001/002), two pre-production (101/102) and two production aircraft (201/202).\n\n\nBritish Airways had seven production aircraft in commercial service:\n\n\n\n\n\nAs part of tenth-anniversary celebrations on 24 December 1985, British Airways photographed G-BOAA, G-BOAC, G-BOAF and G-BOAG formation flying for their publicity material.\n\nAir France also had seven production aircraft in commercial service:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1997765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997765", "title": "Mahmud al-Kashgari", "text": "Mahmud al-Kashgari\n\nMahmud ibn Hussayn ibn Muhammed al-Kashgari (, \"Maḥmūd ibnu 'l-Ḥussayn ibn Muḥammad al-Kāšġarī\", , , \"Mehmud Qeshqiri\", Мәһмуд Қәшқири) was an 11th-century Kara-Khanid scholar and lexicographer of the Turkic languages from Kashgar.\n\nHis father, Hussayn, was the mayor of Barsgan, a town in the southeastern part of the lake of Issyk-Kul (nowadays village of Barskoon in Northern Kyrgyzstan's Issyk-Kul Region) and related to the ruling dynasty of Kara-Khanid Khanate.\n\nAl-Kashgari studied the Turkic languages of his time and in Baghdad he composed the first comprehensive dictionary of Turkic languages, the ' (Arabic: \"Compendium of the languages of the Turks\") in 1072-74. It was intended for use by the Abbasid Caliphate, the new Arab allies of the Turks. Mahmud Kashgari's comprehensive dictionary, later edited by the Turkish historian, Ali Amiri, contains specimens of old Turkic poetry in the typical form of quatrains (Persio-Arabic , \"rubā'iyāt\"; ), representing all the principal genres: epic, pastoral, didactic, lyric and elegiac. His book also included the first known map of the areas inhabited by Turkic peoples. This map is housed at the National Library in Istanbul.\n\nHe advocated monolingualism and the linguistic purism of the Turkic languages and held a belief in the superiority of nomadic people (the Turkic tribes had traditionally been nomads) over urban populations. Most of his Turkic-speaking contemporaries were bilingual in Tajik (a Persian language), which was then the urban and literary language of Central Asia.\n\nOne of al-Kashgari's most historically significant poems, tells of the Turko-Islamic conquest of the last of the renowned Central Asian Buddhist kingdoms, the Kingdom of Khotan of the Iranian Sakas:\nThe non-Muslim Turks worship of Tengri was mocked and insulted by the Muslim Turk Mahmud al-Kashgari, who wrote a verse referring to them - \"The Infidels - May God destroy them!\"\n\nKashgari claimed that the Prophet assisted in a miraculous event where 700,000 Yabāqu \"infidels\" were defeated by 40,000 Muslims led by Arslān Tegīn claiming that fires shot sparks from gates located on a green mountain towards the Yabāqu. The Yabaqu were a Turkic people.\n\nMuslims used to call the Uyghur Buddhists as \"Tats\", which referred to the \"Uighur infidels\" according to the Tuxsi and Taghma, while other Turks called Persians \"tat\". Uyghur Buddhists used to call the muslims as \"Chomak\" While Kashgari displayed a different attitude towards the Turks diviners beliefs and \"national customs\", he expressed towards Buddhism a hatred in his Diwan where he wrote the verse cycle on the war against Uighur Buddhists. Buddhist origin words like toyin (a cleric or priest) and Burxān or Furxan (meaning Buddha, acquiring the generic meaning of \"idol\" in the Turkic language of Kashgari) had negative connotations to Muslim Turks.\n\nKashghari viewed the least Persian mixed Turkic dialects as the \"purest\" and \"the most elegant\".\n\nMuslim writers Mahmud Kashghārī had more some information about China in their writings, Kashgari viewed Kashgar as part of China as Tang China had controlled Kashgar as one of the Anxi protectorate's \"Four Garrisons\" seats. \nTabgach referred to the Tuoba rulers of the Northern Wei by the Turks, Khitay to the Khitans (Liao dynasty), while chīn and māchīn (چين ماچين) and Arabic ṣīn and māṣīn (صين ماصين) were names for China – after the Tang dynasty and the south was referred to as Machin and the north as Chin although before that the names were reversed.\n\nSome researchers think that Mahmud al-Kashgari died in 1102 at the age of 97 in Upal, a small city southwest of Kashgar, and was buried there. There is now a mausoleum erected on his gravesite. But some modern authors reject this assertion, saying that the date of his death is just unknown.\n\nSome claim Mahmad Kashghari was Hazrat Mullam.\n\nHe is claimed by Uyghur, Kyrgyz, and Uzbek nationalists as part of their respective ethnic groups.\n\nAn oriental study university, situated in the capital city of Bishkek in post-Soviet Kyrgyzstan, was named after Makhmud Kashghari, in the 1990s.\n\nUNESCO declared 2008 the Year of Mahmud al-Kashgari.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1997766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997766", "title": "Frank Wilton Baillie", "text": "Frank Wilton Baillie\n\nSir Frank Wilton Baillie, KBE (August 9, 1875 – January 2, 1921) was a Canadian industrialist who played a significant role in establishing the modern steel industry in Canada. During World War I, he turned his attention to the production of military aeroplanes, and was knighted for his contributions to the war effort. He was the first Canadian to be made a Knight Commander of the Order of the British Empire.\n\nIn 1903 Sir Frank Wilton Baillie started up with Frank Porter Wood (his neighbour on Crescent Road, Toronto) and his brother James W. Baillie, a brokerage firm, Baillie Brothers and Company (later Baillie, Wood, and Croft), which operated on the Toronto Stock Exchange.\n"}
{"id": "1997769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997769", "title": "Param Vir", "text": "Param Vir\n\nParam Vir is a British composer originally from India.\n\nBorn in Delhi into a family life permeated with Indian classical music, Param Vir's strong interest in music developed as a teenager when attending a Roman Catholic secondary school and had informal lessons from composer Hans-Joachim Koellreutter, then resident in India. With no prospects as a composer in India, he read history and philosophy at Delhi University, but returned to music on graduation in 1974 as a teacher. From 1983 Vir studied composition at Dartington with Peter Maxwell Davies and at Guildhall School of Music and Drama with Oliver Knussen. In 1986 Vir was a composition fellow at Tanglewood. The following year he was a featured composer in the Festival of India in Geneva.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1997775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997775", "title": "The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring (video game)", "text": "The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring (video game)\n\nThe Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring is a 2002 action-adventure video game developed by WXP for the Xbox. It was ported to the Game Boy Advance by Pocket Studios and the PlayStation 2 and Microsoft Windows by Surreal Software. The game was published by Vivendi Universal Games under their Black Label Games publishing label. In North America, it was released for Xbox and Game Boy Advance in September, and for PlayStation 2 and Windows in October. In Europe, it was released for Xbox, Windows and Game Boy Advance in November, and for PlayStation 2 in December.\n\nThe game is an officially licensed adaptation of J. R. R. Tolkien's 1954 novel, \"The Fellowship of the Ring\", the first volume in his \"The Lord of the Rings\". Although the game was released roughly a year after Peter Jackson's film \"\", and several weeks prior to his \"\", it has no relationship with the film series. This is because, at the time, Vivendi, in partnership with Tolkien Enterprises, held the rights to the video game adaptations of Tolkien's literary works, whilst Electronic Arts held the rights to the video game adaptations of the New Line Cinema films. EA chose not to publish a game based on Jackson's \"Fellowship\" film, although they did incorporate some of the plot and footage into their 2002 \"\" game, which was released a few weeks after Vivendi's \"Fellowship\" game.\n\n\"The Fellowship of the Ring\" received mixed to average reviews, with critics praising the fidelity to the source material, but finding the combat rudimentary and repetitive, and the graphics poor. Many critics also compared the game's depiction of Middle-earth unfavorably with the darker depiction seen in the films. Although the game was a financial success, selling over one million units across all platforms, it was heavily outsold by EA's \"The Two Towers\", which sold almost four million units. Vivendi initially planned to make two sequels to the game, covering all three books in the trilogy, but the first sequel, called \"The Lord of the Rings: The Treason of Isengard\" (a discarded title for Tolkien's \"Two Towers\" book), developed by Surreal Software and slated for release in late 2003, was cancelled late in development.\n\n\"The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring\" is an action-adventure game played from a third-person perspective. The player controls one of three characters at various points in the game: Frodo Baggins, Aragorn, and Gandalf, each of whom has their own weapons and abilities. Frodo is the only character who can jump, shimmy along ledges and sneak. Only Frodo and Gandalf can push and pull items. Gandalf is the only character who has access to magic. Aragorn has the most health, is physically the strongest character and has more melee combat moves.\nIn combat, Frodo has access to three melee weapons at different stages in the game. Initially, he is armed with a walking stick. Later, he acquires a dagger, and finally, he can use the short sword Sting. Frodo can also throw stones, and can turn invisible for limited periods of time by using the One Ring. Aragorn is initially armed with a basic longsword, but later acquires Andúril. He also possesses a bow, and he can kick out at enemies. Gandalf uses his sword Glamdring and has several magical abilities, such as a fire attack, chain lightning and healing. The player can also switch to first-person view at any time during the game. This can help targeting when Frodo is throwing stones or Aragorn is firing arrows. Movement during first-person view is limited to strafing left and right.\n\nWhen playing as Frodo, there are two meters on screen. One represents his health; the other represents his \"purity.\" As soon as Frodo puts on the One Ring, he begins to draw the gaze of Sauron, and his purity begins to diminish. If the purity meter empties before he takes the Ring off, he will become corrupted, and the game will end. Once he removes the Ring, the meter will begin to fill again. Gandalf also has two meters; health and magic spirit. As he uses magic, his spirit meter will begin to deplete. When it is empty, he can no longer cast spells. He can refill the meter by drinking miruvor. Aragorn has only one meter; his health bar.\n\nThe game features a number of collectible items. Often, they are quest items necessary for progressing in the story, but occasionally, the player can find health items; mushrooms for Frodo's health, cram bread and lembas for Aragorn and Gandalf, and miruvor for Gandalf's magic spirit. The Xbox version of the game features secret areas in many levels, where special items can be found. The Ring itself helps guide the player to these locations as its on screen image begins to rotate when a player is near such an area; the faster the rotation, the closer the player is to the secret location. The Xbox version also features numerous side-missions absent in the other versions of the game.\n\nThe Game Boy Advance version is different from the other three versions insofar as it is more RPG based, and is played from an isometric three-quarter top-down view. Gameplay focuses on turn-based combat, and at various points, all nine members of the fellowship (Frodo, Sam, Pippin, Merry, Aragorn, Gandalf, Legolas, Gimli and Boromir) are controllable, each with their own strengths, weaknesses and growth charts. During combat, the player has the choice to fully control each member of their active party (up to four characters), or instead, control only the main player character, and have the other three controlled by the AI.\n\nThe game is presented against the background of the history of the One Ring. At the dawn of the Second Age, after the defeat of the Dark Lord, Morgoth, the elves of Eregion forged the nineteen Rings of Power to help themselves, the dwarves and men rule Middle-earth. However, the elves were unaware that Sauron, Morgoth's closest ally, had survived his master's defeat, and in the guise of Annatar had been the one who taught the Elven-smiths, led by Celebrimbor, how to forge the Rings, whilst, in secret, he forged his own One Ring in the fires of Mount Doom, a Ring far more powerful than any of the others. However, in order for the One Ring to be powerful enough to control the other Rings, Sauron had to transfer most of his power into it. As soon as he put it on, the elves became aware of his ruse, removing and hiding their Three Rings, which Celebrimbor had forged without Sauron's aid. Sauron waged war on the elves, conquering much of Middle-earth and killing Celebrimbor. Thus began the Dark Years, when Sauron took possession of the remaining sixteen Rings, giving seven to the dwarves and nine to men in an effort to corrupt them. The dwarves proved relatively immune to the powers of the Rings, acquiring only a greed for gold, and becoming unconcerned with events in the wider world. Men proved less resilient, and the nine kings given the Rings become the nine Ring-wraiths, or Nazgûl, led by the Witch-king of Angmar.\n\nIn his ongoing efforts to conquer Middle-earth, Sauron regained the allegiance of many of Morgoth's servants from the First Age, and successfully corrupted Númenor. However, in doing so, he expended a great deal of his power, and lost the ability to ever again assume a pleasing disguise. Returning to Mordor, he regained his strength, eventually capturing Minas Ithil. However, realizing that if they did not join together, Sauron would destroy both men and elves, Elendil, High-King of Arnor, and Gil-galad, High-King of Noldor, formed the Last Alliance of Men and Elves, and attacked Sauron in his fortress, Barad-dûr. The alliance was victorious, with Isildur cutting the One Ring from Sauron's hand. However, although presented with a chance to destroy the Ring forever, Isildur, already beginning to succumb to its corruption, chose not to do so. As such, although Sauron's physical form was vanquished, his spirit, bound to the Ring, survived. Some time later, Isildur was attacked and killed by a band of orcs, and the Ring was lost in the river Anduin for over two thousand years.\n\nMeanwhile, during the Third Age, a still weakened Sauron covertly established a stronghold at Dol Guldur. In response to this undetermined evil, the Valar sent five Maiar to Middle-earth. Taking the form of wizards, they were led by Saruman. Unsure of the origin of the evil power in Dol Guldur, the wizard Gandalf was sent to investigate. However, Sauron hid from Gandalf, waiting for four hundred years before returning. Around the same time, the One Ring was found by a Hobbit named Sméagol, who became utterly corrupted by it, living in the caves of the Misty Mountains, and physically transforming into a creature known as Gollum. For five hundred years, Gollum was consumed and corrupted by the Ring. Eventually, Gandalf was able to determine the evil presence in Dol Guldur was indeed Sauron. Gandalf reported back to the White Council, but Saruman dissuaded them from moving against Sauron. Only when he learned the One Ring may be in the vicinity of the Gladden Fields did Saruman agree to attack Sauron, hoping to find the Ring himself. The Council drove Sauron from Dol Guldur, unaware that he knew the Ring had been found. Just prior to Sauron's departure, the Ring passed to another hobbit, Bilbo Baggins, who used it to assist in the victory of elves, men and dwarves at the Battle of the Five Armies. Sixty years later, Gollum was captured by orcs, and taken to Mordor, where he was tortured into revealing the owner and location of the Ring; Bilbo Baggins of the Shire. In the meantime, Bilbo had left the Shire to live in Rivendell, and upon the advice of Gandalf had (very reluctantly) given the Ring to his nephew, Frodo Baggins. With the information given him by Gollum, Sauron, still unable to take physical form, thus sent the Nazgûl to the Shire to retrieve the One Ring.\n\nThe game begins with Gandalf (voiced by Tom Kane) visiting Frodo (Steve Staley) and explaining the significance and history of the Ring. Frodo suggests it be destroyed, and Gandalf explains only the fires that created it are powerful enough to do so; the fires of Mount Doom, deep in Mordor. As Gandalf cannot take the Ring himself, for fear it would corrupt him, Frodo volunteers to do so. An eavesdropping Samwise Gamgee (voiced by Scott Menville in PC & PS2, but Cliff Broadway in Xbox) volunteers to join Frodo and Gandalf agrees, telling them they must head to Rivendell and speak to Elrond. He also tells Frodo never to use the Ring, as to do so will begin to corrupt him, and will draw the attention of Sauron and the Nazgûl. On the night of Frodo's departure, a Nazgûl arrives in The Shire looking for the Baggins' home. Frodo is able to evade the Nazgûl and heads to meet Sam, whom he finds accompanied by Peregrin \"Pippin\" Took (James Arnold Taylor) and Meriadoc \"Merry\" Brandybuck (Quinton Flynn). Much to Frodo's surprise they know about the Ring and Sauron, as they have been spying on Bilbo, Frodo and Gandalf for years. They vow to join Frodo on his quest.\n\nWith the Nazgûl in pursuit, the hobbits head through the Old Forest. As they reach a large willow tree, Sam, Pippin and Merry fall asleep, and are swept up into the tree's branches. Frodo is then approached by a man, Tom Bombadil (Daran Norris), who tells him the tree is called Old Man Willow. Tom puts Willow to sleep, and releases the hobbits. They go to his house, meeting his wife, Goldberry (Kath Soucie). The hobbits spend the night, before heading to the Barrow-downs, where Sam, Pippin and Merry are captured by a Barrow-wight. Tom arrives, again saving them, and leads them to Bree, advising them to stay in the Prancing Pony.\n\nIn the inn, Pippin has too much to drink and begins to tell stories about Bilbo. Afraid that he will reveal too much, Frodo climbs on a table and begins to sing and dance to distract the crowd. However, he slips, and the Ring lands on his finger, turning him invisible. An angry ranger takes the hobbits into another room, warning them they are drawing too much attention to themselves. He introduces himself as Strider (Daran Norris) and asks if he may join them on their journey. At this point, the innkeeper, Barliman Butterbur (Daran Norris), arrives with a letter from Gandalf which informs Frodo that Strider is really Aragorn, a trusted friend. Attracted by Frodo's accidental use of the Ring, the Nazgûl come to Bree, but Aragorn successfully hides the hobbits.\n\nThey head towards Rivendell, stopping at Weathertop for the night, where they are attacked by the Nazgûl. In an effort to evade them, Frodo puts on the Ring, not realizing it does not hide him from them. The Witch-king stabs him with a morgul-blade. Aragorn manages to fight off the attackers, but Frodo's blood is corrupted by evil. As they race to Rivendell, they are met by Glorfindel (Steve Staley), who gives Frodo his horse. Frodo crosses the River Bruinen, and the Nazgûl attempt to follow, but the waves of the river, under the control of Elrond, rise up, washing the Nazgûl away. At this point, Frodo faints.\n\nHe awakens to see Gandalf by his bedside. Gandalf tells him that Saruman has joined with Sauron, and that Aragorn is not just a ranger, but the last surviving descendant of Isildur, and rightful heir to the throne of Gondor. They head to the council chambers, where Elrond (Jim Piddock) is presiding over a debate about what to do with the Ring. Aragorn says the Ring must be destroyed, but Boromir (James Horan), a man from Minas Tirith, disagrees, arguing instead they should use it as a weapon against Sauron. Gandalf says this cannot be so, as anyone powerful enough to wield the Ring would become as terrifying as Sauron. As the debate becomes heated, Frodo volunteers to take the Ring to Mordor and cast it into the fires of Mount Doom, and Elrond agrees, forming a company of nine; Frodo, Sam, Pippin, Merry, Gandalf, Aragorn, Boromir, a silvan elf from Mirkwood named Legolas (Michael Reisz) and a dwarf from Erebor named Gimli (James Horan).\n\nThey set out, and attempt to cross Caradhras, but a snowstorm causes an avalanche, closing the pass. They reluctantly decide the only way past the Misty Mountains is to go under them, via the dwarven mines of Moria. In Moria, they fight off orcs as they pass through the chambers. Near the exit, they are attacked by a Balrog. Gandalf stands against it, defeating it by destroying the bridge on which it is standing. However, as it falls, it catches Gandalf with its whip, pulling him down after it. The distraught party leave Moria, entering Lothlórien, and meeting Galadriel (Jennifer Hale). She takes Frodo to see the Mirror of Galadriel, where he sees images of the coming War of the Ring. Frodo offers her the One Ring and although she is tempted, she turns it down, explaining that his resistance to its evil is because he has never tried to use it to control others.\n\nThe party leave Lothlórien via the river Anduin. Boromir tries to convince Frodo to take the Ring to Gondor to use it as a weapon against Sauron, but Frodo refuses. As they travel on the river, a Nazgûl riding a Fellbeast seizes Sam. The party give chase, and on the hill of Amon Hen, Aragon and Legolas slay the creature and rescue Sam. The game ends with Galadriel looking into her mirror, noting that although the Fellowship has succeeded in getting Frodo close to Mordor, she sees him and Sam alone in the future, with Gollum following closely behind them.\n\nThe game was first announced on May 15, 2001, with publishers Sierra On-Line revealing it would be an Xbox exclusive title, developed by WXP Games, with some non-gameplay pre-rendered cutscenes to be made available at the upcoming E3 event. Sierra were keen to emphasize the game would be based wholly on J. R. R. Tolkien's 1954 novel \"The Fellowship of the Ring\", and would have no connection to the upcoming Peter Jackson directed of the novel. This was because Vivendi Universal Games, Sierra's holding company, owned the rights to video game adaptations of Tolkien's literary works, but Electronic Arts owned the rights to the video game adaptations of the New Line Cinema film series. Sierra's \"Fellowship\" game was slated for release early in 2002, and was set to be followed by an adaptation of \"The Hobbit\", and shortly thereafter, adaptations of \"The Two Towers\" and \"The Return of the King\", and an as-yet untitled MMORPG set in Middle-earth.\n\nOriginally, WXP planned for \"The Fellowship\" to be an RPG, but they soon came to feel this might alienate potential players, and as they wanted to attract as many people as possible to the title, including people who had never read the books, they decided to develop the game as a third-person action-adventure instead. At the time, Frodo was the only controllable character, with the other members of the fellowship featuring as NPCs, although the player was to have the choice as to which character(s) to fight alongside at each point in the game. The developers were also working closely with Tolkien Enterprises to ensure any action sequences or enemies that moved beyond the immediate events of the novel kept with the general tone of the narrative and were true to the spirit of Tolkien's legendarium.\n\nDiscussing the technical aspects of developing the game for the Xbox, WXP co-founder, Patrick Moynihan stated\n\nOn December 21, Vivendi announced a Game Boy Advance version of \"The Fellowship\" would also be released. Developed by Pocket Studios, the game was to be called \"Lord of the Rings, Part I\", and was to feature the full plot of \"The Fellowship\" and roughly half of \"The Two Towers\". This would be followed soon after by \"Lord of the Rings, Part II\", featuring the second half of \"Two Towers\" and all of \"Return of the King\". Vivendi revealed little about the games other than the fact that they were to be more RPG based than the Xbox \"Fellowship\" game, and would be played from an isometric three-quarter top-down view.\n\nIn February 2002, Vivendi announced the Xbox version of the game would now feature three playable characters; Frodo, Aragorn and Gandalf, as well as multiple NPC allies and twenty-eight types of enemy. They also announced the release date had been pushed back to late 2002. Also in February, Vivendi revealed more about the GBA \"Lord of the Rings, Part I\", explaining it would feature turn-based combat, and all nine members of the fellowship would be controllable at some point. During combat, the player would have the choice to fully control each member of their party, or instead, control only the main player character, and have their allies controlled by the AI.\n\nAt E3 in May 2002, Vivendi announced the previously Xbox-exclusive \"Fellowship of the Ring\" game was also being developed for the PlayStation 2 and Windows. Both versions were being developed by Surreal Software. However, as with WXP's Xbox version, Surreal were working closely with Tolkien Enterprisers to ensure the game stayed within the parameters of Tolkien's fictional \"milieu\". A non-playable E3 demo of the PlayStation 2 version featured combat from the Weathertop and Moria levels, showcasing the game's combat and graphics. Both the PlayStation 2 and PC versions were using a modified form of the Riot Engine from \"\". Also at E3, it was revealed the GBA \"Lord of the Rings, Part I\" had been renamed \"The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring\", and would now cover only the first book. However, Vivendi emphasized how faithful an adaptation of the novel it was by showing footage of Tom Bombadil and Old Man Willow, characters usually cut from adaptations.\n\nIn June, Vivendi continued to push the fidelity of the game on all platforms by revealing the voice actors would be reciting over 5000 lines of dialogue taken \"verbatim\" from the novel. They also explained that as in the novel it is mentioned there are 200 steps at the entrance to Moria, so in the game, there are exactly 200 steps. Previewing the PlayStation 2 version of the game, GameSpot's Gerald Villoria wrote \"Although the game is by no means a replacement for reading the books, those who have only watched the movie should look forward to seeing a vision of Tolkien that lies much closer to home.\"\n\nIn August, Vivendi announced the game would be published by the newly created Black Label Games; a label which Ken Cron (Vivendi Universal Games CEO) stated \"will focus on delivering innovative, high-quality titles to satisfy the growing consumer appetite for increasingly sophisticated content.\" The first playable versions of the game were shown at the ECTS in August, with the Weathertop level from both the PlayStation 2 and Xbox versions made available. Speaking of the competition between Vivendi's \"Fellowship\" and EA's \"Two Towers\", IGN's Douglass C. Perry wrote \"the game looks to fulfill the dreams of diehard Tolkien fans who demand that their Tolkien be accurate to the books. The larger levels, various character changes, and attention to story detail will prompt buyers to weigh their decisions heavily before laying down their money on one or the other Tolkien games.\" In September, just prior to the release of \"The Fellowship\", Vivendi reiterated that more Middle-earth games would be coming soon; the already in development \"The Hobbit\", the two sequels to \"Fellowship\" (both of which would feature online multiplayer) and two newly announced games; \"The Lord of the Rings: Middle-earth Online\" and \"\".\n\n\"The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring\" was met with mixed to average reviews. The Game Boy Advance version holds an aggregate score of 51 out of 100 on Metacritic, based on eighteen reviews; the PC version 59 out of 100, based on sixteen reviews; the PlayStation 2 version 59 out of 100, based on nineteen reviews; and the Xbox version 59 out of 100, based on twenty-three reviews. In 2014, IGN included the game in their list of the \"5 Worst \"Lord of the Rings\" Video Games.\"\n\nGameZone's Michael Lafferty scored the Xbox version 8 out of 10, writing \"the essence of the fantastic adventure is there, and while the game does chart an extremely linear path through the lands of Middle-earth, there are enough challenges along the route to enable players to joyfully experience the urgency and terror of the journey.\" IGN's Kaiser Hwang scored it 6.7 out of 10. He was critical of the combat, the enemy AI, and how the plot was handled. He concluded \"the book itself is very non-linear in format and can be very hard to translate into an effective game without leaving some of the detail out. But to reduce to the story to almost childish levels is not what I had in mind. Didn't we learn that from 1978's \"Lord of the Rings\" animated movie?\" GameSpy's Steve Steinberg scored it 3 out of 5, arguing \"the actual gameplay takes a backseat. The die-hard Tolkien fan will get a kick out of slugging and spell-casting their way through the first book of the \"Rings\" trilogy, but the casual gamer will only be disappointed by an otherwise generic action/adventure title. GameSpot's Brad Shoemaker scored it 5.7 out of 10, writing \"even the blessing of Tolkien Enterprises isn't enough to save the game from its bland design and tedious gameplay.\" He called it \"an average game at its best and a frustrating and boring one at its worst.\" Eurogamer's Kristan Reed scored it 4 out of 10, comparing it unfavorably with EA's \"Two Towers\"; \"EA shames Vivendi's effort for presentation and general slickness.\" He was heavily critical of the inability to invert the camera controls, which he referred to as an \"industry standard option\" in third-person games. He concluded \"this has \"licensed toss\" written all over it. The goal was \"to create the most authentic \"Lord of the Rings\" game experience possible.\" Quite honestly, Melbourne House's had more going for it.\"\n\nIGN's Douglass C. Perry scored the PlayStation 2 version 7.5 out of 10, writing \"the inclusion of chapters from the book skipped over in the movie, and the general variety of missions, spread out over the large landscapes work to its favor.\" However, he was critical of the lack of an autosave feature, the implementation of the Ring, which he felt was completely optional, and the combat system, which he called \"basic and repetitive.\" He concluded \"what this game has that the EA game doesn't have - chapters, characters and events from the book - is important to a Tolkien fan, and it warrants playtime [...] but without this license, this game is very, very average.\" GameZone's Michael Knudson scored it 7.4 out of 10 arguing \"the game has a lot of potential, but a few gameplay quirks ruin it.\" He concluded \"this game will only suit hardcore fans of the J.R.R. Tolkien series.\" GameSpot's Brad Shoemaker scored it 5.5 out of 10 calling it \"an average adventure game with a high-profile license attached.\" GameSpy's Bryan Stratton scored it 1.5 out of 5, comparing it unfavorably with the film; \"the reason that the movie worked was that Peter Jackson knew what to keep from the book, what to fast-forward through, and what to cut altogether. \"Fellowship\" doesn't have the benefit of so capable an editor.\" \"Game Informer\"s Andy McNamara scored it 3 out of 10, writing \"There are so many things wrong with this one, it's hard to decide. For one, the story is delivered with all the emotion of a grade school play. This wouldn't be such a bad thing, if the gameplay weren't absolutely abysmal.\"\n\nIGN's Steve Butts scored the PC version 6.5 out of 10, praising the game's fidelity to the novel and its inclusion of characters such as Tom Bambadil, but criticizing the truncation of the narrative, suggesting players unfamiliar with the book or film would not be able to follow the plot. However, he did argue \"the artists here have done a really excellent job of creating a world that's similar enough to be familiar but distinct enough to stand on its own.\" GameSpot's Andrew Park scored it 5.7 out of 10, writing \"thanks to \"Fellowship of the Ring\"s limited gameplay, only true Tolkien enthusiasts will enjoy the game for very long.\" He concluded \"the game generally looks and sounds quite good, but unfortunately, it just isn't that much fun to play.\" GameSpy's Avi Fryman scored it 2 out of 5, and was critical of the gameplay, controls, camera and the lack of an autosave, although he did praise the graphics and voice acting.\n\nThe Game Boy Advance version was generally considered the weakest version of the game. IGN's Marc Nix scored it 6 out of 10, and was especially critical of the combat; \"enemies get the jump on you with the first attack, and since there can be several enemies on screen, it can take a long time for your turn to come up. Then you have to watch every swipe of battle, which all begin and end with the characters taking a LONG walk across the screen to attack and then retreat - just the time that it takes for sprites to rotate back into the ready position is enough time for you to lose interest.\" He called the game \"a rough start for the journey.\" GameSpy's Avi Fryman scored it 1.5 out of 5, criticizing the graphics, and finding the game buggy, writing \"I wonder if it was even tested prior to its clearly rushed release.\" GameSpot's Frank Provo scored it 2.1 out of 10, writing, \"the range of interactivity is so low and the action is so infrequent that Frodo's quest to Mount Doom is reduced to nothing more than a trivial errand. What's more, the entire game is so unpolished and full of bugs that it's unfathomable how it ever passed quality assurance in the first place.\"\n\nThe game sold over one million units across all platforms and was a commercial success. However, it was heavily outsold by EA's \"The Two Towers\" game, which sold almost four million units and received considerably better reviews. In the United States, the computer version of \"The Fellowship of the Ring\" sold 230,000 copies and earned $7.8 million by August 2006, after its release in October 2002. It was the country's 91st best-selling computer game during this period.\n\nAlthough the planned \"Hobbit\" game, \"Middle-earth Online\" and \"War of the Ring\" were all ultimately released, the two sequels in the \"Lords of the Rings\" trilogy were not. The first game, an adaptation of \"The Two Towers\", was renamed \"The Lord of the Rings: The Treason of Isengard\" (a discarded title for the original \"Two Towers\" novel), so as not to cause confusion with EA's 2002 \"Two Towers\" game. \"Treason\" was first announced on April 24, 2003, with plans for a non-playable demo at E3 in May. The game was being developed by Surreal Software, who had handled the PlayStation 2 and PC versions of \"The Fellowship\". Vivendi planned to release the game under the Black Label Games banner on Xbox and PS2, which had seen the highest sales of the \"Fellowship\" game. Vivendi also hired Daniel Greenberg, a self-professed Tolkien fanatic, to work on the game.\n\nAt E3, a non-playable demo was shown. Following the mediocre critical reaction to \"Fellowship\", Surreal had built a new game engine from scratch. Additionally, the rigidly linear gameplay from \"Fellowship\" was replaced with a mixture of both linear and non-linear levels. Vivendi also announced that a secret playable character could be unlocked in the game, but only if the player performed very specific actions. They refused to say who the character was, however, saying only \"The secret character is not Gandalf, it's actually cooler than him.\" The demo featured a level set in Fangorn Forest, with Aragorn, Legolas and Gimli fighting a group of Uruk-hai and orcs. In total, apart from the secret character, the game was to feature six playable characters; Aragorn, Gimli, Legolas, Boromir (in a flashback level), Sam and Gollum. Another new feature in the game was that the player-character often switched mid-level, adhering to the main point-of-view of the given moment in the novel. Multiplayer co-op was also available, and online multiplayer was said to be in the works. The character models were not the same as those used in \"The Fellowship\", with considerably more detail for each character. In July, Vivendi revealed that Treebeard had been added as a playable character.\n\nHowever, on September 12, Vivendi announced that both \"The Treason of Isengard\" and the \"Return of the King\" games had been cancelled. The official reason given by Vivendi was that \"Treason\" \"was not shaping up as strongly as anticipated and would likely not satisfy the expectations of Tolkien fans.\" Vivendi reiterated that \"The Hobbit\", \"Middle-earth Online\" and \"War of the Ring\" were all still on schedule. Andrew Shiozaki, senior brand manager of Vivendi Universal Games, commented that \"it was determined that \"The Lord of the Rings: The Treason of Isengard\" was not going to achieve the strict, but crucial, standards for our Tolkien games. With that, the decision has been made to cancel this title and focus on the remainder of the Tolkien lineup.\" The game had been slated for a November 2003 release, and upon its cancellation, Surreal declined to comment.\n"}
{"id": "1997778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997778", "title": "Blackacre", "text": "Blackacre\n\nBlackacre, Whiteacre, Greenacre, Brownacre, and variations are the placeholder names used for fictitious estates in land.\n\nThe names are used by professors of law in common law jurisdictions, particularly in the area of real property and occasionally in contracts, to discuss the rights of various parties to a piece of land. A typical law school or bar exam question on real property might say:\n\nWhere more than one estate is needed to demonstrate a pointperhaps relating to a dispute over boundaries, easements or riparian rightsa second estate will usually be called Whiteacre, a third, Greenacre, and a fourth, Brownacre.\n\nJesse Dukeminier, author of one of the leading series of textbooks on property, traces the use of Blackacre and Whiteacre for this purpose to a 1628 treatise by Sir Edward Coke. Dukeminier suggests that the term might originate with references to colors associated with certain crops (\"peas and beans are black, corn and potatoes are white, hay is green\"), or with the means by which rents were to be paid, with black rents payable in produce and white rents in silver. A 1790 treatise by Francis Buller similarly uses these placeholder names, stating: \"If A. have Black Acre and C. have White Acre, and A. has a way over White Acre to Black Acre, and then purchases White Acre, the way will be extinct; and if A. afterwards enfeoff C. of White Acre without excepting the road, it is gone\".\n\nAn alternate theory is that the term arises from Civil War policy in which plots of plantation land given to recently emancipated African-American freedmen (freed slaves) during the Reconstruction period under Sherman's \"forty acres and a mule\" policy. Such plots were colloquially called \"Blackacres\". Since most of the freed slaves were illiterate, many were cheated out of their land through shady loan contracts with former plantation owners. These disputes, along with questions of the proper contractual entitlement of the slaves to the land in the first place, provided the basis for the development of modern American contract and property law and has come to refer to situations where there exists some contention or ambiguity surrounding the rightful owner or respective rights of the parties.\n\nIn various law journals and treatises in Louisiana, which uses a unique form of the civil law influenced by but not identical to the Napoleonic Code, authors have used the term \"arpent noir\" as a placeholder name for the purpose of discussing rights concerning immovables.\n\nBecause of its association with legal education, a number of legal publications and events utilize the name. For example, \"Blackacre\" was adopted as the name of the literary journal at the University of Texas School of Law. \"Blackacre\" is also the name of a journal at the University of Sydney Law School, published annually by the Sydney University Law Society, the name of the open-air courtyard and weekly student social at Vanderbilt Law School, and the name of a William Mitchell College of Law formal.\n\nThe Blackacre Nature Preserve and Historic Homestead in Kentucky was so named by the donor of the land, Macauley Smith, who had been a judge on the Kentucky Court of Appeals. In July 2010, a legal humor website wrote an article chronicling the foreclosure sale of Blackacre. A group of law students in Indianapolis founded a brewery named Black Acre Brewing Co. in late 2010 as a homage to their legal schooling. Monica Youn's 2016 book of poetry from Graywolf Press is titled \"Blackacre\", in reference to the legal concept (Youn has a law degree from Yale).\n\n"}
{"id": "1997779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997779", "title": "List of foreign films shot in Morocco", "text": "List of foreign films shot in Morocco\n\nMany foreign films have been shot in Morocco. The first were by the French film pioneer Louis Lumière Le chevrier Marocain. Orson Welles filmed his \"Othello\" there, which won the \"Palme d'Or\" prize at the Cannes Film Festival. In 1955, Alfred Hitchcock directed \"The Man Who Knew Too Much\", set in Marrakech and Casablanca, while in 1962 David Lean shot the desert scenes of \"Lawrence of Arabia\" in Morocco.\n\nThe following is a list of some films that were entirely or partially shot in Morocco:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1997783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997783", "title": "Sultan Satuq Bughra Khan", "text": "Sultan Satuq Bughra Khan\n\n\"Hazrat Sultan\" Abdulkarim Satuq Bughra Khan \"Ghazi\" (حضرت سلطان ستوق بغرا خان غازي) ( (also spelled Satuk; died 955) was a Kara-Khanid khan; in 934, he was one of the first Turkic rulers to convert to Islam, which prompted his Kara-Khanid subjects to convert.\n\nThere are different historical accounts of the Satuq's life with some variations. Sources include \"Mulhaqāt al-Surāh\" (Supplement to the \"Surah\") by Jamal Qarshi (b. 1230/31) who quoted an earlier 11th-century text \"Tarikh-i Kashghar\" (History of Kashgar) by Abū-al-Futūh 'Abd al-Ghāfir ibn al-Husayn al-Alma'i, an account by Ottoman historian known as the Munajjimbashi, as well as a fragment of a manuscript in Chagatai, \"Tazkirah Bughra Khan\" (Memory of Bughra Khan).\n\nSatuq was said to have come from Artux, identified in the 10th century book \"Hudud al-'alam\" (The Limits of the World) as a \"populous village of the Yaghma\", the Yaghma being one of the Turkish tribes that formed the Karakhanids. He lost his father Bazir Arslan Khan when he was 6. His uncle married his mother in levirate marriage, thus Satuq became a step-son to Oghulchak Khan.\n\nAccording to an account by Munajjimbashi, based on a tradition ultimately stemming from a Karakhanid emissary in 1105 to the Abbasid court, he was the first of the khans to convert to Islam under the influence of a faqīh from Bukhara. According to \"Tazkirah Bughra Khan\", Satuq converted to Islam when he was twelve. He was taught about Islam by Samanid merchant Abu an-Nasr from Bukhara. Nasr befriended the Khan of Kashgar, Satuq's step-father and uncle Oghulchak Khan and was granted special dispensation to build a mosque in the town of Artux just outside Kashgar. Here Satuq would often come to watch the caravans arrive. When Satuq saw Nasr and other Muslims observing their daily prayers he became curious and was instructed by them in the Islamic religion. \nSatuq kept his faith secret from the king, but convinced his friends to convert. However, when the king heard that Satuq had become a Muslim, he demanded that (under advise of Satuq's mother) Satuq build a temple to show that he hadn't converted. Nasr advised Satuq that he should pretend to build a temple but with the intention of building a mosque in his heart. The king, after seeing Satuq starting to build the temple, then stopped him, believing that he had not converted. Afterwards, Satuq obtained a fatwa which permitted him in effect to commit patricide, and killed his father, after which he conquered Kashgar.\n\nSatuq was variously stated as twelve and a half or twenty-five when he became khan, and he began to wage religious war against non-Muslims. According to \"Tazkirah Bughra Khan\", \"as far as the River Amu that is before Balkh on this side towards sun-rising as far as the place called \"Karak\" on the north as far as the place called \"Qarà-qurdum\" (the said) Sultan, having converted the infidels to Islam by his sword, established the laws and religion of the Holy \nMuhammad, the Messenger of God, and gave them currency.\"\n\nSatuq Boghra Khan died in 955 according to Jamal Qarshi, and was buried in a mazar that can still be visited in Artux today. It was restored in 1995 by Uyghur architect Abuduryim Ashan. \n\nHe had at least 4 sons and 3 daughters:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1997784", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997784", "title": "Voiceless labial–velar stop", "text": "Voiceless labial–velar stop\n\nThe voiceless labial–velar stop is a type of consonantal sound, used in some spoken languages. It is a and pronounced simultaneously. To make this sound, one can say \"Coe\" but with the lips closed as if one were saying \"Poe\"; the lips are to be released at the same time as or a fraction of a second after the \"C\" of \"Coe\" is pronounced. The symbol in the International Phonetic Alphabet that represents this sound is .\n\nThe voiceless labial–velar stop is found in Vietnamese and various languages in West and Central Africa. In Yoruba it is written with a simple .\n\nFeatures of the voiceless labial–velar stop:\n\nSome languages, especially in Papua New Guinea and in Vanuatu, combine this voiceless labial–velar stop with a labial–velar approximant release, hence . Thus Mwotlap (Banks Islands, north Vanuatu) has ('my father-in-law').\n\nIn the Banks Islands languages which have it, the phoneme is written in local orthographies.\nIn other languages of Vanuatu further south (such as South Efate, or Lenakel), the same segment is spelled .\n\n\n"}
