{"id": "1926270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926270", "title": "History of Maryland", "text": "History of Maryland\n\nThe recorded history of Maryland dates back to the beginning of European exploration, starting with the Venetian John Cabot, who explored the coast of North America for the Kingdom of England in 1498. After European settlements had been made to the south and north, the colonial Province of Maryland was granted by King Charles I to Sir George Calvert (1579–1632), his former Secretary of State in 1632, for settlement beginning in March 1634. It was notable for having been established with religious freedom for Roman Catholics, since Calvert had publicly converted to that faith. Like other colonies and settlements of the Chesapeake Bay region, its economy was soon based on tobacco as a commodity crop, highly prized among the English, cultivated primarily by African slave labor, although many young people came from Britain sent as indentured servants or criminal prisoners in the early years.\n\nIn 1781, during the American Revolutionary War (1775–1783), Maryland became the seventh state of the United States to ratify the Articles of Confederation and Perpetual Union. They were drawn up by a committee of the Second Continental Congress (1775–1781), which began shortly after the adoption of a Declaration of Independence in July 1776, through to 1778. Later that year, these Articles were recommended to the newly independent sovereign states via their legislatures for the required unanimous ratification. This long process was held up for three years by objections from smaller states led by Maryland until certain issues and principles over the western lands beyond the Appalachian Mountains to the Mississippi River. These objections were resolved with the larger states agreeing to cede their various western claims to the authority of the new Congress of the Confederation, representing all the states, to be held in common for the laying out and erection of new states out of the jointly held Federal territories. Maryland then finally agreed to join the new American confederation by being one of the last of the former colonies ratifying the long proposed Articles in 1781, when they took effect.\n\nLater that same decade, Maryland became the seventh state to ratify the stronger government structure proposed in the new U.S. Constitution in 1788.\n\nAfter the Revolutionary War, numerous Maryland planters freed their slaves as the economy changed. Baltimore grew to become one of the largest cities on the eastern seaboard, and a major economic force in the country. Although Maryland was still a slave state in 1860, by that time nearly half of the African American population was already free, due mostly to manumissions after the American Revolution. Baltimore had the highest number of free people of color of any city in the United States. Maryland was among the four divided border states that officially remained in the Union during the American Civil War (1861–1865), although large numbers of Marylanders \"went south\" to fight for the seceded Confederacy.\n\nIt appears that the first humans in the area that would become Maryland arrived around the tenth millennium BC, about the time that the last ice age ended. They were hunter-gatherers organized into semi-nomadic bands. They adapted as the region's environment changed, developing the spear for hunting as smaller animals, like deer, became more prevalent. By about 1500 BC, oysters had become an important food resource in the region. With the increased variety of food sources, Native American villages and settlements started appearing and their social structures increased in complexity. By about 1000 BC, pottery was being produced. With the eventual rise of agriculture, more permanent Native-American villages were built. But even with the advent of farming, hunting and fishing were still important means of obtaining food. The bow and arrow were first used for hunting in the area around the year 800. They ate what they could kill, grow or catch in the rivers and other waterways.\nBy 1000 AD, there were about 8,000 Native Americans, all Algonquian-speaking, living in what is now the state, in 40 different villages. By the 17th century, the state was populated by a mix of Iroquoian and Algonquian peoples. These were the Susquehannocks (west of the Delaware River), the Tuscarora and Tockwogh (on the Delmarva Peninsula between the Delaware and Indian Rivers), the Piscataway (surrounding the Potomac River from Washington D.C. south) and the Nanticoke (Delmarva Peninsula, south of the Indian River). John Smith labelled the Tuscarora as the Kuskarawock on an early map from 1606, but they shortly thereafter moved west to join the Meherrin and Nottoway in Virginia. Meanwhile, the Tockwogh may have moved to New York and/or been given refuge by the Susquehannock. They are noted as the Akhrakovaetonon and Trakwaerronnons, which seems similar to Tockwogh. They were extinct as a people by the end of the 17th century, however.\n\nThe following Piscataway tribes lived on the eastern bank of the Potomac, from south to north: Yaocomicoes, Chopticans, Nanjemoys, Potopacs, Mattawomans, Piscataways, Patuxents, and Nacotchtanks. The area in which the Nacotchtank lived is now the District of Columbia. On the west bank of the Potomac river in what is now Virginia were the related tribes of the Patawomeck and the Doeg. Further west in the Appalachian Mountains, the Shawnee lived near Oldtown at a site abandoned around 1731. On the Eastern Shore of the Chesapeake, from south to north, there were the Nanticoke tribes: Annemessex, Assateagues, Wicomicoes, Nanticokes, Chicacone, and, on the north bank of the Choptank River, the Choptanks. The Tockwogh tribe lived near the headwaters of the Chesapeake near what is now Delaware. They were driven further north by enemies and eventually broke apart, with some staying in the region, others merging with the Nanticoke and others, known as the Conoy, migrated west into West Virginia. Some appeared around the end of the 18th century at Fort Detroit in Michigan.\n\nWhen Europeans began to settle in Maryland in the early 17th century, the main tribes included the Nanticoke on the Eastern Shore, and the Iroquoian speaking Susquehannock. Early exposure to new European diseases brought widespread fatalities to the Native Americans, as they had no immunity to them. Communities were disrupted by such losses. Furthermore, The Susquehannock, already incorrectly considered savages and cannibals by the first Spanish explorers, made massive moves to control local trade with the first Swedish, Dutch and English settlers of the Chesapeake Bay region. As the century wore on, the Susquehannock would be caught up in the Beaver Wars, a war with the neighboring Lenape, a war with the Dutch, a war with the English, and a series of wars with the colonial government of Maryland. Due to colonial land claims, the exact territory of the Susquehannock was originally limited to the territory immediately surrounding the Susquehanna River, however archaeology has discovered settlements of theirs dating to the 14th and 15th centuries around the Maryland-West Virginia border, and beyond. It could generally be assumed that most of Maryland's southern border is based on the borders of their own land. All of these wars, coupled with disease, destroyed the tribe and the last of their people were offered refuge from the Iroquois Confederacy to the north shortly thereafter.\n\nThe closest living language to them are the languages of the Mohawk and Tuscarora Iroquois, who once lived immediately north and south of them. The English and Dutch came to call them the Minqua, from Lenape, which breaks into min-kwe and translates to \"as a woman.\" As to when they arrived, some early records detailing their oral history seem to point to the fact that they descended from an Iroquoian group who conquered Ohio centuries before, but were pushed back east again by Siouan and Algonquin enemies. They also conquered and absorbed other unknown groups in the process, which probably explains how languages like Tuscarora came to be so completely divergent from other Iroquoian languages. It also appears possible that the word \"Iroquois\" actually derived from their language.\n\nThe Nanticoke seem to have been largely confined to Indian Towns, but were later relocated to New York in 1778. Afterwards, they dissolved, with groups joining the Iroquois and Lenape.\n\nAlso, as Susquehannocks began to abandon much of their western-most territory due to their own hardships, a group of Powhatan split off, becoming known as the Shawnee and migrated into the western regions of Maryland and Pennsylvania briefly before moving on. At the time, they were relatively small, but they eventually made the Ohio River, migrating all the way into Ohio and merged with other nations there to become the powerful, military force that they were known to be during the 18th and 19th centuries.\n\nIn 1498 the first European explorers sailed along the Eastern Shore, off present-day Worcester County. In 1524 Giovanni da Verrazzano, sailing under the French flag, passed the mouth of Chesapeake Bay. In 1608 John Smith entered the bay and explored it extensively. His maps have been preserved to today. Although technically crude, they are surprisingly accurate given the technology of those times (the maps are ornate but crude by modern technical standards).\n\nThe region was depicted in an earlier map by Estêvão Gomes and Diego Gutiérrez, made in 1562, in the context of the Spanish Ajacán Mission of the sixteenth century.\n\nGeorge Calvert, 1st Baron Baltimore, applied to Charles I for a royal charter for what was to become the Province of Maryland. After Calvert died in April 1632, the charter for \"Maryland Colony\" (in Latin \"Terra Mariae\") was granted to his son, Cecilius Calvert, 2nd Baron Baltimore, on June 20, 1632. Some historians viewed this as compensation for his father having been stripped of his title of Secretary of State in 1625 after announcing his Roman Catholicism.\n\nOfficially the colony is said to be named in honor of Queen Henrietta Maria, the wife of King Charles I. Some Catholic scholars believe that George Calvert named the province after Mary, the mother of Jesus. The name in the charter was phrased \"Terra Mariae\", \"anglice\", Maryland. The English name was preferred due to the undesired associations of \"Mariae\" with the Spanish Jesuit Juan de Mariana, linked to the Inquisition.\n\nAs did other colonies, Maryland used the headright system to encourage people to bring in new settlers. Led by Leonard Calvert, Cecil Calvert's younger brother, the first settlers departed from Cowes, on the Isle of Wight, on November 22, 1633, aboard two small ships, the \"Ark\" and the \"Dove\". Their landing on March 25, 1634, at St. Clement's Island in southern Maryland is commemorated by the state each year on that date as Maryland Day. This was the site of the first Catholic mass in the Colonies, with Father Andrew White leading the service. The first group of colonists consisted of 17 gentlemen and their wives, and about two hundred others, mostly indentured servants.\n\nAfter purchasing land from the Yaocomico Indians and establishing the town of St. Mary's, Leonard, per his brother's instructions, attempted to govern the country under feudalistic precepts. Meeting resistance, in February 1635, he summoned a colonial assembly. In 1638, the Assembly forced him to govern according to the laws of England. The right to initiate legislation passed to the assembly.\n\nIn 1638 Calvert seized a trading post in Kent Island established by the Virginian William Claiborne. In 1644 Claiborne led an uprising of Maryland Protestants. Calvert was forced to flee to Virginia, but he returned at the head of an armed force in 1646 and reasserted proprietarial rule.\nMaryland soon became one of the few predominantly Catholic regions among the English colonies in North America. Maryland was also one of the key destinations where the government sent tens of thousands of English convicts punished by sentences of transportation. Such punishment persisted until the Revolutionary War.\n\nThe Maryland Toleration Act, issued in 1649, was one of the first laws that explicitly defined tolerance of varieties of Christianity.\n\nSt. Mary's City was the largest settlement in Maryland and the seat of colonial government until 1695. Because Anglicanism had become the official religion in Virginia, a band of Puritans in 1642 left for Maryland; they founded Providence (now called Annapolis).\nIn 1650 the Puritans revolted against the proprietary government. They set up a new government prohibiting both Catholicism and Anglicanism. In March 1655, the 2nd Lord Baltimore sent an army under Governor William Stone to put down this revolt. Near Annapolis, his Roman Catholic army was decisively defeated by a Puritan army in the Battle of the Severn. The Puritan revolt lasted until 1658, when the Calvert family regained control and re-enacted the Toleration Act.\n\nIn 1689, following the accession of a Protestant monarchy in England, rebels against the Catholic regime in Maryland overthrew the government and took power. Lord Baltimore was stripped of his right to govern the province, though not of his territorial rights. Maryland was designated as a royal province, administered by the crown via appointed governors until 1715. At that time, Benedict Calvert, 4th Baron Baltimore, having converted to Anglicanism, was restored to proprietorship.\n\nThe Protestant revolutionary government persecuted Maryland Catholics during its reign. Mobs burned down all the original Catholic churches of southern Maryland. The Anglican Church was made the established church of the colony. In 1695 the royal Governor, Francis Nicholson, moved the seat of government to Ann Arundell Town in Anne Arundel County and renamed it Annapolis in honor of the Princess Anne, who later became Queen Anne of Great Britain. Annapolis remains the capital of Maryland. St. Mary's City is now an archaeological site, with a small tourist center.\n\nJust as the city plan for St. Mary's City reflected the ideals of the founders, the city plan of Annapolis reflected those in power at the turn of the 18th century. The plan of Annapolis extends from two circles at the center of the city – one including the State House and the other the established Anglican St. Anne's Church (now Episcopal). The plan reflected a stronger relationship between church and state, and a colonial government more closely aligned with Protestant churches. General British policy regarding immigration to all British America would be reflected broadly in the Plantation Act of 1740.\n\nBased on an incorrect map, the original royal charter granted to Maryland the Potomac River and territory northward to the fortieth parallel. This was found to be a problem, as the northern boundary would have put Philadelphia, the major city in Pennsylvania, within Maryland. The Calvert family, which controlled Maryland, and the Penn family, which controlled Pennsylvania, decided in 1750 to engage two surveyors, Charles Mason and Jeremiah Dixon, to establish a boundary between the colonies.\n\nThey surveyed what became known as the Mason–Dixon Line, which became the boundary between the two colonies. The crests of the Penn family and of the Calvert family were put at the Mason–Dixon line to mark it.\n\nIn Chesapeake society (that is, colonial Virginia and Maryland) sports occupied a great deal of attention at every social level. Horse racing was sponsored by the wealthy gentry plantation owners, and attracted ordinary farmers as spectators and gamblers. Selected slaves often became skilled horse trainers. Horse racing was especially important for knitting the gentry together. The race was a major public event designed to demonstrate to the world the superior social status of the gentry through expensive breeding and training of horses, boasting and gambling, and especially winning the races themselves. Historian Timothy Breen explains that horseracing and high-stakes gambling were essential to maintaining the status of the gentry. When they publicly bet a large fraction of their wealth on their favorite horse, they expressed competitiveness, individualism, and materialism as the core elements of gentry values.\n\nMaryland did not at first favor independence from Great Britain and gave instructions to that effect to its delegates to the Second Continental Congress. During this initial phase of the Revolutionary period, Maryland was governed by a series of conventions of the Assembly of Freemen. The first convention of the Assembly lasted four days, from June 22 to 25, 1774. All sixteen counties then existing were represented by a total of 92 members; Matthew Tilghman was elected chairman.\n\nThe eighth session decided that the continuation of an ad-hoc government by the convention was not a good mechanism for all the concerns of the province. A more permanent and structured government was needed. So, on July 3, 1776, they resolved that a new convention be elected that would be responsible for drawing up their first state constitution, one that did not refer to parliament or the king, but would be a government \"...of the people only.\" After they set dates and prepared notices to the counties they adjourned. On August 1, all freemen with property elected delegates for the last convention. The ninth and last convention was also known as the Constitutional Convention of 1776. They drafted a constitution, and when they adjourned on November 11, they would not meet again. The conventions were replaced by the new state government which the Maryland Constitution of 1776 had established. Thomas Johnson became the state's first elected governor.\n\nOn March 1, 1781, the Articles of Confederation and Perpetual Union was ratified and took effect with the confirmation signing of the Articles by two Maryland delegates in Philadelphia. The articles had initially been submitted to the states on November 17, 1777, but the ratification process dragged on for several years, stalled by an interstate quarrel over claims to uncolonized land in the west of the Appalachian Mountains to the Mississippi River. Maryland was the last hold-out; it refused to ratify until larger states like Virginia and New York agreed to rescind their claims to lands in what became the old Northwest Territory and the Southwest Territory. Chevalier de La Luzerne, French Minister to the United States, felt that the Articles would help strengthen the American government. In 1780 when Maryland requested France provide naval forces in the Chesapeake Bay for protection from the British (who were conducting raids in the lower part of the bay), he indicated that French Admiral Destouches would do what he could but La Luzerne also \"sharply pressed\" Maryland to ratify the Articles, thus suggesting the two issues were related. On February 2, 1781, the much-awaited decision was taken by the Maryland General Assembly in Annapolis. As the last piece of business during the afternoon Session, \"among engrossed Bills\" was \"signed and sealed by Governor Thomas Sim Lee in the Senate Chamber, in the presence of the members of both Houses... an Act to empower the delegates of this state in Congress to subscribe and ratify the articles of confederation\" and perpetual union among the states. The Senate then adjourned \"to the first Monday in August next.\" The decision of Maryland to ratify the Articles was reported to the Continental Congress on February 12, 1781.\n\nNo significant battles of the American Revolutionary War (1775–1783) occurred in Maryland. However, this did not prevent the state's soldiers from distinguishing themselves through their service. General George Washington was impressed with the Maryland regulars (the \"Maryland Line\") who fought in the Continental Army and, according to one tradition, this led him to bestow the name \"Old Line State\" on Maryland. Today, \"the Old Line State\" is one of Maryland's two official nicknames.\n\nThe Second Continental Congress met briefly in Baltimore from December 20, 1776, through March 4, 1777 at the old hotel, later renamed Congress Hall, at the southwest corner of West Market Street (now Baltimore Street) and Sharp Street/Liberty Street. Marylander John Hanson, served as President of the Continental Congress from 1781 to 1782. Hanson was the first person to serve a full term with the title of \"President of the United States in Congress Assembled\" under the Articles of Confederation and Perpetual Union.\n\nAnnapolis served as the temporary United States capital from November 26, 1783, to June 3, 1784, and the Confederation Congress met in the recently completed Maryland State House. Annapolis was a candidate to become the new nation's permanent capital before the site along the Potomac River was selected for the District of the Columbia. It was in the old Senate chamber that General George Washington famously resigned his commission as commander in chief of the Continental Army on December 23, 1783. It was also there that the Treaty of Paris of 1783, which ended the Revolutionary War, was ratified by Congress on January 14, 1784.\n\nMajor General William Smallwood, having served under General George Washington during the Revolutionary War, then Commander-in-Chief of the Continental Army, became the fourth American Governor of Maryland. In 1787, Governor William Smallwood called together and convened the state convention which adopted the new U.S. Constitution in 1788, becoming the seventh state to ratify the Constitution. This made Governor Smallwood, an American Major General of the Revolutionary War, the first Governor of Maryland under the U.S. Constitution.\n\nThe American Revolution stimulated the domestic market for wheat and iron ore, and flour milling increased in Baltimore. Iron ore transport greatly boosted the local economy. By 1800 Baltimore had become one of the major cities of the new republic. The British naval blockade during the War of 1812 hurt Baltimore's shipping, but also freed merchants and traders from British debts, which along with the capture of British merchant vessels furthered the city's economic growth.\n\nThe city had a deepwater port. In the early 19th century, many business leaders in Maryland were looking inland, toward the western frontier, for economic growth potential. The challenge was to devise a reliable means to transport goods and people. The National Road and private turnpikes were being completed throughout the state, but additional routes and capacity were needed. Following the success of the Erie Canal (constructed 1817–25) and similar canals in the northeastern states, leaders in Maryland were also developing plans for canals. After several failed canal projects in the Washington, D.C. area, the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal (C&O) began construction there in 1828. The Baltimore business community viewed this project as a competitive threat. The geography of the Baltimore area made building a similar canal to the west impractical, but the idea of constructing railroads was beginning to gather support in the 1820s.\n\nIn 1827 city leaders obtained a charter from the Maryland General Assembly to build a railroad to the Ohio River. The Baltimore and Ohio Railroad (B&O) became the first chartered railroad in the United States, and opened its first section of track for regular operation in 1830, between Baltimore and Ellicott City. It became the first company to operate a locomotive built in America, with the \"Tom Thumb.\" The B&O built a branch line to Washington, D.C. in 1835. The main line west reached Cumberland in 1842, beating the C&O Canal there by eight years, and the railroad continued building westward. In 1852 it became the first rail line to reach the Ohio River from the eastern seaboard. Other railroads were built in and through Baltimore by mid-century, most significantly the Northern Central; the Philadelphia, Wilmington and Baltimore; and the Baltimore and Potomac. (All of these came under the control of the Pennsylvania Railroad.)\n\nBaltimore's seaport and good railroad connections fostered substantial growth during the Industrial Revolution of the 19th century. Many manufacturing businesses were established in Baltimore and the surrounding area after the Civil War.\n\nCumberland was Maryland's second largest city in the 19th century, with ample nearby supplies of coal, iron ore and timber. These resources, along with railroads, the National Road and the C&O Canal, fostered its growth. The city was a major manufacturing center, with industries in glass, breweries, fabrics and tinplate.\n\nThe Pennsylvania Steel Company founded a steel mill at Sparrow's Point in Baltimore in 1887. The mill was purchased by Bethlehem Steel in 1916, and it became the world's largest steel mill by the mid-20th century, employing tens of thousands of workers.\n\nIn 1807, the College of Medicine of Maryland (later the University of Maryland Medical School) became the seventh medical school in the United States.\n\nIn 1840, by order of the Maryland state legislature, the non-religious St. Mary's Female Seminary was founded in St. Mary's City. This would later become St. Mary's College of Maryland, the state's public honors college. The United States Naval Academy was founded in Annapolis in 1845, and the Maryland Agricultural College was chartered in 1856, growing eventually into the University of Maryland.\n\nSince the abolition of anti-Catholic laws in the early 1830s, the Catholic population rebounded considerably.\nThe Maryland Catholic population began its resurgence with large waves of Irish Catholic immigration spurred by the Great Potato Famine in Ireland (1845–49) and then continued through the first half of the 20th century. Italian immigration and Polish immigrations also supplemented the Catholic population in Maryland. Baltimore was the third largest point of entry for European immigrants on the Eastern seaboard for much of this period. Although greatly increased, the Catholic population has never become a majority in the state.\n\nAfter the Revolution, the United States Congress approved construction of six heavy frigates to form a nucleus of the United States Navy. One of the first three, the USS \"Constellation\", was constructed in Baltimore. \"Constellation\" became the first official U.S. Navy ship put to sea, deploying to the Caribbean Sea to participate in the Quasi-War against France.\n\nDuring the War of 1812 the British raided cities along Chesapeake Bay up to Havre de Grace. Two notable battles occurred in the state. The first was the Battle of Bladensburg on August 24, 1814, just outside the national capital, Washington, D.C. The British army routed the American militiamen, who fled in confusion, and went on to capture Washington, D.C. They burned and looted major public buildings, forcing President James Madison to flee to Brookeville, Maryland.\n\nThe British next marched to Baltimore, where they hoped to strike a knockout blow against the demoralized Americans. Baltimore was not only a busy port but also suspected of harboring many of the privateers despoiling British ships. The city's defenses were under the command of Major General Samuel Smith, an officer and commander of the Maryland state militia and a United States Senator. Baltimore had been well fortified with excellent supplies and some 15,000 troops. Maryland militia fought a determined delaying action at the Battle of North Point, during which a Maryland militia marksman shot and killed the British commander, Major General Robert Ross. The battle bought enough time for Baltimore's defenses to be strengthened.\n\nAfter advancing to the edge of American defenses, the British halted their advance and withdrew. With the failure of the land advance, the sea battle became irrelevant and the British retreated.\nAt Fort McHenry, some 1000 soldiers under the command of Major George Armistead awaited the British naval bombardment. Their defense was augmented by the sinking of a line of American merchant ships at the adjacent entrance to Baltimore Harbor in order to thwart passage of British ships. The attack began on the morning of September 13, as the British fleet of some nineteen ships began pounding the fort with rockets and mortar shells. After an initial exchange of fire, the British fleet withdrew just beyond the range of Fort McHenry's cannons. For the next 25 hours, they bombarded the outmanned Americans. On the morning of September 14, an oversized American flag, which had been raised before daybreak, flew over Fort McHenry. The British knew that victory had eluded them. The bombardment of the fort inspired Francis Scott Key of Frederick, Maryland to write \"The Star-Spangled Banner\" as witness to the assault. It later became the country's national anthem.\n\n\"See also: American Civil War, Origins of the American Civil War and History of slavery in Maryland\"\n\nMaryland was a border state, straddling the North and South. As in Virginia and Delaware, some planters in Maryland had freed their slaves in the years after the Revolutionary War. By 1860 Maryland's free black population comprised 49.1% of the total of African Americans in the state.\n\nAfter John Brown's raid in 1859 on Harper's Ferry, Virginia, some citizens in slaveholding areas began forming local militias for defense. Of the 1860 population of 687,000, about 60,000 men joined the Union and about 25,000 fought for the Confederacy. The political alignments of each group generally reflected their economic interests, with slaveholders and people involved in trade with the South most likely to favor the Confederate cause, and small farmers and merchants outside the major cities and in western Maryland allied with the Union. In the 1860 election, Lincoln received only one vote in Prince George's County, a center of large plantations.\n\nThe first bloodshed of the war occurred in Baltimore when the 6th Massachusetts Militia battled an attacking mob while marching between railroad stations on April 19, 1861. After that, Baltimore Mayor George William Brown, Marshal George P. Kane, and former Governor Enoch Louis Lowe requested that Maryland Governor Thomas H. Hicks, a slave owner from the Eastern Shore, burn the railroad bridges and cut the telegraph lines leading to Baltimore to prevent further troops from entering the state. Hicks reportedly approved this proposal. These actions were addressed in the famous federal court case of \"Ex parte Merryman\".\n\nMaryland remained part of the Union during the Civil War. President Abraham Lincoln's strong hand suppressing violence and dissent in Maryland and the belated assistance of Governor Hicks played important roles. Hicks worked with federal officials to stop further violence.\n\nLincoln promised to avoid having Northern defenders march through Baltimore while en route to protect the acutely endangered federal capital. The majority of forces took a slow route by boat. Massachusetts militia general Benjamin F. Butler used the water route after learning about the troubles in Baltimore. He commandeered the P. W. & B. Railroad ferryboat \"Harriet Lane\" at the Susquehanna River crossing between Perryville in Cecil County to Havre de Grace in Harford County. Avoiding the riotous city, he steamed down the Chesapeake Bay to anchor at night off the Naval Academy at Severn Point in Annapolis.\n\nHe landed his troops of Massachusetts, New York and Rhode Island militia over the protests of Governor Thomas Holliday Hicks (1798–1865). He put some on the old Navy training ship frigate, \"USS Constitution\" (\"Old Ironsides\") and moved it off shore beyond reach of easy attack. Recruiting some railroad workers and boilermakers among his soldiers, Butler had them rescue a small yard locomotive in the trainyards and use it to take cars full of soldiers up the Annapolis Line of the B&O Railroad to Relay Junction near Ellicott City, where it joined the Main Line going west to Harpers Ferry, West Virginia or south to Washington. The Northern regiments used this route to reach the train station (now Union Station near the U.S. Capitol). They camped that evening in the Rotunda, which was not yet completed. An additional unit was sent up Pennsylvania Avenue to reinforce the White House, where the President greeted them with relief.\n\nMarylanders sympathetic to the South easily crossed the Potomac River to join and fight for the Confederacy. Exiles organized a \"Maryland Line\" in the Army of Northern Virginia which consisted of one infantry regiment, one infantry battalion, two cavalry battalions and four battalions of artillery. According to the best extant records, up to 25,000 Marylanders went south to fight for the Confederacy. About 60,000 Maryland men served in all branches of the Union military. Many of the Union troops were said to enlist on the promise of home garrison duty.\n\nMaryland's naval contribution, the relatively new sloop-of-war USS \"Constellation\" was flagship of the US Africa Squadron from 1859 to 1861 and continued in this role during the war. In this period, she disrupted the African slave trade by interdicting three slave ships and releasing the imprisoned slaves. The last of the ships was captured at the outbreak of the Civil War: \"Constellation\" overpowered the slaver brig \"Triton\" in African coastal waters. \"Constellation\" spent much of the war as a deterrent to Confederate cruisers and commerce raiders in the Mediterranean Sea.\n\nA Union artillery garrison was placed on Federal Hill with express orders to destroy the city should Southern sympathizers overwhelm law and order there. Following the riot of 1861, Union troops under the command of General Benjamin F. Butler occupied the hill in the middle of the night. Butler and his men erected a small fort, with cannon pointing towards the central business district. Their goal was to guarantee the allegiance of the city and the state of Maryland to the federal government under threat of force. This fort and the Union occupation persisted for the duration of the Civil War. A large flag, a few cannon, and a small Grand Army of the Republic monument remain to testify to this period of the hill's history.\n\nBecause Maryland remained in the Union, it fell outside the scope of the Emancipation Proclamation. A constitutional convention in 1864 culminated in the passage of a new state constitution on November 1 of that year. Article 24 of that document outlawed the practice of slavery. A campaign by state politician John Pendleton Kennedy and others ensured that abolishment of slavery would be in the new document, and the issue was hotly contested for nearly a year throughout the state. In the end the elimination of slavery was approved by a 1,000-vote margin. The right to vote was extended to non-white males in the Maryland Constitution of 1867, which is still in effect today.\n\nThe largest and most significant battle fought in the state was the Battle of Antietam, fought on September 17, 1862, near Sharpsburg. The battle was the culmination of Robert E. Lee's Maryland Campaign, which aimed to secure new supplies, recruit fresh men from among the considerable pockets of Confederate sympathies in Maryland, and to impact public opinion in the North. With those goals, Lee's Army of Northern Virginia, consisting of about 40,000 men, had entered Maryland following their recent victory at Second Bull Run.\n\nWhile Major General George B. McClellan's 87,000-man Army of the Potomac was moving to intercept Lee, a Union soldier discovered a mislaid copy of the detailed battle plans of Lee's army. The order indicated that Lee had divided his army and dispersed portions geographically (to Harpers Ferry, West Virginia, and Hagerstown, Maryland), thus making each subject to isolation and defeat in detail if McClellan could move quickly enough. McClellan waited about 18 hours before deciding to take advantage of this intelligence and position his forces based on it, thus endangering a golden opportunity to defeat Lee decisively.\n\nThe armies met near the town of Sharpsburg by Antietam Creek. Although McClellan arrived in the area on September 16, his trademark caution delayed his attack on Lee, which gave the Confederates more time to prepare defensive positions and allowed Longstreet's corps to arrive from Hagerstown and Jackson's corps, minus A. P. Hill's division, to arrive from Harpers Ferry. McClellan's two-to-one advantage in the battle was almost completely nullified by a lack of coordination and concentration of Union forces, which allowed Lee to shift his defensive forces to parry each thrust.\nAlthough a tactical draw, the Battle of Antietam was considered a strategic Union victory and a turning point of the war. It forced the end of Lee's invasion of the North. It also was enough of a victory to enable President Lincoln to issue the Emancipation Proclamation, which took effect on January 1, 1863. He had been advised by his Cabinet to make the announcement after a Union victory, to avoid any perception that it was issued out of desperation. The Union's winning the Battle of Antietam also may have dissuaded the governments of France and Great Britain from recognizing the Confederacy. Some observers believed they may have done so in the aftermath of another Union defeat.\n\nSince Maryland had remained in the Union during the Civil War, the state was not covered by the Reconstruction Act, as were states of the former Confederacy. After the war, many white Maryland residents struggled to re-establish white supremacy over freedmen and formerly free blacks, and racial tensions rose. There were deep divisions in the state between those who fought for the North and those who fought for the South.\n\nIn the late 1860s, the whites of the Democratic Party rapidly regained power in the state and replaced Republicans who had been elected or appointed during the war. Support for the Constitution of 1864 ended, and Democrats replaced it with the Maryland Constitution of 1867. That document, which is still in effect today, resembled the 1851 constitution more than its immediate predecessor and was approved by 54.1% of the state's population. It provided for the reapportionment of the legislature based on population, not counties, which gave greater political power to more dense urban areas (and, by extension, to freedmen), but the new constitution deprived African Americans of some of the protections of the 1864 document.\n\nIn 1896, a biracial Republican coalition gained election of Lloyd Lowndes, Jr. as governor, and also achieved election of some Republican congressmen, including Sydney Emanuel Mudd, after Democratic dominance. Over the next several decades, the African-American population struggled in a discriminatory environment. The Democrat-dominated legislature tried to pass disfranchising bills in 1905, 1907, and 1911, but was rebuffed on each occasion, in large part because of black opposition and strength. Blacks comprised 20% of the electorate and had established themselves in several cities, where they had comparative security. In addition, immigrants comprised 15% of the voting population and opposed these measures. The legislature had difficulty devising requirements against blacks that did not also disadvantage immigrants.\n\nIn 1910 the legislature proposed the Digges Amendment to the state constitution. It would have used property requirements to effectively disfranchise many African Americans as well as many poor whites (including new immigrants), a technique used by other southern states from 1890 to 1910, beginning with Mississippi's new constitution. The Maryland General Assembly passed the bill, which Governor Austin Lane Crothers supported. Before the measure went to popular vote, a bill was proposed that would have effectively passed the requirements of the Digges Amendment into law. Due to widespread public opposition, that measure failed, and the amendment was also rejected by the voters of Maryland.\n\nNationally Maryland citizens achieved the most notable rejection of a black-disfranchising amendment. Similar measures had earlier been proposed in Maryland, but also failed to pass (the Poe Amendment in 1905 and the Straus Amendment in 1909). The power of blacks at the ballot box and economically helped them resist these bills and disfranchising effort.\n\nThe businessmen Johns Hopkins, Enoch Pratt, George Peabody, and Henry Walters were philanthropists of 19th-century Baltimore; they founded notable educational, health care, and cultural institutions in that city. Bearing their names, these include a university, free city library, music and art school, and art museum.\n\nIn the early 20th century, a political reform movement arose, centered in the rising new middle class. One of their main goals included having government jobs granted on the basis of merit rather than patronage. Other changes aimed to reduce the power of political bosses and machines, which they succeeded in doing.\n\nIn a series of laws passed between 1892 and 1908, reformers worked for standard state-issued ballots (rather than those distributed and pre-marked by the parties); obtained closed voting booths to prevent party workers from \"assisting\" voters; initiated primary elections to keep party bosses from selecting candidates; and had candidates listed without party symbols, which discouraged the illiterate from participating. Although promoted as democratic reforms, the changes had other results sought by the middle class. They discouraged participation by the lower classes and illiterate voters. Voting participation dropped from about 82% of eligible voters in the 1890s to about 49% in the 1920s.\n\nOther laws regulated working conditions. For instance, in a series of laws passed in 1902, the state regulated conditions in mines; outlawed child laborers under the age of 12; mandated compulsory school attendance; and enacted the nation's first workers' compensation law. The workers' compensation law was overturned in the courts, but was redrafted and finally enacted in 1910. The law become a model for national legislation a few decades later.\n\nThe debate over prohibition of alcohol, another progressive reform, led to Maryland's gaining its second nickname. A mocking newspaper editorial dubbed Maryland \"the Free State\" for its allowing alcohol.\n\nThe Great Baltimore Fire of 1904 was a momentous event for Maryland's largest city and the state as a whole. The fire raged in Baltimore from 10:48 a.m. Sunday, February 7, to 5:00 p.m. Monday, February 8, 1904. More than 1,231 firefighters worked to bring the blaze under control.\n\nOne reason for the fire's duration was the lack of national standards in fire-fighting equipment. Although fire engines from nearby cities (such as Philadelphia and Washington, as well as units from New York, Wilmington, and Atlantic City) responded, many were useless because their hose couples failed to fit Baltimore hydrants. As a result, the fire burned over 30 hours, destroying 1,526 buildings and spanning 70 city blocks.\n\nIn the aftermath, 35,000 people were left unemployed. After the fire, the city was rebuilt using more fireproof materials, such as granite pavers.\n\nEntry into World War I brought changes to Maryland.\n\nMaryland was the site of new military bases, such as Camp Meade (now Fort Meade), the Aberdeen Proving Ground, which were established in 1917, and the Edgewood Arsenal, which was founded the following year. Other existing facilities, including Fort McHenry, were greatly expanded.\n\nTo coordinate wartime activities, like the expansion of federal facilities, the General Assembly set up a Council of Defense. The 126 seats on the council were filled by appointment. The Council, which had a virtually unlimited budget, was charged with defending the state, supervising the draft, maintaining wage and price controls, providing housing for war-related industries, and promoting support for the war. Citizens were encouraged to grow their own victory gardens and to obey ration laws. They were also forced to work, once the legislature adopted a compulsory labor law with the support of the Council of Defense.\n\nH. L. Mencken (1880–1956) was the state's iconoclastic writer and intellectual trendsetter. In 1922 the \"Sage of Baltimore\" praised the state for its \"singular and various beauty from the stately estuaries of the Chesapeake to the peaks of the Blue Ridge.\" He happily reported that Providence had spared Maryland the harsh weather, the decay, the intractable social problems of other states. Statistically, Maryland held tightly to the middle ground– in population, value of manufacturers, percentage of native whites, the proportion of Catholics, the first and last annual frost. Everywhere he looked he found Maryland in the middle. In national politics it worked sometimes with the northern Republicans, other times with southern Democrats. This average quality perhaps represented a national ideal toward which other states were striving. Nevertheless, Mencken sensed something was wrong. \"Men are ironed out. Ideas are suspect. No one appears to be happy. Life is dull.\"\nIn 1918, Maryland elected Albert C. Ritchie, a Democrat, governor. He was reelected four times, serving from 1919 to 1934. Ritchie was handsome, aristocratic, and very pro-business. He hired a management firm to streamline government operations and established a budget process controlled largely by economists. He also won approval for a civil service system, long been sought by reformers who wanted positions given on the basis of merit and not patronage; reduced the number of state elections by extending legislative terms from two to four years; and appointed citizens' commissions to advise on nearly every aspect of government. State property taxes dropped sharply under Ritchie, but so did state services. A powerful movie censorship board kept subversive ideas away from the masses. Three times, including 1924 and 1932, Ritchie was a candidate for President of the United States, arguing that Presidents Coolidge and Hoover were hopeless spendthrifts. Ritchie lost his bid for the Democratic Party's nomination for President in 1932. Despite a large demonstration of support at the convention, Franklin D. Roosevelt was nominated and went on to win the election. Ritchie continued to serve as governor until 1935.\n\nMaryland's urban and rural communities had different experiences during the Depression. In 1932 the \"Bonus Army\" marched through the state on its way to Washington, D.C. In addition to the nationwide New Deal reforms of President Roosevelt, which put men to work building roads and park facilities, Maryland also took steps to weather the hard times. For instance, in 1937 the state instituted its first ever income tax to generate revenue for schools and welfare.\n\nThe state had some advances in civil rights. The 1935 case \"Murray v. Pearson et al.\" resulted in a Baltimore City Court's ordering integration of University of Maryland Law School. The plaintiff in that case was represented by Thurgood Marshall, a young lawyer with the NAACP and a native of Baltimore. When the state attorney general appealed to the Court of Appeals, it affirmed the decision. Because the state did not appeal the ruling in the federal courts, this state ruling under the U.S. Constitution was the first to overturn \"Plessy v. Ferguson\", the 1896 Supreme Court decision that allowed separate but equal facilities. While the ruling was a moral precedent, it had no authority outside the state of Maryland.\n\nA hurricane in 1933 created an inlet in Sinepuxent Bay at Ocean City, making the then-small town attractive for recreational fishing. During World War II additional large defense facilities were established in the state such as Andrews Air Force Base, Patuxent River Naval Air Station, and the large Glenn L. Martin aircraft factory east of Baltimore.\n\nIn 1952, the eastern and western halves of Maryland were linked for the first time by the long Chesapeake Bay Bridge, which replaced a nearby ferry service. This bridge (and its later, parallel span) increased tourist traffic to Ocean City, which experienced a building boom. Soon after, the Baltimore Harbor Tunnel allowed long-distance interstate motorists to bypass downtown Baltimore, while the earlier Harry W. Nice Memorial Bridge allowed them to bypass Washington, D.C. Two beltways, I-695 and I-495, were built around Baltimore and Washington, while I-70, I-270, and later I-68 linked central Maryland with western Maryland, and I-97 linked Baltimore with Annapolis. Passenger and freight steamboat transportation, previously very important throughout the Chesapeake Bay and its many tributaries, came to an end in mid-century.\n\nIn 1980, the opening of Harborplace and the Baltimore Aquarium made that city a significant tourist destination, while Charles Center, the World Trade Center, and the popular Camden Yards baseball stadium were constructed in the downtown area. Fells Point also became popular. The historic Annapolis waterfront area, previously a working-class fishing port, also became gentrified and a tourist destination. Baltimore's largest employer, the Bethlehem Steel factory at Sparrows Point, shrunk, and the General Motors plant closed, while Johns Hopkins University and Health Care System took Bethlehem's place as Baltimore's largest employer. There are over 350 biotechnology companies in the state. The Social Security – Health Care Financing Administration, Bureau of Standards, U.S. Census Bureau, National Institutes of Health, National Security Agency,and Public Health Service have their headquarters in the state. Metrorail lines were constructed in Montgomery and Prince George's counties, while Baltimore opened its own Metro Subway as well as the north–south Baltimore Light Rail system.\n\nIn addition to general suburban growth, specially planned new communities sprung up, most notably Columbia, but also Montgomery Village, Belair at Bowie, St. Charles, Cross Keys, and Joppatowne, and numerous shopping malls, the state's three largest malls being Annapolis Mall, Arundel Mills and the Towson Town Center. Community colleges were established in nearly every county in Maryland. Large-scale, mechanized poultry farms became prevalent on the lower Eastern Shore, along with irrigated vegetable farming. In Southern Maryland tobacco farming had nearly vanished by the century's end, due to suburban housing development and a state tobacco incentive buy-out program. Industrial, railroad, and coal-mining jobs in the four westernmost counties declined, but that area's economy was helped by expansion of outdoor recreational tourism and new technology jobs and industries. As the 21st century dawned, Maryland joined neighboring states in a new initiative to save the health of Chesapeake Bay, whose aquatic life and seafood industry are threatened by waterfront residential development, as well as by fertilizer and livestock waste entering the bay, especially from Pennsylvania's Susquehanna River. In addition, about of Maryland shore are eroded per year due to the land sinking and rising sea levels. In 2013, Maryland abolished capital punishment.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1926271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926271", "title": "Stephen Abas", "text": "Stephen Abas\n\nStephen Anthony Abas (born January 12, 1978) is an American Olympic Freestyle wrestler and Mixed martial artist. Abas became a three-time NCAA Division I wrestling champion in the weight division while attending Fresno State University. He has competed in two world freestyle championships and received a silver medal at the 2004 Olympic Games.\n\nHe graduated from James Logan High School after two years as a star wrestler. Prior to JLHS he attended Canyon Springs High School, in Moreno Valley, California. He and his brother Gerry Abas were members of the Wan Tu Wazuri wrestling club at Oakland Tech, Oakland, California.\n\nWrestling for California State University, Fresno from 1998–2002, he earned four All-American honours at the D1 NCAA wrestling championships, placing fourth at 118 as a freshman and winning the next three years at the weight class. He finished his college career with a 144-4 record, with 46 pins. going undefeated his last two college seasons.\n\nIn 2009, Abas was inducted into the Fresno County Athletic Hall of Fame.\n\nHe is also a decorated freestyle wrestler; he has competed in two world freestyle championships and received a silver medal at the 2004 Olympic Games. At the 2005 D1 championships, he was named as one of the fifteen greatest wrestlers in NCAA history alongside others standouts such as Kurt Angle, Cael Sanderson, Dan Gable, etc. and was elected to the NCAA 75th Anniversary Wrestling Team.\n\nHe tried out for the 2008 USA Olympic Team and reached the finals of the Olympic Trials, losing to Henry Cejudo in a best of 3 series 2 matches to 1, even though he competed with a damaged knee. In 2008, he retired from competitive wrestling.\n\nHe began a MMA career. He teaches and trains out of The Arena MMA gym in San Diego, alongside other notable athletes such as Diego Sanchez, Joe Duarte, Rani Yahya, KJ Noons, Fabricio Camoes, and Xande Ribeiro.\n\n"}
{"id": "1926276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926276", "title": "Timanfaya National Park", "text": "Timanfaya National Park\n\nTimanfaya National Park () is a Spanish national park in the southwestern part of the island of Lanzarote, in the Canary Islands. It covers parts of the municipalities Tinajo and Yaiza. The area is , and the parkland is entirely made up of volcanic soil.\nThe statue \"El Diablo\" by César Manrique is its symbol.\n\nThe greatest recorded eruptions occurred between 1730 and 1736. The volcanic activity continues as the surface temperature in the core ranges from at the depth of , which is demonstrated by pouring water into the ground, resulting in a geyser of steam which is an attraction for tourists. There is only one active volcano, Timanfaya volcano, after which the park is named.\n\nIn 1993, UNESCO designated a Biosphere reserve covering the whole of Lanzarote. The national park is one of the core areas of the biosphere reserve.\n\nAccess to the park by the public is strictly regulated to protect the delicate flora and fauna. There are one or two footpaths, and a popular short route where one can visit by camel. There is a public car park from which one can tour the volcanic landscape by coach using a road that is otherwise closed to the public.\n"}
{"id": "1926282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926282", "title": "Shai", "text": "Shai\n\nShai (also spelt Sai, occasionally Shay, and in Greek, Psais) was the deification of the concept of fate in Egyptian mythology. As a concept, with no particular reason for associating one gender over another, Shai was sometimes considered female, rather than the more usual understanding of being male, in which circumstance Shai was referred to as Shait (simply the feminine form of the name). His name reflects his function, as it means \"(that which is) ordained\".\n\nAs the god of fate, it was said that he determined the span of each man's life, and was present at the judgement of the soul of the deceased in duat. In consequence, he was sometimes identified as the husband of Mesenet, goddess of birth, or, in later years, of Renenutet, who assigned the Ren, and had become considered goddess of fortune. Because of the power associated in the concept, Akhenaten, in introducing monotheism, said that Shai was an attribute of Aten, whereas Ramses II claimed to be \"lord of Shai\" (i.e. \"lord of fate\").\n\nDuring Ptolemaic Egypt, Shai, as god of fate, was identified with the Greek god Agathodaemon, who was the god of fortune telling. Thus, since Agathodaemon was considered to be a serpent, and the word \"Shai\" was also the Egyptian word for \"pig\", in the Hellenic period, Shai was sometimes depicted as a serpent-headed pig, known to Egyptologists as the \"Shai animal\".\n"}
{"id": "1926283", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926283", "title": "Czesław Ryll-Nardzewski", "text": "Czesław Ryll-Nardzewski\n\nCzesław Ryll-Nardzewski (; 7 October 1926 – 18 September 2015) was a Polish mathematician.\n\nBorn in Wilno, Second Polish Republic (now Vilnius, Lithuania), he was a student of Hugo Steinhaus. At the age of 26 he became professor at the Warsaw University. In 1959, he became a professor at the Wrocław University of Technology. The advisor of many PhD. His main research areas are measure theory, functional analysis, foundations of mathematics and probability theory. Several theorems bear his name: the Ryll-Nardzewski fixed point theorem, the Ryll-Nardzewski theorem in model theory, and the Kuratowski and Ryll-Nardzewski measurable selection theorem.\n\nHe became a member of the Polish Academy of Sciences in 1967. He died in 2015 at the age of 88 and he is buried in the Wrocław, cm. Grabiszyński .\n\n"}
{"id": "1926286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926286", "title": "Not of This Earth (Joe Satriani album)", "text": "Not of This Earth (Joe Satriani album)\n\nNot of This Earth is the debut studio album by guitarist Joe Satriani, released in 1986 through Relativity Records.\n\nIn the liner notes, Satriani provides a brief introduction to himself and the background behind \"Not of This Earth\", which was recorded in early 1985. He states that his goal was \"to make a 'guitar-record' that would be enjoyed by all; not just a 'guitar-chops-record' but one with real music on it.\" He also mentions the recording of a follow-up album which he promises \"will turn heads, drop jaws and create world peace in our lifetime!\"; this would become his 1987 breakthrough smash hit, \"Surfing with the Alien\".\n\nThe album uses electronic drums rather than acoustic drums. The title track utilizes a unique compositional technique described by Satriani as pitch axis theory, which consists of shifting modes underneath a pedal tone (in this case, E). \"The Enigmatic\" uses the enigmatic scale. \"Rubina\" is one of two tracks named after his wife, the other being \"Rubina's Blue Sky Happiness\" on \"The Extremist\" (1992). \"The Headless Horseman\" is performed entirely using a two-handed tapping technique, and was revisited in the form of \"Headless\" on \"Flying in a Blue Dream\" (1989).\n\n\"Not of This Earth\" has been reissued several times. The original cover art used for the first vinyl and CD editions was lost early on, having since been replaced with an alternate cover which has been used for all releases since 1988. Notably the guitar, an Ibanez 540S, with which Satriani is pictured on this second edition cover was never actually used by him, instead being merely \"a promo shot that got too much press\".\n\nThe second major reissue of the album was as part of the \"Joe Satriani Original Album Classics\" box set, released on June 16, 2008 through Epic Records. The most recent reissue was part of \"\", released on April 22, 2014 through Legacy Recordings; this is a box set compilation containing newly remastered editions of every Satriani studio album from 1986 to 2013.\n\nPhil Carter at AllMusic gave \"Not of This Earth\" four stars out of five, describing it as having \"superior compositions, a signature style, a unique tone, and playing that's out of this world.\" He praised Satriani's \"fluid playing and wicked licks [that] are enough to drop jaws and widen eyes\" and that \"There isn't a weak track on this disc\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1926291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926291", "title": "John Pascoe", "text": "John Pascoe\n\nJohn Henry Pascoe (born 10 December 1948) is a former Chief Justice of the Family Court of Australia and Deputy Chancellor of the University of New South Wales.\n\nPascoe was raised in and , the only child of a grazier and a mother with interests in the mining industry. He studied Asian languages and philosophy at the Australian National University, graduating with a Bachelor of Arts in 1969 and Bachelor of Laws (Honours) in 1971.\n\nPrior to his appointment to the bench, Pascoe was the Chairman and CEO of George Weston Foods, Chairman of Centrelink, Deputy Chairman of Aristocrat Leisure Limited and managing director of the Insurance and Risk Management Division of Phillips Fox. He has also held positions on several other corporate boards, such as Qantas. Pascoe was a member of the board of directors (1998–2006) of the International Award Foundation (which operates the Duke of Edinburgh's International Award and National Chair (1995–2004 of the Duke of Edinburgh's International Award – Australia) and in 2016 he was awarded a Gold Distinguished Service Medal. Previously he has held positions on the boards of the Cancer Council of New South Wales, the Sydney Opera House Trust, and the Royal Alexandra Hospital for Children.\n\nPascoe's appointment as Chief Judge has been widely applauded as a result of the significant management skills that he has brought to the Federal Circuit Court of Australia, which continues to be the most rapidly expanding court in Australia. The Federal Circuit Court is the largest federal court in Australia. In December 2015, Pascoe was appointed as the Australian delegate to The Hague working group considering an international surrogacy convention.\n\nJohn was appointed (1995–2004) as National Chair of the Duke of Edinburgh's International Award – Australia and as an International Trustee of the Award from 1998 to 2006. \n\nIn 2002 Pascoe was appointed an Officer of the Order of Australia for service to business and commerce, to children's health, particularly the needs and rights of patients and their families, to the Children's Hospital at Westmead, and to youth training, nationally and internationally, through the Duke of Edinburgh's Award Scheme. Pascoe was appointed Commander of the Royal Victorian Order (CVO) in the 2010 New Year Honours for his services to the Duke of Edinburgh's International Award and in January 2016 was appointed a Companion of the Order of Australia for eminent service to the law and to the judiciary, through support for improved access to the justice system for Indigenous peoples, to legal administration and higher education, and as an advocate for the prevention of international trafficking of children.\n"}
{"id": "1926301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926301", "title": "Székely Land", "text": "Székely Land\n\nThe Székely Land or Szeklerland (, ; (also \"Secuimea\"); ; ) is a historic and ethnographic area in Romania, inhabited mainly by Székelys. Its cultural centre is the city of Târgu Mureș (Marosvásárhely), the largest settlement in the region.\n\nSzékelys (or Szeklers), a subgroup of Hungarians, live in the valleys and hills of the Eastern Carpathian Mountains, corresponding to the present-day Harghita, Covasna, and parts of Mureș counties in Romania.\n\nOriginally, the name \"Székely Land\" denoted the territories of a number of autonomous Székely seats within Transylvania. The self-governing Szekler seats had their own administrative system, and existed as legal entities from medieval times until the 1870s. The privileges of the Székely and Saxon seats were abolished and seats were replaced with counties in 1876.\n\nAlong with Transylvania and eastern parts of Hungary proper, Székely Land became a part of Romania in 1920, in accordance with the Treaty of Trianon. In August 1940, as a consequence of the Second Vienna Award, the northern territories of Transylvania, including Székely Land, were ceded to Hungary, under Third Reich auspices. Northern Transylvania came under the control of Soviet and Romanian forces in 1944, and were confirmed as part of Romania by the Paris peace treaties, signed after World War II, in 1947.\n\nUnder the name Magyar Autonomous Region, with Târgu-Mureș as capital, parts of Székely Land enjoyed a certain level of autonomy between 8 September 1952 and 16 February 1968.\nThere are territorial autonomy initiatives with the aim to obtain self-governance for this region within Romania.\n\nThe exact territory of present-day Szeklerland is disputed. The boundaries of the historical Székely seats and the present-day administrative divisions of Romania are dissimilar. According to Minahan its territory is an estimated . The autonomy proposal of the Szekler National Council consists of about 13,000 km. This size is close to the extent of the historical Székely Land. However, it does not contain the region of Aranyos Seat. The UDMR's autonomy project covers a slightly bigger territory. It includes the whole territories of Mureș, Harghita, and Covasna counties.\n\nTransylvania was populated by Thracian peoples in the First Iron Age. The area received a large influx of Scythians from the East in the first half of the first millennium BC. The Celts appeared in Transylvania in the La Tène period (c. 4th century BC).\n\nDacian culture presence in southeastern Transylvania is marked by discoveries such as the flagship hoard Sâncrăieni (Harghita county) or Dacian fortresses in Covasna county (Cetatea Zânelor) or Jigodin (Harghita county).\n\nDacian Kingdom led by Decebal was taken after two wars, in 106 AD by the Roman Empire under the emperor Trajan, who began organizing the new Roman province of Dacia. Southeastern Transylvania was included in the provinces of Dacia Porolissensis, Dacia Apulensis and Meuse and fortified with numerous camps such as those at Inlăceni ( Praetoria Augusta) and Sânpaul (Harghita county) Breţcu (Angustia) and Oltenia (Covasna county) or Brâncoveneşti and Călugăreni (Mureș county).\n\nAfter the fall of Roman Dacia, present-day territory of Szeklerland became part of the Thervingi kingdom \"\"Gutthiuda\"\". The migration of the Huns from the east pressured most of the German tribes to leave. In the Battle of Nedao the East Germanic Gepids defeated the Huns and founded Gepidia in the territory of present-day Transylvania. This marked the end of the Hunnic Empire.\n\nThe territory of Szeklerland was part of the Avar Khaganate. During this period, Avar and Slavic groups migrated into Transylvania. From around 900 to 1526 the area was under the direct control of the Hungarian state. The Szeklers presumably settled in Transylvania in the 12th century from present day Bihar and Bihor counties.\n\nAncient Hungarian legends suggest a connection between the Székelys and Attila's Huns. The origin of the Székely people is still debated. The Székely seats were the traditional self-governing territorial units of the Transylvanian Székelys during medieval times. (Saxons were also organised in seats.) The Seats were not part of the traditional Hungarian county system, and their inhabitants enjoyed a higher level of freedom (especially until the 18th century) than those living in the counties.\n\nFrom the 12th and 13th centuries, the Székely Land enjoyed a considerable but varying amount of autonomy, first as a part of the Kingdom of Hungary, then inside the Principality of Transylvania. The autonomy was largely due to the military service the Székely provided until the beginning of the 18th century. The medieval Székely Land was an alliance of the seven autonomous Székely seats of \"Udvarhely\", \"Csík\", \"Maros\", \"Sepsi\", \"Kézdi\", \"Orbai\" and \"Aranyos\". The number of seats later decreased to five, when \"Sepsi\", \"Kézdi\" and \"Orbai\" seats were united into one territorial unit called \"Háromszék\" (literally \"Three seats\").\n\nThe main seat was Udvarhely seat, which was also called the Principal seat () At Székelyudvarhely (Odorheiu Secuiesc) were held many national assemblies of the Székelys A known exception is the 1554 assembly, which took place at Marosvásárhely (Târgu Mureș)\n\nDue to the Ottoman conquest Transylvania became a semi-independent polity. From the end of the 17th century, Transylvania became part of the Habsburg Monarchy (later Austrian Empire), and governed by imperial governors. In 1867, as a result of the Austro-Hungarian Compromise, Transylvania become an integral part of the Kingdom of Hungary, within Austria-Hungary.\n\nIn 1876, a general administrative reform abolished all the autonomous areas in the Kingdom of Hungary and created a unified system of counties. As a result, the autonomy of the Székely Land came to an end as well. Four counties were created in its place: Udvarhely, Háromszék, Csík, and Maros-Torda. (Only half of the territory of Maros-Torda originally belonged to Székely Land.) The isolated Aranyosszék became a district of Torda-Aranyos county.\n\nIn December 1918, in the wake of the First World War, Romanian delegates from throughout Transylvania voted to join the Kingdom of Romania. There was an attempt in Székelyudvarhely to found a \"Székely Republic\" on 9 January 1919; however, its creation was unsuccessful. In 1920, by the Treaty of Trianon, Transylvania along with further territories was officially ceded to the Kingdom of Romania. The Romanian language officially replaced Hungarian in the Székely Land, but Székely county boundaries were preserved, and Székely districts were able to elect their own officials at local level and to preserve Hungarian-language education.\n\nAfter 1930, the Romanian authorities began to Romanianize the Hungarian population of Székely Land.; the presence of minorities in political life was repressed. The election of Hungarians was consistently nullified. The place-names were subjected to Romanianization. The minority languages were excised from official life and the local authorities were mostly led by appointed ethnic Romanians.\n\nIn 1940, as a result of the Second Vienna Award, Northern Transylvania became part of Hungary again; this territory included most of the historical Székely areas. Hungarian authorities subsequently restored the pre-Trianon structure with slight modifications. \nIon Gigurtu's antisemitic laws, the Romanian version of Nuremberg Laws, were replaced by Hungarian ones. The Jews of the Székely Land were subjected to particularly harsh treatment. These individuals had their citizenship status reviewed, many of them being detained. In Csíkszereda (\"Miercurea Ciuc\"), dozens of families were rounded up and expelled. The men in the area were drafted into forced labor battalions. For example, 1,200 Jewish males of Marosvásárhely (\"Târgu Mureș\") were conscripted between 1941 and 1944; over half died in Ukraine, Poland and Hungary.\n\nHowever, despite discrimination and many casualties, most of the community lived in relative safety until the March 1944 occupation of Hungary by Nazi Germany. A conference devoted to the concentration of Jews in the Székely Land was held on 28 April 1944; it covered the counties of Csík, Háromszék, Maros-Torda and Udvarhely. The area's Jews were ghettoized in Szászrégen (\"Reghin\"), Sepsiszentgyörgy (\"Sfântu Gheorghe\") and Marosvásárhely. Roundups began on 3 May 1944 and were completed within a week. The Hungarian authorities actively participated in the crimes of the Nazis. The Jews ghettoized at Sepsiszentgyörgy were later sent to Szászrégen, whence on 4 June 1944, 3,149 were boarded on a train bound for the Auschwitz concentration camp. Three transports left Marosvásáhely for Auschwitz: on 27 May, 30 May and 8 June 1944; altogether, they carried 7,549 Jews.\n\nOn 12 September 1944, the Second Vienna Award was voided by the Allied Commission through the Armistice Agreement with Romania, and the Romanian-Soviet forces seized the area in Autumn 1944; however, the Romanian administration was expelled from these territories in October due to the activities of the Romanian paramilitary groups created in the area to avenge the atrocities committed by the Hungarians against the Romanians during the Hungarian rule in Northern Transylvania. For instance, the so-called \"Iuliu Maniu Guards\" terrorized the Szekler villages, butchered the local Hungarians by axe and hatchet and operated a death camp in Feldioara. This paramilitary group was described as \"\"a band of terrorist-chauvinistic criminals\"\" by the Soviets. The USSR let the Romanian authorities back to the area in March 1945, and the Paris Peace Treaties officially returned Northern Transylvania to Romania.\n\nFollowing the Northern Transylvania's return to Romania after World War II, a Magyar Autonomous Region was created in 1952 under the Soviets' pressure, which encompassed most of the land inhabited by the Székelys. In 1960, the region was renamed to Mureș-Magyar Autonomous Region. It was abolished in 1968, when Romania, following an administrative reform, returned to its traditional local administrative system based on counties. Roughly speaking, present-day Harghita County encompasses the former Udvarhely and Csík, the latter including Gyergyószék; Covasna County covers more or less the territory of the former Háromszék; and what was once Maros-Torda is mostly part of present-day Mureş County. The former Aranyosszék is today divided between Cluj and Alba counties.\n\nNicolae Ceaușescu got to power in 1965. For the next couple of decades, due to the Romanianization efforts, a large number of ethnic Romanians settled in Székely Land. Those Székely Hungarians who possessed degrees were subjected to resettlement.\nIn March 1990, the city of Târgu Mureș witnessed violent clashes between ethnic Romanian and Hungarian groups.\n\nAfter the fall of communism, many hoped that the former Magyar Autonomous Region, abolished by Nicolae Ceauşescu's regime, would soon be restored. This did not happen; however, there are Székely autonomy initiatives and further efforts from Székely organisations to reach a higher level of self-governance for the Székely Land within Romania.\n\nOn 2 February 2009, Romanian President Traian Băsescu met the Hungarian President László Sólyom in Budapest and discussed the issues of minority rights and regional autonomy. Băsescu stated \"The Hungarian minority will never be given territorial autonomy.\"\n\nIn 2014, the UDMR and the Hungarian Civic Party had a joint autonomy proposal for Szeklerland but the Szekler National Council also possessed its own suggestion.\n\nIn 2016, Hans G. Klemm, the United States Ambassador to Romania, together with other local officials, were pictured with a Szekler flag during his visit to Szeklerland. The photo was posted by the mayor of Sfântu Gheorghe on Facebook. The reactions of the politicians in Bucharest were turbulent. In a response Klemm affirmed that the only two flags that are important to him, as a diplomat, are the U.S. and the Romanian ones.\n\nArticle 1 of the Romanian Constitution defines the country as a \"sovereign, independent, unitary and indivisible national state.\" It has often been argued that, as a result of this provision, any ethnic-based territorial autonomy, including that of the Székely Land, would be unconstitutional.\n\nThe Supreme Council of National Defence of Romania declared that an autonomy of the so-called Székely Land would be unconstitutional.\n\nIn 2002 the estimated ethnic composition of Székely Land (Mureș, Covasna and Harghita counties) consisted of Hungarians (61%), Romanians (33%), Germans (3%) and Roma (3%). The area forms a Hungarian ethnic enclave within present-day Romania.\n\nThe population of historical Székely Land (according to the 2002 census) is 809,000, 612,043 of them Hungarians, accounting for 75.65% of the total. The Hungarians represent 59% of the populations of Harghita, Covasna and Mureș counties. The percentage of Hungarians is higher in Harghita and Covasna (84.8% and 73.58% respectively), and lower in Mureș County, not all of which falls inside the traditional region (37.82%).\n\nAccording to the 2011 official census, 609,033 Hungarians (56.8%) live in the counties of Covasna, Harghita and Mureș (out of a total population of 1,071,890 inhabitants). In Mureș county the Romanians are the most numerous (52.6%), while in the counties of Covasna and Harghita, the Hungarians make up the majority (71.6% and 82.9%). The 2011 census compared to the data of the previous census (2002) also shows that the Romanian ethnic ratio in Szeklerland has been decreasing (due to emigration).\n\nTârgu Mureș is the home for the largest community of Hungarians in Romania (57,532 in 2011), but the town itself has a Romanian majority (66,943 out of 127,849 inhabitants).\n\nImportant centers of the Székely Land are Târgu-Mureş (\"Marosvásárhely\"), Miercurea Ciuc (\"Csíkszereda\"), Sfântu Gheorghe (\"Sepsiszentgyörgy\"), and Odorheiu Secuiesc (\"Székelyudvarhely\").\n\n\n\n\n\nThe Székely ice hockey team Sport Club of Csíkszereda, with mainly home trained, local players (Székelys), plays simultaneously in the MOL League (Hungarian League) and in the Romanian Ice Hockey Championship. Starting with the 2010/2011 season, the Sport Club ice hockey team participated at the championships under the name HSC Csíkszereda and that year it won its first MOL League title as well.\n\nThe team's main achievements so far:\nThe Romanian Championship (fifteen times winner): 1949, 1952, 1957, 1960, 1963, 1997, 2000, 2004, 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013.\nThe Romanian Cup (ten times winner): 1950, 1952, 1995, 2001, 2003, 2006, 2007, 2010, 2011, 2014.\nPannonian League (one-time winner): 2004.\nMOL League (one-time winner): 2011.\n\nThe majority of the Romanian men's national ice hockey team consist of Székely players. The national team are ranked 28th in the 2010 IIHF World Rankings and currently compete in Division IIA.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1926304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926304", "title": "National Journal", "text": "National Journal\n\nNational Journal is an advisory services company based in Washington, D.C., offering services in government affairs, advocacy communications, stakeholder mapping, and policy brands research for government and business leaders. It publishes daily journalism covering politics and public policy and is led by President Kevin Turpin, \"National Journal Daily\" Editor in Chief Jeff Dufour and \"Hotline\" Editor in Chief Leah Askarinam.\n\nInitially popularized by its weekly magazine, which closed in December 2015 after 46 years of publication, \"National Journal\" shifted to a paid membership model in 2011 and began providing strategic research and analysis through its suite of products for government affairs and public policy professionals. \"National Journal\" now serves over 1,000 members from both the public and private sectors.\n\n\"National Journal\" was founded in 1969 as the Government Research Corporation, a premium research service and journalism company, and was published for many years by the Times Mirror Corporation, which also owned the \"Los Angeles Times\" at the time.\n\nDavid G. Bradley, who founded the Advisory Board Company and Corporate Executive Board, purchased \"National Journal\" and \"The Hotline\" from Times Mirror in 1997 to form the National Journal Group. Bradley also acquired Government Executive in his deal for \"National Journal\", and added \"The Atlantic\" magazine soon after in 1999. Bradley later consolidated the properties to form Atlantic Media. In 2005, Bradley centralized all of his publications at Atlantic Media's headquarters in the Watergate Building in Washington, D. C.\n\nAtlantic Media now publishes several prominent news magazines and digital publications including \"The Atlantic\", \"Government Executive\", and \"Defense One\", in addition to \"The Hotline\" and \"National Journal Daily\", which are published under the National Journal brand.\n\nNational Journal's core membership package includes access to daily journalism including \"NJ Daily\" and \"The Hotline\", research and syndicated content from Presentation Center, Washington Briefing, and \"The Almanac of American Politics,\" strategic support resources, and events. National Journal also provides research and advisory services. Launched in 2017, Network Science Initiative, a produce by National Journal, helps members achieve their advocacy and strategic goals by identifying key influencer networks surrounding specific policy areas and issues. In summer 2020, National Journal will launch a new people research database that will provide in-depth profiles of influencers and policymakers at the federal, state, and local level as well as key international players. This insight will enable members to build stronger relationships in Washington.\n\n\"National Journal\"'s editorial products include:\n\n\nSome of its best known current and former contributors have been:\n"}
{"id": "1926308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926308", "title": "Roseworthy", "text": "Roseworthy\n\nRoseworthy may refer to:\n"}
{"id": "1926314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926314", "title": "1st Army (Kingdom of Yugoslavia)", "text": "1st Army (Kingdom of Yugoslavia)\n\nThe 1st Army was a Royal Yugoslav Army formation commanded by \"Armijski đeneral\" Milan Rađenković during the German-led Axis invasion of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia in April 1941 during World War II. It consisted of one infantry division, one horsed cavalry division, and two brigade-strength infantry detachments. It formed part of the 2nd Army Group, and was responsible for the defence of the section of the Yugoslav-Hungarian border between the Danube and the Tisza rivers.\n\nThe 1st Army was not directly attacked during the first few days after the invasion commenced, but attacks on its flanks resulted in successive orders to withdraw to the lines of the Danube and then the Sava. The Hungarians then crossed the border in the sector for which the 1st Army had been responsible, but the Yugoslavs were already withdrawing and the Hungarians faced almost no resistance. This was followed by the German capture of Belgrade and the rear area units of 1st Army. Remnants of the 1st Army continued to resist along the line of the Sava, within days, tens of thousands of Yugoslav soldiers had been captured. The Germans closed on Sarajevo, and accepted the unconditional surrender of the Royal Yugoslav Army on 17 April, which came into effect at the following day.\n\nThe Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes was created with the merger of Serbia, Montenegro and the South Slav-inhabited areas of Austria-Hungary on 1 December 1918, in the immediate aftermath of World War I. The Army of the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes was established to defend the new state. It was formed around the nucleus of the victorious Royal Serbian Army, as well as armed formations raised in regions formerly controlled by Austria-Hungary. Many former Austro-Hungarian officers and soldiers became members of the new army. From the beginning, much like other aspects of public life in the new kingdom, the army was dominated by ethnic Serbs, who saw it as a means by which to secure Serb political hegemony.\n\nThe army's development was hampered by the kingdom's poor economy, and this continued during the 1920s. In 1929, King Alexander changed the name of the country to the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, at which time the army was renamed the Royal Yugoslav Army (, VKJ). The army budget remained tight, and as tensions rose across Europe during the 1930s, it became difficult to secure weapons and munitions from other countries. Consequently, at the time World War II broke out in September 1939, the VKJ had several serious weaknesses, which included reliance on draught animals for transport, and the large size of its formations. Infantry divisions had a wartime strength of 26,000–27,000 men, as compared to contemporary British infantry divisions of half that strength. These characteristics resulted in slow, unwieldy formations, and the inadequate supply of arms and munitions meant that even the very large Yugoslav formations had low firepower. Generals better suited to the trench warfare of World War I were combined with an army that was neither equipped nor trained to resist the fast-moving combined arms approach used by the Germans in their invasions of Poland and France.\n\nThe weaknesses of the VKJ in strategy, structure, equipment, mobility and supply were exacerbated by serious ethnic disunity within Yugoslavia, resulting from two decades of Serb hegemony and the attendant lack of political legitimacy achieved by the central government. Attempts to address the disunity came too late to ensure that the VKJ was a cohesive force. Fifth column activity was also a serious concern, not only from the Croatian nationalist \"Ustaše\" but also from the country's Slovene and ethnic German minorities.\n\nThe 1st Army was commanded by \"Armijski đeneral\" Milan Rađenković, and his chief of staff was \"Brigadni đeneral\" Todor Milićević. It was organised and mobilised on a geographic basis from the 1st Army District, which was divided into divisional districts, each of which was subdivided into regimental regions. The 1st Army consisted of:\n\nIts support units included the 56th Army Artillery Regiment, the 1st Anti-Aircraft Battalion, and the 1st Army Anti-Aircraft Company. The 1st Air Reconnaissance Group comprising fifteen Breguet 19s was attached from the Royal Yugoslav Air Force and was based at Ruma just south of Novi Sad.\n\nThe 1st Army was part of the 2nd Army Group, which was responsible for the eastern section of the Yugoslav-Hungarian border, with the 1st Army deployed in the Bačka region between the Danube and the Tisza, and the 2nd Army in the Baranya and Slavonia regions between Slatina and the Danube. On the right flank of the 1st Army was the 6th Army, an independent formation that was responsible for the defence of the Yugoslav Banat region east of the Tisza. The boundary with the 2nd Army ran just east of the Danube to Vukovar, then south towards Bijeljina. The boundary with the 6th Army ran just to the east of the Tisza to the confluence with the Danube, then south across the Sava through Obrenovac. The Yugoslav defence plan saw the 1st Army deployed with one division forward with an infantry detachment on each flank, and a cavalry division held in depth. The deployment of the 1st Army from west to east was:\n\nThe 44th Infantry Division \"Unska\", which was under the direct command of the General Headquarters of the VKJ, was deployed in the 1st Army area to the east of the 3rd Cavalry Division, centred on Stara Pazova on the road between Novi Sad and Belgrade.\n\nThe 1st Army faced the Hungarian 3rd Army, and during the first few days after the commencement of the invasion, there were exchanges of fire with Hungarian border guards, but the 1st Army faced no direct attacks. Neither the 1st Army or the Hungarians were ready for full-scale fighting, as they were still mobilising and deploying their forces. On 9 April, due to events in other parts of Yugoslavia, the 6th Army on the right flank of the 1st Army was ordered to withdraw south of the Danube and deploy on a line facing east to defend against an attack from the direction of Sofia, Bulgaria. 2nd Army Group also received orders to withdraw south of the line of the Drava and Danube. 1st Army began to withdraw, and on the same day elements were approaching the Danube crossing.\n\nThe following day, the situation deteriorated significantly when the German XLI Motorised Corps crossed the Yugoslav-Romanian border into the Yugoslav Banat and struck the 6th Army, halting its withdrawal and disrupting its ability to organise a coherent defence behind the Danube. Also on 10 April, the main thrust of the XLVI Motorised Corps of the 2nd Army, consisting of the 8th Panzer Division leading the 16th Motorised Infantry Division crossed the Drava at Barcs in the 4th Army sector. The 8th Panzer Division turned southeast between the Drava and Sava rivers, and meeting almost no resistance and with strong air support, had reached Slatina by evening, despite poor roads and bad weather.\n\nLater that day, as the situation was becoming increasingly desperate throughout the country, Dušan Simović, who was both the Prime Minister and Yugoslav Chief of the General Staff, broadcast the following message:\n\nThe bulk of the 1st Army were able to cross the Danube and began to prepare defences. By the evening of 10 April, the 1st Army was ordered to withdraw from this line and form a defensive line behind the Sava from Debrc to the confluence with the Vrbas river, for which one or two days would be needed. On the night of 10/11 April, the whole 2nd Army Group continued its withdrawal, but units of the 2nd Army on the left flank of the 1st Army that included significant numbers of Croats began to dissolve due to the fifth column activities of the fascist Ustaše and their sympathisers.\n\nAt dawn on 11 April, Hungarian forces, consisting with the Mobile, IV and V Corps of \"Vezérezredes\" (Lieutenant General) Elemér Gorondy-Novák's 3rd Army, crossed the Yugoslav border north of Osijek and near Subotica, overcame Yugoslav border guards and advanced on Subotica and Palić. The XLVI Motorised Corps continued to push east south of the Drava, with the 8th Panzer Division capturing Našice, Osijek on the Drava, and Vukovar on the Danube, followed by the 16th Motorised Infantry Division which advanced east of Našice, despite bridge demolitions and poor roads. The 8th Panzer Division had effectively routed the 2nd Army Group by 11 April. On the same day, Messerschmitt Bf 110's of I Group of the 26th Heavy Fighter Wing ( 26, ZG 26) destroyed several 1st Air Reconnaissance Group Breguet 19s at Ruma. The rest were flown to Bijeljina, but were destroyed the following day when I/ZG 26 swept over the airfield in one of the most effective attacks of the campaign. On the night of 11/12 April, the 8th Panzer Division captured Sremska Mitrovica on the Sava at 02:30, destroyed a bridge over the Danube at Bogojevo, and advanced on Lazarevac about south of Belgrade. These advances delayed the withdrawal of the 2nd Army Group south of the Sava.\n\nBy 12 April, the withdrawal of the 2nd Army Group was being threatened from the left flank, with 2nd Army having \"no combat importance at all\". On the right flank, 6th Army attempted to regroup while being pressed by the 11th Panzer Division as it drove towards Belgrade. West of Belgrade, remnants of the 2nd Army Group tried to establish a line along the Sava, but XLVI Motorised Corps had already captured the bridges. When elements of the 8th Panzer Division captured Zemun without a fight, they captured 1st Army's rear area units. On 12 April, the 1st Army's 3rd Cavalry Division counter-attacked at Šabac and pushed the Germans back across the Sava. The Hungarians pursued the 1st Army south, and occupied the area between the Danube and the Tisza meeting virtually no resistance. Serb Chetnik irregulars fought isolated engagements, and the Hungarian General Staff considered irregular resistance forces to be their only significant opposition. The Hungarian 1st Parachute Battalion captured canal bridges at Vrbas and Srbobran. This, the first airborne operation in Hungarian history, was not without incident. The battalion's aircraft consisted of five Italian-made Savoia-Marchetti SM.75 transport aircraft formerly with the civilian airline MALERT, but pressed into service with the Royal Hungarian Air Force (, MKHL) at the start of the European war. Shortly after takeoff from the airport at Veszprém-Jutas on the afternoon of 12 April, the command plane, code E-101, crashed with the loss of 20 or 23 lives, including 19 paratroopers. This was the heaviest single loss suffered by the Hungarians during the Yugoslav campaign. Meanwhile, Sombor was captured against determined Chetnik resistance, and Subotica was also captured.\n\nOn the evening of 12 April, elements of the SS Motorised Infantry Division \"Reich\", under command of XLI Motorised Corps crossed the Danube in pneumatic boats and captured Belgrade without resistance. About the same time, most of the elements of XLVI Motorised Corps that were approaching Belgrade from the west were redirected away from the capital. Elements of the 8th Panzer Division did continue their thrust to capture the Sava bridges to the west of Belgrade, and entered the city during the night. The rest of the 8th Panzer Division turned southeast and drove towards Valjevo to link up with the left flank of the First Panzer Group southwest of Belgrade. The 16th Motorised Infantry Division was redirected south across the Sava, and advanced toward Zvornik.\n\nOn 13 April, the Hungarians occupied Baranja without resistance, and pushed south through Bačka to reach the line of Novi Sad and the Great Bačka Canal. Early on 14 April, the remnants of 2nd Army Group, including the 1st Army, continued to fight against the 8th Panzer Division and 16th Motorised Infantry Division along the Sava. On 14 and 15 April, tens of thousands of Yugoslav soldiers were taken prisoner by the Germans during their drive on Sarajevo in the centre of the country, including 30,000 around Zvornik and 6,000 around Doboj. On 15 April, the 8th and 14th Panzer Divisions entered Sarajevo. After a delay in locating appropriate signatories for the surrender document, the Yugoslav High Command unconditionally surrendered in Belgrade effective at 12:00 on 18 April.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1926325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926325", "title": "Martin Rosen (director)", "text": "Martin Rosen (director)\n\nMartin Rosen (born August 31, 1936) is an American filmmaker and theater producer. Rosen is known for having directed the animated film adaptations of \"Watership Down\" (1978) and \"The Plague Dogs\" (1982), both from the Richard Adams novels.\n\nRosen originally worked as a theater agent and talent scout, before he moved with his wife to the United Kingdom.\n\nHe first produced the Canadian feature \"A Great Big Thing\" (1968) and later co-produced Ken Russell's film version of \"Women in Love\" (1969), which won Academy Awards for Glenda Jackson and Billy Williams (cinematography).\n\nRosen was originally the producer of \"Watership Down\" but took over as director after John Hubley, the original director, left after disagreements with Rosen. He also wrote the screenplay for it. This was the first of two novels by Richard Adams he adapted. In 1982 he also produced, directed and wrote the screenplay for another animated feature based on an Adams novel, \"The Plague Dogs\" (1982). Rosen produced \"Smooth Talk\" (1986), which won the Sundance Grand Prize. His last film as director was \"Stacking\" (1987). His last project as producer was the animated \"\"Watership Down\" TV series in 1999.\n\nRosen has also worked in theater production. He was the originating producer of Michael Weller's \"Moonchildren\", first presented at London's Royal Court Theater before transferring to the US. He was the originating producer of Maxine Hong Kingston's \"The Woman Warrior\", presented in association with The Berkeley Rep, Boston's Huntington Theater, and the Doolittle Theater in Los Angeles.\n\nRosen is married to Elisabeth Payne Rosen, an author and ordained deacon in the Episcopal Church. They reside in California.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1926329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926329", "title": "Tommy Head", "text": "Tommy Head\n\nTommy Head (born June 4, 1945 in Robertson County, Tennessee) is a Tennessee Democratic politician and a former member of that state's House of Representatives. He is also a farmer and a utility contractor.\n\nHead is a 1965 graduate of Cumberland College in Lebanon, Tennessee with an associate's degree, and a 1967 graduate of Austin Peay State University in Clarksville, Tennessee. He taught high school and coached basketball for two years after his university graduation. He is the brother of legendary women's basketball coach Pat Head Summitt.\n\nIn 1986, Head was elected to the Tennessee House of Representatives and served nine terms until being defeated for reelection in 2004. He served District 68. While in the House he served as the chairman of several subcommittees and the vice-chairman of several committees, mostly those dealing with finance. He was regarded as one of the chamber's most powerful Middle Tennessee-based members at one point.\n"}
{"id": "1926335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926335", "title": "Roman type", "text": "Roman type\n\nIn Latin script typography, roman is one of the three main kinds of historical type, alongside blackletter and italic. Roman type was modelled from a European scribal manuscript style of the 15th century, based on the pairing of inscriptional capitals used in ancient Rome with Carolingian minuscules developed in the Holy Roman Empire.\n\nDuring the early Renaissance, roman (in the form of Antiqua) and italic type were used separately. Today, roman and italic type are mixed, and most typefaces are composed of an upright roman style with an associated italic or oblique style.\n\nEarly roman typefaces show a variety of designs, for instance characters resembling what would now be considered blackletter. Printers and typefounders such as Nicolas Jenson and Aldus Manutius in Venice and later Robert Estienne in France codified the modern characteristics of Roman type, for instance an 'h' with a nearly straight right leg, serifs on the outside of the capital 'M' and 'N', and 'e' with level cross stroke, by the 1530s.\n\nPopular roman typefaces include Bembo, Baskerville, Caslon, Jenson, Times New Roman and Garamond.\n\nThe name \"roman\" is customarily applied uncapitalized distinguishing early Italian typefaces of the Renaissance period and most subsequent upright types based on them, in contrast to \"Roman\" letters dating from classical antiquity.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1926352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926352", "title": "Carrie Best", "text": "Carrie Best\n\nCarrie M. Best, (March 4, 1903 – July 24, 2001) was a Black Canadian journalist and social activist.\n\nCarrie was born in New Glasgow, Nova Scotia. She was the daughter of James and Georgina Ashe Prevoe. In 1925, she married Albert T. Best in 1925. Together, they had one son, named James Calbert Best in 1926. They would later adopt 4 foster children.\n\nIn 1943 she confronted the racial segregation of the Roseland Theatre in New Glasgow. She purchased two tickets for the downstairs seating of the theatre and attempted to watch a film with her son James Calbert Best. Both were arrested and fought the charges in an attempt to challenge the legal justification of the theatre's segregation. Their case was unsuccessful and they had to pay damages to Roseland's owners. However, the experience helped motivate Carrie Best to found \"The Clarion\" in 1946, the first black-owned and published Nova Scotia newspaper. It became an important voice in exposing racism and exploring the lives of Black Nova Scotians. In the first edition of \"The Clarion\" she broke the story of Viola Desmond who also challenged racial segregation at the Roseland Theatre and whose story became a milestone human rights case in Canada. In 1952 Carrie Best started a radio show, \"The Quiet Corner\", which was aired for 12 years. From 1968 to 1975 she was a columnist for \"The Pictou Advocate\", a newspaper based in Pictou, Nova Scotia.\n\nHer son James Calbert Best, who helped found \"The Clarion\", went on to become a union activist, senior public servant and high commissioner to Trinidad and Tobago.\n\nIn 1977, she published an autobiography, \"That Lonesome Road\".\n\nIn 1974, she was made a Member of the Order of Canada and was promoted to Officer in 1979. She was posthumously awarded the Order of Nova Scotia in 2002. She is commemorated on a postage stamp issued by Canada Post on February 1, 2011. Best died at the age of 98 of natural causes in her hometown New Glasgow.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1926364", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926364", "title": "Yattendon", "text": "Yattendon\n\nYattendon is a geographically small village and civil parish northeast of Newbury, Berkshire. The M4 motorway passes through the fields of the village which lie south and below the elevations of its cluster.\n\nYattendon stretches from Everington in the west to the hamlet of Burnt Hill in the east and the woodland just east of Yattendon Court, including Mumgrove Copse, Bushy Copse, Clack's Copse and Gravelpit Copse. The motorway forms most of its southern boundary and some of the houses on the northern edge of Frilsham are actually in Yattendon. The River Pang flows through the west of the parish. It was in the hundred of Faircross, which was of little consequence after the Dissolution of the Monasteries and effectively ceased to function after 1886.\n\nThe village has had a shop since the 1600s.\n\nWilliam Burham, a saddler and harness maker had a shop in the village from 1901 until his death in the early 1960s. A collection of his leather working tools is in the Museum of English Rural Life.\n\nNotable residents of Yattendon include:\n\nThe fortified manor house or castle, Yattendon Castle was home of:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1926377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926377", "title": "State Committee for Publishing", "text": "State Committee for Publishing\n\nGoskomizdat (Russian: Госкомиздат, an abbreviation for Государственный комитет по делам издательств, полиграфии и книжной торговли СССР, \"Gosudarstvenny komitet po delam izdatelstv, poligrafii i knizhnoy torgovli SSSR\") was the State Committee for Publishing in the Soviet Union.\n\nIt had control over publishing houses, printing plants, the book trade, and was in charge of the ideological and political censorship of literature.\n\n"}
{"id": "1926387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926387", "title": "Maranatha College", "text": "Maranatha College\n\nMaranatha College was a seventh-day Sabbatarian Bible college located in Meridian, Idaho. Maranatha College's name derives from the New Testament phrase maranatha, meaning \"behold, the Lord is coming\". The purpose of Maranatha College was to train men and women for Christian ministries.\n\nIn 2004, Maranatha launched an online studies program that allowed students the opportunity to earn a Certificate of Ministry through distance learning methods. Currently, Maranatha College has students from the United States, Canada, Europe, Africa, and the Caribbean Islands. In 2005, Maranatha College held its first regional classes in Michigan, Missouri, and Idaho, sponsored a mission trip to Mexico, and opened an extension campus in Ghana, Africa.\n\nResponding to the need to train Christians for the ministry, Maranatha planned to add Associate of Ministry and Bachelor of Ministry degrees. Its faculty consisted of scholars of theology and the Bible as well as veteran pastors. Maranatha College was administered by the General Council Churches of God, 7th Day (not to be confused with General Conference of the Church of God (Seventh-Day)).\n\nThe college is now inactive. Its website was last online in 2011, as seen in the Internet Archive.\n\n"}
{"id": "1926389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926389", "title": "Jackson State Community College", "text": "Jackson State Community College\n\nJackson State Community College is a public community college in Jackson, Tennessee. It is governed by the Tennessee Board of Regents and offers associate degrees in arts, science, and applied science programs. It has the largest enrollment of any college in Jackson.\n\nJackson State's first president was Dr. F.E. Wright, who served from 1967 until his death in 1976. Walter L. Nelms was president of the college for 21 years, until his retirement in 1997. He was succeeded by Charlie Delmer Roberts Jr., who served at Jackson State until 2004, when Dr. Bruce Blanding became the fourth president of the college. Blanding served until 2016 and was followed by Interim President Horace Chase, who served until December 2016, when Dr. Allana R. Hamilton was appointed as the fifth president of the college. Hamilton took office on January 10, 2017. Dr. Hamilton served as President until 2019, when she was appointed as Vice President of Academic Affairs for the Tennessee Board of Regents. Dr. Jeff Sisk has been appointed as interim president until a permanent successor will be named.\n\nJackson State has branch campuses in Lexington, Tennessee, Savannah, Tennessee, Humboldt, Tennessee, and Paris, Tennessee.\n\nJackson State is home to four sport's teams: Men's Basketball, Women's Basketball, Baseball, and Softball.\n"}
{"id": "1926397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926397", "title": "List of Deadwood characters", "text": "List of Deadwood characters\n\nThis article contains descriptions and biographies of fictional characters appearing in the HBO original television series \"Deadwood\" and in 2019's \"\".\n\nSeth Bullock (Timothy Olyphant) leaves Etobicoke, Ontario and becomes a marshal in Montana. Soon he hears stories of gold in Deadwood. Rather than searching for gold, Bullock opens a hardware store with his best friend and longtime business partner, Sol Star. At the camp, he meets Wild Bill Hickok. When Hickok is murdered, Bullock pursues the killer into the Black Hills and captures him, taking him back to Dakota for trial. After his return, he becomes sheriff of Deadwood. Bullock, one of the few honest men in the camp, is soon enlisted to look after a gold claim for Alma Garret, an upper-class woman from the East Coast whose husband was murdered by Al Swearengen's men over the claim. Eventually, the two become sexually involved, despite the fact that Bullock is married to his brother's widow and is the stepfather of their son, his biological nephew.\n\nHe decides ultimately to end his relationship with Alma when his wife, Martha, and stepson William come to Deadwood. Later he learns Alma is pregnant with his child, but the pregnancy ends in miscarriage after she is married to Whitney Ellsworth. The relationship between Bullock and Martha continues to be rocky in the aftermath of her arrival until they are struck by tragedy, when William is killed by a wild horse. Though William's death is devastating, it brings the two closer together. Martha chooses to stay with him in Deadwood.\n\nBullock's honest character is instinctively repulsed by Swearengen (and vice versa), but the two form an uneasy alliance and slowly seem to develop a fondness for each other. Together they try to defend the camp against outside interests (e.g., the Hearst mining interests, the territorial government, and Alma Garret's in-laws) who have begun to appear in Deadwood when it begins to show the potential for some degree of wealth. Bullock's fiery temper, however, often clouds his judgment, distancing him from those closest to him. He makes a dangerous enemy of George Hearst because of his determination to stand against Hearst's criminal conduct. This puts him in considerable danger, as Hearst does at one point try to create circumstances in which Bullock might be lured into a lethal ambush.\n\nIn \"Deadwood: The Movie\", Bullock has become a U.S. Marshal. Though he has had three children with Martha and seems to possess a calmer temperament, he is furious when George Hearst returns to town and orders the murder of Bullock's friend Charlie Utter. When Hearst is set upon by a mob furious about Utter's murder, Bullock's dedication to the law nearly falters as he almost allows them to kill Hearst; however, he catches sight of his family and has a change of heart, breaking up the mob and dragging Hearst into a jail cell. Afterwards, he returns home and embraces his wife.\n\nThere are several discrepancies between the historical Seth Bullock and the character in the show. In particular, the historical Bullock's wife, Martha, was not his brother's widow but his childhood sweetheart. In the pilot episode he states he came from Etobicoke, whereas the historical Bullock was born in Amherstburg.\n\nAlbert \"Al\" Swearengen (Ian McShane) is the proprietor of the Gem Saloon. Born in England (unlike the real Al Swearengen, who was born in Iowa Territory of Dutch descent), he lived two years in Australia before being raised in a Chicago orphanage under an abusive figure known as Mrs. Anderson, whom he mentions on occasion ran a brothel behind the girls' orphanage before running the boys' orphanage. Swearengen was among the first settlers of Deadwood, earning him several land claims and a position of considerable power and influence. The Gem Saloon offers alcohol, prostitution, and faro, and also acts as Swearengen's base of operations. He is presumably the most wealthy and influential person in the camp, relied upon to oversee many local affairs and to appoint officials, and he is greatly feared and respected.\n\nCunning and manipulative, Swearengen initially appears to be the most cynically amoral of all the characters, showing no hesitation in resorting to violence and murder when it serves his business interests. When former Montana marshal Seth Bullock comes to camp to sell hardware, his upright, law-abiding manner and strong sense of justice serves as an unintended yet upending threat to Swearengen. They initially butt heads until Swearengen decides to make Bullock the \"face\" of Deadwood and encourages him to pick up the badge again, turning Bullock's respectability to his advantage in securing the future of the camp.\n\nSwearengen's central goal is to retain his own business interests in Deadwood and keep the camp stable and secure in order to get the territory annexed by the United States. As the camp is set upon, first by political interests and then by big capital, Swearengen comes to the realization that the preservation of his own interests depends on collaboration with others in the camp. While his alliances are often pragmatic and self-serving, Swearengen does show great loyalty to allies such as Mr. Wu. He displays an almost paternalistic (though often abusive) affection for his three main henchmen, Dan Dority, Johnny Burns, and Silas Adams. He is also affectionate toward Trixie, one of the prostitutes of the Gem, and is initially deeply offended when she begins a relationship with Sol Star.\n\nThough he is portrayed as a cutthroat criminal, his character is shown to be more complex, motivated by a peculiar type of morality and justice as well as a need to protect the vulnerable even while seeming to disparage them. For example, though he professes to keep the crippled Jewel around in case someone with only nine cents wants a prostitute, Trixie relates that his employment of Jewel is really his \"sick way\" of protecting her. In the Season 1 finale, Swearengen smothers the Reverend Smith, but this was to end his suffering rather than out of ill intent. In Season 3, he murders an agent of George Hearst for shooting at Alma Garret, beating A.W. Merrick, and humiliating Wu. His opposition to both the Pinkertons and Hearst's machinations also demonstrate a character motivated by some degree of morality and the desire to protect the powerless. This is strongly contrasted with his rival Cy Tolliver, who shows little compassion or motivation beyond pure self-interest. Al is thus portrayed as a more heroic character as the series progresses, while Cy remains a villain.\n\nIn \"Deadwood: The Movie\", Swearengen is ailing from liver failure after years of heavy drinking. He gives Trixie away at her wedding to Sol Star and announces his intention to leave Trixie the Gem upon his death. The film ends with his fate left ambiguous; when Trixie returns to the Gem to care for him, she begins to recite the Lord's Prayer — \"Our Father, which art in Heaven\" — to which Swearengen weakly replies, \"Let Him fucking stay there.\"\n\nThe character is based on the real-life Al Swearengen, who owned the Gem Theater in Deadwood. Unlike the character (portrayed by British actor Ian McShane), the historical Al Swearengen was not English and was in fact born in Iowa. McShane won a Golden Globe in 2005 for his portrayal of Swearengen.\n\nAlma Russell Garret (Molly Parker), later Ellsworth, moved to Deadwood with her new husband Brom Garret, who left the high society of New York to experience frontier life and while in Deadwood buys a claim in the gold-rich territory. It is not long before Garret falls afoul of Al Swearengen: after Garret perceives the gold claim he purchased in a deal brokered by Swearengen to be worthless, he threatens the saloon owner with Pinkerton involvement should his money not be returned to him. Garret is promptly murdered on Swearengen's orders, only for the claim to turn out a very rich one. Now, stranded in Deadwood and dealing with attempts by Swearengen to buy the claim back, the 30-year-old widow Garret decides to try her luck on the new frontier rather than sell the claim and return East. She hires Wild Bill Hickok to investigate both the claim and Swearengen's interest. Hickok soon nominates Seth Bullock to assay her gold claim, shortly before Hickok is murdered, which event renders Bullock the sole guardian of Alma's interests. Eventually, Bullock and Alma begin an affair, which is cut short by the arrival of Bullock's wife and stepson, and his and Alma's mutual revulsion at the prospect of marital infidelity. Alma is, however, brokenhearted, jealous, and furious with both Bullock and his wife Martha, although she knows that feeling is irrational. Her mood is not aided by the revelation that she has become pregnant by Bullock.\n\nIn the meantime, Alma fends off not only her own father, who has heard of her newfound wealth and come seeking a share, but also a surreptitious plan by her husband's family to frame her for his murder and thereby take over the claim for themselves. The intense interest of George Hearst's mining empire in her claim also poses future problems. To ensure she is not ridiculed during her pregnancy, Trixie tells Whitney Ellsworth he should propose to Alma. After a period of hesitation, Alma accepts Ellsworth's proposal and marries him the following week in front of several Deadwood citizens and friends. In the early episodes, Alma struggles with an addiction to laudanum, which she overcomes with Trixie's assistance. She also takes Sofia Metz, an orphan girl whose family was murdered, under her wing as a foster daughter.\n\nIn the third season, Alma loses her baby to miscarriage and returns to her laudanum addiction. Seeing her addiction as a sign of her unhappiness, Ellsworth decides they should separate, after which she is able to end her drug habit. She uses the wealth generated by her claim to open Deadwood's first bank but is under increasing pressure to sell the claim to Hearst. She tries to negotiate to sell him a substantial portion of the claim, but he will only accept full ownership. Hearst tries to intimidate her by having one of his men shoot at her in the street, presumably to provoke Ellsworth into being killed in a fight. Swearengen stops this from happening, but Ellsworth is later assassinated by one of Hearst's men. With no alternative other than to flee the camp, Alma reluctantly sells to Hearst.\n\nIn \"Deadwood: The Movie\", Alma returns to Deadwood along with Sofia to oversee her banking interests in the town, having spent some years away. There remains strong romantic tension between her and Bullock, though they decline to act on their passions. Alma defies Hearst when she outbids him for the former land of Charlie Utter.\n\nWhitney Conway Ellsworth (Jim Beaver) is an experienced prospector who has sought gold all over the country, even having once worked as a miner at wage and an overseer on sites owned by the Hearst mining company. Having left his position with the company, disgusted at the nonchalant attitude toward the well-being of its miners, he is introduced in the first season as one of the many individuals who have traveled to Deadwood on the promise of wealth in the gold-rich hills, revealing himself to have a \"dead-eye\" for the color and having successfully managed to eke out a comfortable living in this profession.\n\nEllsworth is a regular of the Gem Saloon, like many of the town's prospectors, and is liked by the Gem's employees, including Trixie and Dan Dority. Early on, he witnesses Brom Garret's murder in the wilderness, but understanding the dangerous nature of their employer, he keeps this fact to himself, lest he meet a similarly unfortunate \"accident\". In return for his silence, Dan Dority does not make known to Swearengen Ellsworth's status as a witness.\n\nAfter being hired by Seth Bullock to manage Alma's claim in order to keep her title active, Ellsworth begins growing an attachment and a strong sense of loyalty toward her and the young orphan Sofia in her care, with whom he begins to form a father-daughter bond. By the second season, Ellsworth has gone from a mere prospector to completely overseeing Alma's claim and the digging operations, as well as a trusted friend and confidant. He defends her claim by chasing off Hearst's geologist, Francis Wolcott, when he comes to spy out the territory — the two having been familiar with one another from Ellsworth's days working for the Hearst company — and advises Alma to stand her ground when rumor is spread in the camp about the future instability of gold claims once the town is annexed. He also seems to grow distanced from the Gem as well, refusing to genuflect in the presence of the likes of Dority as he once did, a sign of his moving away from his older life and his growing self-assurance and confidence. He forms friendships with Joanie Stubbs and Sol Star.\n\nLater, Ellsworth is advised by Trixie to wed Alma, once it is clear she has become pregnant by Sheriff Bullock. Trusting it is the right thing to do and with a genuine wish to help her save face and help raise both Sofia and the future child, he proposes. She demurs at first but soon accepts his proposal and marries him the following week in front of their gathered friends and townspeople.\n\nWhen George Hearst attempts to force Alma to sell him her gold claim, Ellsworth is one of the few in town who stands up to him. But his relationship with Alma falls apart when she miscarries and begins using laudanum again. The final straw comes when she gets high and attempts to consummate their relationship out of obligation. Despite this, they remain friends. Near the end of Season 3, Ellsworth is shot to death by one of Hearst's agents while supervising Alma's claim. His body is brought to camp in the back of a wagon, and many people, especially Alma and Trixie, are shocked and upset by his death.\n\nAs originally written, the character was simply named \"Ellsworth\". When the wedding episode required Ellsworth's full name to be revealed, Jim Beaver, a film historian engaged in writing a biography of TV Superman George Reeves, suggested his character be named after the first producer of \"Adventures of Superman\", Whitney Ellsworth.\n\nDan Dority (W. Earl Brown) is Al Swearengen's right-hand man. A former bushwhacker, he has been with Al for years and serves him as a bodyguard, enforcer, and killer. While violent and short-tempered, Dority is not a heartless killer. In the first season he defies Al with the help of Doc Cochran by helping spirit Sofia Metz out of town instead of killing her, and chooses not to harm Ellsworth even though he knows Ellsworth witnessed his murder of Brom Garret. Many others fall victim to Dan's short temper, though. He is very loyal to Al; when Al is deathly ill at the start of Season 2, Dan tells Trixie that he would have been a good-for-nothing scumbag if he had never met Al.\n\nDan is sometimes jealous of fellow henchman Silas Adams' favor with Al, leading Adams to comment to him, \"Any chance you and me don't end in blood?\" The two have an uneasy alliance, however, and Adams saves Dan from a throat-cutting in the Season 2 finale. Al's choice to use Adams in his negotiations with George Hearst also draws resentment, despite Dan's clear unsuitability for the task.\n\nIn Season 3, Dority is challenged to a fight by Hearst's bodyguard, Captain Turner. He wins, brutally killing Turner in the streets of Deadwood, but is nearly killed himself. The incident leaves him slightly traumatized, now fully realizing his own mortality.\n\nJoanie Stubbs (Kim Dickens) is Cy Tolliver's former madam at the Bella Union. Joanie, unlike Trixie, acts only as the hostess, and not as a prostitute herself. Although she is a lesbian, Stubbs has a long relationship with Cy and is one of the few people Cy genuinely cares for, though his increasingly unpredictable and violent behavior sours their friendship. Often depressed and self-loathing, Joanie was apparently bought by Cy from her own father, who had abused and pimped her and her younger sisters as prostitutes. Joanie also reveals that her father used her to coerce her sisters to sleep with him—to \"see to his needs since mama was gone.\" As a result, the emotionally scarred Joanie is weighed down by guilt.\n\nCy encourages Joanie to spread her wings and form her own brothel, though he often seems reluctant to let her go. She leaves the Bella Union to open the Chez Amis, importing high-class and experienced prostitutes from the East with her friend Maddie. Unfortunately, Maddie has funded the operation with funds from Francis Wolcott, who is violent toward women and has a history of killing prostitutes. When Tolliver discovers this and tries to blackmail Wolcott, Wolcott kills several of the women, including Maddie. Joanie arranges for the surviving prostitutes to be spirited to safety by her loyal friend Charlie Utter, but remains sitting alone in her shuttered place of business with her dreams of independence destroyed. Her spirits are restored by smashing a bourbon bottle on Wolcott's head when he returns to the scene. She also finds comfort in her burgeoning friendship and later romantic attachment to Calamity Jane. Joanie attempts to rebuild her life by making the Chez Amis into a schoolhouse, which also becomes the refuge of Mose Manuel, who recovers there after being shot in the Bella Union.\n\nIn \"Deadwood: The Movie\", Joanie has become the owner of the Bella Union after the implied death of Tolliver. Though Calamity Jane, upon returning to town, finds Joanie in a state of depression, the two gradually rekindle their relationship and find happiness together.\n\nDr. Amos \"Doc\" Cochran (Brad Dourif) is the only doctor in the camp of Deadwood. A veteran of the Civil War, he is an honest and moral professional who shows extreme dedication to and compassion for the sick and injured, without bias for their attitudes or loyalties. Doc Cochran is relatively invulnerable to the risk of violence in Deadwood, as he is valuable to Swearengen and Tolliver for his medical maintenance of the prostitutes, and as a result is unafraid to speak his mind to both of them, as well as many others, whenever their behavior is cold and cruel. He has been charged with grave robbery seven times. When the Reverend Smith is at his last extremity, dying of a brain tumor, Cochran prays for the reverend to be released from suffering, and weeps as he recalls the cries of agony he heard on the battlefield during the Civil War.\n\nWhen Swearengen falls ill in Season 2, Cochran refuses to lose another patient, despite being under so much stress he cannot stop his hands from shaking. In the end, he succeeds in treating Al and his confidence seems to improve again. He constantly displays a moral compass similar to humanist philosophy. When Chinese prostitutes appear in town, Cochran is shocked by the inhumane conditions in which they are kept. Much to his distress, he is barred from treating them and forced to simply stand by and watch them die. In Season 3, he becomes ill and shows symptoms of tuberculosis. Al, however, spurs him on not to just lie down and die, remarking \"I ain't learning a new Doc's 'quirks'.\" As of \"Deadwood: The Movie\", Cochran has survived and continues to treat a now ailing Al.\n\nMartha Eccles Bullock (Anna Gunn) is Seth Bullock's wife and former sister-in-law. Seth's brother Robert had been a cavalryman and died while fighting Comancheros in Texas. Bullock felt obliged to marry and take care of the widow and her son (Seth's nephew), although he is not actually romantically involved with her. Such marriages were a common custom of the time to prevent children from growing up fatherless after the Civil War and Indian Wars. Martha arrives in Deadwood at the beginning of Season 2. She feels a confusing mix of gratitude and duty towards Bullock, perhaps even romantic love for him, but wishes he not sacrifice his own happiness any more than necessary to provide for her and her son. Even so, she still harbors a great deal of jealousy towards her husband's former relationship with and persistent feelings for Alma Garret, though she is perplexed by his reluctance to act on them. Martha is devastated by the death of her son William. The grief, however, brings her and Seth closer together and they continue to live together in Deadwood. She later becomes the teacher of the camp's children. As of \"Deadwood: The Movie\", she and Seth remain happily married and have three children.\n\nThe real-life Marguerite \"Martha\" Bullock was not the widow of Seth Bullock's brother, but had married Bullock prior to coming to Deadwood.\n\nSolomon \"Sol\" Star (John Hawkes) is Seth Bullock's best friend and partner in the hardware business and the only Jewish resident of the camp. He is originally from Vienna, Austria. Imperturbable, reliable, and sensible, Sol becomes a rising force in the camp; originally seeing the potential wealth in providing tools to the prospectors in Deadwood, the second season sees Sol set his sights on forming the first bank in Deadwood in partnership with Alma Garret. Though mocked by Swearengen at every turn for his being Jewish, particularly during the initial phase of buying the future site of the Bullock and Star hardware store from the saloon owner, Sol never rises to the bait, showing not only his business acumen but his levelheadedness as opposed to his friend's occasionally rash nature. Though he seems meek in nature, he proves to be capable of standing up for himself when provoked.\n\nSol also forms a relationship with Trixie, Swearengen's favored girl at The Gem. She helps nurse him back to health from a bullet wound sustained as a bystander to the fight between Swearengen and Bullock in Season 2, but Sol becomes frustrated at the fondness and loyalty she still retains for Swearengen. By the third season, Star has become such a respectable figure of the camp that he runs for mayor against E. B. Farnum. Knowing he will win, Swearengen connives to sell Star a house and has Trixie housed in the hotel next door where she can enter his room through a secret passage in the wall, to make their relationship less of an open secret and make Star appear a more respectable candidate. In \"Deadwood: The Movie\", Sol and Seth have entered into the hotel business, while he and Trixie are expecting their first child. After their son is born, the two are married in a joyful ceremony.\n\nA. Walter \"A. W.\" Merrick (Jeffrey Jones) is the proprietor of the local newspaper, the \"Black Hills Pioneer\". Somewhat pretentious in his bearing, he prides himself as a newspaperman with a duty to print the truth, but must navigate a twisty path of remaining friends with all the major players in town and being privy to their plans and confidences. He gains the friendship of Seth Bullock, Sol Star, and Charlie Utter, and even suggests that since he enjoys walking and socializing with them about the local goings on that they should form a club for doing just that.\n\nThough not a man of great courage, Merrick is a man of principle. He refuses to print Commissioner Jarry's notice which puts claims in the camp under doubt, and as a result comes under attack from Tolliver, who sends Leon and Stapleton to trash his press. After this, Swearengen makes Merrick his ally and conspires with him to print articles in the paper to draw back his control and bring elections to the camp. Merrick comes under attack again in Season 3 when he publishes a letter designed to embarrass Hearst. Hearst has him beaten up as a result, and Merrick is injured to the point where he cannot put on his clothes by himself. He is also one of the few people Al really seems to like, as he even kills the one responsible for Merrick's beating.\n\nTrixie (Paula Malcomson) is Al Swearengen's favorite girl at the Gem. Swearengen is often abusive toward her, but she always returns to him and he in turn often shows great affection for her, though not openly.\n\nDespite her rather frank and foul-mouthed nature, she is one of the more compassionate members of the camp. When she is nursing Alma and Sofia, she helps Alma kick her dope habit against the wishes of Swearengen. She attempts suicide afterward believing Al will kill her for going against his wishes. Despite her insubordination, Swearengen is most angry because of this attempt to kill herself. She seems not to know her last name, as she asks a receipt to be made to \"Trixie the whore\" when she makes a deposit at the Deadwood bank.\n\nIn an effort to get out from under Al, Trixie acknowledges Sol Star's affection toward her. At first she is reluctant to foster a romantic relationship on account of being a prostitute, but as she spends more time away from the Gem, she grows closer to Star, who teaches her accounting. While initially Swearengen comes between Star and Trixie, he later releases Trixie back to a sort of apprenticeship at the hardware store.\n\nThe relationship between Trixie and Star is rekindled when she nurses him back to health after he is shot and with whom she eventually finds employment and romance, but she remains devoted to Swearengen and reports back to him on Star's and Bullock's activities and disguising her true feelings for Star. She also uses her accounting skills for a short time working as a clerk at the bank. It is implied Al is in love with her and spurs her later on to have a better quality of life than he could provide for her. He verbally attacks Trixie when she casually mentions she would \"like to turn a fuckin' trick\" long after she has stopped working as a prostitute, chastising her for not realizing \"when her lot's improved.\"\n\nTrixie is friends with Ellsworth, who shows her kindness. Devastated on learning he has been killed, she marches to the Grand Hotel to kill Hearst, with her top undone and skirt lifted to take attention away from her face. She shoots him in the shoulder but does not kill him, and Hearst wants her killed in retaliation. Al will not allow it and instead kills another prostitute, Jen, who resembles her, to placate Hearst.\n\nA decade later, in \"Deadwood: The Movie\", Trixie is pregnant with Sol Star's son and continues to harbor guilt over Jen's death. Upon Hearst's return to town, she furiously insults him from her balcony, causing him to realize he had been deceived by Al years earlier. She gives birth shortly afterward, and subsequently agrees to marry Sol. When Hearst attempts to have Trixie arrested during the wedding celebrations, Bullock and the town marshal their resources to protect her. The film ends with Trixie at the Gem Saloon, which an ailing Swearengen has chosen to leave her upon his death.\n\nThe character is not based on a single real-life person. The scene of her putting a bullet through the skull of a violent client who astounds all by clinging to life for another half hour is based on an actual report by John S. McClintock of such an occurrence involving a prostitute at the Gem Theater named \"Tricksie.\" This includes the detail of the doctor inserting a probe through the hole in the man's skull.\n\nThomas \"Tom\" Nuttall (Leon Rippy) is proprietor of the No. 10 Saloon, which is the site of Wild Bill Hickok's murder. (The saloon is named for its address on the camp's main thoroughfare.) One of the first settlers to arrive in Deadwood, arriving before even Swearengen, he has grown increasingly disillusioned with the camp and its future and has gone as far as to consider selling his saloon and leaving the camp.\n\nTowards the end of Season 1, he convinces Swearengen to set up his saloon's card dealer, Con Stapleton, as the camp's first sheriff, but renounces him when Stapleton falls under Cy Tolliver's corrupting influence and is physically stripped of his badge by Bullock. In Season 2 he receives the first bicycle in camp, which he defends against ridicule by accepting a challenge to ride through the town over difficult terrain. He forms a brief friendship with William Bullock. After a spooked horse tramples William, Tom feels a great deal of remorse due to William having been placed by his mother into Tom's care in order for William to watch the bicycle ride.\n\nSwearengen, having acquired a dead Native American chief's head, muses to it about Tom's violent past, saying he'd \"sent many of your friends to the happy hunting ground. Formidable, Tom was. And no more fool now than time shows us all.\" In Season 3 he expresses interest in co-founding a Deadwood fire brigade with his barman, Harry Manning, who is standing for Sheriff. Nuttall plays the spoons.\n\nThe Nuttall character is based on a real-life person named William \"Billy\" Nuttall, co-owner of the real-life #10 Saloon in the Deadwood camp.\n\nEustace Bailey \"E. B.\" Farnum (William Sanderson) is the proprietor of the Grand Central Hotel and self-appointed mayor of the town, a role he inhabits with comic opera buffoonish seriousness. He is totally controlled by Swearengen, although he harbors delusions of potential grandeur for himself. He is incredibly greedy — costing Al the chance to buy Alma Garret's claim due to his low offers — and continually asks prying questions to people around town, leading to numerous abuses and threats directed towards him. He was the agent in helping establish the Bella Union in town, although Al chooses to let him live as an informant.\n\nHe is disliked and insulted by most members of the camp and is beaten by Sheriff Bullock at one point when he believes that Farnum has betrayed information of his relationship with Alma to George Hearst. Hearst soon buys the Grand Central from Farnum, offering him $100,000 and position as manager. This distances him from Swearengen's operations and makes him an isolated figure.\n\nHis one and only confidant is his servant, Richardson, whom he scolds and insults on many occasions, but as Season 3 progresses even he is distanced from him as Richardson becomes friends with Hearst's cook, Aunt Lou. Hearst's attitude towards him drives him to the brink and Farnum finally tries to stand up to him and return to Al's good graces. In the \"Deadwood\" film, Farnum remains mayor and hotelier, using his tendency to pry and eavesdrop for good on one occasion, when he warns Seth Bullock that Samuel Fields' life is in danger.\n\nJane Canary (Robin Weigert), a frontierswoman and former scout for General George Armstrong Custer, first arrived in Deadwood with Wild Bill Hickok and Charlie Utter. She idolizes Hickok, is friends with Utter (albeit grudgingly), and forges a friendship with Doc Cochran, after their joint efforts in protecting Sofia Metz and the doctor's enlistment of her aid in fighting a smallpox epidemic.\n\nKnown for her hard drinking and swearing, Jane is truculent and abrasive upon first impression, but her character has a loopy humor and an upright moral center that grows on people in the camp, and she is deeply compassionate to the ill and helpless. After Hickok's murder, she sinks into severe depression and alcoholism. At the end of Season 1, she leaves camp, telling Utter that she cannot bear to be a drunk in the place where Hickok is buried. Utter is seen voicing \"grave doubts\" about Jane's future to Hickok's grave.\n\nDespite a constant tough front, she is often overcome with fear when confronted with violence (such as with Tolliver and Swearengen). Despite offering little of her own history, she mentions to Charlie Utter after she has been confronted by Al that she had not been that scared since she was a child, possibly implying that men like Cy and Al remind her of her own father. She finds happiness in her relationship with Joanie Stubbs, who invites Jane to live with her and helps her through her depression; the two eventually begin a romantic liaison. In \"Deadwood: The Movie\", Jane returns to town after years away. After initial friction between her and Joanie, they begin to rekindle their relationship, and both are deeply affected by Charlie Utter's passing. At the end of the film, Jane overcomes her fears and kills Harry Manning in order to save Seth Bullock from a gunshot to the back. Though she insists that Wild Bill Hickok's spirit came into her at that moment, Joanie assures her that she alone was responsible for that moment of heroism.\n\nThough never referred to as \"Calamity Jane\" in the original series, the origin of her nickname is implied by Andy Cramed, a smallpox victim left to die in the woods by Cy Tolliver, whom she helped nurse back to health. Upon his recovery, he tells her \"Hereafter in calamity, I'll be sure to call for Jane.\"\n\nCharles \"Charlie\" Utter (Dayton Callie) is the good friend of Hickok and Jane, and Hickok's sometime business partner. He runs a mail and freight business in the camp and is also one of Bullock's deputies. He is an honest and uncomfortable person with a kind and generous nature. Incredibly noble, he is also tough and fearless in the face of adversity and not afraid to speak his mind clearly.\n\nHe is friends with Joanie Stubbs and is approached by her in desperation upon the murders of three of her prostitutes by Wolcott, smuggling the rest out of town to safety. Sworn to secrecy about the matter, Utter nevertheless takes the opportunity to administer a terrible beating to Wolcott on the pretext of Wolcott's having stepped on Utter's toe. Later, though, Charlie displays some pity for the man.\n\nHe continues to have an up and down relationship with Jane as she continues to decline into alcoholism, despite the abuse she gives him; he constantly looks out for her, spurring her on to take a job at his freight business and to start a friendship with Joanie Stubbs. He displays his fearlessness again in Season 3 when he harasses Hearst in his cell after he is arrested by Bullock, trivializing the man's authority in the camp. He later threatens his life at the door of his hotel room.\n\nIn \"Deadwood: The Movie\", Utter considers selling a plot of land he has developed over many years to George Hearst. When he ultimately declines to sell, Hearst has him murdered, causing no end of anger and grief from his friends and fellow townspeople. Samuel Fields, the only witness to Utter's death, later tells Bullock that Utter was singing and at peace at the moment of his death.\n\nThe character is based on the real-life person \"Colorado\" Charlie Utter, a member of Wild Bill Hickok's entourage. However, the nickname \"Colorado Charlie\" is never used for the character on the show.\n\nCyrus \"Cy\" Tolliver (Powers Boothe) is the owner of the upscale Bella Union saloon and Al Swearengen's main rival. Cy has an 18-year relationship with former prostitute and madam Joanie Stubbs, who later leaves the Bella Union to form her own brothel, leaving a mix of friendship and anger between them. Cy is clearly in love with Joanie and is bitter not to have his feelings reciprocated. Ruthless and with a veneer of class and polish, Cy soon proves that while he may lack his rival's skill in cunning duplicity he makes it up in ambition, becoming temporarily allied with the Hearst combine in Season 2. He also becomes partners with Mr. Lee, the newly arrived Tong leader from San Francisco, in \"Celestial’s Alley\", an area of low-priced gambling and Chinese prostitution that sees women placed in unspeakably horrid conditions, a fact Cy dismisses as a mere \"cultural difference.\" However, he does accept Doc Cochran's offer to treat them for free, as a condition of Cochran's continuing to treat Tolliver's white prostitutes. As Season 2 climaxes, Swearengen ends up on top, leaving Cy Tolliver in a weakened position with both Francis Wolcott and Mr. Lee dead and Cy receiving a knife to the stomach courtesy of Andy Cramed, after attempting to coerce him into ending his ministerial activities.\n\nTolliver survives but becomes increasingly desperate and unstable. Though he clearly despises Tolliver, Hearst employs him to act as his agent, but Tolliver finds Hearst difficult to work with. When he hands Hearst an advantage, having discovered that Leon is dealing dope to Alma, Hearst rants angrily that he should have told him sooner. When Hearst leaves camp, he puts Tolliver in charge of his \"other-than-mining interests,\" as Cy snidely puts it, making him angry at Hearst for all but eliminating their business together. Soon afterwards, Tolliver exits to the Bella Union balcony accompanied by Leon and a prostitute. He stabs Leon and tells him he's stupid for congratulating him on his remaining business with Hearst. In his anger he points a gun at Hearst's coach as it readies to leave the camp, but does not shoot him. Instead he presses the gun to the prostitute's forehead, before regaining his calm and returning inside. Tolliver is said to have died sometime before \"Deadwood: The Movie\" (reflecting the death of Powers Boothe in 2017), and has left the Bella Union to Joanie Stubbs.\n\nJames Butler \"Wild Bill\" Hickok (Keith Carradine) has a reputation as one of the fastest gunslingers around. He arrives in Deadwood as a weary man who seems determined to let his compulsive drinking and gambling take over. With him are his friend, Charlie Utter, and devotee, Calamity Jane. He has apparently come to prospect but despite Charlie Utter's attempts to persuade him to do so, he shows no interest and scolds Charlie for not leaving him be. He becomes friends with Bullock after they save Sofia and shoot down one of her attackers.\n\nCharlie thinks Bullock will have a positive effect on Bill, and works to bring the two together before Bill's death.\n\nHe becomes involved with Alma's affair, first by turning down her husband's request to help him get money back from Al Swearengen after he has been tricked into buying a dry claim. He represents Alma when Brom is killed and enlists Bullock to help him find a prospector to look at the claim.\n\nWild Bill frequents Tom Nuttal's No. 10 Saloon, as opposed to the Gem or the Bella Union, at one point explaining to Al Swearengen \"you don't have poker\" when asked why he doesn't visit the Gem more often. Eventually, Nuttal begins fronting cash to Bill in order to keep the legendary lawman as a regular of his establishment, which Nuttal believes is good for business. When Bill's fortunes at the card table take a turn for the better, he runs afoul of Jack McCall after winning all of his money. McCall angrily insults Wild Bill, and in response, Bill slides him a one-dollar chip telling him to go buy some breakfast. Seething over the perceived insult, McCall later returns to the No. 10 where Bill is uncharacteristically sitting with his back to the door (instead of to the wall, as is his wont). McCall approaches Hickok from behind and shoots him in the head at point-blank range, killing him instantly.\n\nJohn \"Johnny\" Burns (Sean Bridgers) is an employee of the Gem Saloon and one of Al's lackeys. His main jobs are tending bar, cleaning, and hauling corpses to Wu's pigsty. Although young and ambitious, Johnny is not too bright, leading Al to continually abuse him verbally and physically. He shoots Charlie Utter and Sol Star in season 2 but does not kill them, and expresses severe remorse, unlike Adams and Dority. Though Johnny is very loyal to Al, he refuses to kill the prostitute Jen whom Al is trying to trick Hearst into thinking is Trixie. Johnny tries but can't put himself up to the deed, and tells Al he won't do it. Therefore, Dan knocks him out and ties him up while Al carries out his plan. Later Dan frees him, and Johnny asks Al if Jen suffered. Al says he tried to do it as painlessly as possible. When Johnny leaves the room, Al adds the comment, \"Wants me to tell him something pretty.\" In \"Deadwood: The Movie\", Burns remains affected by Jen's death, but forms a new relationship with a recent arrival to Al's saloon, Caroline Woolgarden.\n\nAlthough Johnny is portrayed as very stupid, he shows forms of intelligence. For example, he can read and teach it to others, and later in the series, he shows understanding of Wu's drawings and pidgin English when even Al cannot make out the meaning.\n\nSilas Adams (Titus Welliver), also known as \"the bagman from Yankton\", comes to camp to collect bribe money for Magistrate Clagget. Swearengen hires Adams to join his operation, as he is smarter than Al's other lackeys, paying him to slice Clagget's throat for extorting money from Swearengen. Adams serves Swearengen as his contact in Yankton to bring him news of the territorial changes. Al also relies on Adams' legal counsel when dealing with Commissioner Jarry and his election proposals. Adams also serves as middleman between Swearengen and George Hearst.\n\nAdams has a brief, ill-fated romance with Miss Isringhausen, who turns out to be a Pinkerton agent. He is a rival of Dan Dority's for Swearengen's favor, although Adams saves Dan's life from a Chinese knife-wielder in the season 2 finale, and the two form a tenuous alliance.\n\nSofia Metz (Bree Seanna Wall; Lily Keene in the ) is the sole survivor of an attack on her family on the way home to her native Minnesota. She and her family are members of the Norwegian community in Minnesota, and are referred to as \"squareheads\" by Swearengen, a slur against Scandinavians. Unknown to Swearengen, a robbery by men who often work for him is disguised as an attack by hostile Indians, and leaves Sofia traumatized and unresponsive. With her parents and two sisters (Marta and Ingrid) murdered, yet possibly unable to speak English, she is nevertheless targeted for murder by Swearengen to eliminate the possibility of her identifying her family's killers; however, with the help and protection of Jane Canary and Doc Cochran, she regains her health and becomes the ward of Alma Garret. She grows especially close to Whitney Ellsworth after his business dealings with and later marriage to Garret, and is instrumental in convincing Garret that they should stay in Deadwood so that they can continue to visit his final resting place. She and Alma later return to Deadwood after many years away to attend the statehood celebrations.\n\nMr. Wu (Keone Young) is the official or unofficial leader of Deadwood's substantial but mostly unseen Chinese (\"Celestials\") population, the Asian counterpart to Swearengen. He routinely interacts with Swearengen and other Caucasians over a few matters of business, such as the opium trade, and the seemingly daily efficient disposal of numerous human remains, through the route of his pigs. He knows almost no English beyond the words \"San Francisco,\" \"cocksucker,\" and \"Hearst.\" He however communicates effectively with Swearengen (whom he refers to as \"Swedgin!\") with the aid of charcoal drawings and hand signals. Nonetheless, Swearengen considers his shaking hand signals and lack of eye contact to be disturbing.\n\nIn Season 2, he becomes highly anxious over the arrival in town of the much more polished Mr. Lee from San Francisco, who appears to be the local representative of a large and shadowy tong organization allied with George Hearst, which henceforward supplies Deadwood with opium and low-priced Chinese prostitutes, from a new establishment to be called \"Celestials' Alley\", in partnership with Tolliver.\n\nIn the second season's final episode, Wu strikes back with the blessing of Hearst and Swearengen, slitting Lee's throat and leading Swearengen's crew to kill Lee's men. Swearengen strikes a deal for Wu to take over Lee's position of finding laborers for Hearst's mining operation, easily supplanting Tolliver in running Chinese affairs. In a symbol of loyalty to Swearengen, Wu slices off his braid (an action punishable by death in China at the time) and declares he will remain in America forever.\n\nIn Season 3, he returns from business in San Francisco wearing Western dress (which, as multiple characters remark, he looks terrible in). Wu had been tasked by Al with recruiting Chinese laborers in San Francisco to work in Hearst's mines. Sensing that Swearengen and Hearst have become bitter rivals, he holds the workers in another town rather than bring them to Deadwood. In the series finale he brings his men into town in case the dealings with George Hearst take a turn for the worse. In \"Deadwood: The Movie\", Wu vigilantly monitors Al's declining health with the help of his grandson Mengyao.\n\nThe character can be loosely based on Wong Fee Lee, the owner of several Chinatown businesses and properties including the Wing Tsue bazaar.\n\nBlazanov (Pasha D. Lychnikoff) is Deadwood's telegraph operator and a Russian immigrant. He feels a scrupulous dedication to his responsibility to not reveal the private information that he translates and delivers, resisting both Dority's attempts to intimidate him and Farnum's attempts to bribe him into revealing private information. Later, he makes exceptions to the rules as he sees the danger Hearst poses to Deadwood. At one point, he discusses how his parents had sacrificed financially to send him to school, and how they were subsequently murdered by thugs comparable to Hearst's goons. Blazanov's telegraph office is located in the newspaper office of A.W. Merrick, and the two appear to become close friends.\n\nLeon (Larry Cedar), Cy Tolliver's chief informant and lackey, is addicted to opium. Formerly employed as a double agent to give Swearengen false information, he and the dope fiend Jimmy Irons rob and murder Mr. Wu's opium courier, leading to Jimmy being fed to Wu's pigs. Leon works to incite anti-Chinese sentiment in the camp following this event, though more out of fear of Cy than anything else, and now serves as Tolliver's eyes around town. He begins to deal dope to Alma Garret in Season 3 and Tolliver finds out. Afraid that he will be implicated in any attempt to murder Alma, he stops dealing to her soon after. He was meant to be a great card sharp before he became an opium addict, according to Cy.\n\nIn the final episode of Season 3, Cy Tolliver, in a fit of frustration over Hearst's treatment of him, stabs Leon in the leg. The knife cuts through his femoral artery, and Leon soon bleeds to death on Tolliver's balcony. Dazed from blood loss in his dying moments, Leon still tries to compliment Cy, leading Tolliver to comment, \"If those were your last words, tell the Lord you died stupid.\"\n\nCon Stapleton (Peter Jason) starts out as the dim-witted card dealer at the No. 10 saloon. He can be easily distinguished by his large, bright-colored and ill-fitting hat, which he is never seen without. Stapleton is briefly installed as sheriff when the No. 10's owner, Tom Nuttall, begins to fear that the camp is \"leaving him behind\" and asks Al Swearengen to set up his employee in a position of power.\n\nHowever, Stapleton quickly lets himself be bribed by Tolliver to stir up anti-Chinese sentiment. After murdering a Chinese resident of the camp without justification, he is stripped of his badge by an enraged Bullock. While Nuttall renounces him following the incident, Stapleton has remained in Tolliver's employ, often working with Leon, doing odd jobs such as security at the Bella Union and trashing Merrick's printing press. He is later seduced by one of Jack Langrishe's theatre troupe. As of \"Deadwood: The Movie\", he has become a reverend.\n\nJewel (Geri Jewell) is the disabled cleaning woman at the Gem Saloon. Jewel often uses her job in the Gem to \"overhear\" what is really going on. Coffee and most of the meals from the Gem kitchen are prepared by her. Al makes a public show of barely tolerating her, often publicly referring to her as \"the gimp\" or complaining about her noisily dragging her stiff leg. Jewel responds with a cheerful, mocking disrespect Al would tolerate from no one else. When Al is briefly disabled after a minor stroke, Jewel comments, \"He's always dragging that fucking leg!\" Despite Jewel's apparent dismissal of Al's comments, she takes it upon herself to enlist the town doctor to make her a leg brace to ease her own movement, as well as Al's loud constant complaining.\n\nTrixie, defending Swearengen to Calamity Jane, cites Jewel as an example of Al's kindness, which he publicly downplays. Al maintains that he only keeps Jewel around in case a customer \"only has nine cents\" (i.e., can't afford the usual price of a Gem prostitute), but Trixie calls this \"his sick ... way of protecting her\" implying he may simply be fond of her, as she is seen exclusively cooking and cleaning. It is also hinted Al pays her to do this. At one point Al remarks that he first met Jewel in a Chicago orphanage, suggesting that their relationship is akin to that of brother and sister. Jewel is also shown to be quite strong and dependable, taking charge when Al is ill and locked in his office and ordering Dan to break the door down when the others are afraid to approach.\n\nShe is played by Geri Jewell, who is affected by cerebral palsy.\n\nRichardson (Ralph Richeson) is an unkempt, seemingly simple-minded employee at the Grand Central Hotel whose duties include cleaning and cooking. He rarely speaks and is quite inarticulate on the occasions that he does, in sharp contrast to his talkative employer, E. B. Farnum. Richardson has a strange fixation with an old deer's antler given to him absentmindedly by Alma (whom he tells \"I like you. You're purdy\"). He clings to the antler when frightened, carries it when sent by Farnum on an errand, and sometimes raises it to a pair of larger antlers in prayer.\n\nFarnum detests Richardson, regards him as mentally feeble, and frequently chastises him, sometimes comparing him to a frog or grotesque beast, or calling him egg-hatched; yet, ironically, Richardson is the only person in whom Farnum can totally confide. Late in the show's run, some indications are given that Richardson is not the completely uneducated idiot he seems: he is seen reading a newspaper in private, and reveals himself as an adept juggler at the newly opened theater's amateur night. In Season 3, his job as the Grand Central Hotel's cook is taken over by Aunt Lou, though Richardson continues as her assistant.\n\nThough originally hired as an extra, Richardson was added as a main character after producer David Milch and the writers found they liked his eccentric performance in early scenes. The role marked Ralph Richeson's first on-screen speaking credit as an actor.\n\nArnette Hostetler (Richard Gant) runs the livery stable. Hostetler is, by default, the primary source of company for Samuel Fields, by virtue of being the only other black man in camp, which leads to much friction between their conflicting personalities. When Fields becomes an unwitting victim of an angry mob led by a hooligan named Steve Fields seeking to take out their frustration at the possibility of being bilked out of their claims, Hostetler provides brief shelter to him, and then immediately betrays him when faced with threat of violence. Fields, for his part, never blames him for this, saying \"I'd have done the same thing, only quicker.\"\n\nHe is forced to later flee the camp when a horse brought to him by Samuel tramples William Bullock to death. They later bring the horse back to camp in attempt to seek forgiveness from Bullock. In their absence, Steve has taken over the Livery. Bullock is forced to broker a deal between the two and Hostetler agrees to sell Steve the livery and leave camp. But Steve continually insults and verbally abuses Hostetler throughout the transaction. He finally pushes him over the brink and Hostetler shoots himself in the head, something he attempted once before in earlier appearances, having been driven \"crazy with pride,\" according to Samuel Fields.\n\nSteve \"the Drunk\" Fields (Michael Harney) is one of the camp's many drunks as well as being a notorious loudmouth and scathing racist. He is a continual nuisance at Tom Nuttall's No. 10 Saloon. Steve Fields leads a lynch mob against Commissioner Jarry in Season 2. After failing to get Jarry, he proceeds to lead the mob against \"Nigger General\" Samuel Fields. Bullock disperses the lynch mob, and later threatens and beats Steve on account of his behavior. Steve, seeking revenge, secretly masturbates onto Bullock's horse. He is caught by Hostetler, who plans on killing him, but Samuel walks in on the two and persuades Hostetler to let Steve live, providing he recognizes all men are God's children, and signs a board admitting that he abused Bullock's horse.\n\nSteve later hurts his back as a wild horse tramples him and William Bullock. When Hostetler leaves town to capture the wild horse which escaped while under his care, Steve takes over the livery, but hostilities continue when Hostetler returns. Bullock negotiates the sale of the livery to Steve. After the deal is complete, Steve demands the board he signed back from Hostetler. He continues to verbally abuse Hostetler as they are searching for the board. The board is found, but the writing, having been in chalk, has become illegible. Steve calls Hostetler a liar, and his verbal abuse drives Hostetler, already grieved over the death of William, to kill himself with his gun. The next day, Steve plans to remove one of the horseshoes from Samuel's horse, so that he might have time to persuade him to stay in his employ at the livery. However, Samuel finds Steve bloodied and stupefied, apparently kicked in the head by the horse. Samuel delays his own plans to leave, and reluctantly cares for Steve.\n\nThe \"Nigger General\" Samuel Fields (Franklyn Ajaye), loosely based on the historical Samuel Fields, is first befriended by Calamity Jane. He is nearly lynched during mob violence led by the drunk Steve Fields. Later, Steve is caught by Hostetler during a sexual act on the sheriff's horse's leg. Samuel walks in on Hostetler planning to kill Steve, but persuades him to blackmail Steve by signing a confession on a blackboard.\n\nNear the end of Season 2, a wild horse, which Samuel and Hostetler are attempting to geld, escapes from their care and tramples William Bullock, the son of Martha Bullock. Samuel stops Hostetler from committing suicide over the incident, and instead the both of them ride out of town to capture the escaped horse. When they return, Samuel and Hostetler plan to start a livery in Oregon, but Steve drives Hostetler to suicide with his racial taunts and epithets. Fields plans to leave town, but he is held up by his promise to help Aunt Lou persuade her son to leave. Later, Steve offers him a job at the livery, all the while verbally abusing him. Samuel refuses, and when he returns to the livery to depart with his horse, he discovers that Steve has been paralyzed by a blow to the head. Samuel takes up Steve's care, at first delighted for being able to mock him back, but soon he changes his conduct and takes good care of him. He lingers in camp looking after the horses and Steve, pushing him around in a wheelbarrow, paying for his care, and addressing him in a friendly manner. He attempts to leave the camp many times, but finds fate intervening whenever he is about to leave.\n\nIn \"Deadwood: The Movie\", Samuel's tendency to fish on Charlie Utter's land leads him to witness Utter's murder, and he is nearly lynched by Utter's killers before being saved by Bullock. As he recuperates, he assures Bullock that Utter was at peace when he died, and the two hold hands.\n\nReverend Henry Weston Smith (Ray McKinnon) is a kind Christian minister who, among other tasks, leads the funerals of many of the individuals who die in the course of the first season. Smith was a field nurse in the Civil War, serving at Shiloh and 2nd Manassas, until he received a \"sign from God.\" He subsequently left his wife and children and became a reverend in Deadwood.\n\nWhen the plague arrives in camp Smith assists Calamity Jane and Doc Cochran in the \"pest tent\" (quarantine section). Over the course of the first season, Smith suffers from a brain tumor that gradually causes his mental and physical collapse. He starts hallucinating, and at one point doubts if Star and Bullock are his friends or just demons disguised as his friends. As his condition deteriorates he suffers memory lapses and headaches, later becoming bedridden and housed at the prostitutes' quarters in The Gem, before Al takes his life in an act of mercy. Dan Dority and Johnny Burns watch as Al closes the reverend's eyes after saying, \"You can go now, brother.\"\n\nFrancis Wolcott (Garret Dillahunt), the chief geologist for wealthy San Francisco mining magnate George Hearst, has arrived in camp in order to ascertain whether any of the claims might be of value to the Hearst empire, and if so, to set about acquiring them by any means necessary. He enlists Cy Tolliver to operate as the front for his operation.\n\nHe has a sexually violent attitude towards women and has murdered prostitutes. He seems unable to control these impulses and struggles to explain them. Wolcott's violent appetite emerges in camp when he kills three prostitutes, including Joanie's friend Maddie, at the Chez Amis. Tolliver disposes of the bodies and covers for Wolcott. When Tolliver sees his operations with Wolcott have failed to bring him standing with Hearst, he tells Hearst about Wolcott's activities. Hearst dismisses Wolcott from his organization. Wolcott hangs himself from the balcony of the Grand Hotel shortly thereafter.\n\nIn the commentary for \"New Money\", David Milch revealed Wolcott was likely sexually abused as a youth, most likely by his mother, which Joanie immediately picks up on, as does he of her own incestuous relationships.\n\nGeorge Hearst (Gerald McRaney) is a wealthy mining magnate and later U.S. Senator who first made his fortune on the Comstock, Utah Territory. His employee Francis Wolcott acts on his behalf in attempts to acquire gold claims for him in Deadwood throughout season 2, in less than honest ways.\n\nIn the season 2 finale, Hearst makes several arrangements with figures in the camp, such as purchasing the Grand Central from Farnum, although Hearst gives no indication of the psychopathic behavior he would exhibit in season 3. Although an avowed misanthrope (as revealed in season 3), he acknowledges the necessities of social propriety by firing Wolcott for cutting the throats of three prostitutes. Tolliver attempts to blackmail Hearst for a 5% commission by claiming he possesses a letter containing Wolcott's admission to the murders. Hearst allows Wu to take over Chinese arrangements from Lee when he learns Lee is burning the bodies of dead prostitutes.\n\nIn season 3, Hearst remains in Deadwood — personally overseeing his interests in the camp, including his attempt to possess the Garret claim and suppressing attempts by his miners to organize and form unions. Obsessed with \"the color,\" Hearst's ultimate goal is total control of Deadwood, or to have it destroyed if he cannot consolidate his power over the camp. To this end he murders several of his own miners when they attempt to form a union and is determined to have control over the Garret claim. He hires Pinkertons to come to the camp and actively stir up trouble. He tries to provoke Ellsworth to violence by shooting at Alma in the street, as a pretext to have Ellsworth killed. When this fails, Hearst has Ellsworth assassinated in his tent on Alma's claim. Trixie shoots Hearst in retaliation but the bullet goes into his shoulder and does not kill him.\n\nAlma is forced into selling the claim to Hearst, and he decides to leave the camp shortly afterward. He is fooled by Al one last time when Al kills a prostitute resembling Trixie to save Trixie from death. Hearst leaves camp, charging Tolliver with his \"other-than-mining interests,\" as said by Tolliver with disdain.\n\nIn \"Deadwood: The Movie\", Hearst, now a Senator from California, returns to town for statehood celebrations. His attempt to buy Charlie Utter's land in order to set up telephone poles fails, and he has Utter murdered. Much of the town reacts with anger, and Alma outbids him for the land at a later auction. Hearst also discovers Al's previous deception and attempts to have Trixie arrested, but Bullock instead takes him into custody for Utter's death. Hearst is nearly killed by a furious mob before Bullock saves him and drags him into a jail cell.\n\nWilliam Bullock (Josh Eriksson) is Seth Bullock's nephew turned stepson. He is very polite and is respectful towards those with authority. William shows much respect towards his stepfather and admires his accomplishments. His first sight of Deadwood is when his stagecoach rolls to a stop next to the sight of his stepfather and Swearengen in a deadly serious brawl, which had just propelled them off the second floor balcony onto the street, punctuated by partisan onlookers taking shots at each other. Swearengen is about to stab Seth Bullock with a knife, which he had produced from hiding, but when he sees the boy, he pauses and raises his bloody head to grin demonically at the passengers and bellow \"Welcome to fucking Deadwood! Can be combative!\" One day while playing with Tom Nuttall on Tom's new bicycle, shortly after dismounting from the bike, young William is trampled and killed by Samuel Fields' horse after it escapes an attempted gelding.\n\nJohn \"Jack\" Langrishe (Brian Cox) is a theater operator and leader of a troupe of traveling actors who come to settle in Deadwood long-term early in the third season. In Deadwood, which lacks any but the lowest forms of entertainment, he seeks both financial opportunity and a chance to bring art and culture to the town. He is a close, longtime friend of Al Swearengen. Langrishe's accent and name hint at Irish origins.\n\nPossessing a dry wit, and prone to both flattery and self-deprecation, the flamboyant Langrishe charms most of the people he meets, including Martha, Alma, and Merrick. Scouting a location for his theater, he decides that Joanie's former brothel, the Chez Amis, now being used as a schoolhouse, would be perfect if redecorated. He makes her a generous offer to sell the building to him, and she accepts, on the condition that Langrishe have a new schoolhouse built at his own expense, something he happily agrees with. The theater opens some days later in the renovated Chez Amis, with a very successful amateur night.\n\nAl keeps Langrishe aware of the machinations between himself and Hearst. Langrishe discovers that Hearst suffers from back pain, and talks him into trying out a new form of treatment, administered by Langrishe himself in the form of pulls, prods, and thrusts. Later, he suggests to an interested Al the possibility of using these time-consuming but useless back treatments as a way of occupying Hearst's time.\n\nLangrishe is based on the historical theater owner Jack Langrishe.\n\nJack McCall (Garret Dillahunt) is a drunkard who shoots Hickok in the back of the head as he plays poker. McCall is found not guilty by a hurried and impromptu court of locals on the grounds that he was merely avenging the prior murder of his brother by Hickok; but due to Hickok's high regard and the presence of many of Hickok's good friends in town, McCall is made to realize it is best to leave. McCall is later tracked down and brought to Yankton, Dakota Territory for prosecution by Seth Bullock and Charlie Utter. It is assumed McCall is executed some time later.\n\nBoth Jack McCall and Francis Wolcott, the George Hearst advance agent in \"Deadwood\" in season 2, are portrayed by the same actor.\n\nWyatt Earp (Gale Harold) rides into camp with his brother Morgan, supposedly after saving a stagecoach from robbery, although Earp later confesses to making the story up to enhance their reputation. Upon his arrival he is greeted by Sheriff Bullock. Wyatt tells him that he was a lawman in Kansas, but has come to camp to work a timber lease he won in cards. Wyatt and Morgan are hired by Cy Tolliver as gunmen but are fired when they see Hearst bring in the Pinkertons. After the Earps have a confrontation with one of Hearst's gunmen and find out that the timber lease is worth nothing, Sheriff Bullock tells Wyatt and Morgan that it is best they move on. Wyatt and Morgan leave town as allies, if not friends, of Bullock.\n\nMorgan Earp (Austin Nichols) rides into camp with Wyatt after allegedly saving a stagecoach. Morgan has a knack for being a hothead and flirting with ladies. After some harsh words with one of Hearst's gunmen, he shoots him in the leg. Wyatt, fearing for his brother, pulls the gunman's pistol out of his holster and claims it's a fair fight. Morgan leaves town with Wyatt, after Bullock suggests they move on.\n\nAlice Isringhausen (Sarah Paulson) is hired from back East by Alma Garret to tutor Sofia. Isringhausen remains unobtrusively in the background with Sofia throughout most of the drama between Alma and Seth. After Seth's family suddenly arrives, in Alma's newly upset state, Alma and Isringhausen have an argument over Alma's perception of Isringhausen's lack of warmth towards the girl, and she is fired. Isringhausen does not leave town, however, and instead begins to spread tales of Alma having been behind Swearengen's murder of Mr. Garret. Swearengen quickly realizes that she is not what she seems to be, and she confirms that she was indeed sent by Mr. Garret's family to wrest control of what promises to be a lucrative claim away from Alma, by any means necessary. Swearengen appears to go along with the plan to frame Alma, but correctly identifies Isringhausen as a Pinkerton, whom he despises as inferior to even his own admittedly low moral standards, and, more importantly, he calculates that the entrance of large and powerful interests from outside the camp would be inimical to his own interests. Therefore, he makes plans with Bullock to double cross Isringhausen by getting her to document her scheme rather than exposing it. Swearengen ultimately bribes her to leave town. Claiming light-heartedly and deceitfully to be a former steamboat captain on the Mississippi, Miss Isringhausen has several romantic encounters with Silas Adams, who is also staying at the Grand Central Hotel.\n\nHawkeye (played by Monty \"Hawkeye\" Henson) is Silas Adams' assistant. He first appears in Season 1 having travelled with Adams to Deadwood. Thereafter he acts as a courier and (somewhat lazy) messenger for Adams.\n\nCommissioner Hugo Jarry (Stephen Tobolowsky) is the representative of Yankton in the camp. Bullock must protect him from an enraged mob of prospectors who fear their gold claims will be invalidated when the camp is incorporated into Dakota. Swearengen, with the assistance of Bullock, Star, and Adams, forces Jarry to make concessions to Deadwood in order to outbid Montana on annexation. He returns in Season 3 having bought the votes of soldiers for Hearst. He implies to Adams he may be in some trouble for having defrauded the county of money intended for the reservations for his own gain.\n\nMaddie (Alice Krige) is a \"Madame\" of considerable reputation in the West, known both to Cy Tolliver and Francis Wolcott. When Joanie Stubbs decides to set up her own brothel, the Chez Amis, she invites Maddie to join in the enterprise as her partner. Maddie and her three prostitutes arrive in Deadwood in the first episode of Season 2 on the same stagecoach as Mrs. Bullock and William Bullock. She had decided to join Joanie when she learned that Mr. Wolcott would soon be moving to Deadwood as the frontman for George Hearst. She apparently got to know Wolcott, and his predilection for killing prostitutes, at one of Hearst's earlier camps, likely in Montana. She plans for Wolcott to murder a young prostitute she knows he favors, and then extort from Wolcott money for her \"long and comfortable\" retirement. Wolcott does exactly what she expects him to do, murdering two of the Chez Amis prostitutes under Maddie's manipulation and watchful eye. Her scheme fails when she wanders too close to Wolcott's still-bloody straight razor, allowing him to grab her and cut her throat with a single swipe.\n\nMose Manuel (Pruitt Taylor Vince) owns a gold claim which Wolcott wishes to buy on behalf of Hearst. Knowing he must sell, he tries to persuade his brother that he will mismanage the operation and ought to sell. When he refuses, Mose murders him. The death of his brother weighs on him, however, and Mose becomes a continuing problem for Cy Tolliver as his already belligerent attitude worsens. Wolcott provokes him and Tolliver's men shoot him down. But because of his immense size, the bullets do not penetrate his vital organs and Cochran is able to save his life. He recovers on the Chez Ami's floor and once healed remains there as watchman, a changed man from his near death experience.\n\nAndy Cramed (Zach Grenier) is a conman who has often worked with Cy Tolliver and is set to do so again until he arrives in Deadwood suffering from smallpox. He is taken to the woods and left to die on Tolliver's orders, but is discovered by Jane. After his convalescence in the smallpox tent and aiding in the distribution of the vaccine, he leaves.\n\nHe eventually returns as a self-proclaimed minister in the second season, conducting the funeral service of William Bullock and the marriage of Alma and Ellsworth. In the second-season finale he attacks Tolliver for mocking God and his newfound faith in front of him, stabbing him in the gut and walking away. He attempts to make recompense in Season 3 by asking for Tolliver's forgiveness. Tolliver threatens him with a gun, ranting about redemption, but Leon interrupts them and Cramed leaves, disgusted with Tolliver's behavior.\n\nCaptain Joseph \"Joe\" Turner (Allan Graf) is an enforcer and bodyguard to George Hearst. He is first seen in the second season ruthlessly safeguarding Hearst's mining operation and dealing with thieves, often delivering letters to Swearengen. The captain defeated or killed a man named Leonard in single combat in Star City, a fight that Hearst later recalled for the captain in caution. He helps Hearst assault Swearengen, and later taunts Swearengen's muscleman Dan Dority into a public brawl, a fight set up to prove Hearst's superiority over Swearengen. Despite Turner initially gaining the upper hand, Dority tears out Turner's left eye in a move of desperation before beating him to death with a stove-length.\n\n\"Aunt\" Lou Marchbanks (Cleo King) is George Hearst's personal cook. As Hearst has recently bought the Grand Central Hotel, she becomes the cook there, forming a friendship with the hotel's former cook Richardson, who becomes her assistant. When her son Odell arrives in Deadwood intent on making a business proposition to Hearst, she unsuccessfully attempts to convince her son to leave town and return to Liberia, recognizing Hearst's dangerous nature. Her fears are seemingly confirmed when Odell is found dead under suspicious circumstances. She enjoys playing mahjong. The character is loosely based on former slave Lucretia \"Aunt Lou\" Marchbanks, a celebrated cook who worked for several mining superintendents in the Black Hills (though was never employed by Hearst).\n\nJen (Jennifer Lutheran) is one of Swearengen's prostitutes in the Gem Saloon. Petite, blonde, pretty, she is demure in a way that belies her occupation. She is learning to read with the help of Johnny Burns, who has a growing affection for her. He defends her against the coarseness of Morgan Earp and stands up to Swearengen when Al schemes to appease Hearst's demand for the death of Trixie by killing Jen and substituting her body for Trixie's. Johnny stands up to Al but fails later by the hands of Dan and the ruse is carried out successfully.\n\nLila (Meghan Glennon) is a prostitute at the Bella Union and friend of Joanie Stubbs. Lila appears as charismatic and content to begin with but eventually succumbs to drug addiction, much to Joanie's frustration.\n\nEddie Sawyer (Ricky Jay) appears in the first season. A card sharp at Cy Tolliver's Bella Union saloon, Sawyer has worked with Tolliver for 17 years and is one of Cy's most reliable hands. He becomes disillusioned by his boss's callousness at sending Andy Cramed to die in the woods and torturing two young thieves, skulking around the Bella Union and embarrassing Tolliver at a town meeting. He decides to rob Cy in retaliation, in part to fund Joanie Stubbs in opening her own brothel. In the second season, Tolliver reveals that he knew Eddie had been stealing but that he had left the camp before Cy could take any form of retaliation.\n\nClaudia (Cynthia Ettinger) arrives in the third season as part of Langrishe's theater troupe. She has a sexual relationship with Con Stapleton and is jealous of Langrishe's relationships with Josiane and Mary.\n\nDolly (Ashleigh Kizer) is a prostitute at the Gem Saloon. Swearengen begins a relationship with her after Trixie leaves his employ. Although he doesn't harbor the same affection for her as Trixie, Swearengen confides his innermost vulnerabilities with Dolly.\n"}
{"id": "1926400", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926400", "title": "Burnt Hill, Berkshire", "text": "Burnt Hill, Berkshire\n\nBurnt Hill is a hamlet in Berkshire, England. It is just north of the M4 motorway in West Berkshire, in the civil parish of Yattendon (where according to the Grid Ref the 2011 Census population was mostly included), which is also the closest village, and lies in the North Wessex Downs area of outstanding natural beauty (AONB) .\n\nBurnt Hill seems to have been established as a brick making settlement in the 18th century and there were several brick works in the area in the 18th and 19th centuries. Burnt Hill probably takes its name from the glow in the night sky from the firing of bricks. In 1703 one Isaac Jeram is recorded as working in bricks at Burnt Hill. In the south east of the village is Kiln Pond and, as its name suggests, this was probably a source of clay for the brick making.\n\nBurnt Hill is surrounded by fields of the Yattendon Estate, many of Christmas trees, for which the estate is well known and Burnt Hill Common of mixed woodland. There was a convoy camp stationed at Burnt Hill Common during World War 2 and concrete foundations of many of the building can still be found in amongst the trees.\n\nCombined Ashampstead and Burnt Hill Commons are 80 hectares of mixed woodland. Until the mid 13th century the Commons were pasture woodland. Subsequently, they were enclosed to form a deer park with a substantial bank and inner ditch that can still be traced for some 5.5 km.\n\nThe main street around which most of the village is arranged is unedifyingly named Scratchface Lane probably referring to the narrow, bramble strewn track it once was.\n\nThere are some notable buildings in Burnt Hill including the Methodist Chapel 1864 which is still in use, Burnt Hill House, Burnt Hill Cottage, Wistaria Cottage (now very much extended), Sloe Pightle (pightle a small field or enclosure presumably where sloes grew) and Nut & Bolt House formerly the Axe and Compass Public House ( The Compasses Inn). The Axe and Compass changed its name to the Nut & Bolt Public House in the 1970s (reputedly after the licensees of the time; John and Val Bolton ) According to the West Berkshire Campaign for Real Ale when the Boltons were asked why they changed the name they said,‘Because we are the Bolts and all our customers are nuts!’ It is now called Nut & Bolt House, a private house.\n\nNut & Bolt House has two dated bricks in its front facade circa 1834 and 1873 but was a public house from at least 1817 when it was mentioned in the trial of one William Fuller for \"stealing, on the 22d of April , one gelding, price 20£.; one mare, price 20£., the property of Edward Shepherd ; and one coat, value 15s. , the property of Thomas Shepherd\" a farmer and his son at nearby Yattendon. John Hope, an acquaintance of the defendant, testified \"On the 21st of April, I saw him at the sign of the Compasses, at Burnt-hill, which is about a mile from Mr. Shepherd's; he left there about a quarter after six in the evening.\" Fuller was found guilty and sentenced to death aged 22.\n\nLater the Axe and Compass was probably a butcher too when it was licensed to a William Larkcom (b 1809 d 10 July 1891 at the Axe and Compass), After Williams' death it was licensed to his daughter Elizabeth. By 1924 it was still in the Larkcom family having been taken over by Elizabeth's brother another William.\n\nOther licensees followed Chas Prince from at least 1928 to 1931 and William George Alsbury from at least 1964 to 1971 (Clearly there are others.)\n\nOpposite Nut & Bolt House is the curiously named The Bungalow; curious because it is not a bungalow. Prior to ~2010 it had the far more interesting name of Compass Pightle providing a link between Axe and Compass and the use of artisan tools as names and symbols and Sloe Pightle and the now archaic use of the word pightle as a small field or clearing. Hopefully the plot will be restored to its original name in the future.\n\nBy 1830 in reaction to the introduction of mechanisation to agriculture the South of England erupted in what became known as the Swing Riots. Disturbances started in nearby Yattendon and on 21 November a hard core of rioters met at the Axe and Compass, Burnt Hill. After a night at the pub they acquired a sledge hammer and a horn and at first light set off to local farms to extort money and smash threshing machines, later returning to the Axe and Compass before setting off again at nightfall to other farms in the area. By the early hours of 24 November the troops arrived and arrested eleven of the rioters although none was eventually charged.\n\nAt the time of the 1851 religious census, the Primitive Methodists were holding Sunday services in a cottage at Burnt Hill, which was not used exclusively for religious worship. It attracted a congregation of forty. The census return for that Sunday was signed by a local preacher, George Merritt, who lived in Burnt Hill and was an agricultural labourer.\n\nIn 1864 the Methodist chapel was built and named Zion. It contains a portrait of the well-known and widely influential Primitive Methodist minister, Isaac Nullis, born nearby at Ashampstead in 1828. Zion is still in use as a Methodist chapel two Sundays a month.\n\nNewbury, Thatcham, Reading\n\nYattendon, Frilsham\n"}
{"id": "1926402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926402", "title": "Equal (sweetener)", "text": "Equal (sweetener)\n\nEqual is a brand of artificial sweetener containing aspartame, acesulfame potassium, dextrose and maltodextrin. It is marketed as a tabletop sweetener by Merisant, a global corporation which also used to own the well-known NutraSweet brand when it was a subsidiary of Monsanto and which has headquarters in Chicago, Illinois, Switzerland, Mexico, and Singapore. In French Canada, Equal is known as \"Égal\".\n\nIn the early 1980s, Equal and its European counterpart, Canderel, were the first aspartame-based sweeteners to be sold to the public. Originally, the product was to be named Equa. The Chicago advertising agency for G. D. Searle, Tatham, Laird & Kudner, recommended adding an \"L\" to the end of the name, to imply its taste is equal to sugar.\n\nEqual is sold variously as a bottled powder (\"Equal Spoonful\"), in blue individual-serving sachets or packets, and as a dissolving tablet for use in beverages such as tea and coffee.\n\nAn Equal sachet contains dextrose, aspartame (1.7%), acesulfame potassium (1.2%), starch, silicon dioxide (an anti-caking agent), maltodextrin, and unspecified flavouring. \n\nEqual tablets are not an identical formulation, and their primary ingredient is lactose. Other ingredients are aspartame, acesulfame potassium, cellulose gum, and calcium stearate. Proportions are not given on the small packages used for tablets. Do note that the tablets are kosher, so the lactose is presumably from a non-dairy source.\n\nAspartame-based products have gained regulatory approvals permitting sale in more than 100 countries. Merisant's NutraSweet company states that aspartame is now used in more than 5,000 products and consumed by some 250 million people worldwide. These include The Coca-Cola Company and PepsiCo.\n\nIn 2006-2007, Merisant and McNeil Nutritionals were involved in a protracted legal battle over marketing for Splenda. (Main article: Sucralose.) On January 9, 2009, Merisant filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1926403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926403", "title": "L'Unità", "text": "L'Unità\n\nl'Unità (, lit. 'the Unity') was an Italian newspaper, founded as official newspaper of the Italian Communist Party. Once left-wing, it has been supportive of that party's successor parties, the Democratic Party of the Left, Democrats of the Left and from October 2007 until its closure the Democratic Party. The newspaper closed on 31 July 2014. It was restarted on 30 June 2015, but it ceased again on 3 June 2017.\n\n\"l'Unità\" was founded by Antonio Gramsci on 12 February 1924 as the \"newspaper of workers and peasants\", the official newspaper of Italian Communist Party (PCI). The paper was printed in Milan with a circulation of 20,000 to 30,000. On 8 November 1925, publications were blocked by the Prefect of the city together with Italian Socialist Party's \"Avanti!\". After an assassination attempt on Benito Mussolini (31 October 1926), its publication was completely suppressed. A clandestine edition was resumed on the first day of 1927 with irregular circulation in Milan, Turin, Rome and in France. Full publication was resumed after the Allied conquest of Rome on 6 June 1944, the new editor-in-chief being Celeste Negarville.\n\nAfter the liberation from the German occupation in 1945, new local editions were started in Milan, Genoa and Turin, the latter edited by philosopher Ludovico Geymonat. Elio Vittorini became the editor-in-chief of \"l'Unità\" during this period. The newspaper's contributors included Davide Layolo, Luigi Cavallo, Ada Gobetti, Cesare Pavese, Italo Calvino, Alfonso Gatto, Aldo Tortorella and Paolo Spriano. In the same year, the Festa de \"l'Unità\" was launched in most Italian cities. In 1957, the Genoese, Milanese and Torinese editions were merged into a single edition for northern Italy.\n\nThe newspaper's editorships were unified in 1962 under Mario Alicata, who was succeeded by Maurizio Ferrara in 1966. In 1974, daily circulation of \"l'Unità\" amounted to 239,000 copies, but this number dropped considerably starting from early 1980s, mostly from the competition with the new left-oriented \"La Repubblica\": the 100 million copies sold in 1981 decreased to 60 million in 1982. In the subsequent year, a document published by the newspaper which accused the Christian Democratic minister Vincenzo Scotti of being a collaborator of the Camorra leader Raffaele Cutolo proved to be a false. The editor-in-chief Claudio Petruccioli resigned and was replaced by Emanuele Macaluso. Massimo D'Alema, the future Prime Minister of Italy, was managing-director until July 1990.\n\nFrom 1989 to 1990, the newspaper was accompanied by a satirical weekly magazine, \"Cuore\", directed by Michele Serra. In 1991, the title changed from \"Journal of the Italian Communist Party\" to \"Journal founded by Antonio Gramsci\". From 1992 to 1996, director was Walter Veltroni, who started periodically accompanying the newspaper with free gifts such as books and videocassettes.\n\nThe newspaper ceased publication for eight months from 28 July 2000 to 28 March 2001 because of financial troubles. Since then, it was published by Baldini & Castoldi, a company not linked to the Democrats of the Left or Democratic Party. However, its political position continued to be strongly tied to the Democratic Party.\n\nOn May 2008, Tiscali founder and Sardinia President Renato Soru finalized a deal to become the new newspaper owner. One of the first moves made by the new property was the appointment of former \"La Repubblica\" journalist Concita De Gregorio as new editor-in-chief in August 2008, replacing Antonio Padellaro in the post. On 7 May 2012, the paper began to be published in Berliner format.\n\n\"l'Unita\" again suspended publication on 31 July 2014. A meeting of shareholders was unable to decide how to keep the newspaper financially viable as debts amounted to €30 million.\n\nThe 1988 circulation of \"l'Unita\" was 300,000 copies. In 1991, the paper had a circulation of circa 156,000 copies, but next year its circulation was 124,000 copies. In 1997, it was the tenth best-selling Italian newspaper with a circulation of 82,078 copies. The circulation of the paper was 49,536 copies in 2008 and 53,221 copies in 2009. It fell to 44,450 copies in 2010. In April 2014, the paper had a circulation of 20,937 copies.\n"}
{"id": "1926409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926409", "title": "Broyden–Fletcher–Goldfarb–Shanno algorithm", "text": "Broyden–Fletcher–Goldfarb–Shanno algorithm\n\nIn numerical optimization, the Broyden–Fletcher–Goldfarb–Shanno (BFGS) algorithm is an iterative method for solving unconstrained nonlinear optimization problems.\n\nThe BFGS method belongs to quasi-Newton methods, a class of hill-climbing optimization techniques that seek a stationary point of a (preferably twice continuously differentiable) function. For such problems, a necessary condition for optimality is that the gradient be zero. Newton's method and the BFGS methods are not guaranteed to converge unless the function has a quadratic Taylor expansion near an optimum. However, BFGS can have acceptable performance even for non-smooth optimization instances.\n\nIn Quasi-Newton methods, the Hessian matrix of second derivatives is not computed. Instead, the Hessian matrix is approximated using updates specified by gradient evaluations (or approximate gradient evaluations). Quasi-Newton methods are generalizations of the secant method to find the root of the first derivative for multidimensional problems. In multi-dimensional problems, the secant equation does not specify a unique solution, and quasi-Newton methods differ in how they constrain the solution. The BFGS method is one of the most popular members of this class. Also in common use is L-BFGS, which is a limited-memory version of BFGS that is particularly suited to problems with very large numbers of variables (e.g., >1000). The BFGS-B variant handles simple box constraints.\n\nThe algorithm is named after Charles George Broyden, Roger Fletcher, Donald Goldfarb and David Shanno.\n\nThe optimization problem is to minimize formula_1, where formula_2 is a vector in formula_3, and formula_4 is a differentiable scalar function. There are no constraints on the values that formula_2 can take.\n\nThe algorithm begins at an initial estimate for the optimal value formula_6 and proceeds iteratively to get a better estimate at each stage.\n\nThe search direction p at stage \"k\" is given by the solution of the analogue of the Newton equation:\n\nwhere formula_8 is an approximation to the Hessian matrix, which is updated iteratively at each stage, and formula_9 is the gradient of the function evaluated at x. A line search in the direction p is then used to find the next point x by minimizing formula_10 over the scalar formula_11\n\nThe quasi-Newton condition imposed on the update of formula_8 is\n\nLet formula_14 and formula_15, then formula_16 satisfies formula_17, which is the secant equation. The curvature condition formula_18 should be satisfied for formula_16 to be positive definite, which can be verified by pre-multiplying the secant equation with formula_20. If the function is not strongly convex, then the condition has to be enforced explicitly.\n\nInstead of requiring the full Hessian matrix at the point formula_21 to be computed as formula_16, the approximate Hessian at stage \"k\" is updated by the addition of two matrices:\n\nBoth formula_24 and formula_25 are symmetric rank-one matrices, but their sum is a rank-two update matrix. BFGS and DFP updating matrix both differ from its predecessor by a rank-two matrix. Another simpler rank-one method is known as symmetric rank-one method, which does not guarantee the positive definiteness. In order to maintain the symmetry and positive definiteness of formula_16, the update form can be chosen as formula_27. Imposing the secant condition, formula_28. Choosing formula_29 and formula_30, we can obtain:\n\nFinally, we substitute formula_33 and formula_34 into formula_27 and get the update equation of formula_16:\n\nFrom an initial guess formula_6 and an approximate Hessian matrix formula_39 the following steps are repeated as formula_40 converges to the solution:\n\nformula_1 denotes the objective function to be minimized. Convergence can be checked by observing the norm of the gradient, formula_50. If formula_39is initialized with formula_52, the first step will be equivalent to a gradient descent, but further steps are more and more refined by formula_53, the approximation to the Hessian.\n\nThe first step of the algorithm is carried out using the inverse of the matrix formula_8, which can be obtained efficiently by applying the Sherman–Morrison formula to the step 5 of the algorithm, giving\n\nThis can be computed efficiently without temporary matrices, recognizing that formula_56 is symmetric,\nand that formula_57 and formula_58 are scalars, using an expansion such as\n\nIn statistical estimation problems (such as maximum likelihood or Bayesian inference), credible intervals or confidence intervals for the solution can be estimated from the inverse of the final Hessian matrix. However, these quantities are technically defined by the true Hessian matrix, and the BFGS approximation may not converge to the true Hessian matrix.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1926410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926410", "title": "Negau helmet", "text": "Negau helmet\n\nNegau helmet refers to one of 26 bronze helmets (23 of which are preserved) dating to c. 450 BC–350 BC, found in 1812 in a cache in Ženjak, near Negau, Duchy of Styria (now Negova, Slovenia). The helmets are of typical Etruscan 'vetulonic' shape, sometimes described as of the Negau type. They were buried in c. 50 BC, shortly before the Roman invasion of the area. Helmets of the Negau type were typically worn by priests at the time of deposition of these helmets, so they seem to have been left at the Ženjak site for ceremonial reasons. The village of Ženjak was of great interest to German archaeologists during the Nazi period and was briefly renamed Harigast during World War II. The site has never been excavated properly.\n\nOn one of the helmets (\"Negau B\"), there is an inscription in a northern Etruscan alphabet. The inscription need not date to c. 400 BC, but was possibly added by a later owner in c. 2nd century BC or later. It is read as:\nMany interpretations of the inscription have been proffered in the past, but the most recent interpretation is by T.L. Markey (2001), who reads the inscription as 'Harigast the priest' (from *\"teiwaz\" \"god\"), as another inscribed helmet also found at the site bears several names (mostly Celtic) followed by religious titles.\n\nIn any case, the Germanic name \"Harigast\" is almost universally read. Formerly, some scholars have seen the inscription as an early incarnation of the runic alphabet, but it is now accepted that the script is North Etruscan proper, and precedes the formation of the Runic alphabet. \"Harigast\" constitutes an attestation of the Germanic sound shift, probably the earliest preserved, preceding Tacitus perhaps by some two centuries.\n\nMust (1957) reads \"Hariχas Titieva\" as a Raetic personal name, the first element from the Indo-European (Venetic rather than Germanic), the second from the Etruscan.\n\nThe four discrete inscriptions on the helmet usually called \"Negau A\" are read by Markey as: \"Dubni banuabi\" 'of Dubnos the pig-slayer'; \"sirago turbi\" 'astral priest of the troop'; \"Iars'e esvii\" 'Iarsus the divine'; and \"Kerup\", probably an abbreviation for a Celtic name like Cerubogios.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1926415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926415", "title": "Volunteer State Community College", "text": "Volunteer State Community College\n\nVolunteer State Community College (Vol State) is a public community college in Gallatin, Tennessee. It is part of the Tennessee Board of Regents.\n\nVol State serves the suburban Nashville community. The college is 30 miles (48 km) to the northeast in the Nashville suburb of Gallatin. In total, Vol State serves 11 counties in northern Middle Tennessee: Clay, Jackson, Macon, Overton, Pickett, Putnam, Robertson, Smith, Sumner, Trousdale, and Wilson.\n\nVol State has six major divisions: Health Sciences, Nursing, Humanities, Business and Technology, Social Science and Education, and Math and Science. Popular programs at the school include Radiologic Technology, Physical Therapist Assistant, Criminal Justice, Education, Pre-Nursing, and Communications. The college has a television studio, a radio station, and recording studios. It offers an Entertainment Media Production program and classes in recording, video production, web design and music business. Many students choose the university prep program General Studies which prepares them for transfer to four-year colleges and universities.\n\nThe college has a degree-granting center in Livingston, Tennessee and offers numerous courses at campuses in Springfield and Cookeville. Vol State offers classes in traditional, online, and hybrid formats.\n\nAll four Vol State campuses have events and activities for students. These range from concerts and art shows to speakers and outdoor events. A list of current student organizations can be found at http://www.volstate.edu/StudentLife/Organizations.php The Student Government Association (SGA) is where students come together to discuss policy, funding, activities, and student participation throughout student life. Some of the student organizations outside of the SGA include Phi Theta Kappa Honors Society, Team Change, Spectrum, Artisan's Alliance, and more. If students want, they can work on the weekly student newspaper, \"The Settler\", or participate in the award-winning student literary publication, \"Pioneer Pen\". Students can also work at the Vol State radio station, WVCP, where they can schedule as a weekly host and learn the best practices for being an announcer. Theater students produce several plays each year and the Music Department puts on showcases each semester that feature student artists and groups. The Music Department also produces a CD of student artists or groups to sell at each showcase. Students have free access to a fitness room in Gallatin with treadmills and workout machines.\n\nVol State offers more than 100 programs of study. The college is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools to award the A.A. (associate of arts), A.S. (associate of science), A.A.S (associate of applied science), A.S.T (associate of science in teaching), and A.F.A (associate of fine arts) degrees. The college also offers numerous technical certificates in a variety of disciplines. Vol State participates in the state TN Promise and TN Reconnect programs, which, respectively, provide tuition-free classes for graduating high school seniors, and adult students who don't already have a college degree. It also offers some financial aid assistance for people with a degree who are considering pursuing a new degree.\n\nVol State at Livingston is a full service degree-granting location of Volunteer State Community College. The campus underwent a major multi-year construction project transforming the original building into a new facility. It features 15 classrooms with the latest teaching technology; ITV interactive television classroom, science-biology lab, computer lab, library, 18 faculty offices, administration offices, outdoor and indoor study areas. Several of the classrooms are prepared for Allied Health classes.\n\nVol State offers the associate of science and associate of applied science degrees at Livingston. Classes include general education, vocational and career development courses. They are scheduled during the day and evening. Formats include online and traditional classroom courses.\n\nThe Livingston campus is located at 113 Windle Community Road.\n\nVol State, along with Austin Peay State University, offers classes at the Highland Crest site in Springfield, Tennessee. This $4.4 million facility contains 25,000 square feet of space housing four classrooms, a multipurpose room, a science lab, an interactive television (ITV) classroom, a bookstore, a library, a learning support center, and ten faculty offices. Classes offered at this campus include general education requirements for most degree programs.\n\nHighland Crest is located just off Highway 431 in Springfield, William Batson Parkway at 150 Laureate Avenue.\n\nVol State offers classes at the campus in Cookeville. Classes include general education requirements for most degree programs. The campus is located at 1000 Neal Street in Cookeville.\n\nThe athletic teams at Volunteer State Community College include Baseball, Men's Basketball, Women's Basketball, and Women's Fast Pitch Softball. The intercollegiate teams have been highly successful and nationally ranked. Vol State is a member of the Western Division of the Tennessee Junior and Community College Athletic Association. Vol State is also a member of the National Junior College Athletic Association Region VII.\n\nCincinnati Reds all-star pitcher Steve Delabar attended the school.\n\nThe Vol State baseball team went to the Junior College World Series twice, in 1994 and 1999. The softball team competed in the Division One NJCAA Softball Championship in 2011 and went to the final round in 2012.\nThe college was damaged heavily in a tornado outbreak on April 7, 2006. Two buildings suffered direct hits from the twister, and more than 90 cars in the parking lots were damaged and destroyed. There were only minor injuries on campus. The Hal Reed Ramer Administration Building received major damage, including damage to the office of the President. Noble Caudill Hall suffered perhaps the worst damage, as much of the second floor on the south side of the building collapsed, and a large section of roofing above WVCP radio and the Wemyss Auditorium was ripped off and/or collapsed inward. Caudill Hall closed for more than a year and a half until repairs were completed. In all, eleven classrooms had to be relocated due to damage and 72 faculty and staff offices were moved. Volunteer State building coordinators and campus safety staff have been credited with helping to save lives on the day the tornado hit. They were honored in a ceremony at the school.\n\nBy spring of 2007, the Ramer building was fully occupied again, including a new home for the student radio station. The Caudill Building re-opened for classes on January 12, 2008. A major landscaping project was finished in spring 2008 marking the end of tornado repair.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1926417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926417", "title": "Frilsham", "text": "Frilsham\n\nFrilsham is a village and civil parish centred NE of Newbury, in the English county of Berkshire. It is a village near the Berkshire Downs, bisected by the M4 in its north and its nucleus is on a hill surrounded by woods and meadows. Various roads and buildings have views over the small valley formed by the upper Pang (or Pang Bourne).\n\nIt is a village near the Berkshire Downs, bisected by the M4 in its north and its nucleus is on a hill surrounded by woods and meadows. One of the woods, Coombe Wood is listed as a site of Site of Special Scientific Interest (SSSI). Various roads and buildings have views over the small valley formed by the upper Pang (or Pang Bourne).\n\nNo mill is mentioned in the Domesday Brook, nor does any record of one occur until 1839. It was then stated that in 1838 the springs were so low that no water passed the mill for several months, and mention was made of a tradition that about 100 years earlier the springs were equally low and that a duck had then made her nest under the water-wheel, laid her eggs and hatched a brood before a drop of water had passed.\n\nThe chief crops were in the 1920s wheat, barley and oats. The soil is chalk near the river, but there are beds of clay and sand at the eastern side of the parish. No railway or canal passes through the parish, with one well-maintained road from north to south from Hampstead Norris to Bucklebury. Frilsham Common was inclosed in 1857. The population was at that time purely agricultural. The village was round the church at the southern end of the parish, with the rectory to the east. Aside from the varied elevations an aesthetic point made was of chestnut trees in the north of the church yard by gazetteer compilers in the 1920s.\n\nThe manor was held of Edward the Confessor by two free men, two decades later on the Domesday Survey it was owned by Henry de Ferrers. His son was elevated to an earl, Earl Ferrers, and the overlordship continued in the hands of his descendants until the 13th century, it is recorded as held of the fee of the Earl of Derby's eldest son, Earl Ferrers. Double-incidence rebel Robert de Ferrers, 6th Earl of Derby led an insurrection in 1263 and was three years later deprived of his earldom of Derby and estates, which were then granted to Edmund Crouchback, the king's son. In consequence this overlordship followed the descent of the earldom and duchy of Lancaster. Manorial court rolls for the year 1440–1 are in the archives of the Duchy.\n\nIts various tenants include the related families of Sir Ralph Peche such as in 1173; Walter de Rideware, in the 13th century, Sir Oliver d'Eincourt, Walter de Rideware, Sir Thomas Rideware, John Falconer of Thurcaston, and William Cotton.\n\nFrom 1372 this descent included: Hugh de Berwyk, Ralph Boteler, William Haute, John Boteler, then by sale: Sir Edmund Hungerford, kt., and others purchasing land in this neighbourhood for \"John Norreys\" – see Hampstead Norreys.\n\nHe was the eldest son of William Norreys of Bray. His later namesake seems to have attached to his adjoining manor of Yattendon with which manor it afterwards passed until 1623, when, on the death of the Earl of Berkshire, Frilsham passed to his daughter Elizabeth wife of Edward Wray. It passed to second husband the Earl of Lindsey then James Bertie, her eldest son by her second husband, was in 1675 created Baron Norreys of Rycote and in 1682 Earl of Abingdon. It remained in this line of earls until sold to 'Sir George Cornewall', born Sir George Amyand a leading Whig of London. In 1800 Sir George sold this manor to Mr. Hayward who left it to relation Robert Floyd on his 1818 death. His family long after were the official patrons of the parish church.\n\nHis daughter-in-law sold it in 1903 to Henry Frederick George Weber, previously of Bucklebury, and sold in 1907 to Sir Cameron Gull, of Frilsham House, the other major home and estate in the parish, who thus enhanced his local monopoly on the parish's agriculture land.\n\nBenjamin Buckler, author (including of \"Stemmata Chichcleana\", past Rector of Frilsham\nJohn Bradford, later Nonconformist minister and author of several works on theology, was a curate (minor cleric) at a similar time.\n\nBucklebury is large in terms of amenities among these, however smaller than most English definitions of a town, however has for instance three churches.\n\n"}
{"id": "1926422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926422", "title": "Franciszek Smuglewicz", "text": "Franciszek Smuglewicz\n\nFranciszek Smuglewicz (; 6 October 1745 – 18 September 1807) was a Polish-Lithuanian draughtsman and painter. Smuglewicz is considered a progenitor of Lithuanian art in the modern era. He was precursor of historicism in Polish painting. He was also a founder of Vilnius school of art, his most prominent students were Jan Rustem, Jan Krzysztof Damel, Gaspar Borowski and Józef Oleszkiewicz. His father Łukasz Smuglewicz and brother Antoni were also painters.\n\nFranciszek Smuglewicz was born in Warsaw as son of Łukasz Smuglewicz, who was also a painter, and Regina Olesińska. His mother, Regina Olesińska, was the niece of painter Szymon Czechowicz. He made his first steps as a painter in his father and Czechowicz joint workshop in Warsaw. In 1763 Franciszek journeyed to Rome, where he began the study of fine arts under the tutorship of Anton von Maron. He stayed in Rome for 21 years, where he embraced the Neo-Classical style.\n\nIn 1765 he received a royal scholarship from the King of Poland Stanisław August Poniatowski and was admitted into the Saint Lucas Academy. As a colleague of Vincenzo Brenna he participated in cataloging artifacts from Nero's \"Domus Aurea\". In 1784 he returned to Warsaw, where he founded his own school of fine arts, one of the predecessors of the modern Academy of Fine Arts.\n\nA classicist, but under strong influence of the Polish baroque, Smuglewicz became a notable representative of historical paintings, a genre that dominated the fine arts of Poland throughout the 19th century. Around 1790 he started working on a series of sketches and lithographies inspired by Adam Naruszewicz's \"History of the Polish Nation\". Although never finished, this series gained him much popularity.\n\nIn 1797 he moved to Vilnius, where he became the founder and the first deacon of the Institute of Sketch and Painting at the Academy of Vilnius. \n\nIn 1801 he painted allegorical ceiling paintings for Tsar Paul I at his new imperial palace, the Mikhailovsky Castle, in St Petersburg, which was also designed by Brenna.\n\nA tutor of generations of Polish-Lithuanian painters, Smuglewicz devoted himself to historical paintings in the latter years of his life. He brought to Lithuania classical ideas and views of enlightened classicism. He painted everyday life, and the architecture of Vilnius in a realistic manner. His works helped with the ongoing reconstruction of the Royal Palace of Lithuania in Vilnius.\n\nAmong the notable surviving works of that period are \"A Meeting of the Four Years' Sejm\" (1793) and \"Kościuszko's Oath at Kraków's Old Town Market\" (1797), \"Lithuanian Peasants\", \"Freeing Peasants from Serfdom in Merkinė\". Among his works of the period are views of the city walls and city gates that were demolished during the 19th century.\n\nHe was buried in Vilnius at Rasos Cemetery (\"Polish\": Cmentarz na Rossie), although the exact location is not known.\n"}
{"id": "1926425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926425", "title": "Thermostatic radiator valve", "text": "Thermostatic radiator valve\n\nA thermostatic radiator valve (TRV) is a self-regulating valve fitted to hot water heating system radiator, to control the temperature of a room by changing the flow of hot water to the radiator.\n\nThe classic thermostatic radiator valve contains a plug, typically made of wax (forming a wax motor), which expands or contracts with the surrounding temperature. This plug is connected to a pin which in turn is connected to a valve. The valve gradually closes as the temperature of the surrounding area increases, limiting the amount of hot water entering the radiator. This allows a maximum temperature to be set for each room.\n\nAs the valve works by sensing the temperature of the air surrounding it, it is important to ensure that it is not covered by material (such as curtains). If the controller is removed from the valve the valve turns on and the radiator will always be hot.\n\nTRVs should not be installed in the same room where the boiler thermostat is installed.\n\nThe replacement of a manual heating control with a TRV has been estimated to save at least of CO per year. They are also considerably cost-efficient, using heat only when needed, and can reduce heating bills by up to 17 percent a year.\n\nAs of 2012, electronic TRVs are becoming available which use electronic temperature sensing, and frequently contain programmers so that individual radiators may be programmed for different temperatures at different times of the day. Such increased control allows even better energy and CO saving.\n\n"}
{"id": "1926429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926429", "title": "Barbara Pariente", "text": "Barbara Pariente\n\nBarbara Joan Pariente (born December 24, 1948) is an attorney and jurist from Florida. She was chief justice of the Florida Supreme Court from July 1, 2004, until June 30, 2006. Pariente is the second woman to hold the position of chief justice and served on the court from 1997 to 2019. From 1993 to 1997 she was a judge on Florida's Fourth District Court of Appeal.\n\nPariente was born in New York City in 1948. She attended public schools in New York and lived in Tenafly, New Jersey, where she graduated from Tenafly High School in 1966. She attended Boston University, graduating with a Bachelor of Arts degree in communications with the highest honors. Pariente later attended the George Washington University Law School, receiving her law degree in 1973, graduating fifth in her class, and was elected a member of the Order of the Coif.\n\nIn 1973, Pariente moved to Fort Lauderdale, Florida for a two-year clerkship under Judge Norman C. Roettger, Jr. of the United States District Court for the Southern District of Florida.\n\nAfter finishing her clerkship in 1975, Pariente moved to West Palm Beach and joined the civil law firm of Cone, Wagner and Nugent, becoming a partner in 1977. In 1983, Pariente formed the law firm of Pariente & Silber. During Pariente's 18 years in private practice, she was active in the Florida Bar—serving on the Fifteenth Judicial Circuit Grievance Committee, Florida Bar Civil Rules Committee, and Fifteenth Judicial Circuit Nominating Commission—and organized Palm Beach County's first Bench-Bar Conference.\n\nPariente also was a founding member and master of the Palm Beach County chapter of the American Inns of Court and was a longtime member of the board of directors of the Palm Beach County chapter of the Legal Aid Society.\n\nIn September 1993, Pariente was appointed to Florida's Fourth District Court of Appeal by Governor Lawton Chiles(D). She served on the district appellate court until December 10, 1997, when Chiles appointed her a justice of the Florida Supreme Court.\n\nDuring Pariente's term on the court, she had worked to reform the family law system in Florida and served as liaison and later the chair of the Supreme Court's Steering Committee on Families and Children in the Courts. Pariente was also a member of the Governor's Advisory Committee on Character Education (1999) and the Florida Bar's Commission on the Legal Needs of Children (2000–2002).\n\nIn March 2003, Pariente was diagnosed with breast cancer and underwent a radical double mastectomy and a full course of chemotherapy. During her treatment, she was noted for never missing an oral argument or judicial conference. Her decision after treatment to sit on the bench without wearing a wig during televised court proceedings was widely hailed as a breakthrough for other women in treatment. \n\nPariente was the author of the 2004 decision in \"Jeb Bush v. Michael Schiavo\", which ruled unconstitutional a law passed by the Republican-controlled Florida Legislature authorizing Governor Jeb Bush to intervene in the Terri Schiavo case.\n\nIn January 2006, Pariente authored a decision in \"Jeb Bush v. Ruth Holmes\", ruling one of Florida's three school voucher programs unconstitutional. As a result, some Republican legislators pledged to campaign against Pariente in November, when she faced a routine merit retention vote. While no organized campaign against Pariente's retention resulted, no Florida judge has ever been removed from office as a result of organized campaigns. In the 2006 general election, Pariente won retention by receiving 67.6% of the vote. She won retention again in 2012 by a similar margin, despite organized opposition from several groups and the state Republican Party.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1926431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926431", "title": "USS Hudson (DD-475)", "text": "USS Hudson (DD-475)\n\nUSS \"Hudson\" (DD-475), a \"Fletcher\"-class destroyer, was the second ship of the United States Navy to be named for Captain William L. Hudson (1794–1862).\n\n\"Hudson\" (DD-475) was launched 3 June 1942 by the Boston Navy Yard; sponsored by Mrs. Henry H. Hough, wife of Admiral Henry H. Hough (Ret.); and commissioned 13 April 1943, Commander Richard R. Pratt in command.\n\nAfter shakedown and escort duty along the Atlantic coast, \"Hudson\" sailed for Efate, New Hebrides, where she was just in time to provide fire support for the initial landings on Bougainville 1 November. As the Japanese staged a heavy air attack 8 November, \"Hudson\" helped repel them by splashing two \"bogies\" and assisting on a third. She then made antishipping sweeps in the Truk area and participated in operations against the Green Islands 1 February 1944. En route to the invasion, \"Hudson\" attacked and sank a Japanese submarine on 31 January.\n\nFollowing a brief respite in Australia, \"Hudson\" steamed to Kwajalein to join the armada readying for the invasion of the Marianas. After delivering shore bombardment to clear the way for landings on Saipan, Guam, and Tinian, the destroyer took part in the Battle of the Philippine Sea on 19 June. She contributed two kills to the massive destruction of Japanese planes later known as \"The Marianas Turkey Shoot\". In mid-July, as the invasion of Guam was launched, \"Hudson\" steamed off the island to screen transports and shot down another enemy aircraft, as well as rescuing three downed Navy pilots and a Japanese flier. From the Marianas, \"Hudson\" steamed to Palau to support landings on Peleliu and Angaur from 12–25 September. Departing Manus in the Admiralty Islands on 4 October, she reached San Francisco 2 weeks later for overhaul.\n\nAfter refresher training at Pearl Harbor, \"Hudson\" returned to action, arriving off Iwo Jima on 19 February 1945. she provided vital radar picket protection during the initial invasion of the enemy stronghold. While returning from Iwo Jima after the island was secured, \"Hudson\" rescued eight survivors of a B-29 Superfortress which had crashed at sea on 8 March. Her next action came as a radar picket ship off Okinawa on 1 April, when American troops stormed the last Japanese stronghold before the home islands. On 5 April the \"Hudson\" gained credit for her second Japanese submarine, when a 6-hour attack with six barrages of depth charges resulted in the sinking of the \"RO-49\" off Okinawa. Although under almost constant attack by kamikaze aircraft, \"Hudson\" suffered only one injury to a crewman, inflicted when a kamikaze crashed nearby on 22 April 1945, a wingtip clipping a chief on the head.\n\nAlso off Okinawa, \"Hudson\" became known as the \"destroyer that saved a carrier\". On 4 May a kamikaze pilot crashed into the escort carrier \"Sangamon\" (CVE-26). \"Hudson\" steered for the fiercely blazing carrier. Despite the exploding ammunition on the drifting carrier, the destroyer was able to go alongside three times, getting a total of 16 hoses over the side. The overhanging flight deck of the carrier caused extensive damage to \"Hudson\"'s superstructure as burning debris and a flaming plane jettisoned by \"Sangamon\"s crew crashed into \"Hudson\"s depth charges on the fantail, causing some damage. When the fires were finally under control, \"Hudson\" had suffered damage equal to that of the kamikaze plane's victim, though the carrier had been saved with only a small loss of life and was ordered to Guam for repairs on 10 May.\n\nPromptly repaired, \"Hudson\" joined the 3rd Fleet off Okinawa 22 June and then proceeded to Eniwetok for convoy duty in the Marshalls. After escorting a convoy to the Aleutians, she returned to Northern Japan to take part in the occupation and control of the enemy home islands 8 September, 6 days after the signing of unconditional surrender in Tokyo Bay. From Japan, \"Hudson\" sailed to Alaska where she began carrying veterans back to the States in Operation Magic Carpet. She then put in at the Puget Sound Navy Yard, Bremerton, Wash., to prepare to decommission.\n\nSailing to San Diego 15 March 1946, \"Hudson\" decommissioned and went into reserve there 31 May. In January 1947 \"Hudson\" was moved to Mare Island Naval Shipyard, Calif, where she was put into mothballs. \"Hudson\" was stricken 1 December 1972, sold 27 November 1973 and broken up for scrap.\n\n\"Hudson\" received nine battle stars for World War II service.\n\n"}
{"id": "1926432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926432", "title": "Circumscribed circle", "text": "Circumscribed circle\n\nIn geometry, the circumscribed circle or circumcircle of a polygon is a circle that passes through all the vertices of the polygon. The center of this circle is called the circumcenter and its radius is called the circumradius.\n\nNot every polygon has a circumscribed circle. A polygon that does have one is called a cyclic polygon, or sometimes a concyclic polygon because its vertices are concyclic. All triangles, all regular simple polygons, all rectangles, all isosceles trapezoids, and all right kites are cyclic.\n\nA related notion is the one of a minimum bounding circle, which is the smallest circle that completely contains the polygon within it, if the circle's center is within the polygon. Every polygon has a unique minimum bounding circle, which may be constructed by a linear time algorithm. Even if a polygon has a circumscribed circle, it may be different from its minimum bounding circle. For example, for an obtuse triangle, the minimum bounding circle has the longest side as diameter and does not pass through the opposite vertex.\n\nAll triangles are cyclic; that is, every triangle has a circumscribed circle.\n\nThe circumcenter of a triangle can be constructed by drawing any two of the three perpendicular bisectors. For three non-collinear points,\nthese two lines cannot be parallel, and the circumcenter is the point where they cross. Any point on the bisector is equidistant from the two points that it bisects, from which it follows that this point, on both bisectors, is equidistant from all three triangle vertices.\nThe circumradius is the distance from it to any of the three vertices.\n\nAn alternate method to determine the circumcenter is to draw any two lines each one departing from one of the vertices at an angle with the common side, the common angle of departure being 90° minus the angle of the opposite vertex. (In the case of the opposite angle being obtuse, drawing a line at a negative angle means going outside the triangle.)\n\nIn coastal navigation, a triangle's circumcircle is sometimes used as a way of obtaining a position line using a sextant when no compass is available. The horizontal angle between two landmarks defines the circumcircle upon which the observer lies.\n\nIn the Euclidean plane, it is possible to give explicitly an equation of the circumcircle in terms of the Cartesian coordinates of the vertices of the inscribed triangle. Suppose that\n\nare the coordinates of points \"A\", \"B\", and \"C\". The circumcircle is then the locus of points v = (\"v\",\"v\") in the Cartesian plane satisfying the equations\n\nguaranteeing that the points A, B, C, and v are all the same distance \"r\" from the common center \"u\" of the circle. Using the polarization identity, these equations reduce to the condition that the matrix\n\nhas a nonzero kernel. Thus the circumcircle may alternatively be described as the locus of zeros of the determinant of this matrix:\n\nUsing cofactor expansion, let\n\nwe then have a|v| − 2Sv − \"b\" = 0 and, assuming the three points were not in a line (otherwise the circumcircle is that line that can also be seen as a generalized circle with S at infinity), , giving the circumcenter S/\"a\" and the circumradius . A similar approach allows one to deduce the equation of the circumsphere of a tetrahedron.\n\nA unit vector perpendicular to the plane containing the circle is given by\n\nHence, given the radius, \"r\", center, \"P\", a point on the circle, \"P\" and a unit normal of the plane containing the circle, formula_7, one parametric equation of the circle starting from the point \"P\" and proceeding in a positively oriented (i.e., right-handed) sense about formula_8 is the following:\n\nAn equation for the circumcircle in trilinear coordinates \"x\" : \"y\" : \"z\" is . An equation for the circumcircle in barycentric coordinates \"x\" : \"y\" : \"z\" is .\n\nThe isogonal conjugate of the circumcircle is the line at infinity, given in trilinear coordinates by and in barycentric coordinates by .\n\nAdditionally, the circumcircle of a triangle embedded in \"d\" dimensions can be found using a generalized method. Let A, B, and C be \"d\"-dimensional points, which form the vertices of a triangle. We start by transposing the system to place C at the origin: \n\nThe circumradius, \"r\", is then\nwhere \"θ\" is the interior angle between a and b. The circumcenter, \"p\", is given by\n\nThis formula only works in three dimensions as the cross product is not defined in other dimensions, but it can be generalized to the other dimensions by replacing the cross products with following identities:\n\nThe Cartesian coordinates of the circumcenter formula_14 are \n\nwith \n\nWithout loss of generality this can be expressed in a simplified form after translation of the vertex \"A\" to the origin of the Cartesian coordinate systems, i.e., when . In this case, the coordinates of the vertices and represent the vectors from vertex \"A\"′ to these vertices. Observe that this trivial translation is possible for all triangles and the circumcenter formula_17 of the triangle \"A\"′\"B\"′\"C\"′ follow as\n\nwith \n\nDue to the translation of vertex \"A\" to the origin, the circumradius \"r\" can be computed as\n\nwhere \"a\", \"b\", \"c\" are the lengths of the sides of the triangle and is the semiperimeter. The expression formula_21 above is the area of the triangle, by Heron's formula. Trigonometric expressions for the diameter of the circumcircle include\n\nThe triangle's nine-point circle has half the diameter of the circumcircle.\n\nIn any given triangle, the circumcenter is always collinear with the centroid and orthocenter. The line that passes through all of them is known as the Euler line.\n\nThe isogonal conjugate of the circumcenter is the orthocenter.\n\nThe useful minimum bounding circle of three points is defined either by the circumcircle (where three points are on the minimum bounding circle) or by the two points of the longest side of the triangle (where the two points define a diameter of the circle). It is common to confuse the minimum bounding circle with the circumcircle.\n\nThe circumcircle of three collinear points is the line on which the three points lie, often referred to as a \"circle of infinite radius\". Nearly collinear points often lead to numerical instability in computation of the circumcircle.\n\nCircumcircles of triangles have an intimate relationship with the Delaunay triangulation of a set of points.\n\nBy Euler's theorem in geometry, the distance between the circumcenter \"O\" and the incenter \"I\" is\n\nwhere \"r\" is the incircle radius and \"R\" is the circumcircle radius; hence the circumradius is at least twice the inradius (Euler's triangle inequality), with equality only in the equilateral case.\n\nThe distance between \"O\" and the orthocenter \"H\" is\n\nFor centroid \"G\" and nine-point center \"N\" we have\n\nThe product of the incircle radius and the circumcircle radius of a triangle with sides \"a\", \"b\", and \"c\" is\n\nWith circumradius \"R\", sides \"a\", \"b\", \"c\", and medians \"m\", \"m\", and \"m\", we have\n\nIf median \"m\", altitude \"h\", and internal bisector \"t\" all emanate from the same vertex of a triangle with circumradius \"R\", then\n\nCarnot's theorem states that the sum of the distances from the circumcenter to the three sides equals the sum of the circumradius and the inradius. Here a segment's length is considered to be negative if and only if the segment lies entirely outside the triangle.\n\nIf a triangle has two particular circles as its circumcircle and incircle, there exist an infinite number of other triangles with the same circumcircle and incircle, with any point on the circumcircle as a vertex. (This is the \"n\" = 3 case of Poncelet's porism). A necessary and sufficient condition for such triangles to exist is the above equality formula_29\n\nQuadrilaterals that can be circumscribed have particular properties including the fact that opposite angles are supplementary angles (adding up to 180° or π radians).\n\nFor a cyclic polygon with an odd number of sides, all angles are equal if and only if the polygon is regular. A cyclic polygon with an even number of sides has all angles equal if and only if the alternate sides are equal (that is, sides 1, 3, 5, ... are equal, and sides 2, 4, 6, ... are equal).\n\nA cyclic pentagon with rational sides and area is known as a Robbins pentagon; in all known cases, its diagonals also have rational lengths.\n\nIn any cyclic \"n\"-gon with even \"n\", the sum of one set of alternate angles (the first, third, fifth, etc.) equals the sum of the other set of alternate angles. This can be proven by induction from the \"n\"=4 case, in each case replacing a side with three more sides and noting that these three new sides together with the old side form a quadrilateral which itself has this property; the alternate angles of the latter quadrilateral represent the additions to the alternate angle sums of the previous \"n\"-gon.\n\nLet one \"n\"-gon be inscribed in a circle, and let another \"n\"-gon be tangential to that circle at the vertices of the first \"n\"-gon. Then from any point \"P\" on the circle, the product of the perpendicular distances from \"P\" to the sides of the first \"n\"-gon equals the product of the perpendicular distances from \"P\" to the sides of the second \"n\"-gon.\n\nLet a cyclic \"n\"-gon have vertices \"A\" , ..., \"A\" on the unit circle. Then for any point \"M\" on the minor arc \"A\"\"A\", the distances from \"M\" to the vertices satisfy\n\nAny regular polygon is cyclic. Consider a unit circle, then circumscribe a regular triangle such that each side touches the circle. Circumscribe a circle, then circumscribe a square. Again circumscribe a circle, then circumscribe a regular 5-gon, and so on. The radii of the circumscribed circles converge to the so-called \"polygon circumscribing constant\"\n\n. The reciprocal of this constant is the Kepler–Bouwkamp constant.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1926434", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926434", "title": "Cleveland State Community College", "text": "Cleveland State Community College\n\nCleveland State Community College is a public community college in Cleveland, Tennessee. It is operated by the Tennessee Board of Regents. Like most community colleges, emphasis is on associate's degree-level classes, but it also offers some third- and fourth-year college-level courses as well, through arrangements with other institutions.\n\nThe Tennessee Board of Education authorized the establishment of one of the first three community colleges in Tennessee on June 22, 1965. The name Cleveland State Community College was chosen by the board of education on February 11, 1966. Bids for the first five campus building were announced on July 20, 1966, and the school's campus broke ground on September 11, 1966. David F. Adkisson was named the first president on January 1, 1967. Approximately 700 students enrolled for the school's first classes which began on October 2, 1967 and took place at North Cleveland Baptist Church, due to a delay in the completion of the campus. At this time offices were held at 685 Broad Street N.W. in Downtown Cleveland. The move to the current campus and permanent facilities took place on January 3, 1968. At this time, the campus consisted of the Administration Building, Library, Science Building, Student Center, and Gymnasium. The official dedication ceremonies for the college took place on April 29, 1968. The first graduation ceremonies were conducted on June 1, 1969.\n\nThe sits on the eastern foot of Candies Creek Ridge in northern Cleveland near Interstate 75. The campus has 10 major buildings housing modern classrooms, laboratories, and student activity centers. Additional features include a library, a multi-media center of emphasis, computer laboratories, a 400-seat theatre, a 3,000-seat gymnasium, athletic fields and tennis courts, a large reflector telescope, and a satellite downlink receiver which enables the college to serve as a site for many teleconferences. Cleveland State offers classes throughout the service area in southeast Tennessee, which includes Bradley, Meigs, McMinn, Monroe, and Polk counties. The college also has offices and classrooms in Athens and Madisonville.\n\nCleveland State Community college operates within the governance of the Tennessee Board of Regents.\n\nDr. David F. Adkisson served as founding president of Cleveland State Community College from 1967 to 1978. Dr. L. Quentin Lane was appointed to the presidency in 1978 and served until 1985. A. Ray Coleman served briefly as interim president in 1985. Dr. James W. Ford was then appointed as president of Cleveland State from 1985 to 1992. Dr. Renate G. Basham served as interim president from 1992 to 1996. Dr. Carl M. Hite served as president from 1996 until 2013. The current president is Dr. William A. Seymour, who was hired in 2014.\n\nApproximately 3,700 credit students and 1,300 non-credit students enroll in Cleveland State Community College in a typical fall semester. The credit student population is split about evenly in the choice of transfer or career-technical programs. The average age of all students is 28 years and the student population is non-racially identifiable. There are over 200 employees at the college including more than 70 full-time faculty members. Eighty-six percent of the faculty hold Master's or Doctor's degrees.\n\nThe college athletic teams are nicknamed the Cougars.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1926438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926438", "title": "Stratfield Mortimer", "text": "Stratfield Mortimer\n\nStratfield Mortimer is a village and civil parish, just south of Reading, in the English ceremonial county of Berkshire and District (unitary authority area) of West Berkshire.\n\nThe south and south-east half of the parish consists of farms with a small percentage of woodland and is bisected towards the middle of the whole area by the Foudry Brook and adjacent Reading to Basingstoke Line (two tracks) which is more than 40% on raised embankments but in the far south is in a cutting. The north-east of the parish is the most populated: and is not so semi-rural or rural in density; it is the part more often colloquially called Mortimer. This more outlet- and amenity-served part, traditionally known as Mortimer Common, is at the top of the hill in Stratfield Mortimer civil parish. The northwestern 5% of the land is Mortimer Woods or common land which blends into Wokefield Common - Mortimer Woods has a set of Scheduled Ancient Monuments – one large, steep Bronze Age round barrow and three further smaller bowl barrows.\n\nThe linear village of Stratfield Mortimer climbs Mortimer Hill which rises westward from the Foudry Brook. It has no fixed formal or historic boundaries with Mortimer Common.\n\nThe south boundary (all but south-west, see the county boundary on the map shown above) is the straight footpath, the Devil's Highway, the eastern part of the Roman road from London to Bath, which is marked out today from Bagshot, Surrey to the best-preserved Roman Wall, ruins of town (such as amphitheatre) of Calleva Atrebatum in Silchester, south-west of the village.\n\nThe village includes the \"Cinnamon Tree\" Indian restaurant (formerly the \"Fox and Horn\" and prior to that, the \"Railway Inn\" public house), St Mary's Church of England parish church, Mortimer St Mary's Junior School and the headquarters of the Berkshire Federation of Women's Institutes. The Foudry Brook is crossed by a scenic Victorian bridge with footways known as Tun Bridge. The Lockram Brook flows through the middle of the parish and there is more than 10% woodland making up the parish open to the public under the Countryside and Rights of Way Act 2000 including Starvale Woods, Wokefield Common and Holden Firs.\n\nThe main settlement in this civil parish is Mortimer Common which has a surgery, dentist, a bank, pharmacy, a post office, Dads Shop (hardware), Budgens supermarket, McColls convenience store, travel agent, Chinese/fish and chips take away, the Church of England parish church of St John the Evangelist. Next to the church is St John's Infant School.\n\nThere are three pubs in Mortimer Common, each on one of the three main roads through the village: \"The Horse and Groom\" in The Street opposite Mortimer Fairground, \"The Victoria Arms\" in Victoria Road and \"The Turner's Arms\" in West End Road.\n\nA new Mortimer Community Hall with a cricket pavilion has been constructed on the common, it is available for hire. There is also the St. John's Hall, that houses the Mortimer Pre-School, holds amateur dramatic shows and is available for hire.\n\nBefore the mid-nineteenth century when parishes were only ecclesiastical, Stratfield Mortimer was a cross-county parish: the Hampshire part was known as Mortimer West End. It became in the Church of England an ecclesiastical parish in 1870, and acquired its own civil parish in 1894.\n\nA faint vestige of this is that Stratfield Mortimer ecclesiastical parish today includes Wokefield and a small uninhabited fraction of Mortimer West End.\n\nStratfield Mortimer is served by Mortimer railway station on the Reading to Basingstoke Line.\n\nBus information. Reading Buses run the Vitality 2 and 2a routes from Mortimer to Peppard Common via Burghfield, Reading Station & Sonning Common.\n\nMortimer Tennis club, play from 2 courts on the Fairground.<br>\nMortimer Cricket Club, play out of the Mortimer Community Hall on the \nFairground.<br>\nMortimer Football Club, play on the Alfred Palmer Memorial Field to the west of Mortimer, beside The Turners Arms<br>\nLocal golf club is at Wokefield Park\n"}
{"id": "1926443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926443", "title": "Naming convention (programming)", "text": "Naming convention (programming)\n\nIn computer programming, a naming convention is a set of rules for choosing the character sequence to be used for identifiers which denote variables, types, functions, and other entities in source code and documentation.\n\nReasons for using a naming convention (as opposed to allowing programmers to choose any character sequence) include the following:\n\n\nThe choice of naming conventions can be an enormously controversial issue, with partisans of each holding theirs to be the best and others to be inferior. Colloquially, this is said to be a matter of dogma. Many companies have also established their own set of conventions.\n\nSome of the potential benefits that can be obtained by adopting a naming convention include the following:\n\n\nThe choice of naming conventions (and the extent to which they are enforced) is often a contentious issue, with partisans holding their viewpoint to be the best and others to be inferior. Moreover, even with known and well-defined naming conventions in place, some organizations may fail to consistently adhere to them, causing inconsistency and confusion. These challenges may be exacerbated if the naming convention rules are internally inconsistent, arbitrary, difficult to remember, or otherwise perceived as more burdensome than beneficial.\n\nWell-chosen identifiers make it significantly easier for developers and analysts to understand what the system is doing and how to fix or extend the source code to apply for new needs.\n\nFor example, although the statement\n\nis syntactically correct, its purpose is not evident. Contrast this with:\n\nwhich implies the intent and meaning of the source code, at least to those familiar with the context of the statement.\n\nThe exact rules of a naming convention depend on the context in which they are employed. Nevertheless, there are several common elements that influence most if not all naming conventions in common use today.\n\nFundamental elements of all naming conventions are the rules related to identifier length (i.e., the finite number of individual characters allowed in an identifier). Some rules dictate a fixed numerical bound, while others specify less precise heuristics or guidelines.\n\nIdentifier length rules are routinely contested in practice, and subject to much debate academically.\n\nSome considerations:\n\nIt is an open research issue whether some programmers prefer shorter identifiers because they are easier to type, or think up, than longer identifiers, or because in many situations a longer identifier simply clutters the visible code and provides no perceived additional benefit.\n\nBrevity in programming could be in part attributed to:\n\nSome naming conventions limit whether letters may appear in uppercase or lowercase. Other\nconventions do not restrict letter case, but attach a well-defined interpretation based\non letter case. Some naming conventions specify whether alphabetic, numeric, or alphanumeric\ncharacters may be used, and if so, in what sequence.\n\nA common recommendation is \"Use meaningful identifiers.\" A single word may not be as meaningful, or specific, as multiple words. Consequently, some naming conventions specify rules for the treatment of \"compound\" identifiers containing more than one word.\n\nAs most programming languages do not allow whitespace in identifiers, a method of delimiting each word is needed (to make it easier for subsequent readers to interpret which characters belong to which word). Historically some early languages, notably FORTRAN (1955) and ALGOL (1958), allowed spaces within identifiers, determining the end of identifiers by context. This was abandoned in later languages due to the difficulty of tokenization. It is possible to write names by simply concatenating words, and this is sometimes used, as in codice_1 for Java package names, though legibility suffers for longer terms, so usually some form of separation is used.\n\nOne approach is to delimit separate words with a nonalphanumeric character. The two characters commonly used for this purpose are the hyphen (\"-\") and the underscore (\"_\"); e.g., the two-word name \"codice_2\" would be represented as \"codice_3\" or \"codice_4\". The hyphen is used by nearly all programmers writing COBOL (1959), Forth (1970), and Lisp (1958); it is also common in Unix for commands and packages, and is used in CSS. This convention has no standard name, though it may be referred to as \"lisp-case\" or \"COBOL-CASE\" (compare \"Pascal case\"), \"kebab-case\", \"brochette-case\", or other variants. Of these, \"kebab-case\", dating at least to 2012, has achieved some currency since.\n\nBy contrast, languages in the FORTRAN/ALGOL tradition, notably languages in the C and Pascal families, used the hyphen for the subtraction infix operator, and did not wish to require spaces around it (as free-form languages), preventing its use in identifiers. An alternative is to use underscores; this is common in the C family (including Python), with lowercase words, being found for example in \"The C Programming Language\" (1978), and has come to be known as snake case. Underscores with uppercase, as in UPPER_CASE, are commonly used for C preprocessor macros, hence known as MACRO_CASE, and for environment variables in Unix, such as BASH_VERSION in bash. Sometimes this is humorously referred to as SCREAMING_SNAKE_CASE.\n\nAnother approach is to indicate word boundaries using medial capitalization, called \"camelCase\", \"Pascal case\", and many other names, thus respectively rendering \"codice_2\" as \"codice_6\" or \"codice_7\". This convention is commonly used in Pascal, Java, C#, and Visual Basic. Treatment of initialisms in identifiers (e.g. the \"XML\" and \"HTTP\" in codice_8) varies. Some dictate that they be lowercased (e.g. codice_9) to ease typing and readability, whereas others leave them uppercased (e.g. codice_10) for accuracy.\n\nSome naming conventions represent rules or requirements that go beyond the requirements\nof a specific project or problem domain, and instead reflect a greater\noverarching set of principles defined by the software architecture, underlying programming language or other kind of cross-project methodology.\n\nPerhaps the most well-known is Hungarian notation, which encodes either the purpose (\"Apps Hungarian\") or the type (\"Systems Hungarian\") of a variable in its name. For example, the prefix \"sz\" for the variable szName indicates that the variable is a null-terminated string.\n\nA style used for very short (eight characters and less) could be: LCCIIL01, where LC would be the application (Letters of Credit), C for COBOL, IIL for the particular process subset, and the 01 a sequence number.\n\nThis sort of convention is still in active use in mainframes dependent upon JCL and is also seen in the 8.3 (maximum eight characters with period separator followed by three character file type) MS-DOS style.\n\nIBM's \"OF Language\" was documented in an IMS (Information Management System) manual.\n\nIt detailed the PRIME-MODIFIER-CLASS word scheme, which consisted of names like \"CUST-ACT-NO\" to indicate \"customer account number\".\n\nPRIME words were meant to indicate major \"entities\" of interest to a system.\n\nMODIFIER words were used for additional refinement, qualification and readability.\n\nCLASS words ideally would be a very short list of data types relevant to a particular application. Common CLASS words might be: NO (number), ID (identifier), TXT (text), AMT (amount), QTY (quantity), FL (flag), CD (code), W (work) and so forth. In practice, the available CLASS words would be a list of less than two dozen terms.\n\nCLASS words, typically positioned on the right (suffix), served much the same purpose as Hungarian notation prefixes.\n\nThe purpose of CLASS words, in addition to consistency, was to specify to the programmer the data type of a particular data field. Prior to the acceptance of BOOLEAN (two values only) fields, FL (flag) would indicate a field with only two possible values.\n\nAdobe's Coding Conventions and Best Practices suggests naming standards for ActionScript that are mostly consistent with those of ECMAScript. The style of identifiers is similar to that of Java.\n\nIn Ada, the only recommended style of identifiers is codice_11.\n\nIn APL dialects, the delta (Δ) is used between words, e.g. PERFΔSQUARE (no lowercase traditionally existed in older APL versions). If the name used underscored letters, then the delta underbar (⍙) would be used instead.\n\nIn C and C++, keywords and standard library identifiers are mostly lowercase. In the C standard library, abbreviated names are the most common (e.g. codice_12 for a function testing whether a character is alphanumeric), while the C++ standard library often uses an underscore as a word separator (e.g. codice_13). Identifiers representing macros are, by convention, written using only uppercase letters and underscores (this is related to the convention in many programming languages of using all-upper-case identifiers for constants). Names containing double underscore or beginning with an underscore and a capital letter are reserved for implementation (compiler, standard library) and should not be used (e.g. codice_14 or codice_15). This is superficially similar to stropping, but the semantics differ: the underscores are part of the value of the identifier, rather than being quoting characters (as is stropping): the value of codice_16 is codice_16 (which is reserved), not codice_18 (but in a different namespace).\n\nC# naming conventions generally follow the guidelines published by Microsoft for all .NET languages (see the .NET section, below), but no conventions are enforced by the C# compiler.\n\nThe Microsoft guidelines recommend the exclusive use of only PascalCase and camelCase, with the latter used only for method parameter names and method-local variable names (including method-local codice_19 values). A special exception to PascalCase is made for two-letter acronyms that begin an identifier; in these cases, both letters are capitalized (for example, codice_20); this is not the case for longer acronyms (for example, codice_21). The guidelines further recommend that the name given to an codice_22 be PascalCase preceded by the capital letter I, as in codice_23.\n\nThe Microsoft guidelines for naming fields are specific to codice_24, codice_25, and codice_26 fields; fields that are not codice_24 and that have other accessibility levels (such as codice_28 and codice_29) are explicitly not covered by the guidelines. The most common practice is to use PascalCase for the names of all fields, except for those which are codice_29 (and neither codice_19 nor codice_24), which are given names that use camelCase preceded by a single underscore; for example, codice_33.\n\nAny identifier name may be prefixed by the commercial-at symbol (@), without any change in meaning. That is, both codice_34 and codice_35 refer to the same object. By convention, this prefix is only used in cases when the identifier would otherwise be either a reserved keyword (such as codice_36 and codice_37), which may not be used as an identifier without the prefix, or a contextual keyword (such as codice_38 and codice_39), in which cases the prefix is not strictly required (at least not at its declaration; for example, although the declaration codice_40 is valid, this would typically be seen as codice_41 to indicate to the reader immediately that the latter is a variable name).\n\nIn Go, the convention is to use codice_42 or codice_43 rather than underscores to write multiword names. When referring to classes or functions, the first letter specifies the visibility for external packages. Making the first letter uppercase exports that piece of code, while lowercase makes it only usable within the current scope.\n\nIn Java, naming conventions for identifiers have been established and suggested by various Java communities such as Sun Microsystems, Netscape, AmbySoft, etc. A sample of naming conventions set by Sun Microsystems are listed below,\nwhere a name in \"CamelCase\" is one composed of a number of words joined without spaces, with each word's initial letter in capitals — for example \"CamelCase\".\n\nJava compilers do not enforce these rules, but failing to follow them may result in confusion and erroneous code. For example, codice_44 and codice_45 imply significantly different behaviours: codice_44 implies an invocation to method codice_47 in an instance named codice_48, whereas codice_45 implies an invocation to static method codice_47 in class codice_51.\nOne widely used Java coding style dictates that UpperCamelCase be used for classes and lowerCamelCase be used for instances and methods.\nRecognising this usage, some IDEs, such as Eclipse, implement shortcuts based on CamelCase. For instance, in Eclipse's content assist feature, typing just the upper-case letters of a CamelCase word will suggest any matching class or method name (for example, typing \"NPE\" and activating content assist could suggest codice_52).\n\nInitialisms of three or more letters are CamelCase instead of uppercase (e.g., codice_53 instead of codice_54). One may also set the boundary at two or more letters (e.g. codice_55).\n\nThe built-in JavaScript libraries use the same naming conventions as Java. Data types and constructor functions use upper camel case (RegExp, TypeError, XMLHttpRequest, DOMObject) and methods use lower camel case (getElementById, getElementsByTagNameNS, createCDATASection). In order to be consistent most JavaScript developers follow these conventions.\nSee also: Douglas Crockford's conventions\n\nCommon practice in most Lisp dialects is to use dashes to separate words in identifiers, as in codice_56 and codice_57. Dynamic variable names conventionally start and end with asterisks: codice_58. Constants names are marked by plus signs: codice_59.\n\nMicrosoft .NET recommends UpperCamelCase, also known as \"PascalCase\", for most identifiers. (lowerCamelCase is recommended for parameters and variables) and is a shared convention for the .NET languages. Microsoft further recommends that no type prefix hints (also known as Hungarian notation) are used. Instead of using Hungarian notation it is recommended to end the name with the base class' name; codice_60 instead of codice_61.\n\nObjective-C has a common coding style that has its roots in Smalltalk .\n\nTop-level entities, including classes, protocols, categories, as well as C constructs that are used in Objective-C programs like global variables and functions, are in UpperCamelCase with a short all-uppercase prefix denoting namespace, like NSString, UIAppDelegate, NSApp or CGRectMake. Constants may optionally be prefixed with a lowercase letter \"k\" like kCFBooleanTrue.\n\nInstance variables of an object use lowerCamelCase prefixed with an underscore, like _delegate and _tableView.\n\nMethod names use multiple lowerCamelCase parts separated by colons that delimit arguments, like: application:didFinishLaunchingWithOptions:, stringWithFormat: and isRunning.\n\nWirthian languages Pascal, Modula-2 and Oberon generally use codice_62 or codice_63 identifiers for programs, modules, constants, types and procedures, and codice_64 or codice_65 identifiers for math constants, variables, formal parameters and functions. While some dialects support underscore and dollar signs in identifiers, snake case and macro case is more likely confined to use within foreign API interfaces.\n\nPerl takes some cues from its C heritage for conventions. Locally scoped variables and subroutine names are lowercase with infix underscores. Subroutines and variables meant to be treated as private are prefixed with an underscore. Package variables are title cased. Declared constants are all caps. Package names are camel case excepting pragmata—e.g., codice_66 and codice_67—which are lowercase.\n\nPHP recommendations are contained in PSR-1 (PHP Standard Recommendation 1) and PSR-12. According to PSR-1, class names should be in PascalCase, class constants should be in MACRO_CASE, and method names should be in camelCase.\n\nPython and Ruby both recommend codice_63 for class names, codice_69 for constants, and codice_70 for other names.\n\nIn Python, if a name is intended to be \"private\", it is prefixed by an underscore. Private variables are enforced in Python only by convention. Names can also be suffixed with an underscore to prevent conflict with Python keywords. Prefixing with double underscores changes behaviour in classes with regard to name mangling. Prefixing \"and\" suffixing with double underscores are reserved for \"magic names\" which fulfill special behaviour in Python objects.\n\nRaku follows more or less the same conventions as Perl, except that it allows an infix hyphen – or an apostrophe ' (or single quote) within an identifier (but not two in a row), provided that it is followed by an alphabetic character. Raku programmers thus often use \"kebab case\" in their identifiers; for example, \ncodice_71 and codice_72 are valid identifiers.\nRust recommends codice_63 for type aliases and struct, trait, enum, and enum variant names, codice_69 for constants or statics, and codice_70 for other names.\n\nSwift has shifted its naming conventions with each individual release. However a major update with Swift 3.0 stabilised the naming conventions for codice_65 across variables and function declarations. Constants are usually defined by enum types or constant parameters that are also written this way. Class and other object type declarations are codice_63.\n\nAs of Swift 3.0 there have been made clear naming guidelines for the language in an effort to standardise the API naming and declaration conventions across all third party APIs. \n\n"}
{"id": "1926445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926445", "title": "Pietro Ingrao", "text": "Pietro Ingrao\n\nPietro Ingrao (30 March 1915 – 27 September 2015) was an Italian politician, journalist who participated in the resistance movement. For many years he was a senior figure in the Italian Communist Party (PCI).\n\nIngrao was born at Lenola, in the province of Latina.\n\nAs a student he was a member of GUF (Gruppo Universitario Fascista) and won a \"Littoriale\" of culture and art.\n\nIngrao joined the PCI in 1940 and took part in the anti-fascist resistance during World War II. After the war, he led the Marxist-Leninist tendency in the party, representing its left wing. This led him to frequent political differences with Giorgio Amendola, leader of the social democratic tendency.\n\nIngrao was a Member of Parliament continuously from 1950 to 1992. In 1947–1957, he was editor-in-chief of the party newspaper, \"L'Unità\". He was the first Communist to become President of the Italian Chamber of Deputies, a position he held from 1976 to 1979.\n\nAfter PCI's then-secretary Achille Occhetto, in what was called the \"Svolta della Bolognina\", decided to change the party's name, Ingrao become his main internal opponent. In the PCI's 20th Congress of 1991, he joined the reformist majority in its successor, the Democratic Party of the Left (PDS), but soon left the group. After the European elections of 2004, he abandoned PDS and adhered (as an independent) to the more hardline successor to the old PCI, the Communist Refoundation Party.\n\nHe has written a number of poems and political essays. His most important work is \"Appuntamenti di fine secolo\" (\"Rendez-vous at the end of the century\"), published in 1995 in collaboration with Rossana Rossanda.\n\nIngrao was an atheist. He married , who died in 2003. Ingrao died on September 27, 2015 at the age of 100.\n"}
{"id": "1926449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926449", "title": "Kurt Held", "text": "Kurt Held\n\nKurt Kläber (4 November 1897 in Jena, Germany – 9 December 1959 in Sorengo, Switzerland) was a Jewish Communist and writer displaced from Germany during the Second World War. He has also been published under the pseudonym Kurt Held. He married writer Lisa Tetzner.\n\nKläber left school at the age of 14 and began training as a locksmith and later trained to be a mechanic at Zeiss. He joined the Wandervogelbewegung and traveled through many countries of Europe. World War I broke out and put an end to his travels.\nIn 1914 he joined the German Army and fought in World War I, where he was wounded and contracted typhoid fever.\n\nUpon returning from the war he joined the Communist Party of Germany (KPD) and the Spartakusbund. He participated in armed uprisings in Halle, Hamburg and Berlin as well as in the strike against the Kapp-Putsch.\nHe earned his living as a traveling book salesmen for the Thüringen Ministry of Culture, specializing in political literature: social critical lyrics, as well as novels depicting the hardships of the working class. He published his first volume of workers poetry “Neue Saat” (new seed) in 1919.\nIn 1923 he traveled to the USA and spent a year touring, giving lectures and studying the situation of workers in the USA. His experiences in the USA became his first novel written in 1923, which wasn't published until 1927 “Passagiere der III. Klasse” (Third Class Passengers).\nBack in Germany in 1924 he married the writer and professional storyteller Lisa Tetzner. Together they traveled promoting communist literature. In addition to writing, giving lectures and editing magazines and books Kläber also worked in mines near Köln, as well as other jobs to aid his understanding of the working class laborers. He joined the Bund proletarisch-revolutionäre Schriftsteller (the Association of Proletarian-Revolutionary Authors) and was one of the publishers of the journal regularly sent to their members, Linkskurve. Kläber gained a reputation as a leading authority on Communist literature.\nAs a known opponent of National Socialism, he was arrested the day after the Reichstag fire and incarcerated. With the help of his wife, he was soon released from prison and sent into exile over Austria to Carona in Ticino in neutral Switzerland.\n\nIn 1938 he left the KPD as a reaction to Stalinism.\n\nWith the encouragement of his wife, Lisa, Kläber devoted himself to writing. The conditions of his exile prohibited him from publishing under his own name, so he adopted the pseudonym Kurt Held. He saw children as the true victims of war, class struggle and injustice. His books portrayed children realistically and conveyed messages of morality.\nHis greatest success \"The Outsiders of Oskoken Castle\" was soon followed by similar books about working class children: “Der Trommler von Faido” (The Drummer of Faido), “Matthias und seine Freunde” (Matthias and his Friends) and the four volume series “Giuseppe und Maria”.\n\nHe died in exile on 9 December 1959 in Sorengo, Switzerland from the consequences of the typhoid fever he contracted in World War I.\n\n\nhttps://web.archive.org/web/20191023105744/http://www.buchstart.ch/de/autoren/Held_Kurt/214.html\nhttps://web.archive.org/web/20110510020002/http://www.mdr.de/geschichte-mitteldeutschlands/reise/personen/132251.html\n"}
{"id": "1926450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926450", "title": "Tin can telephone", "text": "Tin can telephone\n\nA tin can telephone is a type of acoustic (non-electrical) speech-transmitting device made up of two tin cans, paper cups or similarly shaped items attached to either end of a taut string or wire.\n\nIt is a particular case of mechanical telephony, where sound (i.e., vibrations in the air) is converted into vibrations along liquid or solid medium. These vibrations are transmitted along the medium and then reconverted back to sound. In the case of tin can telephone the medium is a string.\n\nBefore the invention of the electromagnetic telephone, there were mechanical acoustic devices for transmitting spoken words and music over a distance greater than that of normal speech. The very earliest mechanical telephones were based on sound transmission through pipes or other physical media, and among the very earliest experiments were those conducted by the British physicist and polymath Robert Hooke from 1664 to 1685. From 1664 to 1665 Hooke experimented with sound transmission through a taut distended wire. An acoustic string phone is attributed to him as early as 1667.\n\nThe highly similar acoustic tin can telephone, or 'lover's phone', has also been known for centuries. It connects two diaphragms with a taut string or wire, which transmits sound by mechanical vibrations from one to the other along the wire (and not by a modulated electric current). The classic example is the children's toy made by connecting the bottoms of two paper cups, metal cans, or plastic bottles with tautly held string. \n\nFor a short period of time acoustic telephones were marketed commercially as a niche competitor to the electrical telephone, as they preceded the latter's invention and didn't fall within the scope of its patent protection. When Alexander Graham Bell's telephone patent expired and dozens of new phone companies flooded the marketplace, acoustic telephone manufacturers could not compete commercially and quickly went out of business. Their maximum range was very limited, but hundreds of technical innovations (resulting in about 300 patents) increased their range to approximately a half mile (800 m) or more under ideal conditions. An example of one such company was Lemuel Mellett’s 'Pulsion Telephone Supply Company' of Massachusetts, which designed its version in 1888 and deployed it on railroad right-of-ways, purportedly with a range of .\n\nIn the centuries before tin cans and paper cups became commonplace, other cups were used and the device was sometimes called the \"lovers' telephone\". During the 20th century, it came into common use in preschools and elementary schools to teach children about sound vibration.\n\nWhen the string is pulled taut and someone speaks into one of the cans, its bottom acts as a diaphragm, converting the sound waves into longitudinal mechanical vibrations which vary the tension of the string. These variations in tension set up longitudinal waves in the string which travel to the second can, causing its bottom to vibrate in a similar manner as the first can, thus recreating the sound, which is heard by the second person.\n\nThe signal can be directed around corners with at least two methods: The first method can be implemented by creating a loop in the string which is then twisted and anchored to another object. Another method makes use of an extra can positioned on the apex of the corner; the string is threaded through the base of the can so as to avoid coming into contact with the object around which the signal is to be directed. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1926452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926452", "title": "Upper Lambourn", "text": "Upper Lambourn\n\nUpper Lambourn is a small village in the county of Berkshire, England. The village is situated in the civil parish of Lambourn , and is 1.2 miles (2 km) to the north-west of the village of Lambourn, just off the Lambourn to Shrivenham road. The parish is within the district of West Berkshire, close to the point where the counties of Berkshire, Oxfordshire and Wiltshire meet.\n\nUpper Lambourn has several sites of Special Scientific Interest (SSSI) near the village, these include the famous prehistoric Seven Barrows. Other sites of SSSI near the village are Croker's Hole, Parkfarm Down and Fognam Chalk Quarry. Ashdown House, of which part of the grounds is also an SSSI, lies approximately to the north-west, on the Shrivenham road.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1926454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926454", "title": "Ripacandida", "text": "Ripacandida\n\nRipacandida is a town and \"comune\" in the province of Potenza, in the Southern Italian region of Basilicata. It is bounded by the comuni of Atella, Barile, Filiano, Forenza, Ginestra, Rionero in Vulture.\n\nThe study of the necropolis, seventh-fifth century BC shows that the settlement belongs to a cultural center north of Lucania. It is located near a tributary of the broad stream 'Ofanto and spread on top and on the terraces along the slopes of the hill. In the center is implanted ceramic workshops specialized in the production of decorated vases subgeometrica, or complex decorative motifs, including the human figure appears.\n\nA notable jug found in a female burial of the fifth century BC, has a sphere enclosing a lightning bolt on which there is a stylized human figure in mourning, surrounded by seven stars, now in the National Archaeological Museum of Melfi. This scene leads to the philosophical doctrines of Pythagoras, who had started a school at the same time to Metaponto and which were among his disciples some aristocratic figures of the ancient inland territories of Basilicata.\n\nThe ancient village of Ripacandida is organized to scattered groups of inhabited alternating with empty spaces and burials. Of note, always in a female burial, the fermatrecce are very elaborate, consisting of a double wire wrapped in multiple turns and found only a few kits Basilicata inside. Remains of a Roman aqueduct are visible near the broad stream.\n\nRipacandida looks like a neat little town perched on the cliff which dominates the large valleys that surround it, made of whitewashed houses. It stands on one of the many hills in the Vulture, the vast region that stretches south of the river Ofanto (which forms the natural border of the northern Basilicata), region of deep-rooted origins history that is called Melfi. It extends along the slopes of volcanic of Vulture and is a large sub-area of Basilicata region, characterized by the cultivation and production of grapes \"Aglianico, which gives its name to one of the most renowned regional wines and appreciated, the\"'Aglianico del Vulture\", precisely. Ripacandida rises from the rock on which you can enjoy the scenery as far as the eye can see, huge and impressive, while walking through the narrow streets of the main street, peering in the direction of the Vulture can be seen in all her radiant beauty, especially in light of the reddish clear summer sunsets, this mountain almost \"magic\" that dominates the landscape to north-west.\n\nThe archaeological survey of the years 1977–80 due to the antiquity of Ripacandida the seventh century BC, but by the end of the nineteenth century historian Lucan Michele Lacava found some caves dating archeolitica and floor mosaics at the foot of Ripacandida.\nThe Greek historians (Aristotle, Timaeus, and Antiochus of Syracuse) cite as \"Enotria\" contemporary Basilicata. From\"Geography\"of Strabo we learn that \"before the arrival of the Greeks on the Ionian coast of Basilicata, and there were Choni Enotri.\nThe second Oenotrian Dionysius of Halicarnassus descended from Oenotrus, originating from the mythical hero 'Arcadia who arrived around 1800 BC, subjugated the indigenous plant and viticulture. His successor, Italy became farmers, pastoralists, instituting the \"Syssitia\". Later the region was occupied by Samnites, populations Osco-Samnite from which descend the Luciani. They descended from the mountains of Sannio and in several waves occupied the peninsula. They practiced \"sacred spring\": when the population grew a group of young people choose a symbol (Totem) and partly in search of new lands. It was a nation of proud warriors, powerful enough to bind the Roman army for fifty years. Rome suffered the humiliation of defeat at the Caudine Forks, and then reorganize the army and crush the Sunnis. The Romanization of the region came with the transfer of 20 000 settlers, was born near Venus, in 291 BC Sunnis are descended from many other ethnic groups: the Hirpini, the Caudini, the Bruttii etc. The Luke Society is organized into tribes, each with its own head i \"Meddices\" who are elected annually. All are expected to participate in community life, everything is divided equally. Federation linked by a bond, in case of war, elect a head of the basileus \". The ancient town of Ripacandida Web site was more important than Serra di Vaglio (Vaglio Basilicata) a few miles from power. The Lucan through rivers: Basento, Bradano, Agri and Sinni traded with the Greek cities (Metaponto, Siris, Heraclea). The Sele and 'Ofanto allow access to both sides: the Adriatic and Tyrrhenian. Dialect idiom (true linguistic island in the neighborhood) we find the root of many words with the Oscan of Greek origin. Oral tradition says that the city was built by the Romans under the name \"Candida Latinorum\" (remains of Roman aqueduct). Some scholars believe the name is given by the white color of the hill. The modern town dates from the time of invasions Gothic, when the inhabitants moved from the valley on the hill, and build their houses around the temple dedicated to Jupiter (present castle-Church mother). I Lombard the fortified walls interspersed with towers. Undergoing the various dominations arrive at the first written sources of the XI-XII sec. The papal bull Eugenius III (1152) decreed the construction of the churches of San Donato (the only one that still exists), San Pietro, San Zaccaria, San Gregorio. Participates in the First Crusade. And is registered in the Catalogue of the Barons with thirteen nobles, headed by the overlord Roger Marescalco to participate in the Third Crusade to William the Good (1188–1198). A Roberto Ripacandida of Frederick II in charge of guarding prisoners of Lombardy, the region will be called after Massa Lombarda (now Ginestra). Change number of feudal lords, Caracciolo Grimaldi of Monaco, Boccapianola Tironi, the last owner is the Duke Mazzacara (1806). A first colony Albanian refugees in 1482 is housed in a suburban area called Canton and later moved to Massa Lombarda. On 5 October 1571 share in the victory Battle of Lepanto with a large number of citizens including Gianlorenzo Lioy. Between five hundred and seven hundred is home to a study of Theology. In April 1861, sided with the robbers led by Carmine Crocco, on this occasion there was the first victim: the National Guard captain Michael Anastasia. He also had fierce brigands Turtoro, Di Biase, Larotonda.\n\nAt the end of the 19th century, the inhabitants of Ripacandida started immigrating in search of a better future, first to Altoona, Pennsylvania and then on to Blue Island, Illinois. Two sons of immigrants from Ripacandida in Blue Island have become famous: boxer Tony Musto, who fought Joe Louis for the World Heavyweight Title on 8 April 1941 and Gary Sinise, an award-winning actor, musician and director, who co-founded Chicago's Steppenwolf Theater Company. In memory of the traditions in Ripacandida, the town of Blue Island celebrates Saint Donatus of Arezzo with its Feast of St. Donatus every year in August. The Nobel Prize in Physics in 1997 was awarded to William Donald Phillips of Pennsylvania, whose mother was born in Ripacandida in 1913 and moved to the United States in 1920.\n\nDuring the 1940s, Ripacandida was suffering under the wrath of Benito Mussolini. Many of the residents had to find shelter or stay in nearby caves. The Nazis circled all around the town to find all of the Jewish folk. Some died even if they were not Jewish, but died if they were crippled, had dark hair/dark eyes, and were a different culture besides European.\n\nFrom the 1980s to the early 2000s, German anthropologist Thomas Hauschild (member of the Heidelberg Academy of Sciences and chair in the dpt. for social anthropology at the University at Halle/Saale, Germany) used to document extensively religious and political life in Ripacandida and surroundings. In this, he was supported by many protagonists from the local population, including Michele Ciccarella, Carmela \"Quartariegg'\" Carlucci Perretta, Vito Gioiosa, Luigi \"Ginetto\" Gilio, and many others. His findings were edited in the form of numerous articles in scientific journals and in his book \"Magie und Macht in Italien\" (2002), translated into English by Jeremy Gaines (\"Power and Magic in Italy\", London and New York, Berghahn publishers, 2011).\nIn 2009, Thomas Hauschild accompanied the famous art historian Hans Belting (Order Pour le Mérite of Arts and Sciences, Berlin and Dumbarton Oaks Institute, Harvard U.) to Ripacandida. On behalf of the local \"Pro Loco\" association (Gerardo Cripezzi, Luigi Gilio and others), Hans Belting evaluated the frescoes at the San Donato church at Ripacandida and attested to their extraordinary value as a monument in the history of arts. Following Belting, the frescoes reflect impressively periods of peace and unrest, of earthquake and new economic development in the small Lucanian centre. In this occasion, Hans Belting accepted the regional award \"Fede e Arte\" from the local UNESCO committee and from the Pro Loco. in a highly acclaimed speech, Hans Belting attested for the many \"secrets\" still hidden in these frescoes for future research.\n\nGreek: Burnt by Braccos: hoarseness; Airale: sieve that is used to cleanse the grain from Aire: I choose; Alerta: stand on Aertao: I exalt; Arrampaggio: Harpagus robbery with violence: robbery; Ammannati Amenenoo by: soon weakens; Arrappato: folds from Raptiva, I patch; Arrociliare: enveloped by Kule: vulgar or deception; Ascimo: unfermented bread; Atta'ne: Tata-father from Atta: pater; Butter: a young peasant from Boter: shepherd Cacone: deep hole by Kao: opening; Calanca: landslide Kala-Ekalaca: drop; Calandra: The lark from Akalantis; Kalavroje: Scaravaggi daKarabos; Calamastra: opener hanging on the iron stove, Karusi: haircut Keiro: I cut ; Kataratta: hatch Kata: downward '; Kotor: capers! by Katara, Centrino: Kitri from yellow cedar; Kiatto: big and fat; Cozzetto: occiput from Kotido; CuCl: cakes to Kuklos: circle, Enchire: empire from Egketo: breathe; : desert place: from Eremos-desert; Fomiero: manure; Ravine: water that is poured; Engineer: start using; Isc'i: entry mulattirer; Lagana: Lasagna; Langella: pot of water; Maca'ri God! exclamation; Mara me (bad omen); Maruca: snail; Matreia: stepmother; Mattoli: bundle; Menace: throw by Amun: reject, mingling: small; Mollica: the pith of bread Montone: pile; Morra of sheep flock sheep; Musco: humerus of the body; madness: jokes from Pazio: game; Pernecocca: apricot; Lace: ends; Pruna: plum tree; Quatrala: nubile young girl from Korah and girl-girl Talis; Racana: fabric due; Burr; root; Ranfa: claws of animals, Rasco-scratch: scratch; Rosica: nibble; Rummolo: rounded stone; Salma: soma; Scania loaf of bread; Sceppa: rip; Skizo: drop; Silk: sieve; Sfizio: wishful thinking; Scitt: hunting cats; Sterpone: old tree; Strambo: Crank brain Strummolo: top; Tallo: bud; Tann: then; Tarocciola: pulley; Traccheggiare: hold off; Tumpagno: bottom of the barrel; Tupputi Tupputi: to beat door Turso: core of the cabbage; Tuzzolare: knock on the door; Vallone: narrow ditch; Brag: apron: Launch: Opening; Visciole: vesicles; Zimmari: the goat; Zitella: servant; Zito: husband. The Greek words are transcribed in English letters.\nOn the deep influence of Albanic language on the local dialect see also: https://web.archive.org/web/20111011091746/http://contrasto.de/lucano.htm and .\nMuch vocabulary in the local dialects at Ripacandia -and in Northern Lucania in general -is also deduced from the Arabic language, for example \"vadone\" from \"al wadi\" for \"river stream\". See: Bigalke, Rainer: \"Dizionario dialettale della basilicata|Con un breve saggio della fonetica, un'introduzione sulla storia dei dialetti lucani e note etimologiche\", Muenster, 1980. German linguist Bigalke did his fieldwork in the 1980s all over the Basilicata and shortly also at Ripacandida.\n\nThe center of town has architecture of mainly the 18th and 19th century. The exception is the Casa Lioy, a palace built in 1089 with subsequent reconstructions.\n\n\nThe interior has a chapel of the sacrament by Giovanni Battista Rossi, who also completed the polychrome marble balustrade of the presbytery. In four columns of the balustrades are bas- reliefs of the Passion of Christ. The sacristy houses a \"Pietà\" by Christian Danone and a \"St. Bartholomew\" by Gaetano Recco.\n\n\nAt the entrance from the north-east up area there is the ancient shrine of San Donato by Ripacandida, patron of the town, with its paintings of 1500 and its millennial history. The adjacent \"villa\", the churchyard behind the millennial center of pilgrimage, contains meticulously cultivated trees that derive from the 16th century or earlier.\nThe local feast of Saint Donatus (5–7 August) is one of the oldest and most beautiful festivals of saints of the Basilicata, showing still remnants of authentic old folk customs.\nThe shrine, one of the most famous of Basilicata, is affiliated with the church of San Francesco in Assisi and received the gift of a relic of the patron saint of Italy.\nIn December 2010, the sanctuary gets from 'UNESCO recognition of Monumento a messenger of peace culture to the profound spiritual values that for centuries forward.\n\nOne of the natural beauty of the wood is Ripacandida, though little appreciated.\nCalled the Great Forest, perhaps because it was originally more of a big region. One of the few residues of the immense forests that covered the Lucania (for Latin lucus = wood), now much reduced as a result of uncontrolled cuts. Composed of tall trees such as oaks, cedars, etc.. For centuries it has employed, fed and warm during the cold winters of the population Ripacandida and neighboring countries.\nThe peasants, including women fearless and courageous, they went to the woods to cut and then sell what was called a \"body\" of wood. Uploaded on mules, was brought to sell in neighboring countries. Refuge and breeding herds, during the so-called \"transhumance\", which used the forest as a resting place for their long journeys. Also has a construction called \"mansions\" and \"pile\" that is, drinking troughs for animals. During the robbery, was a refuge for the robbers, who used the many caves to avoid capture.\n\nThe pine forest was planted in the late fifties to the base and on the slopes of the hill on which stands Ripacandida. On fire repeatedly over the years, resistant in some areas, where she grew lush and precisely to the base and side Rionero. Since 2006, (i.e. since the Fonti del Vulture were bought by a famous multinational company), we see in the spot of 'Water Lily where it makes a fine show.\n\nOne of the favorite pastimes ripacandidesi, especially by men, was the game of Morra. During the long winter evenings but also to distract them from the drudgery of the fields two or more people are delighted to \"guess the sum of the fingers shown in the game for two players.\" The winner was a good shot of \"Aglianico\". The first news of the game of Morra date back to ancient Egypt, but probably were the Roman soldiers to spread in Italy, because it was very common in ancient Rome. The success of the game is because it only requires the use of hands, a game so that you can play everywhere, poor but not simple, requiring skill and intelligence. The player must think in fractions of a second in two ways: to predict the opponent's game and never play the numbers that you expect your opponent. In recent years, associations have been created at national level who seek to take up the slack. Today, the Morra has become a rarely practiced custom.\n\nThe characteristic shape braided bread traditionally prepared for the Passover is called \"\"rucilatieggh\"\". Do not know the origin of the custom of the Easter bread, unique among other things, because neighboring countries does not exist. Prepared by the good housewife, was then baked in the houses, each house had its oven.\n\"I rucilatieggh\" were prepared from a dough of flour, oil, water, fennel seeds, eggs, salt and baking powder and then polished with egg yolk. The tradition continues in the bakery who prepare for Tuesday and Friday.\n\nTraditionally every house had Ripacandida the oven for baking bread, which had a high form of bread similar to matter. The bread was baked once placed in the cupboard, which was also used for mixing, 'lu'mpasta'pan'. In every kitchen there was this piece of furniture that was in the form of a box: two doors, two drawers and upper compartment with hinged lid flare. After the fifties, retired skilled tradesmen all the antique furniture in exchange for plastic containers. To the cry of 'mobil'viecch' reaping what to ripacandidesi no longer needed, then restore them and sell them at high prices.\n\n\nFestivities in honor of saints:\n\nMayor Vito Antonio Remollino from 2013\n\nRipacandida is twinned with \n\nIn addition, Ripacandida has signed a friendship agreement with: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1926462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926462", "title": "Brian Molony", "text": "Brian Molony\n\nBrian Molony is a Canadian self-admitted compulsive former gambler from Toronto, famous for embezzling millions from the Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, the second-largest bank in Canada, to feed his personal gambling habit.\n\nMolony, who had developed a passion for the race-track and gambling from the age of ten years, and acted as a bookie for his school-mates, graduated from the University of Western Ontario in London with a degree in journalism. Initially planning to be a financial writer, he did so well in a Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce (CIBC) aptitude test that he was put in their management-training program and hired right out of university. Molony spent a few weeks as a teller before working in savings, current accounts, foreign exchange and loan accounting, then \"floating\" among some of the bank's huge network of some 1,600 branches, which gave him a further broad exposure to the bank's highly regimented workings and familiarity with its systems and internal weaknesses. On a modest annual salary of about $10,000, Molony led an unassuming lifestyle in Toronto, wearing inexpensive, ill-fitting clothes and leaving carefully calculated seven percent tips in restaurants. At the same time, he was embezzling $10.2 million from CIBC to feed his gambling habit, writing loans in the names of both real and fictitious companies. Molony was then able to transfer millions of dollars out of the bank through a company called California Clearing Corp., a wholly owned subsidiary of Desert Palace, a Las Vegas casino. This corporation's only purpose was to let people deposit sums of money into the casino without detection.\nMolony was arrested on April 27, 1982, the day after he lost a million dollars at the tables at Caesars Atlantic City Hotel-Casino. Caesars claimed that it never asked Molony for personal or credit information, yet admitted in court to supplying him with tens of thousands of dollars' worth of hotel rooms and a private Learjet to travel to and from Las Vegas and Atlantic City.\n\nMolony pleaded guilty to embezzlement in November 1983, and served two-and-half years in prison, although some sources claim that he served six years. On release, he agreed to a program of restitution and community service, which includes public speaking about the compulsion of gambling. Molony is now married with children, and works as a business consultant.\n\nA federal lawsuit, filed by the CIBC in 1982, contended that Caesars officials induced Molony to gamble even though they knew—or should have known—that the money could not possibly have been his. CIBC's counsel initially stated that he hoped to recover some $4,732,000 that Molony lost at Caesars from February 7, 1981 to April 23, 1982; the terms of the settlement are private. As part of an agreement between the casino and the state Division of Gaming Enforcement, Caesars was forced to close for a day on November 30, the Saturday after Thanksgiving, as a disciplinary measure. The New Jersey Casino Control Commission also levied $36,500 in fines against six Caesars employees. Industry analysts estimated that the casino stood to lose between $700,000 and $800,000 because of the shutdown.\n\nGary Stephen Ross's best-selling non-fiction book \"Stung\" chronicles Molony's 18 months of increasingly brazen fraud and out-of-control gambling. The movie \"Owning Mahowny\" was based on Ross's book. Philip Seymour Hoffman played \"Dan Mahowny\", the character based on Molony.\n"}
{"id": "1926472", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926472", "title": "Anuppur", "text": "Anuppur\n\nAnuppur is a town in northeastern Madhya Pradesh state of central India. It is the administrative headquarters of the Anuppur tehsil and Anuppur District. Previously, it was in Shahdol district.\n\nAnuppur is located at . It has an average elevation of 505 metres (1,656 feet). The Son River and some of its tributaries run through Anuppur.\nAccording to 2001 Census, the total population of Anuppur District is 667155, out of which 309624 are Scheduled tribes and 48376 are\nScheduled castes. In this manner, Anuppur District is a tribal dominated district.\n\n India census, Anuppur district has a population of 749,521. 2001 to 2011 population growth rate is 12.3%. Males constitute 52% of the population and females 48%.\n\n"}
{"id": "1926476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926476", "title": "Badíʻ", "text": "Badíʻ\n\nBadíʻ (‎ 18521869) was the title of Mírzá Áqá Buzurg-i-Nishapuri, also known by the title the Pride of Martyrs. He was the son of ʻAbdu'l-Majid-i-Nishapuri, a follower of the Báb and Baháʼu'lláh.\n\nBadíʻ is most famous for being the bearer of a tablet written by Baháʼu'lláh to Nasiri'd-Din Shah, for which he was tortured and killed at the age of 17. He is also one of the foremost Apostles of Baháʼu'lláh.\n\nThe \"Kitáb-i-Badíʻ\", a book written by Baháʼu'lláh, has no relation to the Badíʻ of this article.\n\nAlthough Badíʻ's father was a Baháʼí, Badí was originally not touched by the new religion. He was an unruly and rebellious youth, and his father described him as the \"despair of the family\". It was upon a meeting with Nabíl-i-Aʻzam that Badíʻ heard a poem by Baháʼu'lláh and began weeping. After finishing his studies, he gave away his possessions and set out on foot for Baghdad, where a significant number of Baháʼís were under persecution. Finally he set out on foot from Mosul through Baghdad to the prison city of ʻAkka.\n\nAs guards protected against Baháʼís entering ʻAkka, Badí dressed as a water-carrier and slipped by the guards, and then proceeded to a mosque, where he recognized ʻAbdu'l-Bahá and gave him a note. Badíʻ received two interviews with Baháʼu'lláh, and requested that he deliver the Lawh-i-Sultán, Baháʼu'lláh's tablet to Nasiri'd-Din Shah. He received the tablet in Haifa to avoid being caught by Ottoman officials. From there he travelled on foot for four months to Tehran. Along the way he was reported to \"be full of joy, laughter, gratitude and forbearance, walking around one hundred paces then leaving the road and turning to face ʻAkká. He would then prostrate himself and say: 'O God, that which you have bestowed upon me through Your bounty, do not take back through Your justice; rather grant me strength to safeguard it'\".\n\nAfter three days of fasting, Badíʻ went to the Shah's summer camp, and the Shah came upon him while hunting in the woods. Badíʻ approached the monarch with respect and calmly said: \"O King! I have come to thee from Sheba with a weighty message\". Badíʻ was arrested, branded for three successive days, his head beaten to a pulp with the butt of a rifle, after which his body was thrown into a pit and earth and stones heaped upon it.\n\nA particularly famous picture of Badíʻ exists, taken at the Shah's request, where he is in chains during his torture, showing no emotion.\n\nThe 85-year-old grandfather of Badíʻ, Haji Abdu'l-Majid, a survivor of the \nBattle of Fort Tabarsi, was also killed. According to Shoghi Effendi:\n\nAfter the martyrdom of his son, [Haji Abdu'l-Majid] had visited Baháʼu'lláh and returned afire with zeal to Khurasan, [where he] was ripped open from waist to throat, and his head exposed on a marble slab to the gaze of a multitude of insulting onlookers, who, after dragging his body ignominiously through the bazaars, left it at the morgue to be claimed by his relatives.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1926478", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926478", "title": "Leckhampstead, Berkshire", "text": "Leckhampstead, Berkshire\n\nLeckhampstead is a village and civil parish in West Berkshire, England in the North Wessex Downs.\n\nLeckhampstead Thicket has a high proportion of its buildings that are thatched cottages and has a chapel, dated 1874, that is one of few active 'Primitive Methodist' chapels. A road and boundary stone in Leckhampstead, the Hangman's Stone and Hangman's Stone Lane, are named after a telling of a man who roped and carried a sheep from a farm in Leckhampstead around his neck (to steal it) but which strangled him after he stopped and slept. After a long hiatus the area returned to full village status in 1864. Its hamlet of Hill Green has six listed buildings and the amenities of the village include a public house, church and village hall.\n\nThe village is in the North Wessex Downs at all points a few miles north of the M4 motorway. It has within 400 metres east of its main residential area, which is a linear development, the B road between Newbury ( SSE) and Wantage ( NNW). Most of the land is agricultural with a few woodlands, particularly along the northern border where elevation exceeds 170m above sea level. There are several winterbournes that flow in the winter in this area. The land being on considerable proportions of chalk in its soil most of the natural drainage is subterranean, which is borne out by the detailed land survey by the Office of National Statistics having been unable to identify any water at the surface. A village of more than 2500 people and with more amenities is concentrated three miles south-east at Chieveley.\n\nBus 107 connects Newbury which is a major stop on an east-west coach route and railway, the London to Exeter (via Taunton) Line.\n\nThe M4 motorway has a junction within of the parish and two almost straight roads lead towards the south and north in this parish.\n\nSarsen stones, Bronze Age features, are in the bounds of Leckhampstead at Hill Green and a flint arrowhead of this period has been found. A small round barrow is in the south-east.\n\nRoman finds include a 2nd-century earring and Samian ware.\n\nA church dedicated in 1050 (for most centuries of its existence a chapel under the vicar of Chieveley) has been recorded about east of the present church on the site of Chapel Farm. Therefore, administratively until 1835, when it gained a civil parish council this area was part of the parish of Chieveley.\n\nEcclesiastical affairs having been divorced from the state at the local level about this time, in 1884, Leckhampstead ecclesiastical parish was recreated (after its 1308 takeover by Chieveley) twenty years after a new church for Leckhampstead was dedicated to replace its ruined chapel.\n\nThe Domesday Book of 1086 records that \"Lecanestede\" was held by Abingdon Abbey.\nThe date that Leckhampstead became a property of Abingdon Abbey is uncertain. It is mentioned in a Charter dated to 811 in which King Coenwulf of Mercia handed ten hides of land in Leckhampstead to Abingdon. This charter has however been shown to be a forgery. In 943 a secular noble named Eadric was granted Leckhampstead by King Edmund I . It is only then in the hands of Abingdon Abbey c.1030 when King Cnut gave it to another secular noble named Brihtmund for three lifetimes, after which it would return to the abbey. In the early 1040s a legal case developed between the abbey and Brihtmund's younger son Brihtwine. The matter was only resolved in the abbey's favour after 1052.\n\nA medieval deer park existed about 1228. The manor passed into noble but secular hands around this time. The manor passed with Donnington Manor to the Earl of Nottingham (Charles of Effingham), and from him to John Mordaunt, 1st Earl of Peterborough and Elizabeth his wife, who sold the site in 1632 to the apparent trustees for the earlier long tenants, the Spicer family – in 1743 a number of members of that family conveyed their estate to John Line. In \n1798 it was the property of William Hopson Goodenough however was subdivided greatly by the 20th century. Its 17th century manor farm house had been much altered but has 17th and 18th century parts and is a listed building in the starting category.\n\nBefore the establishment of a uniform national welfare system, two charities were identified of specific Leckhampstead origin or benefit:\nIn 1805 Catherine Mather by will left a sum for the vestry's investment as a distribution (its total fund stood at £425 5s ) in 1923 and it producing yearly £10 12s. 4d. payable to the local education authority.\n\nIn 1872 Hugh Barton Gledstanes left £1,000, on ambiguous trust as the income was directed \"for the relief of the poor brethren and for the help of the Lord's servants who carried on the work of the Gospel at Leckhampstead and neighbourhood\". The estate was administered in court and its order of 1 June 1883 a few pence under £694 was transferred to the official trustees, producing yearly £17 7s for poor Plymouth Brethren in 1923.\n\nThe Church of England parish church of St James, built in 1859 of brick and flint, is towards the southern end of the village. It was designed by architect, Samuel Sanders Teulon. The interior is brick with patterns formed by the use of differently coloured brick courses and complementary colour stone embellishments.\n\nLeckhampstead has a village hall used for voluntary and social gatherings.\n\nThe one public house in the village: \"The Stag\", closed in 2017.\n\nLeckhampstead War Memorial is sited on the triangular village green. It comprises an obelisk on a plinth with two clock faces, one facing north and one facing south, which incorporate various types of ammunition in them. The surrounding chains are from a battleship that took part in the Battle of Jutland and they are supported on spent shell cases. It was given Grade II listed status in May 2016, legally protecting it from unauthorised modification or removal.\n\nThe Hangman's Stone is a boundary stone about a mile south of the middle of the village at . It gets its name from a local tale which tells of a sheep rustler who was carrying a stolen sheep over his shoulder with a rope held around his neck. Feeling tired the thief sat on a stone beside the road and fell asleep. The sheep, in struggling to get free, hanged the man by the rope that had remained around his neck. The stone has given its name to the road which passes it, Hangman's Stone Lane, which leads to the village of Boxford.\n\nThe hamlet of Hill Green has six listed buildings, all in the initial category of Grade II. All are homes, the earliest dates to the 18th century.\n\nLeckhampstead Thicket is a hamlet between Leckhampstead and Chaddleworth (). There are a number of thatched or slated cottages of which two are listed and a Primitive Methodist chapel, dated 1874, rebuilt from one of 1830, which has not been in use as a chapel for a number of years.\n\nThe physical economy within the parish is mainly related to agriculture. For a time such as in the early 20th century brick works employed some sons of the village at the Oare works, part of Chieveley. Today access to the M4 corridor is within a few miles south of the village by a junction close to Chieveley. A high proportion of the 16–74 age range in the 2011 census were self-employed.\nAt the same census 238 people in Leckhampstead were aged 16–74 whose economic activity was divided as follows, per their responses:\n\n"}
{"id": "1926480", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926480", "title": "Federal Service for Intellectual Property (Russia)", "text": "Federal Service for Intellectual Property (Russia)\n\nThe Russian Federal Service for Intellectual Property, commonly known as Rospatent (), is a Russian governmental agency in charge of intellectual property. Its former name was \"Federal Service for Intellectual Property, Patents and Trademarks (Rospatent)\".\n\nIn the former Soviet Union, \"Goskomizobretenie\" (), which stood for \"Gostudarstvennyi komitet po delam izobretenie i otkrytii\", was the State Committee for Inventions and Discoveries. It maintained a registry of inventions and discoveries and gave out authors certificates and patents.\n\nAs of June 1, 2017, more than 379 860 national trademarks and 191 023 international trademarks were registered at the Russian Federal Service for Intellectual Property, and it issued 236 510 patents.\n\n"}
{"id": "1926485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926485", "title": "Aquinas College (Tennessee)", "text": "Aquinas College (Tennessee)\n\nAquinas College is a private Roman Catholic college in Nashville, Tennessee. It was founded in 1961 and named in honor of St. Thomas Aquinas.\n\nAquinas College is a private, Catholic, four-year liberal arts college founded in 1961, owned and operated by the Dominican Sisters of St. Cecilia Congregation in Nashville, Tennessee.\n\nOffering undergraduate and graduate degrees in education and the arts and sciences, Aquinas College is a leader in the formation of educators who are sent forth to teach, preach, and witness to Truth and Charity for the salvation of souls and the transformation of culture.\n\nAquinas College roots began in 1928 as St. Cecilia Normal School as a school for religious sisters located at the St. Cecilia Motherhouse. In 1961, the school moved away from the Motherhouse, opened to the public, and became Aquinas Junior College. In 1994, the college was renamed Aquinas College when it began offering four-year degrees. Since that time, Aquinas College has grown to include four-year programs in Liberal Arts, Business, Nursing, and Teacher Education. And in 2012, the College began graduate studies in the School of Education and in the School of Nursing, and founded a residential life program and House Life program. Aquinas is part of the Dominican Campus, located approximately five miles (8 km) west of downtown Nashville. Also on the same plot of land are Overbrook School, a coeducational eight-grade Catholic primary school, and Saint Cecilia Academy, a Catholic girls' high school.\n\nThe addition of a third and fourth year collegiate curriculum caused a major change in the school's operation. It had previously been a major power in junior college athletics (notably baseball and basketball). However, the school's administration felt that continuing to play junior college athletics while operating as a four-year college, as was done for a period, misrepresented the school's true nature to the public and that competition at the four-year collegiate level of athletics would prove cost-prohibitive, so the institution currently sponsors no athletic programs.\n\nIn 2014, Aquinas College began the implementation of its Vision 2020: Truth & Charity strategic plan, which included the reintroduction of intercollegiate athletics. The College promptly implemented three initiatives outlined in the strategic plan: the foundation of a perpetual Eucharistic Adoration chapel, the foundation of study abroad in Bracciano, Italy, and the implementation of a four-year Bachelor of Science in Nursing (BSN) program.\n\nThe founding of Aquinas College in 1961 was the realization of a long-held dream of the Dominican Sisters of St. Cecilia of Nashville, Tennessee: to have a place where the newest members of the religious community could receive their initial degrees to serve in the community's teaching apostolate. Over the years, this fundamental mission has remained, even as the sisters have continually found ways to be of service to the educational and catechetical needs of the Nashville community and beyond.\n\nIn the fall of 2017, Aquinas College embarked on a path of reconfiguration in order to focus its academic programming on preparation of educators and to strengthen its service to Catholic school teachers, leaders, and catechists through spiritual and professional formation programs. In 2019 Aquinas College released and began implementation of Sent to Witness: Aquinas College Strategic Plan 2019–2025, in support of the sharp focus on education.\n\nThe Center for Catholic Education at Aquinas College in conjunction with the School of Education serves Catholic elementary and secondary schools by providing spiritual and professional formation opportunities in the area of mission and Catholic identity.\n\nThe Center for Evangelization and Catechesis at Aquinas College supports the work of catechists and leaders by providing workshops, retreats, and directed study of the Catholic Faith.\n\nThe U.S. News & World Report has ranked Aquinas College as 14th in Best Regional Colleges in the South in its 2015 rankings, up from a ranking of 30th in the previous year. Contributing to the high ranking were the low class sizes and student-to-faculty ratio, high freshman retention rate, high test scores, a high graduation rate, and a high peer assessment score. The magazine also recognized Aquinas College for being 4th in Best Colleges for Veterans in the same regional college category, up from 7th in the previous year.\n\n"}
{"id": "1926487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926487", "title": "Merriwether Williams", "text": "Merriwether Williams\n\nMerriwether St. John Williams (born March 28, 1968) is an American television writer, former Nickelodeon executive and actress, who has worked on television shows such as \"Happy Tree Friends\", \"SpongeBob SquarePants\", \"\", \"Camp Lazlo\", and \"Adventure Time\".\n\nAfter leaving the executive ranks at Nickelodeon, she wrote outlines for \"SpongeBob SquarePants\" and a couple episodes of \"The Angry Beavers\". In 2003, she developed and became the show-runner and head writer of the short-lived Showtime animated sitcom \"Free For All\". In 2005, she became the head of story for \"Camp Lazlo\" at Cartoon Network.\n\nMore recently, Williams has written several episodes for \"Adventure Time\", \"Littlest Pet Shop\", \"\", and \"Pig Goat Banana Cricket\". She has also written an episode for \"Johnny Test\" and \"Pound Puppies\". She is currently co-producer and writer on \"Billy Dilley's Super-Duper Subterranean Summer\".\n\nShe has also co-written the films \"Good Time Max\", \"The Ape\", and \"Fool's Gold\" with actor James Franco.\n"}
{"id": "1926491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926491", "title": "Mike Watt and the Secondmen", "text": "Mike Watt and the Secondmen\n\nMike Watt and the Secondmen is the punk rock trio formed by former Minutemen and Firehose bassist Mike Watt to perform and record his third solo album, \"The Secondman's Middle Stand\". Formed in 2002 in Watt's hometown of San Pedro, California, the band first consisted of organist Pete Mazich and drummer Jerry Trebotic, both of whom had played with Watt in a side project, The Madonnabes, that was devoted to reinterpreting the works of Madonna; the three musicians had also previously recorded a song for a Doctors Without Borders benefit album under the name Mike Watt & Masina in 1998, with Mazich's wife Ljil on vocals.\n\nThe Secondmen did three tours of the United States and Canada wherein they played early versions of some of the songs that were to be on the album, along with songs from Watt's back catalog and hand-picked cover versions rearranged for organ. Mazich's day job commitments forced him to tour as much as his earned vacation time (five weeks for the spring 2002 tour; seven weeks for the spring 2003 tour) would allow. For the remainder of the 2002 tour, guitarist Tom Watson took Mazich's place, and the Secondmen finished the tour as The Jom and Terry Show; the spring 2003 tour saw former Screamers and Twisted Roots keyboardist Paul Roessler (who is also Watt's former brother-in-law) sub for Mazich during the last three weeks of the tour. By October 2003 Mazich decided to quit the day job in order to be able to concentrate on music while working as a freelance, \"casual\", longshoreman in between Watt tours. \n\nIn January 2004, the band recorded \"The Secondman's Middle Stand\" along with former that dog. vocalist Petra Haden in a San Pedro recording studio. The group initially intended to start promoting the album during the 2004 Lollapalooza festival, but the cancellation of the festival led to the band not touring behind the album until September of that year. \n\nAt one point, neither Trebotic nor Mazich could join Watt so they were temporarily replaced by Raul Morales and Tom Watson with the new combination named The Missingmen.\n\nIn 2005, personal commitments similar to Trebotic's forced Mazich to sit out a European tour behind \"Middle Stand\"; Paul Roessler played in his stead a second time. (Maintaining a sense of humor, Watt nicknamed the Roessler/Morales lineup \"The Second-string Men\".) The original lineup, however, did regroup to film a trilogy of three videos from \"The Secondman's Middle Stand\" with director Mike Muscarella.\n\nA regrouping of the original Secondmen lineup of Watt, Mazich and Trebotic played the Festival Periferias in Huesca, Spain on October 29, 2005, and a benefit concert for the San Pedro Skateboard Association on November 5, 2005. After the success of those gigs, the Secondmen were scheduled to play two more Los Angeles-area shows, including a December 3 opening slot with reunited punk legends and longtime heroes of Watt's, the Germs. The original lineup continues to play on occasion in the Los Angeles area, and has also played as a five-piece with Watson and Morales as The Secondmissingmen; this hybrid lineup debuted on Watt's 57th birthday. \n"}
{"id": "1926496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926496", "title": "Umor of Bulgaria", "text": "Umor of Bulgaria\n\nUmor () was the ruler of Bulgaria in 766.\n\nAccording to the Namelist of Bulgarian Rulers, Umor reigned for only 40 days in 766 and belonged to the Ukil clan, which makes him a relative of the former rulers Vinekh and possibly Kormisosh. The Byzantine sources indicate that his predecessor Sabin entrusted Bulgaria to Umor, but give no details of his short reign or fate. Some scholars speculate that he was a champion of the peace party like his discredited predecessor, and that he may have likewise fled to the Byzantine Empire.\n\nThe 17th century Volga Bulgar compilation \"Ja'far Tarikh\" (a work of disputed authenticity) represents Yumart (i.e., Umor) as the elderly father-in-law of the former ruler Teles (i.e., Telets). According to this source Yumart deposed Sain (i.e., Sabin) and died shortly afterwards.\n\n"}
{"id": "1926497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926497", "title": "East Garston", "text": "East Garston\n\nEast Garston is a village and civil parish on the River Lambourn, about north of Hungerford in West Berkshire. The river flows through the village, dividing many houses from the main road, so that each has a bridge over the river to the front door.\n\nThe civil parish of East Garston comprises the village of East Garston, together with a considerable are of rural downland to the north and south. The parish has approximately 226 dwellings and a population of 532 (2001 census), in an area of . The parish has boundaries with the Berkshire parishes of Fawley, Great Shefford, Hungerford and Lambourn, and with the Oxfordshire parish of Letcombe Bassett.\n\n\nThe village has a Village Hall and Social Club.\n\nOne of the most notable expansions with village life has been the recent growth of East Garston Cricket Club. Established by Roy Hunt, a former cricket enthusiast, to challenge the local Wantage 41 club in an annual game, it was from here that the club grew and expanded into a properly organised team. In the present day, more than 7 years after the club's inception, the team has a had increasing success in friendly fixtures against local opposition. The club has become an increasingly sociable aspect of village life with increased participation from village residents and others from the surrounding area. The club plays about 20 matches per year, some on Thursday evenings, others on Sunday afternoons.\n\nEast Garston Bellringers was re-formed in 1998.\n\nEast Garston is the home of the Garston Gallopers, a mixed Morris dancing side. The Gallopers colours are purple and green, the \"village\" colours from the school uniform and the racing colours of a prominent racehorse trainer from the village. The emblem is the traditional carousel galloper. Practice is on Monday evenings in East Garston Village Hall throughout the year, new dancers and musicians are always welcome.\n"}
{"id": "1926500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926500", "title": "Life's Been Good", "text": "Life's Been Good\n\n\"Life's Been Good\" is a song by American musician Joe Walsh, which first appeared on the soundtrack to the 1978 film \"FM\". The original eight-minute version was released on Walsh's 1978 album \"But Seriously, Folks...\", and an edited 4 1/2 minute single version peaked at #12 on the US \"Billboard\" Hot 100, remaining his biggest solo hit.\n\nIn the song, Walsh satirically reflects on the antics and excess of the era's rock stars, with nods to Keith Moon and others: \"I live in hotels, tear out the walls/I have accountants pay for it all\", and \"My Maserati does one-eighty-five/I lost my license, now I don't drive\". The automobile that Walsh himself owned at the time was a 1964 Maserati 5000 GT. \n\nThe 1979 \"Rolling Stone Record Guide\" called it \"riotous\", and \"(maybe) the most important statement on rock stardom anyone has made in the late Seventies\". His later \"Ordinary Average Guy\" is written as a late-life followup.\n\nThe song is used in the Kevin Smith film \"Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back\" during the opening of the movie, where the titular characters are left outside of a quickstop (from Smith's earlier film \"Clerks\") by their respective parents. However, it did not appear on the soundtrack album.\n\n\"Life's Been Good\" has a mid-tempo, reggae-like groove marked by bedrock guitar riffs, synthesizers, and humorous lyrics. Walsh's ARP Odyssey synthesizer riff accompanies the lead guitar in the middle of the song. The lead guitar in the outro is accompanied by the main riff. Bill Szymczyk and Jody Boyer perform the backing vocals.\n\nThe pre-chorus section on the second and third verses uses a call and response pattern.\n\nAt the end of the LP, there is a clip of an inside joke stating \"uh-oh, here comes a flock of wah wahs\", recorded from inside the studio. After the music has faded away into silence, there's a 10-second gap before the inside joke. That inside joke would also be included at the end of disc one of the Eagles' box set, \"\".\n\nMade after Walsh had joined the Eagles, \"Life's Been Good\" was incorporated into that group's concert repertoire, appearing in shows at the time as well as reunion tours. It remains a staple of classic rock radio playlists. A live version of the song with the Eagles appears on the 1980 album \"Eagles Live\", where some of the lyrics are changed.\n\nIn a 2012 concert at the Troubadour in West Hollywood, California, Walsh explained that the song's lyrics are true.\n\nHe said that he purchased a home in Santa Barbara, California shortly before he joined the Eagles. He then spent the next two years touring or recording albums, and spent very little time at the home. Rather, he spent most of his time living in hotels. He preferred hotel rooms with adjoining rooms. If a hotel room did not have two adjoining rooms available, he would rent two rooms next to each other. He would then make a connection to the other room by \"tearing out a wall\".\n\nHe did own a Maserati. He lost his wallet, and his drivers license was in the wallet. His license was not taken away by the government. He often rode in limousines. He does have an office with gold records on the wall and an answering machine.\n\nWalsh said he had been to parties and stayed late on many occasions. On one occasion, he attempted to leave the party in the early morning hours. However, rather going out the front door of the house, he walked into a closet.\n\nIn 2013, this song was sampled on Eminem's \"So Far...\" off \"The Marshall Mathers LP 2\", produced by Rick Rubin.\n"}
{"id": "1926506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926506", "title": "Allied Forces Northern Europe", "text": "Allied Forces Northern Europe\n\nAllied Forces Northern Europe (AFNORTH) was the northern Major Subordinate Command of NATO's Allied Command Europe (ACE), located at Kolsås outside Oslo. In the case of war with the Soviet Union, AFNORTH would assume supreme command of all Allied forces in northern Europe (Norway and Denmark) and Germany north of Elbe/Hamburg and adjacent sea territory.\n\nFor much of its existence its commander-in-chief (CINCNORTH) was a British Admiral or General. The chief-of-staff was always a German Vice Admiral. The central Air Force Commander Northern Europe, who would assume command of all NATO air forces in AFNORTH's area in the case of war, was directly subordinated to CINCNORTH and was always a general from the U.S. Air Force. The leadership of AFNORTH additionally included a \"Land Deputy\", a \"Sea Deputy\", and an \"Air Deputy\", who were for a period Danish or Norwegian Major Generals or Rear Admirals.\n\nHeadquarters Allied Air Forces Northern Europe was created by SHAPE on 29 March 1951. Major General R.K. Taylor, U.S. Air Force, was assigned as its commander on 2 April 1951. The Headquarters was established in London on 1 June 1951 and later transferred to Oslo, Norway on 22 June 1951. By June 1952 no units had been earmarked or allocated for it. Major General Homer L. Sanders held command September 1954-September 1957. Major General Carl D. Peterson became Air Deputy in June 1977.\n\nUntil the formation of BALTAP around 1962, AFNORTH comprised Allied Land Forces Norway, Allied Land Forces Denmark, and Allied Air Forces and Allied Naval Forces, Northern Europe (four commands).\n\nIn 1989 at the end of the Cold War AFNORTH's major subordinate commands were Allied Forces North Norway; Allied Forces South Norway; and Allied Forces Baltic Approaches (Karup). BALTAP comprised AIRBALTAP, NAVBALTAP, LANDZEALAND, responsible for the land defence of Zealand and the other Danish islands, and Allied Land Forces Schleswig-Holstein and Jutland (LANDJUT). From 1962 LANDJUT had been responsible for the land defence of the Baltic Approaches from a headquarters at Rendsburg, Germany. LANDJUT comprised the 6th Panzergrenadier Division and the Danish Jutland Division. LANDJUT was planned to be reinforced in time of war by the United Kingdom Mobile Force, primarily 1st Infantry Brigade and the US Army's 9th Infantry Division. In case of war with the Warsaw Pact AFNORTH would have moved its headquarter to the subterranean command center at Kolsås.\n\nHQ AFNORTH Kolsås closed on the morning of 30 June 1994. The HQ that replaced it, HQ Allied Forces Northwestern Europe (AFNORTHWEST), located at RAF High Wycombe in the United Kingdom, was activated in the afternoon of 30 June 1994. AFNORTHWEST directed three Principal Subordinate Commanders: Commander Allied Air Forces Northwestern Europe (COMAIRNORTHWEST), Commander Allied Naval Forces Northwestern Europe (COMNAVNORTHWEST) (the former EASTLANT/CINCHAN), and Commander Allied Forces Northern Europe (COMNORTH), an amalgamation of Allied Forces North and South Norway. In addition, in various circumstances Baltic Approaches naval forces would report to either CINCNORTHWEST or COMNAVNORTHWEST.\n\nAFCENT, located in Brunssum in the Netherlands, was renamed AFNORTH. AFNORTHWEST was disestablished on 3 March 2000, CINCNORTHWEST transferring his authority to RHQ AFNORTH the same day. In the year 2004, it was again renamed, to Joint Force Command Brunssum.\n\nThe headquarters facility at Kolsås is now used by the Norwegian defence logistics organization.\n\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki> The sub-commands of NON and SONOR were national Norwegian commands.\n\n\nThe command alternated between British and German generals.\n\nCommanders-in-Chief have been:\n\n"}
{"id": "1926512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926512", "title": "Duluth Entertainment Convention Center", "text": "Duluth Entertainment Convention Center\n\nDuluth Entertainment Convention Center (DECC), is a multi-purpose arena and convention center complex located in Duluth, Minnesota. It has been home to the University of Minnesota Duluth Bulldog hockey team since 1966. The DECC is located on the waterfront near Duluth's famous Aerial Lift Bridge.\n\nThe DECC Arena, originally called the Duluth Arena Auditorium, was built at a cost of $6.5 million, the arena portion of the complex houses a 190-by-85 foot hockey rink with 5,333 seats, and six locker rooms, including the recently remodeled $2 million locker room facility now used by the men and women Bulldog hockey teams.\n\nThe rink can be converted to allow the DECC Arena to host concerts, dinners, conventions, and shows. The DECC was the site of the NCAA I men's hockey championships in both 1968 and 1981, hosted the 2003 and 2008 Women's NCAA Division I Frozen Four. A spacious lobby, where ticket sales originate, separates the Arena from Symphony Hall. Symphony Hall seats 2,400 and plays host to concerts, symphonies, plays, operas, high school and college graduations, and a variety of other activities.\n\nPioneer Hall was added in 1976, and contains a hockey rink with smaller seating capability utilizing fold-out bleacher seating. Pioneer Hall is also the home of the Duluth Curling Club with eight curling rinks (can be expanded to provide up to 13 curling sheets for major events) and a lounge area. It is the largest curling venue in the United States, and has hosted two World Championships, the US Olympic Trials, and numerous National events. The Duluth Curling Club is the second largest curling club in the United States.\n\nIn the mid-1990s a $30 million Convention center was added, which is the site of numerous social, business and entertainment events, and features the Lake Superior Ballroom, the Harborside Ballroom, and 25 Meeting Rooms.\n\nThe 2008 Minnesota bonding bill included $38 million for the \"DECC expansion project\". The DECC expansion included a new multi-purpose arena for the UMD men's and women's ice hockey teams, The arena was an increase in seating capacity by 2,100 from the original DECC Arena and seats 6,600 for ice hockey and 8,500 for concerts. The expansion project also included a new parking ramp and more space for conventions and concerts, which DECC director Dan Russell said will bring more events to the complex. Construction began in September (2008), and the AMSOIL Arena opened on December 30, 2010 for a Men's UMD hockey game against the University of North Dakota. The new arena was named AMSOIL Arena.\n\n"}
{"id": "1926516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926516", "title": "Jerry Hairston Jr.", "text": "Jerry Hairston Jr.\n\nJerry Wayne Hairston Jr. (born May 29, 1976) is a Mexican-American former professional baseball infielder and outfielder. He played sixteen seasons in Major League Baseball (MLB) for the Baltimore Orioles, Chicago Cubs, Texas Rangers, Cincinnati Reds, New York Yankees, San Diego Padres, Washington Nationals, Milwaukee Brewers, and Los Angeles Dodgers. He played every position except pitcher and catcher during his baseball career. He is the grandson of former major leaguer Sam Hairston, the son of former major leaguer Jerry Hairston Sr., and the brother of Scott Hairston. He helped the Yankees win the 2009 World Series, beating the Philadelphia Phillies, giving him his only World Series title.\n\nIn High School, he was a two-time All-State selection at Naperville North High School in baseball and an all-area selection in basketball. He was drafted in the 42nd round of the 1995 Major League Baseball draft by the Baltimore Orioles but chose instead to go to college.\n\nHairston played college ball at Southern Illinois University in 1996 and 1997, where he batted .360 for his career and was the Missouri Valley Conference Freshman of the Year in 1996. In both years he played collegiate summer baseball in the Cape Cod Baseball League, playing for the Bourne Braves in 1996, and the Wareham Gatemen in 1997. He was later inducted as a member of the Southern Illinois Baseball Hall of Fame.\n\nHairston was drafted in the 11th round of the 1997 Major League Baseball draft by the Baltimore Orioles. He made his professional debut in 1997 with the rookie-league Bluefield Orioles, where he hit .330 in 59 games. In 1998, he made a fast rise up the farm system, starting in A with the Frederick Keys, where he played in 80 games and hit .302, then he was promoted to the AA Bowie Baysox, where he hit .326 in 55 games and received a September promotion to the Major Leagues.\n\nHe made his major league debut with the Orioles on September 11, 1998 against the Anaheim Angels at second base, he was hitless in three at-bats in that game. He appeared in a total of 7 games in 1998, primarily as a pinch runner or late inning defensive replacement, and did not get a hit in 7 at-bats. In 1999 and 2000, he split his time between the AAA Rochester Red Wings and the Orioles. He recorded his first Major League hit on June 27, 1999 off of New York Yankees pitcher Orlando Hernández and his first home run came off of Joey Hamilton of the Toronto Blue Jays on July 1, 1999. He had fairly regular playing time with the Orioles in 2001 and 2002 and was used more as a utility player in 2003 and 2004.\n\nIn his seven seasons with Baltimore, he played in 558 games, batting .261.\n\nHe was traded (along with Oriole prospects Mike Fontenot and David Crouthers) to the Chicago Cubs in the 2005 offseason for Sammy Sosa. The Cubs attempted to use Hairston as a leadoff man, but he finished the 2005 season with an unremarkable on-base percentage of .336 and stole only 8 bases in 17 attempts. Even though most Cubs fans initially welcomed the dismissal of Sosa—whose performance was on the decline and was seen as a problematic teammate—the poor play of Hairston would eventually cause many fans to sour on this particular trade. In two seasons with the Cubs, he hit .251 in 152 games.\n\nHairston's statistics declined further at the start of the 2006 season, and on May 31, he was traded to the Texas Rangers for Phil Nevin. Hairston was released from the Rangers after the 2006 season but re-signed to a minor league contract with an invitation to spring training. Hairston won a spot on the opening day roster, as a reserve outfielder and utility player. A series of injuries to teammates Hank Blalock, Ian Kinsler, Mark Teixeira, and Frank Catalanotto, as well as the trades of Teixeira and Kenny Lofton, led to Hairston playing on a regular basis throughout the 2007 season. Hairston became a free agent after the season. In his two seasons with Texas, he hit .194 in 136 games.\n\nOn March 3, 2008, Hairston signed a minor league contract with the Cincinnati Reds. On April 21, his contract was purchased by the Reds and was added to the roster. He was re-signed after the season, on January 7, 2009, to a one-year contract; the contract contained $2 million in guaranteed money. In two seasons with the Reds, he hit .287 in 166 games.\n\nHairston represented Mexico at the 2009 World Baseball Classic alongside his brother Scott. Hairston's mother was born in Mexico, making him eligible to play for the Mexican team. He had 4 hits in 14 at-bats in the Classic.\n\nOn July 31, 2009, he was traded to the New York Yankees for minor league catcher Chase Weems. On August 1, 2009, Hairston got his first hit and RBI as a Yankee. On October 17, 2009, he got his first career post-season hit in his first career post-season at-bat and later ended a 13-inning ALCS Game 2 by scoring on an error by the Angels' Maicer Izturis. This gave the Yankees a 2–0 advantage going into the third game of the series. He had 1 hit in 6 at-bats for the Yankees in the 2009 World Series. In his half season with the Yanks, he hit .237 with 2 homeruns and 12 RBIs in 45 games.\n\nOn January 18, 2010, Hairston signed a one-year, $2.15 million contract with the San Diego Padres, the same team as his brother, Scott Hairston, was playing on. Hairston's 2010 season was cut short in September with a fractured right tibia, but he still played in 119 games with the Padres, hitting .244.\n\nOn January 19, 2011, Hairston agreed to a one-year, $2 million contract with the Washington Nationals that included over $1 million in incentives. He played in 75 games for them, hitting .268.\n\nOn July 30, 2011, Hairston was traded to the Milwaukee Brewers for Double-A outfielder Erik Komatsu. He played in 45 games for the Brewers, hitting .274.\n\nOn December 5, 2011, the Los Angeles Dodgers signed Hairston to a two-year contract worth $6 million.\n\nOn June 1, 2012 Hairston was part of a Dodgers lineup that featured the sons of five former Major Leaguers (along with Tony Gwynn Jr., Iván DeJesús Jr., Dee Gordon and Scott Van Slyke). This was the first time in Major League history that this had occurred. It was also the first time a starting infield of four major league sons had ever occurred: first baseman Van Slyke, second baseman Hairston, third baseman De Jesus and shortstop Gordon.\n\nOn August 22, it was determined that Hairston would need surgery on his left hip. The injury had bothered him for some time before he finally went on the disabled list on August 13. The surgery would sideline him for the rest of the season. In 78 games with the Dodgers in 2012, Hairston hit .273 while playing numerous different positions.\n\nIn 2013, Hairston was a key reserve for the Dodgers, playing 28 games at third base, 23 in left field, 4 in right field, 13 at first base and 1 at second base. He struggled with the bat however, hitting just .211.\n\nOn December 11, 2013, it was announced that Hairston would be retiring as an active player to join the Dodgers pre and post game broadcasting crew on SportsNet LA.\n\nAccording to Luis Fernando Llosa and L. Jon Wertheim, Hairston received genotropin, human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG), and clomiphene citrate in 2004. One of Hairston's prescriptions was written by \"A. Almarashi.\" Investigators believe Almarashi is an alias for a Queens, N.Y., doctor stripped of her medical license in 1999. She is awaiting trial on multiple charges after allegedly writing bogus prescriptions for thousands of online customers she never examined. Hairston denied any connection, stating \"Not one time have I taken steroids or anything like that. [ . . .] I would never do anything like that to jeopardize my career or my family's name.\"\n\nOn December 13, 2007, he was cited in the Mitchell Report to the Commissioner of Baseball of an Independent Investigation Into the Illegal Use of Steroids and Other Performance Enhancing Substances by Players in Major League Baseball.\n\nJerry's brother Scott is also a professional baseball player. Their father Jerry Hairston Sr. and grandfather Sam Hairston were also major league players, making him the first African American to be a third-generation major-leaguer. Hairston's heritage is also Mexican American on his mother's side. His uncle Johnny Hairston also played in the majors. Several other family members have also played in the minor leagues.\n\nHe attended Naperville North High School in Naperville, Illinois and Southern Illinois University. Hairston became one of Jehovah's Witnesses in July 2000.\n\n\n, or Retrosheet, or The Baseball Gauge, or Venezuela Winter League\n"}
{"id": "1926526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926526", "title": "Gwendolyn B. Bennett", "text": "Gwendolyn B. Bennett\n\nGwendolyn B. Bennett (July 8, 1902 – May 30, 1981) was an American artist, writer, and journalist who contributed to \"\", which chronicled cultural advancements during the Harlem Renaissance. Though often overlooked, she herself made considerable accomplishments in art, poetry, and prose. She is perhaps best known for her short story \"Wedding Day\", which was published in the magazine \"Fire!!\" and explores how gender, race, and class dynamics shape an interracial relationship. Bennett was a dedicated and self-preserving woman, respectfully known for being a strong influencer of African-American women rights during the Harlem Renaissance. Throughout her dedication and perseverance, Bennett raised the bar when it came to women's literature and education. One of her contributions to the Harlem Renaissance was her literary acclaimed short novel \"Poets Evening\"; it helped the understanding within the African-American communities, resulting in many African-Americans coming to terms with identifying and accepting themselves.\nGwendolyn Bennett Bennett was born July 8, 1902, in Giddings, Texas, to Joshua Robbin Bennett and Mayme F. (Abernethy) Bennett. She spent her early childhood in Wadsworth, Nevada, on the Paiute Indian Reservation. Her parents taught in the Indian Service for the Bureau of Indian Affairs.\n\nIn 1906, when Bennett was four years old, her family moved to 1454 T Street Northwest, Washington D.C., so Joshua could study law at Howard University and Mayme could train to be a beautician. Gwendolyn's parents divorced when she was seven years old. Mayme gained custody of Gwendolyn; however Joshua Bennett kidnapped Gwendolyn and they lived in hiding, along with her stepmother, Marechal Neil, in various places in the East, including Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, and Brooklyn, New York, where she attended Brooklyn's Girls' High from 1918 to 1921. While attending Girls' High, Bennett was awarded first place in a school wide art contest, and was the first African American to join the literary and dramatic societies. She wrote her high school play and was also featured as an actress. She also wrote both the class graduation speech and the words to the graduation song.\n\nAfter her graduation in 1921, Bennett took art classes at Columbia University and the Pratt Institute. In her undergraduate studies, her poem \"Heritage\" was published in \"The Crisis\", magazine of the NAACP, during November 1923; in December of the same year, \"Heritage\" was included in \"Opportunity\", a magazine published by the National Urban League. In 1924, her poem \"To Usward\" was chosen as a dedication for the introduction of Jessie Fauset's novel \"There Is Confusion\" at a Civic Club dinner hosted by Charles S. Johnson. for they both highlight the struggle for a defined voice of freedom, as well as the struggle of patriotism in regards of War. For Fauset highlights the optimistic impact of War upon society, while Bennett pinpointed and clarified the sorrow War enacted upon society, both equally different and very similar.-\n\nBennett graduated from Columbia and Pratt in 1924 and received a position at Howard University, where she taught design, watercolor painting and crafts. A scholarship enabling her to study in Paris, France, at the Sorbonne, was awarded to Bennett during December 1924. She then continued her fine arts education at the Académie Julian and the École du Panthéon in Paris. During her studies in Paris, Bennett worked with a variety of materials, including watercolor, oil, woodcuts, pen and ink, and batik, which was the beginning of her career as a graphic artist. However, most of her pieces from this period of her life were destroyed during a fire at her stepmother's home in 1926.\n\nBennett was a prominent figure and best known for the poetry and writing she produced that had a direct influential impact on the motives and essence of the Harlem Renaissance. Some ideologies that her works brought into perspective include the emphasis of Racial pride and the reminiscence of African values, such as music and dance. One of her most influential poems, \"Fantasy\", not only emphasized the racial pride of African-Americans, but also for women in general by shining light on possibilities that may not have been necessarily attainable for women during this time period.\n\nWhen Bennett left Paris in 1926, she headed back to New York to become the assistant to the editor for \"Opportunity\". During her time employed at \"Opportunity\", she received the Barnes Foundation fellowship for her work in graphic design and the fine arts. Her artwork was also used for \"Crisis\" and \"Opportunity\" covers with themes that included diverse races, ages, classes, and/or genders allowing Bennett to display of the beauty in diversity. Later during the same year she returned to Howard University once again to teach fine arts. While assistant to the editor at \"Opportunity\" she was given the chance to publish articles discussing topics involving literature and the fine arts, and her column titled \"The Ebony Flute\" (1926–28) distributed news about the many creative thinkers involved with the Harlem Renaissance. \n\nIn 1926, she was also a co-founder and editor of the short-lived literary journal \"Fire!!\". Conceived by Langston Hughes and Richard Nugent, Bennet served as an editor for the single edition of \"Fire!!\", along with Zora Neale Hurston, John Davis, and Aaron Douglas.. The failed publication is now regarded as key cultural moment of the Harlem Renaissance..\n\nFinding inspiration through William Rose Bennet’s poem, \"Harlem,\" Bennett established and named her self-proclaimed literary column, “The Ebony Flute,” another way in which Bennett was able to impact the Harlem Renaissance. “The Ebony Flute” was another contribution that Bennett gave to the Harlem Renaissance, as she emphasized Harlem culture and social life. In order to keep updated with news, Bennett counted on her network contacts to foster the thriving and diverse environment that the Harlem Renaissance had to offer. Bennett's impact on the Harlem Renaissance was uncanny, as she found ways to influence and contribute to her community without even publishing her own assemblage of poetic and literary works.\n\nAlong with her emphasis on racial pride and literary column, “The Ebony Flute,” Bennett also shared a romantic vision of being African through romantic lyric. One way she expressed and shared this vision was through, \"To a Dark Girl,\" one of her more famous works of poetry. Creating an empowering aspect to African-American women features, Bennett's imagery and comparisons to queens are used to influence African-American women in embracing their blackness. Bennett admired African-American artists and they made her feel proud to be part of that community, despite experiencing judgement from whites in the past. \n\nAlthough homosexuality was heavily criticized at the time, it had become common for both homosexual and straight female poets to write of lesbianism, and this included Bennett. Female, African-American poets had never before written about this topic, and even though it was considered taboo then, she and many other poets inspired other women to follow in their footsteps several years later. \n\nHarlem Circles, created by Bennett, were intended to be a place for writers to gather, share ideas, and spark inspiration. Over a period of eight years, some of the most famous Harlem Renaissance figures, such as Wallace Thurman and Langston Hughes, met up in these groups and produced significant works as a result. These well-known poets and writers may not have created said works if it weren't for Bennett.\n\nHer work during this period of her life was praised by her fellow writers in Harlem. The playwright Theodore Ward declared that Bennett's work was one of the \"most promising of the poets out of the Harlem Renaissance\" and also called Bennett a \"dynamic figure... noted for her depth and understanding.\" J. Mason Brewer, an African-American folklorist and storyteller, called Bennett a \"nationally known artist and poetess.\" Since Brewer was also a native Texan, he further stated that as a result of Bennett's Texas birthplace, \"Texans feel that they have a claim on her and that the beautiful and poignant lyrics she writes resulted partially from the impression of her early Texas surroundings.\" Activist and author James Weldon Johnson described Bennett's work as \"delicate\" and \"poignant\". This was an opportune time for female poets as many of them were not only taken seriously by peers and those in their community, but were also successful. Receiving such positive criticism from other members of the Harlem Renaissance helped Bennett gain recognition.\n\nAfter marrying Dr. Albert Joseph Jackson in 1927, Bennett resigned from Howard University as the school's administration disapproved of their relationship. That same year, the couple moved to Eustis, Florida. Her time in Florida had a negative impact on her work as it was too far from Harlem for her to receive substantial news to write about in her column for \"Opportunity\". Due to the racism they encountered and their town's financial problems, they remained in Florida for only three years and moved to Long Island in 1930. Bennett began to write more frequently after working with the Federal Writers Project and Federal Art Project. After losing their home in Long Island, Jackson died in 1936 and Bennett moved back to New York.\n\nIn 1940, she married educator and writer Richard Crosscup, who was of European ancestry. Their interracial marriage was not socially acceptable at Bennett's time. Harlem remained Bennett's passion, however, and during the late 1930s and the 1940s she remained in the arts. She served as a member of the Harlem Artists Guild in 1935, and the Harlem Community Art Center was under her leadership from 1939 to 1944. During this time, she was also active on the board of the Negro Playwright's Guild and involved with the development of the George Washington Carver Community School.\n\nIn 1941, the FBI continuously investigated Bennett on suspicion that she was a Communist and continued to do so on and off until 1959 despite no conclusive or evidential findings. However, this experience caused her to remove herself from the public eye and she began working as a secretary for the Consumers Union . Bennett retired in 1968 and moved with her husband, Crosscup, to the small town of Kutztown, Pennsylvaniawhere they opened an antique shop called Buttonwood Hollow Antiques.\n\nIn 1980, her husband died of heart failure, and Bennett herself passed away from cardiovascular complications on May 30, 1981, at the Reading Hospital in Reading, Pennsylvania.\nThroughout Bennett's life, she has achieved many successes in multiple different fields of work. Bennett was a “Poet, short-story writer, columnist, journalist, illustrator, graphic artist, arts educator, teacher and administrator on the New York City Works Progress Administration Federal Arts Project (1935-1941).[1]\n\nAs a poet in particularly, twenty-two of Bennett’s poems appeared in journals published during the Harlem Renaissance: “Crisis, Opportunity, Palms, and Gypsy...William Stanley Braithwaite Anthology of Magazine Verse for 1927 and Yearbook of American Poetry (1927), Countee Cullen's Caroling Dusk (1927), and James Weldon Johnson's The Book of American Negro Poetry (1931). [2] Bennett’s poems also appeared in ‘Opportunity, and Fire!! without ever publishing her work herself. Bennett gained poetic success with the recognition of these several journals and writers with appreciation of the messages behind her words during this period; the Harlem Renaissance. [3]\nWORKS CITED:\n\n[4]\n\n[5]\n\nAnnamariaLB (talk) 05:44, 30 May 2019 (UTC)Annamaria B.\n\n\n\n\nHer work is featured in numerous anthologies of the period, including the following:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1926527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926527", "title": "Portrait Gallery of Canada", "text": "Portrait Gallery of Canada\n\nThe Portrait Gallery of Canada () is a Canadian art collection specialising in portraiture. It was established on 23 January 2001 by the Government of Canada as a program of Library and Archives Canada.\n\nSince the nineteenth century, the Library has gathered an extensive collection of paintings and portraits, almost all of which are in storage in its archives in Gatineau, Quebec. A plan to permanently house the collection in a gallery in Ottawa, Ontario, across the street from the Parliament Buildings, was announced in 2001, and initial plans called for its opening in 2004/2005, but this plan is now defunct. Library and Archives Canada is instead partnering with museums, galleries and other institutions across the country to showcase the collection.\n\nThe proposed new gallery in Ottawa would have created a public location to display this collection. In the meantime, the Portrait Gallery of Canada is displaying its collection to the public in travelling exhibitions. Its \"Portraits in the Streets\" series brought portrait reproductions to urban areas of Canadian cities, including Ottawa, Quebec City, and, in 2010, Vancouver.\n\nRenovations and additions were underway until 2006 at the former location of the American Embassy, at 100 Wellington Street in Ottawa. It was intended that this building would house the gallery's collection upon its completion, projected for 2007. However, the project was put on hold in 2006 by the Conservative government, who considered locating the museum in Calgary and for it to be partially funded by the energy company EnCana.\n\nIn particular, there were discussions with EnCana about including the museum in the company's office tower then under construction in Calgary. As of June 2007, construction of additional gallery space had not started, and two weeks later, EnCana announced that the gallery would not be moving into their new office tower in Calgary.\n\nA competition for private sector corporations to house the collection attracted bids from Edmonton, Calgary and Ottawa, but that competition was cancelled in November 2008. The idea of locating a gallery outside of Ottawa resulted in a motion before the Senate that would have made it illegal to move the gallery outside Ottawa.\n\n"}
{"id": "1926528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926528", "title": "Mayo Clinic Health System Event Center", "text": "Mayo Clinic Health System Event Center\n\nThe Mayo Clinic Health System Event Center is a 5,280-seat (8,200 for concerts) multi-purpose arena in Mankato, Minnesota, built in 1994 and opened in early 1995. It is home to the Minnesota State Mavericks men's ice hockey team and also hosts musical performances, conventions and other events. Prior to its construction, the team played their home games at All Seasons Arena, which is now their main practice facility.\n\nUntil April 1, 2019, the arena's naming sponsor was Verizon Communications, one of America's major telecommunications companies.\n\nIn the 1992 general election, Mankato voters approved a 0.5% tax increment to support downtown renovations, including construction of a new sports arena. Construction began in 1994, and the facility opened as the Mankato Civic Center in 1995 with a men's hockey event on February 3. The south side of the complex incorporates the restored exterior of the First National Bank of Mankato, a 1913 Prairie School building.\n\nIn 1999, locally headquartered phone company Midwest Wireless purchased the naming rights, changing the venue's name to the Midwest Wireless Civic Center.\n\nIn July 2007, the facility's name changed to the Alltel Center following Alltel's acquisition of Midwest Wireless. Alltel paid $110,000 per year for naming rights.\n\nIn 2009, the name changed again, this time to the Verizon Wireless Center, after Alltel was acquired by Verizon Wireless.\n\nIn 2015, an expansion of the facility began with the purchase and demolition of the adjacent US Bank building. Construction was completed the following year, and the additional space with room for up to 2,000 more people opened on September 1, 2016. The name of the new facility was originally intended to be the Event Center, but prior to opening the City of Mankato decided to call it the Performing Arts Center instead to better reflect the anticipated usage primarily for musical and theatrical events.\n\nIn 2017, Verizon dropped \"Wireless\" from the name and the facility became simply the Verizon Center. The Performing Arts Center was also renamed the Grand Hall later in the year.\n\nIn March 2019, it was announced that Verizon would not be renewing its naming rights agreement. On April 1, 2019, the facility's name reverted to Mankato Civic Center, and remained so through the end of the year.\n\nOn December 30, 2019, the City of Mankato announced a new naming rights agreement with Mayo Clinic Health Systems effective January 1, 2020.\n\nPrimarily, the Center hosts hockey games, concerts and conventions.\n\nNotable past artists and events include Aerosmith, Disney Live, Elton John, James Taylor, Jeff Dunham, John Mellencamp, Kenny Rogers, KISS, Monster Jam, Tom Petty and WWE Live.\n\n"}
{"id": "1926529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926529", "title": "Franco Fontana", "text": "Franco Fontana\n\nFranco Fontana (born 9 December 1933) is an Italian photographer. He is best known for his abstract colour landscapes. \n\nFranco Fontana was born in 1933 in Modena. He started making photographs in the 1950s when he was working as a decorator in a furniture showroom. In 1961 he joined an amateur club which was a turning point in his career, and went on to exhibit solo in 1965 at the Società Fotografica Subalpina, Turin, and in 1968 in Modena, at the Galleria della Sala di Cultura. Since then he has participated in more than 400 group and individual exhibitions.\n\nFontana has photographed for advertising campaigns for brands such as Fiat, Volkswagen, Ferrovie dello Stato (National Italian Railways), Snam, Sony, Volvo, Versace, Canon, Kodak, Robe di Kappa, Swissair, and has been a magazine photographer for publications including \"Time,\" \"Life,\" \"Vogue\" (USA and France), \"Venerdì di Repubblica,\" Panorama, and with the Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung and \"The New York Times\" newspapers.\n\n\"Skyline,\" Fontana's first book, was published in 1978 in France by Contrejour and in Italy by Punto e Virgola with a text of Helmut Gernsheim and he has gone on to produce numerous publications of his works.\n\nCurrently Fontana is the art director of the \"Toscana Fotofestival.\"\n\nHe has received numerous awards, such as the 1989 Tokyo Photographer Society of Japan - The 150 Years of Photography - Photographer Award.\n\nFontana is above all interested in the interplay of colours and he has based his own vibrant and original language on that. His early innovations in colour photography in the 1960s were stylistically disruptive, noted by critics to have \"destroyed the schema, practices, and technical choices of the Italian tradition.\" . Fontana uses 35mm cameras, and as Zahar notes, images distant viewpoints with telephoto lenses to flatten contours in a landscape of crops and fields into bands of intense, saturated colour, effects that Levefre dubs a 'dialectical landscapism'. Of his use of colour in his 2019 retrospective exhibition \"Sintesi\" ('Synthesis') at Fondazione Modena Arti Visive, curator Diana Baldon notes;\n\n“His bold geometric compositions are characterised by shimmering colours, level perspectives and a geometric-formalist and minimal language...By adopting this approach during the 1960s, Fontana injected a new vitality into the field of creative colour photography for then multicolour was not in fashion in art photography...The way Fontana shoots, dematerialises the objects photographed, which loose three-dimensionality and realism to become part of an abstract drawing”.\n\nAside from the rural landscape Fontana has applied his graphic sensibility to other subjects: city architecture, portraiture, fashion, still-life and the nude.\n\n\nAs well as in books, Fontana's photos have been used as album cover art for records produced by the ECM Records jazz label. \n\n"}
{"id": "1926540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926540", "title": "Big tent", "text": "Big tent\n\nBig tent or catch-all party is used in reference to a political party's policy of permitting or encouraging a broad spectrum of views among its members. This is in contrast to other parties that defend a determined ideology and seek voters who adhere to that ideology and convince people towards it.\n\nFollowing the 2018 Armenian parliamentary election, the My Step Alliance rose to power on an anti-corruption and pro-democracy platform. The alliance has been described as maintaining a big tent ideology, as the alliance does not support any one particular political position. Instead, it focuses on strengthening Armenia's civil society and economic development.\n\nThe Liberal Party of Australia and its predecessors originated as an alliance of liberals and conservatives in opposition to the Australian Labor Party, beginning with the Commonwealth Liberal Party in 1909. This ideological distinction has endured to the present day, with the modern Liberal Party frequently described as a \"broad church\", a term popularised by former leader and Prime Minister John Howard. In this context, \"broad church\" is largely synonymous with \"big tent\". In the 21st century, the party is often characterised as having a \"small-l liberal\" wing and a conservative wing, which frequently come into conflict with each other. The party has historically been found strong support primarily from the middle-class, though has in recent decades appealed to socially conservative working-class voters.\n\nFrom its foundation the Justicialist Party has been a Peronist catch-all party, which focuses on the figure of Juan Perón and his wife Eva.\n\nThe Brazilian Democratic Movement is a centrist and big tent party.\n\nAt the federal level, Canada has been dominated by two big tent parties practicing \"brokerage politics\". Both the Liberal Party of Canada and the Conservative Party of Canada (or its predecessors) rely on attracting supports from a broad spectrum of voters. Far-right and far-left politics have never been a prominent force in Canadian society.\n\nThe centre-right National Coalition Party has been described as catch-all party supporting the interests of the urban middle classes.\n\nThe La République En Marche! party founded by President Emmanuel Macron has been described as a centrist party with a catch-all nature.\n\nBoth the Christian Democratic Union of Germany/Christian Social Union in Bavaria (CDU/CSU) and the Social Democratic Party of Germany (SPD) are considered big tent or catch-all parties, known in German as \"Volksparteien\" (\"people's parties\").\n\nThe Indian National Congress attracted support from Indians of all classes, castes and religions opposed to the British Empire.\n\nThe Janata Party which came into power in India in 1977, was a catch-all party which consisted of people with different ideologies opposed to The Emergency.\n\nFine Gael and Fianna Fáil are considered catch-all parties, both being supported by people from different social classes and political ideologies. Both parties are however usually described as being very similar, and are positioned on the centre-right with a liberal conservative ideology. The reason they remain separate is due mainly to historical factors, with those who supported the Anglo-Irish Treaty in the 1920s eventually becoming Fine Gael, and those opposed would join Fianna Fáil and seek an independent Ireland.\n\nIn Italy, the Five Star Movement led by comedian and actor Beppe Grillo has been described as a catch-all, protest party and \"post-ideological big tent\" because its supporters do not share similar policy preferences, are split on major economic and social issues and are united largely based on \"anti-establishment\" sentiments. The Five Star Movement's \"successful campaign formula combined anti-establishment sentiments with an economic and political protest which extends beyond the boundaries of traditional political orientations\", yet its \"'catch-all' formula\" has limited its ability to become \"a mature, functional, effective and coherent contender for government\". The Northern League attracted voters in its early years from all the political spectrum. Forza Italia on the centre-right and the Democratic Party on the centre-left are considered catch-all parties, both having been formed from mergers of political parties with numerous ideological backgrounds.\n\nThe Institutional Revolutionary Party (PRI) which held power in Mexico for 71 uninterrupted years from 1929 to 2000 was founded following the Mexican Revolution. Mexican president Plutarco Elías Calles founded the PRI, then known as the National Revolutionary Party, in 1929 with the intent of providing a political space in which all the surviving leaders and combatants of the Mexican Revolution could participate, and to solve the grave political crisis caused by the assassination of president-elect Álvaro Obregón in 1928. Throughout its nine-decade existence, the PRI has adopted a very wide array of ideologies (often determined by the President of the Republic in turn). It nationalized the petroleum industry in the 1940s and the banking industry in the 1970s. In the 1980s, the party went through reforms that shaped its current incarnation, with policies characterized as centre-right, such as the privatization of State-run companies, closer relations with the Catholic church, and embracing free-market capitalism and neoliberal policies.\n\nThe National Regeneration Movement, founded by the current president of Mexico Andrés Manuel López Obrador, has often been described as a big tent party due to its various constituents that joined its ranks during the 2018 general elections.\n\nThe centre-left Socialist Party (PS) and centre-right Social Democratic Party (PSD) have been described as catch-all parties.\n\nCitizens, or simply \"Cs\" (Ciudadanos, in Spanish) has been considered as an example of astroturfing in the Spanish media since 2015. Originally founded as a social democratic regional party opposed to Catalan nationalism, it switched to a catch-all message in order to attract votes from the right to the moderate left in its appearance in the national political landscape. Its stance includes a mix of liberalism and pro-Europeanism, but the party has also embraced populist views on the legitimacy of its political opponents, conservative views on topics such as the criminal system and personal property and Spanish nationalist positions without many problems by its own leader, Albert Rivera, becoming one of the most recognisable \"catch-all\" parties in the history of the country. In the mid 2010s, however, the party's main ideology is perceived to have drifted towards the right, with Albert Rivera admitting that they would not agree to form a coalition with the two main centre-left and left parties after the 2019 Spanish general elections, regardless of the results. In addition to this, some commentators argue that after the 2019 Spanish general election, Ciudadanos has attempted to become the hegemonic party of the right in the place of the People's Party, which suffered from massive loses in vote percentage and seats in the Congress of Deputies, thus contributing to its shift to the right.\nSimilarly, in the regional parliaments CS has allied with both the People's Party and also with the extreme right-wing party Vox to achieve coalitions. Thus giving rise to the expression \"the three rights\" while defining their opposition as \"the left\".\n\nThe African National Congress (ANC) has been the governing party of South Africa since the country's first democratic election in 1994 and has been described by the media as a \"big tent\" party. An important aspect of its electoral success has been its ability to include a diverse range of political groups most notably in the form of the Tripartite Alliance between the ANC, the South African Communist Party, and the country's largest trade union COSATU. Additional interest groups included in the party include members of the business community and traditional leaders.\n\nWhen Gordon Brown became British Prime Minister in 2007, he invited several members from outside the Labour Party into his government. These included former CBI Director-General Digby Jones who became a Minister of State and former Liberal Democrats leader Paddy Ashdown who was offered the position of Northern Ireland Secretary (Ashdown turned down the offer). The media often referred to Brown's ministry as \"a government of all the talents\" or simply \"Brown's big tent\".\n\nThe Brexit Party, founded by Nigel Farage, may be considered a single-issue big tent party as it ran candidates in the 2019 European Parliament election from across the political spectrum, including conservative Ann Widdecombe and right-wing libertarian Claire Fox.\n\nIn Scotland, the Scottish National Party is possibly the longest established big tent party in the UK, with the goal of seeking Scottish independence by those that support various other political ideologies and from various political positions.\n\nThe Democratic Party during the New Deal coalition, formed in support of Franklin D. Roosevelt's New Deal policies from 1930s until 1960s, was a \"big-tent\" party. This coalition brought together labor unions, working-class voters, farm organizations, liberals, Southern Democrats, African Americans, urban voters and immigrants.\n\nThe Blue Dog Coalition is a big-tent caucus of centrist and conservative Democrats in the House of Representatives, some being socially conservative and fiscally and economically progressive or vice versa. For a brief period following the 2006 and 2008 elections, when Democrats held a majority in the House, this caucus wielded increased influence over the party, but its power declined again after a large majority of its members were defeated or retired in the 2010 election. Its Republican counterpart is the Republican Main Street Partnership.\n\nIn counter to the New Deal coalition, the Republican Party was for much of its history a \"big tent\" party that encompassed a wide range of right-wing and center-right causes, including a wide range of politicians who were fiscally conservative and socially moderate or liberal and vice versa. During the 1970s and 1980s, the Republican party attracted support from wealthy suburban voters in the South and Midwest, Northeastern moderates, Western libertarians, and rural conservatives across the country. From 1968 to 1988, Republicans won five out of six presidential elections, with the only exception being a narrow loss to Democrat Jimmy Carter in 1976. The culture wars of the 1990s and the growing influence of the Christian right within the party prompted the socially moderate and liberal sections of the Republican base, particularly in the Northeast and Midwest, to begin slowly leaving the party in favor of moderate Democrats or independents. As a result, Republicans have lost the national popular vote in six out of seven presidential elections since 1992, while winning narrow Electoral College victories three times. However, moderate Republicans continued to thrive at the state level until the dawn of the 21st century.\n\nFollowing the 1974 Dallas Accord, the Libertarian Party embraced the big tent idea to the extent it ensured that the anarcho-capitalist views would not be excluded from the majority minarchist party.\n\n"}
{"id": "1926541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926541", "title": "Hayward Field", "text": "Hayward Field\n\nHayward Field was a historic track and field stadium in the northwest United States, located on the campus of the University of Oregon in Nearly a century in age, it has been the home of the university's track and field teams since 1921, and was the on-campus home of the varsity football team from 1919 through 1966.\n\nHayward Field was named after track coach Bill Hayward (1868–1947), who ran the Ducks' program from 1904 to 1947. Renovated in 2004, it is one of only five International Association of Athletics Federations Class 1 certified tracks in the United States (along with Hutsell-Rosen Track, Icahn Stadium, John McDonnell Field, and Rock Chalk Park). The elevation of Hayward Field is approximately above sea level and its infield has a conventional north-south orientation. The Pacific Ocean is approximately to the west, separated by the \n\nIn 2018, the stadium was demolished and will be rebuilt on the same site. Expected to reopen in 2020, the new stadium is financed by UO's philanthropic community, with alumnus Phil Knight as the \n\nHayward was built in 1919 to replace Kincaid Field, and was intended to primarily serve the school's football During halftime of the season opener that year, the venue was named for track coach Hayward; he was busy working as the team's trainer during the break, and did not know of the honor until the following day. In 1921, a six-lane cinder track was constructed around the football field. Renowned architect Ellis F. Lawrence designed the west grandstand, which opened in 1925. A natural grass field was first installed at Hayward Field in 1937; the surface was previously a mixture of dirt and sawdust. That field surface was not unique in the Northwest in the Pacific Coast Conference: Bell Field in Corvallis, Multnomah Stadium in Portland, and Husky Stadium in Seattle made similar transitions to natural grass in this period of time. \n\nFor most of its existence as a football venue, it was notorious for its poor playing conditions in rainy weather. Despite several improvement efforts, the field didn't drain very well even after the switch to grass, and often turned to mud.\n\nIn 1949, a 28-row grandstand in the south end zone was constructed; with temporary bleachers in adjacent corners, the venue's capacity was raised to 22,500 for football. Even with these changes, by the 1960s, the football team had long since outgrown Hayward Field, which was one of the smallest stadiums in the University Division (forerunner of Division I). Only 9,000 tickets were available to the general public. While nearly every seat was protected from the elements, it had little else going for it. It was in such poor condition that coaches deliberately steered prospective recruits away from it on their visits to Eugene. \n\nAs a result, outside of the Civil War game with Oregon State, the Ducks played their higher-attended home games (in practice, nearly all of their conference games) at Portland's Multnomah Stadium, away. Athletic director Leo Harris chafed at making the Ducks make the two-hour trip to Portland three times a year, and pressed for a new stadium on land just north of campus. School president Arthur Flemming was initially skeptical of the project, and asked Skidmore, Owings & Merrill to evaluate whether it was feasible to build the stadium on the northern site, expand Hayward Field to up to 40,000 seats (believed to be the minimum capacity for moving the entire home slate to Eugene), or build a new stadium on Hayward Field's footprint. The study definitively ruled out Hayward Field as the site for a new or renovated football stadium. SOM believed that city officials would never sign off on expanding Hayward Field since it hadn't been built to code, and there was no room to build a new stadium on Hayward's footprint. \n\nAs a result, Hayward Field's final varsity football game was played in 1966, a one-point loss to Washington State on Its replacement, Autzen Stadium, opened in September 1967, and Hayward Field became a facility solely for track and field, except for a few freshman team football games.\n\nThe track was widened to eight lanes late in the summer of 1969 and converted to an all-weather surface that autumn. Its first synthetic track was Pro-Turf, a urethane and sand composite which led to a hard and fast surface; it produced many world records and gained a reputation as the world's fastest track. Light in color, it was resurfaced with the same in 1976.\n\nDecayed and in disrepair, the original west grandstand was built in 1925 and its roof added demolished in and the finish line (for most events) was moved to the track's northeast corner for the 1974 season. The new west grandstand, also made of wood with a capacity of 4,300 spectators, was ready for use in March 1975. The Prefontaine Classic originated as the \"Hayward Field Restoration Meet\" to help raise funds for a new \n\nThe track was converted to metric in the summer of 1987, its lap length changed from to 400 meters, a reduction of . The geometry of the track was changed to the international configuration, with shorter straights and longer turns. This widening of the infield required the relocation of the , 500-ton east grandstand, which was raised and moved east in March. The surface was again Pro-Turf, but with different surface properties; a textured top layer and a reddish color. In addition, a 200 m warmup track was added to the southwest of the main track, along with a new hammer throw area and a weight room facility. A state-of-the-art scoreboard was added in 1991, which gave unofficial times and competitors' placings just seconds after race completion. This project was completed with a great deal of help from the Oregon Track Club as well as the efforts of many others. Bill McChesney SR who is the father of the Oregon 5K record holder and 1980 Olympian, Bill McChesney, was president of the OTC at the time and was one of the key members of the community that made this project possible.\n\nAfter a donation in 1990 by Bill Bowerman (1911–1999), UO's longtime track coach (1948–1973), the Bowerman Building was added to the northwest of the track, housing locker rooms, U of O track memorabilia and the university's International Institute for Sport and Human Performance. Bowerman began a public jogging program at Hayward Field in 1963 after a visit to New Zealand, inspired by coach Arthur Lydiard.\n\nA major renovation in 2004 added a new entrance named Powell Plaza. It also moved the practice track, expanded it to 400 meters, and replaced the aging fencing bordering the complex. After Hayward Field was awarded the 2008 U.S. Olympic Trials, it underwent additional renovations in 2007. Eight light poles were installed for televised night events, and the crowned infield was removed and reconfigured. A walkway was added behind the west grandstand, and a new scoreboard was installed, thanks to a donation by alumnus Phil Knight and Nike.\n\nOn April 17, 2018, it was announced that from the summer of 2018 to 2020, Hayward field would undergo a major renovation. The renovation would demolish both current grandstands and establish a new stadium around the track with a capacity of 12,900, expandable to nearly 30,000 for major events.\n\nHayward Field has hosted USATF championships in 1986, 1993, 1999, 2001, 2009, 2011, and 2015 and the Olympic trials in 1972, 1976, 1980, 2008, 2012, and 2016. It has been the site of numerous NCAA championships, USATF Elite Running Circuit events, and the annual Nike Prefontaine Classic. The Olympic trials are scheduled to return in 2021 in the \n\nThe World Junior Championships, now known as the World U20 Championships, were held at Hayward Field in 2014, and the World Championships are scheduled for the new stadium \n\nHayward Field appeared in a fictionalized staging of the Olympic trials for the 1982 film \"Personal Best\", in the 1998 biography of Steve Prefontaine \"Without Limits\", and Alexi Pappas's \"Tracktown\" (2016). It was in the background of the ROTC drill scene of \"Animal House\" \n\nOregon Ducks who competed at Hayward Field\n\n"}
{"id": "1926550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926550", "title": "Charles McMahon and Darwin Judge", "text": "Charles McMahon and Darwin Judge\n\nCharles McMahon (May 10, 1953 – April 29, 1975) and Darwin Lee Judge (February 16, 1956 – April 29, 1975) were the last two United States servicemen killed in Vietnam during the Vietnam War. The two men, both U.S. Marines, were killed in a rocket attack one day before the Fall of Saigon.\n\nCharles McMahon, 11 days short of his 22nd birthday, was a Corporal from Woburn, Massachusetts. Darwin Judge was a 19-year-old Lance Corporal and Eagle Scout from Marshalltown, Iowa.\n\nMcMahon and Judge were members of the Marine Security Guard (MSG) Battalion at the US Embassy, Saigon and were providing security for the DAO Compound, adjacent to Tân Sơn Nhứt Airport, Saigon. McMahon had arrived in Saigon on 18 April, while Judge had arrived in early March. Both died in a North Vietnamese rocket attack on Tân Sơn Nhứt on the morning of April 29, 1975.\n\nIn accordance with procedures for deceased Americans in Vietnam, their bodies were transferred to the Saigon Adventist Hospital, near Tan Son Nhut. In telephone calls to the hospital on the afternoon of April 29, the few remaining staff advised that the bodies had been evacuated; in fact the bodies were left behind. Operation Frequent Wind, the American evacuation of Saigon, was completed the following day, April 30, 1975. Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts, through diplomatic channels, secured the return of the bodies the following year.\n\nJudge was buried with full military honors in March 1976 in Marshalltown, Iowa. There was a flag draped coffin, a Marine Honor Guard, and a rifle firing salute. The flag that covered his coffin was folded and presented to his parents. His funeral was so ignored that major and minor media did not attend the event. The lone exception was the \"Daily Iowan\" (Iowa City, Iowa). A full set of photographs of the event is available. Due to ignorance of his military funeral in March 1976, Judge was given a second Marine burial honors 25 years later through planning by Douglas Potratz, USMC MSG who served with Judge in Saigon and Ken Locke, boyhood friend and fellow Eagle Scout; retired USMC Lieutenant Colonel Jim Kean, the commanding officer of the Marines during the Fall of Saigon, presented a flag to Judge's parents at a ceremony held at the Iowa Veteran's Home Vietnam War Memorial. The Fall of Saigon Marines Association, a California non-profit, public-benefit corporation, was formed to honor the last two Marines to be killed in action in Vietnam. The association sponsors two $500 scholarships for Eagle Scouts attending Marshalltown High School in Marshalltown, Iowa (as a memorial to Eagle Scout Judge).\n\nThe first U.S. casualty in Vietnam was Flying Tiger John T. Donovan who was killed on May 12, 1942, but American involvement in Vietnam was not considered official at that time and as such his name does not appear on the Vietnam Veterans Memorial.\n\nFor over 40 years the first American serviceman who died in Vietnam was in controversy. Richard B. Fitzgibbon Jr.'s death in June 1956 was deemed to have taken place before the start of the Vietnam War. However, the family of Fitzgibbon had long lobbied to have the start date changed and their cause was taken up by U.S. Representative Ed Markey (D-MA). After a high level review by the DoD and through the efforts of Fitzgibbon's family, the start date of the Vietnam war was changed to November 1, 1955. The November 1955 date was chosen as the new start date because that was when the Military Assistance Advisory Group (MAAG) in Vietnam was separated out from \"MAAG, Indochina\". This was a reorganization of the MAAG into the different countries. With this new date Fitzgibbon became the first person to die in the Vietnam War, Fitzgibbon's name was added to the Vietnam Memorial Wall in 1999. The former first two official casualties were U.S. Army major Dale R. Buis and Master Sergeant Chester Charles Ovnand who were killed on July 8, 1959.\n\nWhile McMahon and Judge were the last American ground casualties in Vietnam, they are not the last casualties of the Vietnam War (a term which also covers the U.S. involvement in Cambodia and Laos) recorded on the Vietnam Veterans Memorial; those names belong to the 18 Americans killed in the Mayaguez Incident.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1926557", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926557", "title": "Old White Horse Inn", "text": "Old White Horse Inn\n\nThe Old White Horse Inn in Bingley, West Yorkshire, England, is one of the oldest buildings still in use in the town. It was originally constructed as a coaching inn in the mid-seventeenth century, strategically positioned with Ireland Bridge on the one side and the Parish church on the other. The building is an English Grade II listed building and has a significant amount of coaching inn infrastructure surviving including a stable, barn and two coach entrances which are located around an inner courtyard. On each side of the gable are stone lanterns that denote the former owners Order of Knights of St John of Jerusalem. There is evidence that a hostelry has been on the site since 1379.\n\n"}
{"id": "1926558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926558", "title": "Authentication server", "text": "Authentication server\n\nAn authentication server provides a network service that applications use to authenticate the credentials, usually account names and passwords, of their users. When a client submits a valid set of credentials, it receives a cryptographic ticket that it can subsequently use to access various services.\n\nAuthentication is used as the basis for authorization, which is the determination whether a privilege may be granted to a particular user or process, privacy, which keeps information from becoming known to non-participants, and non-repudiation, which is the inability to deny having done something that was authorized to be done based on the authentication.\n\nMajor authentication algorithms include passwords, Kerberos, and public key encryption.\n\n"}
{"id": "1926563", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926563", "title": "Sister Kate (TV series)", "text": "Sister Kate (TV series)\n\nSister Kate is an American sitcom television series created by Frank Dungan, Jeff Stein and Tony Sheehan, that aired on NBC from September 16, 1989 to July 30, 1990, during the 1989–1990 television season.\n\nThe series stars Stephanie Beacham as Sister Kate, a nun and a biblical archaeologist who is transferred from an archaeological dig to Redemption House, an orphanage in Chicago. Sister Kate is put in charge of a group of unwanted orphans who, due to their scheming ways, have already run off three priests. Storylines involved Sister Kate (nicknamed \"Sister Mary Rambo\") matching wits with the kids, and the kids' potential adoptions.\n\n\"Sister Kate\" premiered on Saturday, September 16, 1989 at 9:30 EST, and was moved to 8:00 EST on Sundays for the remainder of its run. The low-rated series was canceled after eighteen episodes, due to competition from ABC's \"America's Funniest Home Videos\", and the first half of CBS's \"Murder, She Wrote\".\n\n\nRob Pilatus and Fabrice Morvan appeared as Milli Vanilli in the January 7, 1990 episode \"Eugene's Feat\", speaking a few lines in their natural voices before (what was later revealed to be) lip-synching their hit \"Blame It on the Rain\".\n\nThe series theme song, \"Maybe An Angel\", was performed by contemporary christian music pop star Amy Grant and written by Brian Rawlings and Mason Cooper.\n\n"}
{"id": "1926571", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926571", "title": "Brand loyalty", "text": "Brand loyalty\n\nBrand loyalty is the positive feelings towards a brand and dedication to purchase the same product or service repeatedly, regardless of a competitor's actions or changes in the environment. It can also be demonstrated with other behaviors such as positive word-of-mouth advocacy. Corporate Brand loyalty is where an individual buys products from the same manufacturer repeatedly and without wavering rather than from other suppliers. Loyalty implies dedication and should not be confused with habit with its less than emotional engagement and commitment. Businesses whose financial and ethical values, for example ESG responsibilities, rest in large part on their brand loyalty are said to use the loyalty business model.\n\nBrand loyalty, in marketing, consists of a consumer's commitment to repurchase or continue to use the brand. It can be demonstrated by repeated buying of a product, service, or other positive behaviors such as word of mouth advocacy. This concept of a brand displays imagery and symbolism for a product or range of products. Brands can have the power to engage consumers and make them feel emotionally attached. Consumer's beliefs and attitudes make up brand images, and these affect how they will view brands with which they come into contact. Brand experience occurs when consumers shop or search for, and consume products. Holistic experiences such as sense, relation, acting and feeling occur when one comes into contact with brands. The stronger and more relational these senses are to the individual, the more likely repeat purchase behavior will occur. After contact has been made, psychological reasoning will occur, followed by a buy or not-buy decision. This can result in repeat purchase behavior, thus incurring the beginning brand loyalty. Brand loyalty is not limited to repeat purchase behavior, as there is deeper psychological reasoning as to why an individual will continuously re-purchase products from one brand. Brand loyalty can be shortly defined as the \"behavioral willingness\" to consistently maintain relations with a particular brand. In a survey of nearly 200 senior marketing managers, 68 percent responded that they found the \"loyalty\" metric very useful.\n\nTrue brand loyalty occurs when consumers are willing to pay higher prices for a certain brand and go out of their way for the brand, or think highly of it.\n\nBrand loyalty can predict brand performance outcomes. It also highlights the importance of marketing communication when trying to promote a certain product that's not doing as well as other brands. Marketers are able to look at the patterns of brand loyalty and pick out characteristics that make that product thrive.\n\nExamples of brand loyalty promotions include My Coke Rewards, Pepsi Stuff and Marriott Rewards.\nBrand loyalty in marketing, consists of a consumer's devotion, bond, and commitment to repurchase and continue to use a brands product or service over time, regardless of changes with competitors pricing or changes in the external environment. Brand loyalty reflects a customer's commitment to remain in a relationship for a long period of time with a brand.\n\nA critical factor of building brand loyalty is developing a connection or relationship between the consumer and the brand. When an emotional relationship is created between the consumer and the brand this leads to a strong bond and a competitive advantage for that particular brand. Loyalty consists of both attitudinal and behavioral components. Attitudinal loyalty relates to the customers willingness to purchase product or service from the brand at any reasonable cost. Behavioral loyalty is the re-purchasing. Both behavioral and attitudinal components are important. One example is that a consumer displays behavioral loyalty by buying Coke when there are few alternatives available and attitudinal loyalty when they will not buy an alternative brand when Coke is not available. The attitudinal component is psychological, this leads to the behavioural action of repeat purchase. It is the attitudinal loyalty that drives most loyalty behavior and ensures loyalty over time not just with one purchase. “Brand loyalty is desired by firms because retention of existing customers is less costly than obtaining new ones. Firms profit from having loyal customers”.\n\nBrand loyalty has shown to profit firms by saving them a lot of money. Benefits associated with loyal consumers include:\n\nGenerally speaking, brand loyalty will increase profit over time as firms do not have to spend as much time and money on maintaining relationships or marketing to existing consumers. Loyal long-term customers spend more money with a firm.\n\nBrand loyalty is more than simple repurchasing. Customers may repurchase a brand due to situational constraints (such as vendor lock-in), a lack of viable alternatives, or out of convenience. Such loyalty is referred to as \"spurious loyalty\".\n\nA recent study showed that customer loyalty is affected by customer satisfaction, but the association differs based on customer switching costs (procedural, relational, and financial). True brand loyalty exists when customers have a high relative attitude toward the brand which is then exhibited through repurchase behavior. This type of loyalty can be a great asset to the firm: customers are willing to pay higher prices, they may cost less to serve, and can bring new customers to the firm. For example, if Joe has brand loyalty to Company A he will purchase Company A's products even if Company B's are cheaper and/or of a higher quality. From the point of view of many marketers, loyalty to the brand — in terms of consumer usage — is a key factor. However, companies often ensure that they are not spending resources to retain loyal but unprofitable customers.\n\nUsage rate\n\nMost important is usually the 'rate' of usage, to which the Pareto 80-20 Rule applies. Kotler's 'heavy users' are likely to be disproportionately important to the brand (typically, 20 percent of users accounting for 80 percent of usage — and of suppliers' profit). As a result, suppliers often segment their customers into 'heavy', 'medium' and 'light' users; as far as they can, they target 'heavy users'. However, research shows that heavy users of a brand are not always the most profitable for a company.\n\nLoyalty\n\nA second dimension, is whether the customer is committed to the brand. Philip Kotler, again, defines four status of loyalty:\n\nHumans are attracted to certain brands due to each individual psychological make up. Cognitive responses can be matched with brand personalities. Brand personalities are broken down into 5 categories of traits: sincerity, ruggedness, competence, sophistication and excitement. Consumers are usually drawn to brands because the brand will strongly convey one of these traits, and that trait will resonate in the individual consumers mind. These traits are matched to the five psychological factors that the consumers are influenced by. These are the perception, learning, motivation, and beliefs and attitudes. In relation to brand loyalty, the most important factors are beliefs and attitudes. A belief that one might hold can be based on real knowledge, faith or opinion and have the ability to carry an emotional charge. Consumers use these beliefs to form a brand image in their minds, and marketers try to either change or enhance people's beliefs to draw them to their brand. Marketers can advertise messages such as ‘no added sugar’ and then if this statement resonates in the consumers mind, they will believe that this brands beliefs matches theirs Beliefs that consumers hold against brands can also be false, as word of mouth, false advertising and so forth can create false impressions. Marketers will try to counteract these negative beliefs so the consumer feels like they hold similar beliefs as the brand. Attitudes can be based on brand salience and accessibility. Consumers make constant evaluations on every aspect of their lives and these make up attitudes. Ones attitude is usually difficult to change, so marketers try to fit their brands and products into categorical attitudes. Each time a consumer makes contact with a brand (through advertising and promotion), they reflect on their attitudes to make judgements and decisions about that particular brand. If a person's attitude coincides with what a brand is trying to convey, the consumer will put the brand into a ‘liking’ category in their mind. The consumer will then be more likely to increase involvement with this brand, and because attitudes are difficult to change, the chances of brand loyalty occurring are increased.\n\nOther advertising techniques such as comparative advertising have shown to increase the brand attitudes one might have. When a brand praises a competitor, rather than using a negative comparison, consumers are shown to have more positive brand attitudes, therefore drawing them to the brand. Brands may advertise themselves in ways that have nothing to do with their product, but using emotional influences that they know the average consumer will engage with. For example, using religion, world peace, love, death, children and many more symbols that humans can feel sentimental about will attract consumers to their brand Through advertising, marketers are beginning to focus more on implicit emotional messages, rather than the actual content or information about their brand. Consumers take notice of campaigns, and a wave effect can occur, due to the relational sense of the campaign to the common persons emotions. Once an emotional hold has taken force, consumers are more likely to be able to recall the brand than consumers who have been subject to a large amount of content information. Because of this increased level of recall, brand loyalty is more likely to occur, as the brand name is resonating in the consumers mind due to a feeling of emotional attachment. Furthermore, consumers are willing to pay more for a product that has a brand name that resonates with them emotionally.\n\nBuying decisions from consumers can be dependent on their level of involvement with the product or brand. Brand loyalty can stem from whether the consumer is highly or lowly involved with the brand. High involvement consumers interact with brands and products that are important to them, are risky or expensive and products that people who are important to the consumer have strong opinions on. High Involvement consumers will usually progress through complex buying behavior to decide whether they want to purchase a product whose brand greatly differs from others. This involves gaining knowledge of the product, specifications and attributes, and furthermore creating attitudes that lead to the buyer's decision. Similarly, dissonance-reducing buying behavior occurs in the same situation, but instead with brands they see little differences between. This process consists of consumers finding purchase convenience, attractive pricing, and shopping around. High involvement consumers search for more product attributes and engage in more product related activities, such as searching for more information on a product and researching the brands background. This engagement makes consumers aware and knowledgeable of the brands attributes, so therefore they can shape behavioral brand loyalty, as the consumer feels that they know the brand well.\n\nLow involvement consumers take on the habitual buying behavior or variety seeking behavior. These processes occur when a consumer is purchasing fast moving goods and requires a low product involvement level. Habitual behavior occurs when the consumer doesn't see large differences between brands; so therefore don't search for information. Consumers usually purchase on the basis of advertising or promotion creating familiarity. The attitudes formed by being exposed to advertisements and promotions are what can cause brand loyalty to occur. The limited amount of information processing and lack of cognitive work done to assess each brand can mean that these consumers stick with a brand simply because it is less work. Low involvement consumers are using short-cut evaluations so a known brand name that they haven't thought deep enough to find faults in will be an easy buy-decision for them. Habitual buying behavior can result in brand loyalty subconsciously. The consumer isn't actively aware they want to purchase repeatedly from a particular brand, it is just in their habitual nature to do so. Alternatively, low involvement consumers who are using variety seeking behavior see differences between brands and tend to do a lot of switching. To attempt to persuade these consumers into habitual buying behavior, marketers will try to dominate shelf space, cut prices or introduce new products. If a low involvement consumer continues to use variety-seeking behavior, brand loyalty is unlikely to be established.\n\nFactors influencing brand loyalty\n\nLoyalty includes some degree of predisposition toward a brand. It is determined by several distinct psychological processes, and it entails multivariate measurements. Customer perceived value, brand trust, customer satisfaction, repeat purchase behavior, and commitment are found to be the key influencing factors of brand loyalty. Commitment and repeated purchase behavior are considered as necessary conditions for brand loyalty followed by perceived value, satisfaction, and brand trust.\"\n\nFred Reichheld, one of the most influential writers on brand loyalty, claimed that enhancing customer loyalty could have dramatic effects on profitability. However, new research shows that the association between customer loyalty and financial outcomes such as firm profitability and stock-market outcomes is not as straightforward as was once believed.\n\nAn organizations ability to attract and retain customers is vital to its success. Customer loyalty requires a strong appetite by the customer for a product. Marketing tools such as integrated marketing communications (IMC) and branding can be used in ways to increase perceived attraction between the consumer and the brand. These tools are used to boost emotional response and attachment to the brand, as well as to influence feelings the customer has for a brand, both are important for congruency and a relationship, this in turn leads to the development of brand loyalty. Relationship development and maintenance can also be achieved through the use of loyalty programs or a celebrity endorser. These can help to increase a bond between a brand and a consumer.\n\nIMC is defined as “integrating a variety of convincing messages across various forms to communicate with and develop relationships with customers”. IMC can be used to convey the brand image, increase awareness, build brand equity, and achieve shared values between the consumer and the brand.\n\nIMC and branding are both relevant marketing tools for increasing the brand loyalty of consumers. The decisions made around communications and branding should be based on solid and factual market research about the consumers. If the brand or the IMC do not seem to be relevant to the target market, consumers will not pay attention. An example of this is that high customization, creativity and a more direct voice is recommended for messages directed towards generation Y consumers as generation Y want to be treated differently from the rest of the market and marketers should acknowledge this.\n\nLoyalty programs help to reward and encourage customers, which is a necessary factor for customers to want to repurchase. The consumer should feel a connection with the brand to want repeat purchase and portray other brand loyalty behaviors such as positive word of mouth. “A loyalty program is an integrated system of marketing actions that aims to make member customers more loyal to a brand”. The main goal of a loyalty program is to create or enhance customer loyalty towards a brand whilst being sustained even after a loyalty program is discontinued. Thus, to an extent a loyalty program motivates customers to change their behavior.\n\nThe reason for marketers to use such tactics as a loyalty program is to increase likelihood of repeat purchase and retrieve vital information about the spending habits of the consumer. Loyalty programs that enhance the consumer's opinion about how much the firm can offer them may be essential for building a relationship. Even though these programs can cost a lot of money, they help to create a relationship between the brand and the consumer. An example of a loyalty program is a simple point system. Frequent customers earn points or dollars, which transform into freebies, discounts, rewards or special treatment of some sort, customers work toward a specific number of points to redeem their benefit.\n\nCelebrity endorsers moderate the relationship between the consumer and the brand by personifying the brand to match the perceptions of the consumer themself. Using a celebrity endorser can facilitate a relationship built between consumers and a brand because endorsers can represent similarities between themselves and the consumer, and themselves and the brand. Celebrities are used to make marketing tactics more convincing and marketing communications more effective.\n\nAn example is that a celebrity may be influential to a generation Y consumer because that generation views them as likeable, real and beautiful. In order for celebrity endorsers to effectively reach the audience, they must connect and identify with the audience. The use of a popular celebrity endorser could personalize the brand for the consumer and create the relationship between the consumer and the brand. To ensure endorsement is successful the celebrity should match the brand and the consumer. The effect of using a celebrity endorser that consumers look up to and want to emulate can lead to increased congruence between the values of the consumers and the brand, and improve the relationship between the two.\n\nIndustrial markets\n\nIn industrial markets, organizations regard the 'heavy users' as 'major accounts' to be handled by senior sales personnel and even managers; whereas the 'light users' may be handled by the general sales force or by a dealer.\n\nPortfolios of brands\n\nAndrew Ehrenberg, then of the London Business School said that consumers buy 'portfolios of brands'. They switch regularly between brands, often because they simply want a change. Thus, 'brand penetration' or 'brand share' reflects only a statistical chance that the majority of customers will buy that brand next time as part of a portfolio of brands they prefer. It does not guarantee that they will stay loyal.\n\nInfluencing the statistical probabilities facing a consumer choosing from a portfolio of preferred brands, which is required in this context, is a very different role for a brand manager; compared with the — much simpler — one traditionally described of recruiting and holding dedicated customers. The concept also emphasizes the need for managing continuity.\n\nWhen brands are well established and have a decent flow of consumers, problems may arise such as slips in product quality, safety of products and lack of customer care. These problems can be detrimental to a brand that has become too confident as they can be publicly exposed and reputations can be ruined. On the contrary, many brands continue to get away with scandals, and it does not affect their image in any way. For example, the Coca-Cola brand has been involved in scandals including murders in Colombia, crimes in India and various health dangers; all relating back to the company name . The power that this brand holds is the fact that Coca-Cola is the top in its field and has a hold over competitors. The reputation of such a massive organization is hard to dent with the powerful distribution rights and funds to create some of the best ad campaigns.\n\nOne of the most prominent features of many markets is their overall stability — or \"marketing inertia\". Thus, in their essential characteristics they change very slowly, often over decades — sometimes centuries — rather than over months.\n\nThis stability has two very important implications. The first is that those who are clear brand leaders are especially well placed in relation to their competitors and should want to further the inertia which lies behind that stable position. This, however, still demands a continuing pattern of minor changes to keep up with the marginal changes in consumer taste (which may be minor to the theorist but will still be crucial in terms of those consumers' purchasing patterns as markets do not favor the over-complacent). These minor investments are a small price to pay for the long term profits which brand leaders usually enjoy.\n\nThe second, and more important, is that someone who wishes to overturn this stability and change the market (or significantly change one's position in it), massive investments must be expected to be made in order to succeed. Even though stability is the natural state of markets, sudden changes can still occur.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1926574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926574", "title": "Digimon World", "text": "Digimon World\n\nThe gameplay revolves around raising a single Digimon from its egg form, hatching into a Fresh, up through In-Training, Rookie, Champion, and with work, Ultimate. A Digimon partner will \"fade away\" with age, and return to an egg eventually, so the player has to raise it again. To raise a Digimon partner, the player must train it, feed it, let it rest and take it to a bathroom.\n\nThe other main part of gameplay is battle. The player's partner Digimon fight the Digimon that have become aggressive due to a crisis on File Island. Partner Digimon begin the game with a few basic skills, but acquire more as they progress in levels through the game.\n\nThe more Digimon who you gain in your city will make training and various other aspects of the game much easier. Many will open shops and even sell items, some which will open mini-games you can play to gain rewards and items.\n\nThe game revolves around a young boy (the player can name the protagonist in the beginning of the game), the protagonist, who is drawn into the Digital World through his V-Pet device. Jijimon greets and asks him a few questions, the answers to which determine whether he begins with an Agumon or Gabumon. His goal is to travel around File Island, locating all of the resident Digimon of File City who have turned feral and bring them back, raising Digimon partners in the process. He must train his Digimon and battle his way through all of Digimon World until the once sparsely populated city is flourishing with different Digimon from all of Digimon World. He must eventually go to Infinity Mountain (the final location) to confront the antagonist, Analogman, and the mega Machinedramon, and save the Digital World from destruction.\n\nDeveloper and publisher Bandai (now Bandai Namco Entertainment) used an extensive marketing campaign to compete with Nintendo's \"Pokémon\" media franchise, specifically the video games \"Pokémon Red\" and \"Blue\". A promotional \"Digimon\" trading card was offered to the first 100,000 North American customers to purchase the game. The game was officially announced in conjunction with \"Digimon World 2\" in May 2000, before either's release.\n\n\"Digimon World\" received a 23 out of 40 total score from editors of Japanese \"Weekly Famitsu\" magazine, and went on to sell approximately 250,000 copies in the region by February 2000.\n\nThe English version sold enough copies to qualify as a Greatest Hits title in North America, and Platinum Range in Europe, but received mixed to average review scores from critics, earning a 52.55% average on aggregate review website GameRankings. \"GamePro\" magazine criticized the game's \"tinny\" music and sound effects, as well as the largely uncontrollable nature of its combat system, recommending it only for \"a hardcore \"Digimon\" fan\". GameSpot's Miguel Lopez likewise stated that \"\"Digimon World\" isn't for everyone – only dedicated \"Digimon\" fans or fans of the monster-raising genre need apply,\" but found the graphics pleasing, declaring that \"despite its disassociating play focus, no one can deny that \"Digimon World\" is a nice-looking game.\" IGN's David Zdyrko offered a similar opinion on the game's visuals, stating \"There's nothing revolutionary being done here [...] but it still can be classified as a good looking videogame,\" but found the game's battle system unfulfiling.\n\nThe game was followed by various sequels released for the PlayStation and other platforms, though they do not retain all the gameplay elements found in the original. In addition, despite being localized as such, \"Digimon World DS\", \"Digimon World Dawn and Dusk\", \"Digimon World Data Squad\", and \"Digimon World Championship\" aren't official games in the series.\n\n\"\" was first announced in July 2011, in an issue of \"V-Jump\", as the first \"Digimon\" game for the PlayStation Portable. The game was announced to be developed by Japanese video game developer Tri-Crescendo, The original premise of Re:Digitize was to call back to the first Digimon World game; unlike the sequels.\n\n\"\" was announced in the July 2015 issue of V-Jump. It will be released for PlayStation Vita and will be published by Bandai Namco. A trailer was released on July 31 and featured clips from the original \"Digimon World\" before showcasing its gameplay. It will be about an “evolving world,” and like \"Re:Digitize\", the player will take control of the main character who will travel alongside a Digimon partner. The first partners to be revealed were Agumon and Gabumon. It was released in Japan on the 17th of March 2016.\n"}
{"id": "1926575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926575", "title": "Flash cartridge", "text": "Flash cartridge\n\nA flash cartridge is one of several cartridges containing flash memory that have been developed for use in video game consoles. These cartridges enable homebrew applications and games to be used. The capacity of the cartridges can range from 64 Mbit up to 8 Gbit (Commercial carts range from 32 Mbit to 256 Mbit). More recent cartridges use external memory cards as memory, in place of onboard memory, such as Compact Flash, Secure Digital, etc. memory cards.\n\nThese cartridges remain the best-known way to create and distribute homebrew games for many consoles, such as the Game Boy Advance. (another option in this case being the GBA Movie Player, which can run specially designed homebrew programs but cannot run illicit copies of commercial GBA Game cartridges due to the lack of onboard RAM for fast data access).\n\nGames are written to the cartridge with a device called \"linker\". Depending on the brand of flash cartridge, the linker either connects to a link port on the console and writes to the cartridge through the console, or connects to a mini-USB slot on the cartridge itself and writes directly to the flash cartridge. These linkers usually connect to a PC through a USB or parallel plug on the other end. Most linkers that connect to a link slot are capable of copying ROM information from commercial software cartridges. Some more recent flash cartridges use digital media cards (SD,MMC,CF, etc.) in which files are placed via a memory card reader.\n\nA number of devices have been released which use popular flash memory cards such as SD and CF for storage. These have proven popular since the development of techniques to run Nintendo DS software from a GBA cartridge, due to the smaller size of DS games and the low price of these cards compared to conventional GBA flash cartridges. Examples of such devices include the M3, R4 and Supercard.\n\nThere are those that use a program called LittleWriter to write games to the cartridges. However, some people (especially people with older computers) use other software to write games to the cartridge. An example of this software is X-ROM Frontend by DanSoft Australia.\n\nSome flash cartridges use specialized software designed for the specific cartridge, such as Power Writer and USB Writer software for the Flash2Advance Ultra cartridges. This presents several conflicts in regard to homebrew, as Power Writer uses a large database for proper naming and saving of games. ROMs that are not in the database (such as emulators or any other GBA homebrew) are prone to saving issues, and editing the database manually is difficult and involves the use of a hex editor. Such cartridges often have a proprietary interface, making it difficult or impossible to use operating systems other than Microsoft Windows for writing to the cartridge with a few exceptions.\n\nFlash cartridges are also available for other Nintendo consoles, such as the DS, DSi, and the 3DS. The DSi and the 3DS have the ability to update their system firmware via the Internet, which makes it possible for Nintendo to fix the exploit that allowed the flashcarts to work, and essentially block the flashcart from loading on the console. There are also project files existing on the Internet that guide people through creating their own flash cartridge for the original Nintendo Game Boy.\n\nThe legality of flashcarts has been called into question many times, primarily by Nintendo. In a 2010 high court case, the court ruled in Nintendo's favour, and flashcarts were outlawed in the United Kingdom.\n\nSome game consoles have official flash cartridges (and official emulators) used by developers to test prototypes of their games. These cartridges are usually part of the console's software development kit and are only available to licensed developers.\n\n"}
{"id": "1926593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926593", "title": "Central Statistical Directorate", "text": "Central Statistical Directorate\n\nThe Central Statistical Administration (or Board or Directorate) (), abbreviated TsSU (), was the main statistical organization of the former Soviet Union; it was dissolved in the 1980s, replaced by Goskomstat.\n\nIt had the following names:\n"}
{"id": "1926596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926596", "title": "Sergey Mironov", "text": "Sergey Mironov\n\nSergey Mikhailovich Mironov (; born 14 February 1953) is a Russian politician. He was Chairman of the Federation Council, the upper house of the Russian parliament, from 2001 to 2011. He leads the faction A Just Russia in the Parliament of Russia.\n\nIn 1967 he joined the Komsomol.\n\nIn the 1970s, Sergey Mironov served in the airborne troops in the Soviet Army. In 1973 he was elected as deputy secretary committee of the Komsomol on ideological educational work at the Leningrad Mining Institute. After graduating from the Institute he worked as an engineer-geophysicist. After a brief time of working as an entrepreneur, he entered politics and, in 1994, was elected deputy of the St. Petersburg Legislative Assembly. In June 2000, he was elected vice-Chairman of the St. Petersburg Legislative Assembly and, in 2001, entered the Federation Council of Russia as a representative of St. Petersburg. In December 2001, Sergey Mironov was elected to be a Speaker of the Federation Council. Since February 2003, Sergey Mironov has been the Chairman of the Council of Inter-Parliamentary Assembly of States – members of the Commonwealth of Independent States and since April 2003 – Chairman of the Russian Party of Life. Sergey Mironov is from Saint Petersburg.\n\nMironov was a candidate in the 2004 presidential election. He was not considered to be a serious candidate and was quoted as saying: \"We all want Vladimir Putin to be the next president.\" He polled less than one per cent of the vote.\n\nIn October 2006, he became the leader of the new left-wing opposition party A Just Russia (Справедливая Россия), which was formed by uniting Rodina, Mironov's Russian Party of Life, and the Russian Pensioners' Party. This effectively makes him the leader of the opposition as the three parties together would be stronger than the Communist Party of the Russian Federation.\n\nMironov has several times proposed an amendment to the Russian constitution that would allow the President to be elected for 3 consecutive 5 or 7 year terms. In 2007, Boris Gryzlov, leader of the rival United Russia party, said that changing the constitution would be unacceptable. Mironov is considered to be more socialistic oriented, as he pushes for setting up special agricultural exchanges for state purchases of agricultural goods and for more state intervention in regulating prices of basic food stuff.\n\nIn the March 2012 presidential election, he received 3.86% of the votes.\n\nIn March 2014, Mironov was included in list of Russian government sanctioned individuals because of their direct or alleged indirect involvement in the 2014 Crimean crisis. On 25 July 2014, amidst an armed insurgency in Eastern Ukraine, the Ukrainian Interior Ministry launched criminal proceedings against Mironov for alleged financial support to the armed insurgents.\n\nThird wife: Mironova Irina Yurievna – officer apparatus to the Interparliamentary Assembly of the CIS. They have a son and a daughter.\n\nIn 2008, President Vladimir Putin awarded Mironov the Order \"For Merit to the Fatherland\", 3rd degree.\n\nIn 2011, after an initiative of United Russia in the Legislative Assembly of Saint Petersburg, Mironov was recalled from the Federation Council.\n\nMirinov ran for president in the 2004 presidential election as the nominee of the Russian Party of Life. His candidacy was seen largely as a ploy to lend credence to the contest, as he was widely known to be a strong supporter of Vladimir Putin. He was even quoted as declaring, \"We all want Vladimir Putin to be the next president.\"\n\nMirinov's campaign slogan was \"Justice and Responsibility\".\n\nMost Russians were unfamiliar with Minonov and were disinterested in his candidacy.\n\nRunning in 2012 as the A Just Russia nominee, Mironov called for a return to a socialist model of government. Mironov was nominated by his party on 10 December 2011.\n\nWhile he stated that he predicted a Putin victory, he declared that he would support Gennady Zyuganov in a hypothetical runoff against Putin.\n\n"}
{"id": "1926598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926598", "title": "RIVPACS", "text": "RIVPACS\n\nRIVPACS (River Invertebrate Prediction and Classification System) is an aquatic biomonitoring system for assessing water quality in freshwater rivers in the United Kingdom. It is based on the macroinvertebrate species (such as freshwater shrimp, freshwater sponges, worms, crayfish, aquatic snails, freshwater mussels, insects, and many others) found at the study site during sampling. Some of these species are tolerant to pollution, low dissolved oxygen, and other stressors, but others are sensitive; organisms vary in their tolerances. Therefore, different species will usually be found, in different proportions, at different river sites of varying quality. Some organisms are especially good indicator species. The species found at the reference sites collectively make up the species assemblage for that site and are the basis for a statistical comparison between reference sites and non-reference sites. The comparison between the expected species and the observed species can then be used to estimate this aspect of the ecological health of a river. \n\nThe system is meant to be standardized, easy to use, and relatively low cost. It can complement other types of water quality monitoring such as chemical monitoring. RIVPACS supports the implementation of the Water Framework Directive as its official tool for macroinvertebrate classification\n\nReference sites can be chosen and adjusted several ways. Usually they represent the best conditions within the region or area under study, and are a short stretch of river. Sometimes the reference site expectations are adjusted for degradation of the entire region by human impact. 'Pristine' freshwater sites are sampled to collect information on physical characteristics, chemistry, and macroinvertebrates, sometimes several times each year. This information is then used to predict what invertebrates are present from samples of physiochemistry from other sites. \n\nRIVPACS is used across the UK and supported by Centre for Ecology and Hydrology, Countryside Council for Wales, Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs, Natural England, Environment Agency, Northern Ireland Environment Agency, Freshwater Biological Association, Scotland and Northern Ireland Forum for Environmental Research, Scottish Environment Protection Agency, Scottish Government, Scottish Natural Heritage, South West Water, and Welsh Assembly Government.\n\nThis classification of freshwater sites based on the macroinvertebrate fauna was first derived in 1977. Since then it has been developed and updated with addition of a wider range of freshwater sites. It has been adapted into various other versions around the world, including a Canadian version known as CABIN, AUSRIVAS in Australia, MEDPACS in Spain, and others.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1926607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926607", "title": "Goldman equation", "text": "Goldman equation\n\nThe Goldman–Hodgkin–Katz voltage equation, more commonly known as the Goldman equation, is used in cell membrane physiology to determine the reversal potential across a cell's membrane, taking into account all of the ions that are permeant through that membrane.\n\nThe discoverers of this are David E. Goldman of Columbia University, and the English Nobel laureates Alan Lloyd Hodgkin and Bernard Katz.\n\nThe GHK voltage equation for formula_1 monovalent positive ionic species and formula_2 negative:\n\nThis results in the following if we consider a membrane separating two formula_4-solutions:\n\nIt is \"Nernst-like\" but has a term for each permeant ion:\n\n\nformula_14 is approximately 26.7 mV at human body temperature (37 °C); when factoring in the change-of-base formula between the natural logarithm, ln, and logarithm with base 10 formula_15, it becomes formula_16, a value often used in neuroscience.\n\nThe ionic charge determines the sign of the membrane potential contribution. During an action potential, although the membrane potential changes about 100mV, the concentrations of ions inside and outside the cell do not change significantly. They are always very close to their respective concentrations when the membrane is at their resting potential.\n\nUsing formula_18, formula_19, (assuming body temperature) formula_20 and the fact that one volt is equal to one joule of energy per coulomb of charge, the equation\ncan be reduced to\nwhich is the Nernst equation.\n\nGoldman's equation seeks to determine the voltage \"E\" across a membrane. A Cartesian coordinate system is used to describe the system, with the \"z\" direction being perpendicular to the membrane. Assuming that the system is symmetrical in the \"x\" and \"y\" directions (around and along the axon, respectively), only the \"z\" direction need be considered; thus, the voltage \"E\" is the integral of the \"z\" component of the electric field across the membrane.\nAccording to Goldman's model, only two factors influence the motion of ions across a permeable membrane: the average electric field and the difference in ionic concentration from one side of the membrane to the other. The electric field is assumed to be constant across the membrane, so that it can be set equal to \"E\"/\"L\", where \"L\" is the thickness of the membrane. For a given ion denoted A with valence \"n\", its flux \"j\"—in other words, the number of ions crossing per time and per area of the membrane—is given by the formula\n\nThe first term corresponds to Fick's law of diffusion, which gives the flux due to diffusion down the concentration gradient, i.e., from high to low concentration. The constant \"D\" is the diffusion constant of the ion A. The second term reflects the flux due to the electric field, which increases linearly with the electric field; this is a Stokes–Einstein relation applied to electrophoretic mobility. The constants here are the charge valence \"n\" of the ion A (e.g., +1 for K, +2 for Ca and −1 for Cl), the temperature \"T\" (in kelvins), the molar gas constant \"R\", and the faraday \"F\", which is the total charge of a mole of electrons.\n\nUsing the mathematical technique of separation of variables, the equation may be separated\n\nIntegrating both sides from \"z\"=0 (inside the membrane) to \"z\"=\"L\" (outside the membrane) yields the solution\n\nwhere μ is a dimensionless number\n\nand \"P\" is the ionic permeability, defined here as\n\nThe electric current density \"J\" equals the charge \"q\" of the ion multiplied by the flux \"j\"\n\nCurrent density has units of (Amperes/m). Molar flux has units of (mol/(s m)). Thus, to get current density from molar flux one needs to multiply by Faraday's constant F (Coulombs/mol). F will then cancel from the equation below. Since the valence has already been accounted for above, the charge q of each ion in the equation above, therefore, should be interpreted as +1 or -1 depending on the polarity of the ion.\n\nThere is such a current associated with every type of ion that can cross the membrane; this is because each type of ion would require a distinct membrane potential to balance diffusion, but there can only be one membrane potential. By assumption, at the Goldman voltage \"E\", the total current density is zero\n\n(Although the current for each ion type considered here is nonzero, there are other pumps in the membrane, e.g. Na/K-ATPase, not considered here which serve to balance each individual ion's current, so that the ion concentrations on either side of the membrane do not change over time in equilibrium.) If all the ions are monovalent—that is, if all the \"n\" equal either +1 or -1—this equation can be written\n\nwhose solution is the Goldman equation\n\nwhere\n\nIf divalent ions such as calcium are considered, terms such as \"e\" appear, which is the square of \"e\"; in this case, the formula for the Goldman equation can be solved using the quadratic formula.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1926612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926612", "title": "Canadian Provost Corps", "text": "Canadian Provost Corps\n\nThe Canadian Provost Corps (C Pro C) was the military police corps of the Canadian Army. The Canadian Provost Corps was authorized on 15 June 1940. The Canadian Provost Corps was amalgamated into the Canadian Forces in 1968.\n\nDuring the early years of World War I, Regimental Police were the only police element in the Canadian Army. The situation was such that the 2nd Canadian Division made its brigades responsible for the provision of \"Trench Police\" to perform traffic control duties.\n\nThe Canadian Military Police Corps was formed during October 1917, with a total of 850 all ranks.\n\nThe CMPC school was formed at Ottawa on 1 June 1918, and closed ten months later on 11 March 1919.\n\nThe CMPC itself was disbanded on 30 June 1920.\n\nAt the outbreak of World War II, the Canadian Army was without any form of military police. On September 13, 1939, the Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP) requested and received permission to form a Provost Company using volunteers from its ranks. This was designated 1 Provost Company (RCMP), of the 1st Canadian Infantry Division, Canadian Active Service Force. Initially, it was 120 men; many of them were in the UK by the end of 1939.\n\nIn mid June 1940, the Canadian Provost Corps was officially born out of 1 Provost Company. For most of 1940, 1 Provost Company was stationed in England, but was involved in the battles during the fall of France (Brest, Laval, Sable and Chateaubriant).\n\nThe Canadian Provost Corps Training Centre operated from November 1942 to May 1946, training a total of 1,897 all ranks.\n\nDuring World War II, most of the Canadian Army in England was stationed at Aldershot. \n\nCanadian MPs wore red-topped caps and were armed with .38 revolvers carried in a holster on the left hip together with white pattern 1937 web belt, brace and brace attachment in the same manner as the British Corps of Military Police (CMP).\nThe corps saw action for the first time on 18 August 1942 in the Dieppe Raid. Of the 41 members who took part, 22 returned to England, one was killed, eighteen were taken prisoner (seven of them being wounded). During 1943, 1 Provost Company became involved in operations in Sicily (Pachino, Valguarnera, Assoro, Agira, Adrano and Regalbuto) and after the crossing into Italy on 3 September 1943, the company continued its support of the I Canadian Corps as part of the Eighth Army as Allied forces crept northwards from the toe of Italy. Places where 1 Provost Company saw action included: Campobasso, Torella, Motta Montecorvino, San Leonardo, The Gully, and Ortona in 1943; San Nicola, San Tommaso, Cassino II, the Gustav Line, the Liri Valley, the Hitler Line, and Got Lamone Crossing in 1944; and Misano Ridge, Rimini Line, San Martino, San Lorenzo, and Fosso Vecchio in 1945. In the Cassino area of Italy, the Canadian Provost assisted the British CMP on \"Highway 6\", where 11,000 vehicles were handled every day. The Canadians were part of twenty-four provost and traffic control companies and two Special Investigation Branch sections that were attached to the Eighth Army.\n\nShortly after the Normandy landings in June 1944, the 2nd Canadian Line of Communications (LoC) Provost HQ and six sections were deployed in Northern France on traffic control duties. 1 Provost Company also saw action at Apeldoorn in the Netherlands.\n\nOn 18 October 1945, 1 Provost Company was de-activated when it was repatriated to Canada. By September 1945, the C Pro C numbered 6,120 men.\n\nThe Canadian Provost Corps School was formed at Camp Borden in the late 1940s, and by 1948 there were at least ten Provost Companies, including five Militia Provost Companies, in the Canadian Army.\n\n25 Provost Detachment headed to Korea in 1950, where it formed part of 1 Commonwealth Division Provost Company (\"1 COMWEL Div Pro Coy\"). It was stated in the Standing Orders of this unit that it was the only integrated unit of its kind in the Allied Forces. In 1955, the Provost Detachment was disbanded after a total of 264 Canadian MPs had served in Korea.\n\nFrom 23 November 1951, the 27th Brigade Provost Detachment was located in Hanover, West Germany with NATO. In November 1958, the 4 Canadian Infantry Brigade Group rotated into Germany and the Provost Platoon in Germany was renamed No.4 Provost Platoon.\n\nDuring 1968, the platoon was renamed 4 Military Police Platoon and was located at Canadian Forces Base Lahr until the pull out of 4 Canadian Mechanised Battle Group (CMBG) in 1992.\n\nIn March 1964, the United Nations authorized a force to serve on the island of Cyprus. Members of the Military Police served on Cyprus from that time until Canada pulled out in 1992.\n\nOn 1 February 1968, the Provost Corps ceased to exist, when all branches of the Canadian military were unified into the Canadian Forces and security became the responsibility of the Canadian Armed Forces Security and Intelligence Branch.\n\nThe Canadian Military Police Heritage Hall at Canadian Forces Base Borden is a museum dedicated to the memory of the Canadian Provost Corps, Royal Canadian Air Force Service Police and Royal Canadian Navy Naval Shore Patrol Veterans in the Canadian Forces.\n\nThis unit was allied with the following:\n\n"}
{"id": "1926616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926616", "title": "Blue Eagle (comics)", "text": "Blue Eagle (comics)\n\nBlue Eagle is a fictional character appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. The character is not from the main reality where stories are set in the Marvel Universe, but from an alternate universe.\n\nThe character was created by Roy Thomas and John Buscema, and debuted as a member of the team of superheroes called the Squadron Supreme in \"The Avengers\" #85 (Feb 1971) as American Eagle, then as Cap'n Hawk in \"The Avengers\" #148 (June 1976), and finally as Blue Eagle in \"Squadron Supreme\" #1 (Sept 1985).\n\nJames Dore Sr. operated during World War II under the persona of American Eagle, outfitted with a pair of wings which he obtained through unknown means. During this period, he was allied with other heroes such as Power Princess and Professor Imam as members of the Golden Agency. At an unspecified time after the war, he had retired, was married and sired a son years later.\n\nJames Dore Jr., who was born in Mayflower, Freedonia on his Earth, was an airplane mechanic. He began his career as a superhero when he inherited the mantle of the American Eagle from his father and joined the Squadron Supreme. With the Squadron Supreme, he encountered the Avengers Goliath II, Quicksilver, Scarlet Witch, and the Vision. Eventually Dore abandoned the American Eagle identity after a falling out with his father over political differences, and adopted the identity of Cap'n Hawk. Alongside the Squadron Supreme, he battled the Avengers on behalf of the Serpent Cartel, and then turned against the Cartel when their hold on him was broken. Alongside the Squadron and Thor, he battled Emil Burbank and the evil Hyperion. Alongside the Squadron, he was mind-controlled by the Overmind. Cap'n Hawk and the Squadron were used as pawns in the Overmind's conquest of Earth-712. The Squadron members were freed by the Defenders, and the two teams battled and defeated the Overmind and his ally Null, the Living Darkness.\n\nThe Squadron Supreme, as a result of their conflict with the Overmind, instituted the \"Utopia Program\". They assumed control of Earth-712's United States, and publicly revealed their true identities. James again adopted another identity after his father died from a heart attack. Using a costume made by his dead father, he took the name Blue Eagle. With the Squadron, he battled a group of rebel soldiers at Fort Largo. The Squadron then battled the Institute of Evil. Dore then discovered that the Golden Archer had used the Behavior Modification Device on Lady Lark, and called for the Archer's dismissal from the team. Blue Eagle was captured by Nighthawk's Redeemers and placed under Master Menace's Behavior Modification machine.\n\nBlue Eagle recovered and returned to the Squadron, just in time for the Redeemers' attack on Squadron City. During the battle, Blue Eagle killed the Black Archer with his mace, but lost the use of his wings after Lamprey drained the artificial gravity effect from them. Blue Eagle fell and crashed into Pinball, breaking his neck and the back of Pinball. Both Blue Eagle and Pinball died immediately and were placed in cryostasis until they could be revived and their injuries repaired.\n\nBlue Eagle's wings were later adopted by fellow Squadron member Lady Lark, as she had grown to love Dore shortly before his death. Lady Lark later changed her codename to Skylark.\n\nAfter a period of time when the surviving members of the Squadron Supreme had returned to Earth-712 from their forced exile, they found the government of Earth combined to create an armed force of Blue Eagles to patrol and keep the populace docile. These troops would be opposed by the Squadron along with the Eagle's opposite number, the Nighthawks.\n\nBlue Eagle wears a specially designed flying suit of synthetic stretch fabric equipped with artificial wings on his back enabling natural winged flight, that was designed by his father James Dore Sr. (the original American Eagle) and his mother Adrian Dore. These wings had a \"anti-gravity effect\" that allowed Dore to fly.\n\nThe Blue Eagle costume could be enhanced with a shield, light armor, and a protective helmet.\n\nA version of Blue Eagle appears in \"Supreme Power\", a modern revamp of the Squadron Supreme, in the possible future timeline of the \"Supreme Power: Hyperion\" mini-series.\n\nDore was highly skilled in hand-to-hand combat, specializing in aerial combat. He demonstrated a wide range of skill with ancient melee weapons.\n"}
{"id": "1926626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926626", "title": "Amber Neben", "text": "Amber Neben\n\nAmber Leone Neben (born February 18, 1975) is an American racing cyclist, who currently rides for UCI Women's Continental Team . Neben won the UCI world time trial championship in 2008 and 2016 as well as the U.S. national road race championship in 2003 and 2017.\n\nAt the age of four Neben survived a bout of spinal meningitis, which left her in a coma for three days. Doctors told her parents that she was unlikely to survive, and that if she did, she would probably have endured brain damage and have lost her hearing. Neben played soccer and ran cross-country in junior high and high school. She attended the University of Nebraska on a track and cross-country scholarship. Stress fractures stopped her running and she became an undergraduate assistant coach in distance running. She took up cycling after graduating from college with a Bachelor of Science degree in biology. She then obtained a master's degree in biology from the University of California, Irvine, having originally commenced studies for a PhD. Whilst she was at UC Irvine she scored a top 10 finish at the national collegiate cycling championships, which persuaded her to exit with her master's degree and focus on professional cycling.\n\nShe concentrated first on mountain biking but her greatest success was on the road. She won the Rupert to Pomerelle stage of the 2001 Women's Challenge race with its long, steep climb to the finish, the fourth American to win a stage at the Women's Challenge since it became a UCI event. She then concentrated on road cycling and was picked for the road world championship team in 2001 and 2002.\n\nNeben raced again in 2004. She missed placing first by eight seconds in the time trial selection race for the Olympic Games. In spring 2005, she won the Tour de l'Aude in France. She won again in 2006. She was picked for the 2008 U.S. Olympic team and came 33rd in the road race event in Beijing. Later in 2008 she became the World TT Champion.\n\nNeben made the 2012 U.S. Olympic team for the Women's road race, along with Kristin Armstrong, Shelley Olds and Evelyn Stevens. In the Women's time trial she finished 7th.\n\nNeben tested positive for the banned substance 19-Norandrosterone on May 31st 2003, after she won the Coupe du Monde Montreal World Cup race. The test results were not confirmed until after her \"A\" sample and \"B\" sample both returned 6.9ng/ml, which is above the 5ng/ml cutoff. Neben appealed to the Court of Arbitration for Sport [CAS] and accepted a provisional suspension from mid-July 2003. Neben said the positive test came from contaminated supplements. As she was a member of the T-Mobile Women's Cycling Team, a trade team owned by USA Cycling, she enlisted USA Cycling top management as witnesses in her defense. Sean Petty, VP of Marketing of USA Cycling, Gerard Bisceglia, CEO for USA Cycling, Steve Johnson, COO and Director of Athletics for USA Cycling, Bob Stapleton, Vice Chair for T-Mobile USA all testified on her behalf. The North American CAS ruled in October 2003 that doping had occurred but that it was not intentional. Neben was suspended, in a split decision, for six months, starting from the provisional ban beginning on July 13, 2003. The ruling also stated that all competitive results which occurred on or after May 31,2003 were cancelled. Therefore, her win at the Coupe du Monde Montreal on May 31st was cancelled, but not her Elite Women's Road Race National Title, which occurred on May 22nd. She would have to be tested for drugs regularly for the following 18 months.\n\nShe is married to Jason, an assistant professor of education at Concordia University Irvine. In 2007, she underwent a successful program of treatment for melanoma.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1926627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926627", "title": "Hay Harvest at Éragny", "text": "Hay Harvest at Éragny\n\nHay Harvest at Éragny (French: Fenaison à Éragny) is a 1901 painting by French Impressionist painter Camille Pissarro depicting the hay harvest in the French commune of Éragny-sur-Epte.\n\nIt is currently in the collection of the National Gallery of Canada.\n\n"}
{"id": "1926655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926655", "title": "Forest (painting)", "text": "Forest (painting)\n\nForest is a painting (c. 1902–1904) by French painter Paul Cézanne. An oil on canvas, it represents a wooded area close to Aix-en-Provence. It is currently in the collection of the National Gallery of Canada. \n\n"}
{"id": "1926657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926657", "title": "Tom Holland (director)", "text": "Tom Holland (director)\n\nThomas Lee \"Tom\" Holland (born July 11, 1943) is an American screenwriter, actor, and filmmaker best known for his work in the horror film genre, penning the 1983 sequel to the classic Alfred Hitchcock film \"Psycho\", directing the first entry in the long-running \"Child's Play\" franchise, and writing and directing the cult vampire film \"Fright Night\". He also directed the Stephen King adaptations \"The Langoliers\" and \"Thinner\". He is a two-time Saturn Award recipient.\n\nHolland was born July 11, 1943 in Poughkeepsie, New York, to Lee and Tom Holland. He attended Ossining Public High School in Ossining, New York before transferring to Worcester Academy, where he graduated in 1962. After graduating high school, Holland attended Northwestern University for one year before transferring to the University of California, Los Angeles, where he graduated in 1970. He later graduated from the university's law school with a Juris Doctor.\n\nHolland trained as an actor at the Actor's Studio under Lee Strasberg. Throughout the 60s and early 70s Holland appeared under the moniker of Tom Fielding in several supporting and guest star roles for both television and film, including \"A Walk in the Spring Rain\" alongside Anthony Quinn and Ingrid Bergman.\n\nIn December 2009 Holland was cast for Adam Green's \"Hatchet II\", to star alongside Danielle Harris, Tony Todd, Kane Hodder, and R.A. Mihailoff. He narrated the film alongside Green on San Diego Comic-Con International 2010.\n\nHolland made his screenwriting debut with the 1978 made-for-television film \"The Initiation of Sarah\". He made his feature film writing debut in 1982, adapting the Edward Levy novel \"The Beast Within\" into the film of the same name. That same year, he wrote the \"Class of 1984\", an urban thriller film centered on juvenile delinquency and punk subculture. The film proved controversial upon release and was heavily censored in the United Kingdom and outright banned in other countries. It has since become a cult classic.\n\nHolland was hired by Universal Pictures to write a sequel to the 1960 Alfred Hitchcock film \"Psycho\", which since its initial release had been acclaimed as not only a seminal and iconic horror film, but one of the greatest films of all time. Lead actor Anthony Perkins, who had previously displayed apprehension at appearing in a sequel, agreed to do the film after being impressed by Holland's screenplay. The film, directed by Richard Franklin and co-starring Meg Tilly, Robert Loggia, and Dennis Franz, opened at No. 2 at the box office (behind \"Return of the Jedi\") and went on to gross $34 million.\n\nHolland re-teamed with director Franklin the following year on his next film, \"Cloak & Dagger\". Unlike their previous film, \"Cloak & Dagger\" was a spy film aimed at a younger audience, and starring Henry Thomas of \"E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial\" in its leading role. Despite positive critical reviews, the film was a financial failure, grossing $9,719,952 off of a 13 million dollar production budget.\n\nHolland's directorial debut came in 1985 with the vampire horror film \"Fright Night\". Holland first conceived of the premise during the writing of \"Cloak & Dagger\", of a horror film fan who learns that his neighbor is a vampire. He chose to direct the film himself after being disappointed with Michael Winner's direction of his screenplay \"Scream for Help.\" The film was both financial and critical success, earning a rave review from Roger Ebert who wrote \"\"Fright Night\" is not a distinguished movie, but it has a lot of fun being undistinguished.\" The film spawned a sequel, and a 2011 remake starring Colin Farrell and Anton Yelchin.\n\nIn 1988, Holland directed the film \"Child's Play\", which received positive reviews from Ebert and Leonard Maltin, spawned a long-running franchise consisting of six sequels, and helped elevate its antagonist Chucky to a pop culture icon. He directed three episodes of the horror anthology series \"Tales from the Crypt\", and returned to television films with \"The Stranger Within\". He wrote and directed a 1996 ABC miniseries adaptation of the Stephen King novella \"The Langoliers\", and the following year adapted King's novel \"Thinner\" into a film of the same name.\n\nHe and David Chackler founded the horror film company Dead Rabbit Films. Their first feature film was the remake of \"Fright Night\". Holland is also reportedly scheduled to be writing and directing a feature-length anthology of horror shorts titled \"Twisted Tales\".\n\nHe is the father of American actor Josh Holland.\n"}
{"id": "1926658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926658", "title": "Jurf Al Sakhar Bridge", "text": "Jurf Al Sakhar Bridge\n\nStretching across the Euphrates in the tiny Iraqi village of Jurf Al Sakhar southwest of Baghdad, the 4-lane Jurf Al Sakhar Bridge was a primary target of Operation Phantom Fury in November 2004.\n\nAccording to US Central Command, the bridge was a key pathway for insurgents crossing between Baghdad and Fallujah.\n"}
{"id": "1926662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926662", "title": "Crane Brinton", "text": "Crane Brinton\n\nClarence Crane Brinton (Winsted, Connecticut, 1898 – Cambridge, Massachusetts, September 7, 1968) was an American historian of France, as well as an historian of ideas. His most famous work, \"The Anatomy of Revolution\" (1938) likened the dynamics of revolutionary movements to the progress of fever.\n\nBorn in Winsted, Connecticut, his family soon moved to Springfield, Massachusetts, where he grew up and attended the public schools there before entering Harvard University in 1915. His excellent academic performance enabled him to win a Rhodes Scholarship to attend Oxford University, receiving a Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) degree in 1923. Brinton then began teaching at Harvard University that same year, becoming full professor in 1942 and remaining at Harvard until his death. He was McLean Professor of Ancient and Modern History from 1946 to 1968.\n\nFor many years he taught a popular course at Harvard known informally to his students as \"Brunch with Brinton.\"\n\nBrinton was known for his witty, convivial, and urbane writing and commentary, and was fluent in French. During World War II he was for a time Chief of Research and Analysis in London in the Office of Strategic Services. He was also Fire Marshal for St. Paul's Cathedral in London, which withstood the Blitz with minor damages. After the war, he was commended by the United States Army for \"Conspicuous Contribution to the Liberation of France\" and was chairman of the Harvard Society of Fellows in the late 1940s. Membership during that period included McGeorge Bundy and Ray Cline, who would go on to become quite influential in national security and intelligence.\n\nIn the early 1960s Brinton was the dissertation supervisor at Harvard of the young historian Will Johnston. He also served as an advisor for historian Elizabeth Eisenstein, author of \"The Printing Press as an Agent of Change\".\n\nIn 1963 Brinton was elected president of the American Historical Association. He was also president of the Society for French Historical Studies.\n\nOn February 19, 1968 Brinton testified at the Fulbright Hearings on the Vietnam war as to the nature of the Vietnamese opposition, saying that Americans are sympathetic to a revolution but not a Communist one, and that if Ho Chi Minh had not been a Communist, \"The whole story would have been different.\".\n\nBrinton wrote a review of Carroll Quigley's book \"Tragedy and Hope\".\n\nAmong those his scholarship inspired were Samuel P. Huntington, who cited Brinton many times in his book \"Political Order in Changing Societies,\" and Robert Struble, Jr., in his \"Treatise on Twelve Lights.\"\n\nArticles\n\nBooks\n\nBook reviews\n\n"}
{"id": "1926663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926663", "title": "New Westminster Bruins", "text": "New Westminster Bruins\n\nThe New Westminster Bruins were a junior ice hockey team from the Western Hockey League. There were two franchises that carried this name:\nBoth incarnations of the franchise played at Queen's Park Arena in the Vancouver suburb of New Westminster, British Columbia.\n\nThe franchise began in 1946 as the Humboldt Indians of the Saskatchewan Junior Hockey League and moved to Estevan to become the Bruins in 1957. They were a founding member of the Western Canada Junior Hockey League in 1966. The Estevan Bruins moved on again to New Westminster in 1971, by team owner and coach Punch McLean. They had been a successful franchise in Estevan, winning the President's Cup in 1968.\n\nOnce the team arrived in New Westminster, the success continued throughout much of the decade. The Bruins won the President's Cup four times in a row between 1975 and 1978. They made it to the Memorial Cup finals four years in a row as well, losing in 1975 and 1976 to the Toronto Marlboros and Hamilton Fincups, respectively, and winning it in 1977 and 1978. After a brawl at the end of a game against Portland in March 1979 at Queens Park Arena, some local hockey fans started to look with disfavour upon the Bruins' rough tactics, and the team's popularity began to wane. In 1981 the Bruins moved to Kamloops, British Columbia, where they would become first the Kamloops Junior Oilers and, in 1984, the Kamloops Blazers. The franchise's success has continued on the ice in Kamloops, and as of 2006 the team had won a total of eleven WHL titles and five Memorial Cups between its years in Estevan, New Westminster and Kamloops.\n\nThe second incarnation of the Bruins arrived in New Westminster in 1983 from Nanaimo, British Columbia, where they had previously been known as the Nanaimo Islanders. The team originated in Calgary in 1966–67 with a stop as the Billings Bighorns. The team only played one season in Nanaimo before moving. The new Bruins did not enjoy the same level of success, and lasted only five seasons in New Westminster before moving to Kennewick, Washington, to become the Tri-City Americans. This franchise has never won the WHL championship in any of its incarnations.\n\nNote: GP = games played, W = wins, L = losses, T = ties Pts = points, GF = goals for, GA = goals against\n\nTotals include both incarnations of the Bruins\n\n"}
{"id": "1926673", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926673", "title": "Rímac District", "text": "Rímac District\n\nRímac is a district in the Lima Province, Peru. It lies directly to the north of downtown Lima, to which it is connected by six bridges over the Rímac River. The district also borders the Independencia, San Martín de Porres, and San Juan de Lurigancho districts. Vestiges of Lima's colonial heyday remain today in an area of the Rímac district known as the Historic centre of Lima, which was declared a UNESCO World Heritage Site in 1988.\nDowntown Rímac District has, like its southern counterpart, its eastern and western sides divided by Jirón Trujillo, which connects to Lima District's Jirón de la Unión through the \"Puente de Piedra\", the oldest bridge in the whole city. Rímac's East side features the Plaza de Acho, the most famous bullfighting arena in South America and one of the most well known in the world.\n\nLooking directly from Puente Ricardo Palma on downtown Lima district's East side can be seen a large building with the logo of Cristal beer, one of two famous Peruvian brands. This was the main brewery until the Backus company moved operations to Ate in the 1990s.\n\nNorth of the plant goes the Alameda de los Descalzos, a short boulevard with a large planted median leading into the Convento de los Descalzos (Discalced Monks convent). Built in the 18th century by the Spanish colonial government, it is one of the best features in this lower-middle-class district.\n\nNorthern Rímac, or Amancaes, once romanticized in ballads as \"La Flor de Amancaes\", a hilly prairie, is now overrun with \"pueblos jóvenes\" (shanty towns). The Cerro San Cristóbal, which is the highest point in the Lima Province, is located in the district.\n\n\nAs of 1993, Rímac is divided into the following urban areas:\n\n"}
{"id": "1926685", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926685", "title": "Castilleja indivisa", "text": "Castilleja indivisa\n\nCastilleja indivisa, commonly known as Texas Indian paintbrush or entireleaf Indian paintbrush, is a hemiparasitic annual wildflower native to Texas, Louisiana, and Oklahoma in the United States. There are historical records of the species formerly growing in Arkansas, and reports of naturalized populations in Florida and Alabama.\n\nThe bright red leaf-like bracts that surround the white to greenish flowers make the plant look like a ragged brush that has been dipped in red paint. They sometimes produce a light yellow or pure white variation mixed in with the reds.\n\nEach plant typically grows in height. The leaves are long and stalkless. The roots grow until they reach the roots of other plants, mainly grasses, and then penetrate the roots of the \"host\" plant to obtain a portion of their needed nutrients (known as semi- or hemiparasitism).\n\nTexas paintbrush typically blooms in early to mid-spring, and thrives in well-drained areas with full sun. They can be seen along highways and in fields, complementing the deep blue of the bluebonnets.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1926687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926687", "title": "Beyond Tomorrow (TV series)", "text": "Beyond Tomorrow (TV series)\n\nBeyond Tomorrow is an Australian television series produced by Beyond Television Productions. It began airing in 1981 as Towards 2000, then in 1985 was renamed Beyond 2000, a name the show kept until its cancellation in 1999. It then started airing again in 2005 with the name \"Beyond Tomorrow\".\n\n\"Towards 2000\" debuted on the ABC in 1981 as a half-hour show dedicated to showcasing developments and inventions in science and technology. Original presenters were Jeffrey Watson, Sonia Humphrey and David Flatman. There were four series of the program (1981,82,83 and 84) and it was a popular and high rating success on the national broadcaster. After production finished on the 4th series, the ABC decided not to continue with \"Towards 2000\", and instead started up a new science program, named Quantum, under the newly appointed Dick Gilling from BBCTV.\n\nThe \"Towards 2000\" reporters then spoke with Ted Thomas, General Manager of ATN 7, who agreed that his network could start a new hour long production and name it \"Beyond 2000\", airing until 1993 when it was picked up by Network Ten, airing until 1999. \"Beyond 2000\" was also broadcast internationally, airing on the Discovery Channel in the United States and Canada, on RTÉ in the Republic of Ireland, and on the satellite channel Sky News in Europe and on TV One in New Zealand. An American-produced version of the show also aired on the Discovery Channel in 1992, with an American presenter (Henry Tenenbaum, presently an anchor/reporter for television station KRON San Francisco) used for the studio segments. An American version entitled \"Beyond Tomorrow\" was hosted by newsman Dave Marash and aired in the early years of the Fox television network.\n\nFourteen series of \"Towards/Beyond 2000\" were produced, with the last being made in 1999 as a one-off, after a production break of about four years. At this point, the rising cost of producing the series, coupled with increased competition from other science and technology shows forced the closure of the program.\n\nA \"Beyond 2000\" website was published by the same company between 1999 and 2003. This provided science and technology news, as well as video clips from the old TV shows. The website was eliminated in a round of company-wide budget cuts that reflected a general downturn in the Australian media industry at the time.\n\n\nIn 2005, \"Beyond 2000\" returned to the Seven Network under the new name of \"Beyond Tomorrow\". The first episode aired 1 June 2005. Picking up where its predecessor left off, \"Beyond Tomorrow\" delves even deeper into the world of technological innovations and scientific breakthroughs. Topics range from how probes planted in the brain can now be used to battle Parkinson's disease and obsessive compulsive disorder, to how the grumpiness of North Sea oil workers has led to a cure being found for snoring. Segments from \"MythBusters\", another Beyond Television production, also air as part of the program (criticised by Australian viewers because Beyond Productions also sold \"Mythbusters\" to SBS, both shows airing almost at the same time slots, with the \"Beyond Tomorrow\" version redubbing the American narrator with an Australian narrator and calling them \"Beyond Tomorrow's Mythbusters\", some viewers feeling the company was insulting their intelligence by doing this double dip into the Australian market). The hour-long magazine style episodes feature breakthroughs in all areas of life including the environment, medicine, sport, computers, space, agriculture, transport, architecture, leisure and adventure. \"Beyond Tomorrow\" airs in the US on The Science Channel and on Discovery Channel Canada; The series has been criticised by some fans of the earlier \"Beyond 2000\" for featuring 'futuristic' technologies that are obsolete or have been in common use for several years. The theme music was also criticised for not being on par with \"Beyond 2000\"'s, some calling it lazy, generic and bland. The official website is no longer up. Production of the show ended in 2007 after 50 episodes, however reruns still continue to air on The Science Channel.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1926692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926692", "title": "Estevan Bruins", "text": "Estevan Bruins\n\nThe Estevan Bruins are a junior ice hockey team playing in the Saskatchewan Junior Hockey League (SJHL). The team is based in Estevan, Saskatchewan, Canada, and plays at Affinity Place.\n\nRadio station CKSE-FM (Rock 106) broadcasts Bruins games. DiscoverEstevan.com covers the team on a daily basis. The team is also covered in print on a weekly basis by the Estevan Mercury and Estevan Lifestyles.\n\nIn 1956, Roderick \"Scotty\" Munro made a presentation to the leaders of the oil booming town of Estevan. His plan was to move his Humboldt/Melfort Indians to the oil capital of Saskatchewan. \"The league that we play in is the best junior hockey in the world,\" he said. Should the citizens of Estevan finance the building of a new arena Scotty would bring top-notch hockey entertainment and much-needed help for minor hockey here.\n\nHis pitch was successful and one year later his newly named \"Bruins\" arrived in Estevan to begin the 1957/58 season in the newly built Agricultural Auditorium.\n\nThe Saskatchewan Junior Hockey League would have six members. The Estevan Bruins would have to travel eight hundred kilometers to play the 1956/57 Memorial Cup champions, the Flin Flon Bombers, and would make shorter trips to play the Prince Albert Minto's, Regina Pats, Saskatoon Quakers and Melville Millionaires. Thus began many years of highly entertaining hockey featuring many future NHL players. The SJHL thrived and grew to eight teams, adding Weyburn Red Wings and Brandon Wheat Kings until the Canadian Major Junior Hockey league (forerunner of today's WHL) was formed in 1966.\n\nThe Bruins continued play in Estevan for five more years. During this time the league changed it name for various political reasons and in 1971, the Bruins moved to New Westminster, British Columbia ending fourteen years of major junior hockey in Estevan.\n\nSummary of League Participation:\n\nSaskatchewan Junior Hockey League (1957–1966)\n\nCanadian Major Junior Hockey League (1966–1967)\n\nWestern Canada Junior Hockey League (1967–1968)\n\nWestern Canada Hockey League (1968–1970)\n\nThe Bruins won the league's President's Cup in 1967–68, then won the Abbott Cup that year to become the Junior Champion for Western Canada and compete against the George Richardson Memorial Trophy winning Eastern Champion for the Memorial Cup. The Bruins lost that Memorial Cup competition against the Niagara Falls Flyers.\n\nIn 1971 the WHL Bruins moved to New Westminster, British Columbia, where they became the New Westminster Bruins. The franchise moved again in 1981 to become the current WHL Kamloops Blazers.\n\nWith the departure of the major junior Bruins, a new Bruins team was founded in Estevan that same year, which has played in the SJHL ever since. The Estevan Bruins won the SJHL championship in 1985 and 1999.\n\n\"Note: GP = Games played, W = Wins, L = Losses, T = Ties Pts = Points, GF = Goals for, GA = Goals against\"\n\nWestern Canada Championships ** \"BCHL - OJHLAJHL- SJHL - MJHL - Host\" **<br>\nRound robin play with 1st vs 2nd - winner advance to National Championship & loser to Runner Up Game<br>3rd vs 4th in 2nd semi-final winner to Runner Up game loser eliminated.<br> Runner Up game determines 2nd representative to National Championship.<br>Competition began 2013 season.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1926698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926698", "title": "Lethbridge Broncos", "text": "Lethbridge Broncos\n\nThe Lethbridge Broncos were a junior ice hockey team in the Western Hockey League from 1974 until 1986. They played at the Lethbridge Sportsplex.\n\nThe Broncos started out as the Swift Current Broncos in Swift Current, Saskatchewan, but moved to Lethbridge in 1974. The team had been losing money in tiny Swift Current and the new Lethbridge Sportsplex was beckoning for a team. The Broncos played in Lethbridge for twelve seasons, winning the President's Cup in 1982–83. In the mid 1980s, the team came up for sale, and despite a large and loyal fanbase, the Broncos were bought by interests in Swift Current and moved back to their original home. Lethbridge was without WHL hockey for only one season however, as the Calgary Wranglers moved to the city, becoming the Lethbridge Hurricanes in 1987.\n\n\"Note: GP = Games played, W = Wins, L = Losses, T = Ties Pts = Points, GF = Goals for, GA = Goals against\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1926700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926700", "title": "Beyond Tomorrow (song)", "text": "Beyond Tomorrow (song)\n\n\"Beyond Tomorrow\" is a song from the motion picture \"Serpico\" (1973), recorded by Perry Como on January 4, 1974. \n\nWords and music are by Mikis Theodorakis (who was nominated for Grammy and BAFTA awards for the soundtrack) and Larry Kusik. Como was backed by the Ray Charles Singers and recorded the song at an RCA studio (studio \"C\") in New York City. \n\nThe catalog numbers of the 45rpm singles released are as follows:\n\nIt is a love song, starting with images of \"waking spring\" and \"golden sunrise\" with love as a summer harvest. It continues \"\"Beyond tomorrow, the gift of lovers, waits bright and free.\"\" and ends with the two lovers standing alone against a cold sky.\n\n"}
{"id": "1926705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926705", "title": "Ginny Mule Pictures", "text": "Ginny Mule Pictures\n\nGinny Mule Pictures was an independent film production company created by actors, Ray McKinnon, Lisa Blount and Walton Goggins. Ginny Mule was involved with producing four independent films, each featuring McKinnon and Goggins onscreen. Blount appeared in Ginny Mule's first three films, but died in 2010.\n\nGinny Mule first produced the black comedy short \"The Accountant\", written and directed by McKinnon, about a ruthless and hard drinking accountant (McKinnon) who appears to help two family farmers (Goggins and Eddie King); the film received an Academy Award for Live Action Short Film after qualifying at the Atlanta Film Festival.\n\nThe company then created \"Chrystal\", starring Billy Bob Thornton as an Arkansas ex-convict returning home after imprisonment to rekindle the relationship with the wife he left behind. McKinnon was nominated for the Grand Jury prize at the 2004 Sundance Film Festival for his writing and directing the film, while Blount was recognized by the 2004 Stockholm International Film Festival jurors as Best Actress for her portrayal of the title character. \n\nIn 2007, \"Randy and the Mob\", a comedy written and directed by McKinnon, won both the Audience Choice and President's Awards at the Nashville Film Festival and was awarded the Spirit award at the Slamdance Film Festival. \n\nRecently, McKinnon produced \"That Evening Sun\", which starred veteran actors Dixie Carter and her real-life husband Hal Holbrook as a Tennessee couple who had lost their farm. The film, directed by Scott Teems, won many awards, including the Audience award for narrative feature and the Special Jury Award for Best Ensemble Cast at the 2009 SXSW Film Festival in Austin, Texas.\n\n"}
{"id": "1926711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926711", "title": "Presidential nominee", "text": "Presidential nominee\n\nIn United States politics and government, the term presidential nominee has two different meanings:\n\n\nIn United States presidential elections, the presumptive nominee is a presidential candidate who is assumed to be their party's nominee, but has not yet been formally nominated or elected by their political party at the party's nominating convention. Ordinarily, a candidate becomes the presumptive nominee of their party when their \"last serious challenger drops out\" or when the candidate \"mathematically clinches—whichever comes first. But there is still room for interpretation.\" A candidate mathematically clinches a nomination by securing a simple majority (i.e., more than 50 percent) of delegates through the primaries and caucuses prior to the convention. The time at which news organizations begin to refer to a candidate as the \"presumptive nominee\" varies from election to election. The shift in media usage from \"front-runner\" to \"presumptive nominee\" is considered a significant change for a campaign.\n\nIn the modern era, it is the norm for the major political parties' nominees to be \"clear well before the conventions\"; in the past, however, some conventions have begun with the outcome in doubt, requiring multiple rounds of balloting to select a nominee. The last conventions with more than one ballot for president occurred in 1952 for the Democrats and 1948 for the Republicans.\n\nLosing candidates, after withdrawing from the primary race, often \"release\" their delegates, who frequently declare support for the presumptive nominee.\n\nA presumptive nominee typically will have already selected a vice presidential running mate before the convention—see veepstakes. In the past, the choice of vice presidential nominee has been made by the convention itself.\n\nThe term \"presumptive nominee\" is disliked by some writers; language commentator William Safire called it a \"bogus title\" and preferred the phrase \"presumed nominee\", which was used by \"The New York Times\" in 2004.\n\n"}
{"id": "1926713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926713", "title": "Anti-Money Laundering Office (Thailand)", "text": "Anti-Money Laundering Office (Thailand)\n\nThe Anti-Money Laundering Office (AMLO), is Thailand's \"...key agency responsible for enforcement of the anti-money laundering and the counter-terrorism financing law.\" It was founded in 1999 upon the adoption of the \"Anti-Money Laundering Act, B.E. 2542 (1999)\" (AMLA). AMLO is an independent governmental agency. It has the status of a department functioning independently and neutrally under the supervision of the minister of justice, but is not part of the justice ministry. In 2016, Prime Minister Prayut Chan-o-cha ordered by the cabinet resolution change the command to under the supervision of the Prime Minister directly.\n\nThe \"AMLO 2016 Annual Report\" reported 369 AMLO positions allocated, with 49 positions vacant, plus 30 government employee positions, with two vacancies. Its budget for FY2017 (1 October 2016 to 30 September 2017) is 374.1 million baht.\n\nAs of 30 September 2016, the AMLO had custody of seized and/or frozen assets valued at 6,176,029,774.12 baht. It conducted 12 asset auctions during FY2016, selling 910 items of assets for 57,893,949 baht. \n\nFrom 29 June to 14 August 2018 AMLO was headed by Secretary-General Police Major General Romsit Viriyasan. He was moved to an \"inactive post\" in the prime minister's office for failing to expedite politically sensitive cases. Pol Maj Gen Preecha Chareonsahayanon was named acting secretary-general.\n\nIn April 2016, AMLO began investigating Thai nationals whose names surfaced in the Panama Papers.\n\n"}
{"id": "1926720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926720", "title": "Voltes V", "text": "Voltes V\n\n, popularly known simply as Voltes V (pronounced as \"”Voltes Five”\") is a Japanese anime television series produced by Toei Animation and Nippon Sunrise. It is the second installment of the \"Robot Romance Trilogy\", which also includes \"Chōdenji Robo Combattler V\" and \"Tōshō Daimos\". It is directed by Tadao Nagahama and produced by Yoshiyuki Tomino. It aired on TV Asahi from June 4, 1977 to March 25, 1978. Voltes V's themes all revolve around rebellion, specifically the French Revolution, and also social issues such as social stratification and racial discrimination.\n\nDespite moderate success in Japan, the series was extremely popular in the Philippines, Cuba and Indonesia. In the United States, this super robot along with the other two aforementioned super robots first appeared in the late 1970s as a part of Mattel's Shogun Warriors line of imported toys.\n\nAn upcoming 2020 Filipino live-action television series adaptation, titled \"Voltes V: Legacy\", is currently in production from Philippine television network GMA, to be directed by Mark A. Reyes.\n\n14,000 light-years from Earth in a stellar system in the Scorpio Cluster, lies the planet of Boazan, whose social system revolves around oligopolistic politics by the nobles and those with horns are considered noble and with high status while the hornless are more of slaves. But when La Gour is about to ascend to the throne and been exposed to be born without horns by hisambitious bastard cousin Zu Zambajil, he was enslaved by the empire. However, La Gour led a rebellion against the empire but his ragtag troops of former slaves were simply no match against the superior might of the Boazanian military. His desperate comrades sacrificed themselves in order for him to board their last remaining space saucer which led him to planet Earth. He was found wounded and unconscious near his ship's wreckage by a local woman, Mitsuyo Go who he later marries. Fearing Zambajil's interplanetary conquest ambitions, La Gour, who now goes by the name Professor Kentaro Go, collaborated with his wife as well as premier earth scientist Professor Hamaguchi and Earth International Defense Force commander General Oka to design and construct the ultimate defense against the potential incoming Boazanian invasion.\n\nTen years later, the Boazanians had finally invade Earth under the orders of Prince Heinell and launch their \"beast fighters\" all over the world, defeating most of the world's armed forces. In order to fight back and to honor Kentaro's wishes, Professor Hamaguchi had gather the three children of Kentaro: Kenichi, Daijiro and Hiyoshi alongside two new members: Ippei and Megumi at the fortress island base \"Camp Big Falcon\". As not an easy task, they were tasked to pilot Kentaro's latest creation and humanity's final hope: \"Voltes V\" in order to repel back the impending Boazanian invasion. While for the Go Siblings to find out the whereabouts and mysteries surrounding their father.\n\n\n\n\nVoltes V was produced by Toei Animation with animation from Sunrise and sponsorship from Popy for the toys. During the development of Voltes V, Nagahama originally conceived the series to be a sequel to \"Chōdenji Robo Combattler V\" and follows the event of the series after the finale before making it into a separate series. From Nagahama's memo, the series is originally meant to be titled or . Both names are ultimately scrapped and it was renamed to Voltes V.\n\nDuring the time of its development, NET TV has transitioned its name to TV Asahi during 1977. In a proposal from Popy in 1976, Voltes V was meant to have a Gun-like finisher attack but Sunrise and Toei wanted the actual attack for the toys to be changed. As such, it was changed to a sword gimmick, which is carried over to the mecha's \"Heaven's Blade/Laser Blade\" attack. At that time also in 1976, Nagahama was given creative direction on the series and used Stage combat as reference for the titular mecha's combat moves. As describing the story itself, the plot of the Go Sibling's search for their father were inspired from Taiga dramas as explained by Shoichi Taguchi, one of the animes that inspired him for the series plot was \"3000 Leagues in Search of Mother\" and that he wanted the heroes to search for their father instead of a mother.\n\nAkinori Watanabe, the previous director of Toei Company's Television Business Division was worried that the plot alone will be too depressing to viewers and wanted to avoid viewers crying all the time. In response to Watanabe's request, he created the rival character to the Go Siblings, Prince Heinel. Heinel himself was based on one of the actors in the world famous \"Takarazuka Revue\". According to Kei Iijima, one of Toei's producers, that the brothers and Heinel will be rivals throughout the series until the final episode, in which he will be revealed to be related to them by blood but have a tragic end and redemption. He stated also that \"This is because I wanted viewers to strongly elicit anger against various discriminations around them and to hate discrimination through this work and think about correcting them.\"\n\nThe final draft of the series was completed in March 1977, with the first episode was broadcast on June 4 of the same year. Shinya Sadamitsu and Yoshiyuki Tomino were brought to the staff by Nagahama for their roles as producer and art director. Kazuo Tomizawa was also brought in as one of the staff until he decided to focus more on \"Invincible Super Man Zambot 3\".\n\n\"Voltes V\" was broadcast in Japan by TV Asahi from June 4, 1977 to March 25, 1978, replacing \"Chōdenji Robo Combattler V\" in its initial timeslot. The series' opening theme is titled by Mitsuko Horie, Koorogi '73, and Columbia Yurikago-kai with the ending theme titled by Ichiro Mizuki. The lyrics to opening theme were written by Toei staff with music written by Asei Kobayashi, and arranged by the series' composer, Hiroshi Takada, while the lyrics to the ending theme were penned by Akira Aoi (Tadao Nagahama), with music written by Asei Kobayashi, and arranged by Hiroshi Tsutsui.\n\nThe English-language dub of \"Voltes V\" was originally aired in the Philippines by GMA on May 5, 1978 (with a sponsorship from Purefoods). The series was shown every Friday (6:00 pm) and became popular nationwide. Another English dub, written and directed by William Ross, was produced in Tokyo, Japan by Frontier Enterprises, later released in North America in 1983 by 3B Productions as \"Voltus 5\". It was a condensed version of episodes 1, 2, 9 and 18 produced by Toei. The English-dubbed feature used the character names of the Philippine English version.\n\nCurrently, Telesuccess Productions (the Philippine subsidiary of Toei Company) holds the Philippine rights to the anime series. At the Otakon 2018 convention on August 13, 2018, Discotek Media announced that they licensed the series for its DVD release in North America.\n\nOn December 31, 2019 during the New Year countdown program, GMA released a one-minute teaser of \"Voltes V: Legacy\", an upcoming live action series adaptation licensed from Toei Company through its Philippine licensor Telesuccess Productions, Inc. Mark A. Reyes will be the director and lead the production of the series. Reyes revealed that he has been working for the project of \"Voltes V: Legacy\" for five years.\n\nAs confirmed by Reyes through questions from fans, GMA partnered with post-production and visual effects firm Riot Inc. Post Production (known for Max's \"Kaleidoscope World\" commercial and the same group that handled the effects of the original Encantadia) for the project with approval and supervision from Toei. GMA's video graphic department will also be involved with \"Voltes V: Legacy\".\n\nDuring the series' run, Popy released a diecast metal toy of Voltes V. The toy was available either with the five Volt Machines sold separately or in a gift set known as the \"Volt In Box\". Aside from the Volt Machines combining to form Voltes V, the toy also transformed into Voltank mode (an alternate vehicle mode wherein the robot lied down face-first with the Volt Panzer and Volt Lander's wheels on the ground). Voltank mode never appeared in the series, but was a unique feature of the toy. The boxed set was re-released in 1982 before being repackaged as part of Bandai's \"Godaikin\" line for the international market in 1983. Popy also released a Jumbo Machinder version of Voltes V. Standing at over 24 inches in height, the toy featured firing projectile fists and could transform into Voltank mode, which small children could ride on.\n\nIn 2006, Bandai released a newer, smaller Voltes V toy as part of their \"Soul of Chogokin\" line. This toy is more detailed and more poseable than its Popy diecast predecessor. In 2008, the toy was re-released as a special edition called \"Respect for Volt In Box\", which pays homage to the original toy in both color scheme and packaging. In addition, this version has been retooled to transform into Voltank mode.\n\nIn 2018, Bandai released the Soul of Chogokin Voltes V F.A. (Full Action) figure. The figure sacrifices its combination gimmick in favor of more anime-accurate proportions and dynamic articulation.\n\nThe series itself is been included and featured in the long running \"Super Robot Wars\" series of video games.\n\nIn April 1979, the authoritarian President Ferdinand Marcos issued a directive banning \"Voltes V\" and other similarly-themed anime series, ostensibly due to concerns about \"excessive violence\" and \"harmful effects on children\". This, however, led to speculations that the series was banned from broadcast due to its underlying themes of rebellion and revolution. In 2012, Marcos' son Bongbong defended his late father's decision to ban \"Voltes V\", citing pressure from parents.\n\nAfter Marcos' ouster in the February 1986 People Power Revolution, the series returned to Philippine television on multiple broadcasters, beginning with PTV and ABS-CBN in 1986, IBC in 1989, and RPN from 1988 until 1990. It returned on the original network, GMA in 1999, with the English dub aired every Friday beginning on January 15 and a Filipino/Tagalog dub airing later in December. In the same year, the last five episodes of \"Voltes V\" that were cut from broadcast due to President Marcos' ban, were compiled together and released for the first time theatrically by GMA Films under the title as \"\"Voltes V: The Liberation\"\".\n\nA thirteen-foot sculpture made by Toym Leon Imao called at the time \"Last, Lost, Lust for Four Episodes\" was displayed in front of the Palma Hall at the University of the Philippines Diliman from September 20 to 28, 2014, consisting of brass, fiberglass, and galvanized iron. The sculpture was made to represent \"the anger felt as a 10-year-old when \"Voltes V\" and the other robots were summarily removed from television.\"\n\nIn May 2006, the cable channel Hero, owned by the ABS-CBN Corporation, released the series as \"Voltes V Evolution\" with a new voice cast. In an attempt to promote the show to a younger audience, the network had Jett Pangan, Sandara Park, Dennis Trillo and other Filipino celebrities re-dub the characters' voices.\n\nOn March 27, 2017, in celebration of the anime's 40th anniversary, a new Tagalog dub of \"Voltes V\" returned to Philippine television and to GMA in the \"\"Astig Authority\"\" block every weekday mornings. The new voice cast features several of the network's artists such as Bea Binene, Derrick Monasterio, Jak Roberto, Hiro Peralta, and Ken Chan. The same version of the Tagalog dub of \"Voltes V\" aired again on the network on July 30, 2018.\n\nIn September 2016, a video-on-demand service, iflix began streaming all episodes of \"Voltes V\" both in English and Filipino dub.\n\nThe music theme of the show is popularly remembered as a song played just before the national anthem in many schools during flag-raising ceremony. Due to popularity of the anime, \"Voltes V\" has embedded itself in Filipino pop culture. The debut album of the Filipino rock band Eraserheads is titled \"Ultraelectromagneticpop!\", a reference to the \"Ultraelectromagnetic Top\" used in the series. In the GMA's comedy-gag show, \"Bubble Gang\", its segment \"Ang Dating Doon\" (which is a parody of the religious program, \"Ang Dating Daan\") top-billed by Isko \"Brod Pete\" Salvador used the \"Voltes V\" theme as its theme song.\n\n"}
{"id": "1926727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926727", "title": "Vineh of Bulgaria", "text": "Vineh of Bulgaria\n\nVinekh (also spelled Vineh; ) was ruler of Bulgaria in the mid-8th century.\n\nAccording to the Namelist of Bulgarian Rulers, Vinekh reigned for seven years and was a member of the Vokil (or Ukil) clan (which may be the same family as that of his predecessor). According to the chronology developed by Moskov, Vinekh would have reigned 754–762. Other chronologies date the reign of Vinekh to 756–762 but do not entirely agree with the testimony of the \"Imennik\".\n\nVinekh ascended the throne after the defeat of his predecessor Kormisosh by the Eastern Roman Emperor Constantine V Kopronymos, which has led some scholars to assume that he was a usurper. In c. 756 Constantine V campaigned against Bulgaria by land and sea, and defeated the Bulgarian army led by Vinekh at Marcellae (Karnobat). The defeated monarch sued for peace and undertook to send his own children as hostages. In 759 Constantine V invaded Bulgaria again, but this time his army was ambushed in the mountain passes of the Stara Planina (battle of the Rishki Pass). Vinekh did not follow up his victory and sought to re-establish the peace. This won him the opposition of the Bulgarian nobility, which had him massacred together with his family.\n\nVineh Peak on Rugged Island in the South Shetland Islands, Antarctica is named after Vinekh of Bulgaria.\n\n"}
{"id": "1926728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926728", "title": "Papier collé", "text": "Papier collé\n\nPapier collé (French: \"pasted paper\" or \"paper cut outs\") is a type of collage and collaging technique in which paper is adhered to a flat mount. The difference between collage and papier collé is that the latter refers exclusively to the use of paper, while the former may incorporate other two-dimension (non-paper) components. As the term papier collé is not commonly used, this type of work is often simply called collage.\n\nCubist painter Georges Braque, inspired by Pablo Picasso's collage method, invented the technique and first used it in his 1912 work, \"Fruit Dish and Glass\". Braque continued to use the technique in works such as \"Bottle, Newspaper, Pipe, and Glass\". \n\nPapier collé is sometimes also used to refer specifically to the paper collages of the Cubists. \n\nSome of the notable collage artists are:\n\n"}
{"id": "1926730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926730", "title": "Liars (band)", "text": "Liars (band)\n\nLiars is an Australian-American rock band formed in 2000. Angus Andrew is the founding and only constant member of Liars. Previous members include Aaron Hemphill who played with the band from its inception until his amicable departure from the project in 2017, and Julian Gross who joined the band for their second album, \"They Were Wrong, So We Drowned\" released in 2004, and played with the band until his departure in 2014. Liars have released eight studio albums and are signed to Mute Records. They combine elements of punk-rock with electronica.\n\nThe genesis of the band can be traced to Los Angeles, where Andrew (and Gross) were enrolled at Cal Arts, studying in the Photography Program. Hemphill had studied microbiology in Junior College in San Diego, but was then employed in LA at a record store. Upon meeting, Andrew and Hemphill began their collaboration on four-track recordings. Once Andrew had completed art school, they relocated to New York City together and after responding to a well-placed want ad, Pat Noecker (bass, formerly of Neuromancer, Urethra Franklin, and Opium Taylor) and Ron Albertson (drums, formerly of Mercy Rule) joined to become the band's rhythm section.\n\nLiars' debut album \"They Threw Us All in a Trench and Stuck a Monument on Top\" was released on 30 October 2001. Recorded in a mere two days with producer Steve Revitte, the album bore resemblance to the work of Delta 5 and Gang of Four, accenting their angular, acerbic punk with modern synths and drum machines. The album generated interest in the band and gained them a following amongst the post-punk revival scene of New York. It was during this time they were interviewed and filmed in performance for the documentary \"Kill Your Idols\", along with bands like Yeah Yeah Yeahs and Black Dice. Liars were not averse to this attention, but the problem of being pigeon-holed became a pressing challenge for the band to overcome.\n\nAs a four-piece, Liars were only to release two more short EPs. The first was entitled \"We No Longer Knew Who We Were\"; it was an official release of the band's early demos recorded in 2000. The second, however, showcased new material. \"Fins to Make Us More Fish-Like\" (November 2002) showed progression from their signature sound, but without any material that would seem significantly out of place on their debut. Most noteworthy, perhaps, is \"Every Day Is a Child with Teeth\", which concentrates more on sound texture and tense, stuttering percussion than the more danceable rhythms for which they had come to be known.\n\nDue to differences of creative methods, it was agreed that Noecker and Albertson would leave the band to pursue other work. Both joined the short-lived band No Things. Noecker would later pop up in the band These Are Powers. Meanwhile, Andrew and Hemphill reunited with Gross to form the next incarnation of Liars. The first release from Liars as a three-piece was a split EP with the band Oneida, called \"Atheists, Reconsider\" (released December 2002 by the Arena Rock Recording Co.). Liars contributed a cover of Oneida's \"Rose and Licorice,\" as well as two originals. \"Dorothy Taps the Foot of the Tinman\" is a 7+ minute sound collage of kitchen-sink percussion, ambient drones and static, and copy/paste spoken words.\n\nThis newfound experimentation paved the way for Liars' next full-length album, \"They Were Wrong, So We Drowned\" (recorded in March and May 2003, released February 2004). The band relocated to a cabin in the woods of New Jersey for the recording sessions, and along with producer David Andrew Sitek of TV on the Radio immersed themselves in both non-fiction accounts of witch trials and traditional witch folklore. From these sources, Andrew created a generic fairy tale which is told through contrasting viewpoints in the lyrics. This commitment to the material at the heart of the album—a \"story album\" (as opposed to \"concept album\"), according to Andrew—resulted in a thematically rich piece of work that can often feel more atmospheric than musical. The non-traditional instrumentation and song structuring furthers its feel of concept over musicality, along with Sitek's signature harmonies and sound looping. Many critics responded negatively to this aspect of the album, and though it had its fervent supporters, it infamously garnered the lowest possible scores from both \"Spin\" and \"Rolling Stone\" magazines.\n\nCreatively unfazed by the critical response to their unexpected experimental leap, the band relocated once again to Berlin where they would eventually record their third full-length, \"Drum's Not Dead\" (recorded in 2004, released February 2006). During the interim between the recording and release of their previous album, Liars had already begun the work on what would eventually become \"Drum's Not Dead\". Liars began experimenting with modified drum sounds. After much experimentation (and reportedly an entire album's worth of material cast aside), the group completed the album in an East German broadcast center that allowed them a multitude of different acoustic environments for recording. As the title suggests, the album is heavy on drums (often run through various effects pedals), backed mostly by atmospheric guitar work. Andrew also relies more heavily on falsetto than in past work, which gives the album a more ethereal, less gritty sound than is often associated with Liars. Along with the music, \"Drum's Not Dead\" was released with a DVD that contains three full-length video companions to the album: Drum's Not Bread by Julian Gross, The Helix Aspersa by Angus Andrew, and By Your Side by filmmaker Markus Wambsganss.\n\nThe rhythmic electroacoustic experimentalism was not only used in the studio set up, but continued in their live performances during the Drum's Not Dead tour. Microphones taped on Gross drum kit and the percussion set of Hemphill picked up the live played rhythms and were modulated heavily \nby digital real-time processing spring reverbs and pitch shifters forming multi layered drones. The creation of this set-up is outlined in the CD booklet for \"Drum's Not Dead\".\n\nThe band officially announced their album \"Liars\" on May 24, 2007. It was released August 28, 2007 on Mute Records. In support of the album, Liars toured the UK over August 2007, North America over September/October 2007 supporting Interpol, Europe over November/December 2007, North America over January/February 2008 with No Age and May 2008 with Radiohead. The band also participated on Vincent Moon's The Take-Away Shows.\n\nOn November 2, 2009, Pitchfork reported that Liars had updated their MySpace page by posting links to the website www.thesisterworld.com. Upon clicking the door displayed on the website, three short clips are shown, all three of natural landscapes with amplified ambient sounds. However, when the word \"SISTERWORLD\" below the door is clicked, the viewer is taken to the Liars' merchandise page.\n\nOn November 4 the band confirmed that \"Sisterworld\" would be the new album, and would be released in early 2010 on Mute Records. According to the Pitchfork article, It was written and recorded in Los Angeles with Jon Brion collaborator Tom Biller and much inspired by the city. The band had this to say of the record: \n\nIn addition to this, the press release states: The album was released on CD and Vinyl on Tuesday, March 9, 2010.\n\nDuring this time, San Francisco-based artist, musician, and Red Bull enthusiast Jesse Jackson (of Flaspar and Sissy Spacek) joined the band on tour to play auxiliary guitar.\n\nLiars are featured on the latest Beck 'Record Club' in which they covered the INXS album \"Kick\". Angus from the band suggested that they cover this LP.\n\nThe band were chosen by Portishead to perform at the ATP I'll Be Your Mirror festival that they curated in July 2011 at London's Alexandra Palace.\n\nThe band released their sixth album entitled \"'WIXIW\" (pronounced 'wish you') on June 4, 2012. The first single from the album, No. 1 Against the Rush was released on 28 May 2012. It was written in an isolated cabin north of Los Angeles with the aim of removing themselves from the influence of \"extraneous things\". It was recorded in the industrial area of LA, in an unused office block.\n\nRegarding the album's title, the band commented:\n\nAs is common with Liars, the record sees the band explore a radically different sound, largely influenced by electronic music.\n\nOn January 13, 2014, Liars premiered their single \"Mess On A Mission\" and announced the title of their 7th album as \"Mess\", which was released on March 24 via Mute Records.\n\nOn February 20, 2017, Liars updated their site with a short video clip titled TFCF. Another video was later added, called TFCF H, and then TFCF E, and so on. When taking the last letter of each of these videos, the word THEME is spelled out. On June 2, the band released four more videos which spell out the word FROM. On June 15 and June 24, more videos were released spelling the words CRYING and FOUNTAIN, respectively. On May 18, Andrew announced a new Liars album to be released sometime in August, along with the amicable departure of founding member Aaron Hemphill. He will go on tour from August with a new backup band.\n\nThe initialism \"TFCF\" was the title of the band's LP which was released on August 25, 2017. Liars have, as a matter of course, sounded radically different with each album, pursuing new concepts and occupying diverse mindsets. On this, Liars’ eighth studio album, the bustling backdrops of Los Angeles, Berlin and New York have been replaced with a presence far more intimate and autobiographical.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1926733", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926733", "title": "Audrey M. Shuey", "text": "Audrey M. Shuey\n\nAudrey Mary Shuey (1910–1977) was an American psychologist and writer. She served as the Chair of the Department of Psychology at Randolph-Macon College. \n\nAudrey M. Shuey was born in 1910. Shuey took her B.A. at the University of Illinois, her M.A. at Wellesley College, and her Ph.D. at Columbia University where she was a student of Henry Garrett. \n\nShuey served as the Chair of the Department of Psychology at Randolph-Macon Woman's College. \n\nShuey published the book \"The Testing of Negro Intelligence\" (1958, 2nd ed., 1966) surveying and summarizing the results of 40 years of intelligence tests involving whites and blacks. It argued that the 15-point Black-White average IQ difference remained constant from the 1910s to the 1960s, across all regions of the U.S., as well as in Canada and Jamaica. The publication and distribution of her book was funded by the Wickliffe Draper and the Pioneer Fund, in a bid to counter the desegregation of the American school system following Brown vs. Board of Education.\n\nThe scholar Graham Richards noted that Shuey's text relied on unpublished material like masters and doctoral theses, many of which originated in the Deep South, that some pre-1940s material that she used contained methodological flaws, and that she overstated the consistency of her sources.\n\nThe psychologist Hans Eysenck praised Shuey's work.\n\nShuey died in 1977.\n\n"}
{"id": "1926740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926740", "title": "Pal Benko", "text": "Pal Benko\n\nPal Benko (; July 15, 1928 – August 26, 2019) was a Hungarian-American chess player, author, and composer of endgame studies and chess problems.\n\nBenko was born on July 15, 1928 in Amiens, France, where his Hungarian parents were on vacation. He was raised in Hungary. Benko learned to play chess aged eight from his father, but did not compete in tournaments until age 17, due to World War II. During the war, he dug ditches for the Hungarian army before being captured by the Soviet army, which forced him to be a laborer. He eventually escaped to his home, only to find that his brother and father had been sent to Russia as laborers, and his mother died as the war neared its conclusion.\n\nBenko made rapid progress once he began tournament play, and became Hungarian champion by age 20. He qualified for the 1952 Interzonal tournament, but was unable to compete as he was sent to a concentration camp in March 1952 for attempting to defect to the American embassy in West Berlin during a chess tournament in East Berlin. He starved and saw others around him die. He remained imprisoned for 16 months, attaining release after Stalin's death. He emigrated to the United States in 1958 after defecting following the World Student Team Championship in Reykjavík, Iceland, in 1957. FIDE awarded him the title of Grandmaster in 1958. He was previously awarded the title of International Master in 1950.\n\nBenko's highest achievement was qualifying and competing in the Candidates Tournament—the tournament to decide the challenger for the World Championship—in 1959 and 1962. Both tournaments had eight of the world's top players. He finished eighth in 1959 and sixth in 1962. Benko qualified for the 1970 Interzonal tournament, the leaders of which advance to the Candidates. He gave up his spot in the Interzonal to Bobby Fischer, however, who went on to win the World Championship in 1972.\n\nBenko finished in first place (or tied for first place) in eight U.S. Open Chess Championships, a record. His titles were: 1961, 1964, 1965, 1966, 1967, 1969, 1974, 1975. He won the 1964 Canadian Open Chess Championship. He represented Hungary at the 1957 Student Olympiad in Reykjavík on , scoring 7½/12, and Hungary was fourth as a team. He had earlier played for the national Hungarian team at the Moscow 1956 Olympiad, on board three, scoring 10/15, and helping Hungary to team bronze. He moved to the United States, but it was not until 1962 that he appeared on the U.S. team. He would wind up on six teams in a row. At Varna 1962, Benko played board two, scored 8/12 for the silver medal on his board, and the U.S. finished fourth. At Tel Aviv 1964, he was again on board two, scored 9½/14, and the U.S. ended up sixth. At Havana 1966, Benko was on board three, scored 8/12, and the Americans won team silver. At Lugano 1968, he made 6/12 on board three, and the U.S. finished fourth. At Siegen 1970, Benko was on board four, scoring 8½/12, and the Americans again finished fourth. His last Olympiad was Skopje 1972, where he played on board three, made 9½/16, and the U.S. ended up ninth.\n\nBenko defeated four players who held the World Champion title at some point in time. They are Bobby Fischer, Mikhail Tal, Tigran Petrosian, and Vassily Smyslov. His career score against Fischer was three wins, eight losses and seven draws. After Fischer retired, Benko was one of the few players with whom he maintained contact; reportedly the two corresponded every week. According to Chessmetrics, at his best, Benko was ranked 17th in the world, with a peak rating of 2687.\n\nIn later life Benko was a tutor to many up-and-coming players from his native Hungary; his students included the Polgár sisters (Susan, Sofia, Judit Polgár) and Peter Leko. Benko had a column on chess endgames in \"Chess Life\" magazine, which is published by the United States Chess Federation, for decades: \"In the Arena\" (1972–1981), \"Endgame Lab\" (1981–2013), and chess problem column \"Benko's Bafflers\". In 2003 he revised Reuben Fine's book \"Basic Chess Endings\". Benko died on August 26, 2019, in Budapest at the age of 91.\n\nSome chess openings Benko pioneered are named for him:\n\n\nHe was awarded the title of International Master of Chess Composition by FIDE, and was inducted into the U.S. Chess Hall of Fame in 1993.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1926742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926742", "title": "Dapol", "text": "Dapol\n\nDapol Ltd is a Welsh model railway manufacturer based in Chirk, Wales. The factory where design and manufacturing take place is just over the border in England. The company is known for its model railway products in N gauge and OO gauge. \n\nDapol's name is a play on its founders David and Pauline Boyle's names. He owned a model concern Highfield Birds & Models. In 1981 he first tried to buy the Airfix and Mainline ranges.\n\nThe Dapol brand name was first used in a Railway Modeller advert of September 1983. The first Dapol wagons (for OO) were announced to become available on 20 November 1983. From 1 March 1984 ex Airfix railway kits became available.\n\nLater in the year the Railway Modeller carried a two-page profile of the new concern with the upbeat title \"An exciting new model empire\". A lot of David Boyle's background was explored. Some of Dapol's ambitions were frustrated. That article said that the Austerity 2-8-0 and the LMS Beyer Garratt were both under development for 1985 but they never appeared from Dapol. However the L&YR Pug, the Austerity 0-6-0ST and the GWR Hawksworth County which were announced early in 1984 were all produced promptly, well reviewed and have had long model lives. At this time the operation was headquartered in Navigation Road, Northwich.\n\nDuring 1985 Dapol successfully bought Mainline (and thereby the former Airfix) model railway ranges from Palitoy.\n\nIt was announced in the Railway Modeller of February 1989 that Dapol had bought the former Trix/British Liliput range from Ernest Rosza. The Dapol 1989 catalogue also showed that the Model-Land building range had been bought.\n\nIn 1994, while the company was moving to its previous location at Llangollen in North Wales, a huge fire destroyed the old site at Winsford in Cheshire, and large quantities of products and historical Wrenn material were destroyed.\n\nIn 1996 Dapol sold many of its inherited model railway lines to Hornby.\n\nIn 1998 the company came under the control of a new board of directors headed by George Smith, who retired on 1 October 2010. The company remains in the ownership of the Boyle family who founded the company.\n\nIn 2001 Dapol sold the little-exploited Wrenn product line (bought in 1993 from Wrenn) and trading name to three Wrenn collectors.\n\nFrom 1988–2001 Dapol also produced a wide range of \"Doctor Who\" action figures. In 2002 the BBC declined to renew the licence. The Dapol site also hosted the 'BBC \"Doctor Who\" Experience' exhibition until 2003.\n\nIn 2004 Dapol were awarded the 'UK Small Business of the Year' award.\n\nIn 2007 Dapol were awarded the Model Rail (magazine) 'N-gauge Manufacturer of the Year' award.\n\nIn 2010 Dapol were awarded the Model Rail (magazine) 'N-gauge manufacturer of the year', 'Best N gauge steam loco of the year' (Terrier), 'Best N-gauge Diesel locomotive of the year' (class 67), Best N-gauge Rolling Stock of the year (MK3 coach) making a 'clean sweep' for all the awards for N gauge.\n\nIn 2010, following the retirement of previous MD George Smith, Dapol welcomed a new managing director, Joel Bright, a director for the previous eight years and uncle of the current owner, Craig Boyle.\n\nDapol manufactures a growing range of N gauge locomotives, coaches and wagons, and is the main competitor of Graham Farish in the British 'ready-to-run' market. Continuous improvement in model specifications has led to the introduction of 40:1 gearing in locomotive drive mechanisms, NEM couplings on all stock, and LED lighting strips for coaching stock (yellow for 'older' coaches, to represent incandescent illumination, and white for more modern coaches and EMUs to represent fluorescent fittings).\n\nIn 00 gauge, Dapol manufactures ready-to-run locomotives, wagons and kits.\n\nKits are moulded in grey plastic (polystyrene) and the range features buildings, road vehicles, wagons and locos. Some of the kits use moulds bought in 1993 from the Airfix company, some of which in turn originated with Kitmaster prior to being bought by Airfix in 1962. Others have come from the Lines Brothers Model-Land range.\n\nThe first OO scale locomotives to be entirely originated by Dapol were the L&YR Pug 0-4-0ST, the Austerity 0-6-0ST and GWR County 4-6-0 generated in 1984/5. The next was the LB&SCR Terrier. This was shown in the 1988 catalogue having been announced at the 1987 Toy Fair.\n\n"}
{"id": "1926746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926746", "title": "Abraham Lincoln Presidential Library and Museum", "text": "Abraham Lincoln Presidential Library and Museum\n\nThe Abraham Lincoln Presidential Library and Museum documents the life of the 16th U.S. President, Abraham Lincoln, and the course of the American Civil War. Combining traditional scholarship with 21st-century showmanship techniques, the museum ranks as one of the most visited presidential libraries. Its library, in addition to housing an extensive collection on Lincoln, also houses the collection of the Illinois State Historical Library, founded by the state in 1889. The library and museum is located in the state capital of Springfield, Illinois, and is overseen as an agency of state government. It is not affiliated with the U.S. National Archives and its system of libraries.\n\nThe museum contains life-size dioramas of Lincoln's boyhood home, areas of the White House, the presidential box at Ford's Theatre, and the settings of key events in Lincoln's life, as well as pictures, artifacts and other memorabilia. Original artifacts are changed from time to time, but the collection usually includes items like the original hand written Gettysburg Address, a signed Emancipation Proclamation, his glasses and shaving mirror, Mary Todd Lincoln's music box, items from her White House china, her wedding dress, and more. The permanent exhibits are divided into two different stages of the president's life, called \"Journey One: The Pre-Presidential Years\", and \"Journey Two: The Presidential Years\", and a third, the \"Treasures Gallery\". Temporary exhibits rotate periodically. Past exhibits have dealt with the Civil War and Stephen A. Douglas. , a collection of Annie Leibovitz's photography, including photos of Lincoln's items, is on display.\n\nOne of the museum's permanent exhibits, \"Campaign of 1860\", includes modern-style television updates on the campaign's progress from the late \"Meet the Press\" anchor Tim Russert. Another of the permanent exhibits, \"The Civil War in Four Minutes,\" displays a large animated map which displays the changing battle lines of the Civil War in four minutes. In addition to its exhibits, the Lincoln Museum runs two special effects theater shows, \"Lincoln's Eyes\" and \"Ghosts of the Library\".\n\nThe \"Under His Hat: Discovering Lincoln's Story From Primary Sources\", is the home of the Lincoln Collection Digitization Project, a thematic online resource that features a 360-degree online view of his hat (the actual hat is, , also on display at the museum).\n\nBurbank, California-based BRC Imagination Arts, led by Bob Rogers, was responsible for all of the permanent exhibits and presentations, music, theaters, lifelike figures and full-immersion historical settings.\n\nThe Lincoln Presidential Library is a research library which houses books, papers and artifacts related to Lincoln's life and the American Civil War. In addition to the works associated with Lincoln and his era, the library houses the collection of the Illinois State Historical Library (founded by the state in 1889) and serves as a premier repository of books, pamphlets, manuscripts, and other materials of historical interest pertaining to the history of the state of Illinois. While the library is open to the public, its rare collection is non-circulating. A reading room, named the \"Steve Neal Reading Room\" in honor of Illinois historical journalist Steve Neal, is open to the public.\n\nThe Abraham Lincoln Presidential Library and Museum was administered by the Illinois Historic Preservation Agency, until it was made into an independent state agency in 2017. Historian and former director of several presidential libraries, Richard Norton Smith, served as the museum and library's Founding Executive Director.\n\nIn 2010, Eileen R. Mackevich, MBE, was appointed director by Illinois Governor Pat Quinn. Mackevich formerly served as the Executive Director of the national Abraham Lincoln Bicentennial Commission. She was also active as a broadcast journalist and talk show host on Chicago public radio, and was the co-founder of the Chicago Humanities Festival. Mackevich's objectives were to raise money, and attract more international interest. She served until in 2015.\n\nIn 2016, Governor Bruce Rauner appointed Alan Lowe as director of the museum and library. He served as Director of the George W. Bush Presidential Center in Dallas, Texas before accepting his position at the ALPLM.\n\nAs First Lady of Illinois, Lura Lynn Ryan became a major fundraiser and the Library's first chairwoman. She launched the fundraising for the library by raising $250,000. Ryan also organized a program in which Illinois schoolchildren collected pennies for the construction of the presidential library, which raised $47,000 dollars. Ryan was appointed to the 14-member Abraham Lincoln Bicentennial Commission by the Speaker of the United States House of Representatives to commemorate the 200th birthday of former U.S. President Abraham Lincoln in 2009. She served on the commission from 2001 to 2010.\n\nThe Abraham Lincoln Presidential Library and Museum is located in Springfield, Illinois, in the historic downtown section, near many other Lincoln cultural sites. The presidential library opened on October 14, 2004, and the museum opened on April 19, 2005. Until 1970, Ford's Theatre in Washington, D.C. was designated as the \"Lincoln Museum\".\n\nThe buildings which now house the Abraham Lincoln Presidential Library and Museum are in three separate structures. Each structure encompasses one city block.\n\nTwo of the buildings, the museum and the library, are separated by a street and connected above the street level by an enclosed walkway. The entrance of each building features a rotunda, reflective of the dome on the Old State Capitol State Historic Site in Springfield, where Lincoln served four terms as a legislator. Both structures were designed by the architectural firm HOK.\n\nThe third building, the former Springfield Union Station, had originally been adapted to serve as the museum's visitor center. However, since early 2014, the station has, instead, housed an exhibit called \"Lincoln: History To Hollywood\", which displays two sets, as well as several props and costumes, from the 2012 film \"Lincoln\", directed by Steven Spielberg. The sets, props, and costumes are on loan to the Museum directly from Spielberg himself, and will remain on display (with costumes rotating in and out) through December 2019.\n\nThe museum has sparked debate within the field of museum design and among historians for its use of theatrics and inaccurate reproductions to tell the Lincoln story. Public response has been positive, delivering larger than expected attendance, enthusiastic visitors and a boost to the regional economy, including increased attendance at surrounding historical attractions.\n\nHowever, museum traditionalists have disapproved of this departure from the display and interpretation of real artifacts. Southern Illinois University Carbondale historian John Y. Simon have said the museum's approach, which borrows presentation technologies from entertainment, trivializes the subject matter. Suggesting that it is more like a theme park than a museum, Simon called the Abraham Lincoln Presidential Museum a \"Six Flags Over Lincoln\" and architecture critic Blair Kamin referred to it as \"Lincoln Land.\"\n\nOther academics applaud the Lincoln Museum's approach. John R. Decker wrote in the \"Journal of American History\":\n\nLike any other modern collection (the Lincoln Presidential museum) has an audience base that extends far beyond specialists and academics. Rather than merely pandering to the public or dumbing down history, the ALPLM intelligently and compellingly uses visual culture to meet its mission as a public pedagogical institution. The museum addresses complex historical material and opens the historical discourse to a wider audience than would be possible through more conventional means.\nThe scholarship behind the content and design for the Abraham Lincoln Presidential Museum was a collaboration between international exhibit designers, BRC Imagination Arts, the Illinois Historic Preservation Agency (IHPA), and a content team assembled by state historian Dr. Thomas H. Schwartz. This content team included the world's leading Lincoln scholars, Pulitzer Prize winning historians, and Illinois school teachers representing the fourth, seventh and eleventh grades. A key goal of this collective was that exhibits promote a greater level of personal interest in Abraham Lincoln. The museum's gift shop has seen record sales of history books. Overall sales in the gift shop hit $1 million within three months of the museum's opening to the public.\n\nSince its opening in April 2005, the Abraham Lincoln Presidential Museum has ranked as America's most visited state-controlled presidential museum. In about six months the museum generated about $1 million. In less than twenty-one months, the museum received its one millionth visitor. In August 2012, the museum received its three millionth visitor, with the steady attendance continuing. Museum officials credited the Steven Spielberg movie \"Lincoln\" for an increase in visitors in 2013, as the museum displayed artifacts from the film.\n\nThe Abraham Lincoln Presidential Museum has been recognized with two awards: a Thea Award for Outstanding Achievement from the Themed Entertainment Association, and an award from The Lincoln Group of New York, which every year honors \"the individual or organization that has done the most to encourage the study and appreciation of Abraham Lincoln\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1926755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926755", "title": "Memory (Cats song)", "text": "Memory (Cats song)\n\n\"Memory\" is a show tune composed by Andrew Lloyd Webber, with lyrics by Trevor Nunn based on a poem by T. S. Eliot. It was written for the 1981 musical \"Cats\", where it is sung primarily by the character Grizabella as a melancholic remembrance of her glamorous past and as a plea for acceptance. \"Memory\" is the climax of the musical and by far its best-known song, having achieved mainstream success outside of the musical. According to musicologist Jessica Sternfeld, it is \"by some estimations the most successful song ever from a musical.\"\n\nElaine Paige originated the role of Grizabella in the West End production of \"Cats\", and was thus the first to perform the song publicly on stage. \"Memory\" was named the Best Song Musically and Lyrically at the 1982 Ivor Novello Awards.\n\nIn \"Cats\", \"Memory\" is sung primarily by Grizabella, a one-time \"glamour cat\" who has fallen on hard times and is now only a shell of her former self. For most of the musical, Grizabella is ostracised by her fellow Jellicle cats. She sings a prelude version of \"Memory\" at the end of the first act, recalling the time before she became an outcast.\n\nMelodic fragments of \"Memory\" are then sung twice in a higher D major key by Jemima (also known as Sillabub), a young cat who is sympathetic to Grizabella's plight. The first instance occurs at the beginning of the second act after \"The Moments of Happiness\", and the second instance occurs near the end of the second act right before Grizabella's final appearance. As Grizabella returns near the end of the musical, she sings the full version of the song as she pleads for acceptance, with Jemima joining in briefly to urge her on.\n\nAndrew Lloyd Webber originally composed the tune for a proposed Giacomo Puccini project that he later abandoned. Although the tune was intentionally written in the style of Puccini, Lloyd Webber was concerned that he had unknowingly lifted it from one of Puccini's works. He asked his father, a noted expert on Puccini, for his opinion on whether it sounded like one of the composer's works; according to Lloyd Webber, his father responded: \"It sounds like a million dollars!\" Prior to its inclusion in \"Cats\", the composition had also been earmarked for his early draft of \"Sunset Boulevard\".\n\nThe widow of Larry Clinton claimed that \"Memory\" was based on Clinton's \"Bolero Blue\", which in turn was based on Maurice Ravel's \"Boléro\". Musicologist John Snelson dismissed this claim however, noting the difference in the phrasing between \"Boléro\" and \"Memory\": the former is long and continuous, while the latter is centered on a repeated tone and a \"turnlike figure\" to emphasize said tone. Snelson further argues that the chord progression (I-vi-IV-iii) and time signature () in \"Memory\" are more akin to popular music of the time, suggesting a completely different origin than \"Boléro\".\n\n\"Cats\" is based on a 1939 book of poems by T. S. Eliot, \"Old Possum's Book of Practical Cats\", and the lyrics for \"Memory\" were adapted from Eliot's poem \"Rhapsody on a Windy Night\" by the musical's director Trevor Nunn. Lloyd Webber's former writing partners Don Black and Tim Rice had also each submitted a lyric to the show's producers for consideration, although Nunn's version was favoured. Elaine Paige was given a different lyric to sing to the tune of \"Memory\" every night during previews for \"Cats\".\n\nThere are three key changes in \"Memory\" so as to keep the song within the comfortable range for a chest voice. It starts off in the key of B-flat major, switches to G-flat major as Grizabella collapses, then changes again to D-flat major for the climax. Lloyd Webber and Nunn wrote two versions of the song: one for the stage production and another for the original London cast recording. In the stage version, a section of the song is sung an octave higher by the kitten Jemima; the reasoning was that the low pitch (as sung by Grizabella in the cast recording) would be difficult to hear in the live theatre setting and moreover, this duet would allow for a visual contrast between the innocent young kitten and the fallen Grizabella in the stage show. The stage version also features different lyrics as it was felt that a kitten would not sing about the same hard times as Grizabella.\n\nThe first commercial release of \"Memory\" was an instrumental single performed by guitarist Gary Moore. It was released in early 1981 by MCA Records to promote \"Cats\" while the musical was still in development. Paige heard this version driving home one evening and rushed into the house to record it from the radio, vowing to contact Lloyd Webber to insist on recording a vocal version of it. Before she was able to do so, the following morning he rang her to ask whether she would, at short notice, replace the injured Judi Dench as Grizabella in the London production of \"Cats\". Paige later recalled that the opportunity to sing \"Memory\" was the principal reason for agreeing.\n\nIn the 2019 film adaptation featuring Jennifer Hudson as Grizabella, Jemima's soprano part was given to Victoria the White Cat.\n\nElaine Paige, who originated the role of Grizabella in the West End production of \"Cats\", released a version of the song that was a Top 10 hit in the UK, peaking at #6 on the UK Singles Chart in July 1981.\n\nShe re-recorded the song in 1998 for the video release of the musical. This version, featuring the amended lyrics, reached #36 in the UK Singles Chart in October of that year. Paige also recorded a version for her 1983 album \"Stages\", produced by Tony Visconti. Live performances of \"Memory\", which is considered her signature song, are featured on her albums \"Performance\", \"Live: Celebrating A Life On Stage\", and \"I'm Still Here: Live at the Royal Albert Hall\". She also performed the song for Andrew Lloyd Webber's 50th birthday concert, released on DVD as \"Andrew Lloyd Webber: Celebration\", for the first Chinese concerts of his work, released on DVD as \"Andrew Lloyd Webber: Masterpiece.\" She sang it for the recording of \"This is Your Life\" (1994) focused on the composer, and the BBC's concert for his 60th birthday in Hyde Park, London, which was filmed but, as of 2020, has never been broadcast.\n\n\"Memory\" has been covered by numerous musical acts. By 2006, there were around 600 recorded versions of the song, ranging from easy listening to techno covers. Among the more notable are:\n\n\nBarbra Streisand recorded \"Memory\" (produced by Lloyd Webber himself) for her 1981 album \"Memories\". When released as a single, Streisand's cover reached No. 52 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 chart and No. 9 on the \"Billboard\" adult contemporary chart in 1982. In the UK this version peaked at No. 34 the same year.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1926763", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926763", "title": "Chocolate balls", "text": "Chocolate balls\n\nChocolate balls are a spherical confection made of or dipped into chocolate. Other ingredients may include peanut butter or marzipan.\n\nIn Nordic countries, most notably Sweden, Denmark and Iceland, chokladboll or kokosbollar are chocolate balls covered in coconut.\n\n"}
{"id": "1926779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926779", "title": "Cotinus coggygria", "text": "Cotinus coggygria\n\nCotinus coggygria, syn. \"Rhus cotinus\", the European smoketree, Eurasian smoketree, smoke tree, smoke bush, Venetian sumach, or \"dyer's sumach\" is a species of flowering plant in the family Anacardiaceae, native to a large area from southern Europe, east across central Asia and the Himalayas to northern China.\n\nIt is a multiple-branching shrub growing to tall with an open, spreading, irregular habit, only rarely forming a small tree. The leaves are 3–8 cm long rounded ovals, green with a waxy glaucous sheen. The autumn colour can be strikingly varied, from peach and yellow to scarlet. The flowers are numerous, produced in large inflorescences long; each flower 5–10 mm diameter, with five pale yellow petals. Most of the flowers in each inflorescence abort, elongating into yellowish-pink to pinkish-purple feathery plumes (when viewed en masse these have a wispy 'smoke-like' appearance, hence the common name) which surround the small (2–3 mm) drupaceous fruit that do develop.\n\nIt is commonly grown as an ornamental plant, with several cultivars available. Many of these have been selected for purple foliage and flowers.\n\nThe following cultivars have gained the Royal Horticultural Society's Award of Garden Merit:-\nThe wood was formerly used to make the yellow dye called young fustic. \n\nMacrofossils of \"Cotinus coggygria\" from the early Pliocene epoch have been found in Western Georgia in the Caucasus region.\n\n"}
{"id": "1926783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926783", "title": "San Francisco Unified School District", "text": "San Francisco Unified School District\n\nSan Francisco Unified School District (SFUSD), established in 1851, is the only public school district within the City and County of San Francisco, and the first in the state of California. Under the management of the San Francisco Board of Education, the district serves more than 55,500 students in more than 160 institutions.\n\nSFUSD utilizes an intra-district school choice system and requires students and parents to submit a selection application. Every year in the fall, the SFUSD hosts a Public School Enrollment Fair to provide families access to information about all the schools in the district. This system is set to change as the school board has resolved to overhaul the system to ensure that more students (at least at the elementary level) are placed at neighborhood schools.\n\nSFUSD has the second highest Academic Performance Index among the seven largest California school districts. \"Newsweek’s\" national ranking of \"Best High Schools in America\" named seven SFUSD high schools among the top five percent in the country in 2007. In 2005, two SFUSD schools were recognized by the federal government as No Child Left Behind Blue-Ribbon Schools.\n\nSFUSD previously practiced a race-based admissions system. In 1983 the NAACP sued the school district and won a consent decree that mandated that no more than 45% of any racial group may make up the percentage of students at a single school. At the time, white and black students were the largest demographic groups in the school district. The decree was intended to benefit black children. When it was discovered that Hispanic children also had low test scores, they were added to the decree's intended beneficiaries.\n\nIn a five-year period ending in 1999, Asian and Latino students were the largest demographic groups in the SFUSD. In 1994, after several ethnic Chinese students were denied admission to programs because too many ethnic Chinese students were present, ethnic Chinese parents sued SFUSD arguing that the system promoted racial discrimination. On April 15, 1998, the Chinese-American group asked a federal appeals court to end the admissions practice. The system required ethnic Chinese students to receive higher scores than other ethnic groups in order to be admitted to Lowell High School, the city's most prestigious public high school. Waldemar Rojas, the superintendent, wanted to keep the decree because the district had received $37 million in desegregation funds. The NAACP had defended the decree. White parents who were against the racial quotas had a tendency to leave San Francisco.\n\nIn 1998 a federal appeals court ruled that the race-based criteria should not be ended, but that SFUSD is required to justify why it required higher test scores from ethnic Chinese applicants to gain admission to the school district's most prestigious high school and that the school district is required to prove, during a trial held in the 1999-2000 school year, that segregation is remaining in the school system and that the limitation of the ethnic groups at each school is the only possible remedy. On February 16, 1999, lawyers representing the Chinese parents revealed that the school district had agreed to a settlement that removed the previous race-based admission system; William Orrick, the U.S. district judge, had planned to officially announce the news of the settlement the following day. The district planned to implement a \"diversity index\" in which race was one factor, but in December 1999 Orrick rejected the plan as unconstitutional. Orrick ordered the district to resubmit the plan without race as a factor or to resubmit the plan under the settlement that had been reached with the Chinese parents. In January 2000 the district agreed to remove race as a factor of consideration for admission. In 2007 the U.S. Supreme Court had ruled that race may not be an admission factor for a K-12 school.\n\nAs of 2007 SFUSD admission factors include race-neutral aspects, such as the socioeconomic status of a student's family. Lyanne Melendez of \"KGO-TV\" wrote in 2007 \"but the local courts and the district have found that race-neutral factors haven't worked in San Francisco's case.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe following is a list of SFUSD Superintendents: (additional information is needed to complete the list between 1851 and 1934)\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1926786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926786", "title": "Diary of George Fletcher Moore", "text": "Diary of George Fletcher Moore\n\nThe diary of George Fletcher Moore is an important record of early colonial life in Western Australia, because it is one of a few records that were written from the point of view of an ordinary colonist, as opposed to the official correspondence of a salaried public official. Tom Stannage describes the diary as \"an immensely valuable social document\" and \"the best published guide we have to life in Swan River colony between 1830 and 1840.\"\n\nMoore was an Irish lawyer who settled in the Swan River Colony in 1830, the colony's second year. He describes his decision to keep a journal as follows:\n\nMoore's handwritten diary for the period from 1834 to 1841 is extant, and is held by the State Library of Western Australia.\n\nPortions of Moore's letters and diary have been published a number of times. The letters from 1830 to mid-1833 were published in 1834 as Extracts from the Letters and Journals of George Fletcher Moore, now filling a judicial office at the Swan River Settlement. Publication was at the request of Moore's father Joseph, and may have been without George Fletcher Moore's knowledge.\n\nIn the early 1880s, Moore's letters fell into the hands of Sir Thomas Cockburn Campbell, editor of \"The West Australian\" newspaper. Cockburn Campbell sought and received Moore's permission to publish them in \"The West\". The letters appeared in serial during 1881 and 1882, and a copy of each issue was sent to Moore, who kept a scrapbook of them. In 1884, Moore decided to publish them afresh, together with a reprint of his 1842 \"A Descriptive Vocabulary of the Language of the Aborigines\". These were published under the title Diary of Ten Years Eventful Life of an Early Settler in Western Australia and also A Descriptive Vocabulary of the Language of the Aborigines. Commonly referred to by the shorter title Diary of Ten Years, this is the best known edition of Moore's diary.\n\nIn 2006, Hesperian Press issued a version of Moore's diary and letters carefully edited and annotated by James Cameron under the title The Millendon Memoirs: George Fletcher Moore's Western Australian Diaries and Letters, 1830-1841.\n"}
{"id": "1926790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926790", "title": "The Trouble with Islam Today", "text": "The Trouble with Islam Today\n\nThe Trouble with Islam Today, originally titled \"The Trouble with Islam\", is a 2004 book critical of Islam written by Irshad Manji, styled as an open letter to concerned citizens worldwide, Muslim or not.\n\nIn the book the author aims to provide an examination of what she describes as \"the inferior treatment of women in Islam\"; \"Jew-bashing that so many Muslims persistently engage in\", \"the continuing scourge of slavery in countries ruled by Islamic regimes\", \"literalist readings of the Koran\" and \"the lost traditions of critical thinking (Ijtihad)\".\n\nIn the book, Manji says that an Arab failure to accept the Jews' historical bond with Palestine is a mistake. Manji writes that the Jews' historical roots stretch back to the land of Israel, and that they have a right to a Jewish state. She further argues that the allegation of apartheid in Israel is deeply misleading, noting that there are in Israel several Arab political parties; that Arab-Muslim legislators have veto powers; and that Arab parties have overturned disqualifications. She also writes that Israel has a free Arab press; that road signs bear Arabic translations; and that Arabs live and study alongside Jews.\n\n\n\nTranslations:\n\n\"The Trouble with Islam Today\" has been translated into more than 30 languages. Manji has made multiple translations of the book (namely Arabic, Urdu, Malay and Persian) available for free download on her website, with the intention of reaching readers in those countries where her book is banned.\n\nSince its publication, the book has been met with both praise and criticism from Muslim and non-Muslim sources. Khaleel Mohammed, an imam and professor of Islam at San Diego State University, wrote in his foreword to Manji's book that \"Irshad wants us to do what our Holy Book wants us to do: end the tribal posturing, open our eyes, and stand up to oppression, even if it's rationalized by our vaunted imams.\" On the other hand, M. Junaid Levesque-Alam claimed that the book ignored scholarship by Jewish historians on alleged Israeli ethnic cleansing against Palestinians. He also stated that the book is openly feted by Americans who have advocated war on Iraq and Iran.\n\nJane Mansbridge, Adams Professor of Political Leadership and Democratic Values at Harvard University, suggests that Manji's book \"[carries] a fresh and convincing message to the coming generation.”, while Andrew Sullivan, in a book review for \"The New York Times\" called Manji \"courageous\" and opined that the book's spirit is \"long overdue\".\n\nKhaled Almeena, editor of the \"Arab News\" in Saudi Arabia, called the book \"fraudulent\" and stated that it misrepresents itself as a guide to Islam.\n\nQuantara, a website promoting interfaith dialogue, mentions that \"Irshad Manji breaks every taboo in the book while also challenging our prejudices about Islam. What's more, she does so as a Muslim, not as a Westernized woman preaching from the pulpit of a feminist ivory tower.\".\n\nTarek Fatah, a fellow Canadian Muslim, who originally criticized \"The Trouble With Islam\" reversed his stance by saying that Manji was \"right about the systematic racism in the Muslim world\" and that \"there were many redeeming points in her memoir\".\n\n\nDownloads from the author's official website:\n"}
{"id": "1926792", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926792", "title": "Battleboro, North Carolina", "text": "Battleboro, North Carolina\n\nBattleboro is a former town and community in the city of Rocky Mount in Edgecombe and Nash counties of North Carolina, United States.\n\nIn 1835 Joseph S. Battle established Battle's Camp along the Wilmington and Raleigh Railroad. The settlement was initially located entirely in Edgecombe County, North Carolina, but in 1871 the county line was altered to run along the railroad and Battle's Camp straddled both Edgecombe and Nash counties. In 1873 the community was incorporated as the town of Battleboro. By 1900 the town had 229 residents. Two years later the business district was destroyed in a fire, but it was later rebuilt. By 1990 the town had grown to include 447 residents. In April 1994, a black rights group, Concerned Citizens for Battleboro, initiated a boycott of local white-owned businesses in protest of alleged harassment by authorities after a black woman was maced by a police officer and arrested for intervening in a traffic stop involving her niece. The boycott garnered national media attention and forced the town's largest grocery store to close. \n\nOver the next few years many residents of the Battleboro began urging that the town be annexed by the larger city of Rocky Mount, mostly to receive cheaper government services. The all-white Battleboro Board of Commissioners repeatedly refused to consider the matter, leading racial minorities in the town to accuse the board of discrimination. On June 4, 1996 residents of the community voted in a nonbinding referendum 132-34 in favor of annexation. Battleboro was incorporated into Rocky Mount later that year.\n"}
{"id": "1926795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926795", "title": "Vardøhus Fortress", "text": "Vardøhus Fortress\n\nVardøhus Fortress () is located in Vardø Municipality in Troms og Finnmark county, Norway. It is located in the town of Vardø on the island of Vardøya on the Barents Sea near the mouth of the Varangerfjord in northeastern Norway near the Russian border.\n\nIn 1251, an embassy from the Republic of Novgorod to King Haakon IV Haakonson of Norway complained of clashes between the Norwegians and the Karelians in northern Finnmark. A Norwegian embassy was dispatched to Novgorod where a treaty (the original of which is now lost) was signed to conclude a peace between the two countries, including the Novgorod tributary land of Karelia.\n\nThe Finnmark coast was originally important as a source of furs from the trade with the Karelians, but this trade dropped off as the Hanseatic League increased the fur trade through their Novgorod centre. Finnmark remained important as a fishery; the fish was shipped as stockfish to Bergen and traded there with the Hansa merchants.\n\nThe first fortification was erected by Haakon V Magnusson in 1306 and was called \"Varghøya\". It is not known how long this fort was manned, but in 1307 the Archbishop of Trondhjem went to Vardøhus to consecrate the new Vardø Church. The earliest record still extant which defines the border between Norway and Russia is from 1326. In 1340, records show the Archbishop made further efforts to improve conditions there.\n\nThe second fortification to be built was in Østervågen (the \"East Bay\") which was erected between 1450 and 1500. This fortification was rectangular with two corner bastions. It appears on various maps from the 14th and 15th century. \n\nThe Captain of Vardøhus owned a share of the fishery. While visiting the fort in 1511, Erik Valkendorf wrote: \"the country would not be habitable for Christians were it not that the catch of fish is so plentiful as to attract people to settle down there. And this dried fish, which they call 'stockfish', is so valuable and excellent that it is exported to nearly every Christian country.\"\n\nIn 1583, the Norwegian rights to the Arctic Sea were formally recognized by England; the agreement stipulated that each vessel which passed into the White Sea was to stop at Vardøhus to pay duty.\n\nIn 1597, Boris Godunov ('de facto' regent of Russia from 1584 to 1598 and Tsar from 1598 to 1605) wrote to King Christian IV of Denmark and Norway, asserting that Vardøhus and \"the Lapp country (as far as Tromsø) was from ancient times a perpetual patrimony of the Czar.\" In 1600, Gudunov refused to ratify the Treaty of Tyavzino which resolved conflicting Swedish and Russian claims to the Kola peninsula to the east of Vardøhus as well as other territories both claimed. This treaty did not acknowledge the Norwegian presence at Vardøhus nor the Norwegian claims to this territory. As a result of these border conflicts with Russia, King Christian IV of Denmark-Norway asserted Norway’s historic ownership and visited Vardøhus in 1599 to instruct the governor of Vardøhus to collect taxes from Russians in his province including the Kola peninsula and to exclude the Swedes, who were also attempting to claim the territory based on the Treaty of Tyavzino. At this time, Vardøhus was so decrepit that he continued to live onboard his ship, \"Victor\". His name has been preserved as it was carved on a beam from the 1599 fort to commemorate the visit. As a further effort at improving his hold on Finnmark, Christian IV built the fortress of Altenhus near Alta in 1610.\n\nBy the 1730s, Vardøhus had become decrepit. The seat of government of Finnmark was transferred from Vardøhus to Altengaard. Major upgrades to the current fortress began in 1738.\n\nVardøhus did not see enemy action until the 20th century. The last time the fortifications were on active anti-invasion duty was during the First World War. The Second World War saw the fortress used as an anti-aircraft site and as a POW camp before the German occupation.\n\nDuring the period from the beginning of the Second World War to the German invasion of Norway, Vardøhus Fortress was an active unit under the command of Naval District no. 3 in Tromsø. For a time during the Winter War, 15-20 Finnish soldiers were interned at the fortress after being pushed across the border from Northern Finland by Soviet offensives.\n\nAt the outbreak of the German invasion on 9 April 1940, Vardøhus was under the command of Captain Johan Basilier Basilier. The garrison consisted of one retired lieutenant, two privates, ten non-combatant military personnel, and two civilians.\n\nThe weapons at the disposal of the garrison in 1940 were:\n\nDuring the evening of 9 April 1940 Captain Basilier received orders to mobilize a small number of additional soldiers to guard the fortress. With the announcement of general mobilization on 11 April further troops were called in for service.\n\nCaptain Basilier, who had been suffering from poor health since Easter that year, took sick leave on 13 April and was replaced by Navy Lieutenant B. Bjerkelund. From this date a full mobilization was carried out in the Vardø area, in addition the members of the local rifle association were deployed to guard duty at important objectives. Soon the entire island was under guard, and coast guard and air observation posts were operational. All the different outposts were connected to the fortress via telephone lines. The machine guns at the fortress were readied for use with improvised anti-aircraft mounts produced by a local blacksmith.\n\nA few days after the full mobilization began a force of 150 men were at the disposal of the commander of Vardøhus and by the 10 June cease-fire around 215 men sorted under Vardøhus Fortress.\n\nOn 20 April 1940 the commander in chief of Northern Norway, General Carl Gustav Fleischer, issued orders to the 3rd Naval District that an internment camp for German prisoners of war was to be established at Vardøhus.\nFour days later, on 24 April, the 1,382 ton steamer \"Nova\" arrived in port with 155 German POWs. Most of the German prisoners were crew members from the Kriegsmarine destroyer \"Erich Koellner\", sunk at Djupvik on the southern side of the Ofotfjord during the Battles of Narvik. The prisoners included the destroyer's commander, \"Fregattenkapitän\" Alfred Schulze-Hinrichs. The prisoners were housed under guard at the Quarantine Detention building. The POW camp at Vardøhus was closed down after a central POW camp for German detainees was established at Skorpa in Troms county and the 155 prisoners shipped to Skorpa on \"Nova\" on 13 May. \"Nova\" was escorted southwards by the patrol boat \"Ingrid\" – a captured German trawler operated by the Royal Norwegian Navy. The prisoners were released from Skorpa on 12 June 1940, after the mainland Norwegian capitulation.\n\nOther military activities at the fortress included the establishment of a 12-bed field hospital and a radio station. From 23 May the fortress came under the command of the newly established East Finnmark Naval District responsible for all RNoN units in eastern Finnmark.\n\nThe fortress' sole action with the German invasion forces came on 4 June 1940. Since early May German aircraft had overflown the area without incident, but on 4 June a single Luftwaffe bomber made an attack. The bomber missed its intended target, the radio station, but damaged the church and the commandant's quarters. After expending its bomb load, the bomber flew low and strafed the area, riddling the radio hut and other buildings with bullets. In response to the attack, Corporal Olav Børve returned fire using the 65 mm Hotchkiss gun with case-shot, firing 13 rounds. After a while, the fortress' machine guns also fired back at the aircraft. With at least one of the case-shot rounds damaging the German bomber's hull it limped away from the area with a wounded navigator.\n\nFollowing the attack, work began on the construction of a new anti-aircraft position on the nearby Kirkeberget hill. The position was completed, but no armaments were installed before the cease-fire went into effect.\n\nOn 8 June Lieutenant Bjerkelund was informed that the fighting in Norway was coming to a close and given the opportunity to evacuate to the United Kingdom. Seizing the opportunity, Bjerkelund left for Rosyth that same day on the patrol boat \"Nordhav II\". Bjerkelund was replaced as commander by coastal artillery lieutenant H. Johannesen later in the day. Of the ten officers and NCOs and 214 men at the fortress all but 12 of the men were demobilized on 9 June. The officers, NCOs and the dozen privates were to continue to serve until the arrival of German occupation forces.\n\nWith the first Germans arriving only on 17 July, Vardøhus became the last armed unit under a Norwegian flag to lay down their arms during the Norwegian Campaign. This occurred on 20 July, when German soldiers took down the Norwegian flag. Between 20 and 25 July no flag flew over Vardøhus, as the Germans had ordered the Norwegian soldiers not raise the flag again.\n\nHowever, since the Norwegian interpreted the order as only to not raise the State flag, they instead raised the Civil ensign on 25 July. From that day until 7 November the Norwegian flag flew at least part of every day, five times being removed by German soldiers who raised their own, which was replaced when they left. Each time the Nazi flag was burnt.\n\nDuring this time Captain Rynning was the fortress commander and served as a symbol of Norwegian sovereignty and as a buffer between German military authorities and the Norwegian military and civilian authorities. This, and \"the flag war\", continued until Rynning was arrested on the order of Reichskommissar Josef Terboven on 7 November. Rynning spent the next two years as a political prisoner at Grini and Møllergata 19 in Norway. In December 1942 Rynning was given prisoner of war status and deported to camps in Germany and occupied Poland for the rest of the war, returning on 7 June 1945.\n\nDuring the occupation the Germans improved the fortifications in the Vardø area, among other things building two coastal artillery batteries. Vardøhus was utilised by the occupiers as a barracks for the crews manning the modern German-built fortifications. In 1944, as the Germans retreated from Finland through Finnmark before the advancing Russian armies, General Lothar Rendulic ordered a scorched earth policy. Vardø was burned, with only a few houses remaining. Even though the German coastal artillery batteries were demolished before the Germans left, Vardøhus was left intact, although in a miserable state of disrepair.\n\nDuring the immediate post-war period, from 1945 to 1947, the fortress was demilitarised and used as a prison for people convicted of treason in the post-war legal purge. In 1947, Vardøhus was returned to fortress status manned by a commander and a few privates.\n\nThe command of the fort is now the responsibility of the Royal Norwegian Navy, with a commander and four soldiers stationed there. Today the fort has few practical military purposes and serves primarily as a salute fortress, firing on Norwegian Constitution Day (17 May), dissolution of the Union with Sweden Day (7 June) and on all royal birthdays.\n\nThe fortress is unique for the fact that, on the winter day that the sun can again be seen from the fortress walls after the period of continuous darkness, the fortress guns fire a two-round salute. The gunshots announce to the school pupils of Vardø that they have the rest of the day off in celebration of the return of the sun.\n\nAs the Fortress has mainly the same appearance today as in 1738 it serves as a piece of cultural and military history. The fortress is open to the public and houses a museum.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1926796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926796", "title": "Speakable items", "text": "Speakable items\n\nSpeakable items is part of the speech recognition feature in the classic Mac OS and macOS operating systems. It allows the user to control their computer with natural speech, without having to train the computer beforehand. The commands must be present in the Speakable items folder though but can be created with something as simple as a shortcut, AppleScript, keyboard command, or Automator workflows.\n\nSpeakable items was first introduced as part of Apple's speech recognition software PlainTalk in 1993. Originally available only on Quadra AV models, it was later integrated with the System 7.1.2 release of the Macintosh system software.\n\nWith the release of Mac OS X v10.4 it was featured as #12 on their list of features. In OS X Mountain Lion, Speakable Items has been relocated to the Accessibility panel in System Preferences.\n\nMac OS X v10.4 added Automator workflows which can also be used as Speakable items.\n\nIf a workflow is saved as an application and put in the Speakable items folder it becomes available to the speech recognition software. The words the computer will recognize to execute the command will be the name of the saved Automator application. Some words might have to be misspelt for the computer to know the proper pronunciation. (For example, the computer best recognizes \"Les Misérables\" as \"Lay Mizzer Ob\").\n\nBecause Automator is made to comply with AppleScript applications only, most third party or non AppleScript applications, such as Limewire or Final Cut Studio apps will not work with speakable items, unless you configure commands only with \"define a keyboard command\": in which you'll just select \"this application only\" after making a keyboard command.\n\nWhile Speakable Items is useful, as well as innovative, recognition gets hard and distorted some times.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1926809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926809", "title": "Leszek Samborski", "text": "Leszek Samborski\n\nLeszek Samborski (born 19 May 1955 in Dębica) - is a Polish politician, formerly a member of Real Politics Union and now Civic Platform and Sejm deputy (June 2004 - 2005).\n"}
{"id": "1926811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926811", "title": "Whitgift Foundation", "text": "Whitgift Foundation\n\nThe Whitgift Foundation is a charity based in Croydon, South London, England. The purpose of the charity is to provide education for the young and care for the elderly.\n\nThe main activities of the charity are the operation of three independent schools, providing sheltered accommodation and nursing care through three care homes and running the Carer's Information Service. In addition, the charity provides bursaries and scholarships in excess of £5million a year.\n\nThe foundation is governed by a Court of Governors, including the Bishop of Croydon; the Vicar of Croydon; and nominees of the Archbishop of Canterbury and Croydon Council.\n\nThe Whitgift Foundation was founded in 1596 by the Archbishop of Canterbury, John Whitgift. His aims were to provide care for the elderly and education for the young.\n\nOriginally three separate buildings were built, The Hospital of Holy Trinity (now known as The Almshouses), The School House and Schoolmaster’s House. The latter two were demolished in 1897, leaving the Almshouses as the only remaining original building. The Whitgift Centre, a large shopping mall, now stands where the later Victorian school and surrounding buildings and sports fields were. These buildings were occupied in turn by Whitgift School, prior to its move to south Croydon in 1931, and then by Trinity School, prior to its move to Shirley Park.\n\nThe Whitgift Foundation runs three independent day schools:\n\n\nJohn Whitgift Academy in Grimsby is named after John Whitgift, who was born in the town, but is not part of the Whitgift Foundation.\n\n"}
{"id": "1926815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926815", "title": "Princeton High School (Ohio)", "text": "Princeton High School (Ohio)\n\nPrinceton High School is a public, co-educational high school in Sharonville, Ohio, United States. The school is a part of the Princeton City School District.\n\nPrinceton High School offers grades nine through twelve, educating students from the Cincinnati metropolitan area communities of Evendale, Glendale, Lincoln Heights, Springdale, Sharonville, Woodlawn, Heritage Hill and portions of Blue Ash, Deerfield Township, West Chester Township, and Springfield Township since its establishment in 1955.\nPrinceton High School is near the intersection of interstates 75 and 275 at 100 Viking Way. \n\nThe school offers advanced placement and International Baccalaureate courses, as well as technology, music and athletic programs. Princeton High School is accredited by the North Central Association.\n\nPrinceton High School hosts one of only 22 International Baccalaureate Diploma Programs available in Ohio. There are over 125 students who have graduated with a full International Baccalaureate (IB).\n\nPrinceton High School was established in 1955 and graduated its first class in 1959. In 1955, the school districts of Woodlawn, Glendale, Springdale, Crescentville, Sharonville, Runyan, Stewart and Evendale consolidated to form the Princeton City School District. The name was taken from the prevalent PR phone prefix used in the area and from Princeton Pike. Princeton High School was built on its current site in 1957-58.\n\nIn 1970, the Ohio State Board of Education merged the predominantly white Princeton High School and the predominantly black Lincoln Heights High School, bringing Princeton City School District to its current boundaries. In 2010, plans were introduced to build a campus that would house both Princeton High School and the Princeton Community Middle School. The New Campus opened in 2014.\n\nAs of the 2018-19 school year, district-wide enrollment was 6,264 students.\n\nPrinceton offers a variety of extracurricular activities, including academic challenge team, baseball, basketball, bowling, cheerleading, chess, cross country, debate, diving, American football, golf, soccer, swimming, tennis, track and field, volleyball, water polo and wrestling.\n\nWith regard to competitive activities, Princeton High School was a founding member of the Greater Miami Conference and its students have won numerous team titles, including:\n\n\nPrinceton High School encourages community involvement by both staff and students. In 2000, Princeton High School began involvement in the Leukemia and Lymphoma Society’s Pennies for Patients campaign – renamed Pasta for Pennies in certain markets in which the Olive Garden restaurant provides sponsorship. Princeton High School was again the top fund-raising school in the nation in 2008, when they raised over $46,000 during the three-week campaign.\n\nPrinceton High School staff and students are also active in other charitable endeavors, hosting an annual Relay For Life since 2003. This event has raised as much as $38,000 from one overnight Relay event. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1926818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926818", "title": "William H. Cade", "text": "William H. Cade\n\nDr. William H. \"Bill\" Cade is a biologist and a former president of the University of Lethbridge. He researches the role of acoustic signals in field cricket mating behaviour.\n\nCade completed his BA (1968), MA (1972) and PhD (1976) in Zoology at the University of Texas at Austin. While an undergraduate at Texas, Cade became a member of the Tau chapter of the Kappa Sigma fraternity. For his master's degree he worked with Professor Osmond Breland on unusual aspects of insect sperm cell. Cade's doctoral work was on the evolution of mating behavior in insects and he studied with Professor Daniel Otte.\n\nCade has done research in evolution of animal behavior, insect reproductive behavior, acoustic signals in cricket, cockroach mating behavior, and parasite-prey coevolution.\n\nIn 1975, together with his wife, Elsa Salazar Cade, Cade discovered the parasitic fly \"Ormia ochracea\" is attracted to the song of male crickets. Only female flies are attracted to the song, and they deposit living larvae on and in the vicinity of calling males. The larvae burrow into and eat the cricket who dies in about 7 days when the flies pupate. This was the first example of a natural enemy that locates its host or prey using the mating signal of the host/prey.\n\nIn late 2006, research by Marlene Zuk revealed the relationship between the cricket and the fly as one of the fastest examples of evolution ever recorded. Pressure from the \"O. ochracea\" has caused the crickets to evolve a silent male with wings that look like female wings.\n\nCade has a long collaboration with Dan Otte collecting and studying the crickets and grasshoppers of Africa.\n\nWhile Dean of Science at Brock, Bill Cade helped establish the Cool Climate Oenology and Viticulture Institute.\n\n"}
{"id": "1926819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926819", "title": "Willie Wood", "text": "Willie Wood\n\nWilliam Vernell Wood Sr. (December 23, 1936February 3, 2020) was an American professional football player and coach. He played as a safety with the Green Bay Packers in the National Football League (NFL). Wood was an eight-time Pro Bowler and a nine-time All-Pro. In 1989, Wood was elected to the Pro Football Hall of Fame.\n\nWood played college football for the USC Trojans, becoming the first African-American quarterback to play in what is now the Pac-12 Conference. Undrafted out of USC, he was granted a try-out with Green Bay. Wood changed his position to safety in his rookie year, and played for the Packers from 1960 to 1971, winning five NFL championships. He later coached in the NFL, World Football League (WFL), and Canadian Football League (CFL).\n\nAfter graduating from Armstrong High School in Washington, D.C. in 1956, Wood went west and played college football in southern California, playing his freshman year at Coalinga Junior College, where he was a junior college All-American. \n\nHe transferred to the University of Southern California in Los Angeles in 1957 and played for the Trojans under first-year head coach Don Clark. While there he was the first African American quarterback in the history of the Pacific Coast Conference and its successor AAWU, now the Pac-12 Conference. Wood also played safety.\n\nAs a junior in 1958, he was sidelined with an injured shoulder, and as a senior in 1959, he separated his right shoulder and missed several games.\n\nWood was not selected in the 1960 NFL draft, and wrote a letter to head coach Vince Lombardi to request a tryout; the Packers signed him as a rookie free agent in 1960. After a few days with the quarterbacks, he requested a switch to defense and was recast as a free safety, and was a starter in the season. He started until his retirement in 1971.\n\nWood won All-NFL honors nine times in a nine-year stretch from 1962 through the 1971 season, participated in the Pro Bowl eight times, and played in six NFL championship games, winning all except the first in 1960.\n\nWood was the starting free safety for the Packers in Super Bowl I against the Kansas City Chiefs and Super Bowl II against the Oakland Raiders. In Super Bowl I, he recorded a key interception that helped the Packers put the game away in the second half. In Super Bowl II, he returned five punts for 35 yards, including a 31-yard return that stood as the record for longest punt return in a Super Bowl until Darrell Green's 34-yard return in Super Bowl XVIII. He led the NFL in interceptions and punt return yards in 1962.\n\nWood finished his 12 NFL seasons with 48 interceptions, which he returned for 699 yards and two touchdowns. He also gained 1,391 yards and scored two touchdowns on 187 punt returns. He holds the record for the most consecutive starts by a safety in NFL history.\n\nWood retired as a player after the 1971 season; he was inducted into the Pro Football Hall of Fame in 1989, and the Packers Hall of Fame in 1977.\n\nAfter retiring as a player in January 1972, Wood became the defensive backs coach for the San Diego Chargers. In 1975, he was the defensive coordinator of the Philadelphia Bell of the WFL and became the first African-American head coach in professional football of the modern era in late July, days before the first game of the season. The Bell's season lasted only 11 games when the league folded in October.\n\nWood was later an assistant coach for the Toronto Argonauts in the CFL under Forrest Gregg, a Packer teammate. When Gregg left after the 1979 season for the Cincinnati Bengals in the NFL, Wood became the first black head coach in the CFL, but after an 0–10 start in 1981, he was fired.\n\nHis son, Willie Wood Jr., played for (1992–1993) and later coached the Indiana Firebirds in the Arena Football League, after coaching at Woodrow Wilson High School in Washington, D.C. Wood Jr. also served as the wide receiver/defensive backs coach and special teams coordinator for the Cleveland Gladiators of the Arena Football League.\n\nWood later lived in Washington, D.C. and underwent replacement knee surgery. In his later years, he had dementia. Wood died of natural causes on February 3, 2020 at an assisted living facility in Washington, D.C. at the age of 83.\n\nIn March 2012, a block of N Street NW in D.C. () was named \"Willie Wood Way.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1926821", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926821", "title": "Jock tax", "text": "Jock tax\n\nIn the United States, the jock tax is the colloquially named income tax levied against visitors to a city or state who earn money in that jurisdiction. Since a state cannot afford to track the many individuals who do business on an itinerant basis, the ones targeted are usually very wealthy and high profile, namely professional athletes. Not only are the working schedules of famous sports players public, so are their salaries. The state can compute and collect the amount with very little investment of time and effort.\n\nWhile \"jock taxes\" date to the 1960s, states started aggressively taxing the income of non-resident athletes in 1991, when California imposed the tax on the earnings of Chicago Bulls players who traveled to Los Angeles to play the Lakers in that year's NBA Finals. Illinois soon retaliated, imposing its own \"jock tax\" on out-of-state players—although Illinois' tax is only imposed on athletes from jurisdictions that impose jock taxes on Illinois-based players. Other states followed suit; by 2014, the only U.S. jurisdictions with major professional teams without a jock tax were Florida, Texas, Washington state, and Washington, D.C. (the three states do not impose personal income taxes, while the U.S. Congress specifically prohibits the District of Columbia from imposing its income tax on non-residents who work there).\n\nStates are not the only U.S. jurisdictions that impose jock taxes—several cities impose their own jock taxes on top of those levied by their states. For example, since 2005, Pittsburgh has assessed what it calls the Non-Resident Sports Facility Usage Fee—a 3% tax on income derived from an individual's participation in any paid-admission event in a publicly funded venue, as long as the individual is not a city resident.\n\nThe following is an in-depth analysis of modern-day examples and criticisms of the jock tax.\n\nAfter the 2000 Major League Baseball season, Alex Rodriguez signed what was then the largest contract in American sports history, a ten-year contract worth $252 million, with the Texas Rangers. The tax collecting authorities of other states were notified alongside the public, and would separately demand that Rodriguez's employer withhold the tax due from his salary and remit it to each of them. Even though the state of Texas did not have an income tax, he still had to pay the various state income taxes applied to each away game in each location except for Florida, Illinois, Washington state, and Washington, D.C. (as an American League player, he would visit the three states every season). It is estimated that Rodriguez paid $520,000 a year for state income taxes outside his own state. \n\nTennessee, which has only a limited income tax that excludes wages and salaries, began imposing its own special form of jock tax in July 2009, which it called a \"privilege tax\", and later repealed in April 2014. The tax was unique in several respects. First, it was a flat-rate tax of $2,500 per game, imposed on all players who were on a team's roster for a game in the state, including Tennessee residents. However, the tax applied to a maximum of three games per calendar year. In another quirk, NFL players were exempt—when first imposed, the tax only applied to NBA and NHL players. In addition, the tax did not go to the state treasury. Instead, taxes imposed on NHL players went to the operators of Bridgestone Arena in Nashville, home to the Nashville Predators, while taxes imposed on NBA players went to the operators of FedExForum in Memphis, home to the Memphis Grizzlies (both teams are Tennessee's only representatives in their respective leagues). Finally, because the tax was categorized as a fee, it could not be claimed as a deduction on other states' tax returns.\n\nBecause of the quirks of the tax, some players on visiting teams were required to pay more in privilege taxes than they earned from games played in the state. Another individual who was disproportionately affected by the tax was Chris Johnson, who earned $54,000 for eight games with the Grizzlies under two 10-day contracts in , but was still subject to the full $7,500 privilege tax—the same amount collected from Grizzlies players who were on the team for an entire calendar year. The collective bargaining agreement that ended the 2012–13 NHL lockout called for team owners to pay their players' privilege taxes.\n\nThe Tennessee privilege tax was repealed in April 2014; the lead sponsor of the repeal bill noted that because the tax was imposed on NBA and NHL players but not on NFL players, it was constitutionally suspect. It stopped being collected from NHL players starting with the , while the tax continued to be collected from NBA players through the 2015–16 season.\n\nIn 2015, Andrew McCutchen, then an outfielder with the Pittsburgh Pirates, inadvertently left the first page of his direct deposit pay stub for May 1–15 in the visitors' clubhouse at Wrigley Field after the Pirates finished a three-game series against the Chicago Cubs. The stub was found by a visitor during a stadium tour and posted online. (McCutchen was not financially harmed by the exposure because the posted stub contained no bank routing numbers.) It revealed that he had state taxes for Illinois and Missouri, as well as city taxes for Philadelphia and St. Louis, withheld. In addition, Arizona, Ohio, and the city of Cincinnati were listed as potential tax recipients, but no money was withheld for those jurisdictions because the Pirates did not play in those places during the stated period. The stub also indicated that other taxable locales were \"continued on next stub\", which was not found by the visitor and thus never posted.\n\nA 2018 \"Sports Illustrated\" story on NFL players' tax situations began by examining the unusual 2017 tax situation of Brock Osweiler. In 2016, Osweiler played for the Houston Texans in the income tax-free state of Texas, giving him what writer Andrew Feldman called a \"tax filing [that] was about as simple as you can get for an NFL player\", paying other states only for the days he actually spent in those jurisdictions. At the time, he maintained his residency in Texas. During the 2017 offseason, he was traded to the Cleveland Browns, but was cut after the team's last preseason game and picked up by the Denver Broncos, with the Browns paying almost all of his $16 million contract for that season while he played in seven games for the Broncos. Feldman added, \"So what did his tax bill come to? The experts say ... \"they’re not sure.\" (emphasis in original)\n\nIn 2017, Osweiler was indisputably liable for about $150,000 in Ohio state income tax for the time he spent in the Browns' preseason training camp at Baldwin Wallace University in Berea. However, even though the Browns paid almost all of his season salary, an attorney with the Ohio Department of Taxation told \"SI\" that even though almost all of his income that year came from an Ohio source, the state could not tax him on income that was earned while he was not present in the state (assuming that Osweiler did not become an Ohio resident). According to several tax accountants consulted by \"SI\", Osweiler was liable for $600,000 in Colorado income tax based on his time spent in that state, plus another $150,000 to the other states in which he played in 2017. One accountant suggested a different possibility:One CPA suggests that Ohio and Colorado could \"both\" claim they deserve that $600,000, forcing an appeal and possible federal court case. The result could depend on whether the Browns paid Osweiler a lump sum before he left Ohio, or if he continued getting weekly payouts.(emphasis in original)\n\nIn 2003, the Tax Foundation conducted a study on the jock tax. It concluded that the tax is:\nAccording to the foundation, the jock tax \"forces traveling professionals to file potentially dozens of state and local income tax returns annually.\" The foundation argues that the jock tax is poor tax policy.\n\nAn analyst for the foundation pointed out in 2014 that because taxes are imposed on everyone who travels with a professional sports team, many individuals subject to the tax are not the stereotypical highly-paid athletes:\n\nMany trainers and scouts do not earn much more than the national median income, and players earning the league minimum in some leagues, such as Major League Soccer, earn only around $35,000 per year. This can lead to a substantial tax complexity burden because many team members have to file income taxes in around 15-20 states each year. ... the tax hits many people who may not be able to easily absorb the substantial compliance costs associated with the tax.\n\nThe aforementioned 2018 \"SI\" story further illustrated this complexity. Because the Dallas Cowboys split their 2017 training camp between Oxnard, California and Texas, wide receiver Dez Bryant was subject to $10,000 in state income tax for every day the team spent in Oxnard. In the same year, the Miami Dolphins trained in Oxnard in the days following Hurricane Irma, subjecting the team's on-site personnel to California's income tax for that period. Ndamukong Suh was subject to more than $50,000 in California income tax during this time. One unnamed 2016 All-Pro had federal, state, and city tax filings for that year that totaled 400 pages, and during the team's bye week went on a vacation to income tax-free Florida that saved him $20,000 in income taxes.\n\nOne major sports league was able to partly address this issue. MLB successfully lobbied Arizona in the 1990s for an exemption from non-resident state income taxes during spring training. Since that time, the only players who are subject to Arizona income tax during spring training are those who make their permanent residence in the state. Similarly, during the season, the only players who are subject to non-resident Arizona income tax are those present for Arizona Diamondbacks games.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1926828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926828", "title": "Cnemidaria", "text": "Cnemidaria\n\nCnemidaria is a genus of small tree ferns in the family Cyatheaceae. They are subaborescent or marginally aborescent, growing as tall as 3.5 m with a trunk (basically a single large stem) diameter of 7 cm.\n\nThe fronds of the \"Cnemidaria\" are typically 1-3.5 m long and pinnate. The rachis is generally smooth, but in some species it is slightly spiny. Presence or absence of spines has been used as a diagnostic factor to distinguish between species. Young fronds are frequently covered with scales or spines. They uncurl by circinate vernation. The sori are circular and present on the underside of the pinnules away from the margins (edges). Chromosome number is \"n\"=69.\n\nThe species of \"Cnemidaria\" are distributed in the New World tropics, from Puerto Rico and the Caribbean to Central America and south to the northern Andes and parts of southeastern Brazil. They prefer wet mountain areas and cloud forests in deep shade and in forest margins, clearings and disturbed sites. They are aggressive colonizers, and are quite fire resistant.\n\nAround twenty five species are recognised in the genus \"Cnemidaria\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1926829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926829", "title": "Abutilon menziesii", "text": "Abutilon menziesii\n\nAbutilon menziesii, known as Kooloaula in Hawaiian, is an endangered species of flowering shrub in the mallow family, Malvaceae, that is endemic to Hawaii. It is a sprawling shrub that can reach up to 10 feet in height. The leaves, which range from an inch in width to about five inches, vary in their shapes. They have a velvety feel to them. The small hibiscus-shaped flowers generally hang downward. Though charming up close, the flowers can be hidden by the much larger leaves and not often visible at a distance. Although the Hawaiian name ʻula refers to the more commonly seen red color, koʻoloa ʻula flowers are known in a range of colors: pink, pink and white, pale red, maroon, deep purplish-red (wine), salmon, and blond or butter. The center or staminal column is yellowish.\n\nIt inhabits dry forests on the islands of Lānai, Maui, Oahu and Hawaii. It is classified as critically endangered by the IUCN Red List; only about 450–500 plants remain in fewer than ten naturally occurring populations throughout the islands. The rarity of this plant can be attributed to the alteration of its habitat for agricultural and urban development, overgrazing by livestock and feral animals, and competition from invasive weeds. A conservation plan is being implemented by federal and state agencies to protect remaining habitat, establish new populations, and conserve genetic material in seed banks and botanical gardens.\n\n"}
{"id": "1926830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926830", "title": "Kraus-type radio telescope", "text": "Kraus-type radio telescope\n\nThe Kraus-type radio telescope design was created by Dr. John D. Kraus (1910–2004). \n\nKraus-type telescopes are transit instruments, where the flat primary mirror reflects radio waves towards the spherical secondary mirror, which focuses it towards a mobile focal carriage. The primary tilts North-South to select any object near the meridian, while the focal carriage moves East-West along railroad ties to track objects near transit. \n\nThe Nançay radio telescope in France and the former Big Ear in Ohio are Kraus-type telescopes, and the southern section of the RATAN-600 ring in Russia can operate as a Kraus-type telescope.\n"}
{"id": "1926840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926840", "title": "Bulletin on Narcotics", "text": "Bulletin on Narcotics\n\nThe Bulletin on Narcotics is a publication of the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime. First published in 1981, the bulletin provides a great deal of insight into the legislative history of the drug control treaties of the 20th century, including the earlier treaties as well as:\n\n"}
{"id": "1926849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926849", "title": "David Elazar", "text": "David Elazar\n\nDavid \"Dado\" Elazar (; 27 August 1925 – 15 April 1976) was the ninth Chief of Staff of the Israel Defense Forces (IDF), serving in that capacity from 1972 to 1974. He was forced to resign in the aftermath of the Yom Kippur War.\n\nDavid (Dado) Elazar was born in Sarajevo, and of Sephardic heritage. He emigrated to Palestine in 1940 with the Youth Aliyah program and settled on kibbutz Ein Shemer. He soon joined the Palmach and fought in many important battles during Israel's War of Independence, including the Battle of San Simon Monastery in Jerusalem. As a soldier, he advanced through the ranks, eventually serving as commander of the famous HaPortzim Battalion of the Harel Brigade.\n\nElazar remained in the army after the war, transferring to the armored corps following the 1956 Sinai campaign. He served as deputy to the commander of the corps, Haim Bar Lev, taking over as commander of the armored corps in 1961. He remained in this position until 1964, when he was appointed Chief of the Northern Command, a position he held until 1969. During the Six-Day War of 1967 he was a crucial advocate for the occupation of the strategic Golan Heights, which was then a part of Syria, and he oversaw the capture in just two days.\n\nAfter the war, Elazar served as the chief operations officer on the general staff. On 1 January 1972, he was appointed Chief of Staff.\n\nThe first months of his tenure were spent combating terrorism. On 30 May, the Japanese Red Army killed 25 civilians and wounded 71 more at an attack on Lod Airport, Israel's leading transportation hub (see: Lod Airport Massacre). On 5 September of that year, another group attacked Israeli athletes at the 1972 Summer Olympics in Munich. The attack became known as the Munich Massacre. In response to these attacks, Elazar ordered what was, until then, the largest strike against Palestinian bases in Syria and Lebanon. Three Syrian jets were downed, and dozens of fedayeen were killed in a heavy artillery barrage. In Operation Spring of Youth, which took place on the night of 9–10 April 1973, dozens more Palestinians, including several key Palestinian leaders, were assassinated in Beirut by the IDF.\n\nOne of the decisions made by Elazar during his tenure was the order to down a Libyan passenger jet that strayed into Israeli airspace and was suspected to be on a terrorist mission when it did not respond. The plane was shot down by the Israeli Air Force over the Sinai Peninsula under direct orders from Elazar, killing over 100 civilians. Only later was it discovered that this was a civilian aircraft that had made a navigational error.\n\nOn 27 May 1973, the IDF announced a state of emergency and reserve troops were called up in response to a movement of Egyptian troops. The state of emergency was cancelled when it became clear that this was only an exercise. This event had a major impact on the General Staff, as it led them to believe that the Egyptian forces were not preparing for war, later that year, on Yom Kippur. After the war however, it became apparent that these frequent maneuvers carried out by the Egyptians were part of an elaborate ruse meant to induce complacency in the Israelis regarding the true intentions of Egyptian troop movements at the time the actual attack took place.\n\nOn 13 September, Israel shot down thirteen Syrian fighter jets, which had attempted to down Israeli aircraft.\n\nIn 1957, Israel was forced, under American pressure, to withdraw from the Sinai which it had occupied since attacking Egypt the previous year. Closing the Tiran strait to Israeli ships by Egyptian President Gamal Abdel Nasser in 1967 was one of the major causes for the 1967 war, during which Israel re-occupied the Sinai peninsula.\n\nOn 1 October 1973, the armies of Egypt and Syria were placed on alert. Due to an erroneous intelligence assessment and poor decisions by the Israeli military, the IDF responded with only limited measures, few reserve units were called up, and it was determined that war was \"unlikely.\" In the early hours of 6 October (on Yom Kippur, the holiest of the Jewish holidays), Elazar finally became convinced that war would indeed break out that same day, even though the Chief of Military Intelligence Major General Eli Zeira and the Minister of Defense Moshe Dayan still believed that this was highly unlikely. Dayan's conviction had two major consequences:\n\nAt 2:00 p.m. on Yom Kippur, the armies of Egypt and Syria launched a coordinated attack against Israel. In many ways, this came as a surprise to the IDF and its command.\n\nAfter a series of fierce battles to block the invading armies, a failed counter-offensive in the Sinai, and heavy losses to Israel's airforce and ground troops alike, the incursion was finally halted. On 11 October, fighting in the north was pushed back across the Syrian frontier, and on 16 October, Israeli troops crossed the Suez Canal under the command of General Ariel Sharon.\n\nIn the early days of the fighting, Elazar was one of very few Israeli commanders who managed to keep his cool and even maintain an optimistic view of where events were heading. This was in especially sharp contrast with the political leadership, most notably Moshe Dayan, who spoke of the \"destruction of the Third Jewish Commonwealth.\" At the same time, the war highlighted sharp personal differences among the top military brass, particularly along the Southern Front—some of these differences have yet to be resolved. At one point in the fighting, Elazar was forced to replace the Chief of the Southern Command, Major General Shmuel Gonen (known as \"Gorodish\") with the former Chief of General Staff Haim Bar-Lev. He also enlisted the help of generals Rehavam Zeevi and Aharon Yariv, both of whom had recently retired from the IDF, as his special advisers.\n\nBy the end of the war, the IDF had penetrated deep into Syrian territory. Mount Hermon, which had been taken from Israel at the start of the war, returned to Israeli control. On the Southern Front, the Egyptian Third Army was surrounded in the Sinai, and Israeli troops had occupied the southern sector of the west bank of the Suez Canal fighting with the unconventional tactics of General Ariel Sharon. Nevertheless, despite these military achievements, Israel paid dearly in casualties, and the Egyptians still held some territory east of the canal, and none of the major cities were captured, although Suez was under siege.\n\nThe high casualty rate and the fact that Israel was caught unprepared, in terms of both intelligence and operations, led to a wave of public protests throughout the country.\n\nOn 21 November, as soon as the war ended, the Agranat Commission was set up to investigate why the IDF was so poorly prepared for the war. The commission met for several months. It held 140 sessions and listened to dozens of witnesses before releasing its interim report on 1 April 1974, calling for Elazar to be removed as Chief of Staff. The report stated that \"Elazar bears personal responsibility for the assessment of the situation and the preparedness of the IDF\" and recommended that he and the chief of military intelligence Eli Zeira be removed from their posts.\n\nElazar immediately submitted his resignation to the government, claiming that he had been mistreated, especially since the report suggested no sanctions against the country's political leadership. He also complained that his actions during the war were never considered. In his resignation letter, Elazar wrote:\n\nOn 15 April 1976, he died of a heart attack while swimming. He is buried on Mount Herzl, Jerusalem.\n\nDavid Elazar, popularly known as \"Dado,\" remains a controversial figure in Israel to this very day. The conclusion made by the Agranat Commission that he was personally responsible for the failure to prepare for war was not fully accepted by the public. The consensus today holds that Elazar was an extremely capable war leader who kept his cool in a crisis situation and made the correct strategic decisions. \nIsraeli General Aviezer Ya'ari, head of the IDF's research department credits two specific decisions made by Elazar relatively early in the fighting as crucial to achieving Israel's eventual tactical victory in the war despite the significant setbacks it suffered initially. One was Elazar's decision to shift divisional reserve forces that were being held opposite the Jordanian border in the event Jordan was to enter the war to the Golan Heights sector instead. These forces then proved instrumental in first halting the Syrians' rapid advance, then turning the tide of battle against them. The second was his decision, despite vigorous objections from his field generals, to postpone further counter-attacks in the Sinai until the Egyptians, which had dug in defensive positions alongside the east bank of the Suez Canal, first started an offensive push eastwards from those positions. This led to the Battle of the Sinai, which was fought on terms better suited to Israeli tactics and which they decisively won, thus weakening overall Egyptian resistance and facilitating a hard-fought but eventually successful counteroffensive that allowed the IDF to cross the Suez Canal and trap most of the Egyptian Third Army on its eastern bank by the end of the war.\n\n"}
{"id": "1926850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926850", "title": "Mount Tabor High School", "text": "Mount Tabor High School\n\nMount Tabor High School is a high school located in Winston-Salem, North Carolina. It is part of the WS/FCS School System. As of 2011, Mount Tabor has a student population of over 1,600 9th through 12th grade students and is a North Carolina 3A school. Mount Tabor was previously part of the Metro 4-A Conference, but is currently a member of the Piedmont Triad Conference. In 2012, Mount Tabor was ranked #818 out of the top 1,000 United States public high schools. Mount Tabor is known rivals with nearby Reynolds High School, West Forsyth High School, and, more recently, Reagan High School.\n\nDuring the 2010-2011 school year, there were 1,622 students enrolled at Mount Tabor. The racial makeup of the students was 48.8% White, 36.94% Black, 6.66% Hispanic, 4.5% Multiracial, 2.92% Asian/Pacific Islander, and 0.18% American Indian. 23% of students were eligible for free or reduced lunch.\n\nMount Tabor High School was opened as a 7-12 grade school at the beginning of the 1966-1967 school year. In 1971, the school district reorganized schools and changed Mount Tabor to a junior high school for grades 9 and 10. In 1984, it was changed again to a 9-12 grade high school. A new building containing a new auditorium, new guidance and administration offices, and several classrooms and science labs, was opened in 2004.\n\nDuring the 2010-2011 school year, the average daily attendance rate was 93%. 79.4% of students showed proficiency on the state end-of-course exams. 5% of students were enrolled in Advanced Placement courses, and 7% were enrolled in Career and Technical Education classes. The graduation rate was 86.0%. 98% of the teachers were fully licensed, 94% were highly qualified, 38% had advanced degrees, and 64% had been teaching for more than ten years. The average student-teacher ratio in required courses was about 23:1. Of the 84% of 12th grade students who had taken the SAT, the average composite score was 1070 out of 1600.\n\nThe school offers several Advanced Placement classes, which are listed below:\n\nStudents are offered many more AP classes, as well as vocational classes, at the Career Center.\n\nMount Tabor High School hosts many athletics programs each year, a full list of which includes football, baseball, lacrosse, basketball, soccer, cheerleading, softball, cross country, swimming, field hockey, tennis, volleyball, hockey, wrestling, golf, and indoor/outdoor track and field. Students with a grade point average of at least 2.0 and a current physical may try out for athletic teams. Its sports teams have won several state championships. The 2011 cross country team was ranked 2nd during the preseason for division 4A schools across the state. Mount Tabor was also Central Piedmont Conference champions in every fall sport during the 2007-2008 season, and the 2008-2009 Spartan basketball team won the NCHSAA 4A state championship for the first time in school history.\n\nMount Tabor High School offers a variety of student clubs. Some of the clubs available to students are listed below. Students can start their own club at any time, and not all student organizations (especially those with a political affiliation) are officially recognized by the school administration.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1926859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926859", "title": "Go Ahead Eagles", "text": "Go Ahead Eagles\n\nGo Ahead Eagles () are a Dutch football club from Deventer, playing in the Eerste Divisie. The club's home stadium is De Adelaarshorst. The club won the national championship in 1917, 1922, 1930 and 1933.\n\nThey have produced a number of notable players including Raimond van der Gouw, René Eijkelkamp, Marc Overmars, Paul Bosvelt, Jan Kromkamp, Victor Sikora, Bert van Marwijk and Demy de Zeeuw while providing Henk ten Cate and Leo Beenhakker with their first tastes of management.\n\nThe club was founded in 1902 as Be Quick by the Hollander brothers. The name was soon changed to Go Ahead at the request of the Dutch Football Association. The suffix \"Eagles\" was added in 1971, following a suggestion from then head coach Barry Hughes. The eagle is the charge in the coat of arms of the city of Deventer. \n\nGo Ahead Eagles were famously the only side to defeat Ajax in any competition during the 1971–72 season when they won 3–2 at De Adelaarshorst in the Eredivisie. They have participated in the UEFA Cup once, in the 1965–66 season, losing in the first round to Celtic.\n\nAfter almost two decades in the second division, Go Ahead won promotion to the 2013–14 Eredivisie at the end of the 2012–13 season, winning the promotion play-offs. The club remained in the top division for the 2014–15 season, finishing 13th. \n\nGo Ahead Eagles would compete in Europe in the 2015–16 UEFA Europa League due to the Netherlands' first place in UEFA Respect Fair Play ranking. National Fair Play winner Twente withdrew due to financial difficulties, making the place for Go Ahead Eagles. However, they also suffered relegation after losing 2–0 on aggregate to De Graafschap in the May 2015 promotion/relegation play-offs. In July 2015, they were beaten 2–5 on aggregate by Hungarian side Ferencváros in the first Europa League qualifying round with the home leg played in Emmen due to the Adelaarshorst being renovated, and the away leg without spectators because the Hungarians were serving a ban by UEFA. \n\nThe club bounced back to the Eredivisie on the first attempt in May 2016 after beating De Graafschap 5–2 on aggregate in the promotion/relegation play-offs, but were relegated again at the end of the 2016–17 season.\n\n\n\n\n\nBelow is a table with Go Ahead Eagles' domestic results since the introduction of professional football in 1956.\n\nGo Ahead Eagles' biggest rivals are PEC Zwolle. Both clubs are located at the river IJssel, hence the name IJssel-derby. In the early years, Go Ahead was the best club in the region but since the relegation to the Dutch First Division in 1987, Zwolle has won most derbies. Further teams who share a rivalry with Go Ahead Eagles include FC Twente, Vitesse Arnhem and De Graafschap.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1926861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926861", "title": "Class of 9/11", "text": "Class of 9/11\n\nThe \"Class of 9/11\" is a term coined by National Public Radio for American high school graduating classes of 2005. These students were freshmen when the September 11 attacks occurred in 2001, and have had to cope with the many aspects of the aftermath during teenage life and high school. The Class of 2002 can also be considered the Class of 9/11.\n\nThis term is now used mainly for the 2005 graduating class of West Point, which contained 911 students. According to the Associated Press report the graduating cadets were told they were \"a special group forged by historic events\".\n\nOn September 12, 2006, the first member of the class was killed. 2nd Lt. Emily Perez, a Medical Service Corps officer with the 204th Support Battalion, 2nd Brigade, 4th Infantry Division, was leading a platoon when a roadside bomb exploded, killing her. Perez, who had been the highest-ranking black and Hispanic woman in the Academy's history, was the first female West Point graduate to die in Iraq.\n"}
{"id": "1926863", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926863", "title": "7 for All Mankind", "text": "7 for All Mankind\n\n7 For All Mankind (often referred to simply as 7FAM) is an American denim brand founded by Michael Glasser, Peter Koral, and Jerome Dahan in 2000 and headquartered in Vernon, California. It was purchased by the VF Corporation in 2007 and sold to Delta Galil Industries in 2016.\n\n7 for All Mankind began by designing women's jeans. A men's jeans line was introduced in fall 2002, and its Children Denim Collection for boys and girls in fall 2005. 7 for All Mankind also produces other clothing items such as skirts, shorts, and denim jackets. The brand is sold in over 80 countries including Europe, Canada, and Japan.\n\nDahan and Glasser, denim designers who had worked in the apparel industry for years, created the company in response to what they saw as a void in the contemporary denim market. Focusing on female denim wearers, it has been stated that the company was successful because of the fit, fabrics, washes, attention to detail, and the logo on the product's back pockets. 7 For All Mankind's proximity to Los Angeles makes the brand popular with celebrities and urban young adults. Prince Harry has also been photographed in the jeans.\n7 For All Mankind jeans are characteristically tight-fitting and mid-rise.\n\nThe denim collection uses various pocket embroidery designs. The signature logo is found on their various styles, including bootcut and low-rise jeans. Their A-pocket jean consists of an \"A\" stitched on the pocket and sometimes incorporating Swarovski Crystals. The Dojo jean consists of a \"7\" on the pocket, the Kate features V-shaped embroidery. It is not always possible to determine the cut or fit of a 7 For All Mankind jean by the pocket design alone.\n\n"}
{"id": "1926880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926880", "title": "Nakanosakae Station", "text": "Nakanosakae Station\n\nNakanosakae Station is served by the Senseki Line. It is located 10.3 rail kilometers from the terminus of the Senseki Line at .\n\nNakanosakae Station has two opposed side platforms connected to the station building by a footbridge. The station has a \"Midori no Madoguchi\" staffed ticket office.\n\nNakanosakae Station opened on　April 1, 1981. The station was absorbed into the JR East network upon the privatization of JNR on April 1, 1987.\n\nIn fiscal 2016, the station was used by an average of 5,313 passengers daily (boarding passengers only).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1926887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926887", "title": "Britannia metal", "text": "Britannia metal\n\nBritannia metal (also called britannium or Britannia ware) is a specific type of pewter alloy, favoured for its silvery appearance and smooth surface. The composition by weight is typically about 92% tin, 6% antimony, and 2% copper.\n\nBritannia metal is usually spun rather than cast, and melts at 255 degrees Celsius.\n\nBritannia metal was first produced in 1769 or 1770. James Vickers created it after purchasing the formula from a dying friend. It was originally known as \"Vickers White Metal\" when made under contract by the Sheffield manufacturers Ebenezer Hancock and Richard Jessop. In 1776 James Vickers took over the manufacturing himself and remained as owner until his death in 1809, when the company passed to his son John and son-in-law Elijah West. In 1836 the company was sold to John Vickers's nephew Ebenezer Stacey (the son of Hannah Vickers and John Stacey).\n\nAfter the development of electroplating with silver in 1846, Britannia metal was widely used as the base metal for silver-plated household goods and cutlery. The abbreviation EPBM on such items denotes \"electroplated Britannia metal\". Britannia metal was generally used as a cheaper alternative to electroplated nickel silver (EPNS) which is more durable.\n\nUntil 2016, britannium was used to make the solid core of the Oscar statuettes. The 8½ lb (4 kg) statuettes were Britannia metal plated with gold. The awards have since changed to a bronze core.\n\nIn his essay \"A Nice Cup of Tea\", writer George Orwell asserts that \"britanniaware\" teapots \"produce inferior tea\" when compared to chinaware.\n\n"}
{"id": "1926897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926897", "title": "Lujo Bezeredi", "text": "Lujo Bezeredi\n\nLujo Bezeredi (Bezeredy) (1898 – April 20, 1979) was a Croatian-Hungarian sculptor and painter.\n\nHe was born in Nova, Hungary, to Hungarian-Slovak father and Croatian mother, but after the death of his parents he moved to Čakovec, Croatia, where he completed his schooling at the public school and teacher's training school. He later studied at the College of Education in Budapest and enrolled the Academy of Fine Arts in Zagreb in 1922.\n\nBetween 1936 and 1941 he lived in Belgrade. As a material for sculptures he mostly used terra cotta, with engobe being his favourite pottery technique along with less frequently used faience and glazing techniques. His work is characterized by social motifs from urban and rural life. In 1942 he returned to Čakovec, where he lived with his wife until his death.\n\nBezeredi donated his entire collection of 485 various works of art to the Međimurje County Museum in Čakovec. He is buried at the city cemetery in Čakovec.\n"}
{"id": "1926898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926898", "title": "Gabriel G. Nahas", "text": "Gabriel G. Nahas\n\nGabriel Georges Nahas (March 4, 1920 – June 28, 2012) was an anesthesiologist known for his advocacy against marijuana use and for the illegality of drugs. He worked at Walter Reed Medical Center Columbia University and later New York University.\n\nHis mother Gabrielle Wolff Nahas, was French, and his father Bishara Nahas (1887-1929), was a Lebanese agricultural engineer and merchant who emigrated to the United States and then gained recognition for his timely book on King Tut-ankh-amun. The Nahas family moved from Gabriel's birthplace of Alexandria, Egypt to southern France when he was a child. An active member of the French Resistance, he was awarded the Légion d'honneur by Charles de Gaulle, the croix de guerre with three palm leaves and a star, the Medal of Freedom from US President Harry S. Truman, Ellis Island Medal of Honor from US President Ronald Reagan, was a Fulbright scholar, member of the Order of the British Empire (OBE), officer of the order of Orange-NASSAU, Medal of Honor of the Statue of Liberty, and Ph.D. from the University of Minnesota where he was a Mayo Foundation Fellow. On \nJune 3, 1988 Nahas received an honorary doctorate from the Faculty of Medicine at Uppsala University, Sweden \nWhile at Walter Reed, his research on intra-operative acid base balance spurred a new protocol of patient management in the operating room. Nahas also argued against the use of cocaine for experimental purposes in human subjects.\n\nAfter moving to Columbia University, his work on addiction and the health risks of controlled substances brought him fame as well as considerable opprobrium. He died in Manhattan in 2012 of a respiratory infection.\n"}
{"id": "1926908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926908", "title": "Darby Bible", "text": "Darby Bible\n\nThe Darby Bible (DBY, formal title \"The Holy Scriptures: A New Translation from the Original Languages by J. N. Darby\") refers to the Bible as translated from Hebrew and Greek by John Nelson Darby.\n\nDarby published a translation of the New Testament in 1867, with revised editions in 1872 and 1884. After his death, some of his students produced an Old Testament translation based on Darby's French and German translations (see below). The complete Darby Bible, including Darby's 3rd edition New Testament and his students' Old Testament, was first published in 1890.\n\nDarby's purpose was, as he states in the preface to his English NT, to make a modern translation for the unlearned who have neither access to manuscript texts nor training and knowledge of ancient languages of the Scriptures. He was the principal scholar for a number of translations – and not the sole translator of any one of the various translations that bear his name. He worked with various brethren who had academic and spiritual qualifications. He also acknowledges dependence on the critical work of Samuel Prideaux Tregelles and various other scholars. Darby's translation work was not intended to be read aloud. His work was for study and private use. In his own oral ministry he generally used the English KJV.\n\nWhen Darby first issued his New Translation into English he wrote in the preface to the Revelation: \"if the reader find my translation exceedingly similar to Mr. William Kelly's, I can only rejoice in it, as mine was made a year or two before his came out, and he has never seen mine up to the time of my writing this ...\" (Darby went on to write that his New Testament translation had been lying by him for some years then.) In his introduction to the 1871 German version, he wrote, \"In the issue of this translation, the purpose is not to offer to the man of letters a learned work, but rather to provide the simple and unlearned reader with as exact a translation as possible.\"\n\nIn the Old Testament Darby translates the covenant name of God as \"Jehovah\" instead of rendering it \"LORD\" or \"GOD\" (in all capital letters) as most English translations do. Among other widely used translations aside from The Darby Bible other versions such as Robert Young's Literal Translation (1862, 1898), The American Standard Version (1901), Recovery Version (1991), and the Jehovah's Witnesses' New World Translation (1961, 1984, 2013) have followed this practice. The footnotes of many editions (such as the 1961 Modified Notes Edition) of Darby Bible's New Testament indicate where \"Lord\" (\"Kurios\" in Greek) in the scripture text probably refers to \"Jehovah\". The 1961 Modified Notes Edition of the Darby Bible includes the 1871 New Testament Preface, which says in part: \"All the instances in which the article is wanting before Kurios are not marked by brackets; but I give here all the passages in which Kurios, which the LXX employ for Jehovah, thence transferred to the New Testament, is used as a proper name; that is, has the sense of 'Jehovah.'\" It then gives a listing of those places.\n\nFor some verses the Darby New Testament has detailed footnotes which make reference to his scholarly textual criticism comparisons.\n\nCritics of the Darby Bible include Charles Spurgeon.\n\nGenesis 1:1-3<br>In the beginning God created the heavens and the earth. And the earth was waste and empty, and darkness was on the face of the deep, and the Spirit of God was hovering over the face of the waters. And God said, Let there be light. And there was light.\n\nIsaiah 34:14<br>And there shall the beasts of the desert meet with the jackals, and the wild goat shall cry to his fellow; the Lilith also shall settle there, and find for herself a place of rest.\n\nPsalm 119:89<br>LAMED. For ever, O Jehovah, thy word is settled in the heavens.\n\nMatthew 6:9-13<br>Thus therefore pray *ye*: Our Father who art in the heavens, let thy name be sanctified, let thy kingdom come, let thy will be done as in heaven so upon the earth; give us to-day our needed bread,\nand forgive us our debts, as we also forgive our debtors,\nand lead us not into temptation, but save us from evil.\n\nJohn 1:1-3<br>In [the] beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God.*He* was in the beginning with God.\nAll things received being through him, and without him not one [thing] received being which has received being.\n\nJohn 7:16–17<br>Jesus therefore answered them and said, My doctrine is not mine, but that of him that has sent me. If any one desire to practise his will, he shall know concerning the doctrine, whether it is of God, or that I speak from myself.\n\nPhilippians 4:13<br>I have strength for all things in him that gives me power.\n\nThe Darby Bible in German is known as the \"Elberfelder Bibel\". Julius Anton von Poseck (1816–1896) had been translating some NT Epistles into German. In 1851 he sent his work in progress to Darby for review. This stimulated Darby to begin work in 1854 on a full translation and he proceeded on the German translation with von Poseck and Carl Brockhaus (1822–1899). The German NT was published in 1855. When von Poseck moved to England in 1857, the Old Testament translation was made by Darby, Brockhaus and a Dutch Hebraist, Hermanus Cornelis Voorhoeve (1837–1901). The OT work commenced 1869 and was completed in 1871, when the whole Bible was published. Since then there have been a number of significant updates and revisions, including the revisions in 1960, 1975, 1985 by R. Brockhaus Verlag Elberfeld (entitled: \"Elberfelder Bibel\") and most recently in 2003 by Christliche Schriftenverbreitung Hückeswagen (entitled: \"Elberfelder Übersetzung, Edition CSV Hückeswagen\").\n\nDarby's principles of translation are in the Introduction to his German translation of the New Testament:\n\n\"Now whilst the learned can examine the original text, this privilege is out of the reach of the unlearned, and of those unacquainted with that text. It has therefore been our endeavour and object to give a helping hand to the latter class, and to furnish them at a small cost with as faithful and exact a representation as possible of the divine word in their own language. Undoubtedly every translation must be more or less defective, and we by no means value our work so highly as that we would set aside one more perfectly executed by another hand. How great the difficulties are of conveying the expressions of one language, especially of the rich Greek, in another, those alone can tell who have tried to make a translation. [...] We might indeed have clothed many passages in more elegant German, but, without being in bondage to words, we have been governed throughout by the thought that the faithful rendering of the original text outweighs every other consideration; and the more so because we believe with the very fullest conviction the divine inspiration of the holy scriptures as the revelation of the infinite wisdom of God, and the expression of His gracious character in Jesus Christ. But since no one is able to grasp the whole expanse of this revelation, and often a meaning beyond the comprehension of the translator lies hidden in a sentence, which would be lost in a free translation but may be found in a more literal one, through deeper teaching of the Holy Spirit—it is evidently necessary to reproduce the original text as in a mirror.\"\n\nWilliam Joseph Lowe (1840–1927) and Pierre Schlumberger were in the translation team for the Pau-Vevey French translation which was first issued in 1859. The title page read, 'Les Livres Saints Connus sous le Nom de Nouveau Testament. Version nouvelle.' Darby worked on this project in Pau, Southern France, but the work was done primarily for the numerous Brethren in French-speaking Switzerland. The translation of the New Testament was reissued in 1872, 1875 and 1878. The complete Bible appeared in 1885.\n\nThe 'Darby' New Translation of the New Testament in Dutch is chiefly the work of H. C. Voorhoeve, but he seems to have leaned somewhat on the labours of the German team. His work has gone through a number of revisions. The most recent (5th) edition of the Voorhoeve Testament known as the 'Telos' translation is the work of J. Klein Haneveld, Willem J. Ouweneel, Henk P. Medema and Gerard H. Kramer in 1982. This last edition has been updated and is republished by Grace Publishing House in 2018. \n\nAn anonymous 'Darby' type translation of the Psalms also exists and is available from \"Uit Het Woord Der Waarheid\", Aalten, Netherlands.\n\nNumerous biographies of Darby suggest he completed work on an Italian New Testament. His work has not been located but a translation based on his French work was completed by Plymouth Brethren members, Edward Lawrence Bevir (1847–1922) (one of JND's peers) and revised by Alexander Carruthers (1860–1930). The Italian NT was first issued in 1890 and a revision was completed in 1930. It is still in print (2008).\n\nThis edition of the New Testament arose out of the peculiar tendency among the Taylor Exclusive Brethren to complete and exact uniformity. Its page layout is almost precisely similar to the English edition produced by the Taylor Brethren in 1961 and published by AB Petersons Foerlag, Gothenburg. The principal work was done by Eric Carrén and is in fact a tertiary translation based on the German and other Darby translations of the New Testament.\n\nThe Swedish 'Darby' New Testament is still in print (2008).\n\nPrevious attempts to produce a 'Darby' type translation of the New Testament had been made by a Glanton brother. He tentatively published at least two of Paul's Epistles in booklet form (copies held at Cross Archive, London).\n\nA number of foreign language translations show their dependence upon Darby's work. These include W. H. Westcott's Congo vernacular Bible, Victor Danielson's Faroese work and the Romanian Bible published by Gute Botschaft Verlag, Dillenburg, Germany. A Slovak New Testament has been issued by Kingston Bible Trust on the basis of Darby's work. It contains annotations by F. E. Raven.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1926917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926917", "title": "DFS Olympia Meise", "text": "DFS Olympia Meise\n\nThe DFS Olympia Meise (German: \"Olympic Tit\") was a German sailplane designed by the Deutsche Forschungsanstalt für Segelflug (DFS) for Olympic competition, based on the DFS Meise.\n\nAfter the Olympic games in Berlin in 1936 introduced gliding as an Olympic sport, plans were made to fly the 1940 Olympic championships with a standard design of sailplane to give each pilot the same chances. The Meise was redesigned to fit into the new Olympic class specifications. The new 'Olympia' Meise had the prescribed wingspan of 15 m (49 ft 2 in), spoilers, but no flaps, and an undercarriage consisting of a skid and a non-retractable wheel. The pilot sat all-enclosed in an aerodynamically clean fuselage made of laminated wood and topped by an acrylic glass hood. The plane could be launched by winch as well by towplane. Its wood-and-fabric construction made it easy for flying clubs to maintain, to repair and even to build the gliders from kits.\n\nA design contest to select the single Olympic glider was run by testing the prototypes of the entered and accepted designs at Sezze airfield in Italy between 20–26 February 1939. There were six evaluation pilots of different nationalities. They chose Hans Jacobs’ design, the DFS Meise.\n\nBoth the Meise as well as the Olympic class gained immediate enthusiastic support, and the 1940 Olympic gliding championship would probably have ended up as an all-Meise contest — if the Second World War had not intervened and the 1940 Olympics had not been cancelled. Nevertheless, 626 Olympia Meises were built in Germany during the war by Flugzeugbau Ferdinand Schmetz Herzogenrath (601 built) and Flugzeugbau Schleicher (25). Most of the German production were among the 15,000 German gliders destroyed in 1945. 17 were also built at the time in Sweden.\n\nThe design of the Olympia Meise survived the war and was taken up by a small British firm called Chilton Aircraft Ltd. The German drawings were not detailed and so entirely new drawings were made that retained the Olympia Meise's aerodynamic shape but otherwise it was a stronger and heavier aircraft. After building one prototype, which flew in 1946, the rights and drawings of the Chilton aircraft were taken up by another British company, Elliotts of Newbury (EoN). Their first EoN Olympia flew in 1947. Later variants by Elliotts continued to be produced as gliders suitable for the World Gliding Championships into the late 1950s. The Olympia was also built after the war in Germany, where series production restarted in 1956, in France as the Nord 2000 (100 built), in the Netherlands, Switzerland (12), Hungary (35) with a further twenty modified as the Cinke, Australia (3), Austria, in Czechoslovakia as the Zlin Z-25 Šohaj, Brazil (7).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1926932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926932", "title": "Beneš decrees", "text": "Beneš decrees\n\nThe Decrees of the President of the Republic (, ) and the Constitutional Decrees of the President of the Republic (, ), commonly known as the Beneš decrees, were a series of laws drafted by the Czechoslovak government-in-exile in the absence of the Czechoslovak parliament during the German occupation of Czechoslovakia in World War II. They were issued by President Edvard Beneš from 21 July 1940 to 27 October 1945 and retroactively ratified by the Interim National Assembly of Czechoslovakia on 6 March 1946.\n\nThe decrees dealt with various aspects of the restoration of Czechoslovakia and its legal system, denazification, and reconstruction of the country. In journalism and political history, the term \"Beneš decrees\" refer to the decrees of the president and the ordinances of the Slovak National Council (SNR) concerning the status of ethnic Germans, Hungarians and others in postwar Czechoslovakia and represented Czechoslovakia's legal framework for the expulsion of Germans from Czechoslovakia. \n\nAs a result, almost all ethnic Germans and Hungarians whose ancestors had lived in Czechoslovakia for centuries prior to World War II or those who had settled there during the German occupation of Czechoslovakia lost their Czechoslovakian citizenship and property and were expelled from their homes. Some of them died during the expulsion process which took place during the late 1940s. The Beneš decrees were enforced differently in different parts of the country with some decrees being valid only in Bohemia and Moravia, while the ordinances of SNR were enforced in Slovakia.\n\nThe decrees remain politically controversial in both the Czech Republic and Slovakia.\n\nBeneš, who was elected president of Czechoslovakia in 1935, resigned after the Munich Agreement in 1938. After the occupation of Czechoslovakia Beneš and other Czechoslovak politicians and officials emigrated to France, establishing the Czechoslovak National Committee, in November 1939, to restore Czechoslovakia. The committee's primary task was to establish a Czechoslovak army in France. After the fall of France the committee moved to London, where it became the Interim Czechoslovak Government. The government was recognized as the \"interim Czechoslovak government\" by Great Britain on 21 July 1940 and in 1941 it was fully recognized by the U.S. and the USSR as the government of the allied state. Since its recognition in 1940, the government issued the decrees to rule over Czechoslovak citizens abroad.\n\nBeneš and other Czechoslovak politicians blamed the national minorities (Hungarians and Germans) for the collapse of Czechoslovakia, which was why they wanted to create an ethnically homogeneous nation-state.\n\nAccording to the Czechoslovak constitution of 1920, the only body with power to issue the laws was the National Assembly (parliament) with each law being contrasigned by the president. As there was no way to summon the parliament in the exile, the only body with limited legislative power was the office of the president. The legality of the whole government-in-exile was therefore derived from the person of Edvard Beneš who, nevertheless, resigned his office in October 1938.\n\nBeneš returned to his post as president on the premise that his 1938 resignation under duress was invalid. He then appointed members of the government-in-exile and the State Council. Because his presidential term should have ended in 1942, the government adopted a resolution that Beneš would remain president until new elections could be held.\n\nAlthough Beneš alone issued Decree No. 1/1940 (on the establishment of the government), all later decrees were proposed by the government in exile according to the 1920 Czechoslovak constitution and co-signed by the prime minister or a delegated minister. The decrees' validity was subject to later ratification by the National Assembly.\nBeginning on September 1, 1944 (after the Slovak National Uprising) the Slovak National Council (SNR) held legislative and executive power in Slovakia, later differentiating between statewide acts and other regulations; presidential decrees were valid in Slovakia only if they explicitly mentioned agreement by the SNR.\n\nOn 4 April 1945 a new government was created in Košice, Slovakia (recently liberated by the Red Army), consisting of parties united in the National Front and strongly influenced by the Communist Party of Czechoslovakia. The president's power to enact decrees (as proposed by the government) remained in force until 27 October 1945, when the Interim National Assembly convened.\n\nThe decrees may be divided as follows:\nAlthough decrees were not covered by the 1920 constitution, they were considered necessary by the Czechoslovak wartime and postwar authorities. On ratification by the Interim National Assembly, they became binding laws with retroactive validity and attempted to preserve Czechoslovak legal order during the occupation. Most of the decrees were abolished by later legislation (see the list below) or became obsolete by having served their purpose.\n\n\"Note: This list includes only decrees published in the official Collection of Laws of Czechoslovakia after the liberation in 1945. Other (not re-published) decrees were ineffective in the liberated Czechoslovakia already in 1945.\"\n\nThe Beneš decrees are associated with the 1945-47 deportation of about 3 million ethnic Germans and Hungarians from Czechoslovakia. The deportation, based on Article 12 of the Potsdam Agreement, was the outcome of negotiations between the Allied Control Council and the Czechoslovak government. The expulsion is considered ethnic cleansing (a term in widespread use since the early 1990s) by a number of historians and legal scholars. The relevant decrees omit any reference to the deportation.\n\nOf the allies, the Soviet Union urged the United Kingdom and the U.S. to agree to the transfer of ethnic Germans and German-speaking Poles, Czechs, Hungarians, Yugoslavs and Romanians into their zones of occupation. France, which was not a party to the Potsdam Agreement, did not accept exiles in its zone of occupation after July 1945. Most ethnic-German Czechoslovak citizens had supported the Nazis through the Sudeten German Party (led by Konrad Henlein) and the 1938 German annexation of the Sudetenland. Most ethnic Germans of the Sudetenland, many of whom had wished their region to stay as part of Austria in 1919, failed to follow the mobilization order when Czechoslovakia was threatened with war by Hitler in 1938, crippling the army's defensive capabilities.\n\nIn general, the decrees dealt with loss of citizenship and confiscation of the property of:\n\nThe defining character in definition of the entities affected was their hostility to the Czechoslovak Republic and to the Czech and Slovak nations. The hostility presumption was irrebuttable in case of entities in the Art.1(1), while it is rebuttable under Art.1(2) in case of physical persons of German or Hungarian ethnicity, i.e. that they were exempted under Decrees 33 (loss of citizenship), 100 (nationalization of large enterprises without remuneration) and 108 (expropriation) where they proved that they remained loyal to the Czechoslovak Republic, they had not committed an offense against the Czech and Slovak nation, and that they had either actively participated in the liberation of Czechoslovakia or were subjected to Nazi or fascist terror. At the same time, Art 1(3) covered any persons notwithstanding ethnicity, including Czechs and Slovaks.\n\nSome 250,000 Germans, some anti-fascists exempted under the Decrees and others considered crucial to industry , remained in Czechoslovakia. Many ethnic German anti-fascists emigrated under an agreement drawn up by Alois Ullmann. \n\nSome of those affected held land settled by their ancestors since their invitation by the Bohemian king Otokar II during the 13th century or the Hungarian conquest of the Carpathian Basin at the turn of the ninth and tenth centuries.\n\nLoss of Czechoslovak citizenship was addressed in Decree 33 (see description above). Under article three of the decree, those who lost their citizenship could request its restoration within six months of the decree's promulgation and requests would be assessed by the Interior Ministry.\n\nOn 13 April 1948 the Czechoslovak government issued Regulation 76/1948 Coll., lengthening the window for requesting reinstatement of Czechoslovak citizenship under Decree 33 to three years. Under this regulation, the Interior Ministry was bound to restore an applicant's citizenship unless it could determine that they had breached the \"duties of a Czechoslovak citizen\"; the applicant may have been requested also to prove \"adequate\" knowledge of Czech or Slovak language.<ref name=\"Regulation 76/1948\">, Section 3</ref>\n\nOn 25 October 1948 Act 245/1948 Coll. was adopted, in which ethnic Hungarians who were Czechoslovak citizens on 1 November 1938 and lived in Czechoslovakia at the time of the act's promulgation could regain Czechoslovak citizenship if they pledged allegiance to the Republic within 90 days. Taking the oath would, according to German laws valid at the time in 1948, automatically lead to loss of German citizenship.\n\nOn 13 July 1949, Act 194/1949 Coll. was adopted. Under article three of the act, the Interior Ministry could bestow citizenship on applicants who had not committed an offence against Czechoslovakia or the people's democracy, had lived in the country for at least five years, and who would lose their other citizenship by receiving the Czechoslovak one.\n\nOn 24 April 1953, Act 34/1953 Coll. was adopted. Under this act, ethnic Germans who lost Czechoslovak citizenship under Decree 33 and were living in Czechoslovakia on the day of the act's promulgation automatically regained their citizenship. This also applied to spouses and children living in Czechoslovakia with no other citizenship.\n\nFor comparison, any person may currently be granted Czech citizenship if they:\n\nAfter the Velvet Revolution Act 243/1992 Coll. was adopted, arranging restitution of real estate taken by the decrees or lost during the occupation. The act applied to:\n\nIn 2010 the United Nations Human Rights Committee, under the Optional Protocol to the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, reviewed a communication submitted by Josef Bergauer et al. The committee held that the covenant became effective in 1975 and its protocol in 1991. Since the covenant could not be applied retroactively, the committee held that the communication was inadmissible.\n\nAfter the Velvet Revolution Czechoslovakia also adopted Act 87/1991 Coll., providing restitution or compensation to victims of confiscation for political reasons during the Communist regime (25 February 1948 – 1 January 1990). The law also provided for restitution or compensation to victims of racial persecution during World War II who are entitled by Decree 5/1945.\n\nIn 2002 the UN Human Rights Committee stated its views in \"Brokova v. The Czech Republic\", in which the applicant was refused restitution of property nationalized under Decree 100 (nationalization of large enterprises). Brokova was excluded from restitution, although the Czech nationalization in 1946–47 could be implemented only because the author's property had been confiscated during the German occupation. In the committee's view, this was discriminatory treatment of the plaintiff compared to those whose property was confiscated by Nazi authorities and not nationalized immediately after the war (and who, therefore, could benefit from the laws of 1991 and 1994). The committee found that Brokova was denied her right to equal protection under the law, in violation of article 26 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights.\n\nIn 2005, the European Court of Human Rights refused the application of Josef Bergauer and 89 others against the Czech Republic. According to the applicants, \"after the Second World War, they were expelled from their homeland in genocidal circumstances\", their property was confiscated by Czechoslovak authorities, the Czech Republic failed to suspend the Beneš Decrees and had not compensated them. The court held that the expropriation took place long before the implementation of the European Convention on Human Rights with respect to the Czech Republic. Since Article 1 of Protocol 1 does not guarantee the right to acquire property, although the Beneš Decrees remained part of Czech law the applicants had no claim under the convention against the Czech Republic to recover the confiscated property. According to the court, \"it should be further noted that the case-law of the Czech courts made the restitution of property available even to persons expropriated contrary to the Presidential Decrees, thus providing for the reparation of acts which contravened the law then in force. The Czech judiciary thus provides protection extending beyond the standards of the Convention.\"\n\nThe validity of the Beneš decrees was first reviewed at the plenary session of the Czech Constitutional Court in its decisions of 8 March 1995, published as Decisions No. 5/1995 Coll. and 14/1995 Coll. The court addressed the following issues concerning the decrees' validity:\n\n\n\n\n\nIn Decision 14/1995 Coll. the court held that the decree at issue was legitimate. It found that since the decree has fulfilled its purpose and has not produced legal effects for more than four decades, it may not be reviewed by the court for its adherence to the 1992 Czech constitution. In the court's view, such a review would lack legal purpose and cast doubt on the principle of legal certainty (an essential principle of democracies adhering to the rule of law).\n\nAlthough under Decrees 12 and 108 confiscations were automatic on the basis of the decrees themselves, Decree 100 (nationalization of large enterprises) required a formal decision by the Minister of Industry. According to the Constitutional Court, if a Decree 100 nationalization decision was made by someone other than the minister the nationalization was invalid and subject to legal challenge.\n\nWhile hearing appeals of court decisions dealing with Decree 12 confiscations, the Constitutional Court held that courts must decide whether a confiscation decision was motivated by persecution and a decree used as a pretext. This applied to cases of those who remained in the Sudetenland after the Munich Agreement (gaining German citizenship while remaining loyal to Czechoslovakia) and those convicted as traitors whose convictions were later overturned (with their property confiscated in the meantime).\n\nSlovakia, as a legal successor of Czechoslovakia, adopted its legal order by Article 152 of the Slovak constitution. This includes the Beneš decrees and Czechoslovak Constitutional Act 23/1991 (the Charter of Fundamental Human Rights and Freedoms). This act made all acts or regulations not compliant with the charter inoperable. Although the Beneš decrees are a valid historical part of Slovak law, they can no longer create legal relationships and have been ineffective since 31 December 1991.\n\nOn 20 September 2007, the Slovak parliament adopted a resolution concerning the untouchability of postwar documents relating to conditions in Slovakia after World War II. The resolution was originally proposed by the ultra-nationalist Slovak National Party in response to the activities of Hungarian members of parliament and organizations in Hungary. The Beneš decrees were a significant talking point of the Hungarian extremist groups Magyar Gárda and Nemzeti Őrsereg, which became active in August 2007. The approved text differed from the proposal in several important respects. The resolution commemorated the victims of World War II, refused the principle of collective guilt, expressed a desire to stop the reopening of topics related to World War II in the context of European integration and declared a wish to build good relationships with Slovakia's neighbors. It also rejected all attempts at revision and questioning of laws, decrees, agreements or other postwar decisions of Slovak and Czechoslovak bodies which could lead to changes in the postwar order, declaring that postwar decisions are not the basis of current discrimination and cannot establish legal relationships. The resolution was adopted by an absolute parliamentary majority and approved by the coalition government and opposition parties, except for the Party of the Hungarian Coalition. It prompted a strong negative reaction in Hungary, and Hungarian President László Sólyom said that it would strain Hungarian-Slovak relations.\n\nPoliticians and journalists have frequently ignored differences in conditions between Slovakia and the Czech Republic during the postwar era. In Slovakia, some measures incorrectly called \"Beneš decrees\" were not presidential decrees but ordinances by the Slovak National Council (SNR). The confiscation of the agricultural property of Germans, Hungarians, traitors and enemies of the Slovak nation was not enforced by the Beneš decrees, but by the Ordinance of the SNR 104/1945; punishment of fascist criminals, occupiers, traitors and collaborators was based on the Ordinance of the SNR 33/1945. The Beneš decrees and SNR ordinances sometimes contained different solutions.\n\nThe list of decrees which have never been valid in Slovakia contains several with a significant impact on German and Hungarian minorities in the Czech lands:\nIn 1990 the speakers of the Slovak and Hungarian parliaments, František Mikloško and György Szabad, agreed on the reassessment of their common relationship by a commission of Slovak and Hungarian historians. Although the initiative was hoped to lead to a common memorandum about the limitation of mutual injustices, it did not have the expected result. On February 12, 1991 the Slovak National Council formally apologized for postwar persecution of innocent Germans, rejecting the principle of collective guilt. In 2003, speaker of the Slovak parliament Pavol Hrušovský said that Slovakia was ready to apologize for postwar injustices if Hungary would do likewise. Although Hungarian National Assembly Speaker Katalin Szili approved his initiative, further steps were not taken. In 2005 Mikloško apologized for injustices on his own, and similar unofficial apologies were made by representatives of both sides.\n\nAccording to Radio Prague, since the decrees which dealt with the status and property of Germans, Hungarians and traitors have not been repealed they still affect political relations between the Czech Republic and Slovakia and Austria, Germany and Hungary. Expellees in the Sudetendeutsche Landsmannschaft (part of the Federation of Expellees) and associated political groups call for the abolition of the Beneš decrees based on the principle of collective guilt.\n\nOn 28 December 1989 future Czechoslovak president Václav Havel, at that time a candidate, suggested that former inhabitants of the Sudetenland might apply for Czech nationality to reclaim their lost property. The governments of Germany and the Czech Republic signed a declaration of mutual apology for wartime misdeeds in 1997.\n\nDuring the early 2000s, Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, Austrian Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel and Bavarian Premier Edmund Stoiber demanded that the Beneš decrees be repealed as a precondition for both countries' entrance to the European Union. Hungarian Prime Minister Péter Medgyessy eventually decided not to press the issue.\n\nIn 2003 Liechtenstein, supported by Norway and Iceland, blocked an agreement about extending the European Economic Area because of the Beneš decrees and property disputes with the Czech Republic and (to a lesser extent) Slovakia. However, since the two countries were expected to become members of the European Union the issue was moot. Liechtenstein did not recognize Slovakia until 9 December 2009.\n\nPrime Minister Miloš Zeman said that the Czechs would not consider repealing the decrees because of an underlying fear that doing so would open the door to demands for restitution. According to \"Time\", former Czech foreign minister Jan Kavan said: \"Why should we single out the Beneš Decrees? ... They belong to the past and should stay in the past. Many current members of the E.U. had similar laws.\" In 2009 eurosceptic Czech president Václav Klaus demanded an opt-out of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, feeling that the charter would render the Beneš decrees illegal. In 2010, when Masaryk University erected a statue to Edvard Benes, local journalist Michael Kašparek criticized the move because of what he dubbed \"Expel Them All, Let God Sort Them Out!\" decrees. In January 2013 conservative Czech presidential candidate Karel Schwarzenberg said, \"What we committed in 1945 would today be considered a grave violation of human rights, and the Czechoslovak government, along with President Beneš, would have found themselves in The Hague.\" His opponent, Miloš Zeman, seized on the statement to discredit Schwarzenberg, accusing him of being supported by Sudeten Germans.\n\nIn June 2018, German Chancellor Angela Merkel said there had been \"no moral or political justification\" for the post-war expulsion of ethnic Germans.\n\n"}
{"id": "1926938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926938", "title": "Thomas C. Stanford", "text": "Thomas C. Stanford\n\nThomas C. Stanford (September 30, 1865 – January 14, 1946) is the founder of Carey, Idaho. He was a Mormon rancher and a state legislator in Idaho.\n\nStanford was born in Logan, Utah Territory, a son of Stephen and Louisa (Forman) Stanford. His father, a native of England, came to Utah Territory in 1861. Of the ten children, Thomas C. was the fifth and was four years old when the family moved to Salt Lake City, where he grew up and received a basic education. He later attended the Brigham Young Academy.\n\nIn 1884, at age nineteen he moved to Albion, Idaho. After a brief stay there, he located a homestead in the Little Wood River valley, which was the center of his operations as a rancher and stockman. Along with operating his own ranch, Stanford also worked for a number of years as a cowboy, stage driver, and freighter.\n\nIn 1895 he bought additional land and engaged in sheep raising as well a continuing his interests in cattle and horses. He was regarded as one of the most successful livestock producers in Idaho. In his later years he also raised hogs on an extensive scale. His home place consisted of 160 acres (64.7 hectares) near Carey, Blaine County, Idaho. Further down the valley he had 250 acres (101.2 hectares) of land. Both farms were under irrigation and capable of producing fine crops.\n\nStanford continued actively in the sheep business until 1918. He then sold his flocks and focused on general ranching and cattle raising. Over the years he replaced the family's original log home with \"a beautiful and commodious residence\" and similarly upgraded the ranching structures.\n\nStanford was instrumental in the organized activities of Idaho stock growers and in 1908-10 served as president of the Idaho Wool Growers Association. He was instrumental in getting much legislation passed beneficial to wool growers, and as president of the association called the first meeting that led to the organization of the National Wool Warehouse. Western wool growers organized the National Wool WareHouse and Storage Company at a 1909 meeting in Chicago. Their intent was to deal cooperatively with wool buyers to regularize pricing and avoid wide swings in the supply-demand situation.\n\nStanford was a Republican member of the Ninth Idaho Legislature in the lower house (1907), and Governor Hawley appointed him a member of the livestock board of the state. For many years he played an active and influential role at the Republican state convention. Supporters and friends urged him to run for governor in 1912, but he declined. He did serve in Blaine County as a Justice of the Peace and in other local offices.\n\nIn June 1900, he married Ida Ivie, daughter of John Ivie, an old Indian scout, who served during the early Indian wars in Utah. The four children of their marriage were: Roka, Esther, Charles, and Frank.\n\nMr. Stanford was for a number of years actively connected with The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints and served as a missionary in New Zealand for three years and for two years in the United States.\n\nMr. Stanford assisted in developing irrigation projects in Blaine County and surrounding parts of Idaho. In fact, his name seems to have been associated both as a worker and liberal contributor to all the community development projects in the Little Wood River valley for many years. He was an organizer of the local telephone company at Carey, served as vice president of the company, and was afterward elected its president. He was also one of the organizers of the Carey State Bank and at one time was president of the Cooperative Store.\n\nHe moved to Boise, Idaho in 1945 due to ill health and died there. He is buried in the Cloverdale Memorial Park, west of Boise.\n\nSubstantial passages of this article were copied directly, not just paraphrased, from the biography published in the 1914 Hiram T. French reference. \n"}
{"id": "1926954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926954", "title": "Cave Research Foundation", "text": "Cave Research Foundation\n\nThe Cave Research Foundation (CRF) is an American private, non-profit group dedicated to the exploration, research, and conservation of caves. The group arose in the early 1950s from the exploration efforts at Floyd Collins Crystal Cave, now within Mammoth Cave National Park. Its stated goals were: to promote exploration and documentation of caves and karst areas, initiate and support cave and karst research, aid in cave conservation and protection, and to assist with the interpretation of caves and karst to the public.\n\nCRF officially incorporated in 1957 under the laws of the Commonwealth of Kentucky.\nThe Guadalupe Cave Survey, explorers at Carlsbad Caverns National Park, New Mexico, became part of CRF in 1971. In 1976, cave survey at Sequoia National Park/Kings Canyon National Park, California, and Buffalo National River, Arkansas, became CRF projects. Additional cave projects in Cumberland Gap National Historic Park, Kentucky; Lava Beds National Monument, California; and the Ozark National Scenic Riverways, Missouri; have been included as operation areas of the CRF.\n\nStarting with Mammoth Cave National Park, CRF work has primarily focused on United States federal lands---particularly within United States National Parks. As such, the CRF has been involved with several of the major cave exploration achievements of the 20th century. In particular, CRF mapping at Mammoth Cave, Kentucky led to its documentation as the world's longest known cave.\n\nSince its inception, CRF has primarily been concerned with cave mapping. Thus, its membership draws experienced cavers, particularly those interested in cave surveying and cartography.\n\nCave Books, founded in 1981, is the non-profit publishing affiliate of the Cave Research Foundation. It is perhaps the world’s largest publisher of books on caves, karst, and speleology. Cave Books is staffed by volunteers, and the managing editor is Elizabeth Grace Winkler.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1926965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926965", "title": "Christoph Probst", "text": "Christoph Probst\n\nChristoph Ananda Probst (born 6 November 1919 – 22 February 1943) was a German student of medicine and member of the White Rose (\"Weiße Rose\") resistance group.\n\n\"White Rose\" was the name of a resistance group in Munich in the time of the Third Reich. The group, founded in June 1942, consisted of students from the Ludwig-Maximilians-University of Munich who distributed leaflets against the Nazis' war policy. Christoph Probst belonged, along with the Scholl siblings, Willi Graf and Alexander Schmorell to the tightest circle, into which university professor Kurt Huber also came.\n\nThe members of White Rose put together, printed and distributed, at the risk of their lives, six leaflets in all. On 18 February 1943, the Scholls were distributing the sixth leaflet at the university when they were discovered by a custodian, who delivered them to the Gestapo.\n\nOn 22 February 1943, Christoph Probst and the Scholls were tried and sentenced together at the \"Volksgerichtshof\" by judge Roland Freisler, who was known for often determining sentences even before the trial, and all three were sentenced to death by guillotine. Their sentences were carried out on the very same day at Stadelheim Prison, Munich.\n\nTheir grave may be found in the graveyard bordering the execution place, \"Am Perlacher Forst\".\n\nProbst was born in Murnau am Staffelsee. His father, Hermann Probst, was a private scholar and Sanskrit researcher, fostered contacts with artists who were deemed by the Nazis to be \"decadent\". After his first marriage with Karin Katharina Kleeblatt, Christoph's mother, broke up in 1919, he married Elise Jaffée, who was Jewish. Christoph's sister, Angelika, remembers that her brother was strongly critical of Nazi ideas that violated human dignity.\n\nProbst went to boarding school at Marquartstein and Landheim Schondorf, which was also not conducive to fostering Nazi German ideas, and at 17, he matriculated. After military service, he began his medical studies with great earnestness. Aged 21, he married Herta Dohrn, with whom he had three children: Michael, Vincent and Katja.\n\nChristoph Probst came rather late into the White Rose as he did not belong to the same student corps as Hans Scholl, Alexander Schmorell and Willi Graf, and stayed for the most part in the background, as he had to think of his family. He wrote some of the text for the White Rose's leaflet which Hans Scholl was carrying with him when he and his sister Sophie went to the university on 18 February 1943 to distribute leftover copies of the sixth leaflet.\n\nWhen the Scholl siblings were arrested at the University of Munich, the Gestapo acquired proof against Probst. Before his execution he requested to be and was baptized by a Roman Catholic priest. He was executed on 22 February 1943, along with Hans and Sophie Scholl, despite asking for clemency during interrogation. He also requested a trial for the sake of his wife and three children, who were aged three years, two years and four weeks old. His wife, Herta Probst, was sick with childbed fever at the time.\n\nOn 3 November 1999, Christoph Probst was included in the martyrology of the Catholic church.\n\nChristoph Probst was portrayed by Florian Stetter in the film \"\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1926986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926986", "title": "Cruickshank Botanic Garden", "text": "Cruickshank Botanic Garden\n\nThe Cruickshank Botanic Gardens in Aberdeen, Scotland, were built on land presented to the University of Aberdeen in 1898 by Miss Anne Cruickshank to commemorate her brother Dr. Alexander Cruickshank. The 11 acre (45,000 m²) garden is located in a low-lying and fairly sheltered area of Aberdeen, less than from the North Sea. \n\nThe Cruickshank Botanic Garden is partly owned and financed by the university and partly by the Cruickshank Botanic Gardens Trust. The Friends of the Cruickshank Botanic Garden actively promote and support the garden. Each summer vacation the Friends provide a bursary to allow an undergraduate student interested in botany to gain work experience in the gardens.\n\nAlthough open to the public, the gardens are extensively used for both teaching and research purposes. The Natural History Centre regularly guides school parties round the Garden, and the School of Biological Sciences of the University of Aberdeen holds a reception for graduands and their guests here each July.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1927006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1927006", "title": "DnAnalytics", "text": "DnAnalytics\n\ndnAnalytics is an open-source numerical library for .NET written in C# and F#. It features functionality similar to BLAS and LAPACK.\n\nThe software library provides facilities for:\n\n"}
{"id": "1927082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1927082", "title": "Costaceae", "text": "Costaceae\n\nCostaceae, or the \"Costus\" family, is a family of pantropical monocots. It belongs to the order Zingiberales, which contains horticulturally and economically important plants such as the banana (Musaceae), bird-of-paradise (Strelitziaceae), and edible ginger (Zingiberaceae). The seven genera in Costaceae together contain about 143 known species (1 in \"Monocostus\", 2 in \"Dimerocostus\", 16 in \"Tapeinochilos\", 2 in \"Paracostus\", c. 8 in \"Chamaecostus\", c. 5 in \"Hellenia\", and c. 80 in \"Costus\"). They are native to tropical climates of Asia, Africa, Central America, and South America. Several species are frequently found in cultivation.\n\nThe simple leaves are entire and spirally arranged, with those toward the base of the stem usually bladeless. Leaf bases have a closed sheath with a ligule, or projection at the top of the sheath.\n\nCostaceae is different from the other families of Zingiberales in that its species have 5 fused staminodes, rather than 2 or 3, and the Costaceae contain no aromatic oils. The fused infertile stamens form a large petaloid labellum that often functions to attract pollinators. The flowers are solitary in \"Monocostus\". In the other genera, the flowers are borne in a terminal spike that ranges from elongate to nearly capitate. Each flower is subtended by a large bract. The fruit is a berry or capsule. The rhizome is fleshy with tuberous roots.\n\n"}
{"id": "1927088", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1927088", "title": "Muscular Dystrophy Family Foundation", "text": "Muscular Dystrophy Family Foundation\n\nFounded in 1958, the Muscular Dystrophy Family Foundation (MDFF) is a 501(c)(3) non-profit health agency located in Indianapolis, Indiana whose motto is \"No Boundaries\". The MDFF has no affiliation with the Muscular Dystrophy Association (MDA). Unlike the MDA, MDFF does not have research as part of its mission. Rather, MDFF is concerned with providing adaptive equipment and emotional support to those who suffer from muscular dystrophy, both patients and their families. Direct support services include: annual social events and other equipment and services that enable those with Muscular Dystrophy to enjoy greater mobility and independence.\n\nMDFF is a qualified 501(c)(3) non profit tax-exempt charity organization under federal tax guidelines.\n\n"}
{"id": "1927089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1927089", "title": "The Fairest of the Fair", "text": "The Fairest of the Fair\n\n\"The Fairest of the Fair\" is a 1908 march by John Philip Sousa. One of Sousa's more melodic, less military marches, it was composed for the annual Boston Food Fair of 1908. It is claimed that the memory of a pretty girl he had seen at an earlier fair inspired the composition.\n\nSousa composed \"The Fairest of the Fair\" in 1908, intending the Sousa Band to perform it at the annual Boston Food Fair in the fall of that year. It is the only work of any kind that he composed that year and one of only a handful of compositions that he wrote between 1906 and 1910. He apparently completed it in New York during the summer, as the final page of the original score was signed \"John Philip Sousa, Camp Comfort, Saranac Lake, Adirondack, New York, July 8, 1908.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1927090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1927090", "title": "Chris Vance (politician)", "text": "Chris Vance (politician)\n\nChris Vance (born May 1, 1962) is an American politician who served two terms on the Metropolitan King County Council and is a former member of the Washington State Legislature. Vance is also a former chair of the Washington State Republican Party. He and his wife Ann raised their son and daughter in Auburn, Washington.\n\nVance ran unsuccessfully for the U.S. Senate, losing to Democratic incumbent Patty Murray in the 2016 election.\n\nIn September 2017 he announced that he had left the Republican Party and had become an independent.\n\nVance was born in Seattle in 1962, and lived in Bellevue until the eighth grade, when his family moved to east Pierce County. In 1980, Vance graduated from Sumner High School. He attended Western Washington University where he earned a bachelor's degree in Political Science.\n\nAfter college Vance went to work for former Congressman Rod Chandler, then served as a research analyst with the Washington State Senate.\n\nFrom 1991 to 1994 Vance served in the Washington House of Representatives for the 31st Legislative District, following an unsuccessful 1988 bid. He was the second ranking Republican on the House Education Committee, and was elected by his colleagues to the position of Assistant Floor Leader. From 1994 to 2001 he represented the 13th district of the King County Council, acting as a leader in the areas of budget, transportation and land-use. In 2000, he unsuccessfully ran for Congress.\n\nIn 2001, Vance was elected Chairman of the Washington State Republican Party. He worked to get Republican officials elected, including Rob McKenna, the first Republican State Attorney General in 13 years.\n\nVance also played a central role in Dino Rossi's failed bid to become the Governor of Washington. After winning the first two statewide ballot counts, Secretary of State Sam Reed certified Rossi as the winner; however, a statewide hand recount resulted in the election of Democratic Party candidate Christine Gregoire.\n\nThe Rossi campaign and the Washington State Republican Party filed an election contest in Chelan County Superior Court. The controversy over the election lasted over six months, with Vance often serving as a spokesman for the party and Rossi's campaign.\n\nOn January 9, 2006, Vance announced he would resign his position and pursue opportunities in the private sector. He currently works as a public affairs consultant, a member of the management team of King County Assessor John Wilson, as well as being an instructor at the University of Washington's Evans School of Public Affairs, and is a frequent media commentator on Washington State politics. \n\nOn September 8, 2015, Vance announced that he was running for the US Senate against Democratic incumbent Patty Murray. During the campaign he announced that could not support Donald Trump for President. Vance received 41% of the vote in the November 2016 election. He outpolled Trump by over 107,000 voted in Washington State.\n\nIn 2017, Vance joined the American Civil Liberties Union.\n\nOn September 29, 2017, Vance announced on KUOW's \"Week in Review\" podcast that he had left the Republican Party, saying the following: \n\nI now consider myself an Independent. I am no longer a Republican after 36 years...For years I've seen the party move away from things I believed in...It didn't begin with Trump, but he certainly accelerated the process...I just don't agree with [the Republican Party] on 90% of the issues they talk about today.\n\nVance said he would be focusing future efforts on helping to establish an independent centrist movement in the country and would encourage Independents across the country to run for office. A month earlier, Vance had formally announced his support of and participation in the Centrist Project, with the goal of electing enough centrist candidates that Republicans and Democrats would have to negotiate with each other.\n\nFollowing the 2018 elections, which failed to produce significant victories for independent candidates, Vance refocused his efforts on the national Never Trump movement. He is a Senior Advisor to The Lincoln Project, and is active in other Never Trump/Former Republicans projects. In May 2020, Vance announced he was supporting Democrat Joe Biden for President in 2020.\n\n"}
{"id": "1927113", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1927113", "title": "The True Story of Ah Q", "text": "The True Story of Ah Q\n\nThe True Story of Ah Q is an episodic novella written by Lu Xun, first published as a serial between December 4, 1921 and February 12, 1922. It was later placed in his first short story collection \"Call to Arms\" (吶喊, Nàhǎn) in 1923 and is the longest story in the collection. The piece is generally held to be a masterpiece of modern Chinese literature, since it is considered the first piece of work to fully utilize Vernacular Chinese after the 1919 May 4th Movement in China.\n\nIt was first published in the Beijing Morning News supplement as a serial. Originally Lu Xun wrote the story under the name \"Ba Ren\" (\"crude fellow\"), and so few people knew who wrote the novella. The first installment was published on December 4, 1921, and additional installments appeared weekly and/or fortnightly. The final installment was published on February 12, 1922. The story had nine chapters.\n\nThe story traces the \"adventures\" of Ah Q, a man from the rural peasant class with little education and no definite occupation. Ah Q is famous for \"spiritual victories\", Lu Xun's euphemism for self-talk and self-deception even when faced with extreme defeat or humiliation. Ah Q is a bully to the less fortunate but fearful of those who are above him in rank, strength, or power. He persuades himself mentally that he is spiritually \"superior\" to his oppressors even as he succumbs to their tyranny and suppression. Lu Xun exposes Ah Q's extreme faults as symptomatic of the Chinese national character of his time. The ending of the piece is equally poignant and satirical.\n\nBoth the novella form and the low social station of the protagonist were new in the ancient Chinese literature. But the story consisted of nine serial episodic chapters (an old Chinese method for long folklore 章回體形式, which can consist of hundreds of chapters). This is the only novella published by Lu Xun.\n\nLu Xun believed that the purpose of literature was to transform the minds of and enlighten fellow Chinese. He followed the concept of \"wén yǐ zài dào\" (文以载道, \"literature as a vehicle for moral message\").\n\nIn Chapter One, the author ironically claims that he could not recall nor verify Ah Q's correct name, thus giving the character symbolic anonymity. \"Ah\" (阿) in Chinese is a diminutive prefix for names. \"Q\" is short for \"Quei\", which would today be romanized in Hanyu Pinyin as \"Guì.\" However, as there are many Chinese characters that are pronounced \"quei\", the narrator claims he does not know which character he should use, and therefore shortens it to \"Q\". The deliberate use of a Western letter instead of a Chinese character is a reference to the concepts of the May Fourth movement, which advocated adoption of Western ideas.\n\nMao Dun believed that \"Ah Q\" represented a \"crystallization of Chinese qualities\" and that it was not necessarily a satirical work. Zhou Zuoren, the author's brother, in the article \"[On] The True Story of Ah Q\" (阿Q正传; \"Ā Q Zhèngzhuàn\") said that the work was, as paraphrased by Paul B. Foster, author of \"Ah Q Archaeology: Lu Xun, Ah Q, Ah Q Progeny, and the National Character Discourse in Twentieth Century China\", \"unequivocally satirical\" and argued against Mao Dun's point of view.\n\nAh Q is known for deluding himself into believing he is the victor every time he loses a fight. In one scene in Chapter 2, Ah Q is beaten and had his silver stolen while he was gambling beside the theater. He slaps himself on the face, and because he is the person doing the slapping, he sees himself as the victor.\n\nWhen Mr. Zhao, an honored landlord of the village, beats Ah Q in a fight, Ah Q considers himself important for having even a tiny association with such a person. Though some villagers suspect Ah Q may have no true association with Mr. Zhao, they do not question the matter closely, and instead give Ah Q more respect for a time.\n\nAh Q is often close-minded about petty things. When he ventures into a new town and sees that a \"long bench\" is called a \"straight bench,\" he believes their way to be instantly inferior and totally wrong.\n\nThere is a scene in which Ah Q harasses a nun to make himself feel better. He pinches her and blames his problems on her. Instead of crying out at the injustice of Ah Q's bullying, the crowd nearby laughs.\n\nOne day, news of the Xinhai Revolution comes into town. Both landlord families, the Zhao and the Qian families, become revolutionaries to keep their power. Other people, calling themselves a \"revolutionary army\", rob the houses of the landlords and rich men. Ah Q also wants to join them and also call himself a revolutionary. But when the time comes, he misses the opportunity to act, because he slept in one morning and no one woke him up. Finally, Ah Q is arrested as a scapegoat for the looting and sentenced to death by the new governor.\n\nWhen Ah Q is asked to sign a confession, he worries that he cannot write his name. The officers tell him to sign a circle instead. Ah Q is so worried about drawing a perfect circle to save face that he is unaware he would be executed until it is too late. Before his death he tries to entertain the crowds watching his execution, but cannot decide on suitable lines from any Chinese opera. So he decides to sing on his own, but he sang for only one line.\n\nGloria Davies, the author of an entry in \"Chinese Literature, Essays, Articles, Reviews, Volumes 13–15\", said \"[t]he protagonist Ah Q became a symbol of all that was backward, despicable and tragic in Chinese society and often served Chinese intellectuals of the 1920s as a kind of negative criterion against which they could measure China's and their own advance into modernity.\"\n\nIn 1934 Lu Xun wrote to a periodical stating that, in regards to Ah Q, \"My method is to make the reader unable to tell who this character can be apart from himself, so that he cannot back away to become a bystander but rather suspects that this is a portrait of himself as well as everyone [in China]. A road to self-examination may therefore be opened to him.\" Mao Dun saw Ah Q as a representative of China like Oblomov, the main character of \"Oblomov\", represents Russia.\n\nAh Q is shaped as an image of part-time worker from the poor peasant caste affected by the religions and superstition in feudal society. Living in a half feudal half colonial society before the Xinhai Revolution, “Ah-Q’s Victories” is the psychological practise of how Ah-Q satisfies himself from real life failures and losses. He escapes from the reality, and he bully those weak-kneel and is afraid of the strong ones. He is unconfident, forgetful and changeable.\n\nThere is a claim that, in Ah-Q's name, 'Ah' represents prefix for friendly calling someone in Chinese, and 'Q' represents the imagery symbol of the people with pigtail in Ching dynasty. In other words, Ah-Q represents everyone who lived in the time of Xinhai revolution in China.\n\nIn the story, there are many scenes that reveal Ah Q's personality. One of the Ah Q's personality traits is that, no matter what happens, Ah Q always makes an excuse to get out of a tight spot. For instance, in Chapter 3 of the book, the author writes that after the fight Ah Q uses his “precious “ability to forget””, which shows that he does not have enough courage to deal with his emotions and, instead, uses this “ability” just to satisfy himself.\n\nA strong character trait of Ah Q is his limited focus on himself and his own outlook. Ah Q does not consider how others view him, engage in perspective-taking or impression management; this is demonstrated in chapter 4 during the incident with the young mistress, Amah Wu, when he abruptly asks her to sleep with him. In result, Ah Q's actions are strange and at times offend others. However, this does not bother Ah Q because he neither notices nor cares because he is strictly focused on his own needs and desires.\n\nThe narrator of the story states that he wishes to author a biography for the titular character, Ah Q. Ironically, the narrator then mentions that several difficulties of why writing about Ah Q is not easy: the title of this book, the surname of Ah Q, the true personal name of Ah Q and the native place of him. The narrator speculates that Ah Q's surname might have been \"Zhao,\" recounting a story of him being beaten by Mr. Zhao, a rich and famous senior villager, because he claimed that his surname was Zhao and thus is related to the Zhao family.\n\nIn Chapter 2 the narrator elaborates further on Ah Q's character, place in society and his daily routine. Ah Q's peers view him in a very low regard, due to his insignificant background. With no family, no regular employment and eccentric character, Ah Q is often the laughing stock and victim of bullying by the townsfolk. However, Ah Q has a high opinion of himself and looks down on others regardless of their income or status.\n\nThe chapter also gives the readers more in-depth imagery on Ah Q's (unfortunate) physical appearance. Specifically, the ringworm scar on his scalp that turns red when he is angry. This scar is a factor in him being ridiculed by the people around him. Ah Q's response differed based on his opponents. He would usually physically or verbally retaliate against the weak, but resorts to denial or self-belittlement against those better than him, and achieves some small emotional satisfaction through his actions.\n\nAh Q being slapped in the face by Mr. Zhao making him famous for he has prospered for a long time, as some townsfolk speculate on whether he is truly related to the Zhao family. One day, Ah Q finds Whiskers Wang, another tramp, and sits down next to him with no fear. Due to the lack of two Whiskers (beard), Ah Q feels jealous of Wang and provokes him into a fight. Wang wins and leaves with satisfaction after giving Ah Q a shove to the wall. Later, Ah Q sees Mr. Qian's eldest son, whom Ah Q hates a lot. Ah Q insults him by calling him “Baldhead”, and Mr. Qian's son beats him with a walking stick. Ah Q soon forgets everything that has just happened and goes to the alcohol shop. Soon after, when he sees a young nun on the streets, Ah Q claims all the bad luck that has just happened is because of her. Ah Q harasses the nun publicly and she leaves crying and cursing Ah Q. However, the other bystanders in the shop just laugh at her for amusement.\n\nAfter picking on a nun, Ah Q is victorious and feels as though he is flying right into the Tutelary God's Temple. The words from the nun weigh on his mind: \"Ah Q, may you die son-less!\" He realizes her insult has some merit and decides that he should take a wife. Ah Q rushes towards Mr. Zhao's maidservant, Amah Wu, and shouts \"Sleep with me!” The bailiff finds out about his attack on Mr. Zhao's maidservant and makes Ah Q agree to five terms.\n\nAfter the Chao family fiasco, Ah Q notices unusualness when walking through the streets of Weichuang. Women have become shy and take refuge indoors while wine shops refused service to him. What worries him is the fact that no household wants to hire him anymore, cutting Ah Q off from any source of income to support his livelihood. Shunned from regular employer's houses, Ah Q finds Young D, a weak beggar of lower status than Ah Q, to have taken Ah Q's odd jobs. To the delight of onlookers, the enraged Ah Q rushes to fight Young D which ends in a tie.\n\nAlmost starving, Ah Q returns to the streets and comes across the Convent of Quiet Self-improvement, finding a field containing a patch of turnips. Ah Q decides to steal the turnips until a nun notices him and lets loose her black dog on him. Ah Q runs and is able to escape with some turnips.\n\nAh Q does not come back to Weichuang until after the Moon Festival.The custom in Weichuang is \"that when there seem[s] to be something unusual about anyone, he should be treated with respect rather than insolence.\" According to him, he had been a servant for a successful provincial candidate. Later on, everyone wants to get their hands on Ah Q's silk shirts only to find out that he has run out of them and had been a petty thief.\n\nOne day, the news of the Xinhai Revolution comes. The landlord families become the revolutionaries to maintain their power. When Ah Q realizes that everyone fears the revolutionaries, he decides to be one of them and imagines exploiting rich families in town and ruling over the locals. A group of self-claimed revolutionaries rob the houses of the locals and rich families, and Ah Q is never called to join them. When Ah Q approaches the landlord rebels to express that he wants to join the rebels, he is refused from joining the rebellion. Ah Q becomes bitter that he cannot share the robbed goods and the prestige they enjoy.\n\nAfter the Chao family is robbed, Ah Q is dragged into town in the middle of the night, being carried to a yamen where he is pushed into a room. Keeping with his happy-go-lucky nature, the narrator says “although Ah Q was feeling rather uneasy, he was by no means too depressed.” In the end, Ah Q is executed with his cries of “Help, help!” never actually being said. Even before his death, he still preserves his self-absorbed and petty personality; he tries and fails to make his execution more impressive by reciting verses from some Chinese operas, but fails to find the right words.\n\nAh Q has a literary metaphor of national character. Ah Q became considered a recognizable symbol that expanded the intellectual discourse of national character into the popular consciousness. Originally, the name Ah Q represented a negative Chinese national character (guomin xing), which was not commonly used in a racist context. A negative example, it served as a warning to urge Chinese to change for the “better”. After the publication of \"The True Story of Ah Q,\" the \" Chinese themselves used the term to label those who are complacently ignorant, indolent, unhygienic, backward, slavish, and parochial\". However, because this term is used to describe \"negative human characteristics as \"natural\" components of the Chinese national character, they are ironically accepting and reinforcing certain stereotypical images of the Chinese\"\n\nThe story of Ah Q weaves together nationalism, modern Chinese literature and modern Chinese history.\n\nIn modern Chinese language, the term the \"Ah Q mentality\" (阿Q精神, \"Ā Q jīngshén\") is used commonly as a term of mockery to describe someone who chooses not to face up to reality and deceives himself into believing he is successful, or has unjustified beliefs of superiority over others. It describes a narcissistic individual who rationalizes every single actual failure he faces as a psychological triumph (\"spiritual victory\"). A phrase meaning \"relax for a bit\" or \"take it easy\" (阿Q一下, Ā Q yí xià) has also surfaced in modern Chinese language due to the character's nonchalant nature.\n\nThe term Zhao family (赵家人, Zhàojiārén), a derogatory term for China's ruling elite and their families, from the character Mr. Zhao, entered contemporary Chinese language. Originally appeared in a wechat article, the term subsequently became an internet meme widely used by dissident netizens, with numerous variations such as 赵国 (Zhaos' empire, China) and 精赵 (Zhao's spiritual members, 50 Cent Party). The term was thereafter banned by the Communist Party of China.\n\nWhen \"Ah Q\" was first published, the story became very popular. Many Chinese people wondered if Ah Q was based on a real person, partly because at the time few people knew the true identity of the book's author. Gao Yihan said that some individuals believed that Ah Q was based on their own lives. In the 1920s the most common critical sentiment argued that \"Ah Q\" was a masterpiece.\n\nIn 1926 Zheng Zhenduo stated his belief that Lu Xun had finished the story too quickly. In literary terms questioned why Ah Q would die in such a casual manner after the story had already determined that being a revolutionary was already not satisfactory. In response to Zheng, Lu Xun said \"So week after week passed, and inevitably the problem arose whether Ah Q would become a revolutionary or not. To my mind, as long as there was no revolution in China, Ah Q would not turn revolutionary; but once there was one, he would. This was the only fate possible for my Ah Q, and I would not say that he has a dual personality. The first year of the Republic has gone, never to return; but the next time there are reforms, I believe there will be revolutionaries like Ah Q. I only wish that, as people say, I had written about a period in the past, but I fear what I saw was not the past but the future — even as much as from twenty to thirty years from now.\"\n\nGloria Davies, the author of \"The Problematic Modernity of Ah Q,\" said that many Marxist critics criticized \"Ah Q\" because the betrayal of the Communists after the 1927 Northern Expedition \"bore a dangerous resemblance to Ah Q's fate in front of the firing squad.\" Davies further explained that \"[i]t is perhaps also not too far-fetched to suggest that the Marxist dogmatists perceived in \"The True Story of Ah Q\" a realism with sufficient power to undermine even their own adamant and much-vaunted belief in the imminent arrival of a Communist utopia; for not even the most foolhardy dogmatist could ignore the countless acts of political violence and betrayal taking place around him, borne variously of the ruthlessness, ambition, cynicism, fear and ignorance, in all, the darker side of the human condition that Lu Xun had portrayed so vividly in \"The True Story of Ah Q\".\" Lu Xun's last response regarding \"Ah Q\" itself was his reply to Zheng. During the debates on revolutionary literature in 1928 and 1929, Lu Xun decided not to comment on the criticisms of the story.\n\nA leftist critic, Qian Xingcun, wrote an essay \"The Dead Era Of Ah Q\" (死去了的阿Q时代, \"Sǐqùle de Ā Q Shídài\"), published in the March 1, 1928 issue of \"Sun Monthly\" (太阳月刊, Tàiyáng Yuèkān), No. 3. It was reprinted in \"Gémìng Wénxué Lùnzhēng Zīliào Xuǎnbiān\" (革命文学论争资料选编). In it he argued that Lu Xun had belonged to a preceding historical era, the story was not a masterpiece and did not represent the current era. Davies argued that Qian knew he was unable to challenge Lu Xun on literary merits. Furthermore, Davies argues that \"it was all the more important to recognize Lu Xun's works as bearing no relevance to the contemporary situation because they were capable of influencing the reader into misrecognizing social reality.\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1927117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1927117", "title": "Turon National Park", "text": "Turon National Park\n\nTuron National Park is located along a section of the Turon River in central New South Wales, Australia. Proposed as an area worth protecting in 1983, the park was not established until 2002. The park is 150 km north-west of Sydney, approximately 5 km west of Capertee, near Lithgow, New South Wales.\n\nTuron National Park was one of the sites of the 1851 gold rush and remains from this era are still evident. Pasture land cleared in the past remain obvious. Sheoak grows along the river and a variety of gums cover the slopes. A large variety of native birds live within the park and red wallabies spend the day on the sandstone tops and descend at dusk to the valley. The Park is at a relatively high altitude (valley floor at around 750m above sea level, the tops at around 850m) due to the park's location within the Great Dividing Range. Sub-zero temperatures are common in the cooler months.\n\nAccess to the valley floor is difficult for 2WD vehicles and after heavy rainfall even 4WD access is doubtful.\n\nTwo campsites are identified on Wikimapia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1927125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1927125", "title": "Old Country Road", "text": "Old Country Road\n\nOld Country Road is a major east–west thoroughfare through central Nassau County and extending into western Suffolk County on Long Island, New York. It serves many of the major shopping centers in central Nassau County including Roosevelt Field Mall. The road also forms part of the border between the towns of Hempstead and North Hempstead. In Nassau County, Old Country Road is county-maintained as the unsigned County Route 25 (CR 25) west of Round Swamp Road. This road follows the boundary line separating the towns of Hempstead and North Hempstead.\n\nOld Country Road begins as the north–south Herricks Road (unsigned CR 8) curves to the east. It passes by the Nassau County government buildings in Mineola and northern Garden City around its intersection with Mineola Boulevard/Franklin Avenue (unsigned CR 5A). It then crosses Glen Cove Road/Clinton Road (unsigned CR 1), passing by a series of major shopping centers in Carle Place and Westbury including Roosevelt Field Mall and The Mall at the Source. It passes through Hicksville just south of where the concurrency between NY 106 and NY 107 ends. It intersects NY 135 in Plainview and briefly overlaps Round Swamp Road (unsigned CR 110) before continuing into western Suffolk County.\n\nOld Country Road overlaps Round Swamp Road before crossing the Nassau-Suffolk County Line at the same time as the Long Island Expressway at exit 48. The route has a junction with NY 110 in Melville. Between Foxhurst Road and CR 35 the Dix Hills Road bridge goes over both Old Country Road and Northern State Parkway in Dix Hills. A connecting road between Old Country & Dix Hills Road exists. The road ends at a junction with NY 25.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1927126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1927126", "title": "James Collier", "text": "James Collier\n\nJames William Collier (September 28, 1872 – September 28, 1933) was a politician from the U.S. state of Mississippi.\n\nBorn on the Glenwood Plantation near Vicksburg in 1872, he graduated from the University of Mississippi at Oxford in 1894 with a degree in law. Later that year, he was admitted to the Bar association and commenced practice in Vicksburg.\n\nCollier's political career began in 1896, when he was elected to the Mississippi House of Representatives. He remained in that position until 1899. From 1900 to 1909, he served as Warren County's circuit clerk.\n\nRunning successfully as the Democratic Party candidate in the state's eighth congressional district, he took office on March 4, 1909 and went on to serve in eleven congresses (61st-72nd).\n\nCollier chaired the United States House Committee on Ways and Means during the 72nd Congress (1930–1932). He decided not to run for a twelfth term due to controversy over whether candidates should run at-large or by districts.\n\nPresident Franklin D. Roosevelt appointed him to the United States Tariff Commission. He served in that position from March 28, 1933 until his death on September 28, 1933, his 61st birthday. \n\nHe is buried at Cedar Hill Cemetery in Vicksburg.\n\n"}
{"id": "1927143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1927143", "title": "Frazz", "text": "Frazz\n\nFrazz is a syndicated comic strip by Jef Mallett about school custodian Edwin \"Frazz\" Frazier and the school and students where he works. The strip debuted on 2 April 2001, and as of 2019 appears in over 250 newspapers and is read by tens of thousands online each day.\n\nIn the comic, Edwin \"Frazz\" Frazier works as a school janitor at Bryson Elementary School. Frazz mentors the students of the school, particularly Caufield, a genius who hates school because it fails to challenge him. \n\nMallett has explained that the strip is about discovery, and not merely learning. Frazz's job is just the surface. He reads everything from Milton to Hiaasen to bike racing magazines, he writes, he races, he’s an athlete, and he’s a songwriter, discovering the value of a day job. When songwriting started going well, he kept his custodian job because it was the perfect environment for discovery through the energy and interest of the students. Many of the characters are based on his childhood experiences at school, and at home as the child of an educator. Frazz is, at least attitudinally, based on Mallett himself. During a 1996 book tour of schools to promote a children's book he wrote and illustrated, Mallett noticed that the kids wouldn't quiet down for their teachers or principals, but would for the school janitor; he or she was \"the man\", existing on a separate plane between the students and adults.\n\nMallett says he is influenced by Bill Watterson, George Booth, Jim Borgman, and Garry Trudeau.\n\nIn a 2011 interview, Mallet said that his wife, Patty, does the lettering.\n\nFrazz – The eponymous character, Edwin Frazier, is a thirty-year-old songwriter and janitor of Bryson Elementary. A Renaissance man with endless curiosity, Frazz is always ready to teach children and adults more about the world around them. Because he doesn't look down on them, the students look up to him, and he also has the respect of the adults, with the possible exception of Mrs. Olsen, who remembers what a handful he was when he was in third grade. Drawing inspiration from his daily school life, his songs soon become extremely popular. Frazz no longer needs to work because of his hit songs, but keeps working at the school because he loves the kids there. Frazz loves triathlons, bicycling, jogging, swimming, basketball, songwriting, and talking with the students. Among the students, he has a spot in his heart for Caulfield especially, as he is always spurring him to mischief (often unintentionally), and makes excuses for Caulfield's \"bored genius\" behavior. Mallett describes Frazz as being \"me but a lot cooler\", saying he is \"the voice of reason, the voice of experience and, frequently, the voice of temptation.\" \n\nCaulfield – An eight-year-old named by his parents after J. D. Salinger's Holden Caulfield. Caulfield is a genius, but hates school because it fails to challenge him. He spends a lot of time in detention for speaking out in class, but whiles away the hours talking with Frazz. Caulfield chooses a literature-themed costume every Halloween, such as Dorian Gray or Gregor Samsa from \"The Metamorphosis\" , often stumping most of the teachers but being quickly recognized by Frazz. Mallett regards Caulfield as \"the hero of the strip ... He won’t give up that joy of learning for the sake of a test score, for quiet approval, for the easy A\". Caulfield is African-American, and Mallet says it was a \"conscious decision ... to have a Black hero in my strip.\" \n\nMiss Jane Plainwell – The first-grade teacher at Bryson Elementary, and Frazz's romantic interest. Like Frazz, Miss Plainwell is also an athlete. She inspired Mr. Burke to exercise more often, and trained and ran with him in the Detroit 5K. She majored in journalism, and worked at the sports department of a newspaper, before she decided to teach at Bryson Elementary, wanting to work with a \"more mature audience\". She has a pet greyhound named \"Mario\", which she adopted after it retired from racing. Miss Plainwell is modeled on Mallett's wife. \n\nMr. Burke – Mr. Burke is the fourth-grade teacher at Bryson Elementary, described as one \"we all would have loved to see at the front of our classroom\". He frequently plays basketball with Frazz, and these games are used in the strip to allow two adults to talk about \"relatively adult things\" with very little scoring. Burke started out obese, but has slimmed down due to a Frazz-inspired exercise program. \n\nMrs. Olsen – Mrs. Olsen is the third grade teacher at Bryson Elementary, and the teacher from hell. She is frequently the object of tricks and practical jokes by Frazz and Caulfield, and Caulfield's questions/comments in class often drive her to distraction. She had enough of Frazz when he was her student years ago, and would just as soon he leave for good. Another side of her character is seen when Caulfield gets a summer job in her garden (a summer 2005 sequence in \"Frazz\") and they come to have a sense of respect for each other. She has a sibling, as she also has a niece. She is also of Scandinavian (probably Norwegian) descent, as she once cooked lutefisk for her class. She is shown to be a hero at heart with the story arc starting the week of 17 June 2013, although she wants to keep intact her public image of a crusty exterior and unsympathetic attitude. She is a composite of several of Mallett's teachers and one of Mallett's wife's teachers.\n\nMr. Spaetzle – The principal of Bryson Elementary. Mallet describes him as \"frazzled... a good man who's reached his limits... and he aged up into administration.\" He craves the adoration the students heap on Frazz, and wants to be just like him. He wore nerdy glasses all throughout high school.\n\nCoach Hacker – The physical education teacher, interested only in team sports, with no interest in participatory athletics. Coach Hacker was an All-Big 10 defensive end in the 1970s, but now is out-of shape and has been married five times. According to Mallett, he is \"dim, a little mean, so closed down\", and \"doesn't understand Frazz any more than he understands how to work a combination lock\". Mallet has intentionally moved to including Coach Hacker very little, saying \"every time Hacker showed up, the joke was the same each time... plus with all the CTE brain issues around football, it's not funny.\" \n\nMr. Uhrmann – A substitute teacher for Mrs. Olsen who is unflustered by Caulfield. He is described by Frazz as the only one of Caulfield's substitute teachers not to \"throw up his hands and quit by 9:30\". Caulfield calls him \"The Uhrmanator\".\n\nMrs. Trevino – The second-grade teacher at Bryson Elementary. She cooks gorditas for her class every Cinco de Mayo. Mrs. Trevino has been phased away from the strip now that Ms. Plainwell (Mrs. Trevino's former best friend) and Frazz are in a relationship.\n\nClutch – Frazz's friend & fellow runner/cyclist. Works as an emergency room nurse. Clutch has been phased away from the strip now that Ms. Plainwell and Frazz are in a relationship.\n\nMany of the characters or locations in the strip are references to real-life people whom Mallett respects or other aspects of his life. In a 2008 interview, Mallett said that Bryson Elementary is named after one of his favorite authors, Bill Bryson.\n\n\nBecause of similarities in calligraphic style, Frazz's physical appearance, station in life as a brilliant underachiever, and his age relative to Calvin of \"Calvin and Hobbes\", jokes and rumors arose that Mallett was actually Bill Watterson. In a May 2006 series of strips, Frazz and Caulfield invent a game called \"Bedlamball\" that, like \"Calvinball\", has no apparent rules or scoring. Mallett was flattered by the comparison and acknowledges Watterson's influence, but denies that he is Watterson or that \"Frazz\" is intended as a copy or replacement of, or sequel to, \"Calvin and Hobbes\". In the foreword to \"Live at Bryson Elementary\", \"Washington Post\" columnist Gene Weingarten wrote, \"[The critics are] focusing not only on hair (Frazz's frizz), but also on his station in life: a brilliant underachiever. Well, Jef assures me that any similarity is unintentional.\"\n\nIn a piece praising the strip, \"Los Angeles Times\" columnist Charles Solomon said, \"The humor and calligraphic drawing in 'Frazz' reflect Watterson’s influence, but the strip doesn’t feel like a pallid imitation.\"\n\nMallett has alluded to the speculation several times in the strip. In a September 2003 Sunday strip an introverted student tells Frazz that she wants to be famous, and believes it is possible to be famous for one's work, without exposing your private life to the public eye. Frazz says, \"Good point. Like J.D. Salinger or Bill Watterson.\" Though she's never heard of them. As part of a brief story arc in November 2006, Frazz tells Caulfield \"I also used to be Bill Watterson's personal assistant.\" Also, in a story arc where Mallett corrects a mistake in attribution of a quote by Edison, Caulfield compares cartoonists to gods. Frazz replies that that might be a bit of a stretch, but Caulfield replies, \"What about that Calvin and Hobbes guy?\" and Frazz replies, \"Okay, him, yeah.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1927149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1927149", "title": "Fred Alexander", "text": "Fred Alexander\n\nFrederick Beasley Alexander (August 14, 1880 – March 3, 1969) was an American tennis player in the early 20th century. He won the singles title at the 1908 Australasian Championships and six double titles at Grand Slam events.\n\nThe right-handed Alexander in 1908 became the first foreigner to win the singles title at the Australasian/Australian Championships, the amateur precursor to the Australian Open. He then teamed with the man he defeated in the final, Alfred Dunlop, to win the doubles.\n\nAlexander attended Princeton University and won the Intercollegiate doubles championship in 1900 and the singles in 1901. Between 1904 and 1918, he was a U.S. top ten player at year's end six times. He was a finalist in doubles at the U.S. Championships, precursor to the US Open, seven straight times beginning in 1905. He and partner Harold Hackett won the U.S. doubles each year from 1907 to 1910. At age 37, Alexander won again in 1917, partnering with Harold Throckmorton. In the singles, Alexander reached the all comers final in 1908, beating William Clothier before losing to Beals Wright in straight sets.\n\nHe competed in the USA Davis Cup team in 1908 which lost the final against Australia at the Albert Ground, Melbourne. Alexander lost both his singles matches against Norman Brookes and Anthony Wilding as well as the doubles match against these two together with his partner Beals Wright.\n\nIn 1915 he authored \"How to Play Lawn Tennis\", part of the \"Spalding's athletic library\" series.\n\nAlexander was inducted into the International Tennis Hall of Fame in 1961.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1927154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1927154", "title": "Bean Station, Tennessee", "text": "Bean Station, Tennessee\n\nBean Station is a city in Grainger County, Tennessee. As of the 2010 census, the population of Bean Station was 2,826.\nBean Station is located at the junction of U.S. Route 11W and U.S. Route 25E, in the easternmost part of Grainger County. It is considered a commuter town for the city of Morristown in neighboring Hamblen County.\n\nBean Station is part of both the Knoxville Metropolitan Statistical Area and the Morristown Metropolitan Statistical Area.\n\nBean Station was settled as a frontier outpost established in the late 1780s by the sons of William Bean, one of the earliest settlers in Tennessee. The land had likely been observed by Bean while on a long hunting excursion with Daniel Boone years prior. The outpost was situated at the intersection of the Old Wilderness Road, a north–south pathway that roughly followed what is present-day U.S. Route 25E, and the Old Stage Road, an east–west pathway that roughly followed what is now U.S. Route 11W. This heavily trafficked crossroads location made Bean Station an important stopover for early travelers, with taverns and inns were operating at the station by the early 1800s.\nDuring the Civil War, the Battle of Bean's Station took place in the westernmost area of the community on December 14, 1863. Confederate Army General, James Longstreet, attempted to capture Bean Station en route to Rogersville after failing to drive Union forces out of Knoxville. Bean Station was held by a contingent of Union soldiers under the command of General James M. Shackelford. After two days of gruesome fighting, Union forces were forced to retreat.\n\nIn the post-Civil War era, a businessman named Samuel Tate constructed a large Victorian-style luxury hotel just west of Bean Station that became the main focus of a resort known as Tate Springs. Around the late 1870s, the hotel was purchased by Captain Thomas Tomlinson, who would transform the property into a vast resort that advertised the supposed healing powers of its mineral spring’s water. During its heyday, the resort complex included over three-dozen buildings, a park, and an 18-hole golf course. The resort had attracted some of the wealthiest people in America during this time. The resort declined during the Great Depression, and the hotel and most of its outbuildings have since been demolished after a major fire damaged the main hotel structure. The Tate Springs Springhouse and its elaborate Victorian gazebo still stand just off U.S. Route 11W near Bean Station Elementary School.\n\nThe construction of Cherokee Dam by the Tennessee Valley Authority several miles downstream along the Holston River in the early 1940s had drastically altered the city's layout. Many citizens were relocated and many houses and other structures were demolished or moved. A large portion of the community was impounded, and at least one historical structure had to be relocated.\n\nOn May 13, 1972, 14 people were killed in a head-on collision between a Greyhound bus and a tractor-trailer on U.S. Route 11W near Bean Station.”\n\nBean Station was incorporated into a city in November of 1996.\n\nOn April 5, 2018, Southeastern Provisions, a cattle slaughterhouse near Bean Station, was raided by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE). 11 workers were arrested and 86 more were detained, all of whom were suspected of residing in the United States unlawfully. At the time, the raid was reportedly the largest workplace raid in United States history. In September 2018, James Brantley, the owner of Southeastern Provisions, was found guilty of multiple state and federal crimes, including tax evasion, wire fraud, employing immigrants not authorized to work in the US, and many other workplace violations, and was sentenced to 18 months in federal prison and was forced to pay over 1.3 million dollars to the IRS, and 1.42 million in restitution.\n\nBean Station is located in rural easternmost Grainger County, where it borders the unincorporated community of Mooresburg at the line between Grainger and Hawkins counties. The city is situated in the Richland Valley, also known as Mooresburg Valley, with Clinch Mountain to the north and Cherokee Lake to the south. In the western of portion of Bean Station adjacent to the former Tate Springs Resort, two major highways merge, with U.S. Route 25E entering from the northwest, and U.S. Route 11W entering from the southwest. From this point, US-25E leads over Clinch Mountain to Tazewell in Claiborne County, while US-11W runs west through the Richland Valley to Rutledge, the seat of Grainger County. The highways split again just south of Bean Station's business district, with 11W bypassing the business district and continining northeastward to Rogersville, and 25E continuing southward across Cherokee Lake into Hamblen County, to Morristown.\n\nTennessee State Route 375 (also known as Lakeshore Drive) also intersects US-25E south of the business district, which traverses into several of Bean Station’s affluent lakefront neighborhoods.\n\nAccording to the U.S. Census Bureau, the city of Bean Station has an area of , of which , or 0.01%, are water. The city limits include Wyatt Village, located next to an arm of Cherokee Lake along US-25E south of downtown. The city limits stretch along US-25E to Olen R. Marshall Bridge across Cherokee Lake, and along US-11W to Bean Station Elementary School.\n\nAs of the 2010 United States Census, there were 2,826 people, 1,149 households, and 827 families residing in the city. 96.8% were White, 0.6% Black or African American, 0.5% Native American, 0.1% Asian and 0.7% of two or more races. 2.3% were Hispanic or Latino (of any race).\n\nThe average household size was 2.46 and the average family size was 2.88. 25% of households had children under the age of 18 living with them, 51.8% were married couples living together, 6.3% had a male householder with no wife present, and 13.9% were female householders with no husband present. 28% of households were non-families.\n\nThe median age of residents in city was 47.8. 21.7% of residents were under the age of 18, and 16.2% were age 65 years or older.\n\n72% of the city’s population commute outside of Grainger County for work. The average commute time for Bean Station residents is 24 minutes.\n\nIn its retail and commercial markets, Bean Station has a slim selection of restaurants, stores and an IGA Market, the only grocery store in Bean Station.\n\nEconomic growth has appeared to stagnate in the city based on the lack of a proper wastewater treatment system.\n\nBean Station is home to a public golf course, a Clayton Homes manufacturing facility, and numerous fireworks stores. A blasting rock quarry located near U.S. Route 25E was closed in 2017.\n\nBean Station uses the mayor-council government system, which was established in 1996 when the city was incorporated. It is governed locally by a five-member Board of Mayor and Aldermen.\n\nThe citizens elect the mayor and four aldermen to four-year terms. The board elects a vice mayor from among the four aldermen.\n\nBean Station is represented in the 35th District of the Tennessee House of Representatives by Jerry Sexton, a Republican.\n\nIt is represented in the 8th District of the Tennessee Senate by Frank Niceley, also a Republican.\n\nElementary students attend Bean Station Elementary School, located in the westernmost part of the city, serving Grades PK-6. Students attend Rutledge Middle School in Grades 7–8. High school students in Bean Station, like all of Grainger County except the Washburn area, attend Grainger High School in Rutledge.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1927159", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1927159", "title": "Little Wood River (Idaho)", "text": "Little Wood River (Idaho)\n\nLittle Wood River is a river in south-central Idaho in the United States. It is a tributary of the Malad River, which in turn is tributary to the Snake River and Columbia River.\n\nThe Little Wood River originates in the Pioneer Mountains of northern Blaine County, then flows south through Little Wood Reservoir near Carey. Below the reservoir the river flows south into Lincoln County, past Richfield, and then west, past Shoshone, after which it enters Gooding County. Just west of Gooding, the Little Wood River joins the Big Wood River to form the Malad River.\n\nThe Little Wood River is the key source of irrigation water for eastern Blaine County and most of Lincoln County. Its water was a major attraction for the region's first permanent settlement at Carey. The river's water flow is regulated by reservoirs and affected by diversions of water into irrigation canals.\n\nVariant names of the Little Wood River, according to the USGS, include McArthurs River and Wood River.\n\n"}
{"id": "1927162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1927162", "title": "Capertee, New South Wales", "text": "Capertee, New South Wales\n\nCapertee is a village 45 km north of Lithgow, New South Wales, Australia. It is on an elevated site (800 metres) above the Capertee Valley. In 2016, the town had a population of 145 people. Situated on the Castlereagh Highway (previously known as the Mudgee Road) between Lithgow and Mudgee, Capertee is surrounded by National Parks and grazing land. Principal employment is in coal mining, farming and tourism related services. The Capertee Valley forms a part of the catchment area of the Hawkesbury River.\n\nPrior to European settlement, the Caperteee district was occupied by the Wiradjuri people. The first European explorer to traverse the district was James Blackman, who journeyed through to the Mudgee area in 1821. Sheep properties were later established in the area during the 1840s, producing quality wool.\n\nThe town itself dates from the time of the establishment of the railway station in 1882. The station and nearby station master's residence date from this period while several other extant buildings date from the late 19th and early 20th century. Henry Lawson mentions the wild beauty of the Capertee area in his poem \"Song of the Old Bullock Driver\" which was published in \"Verses, Popular and Humorous\" (1900).\n\nFrom 1882 Capertee was a temporary terminus of a railway branch line from Wallerawang on the main Western railway line. When the line was extended to Mudgee, there was no flat ground on which to build a crossing loop, so Capertee ended up with an unusual dead-end crossing siding instead. The line still operates although the railway station is closed.\n\nCapertee has a public school, police station, bush fire brigade hall, community hall (Progress Hall), public house (Royal Hotel), public telephone, two (rare) fibro constructed churches, and a combined garage/shop/post office. A community market is held on the third Sunday of each month in the Progress Hall.\n\nCapertee is located in an area which is popular with landscape painters, photographers, bird watchers and walkers. In the (2007) US published book \"Fifty Places to Go Birding Before You Die\", author, Chris Santella lists Capertee Valley as one of only two locations in Australia selected in his top 50 world bird watching locations. Bird watchers are attracted by the diverse birdlife in the area. One \"destination\" bird is the rare regent honeyeater (\"Xanthomyza phrygia\"). Pearsons Lookout located 2 km south of the town offers views of Capertee valley.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1927170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1927170", "title": "Australian Speleological Federation", "text": "Australian Speleological Federation\n\nFormed in 1956, the Australian Speleological Federation Inc. (ASF) is the national body representing those interested in the protection and sustainability of Australia's cave and karst environments. It has approximately 850 members across 28 constituent bodies throughout all Australian states and territories. https://www.caves.org.au/ \nThe ASF represents Australia within the International Union of Speleology, which is linked with UNESCO. \n\nThe Federation is registered as an Environmental Organisation by the Department of the Environment and Energy, Canberra. The ASF maintains a Public Fund, authorised under the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 item 6.1.1, subsection 30–55(1) to receive tax-deductible donations for its environmental purposes.\n\nASF has an outstanding and exceptional track record in environmental protection. Many members have largely recreational interests but have joined the Federation to support its environmental objectives; others have primarily management, historical, scientific or academic interests in caves and karst. In all cases the Federation’s policies and guidelines influence the environmental practices of all cave users i.e. managers, recreational cavers, tourists, scientists and adventurous visitors. Throughout Australia, codes developed by ASF e.g. Ethics, Minimum Impact, Cave Classification, Documentation, Cave Diving & Safety have been incorporated in land management plans both for caves and for broader karst parks.\n\nASF publishes Helictite, the Journal of Australasian Cave Research. One of only 4 or 5 such refereed scientific journals in the world, this publication has improved understanding of caves and karst, and in turn the standard of interpretation provided to the public by guides and rangers.\n\n· \"To safeguard and protect the natural environment, specifically the cave and karst environment of Australia\"\n\n· \"To gather and disseminate information, develop and promote policies, foster and publish research, and provide education and advice to the Australian community on conserving Australia’s karst resources.\"\n\n· \"To bring together and represent persons interested in caves and karst in Australia and the attainment of the Federation’s aims\"\n\n· \"To foster speleology in all of its aspects\"\n\n\"To promote conservation and sustainable management of Australia’s caves and karst\"\n\nASF has contributed to protection of the cave and karst environment by:\n\n· Consulting on environmental management issues to Commonwealth, NSW, Tasmanian, Victorian, SA, WA and NT government instrumentalities;\n\n· Publishing a respected, biennial peer-refereed journal reporting scientific research (\"“Helictite”\")\n\n· Developing an electronic database of over 10,000 cave and karst features in Australia;\n\n· Cooperating with or lobbying other bodies for better educational and conservation practices e.g. Australian Geological Survey Organisation, Australian Army, Karst & Geodiversity Unit.\n\n· Through its tax-deductible Public Fund and occasional government grants e.g. from the Natural Heritage Trust, ASF conducts programs and projects to raise community awareness of karst-related environmental issues, especially those of national or regional significance. ASF do not receive any ongoing public funding, and has no paid staff and the members act in a purely voluntary capacity. In addition, by the same means and by persuasion and example it encourages member societies and individuals to undertake practical cave conservation and protection measures in co-operation with owners and managers.\n\nASF and members played a leading role in environmental issues relating to caves and karst at Colong, Bungonia and Yessabah (NSW), Gordon-Franklin, Precipitous Bluff, Exit Cave and Mt Cripps (Tas) Mt Etna (Qld), The Potholes (Vic) and Sellicks Hill (SA). ASF took court action objecting to mining exploration at Cape Range (WA) and Mt Cripps (Tas) and Timor, NSW. As well, ASF was retained as consultant on specific management strategy issues at Jenolan (NSW), Nullarbor Plain (SA/WA), Yallingup (WA), Hastings Cave and Exit Cave (Tas), Cutta Cutta (NT), and elsewhere.\n\nIn the last few years ASF has:\n\n· Formally conducted objections in Mining Warden Courts to mining leases at Cape Range (WA), Mt Cripps (Tas)\n\n· Made submissions to land managers on karst environmental issues at Yanchep National Park (WA), Borenore Caves (NSW), Jenolan Caves (NSW), Hastings Caves (Tas), Mt Field National Park (Tas), Regional Forest Agreement process (Tas), Cooleman (NSW).\n\n· Fenced off remnants of karst vegetation (Cliefden NSW; Canobla, NSW)\n\n· Conducted a rural community workshop on karst on private landholdings (Stuart Town)\n\n· Been an invited participant at an IUCN seminar on limestone quarrying (Bathurst, NSW)\n\n· Contributed to an educational kit published by the Australian Geological Survey Organisation\n\n· Persuaded the Australian Army adventure training school to rewrite its training manual to include a conservation policy supplied by ASF (Hobart and Kapooka)\n\n· Co-sponsored Limestone Coast – First International Workshop on RAMSAR Subterranean Wetlands, Naracoorte Caves World Heritage Area 2004\n\n· Initiated dialogue with the aboriginal community, including hosting a training session relating to recognition and conservation of indigenous sites on karst and in caves\n\n· Provided funding for an appeal to the NSW Land and Environment Court relating to a limestone quarry approval near Timor Caves, NSW\n\n· Organised the 14th International Symposium and field trips on Vulcanospeleology for the International Union of Speleology (UIS) Commission on Volcanic Caves, 2010\n\nThe Australian Speleological Federation Cave Diving Group (ASF-CDG) organises cave diving exploration across the Australian continent bring together cave divers from ASF state clubs. The ASF-CDG impresses upon trip leaders to bring the ethics of environmentalism to cave diving, promote science, mapping and safe exploration.\n\nA measure of the high regard and respect held for ASF and organised speleology generally in Australia is the Federation's representation on Advisory Boards and Committees throughout the country. ASF had statutory representation on the old Board of Jenolan Caves Reserve Trust (NSW) and its Speleological Advisory Committee, and on the Karst Management Advisory Committee of DECC.\n\nSeven ASF members have received awards in the Order of Australia honours list (OAM and AM), specifically citing their contribution to knowledge and conservation of cave environments. Another was runner-up in the BHP Environmentalist of the Year award, and yet another received a Rolex award for excellence in conservation.\n\n\nA current list of publications can be found at http://www.caves.org.au/publications\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1927172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1927172", "title": "Hochelaga (village)", "text": "Hochelaga (village)\n\nHochelaga was a St. Lawrence Iroquoian 16th century fortified village on or near Mount Royal in present-day Montreal, Quebec, Canada. Jacques Cartier arrived by boat on October 2, 1535; he visited the village on the following day. He was greeted well by the Iroquoians, and named the mountain he saw nearby \"Mount Royal\". Several names in and around Montreal and the Hochelaga Archipelago can be traced back to him.\n\nA stone marker commemorating the former village was placed in 1925 on land adjacent to McGill University. It is believed to be in the vicinity of the village visited by Cartier in 1535. The site of the marker is designated a National Historic Site of Canada.\n\nThe name of the village survives in Hochelaga-Maisonneuve, the name of a neighbourhood of Montreal; a variant spelling survives in Montreal's contemporary Osheaga Festival.\n\nMost linguists accept the word Hochelaga as a French corruption of an Iroquoian term — either \"osekare\", meaning \"beaver path\" or \"beaver dam\", or \"osheaga\", meaning \"big rapids\", in reference to the nearby Lachine Rapids. An alternative explanation has been proposed in which \"osheaga\" means \"people of the shaking hands\"; in some versions of this story, the Iroquoian people were bewildered by Cartier waving his hands wildly to attract their attention as he first approached the settlement in his boat, while in others, they were bewildered by his European custom of greeting them with a handshake. These latter explanations are favoured by the Mohawk people further downriver at Kahnawake, but are not easily supported by the Mohawk language's significant dissimilarities from what is known of the related but not identical Laurentian language, which was spoken by the Iroquoian people at Hochelaga.\n\nThe primary source of documentation that allows us to appreciate both the configuration and position of this village is \"Bref récit et succincte narration de le navigation faite en MDXXXV et MDXXXVI\", which Cartier gave to King Francis I of France in 1545. We know of a plan titled \"La Terra de Hochelaga nella Nova Francia\", which illustrates, in the European manner of the period, Cartier's visit. Giacomo Gastaldi illustrated Hochelaga in the third volume of \"Delle navigationi et viaggi\", a work done in Venice between 1550 and 1556 by Giovanni Battista Ramusio. The perfect, regular arrangement of the houses, conforming to the urban ideal of the Italian Renaissance, as well as the boards covering the village's palisade, were probably his own fabrications. In fact, if the plan faithfully illustrates the notes of the French explorer, it offers little resemblance to ethnohistorical reality. A reproduction of \"La Terra de Hochelaga\" by Paul-Émile Borduas decorates the walls of the Grand Chalet of Mount Royal Park.\nThe town, surrounded by a wooden palisade, had around fifty houses made of wood and bark, mostly longhouses, both rectangular and rounded. the population is estimated to have been approximately 3,000 inhabitants. It was doubtlessly destroyed afterwards, as it was not mentioned by Jacques Cartier on his return visit to the island in 1541. He spoke about two villages, but only one, Tutonaguy, was named. War, possibly with Stadacona, has been suggested to be the cause of the disappearance of Hochelaga. The inhabitants' disappearance has spawned several theories, including their migration westward toward the shores of the Great Lakes, devastating wars with the Iroquois tribes to the south or the Hurons to the west, or the impact of Old World diseases. However, according to Archéobec, the abandonment of the village following a cycle of land exhaustion would have been the main reason. At the time of Samuel de Champlain's arrival, both Algonquins and Mohawks hunted in the Saint Lawrence Valley and conducted raids, but neither had founded any permanent settlements.\n\nThe custom of moving villages is a possible explanation as to why the exact emplacement of the Iroquois settlement remains a mystery in the present day, despite the numerous hypotheses that locate it close to Mount Royal. William Douw Lighthall maintained that Hochelaga was located at the Dawson site, discovered in 1860 close to McGill University. The site appears to correspond to a village preceding the foundation of Ville-Marie by one or two centuries, but which lacked a palisade and seemed to be too cramped. Another proposed location is Outremont, north of the mountain, which would be more likely if Cartier had arrived via the Rivière des Prairies. The urbanist Pierre Larouche, based on the topometric data deduced from the Gastaldi illustration, has proposed that the village was situated on the summit of the mountain. This hypothesis is not well-supported, as \"La Terra de Hochelaga\" is a second-hand reconstruction. Furthermore, Cartier states clearly that the mountain was \"adjacent to their said village\", that Hochelaga was \"close to and adjoining a mountain\", and that he went to Mount Royal a distance of a quarter-league of the site, the distance that, in fact, separates the basin of Mount Royal from the surrounding hills dominating it. Archaeological excavations undertaken recently on the summit of the mountain, around the basin, and in the Jeanne-Mance Park east of Mount Royal have come up empty. The exact location of Hochelaga remains unknown.\n\nThe arrival of Jacques Cartier in Hochelaga in 1535, at the foot of what is now known as Mount Royal, was an episode especially consequential to the history of New France in his three exploration voyages to the West Indies. Under a mandate from King Francis I to find a waterway to Cathay (China) and to Cipango (Japan), he reached Stadacona (the future site of Québec City) at the end of the summer of 1535. Encouraged, he quickly continued further into the interior, but the rapids surrounding what is now the Island of Montreal blocked his route. He would then visit Hochelaga, which he described in \"Bref récit\", a brief account of his second voyage to the Saint Lawrence Valley. In 1611, the European explorer Samuel de Champlain visited the area. In 1642, the village of Ville-Marie was founded by Paul de Chomedey, sieur de Maisonneuve, but the inhabitants gradually dropped that name, preferring to use instead the name of the island upon which the colony was established, \"Montreal\", a toponym derived from \"mont royal\", the French name of Mount Royal.\n\nFor a long time, it was considered obvious that Jacques Cartier had continuously followed the Saint Lawrence River; the rapids he mentioned were identified as the Lachine Rapids. Some think his description better corresponds to the rapids in the Rivière des Prairies at Sault-au-Récollet. Close examination of historical documentation in the 20th century raised the possibility that before the European arrival, the Rivière des Prairies was the usual waterway used by the indigenous tribes, as it was much less dangerous than the Saint Lawrence River with its rapids. It constituted a more direct waterway connecting to the upstream Rivière des Outaouais. Therefore, it is possible that Cartier traveled to Hochelaga via this river. Furthermore, the three rapids described by Cartier on a subsequent expedition are easier to locate on the Rivière des Prairies, the so-called \"river of three saults\", than on the Saint Lawrence River. Aristide Beaugrand-Champagne, the architect of the Grand Chalet of Mount Royal Park, wrote in detail about this.\n\nOn October 2, 1535, Jacques Cartier and his troupe arrived in the vicinity of Hochelaga. As night fell, he withdrew with his men aboard the boats. Early on the morning of October 3, along with his men and twenty marines, he undertook on foot the worn path to Hochelaga. After walking about two leagues (about 11 km or 6 miles), he saw the village surrounded by hills and cultivated fields of corn. This appeared to him much more impressive than Stadacona. He writes: \"And here within the countryside is situated and sits the said town of Hochelaga, near and joining a mountain that is, around it, ploughed and very fertile, from on top of which one can see very far.\"\n\nHe declared that the mountain would be named Mount Royal, in honour of King Francis I of France, as was customary in that period. Cartier then visited Hochelaga, and notes its organization: \"The said town is all in a circle, enclosed in wood, in three ranks, in the manner of a pyramid, crossed at the top, having a row perpendicular to it all. And this town there is only one door and entrance. There are within this town roughly fifty houses, each about fifty steps long, and…\"\n\nHe then gives a detailed description of the interior of a longhouse and how people lived in it: \"…in each one of them, there are several hearths and several rooms.\" In the center of each house was a common room, where the indigenous people built a fire and lived as a community.\nWhen the tour of the village was over, Cartier and his companions were then guided up Mount Royal, probably on the back of a man, according to a custom of courtesy he mentions further down. The mountain was \"distant from the village by about a quarter-league\". Once atop the summit of one the hills comprising the mount, Cartier declared: \"We can see the said river, other than where we left our barques, where there is a rapid, the most impetuous it is given to see, one which is not possible for us to pass.\"\n\nOnce the visit was over, Cartier and his men returned to their boats: \"We withdrew to our boats, not without a great number of the said people, a part of which, that when they saw our people tired, took them upon themselves, as on a horse, and carried them.\"\n\nCartier's description suggests that the village of Hochelaga was linked to the occupation of the area by the St. Lawrence Iroquoians, a group of Indigenous sedentary farmers who inhabited the St. Lawrence Valley between 1200 and 1600 CE.\n\nJacques Cartier's exploration of the West Indies did not go unnoticed in Venice, in particular by Giovanni Battista Ramusio, statesman and secretary of the Council of Ten. A career diplomat, his role as ambassador brought him to numerous European countries. Ramusio, who was seven when the Genovese Christopher Columbus reached the Americas in 1492, considered the discovery of new lands as being the most important undertaking of the time. In effect, the republic was facing a grave problem accessing the Indian Subcontinent, since the Ottoman Turks had taken Constantinople in 1453. Ramusio obtained a copy of \"Bref récit\", a memoir that Jacques Cartier had given to King Francis I of France in 1545, and subsequently proceeded to describe Cartier's explorations in the third volume of his work, \"Delle navigationi et viaggi\". The 1556 edition contains assorted illustrations by Giacomo Gastaldi, including \"La Terra de Hochelaga Nella Nova Francia\", describing Cartier's visit on Mount Royal (\"Monte Real\" on the map) in the European style of the time.\n\nOne of the paintings in the Mount Royal Chalet is a reproduction of \"La Terra de Hochelaga\" by Paul-Émile Borduas, a member of the Refus Global.\n\nThe film Hochelaga, Land of Souls (2017) depicts the arrival of the Cartier expedition at Hochelaga, as well as another fictionalized events occurring at the site of the village over the centuries.\n\n"}
{"id": "1927175", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1927175", "title": "Harrogate, Tennessee", "text": "Harrogate, Tennessee\n\nHarrogate is a city in Claiborne County, Tennessee, United States. It is adjacent to Cumberland Gap National Historical Park.\n\nThe community has been known as \"Harrogate\" since the 19th century, but did not incorporate as a city by that name until 1992. As of the 2010 census, its population was 4,389.\n\nBefore incorporation, the United States Census Bureau treated Harrogate as a census-designated place (CDP) called Harrogate-Shawanee. At the time of the 2000 census the CDP had a population of 2,865.\n\nHarrogate is located at (37.811324, -82.806780).\nAccording to the United States Census Bureau, the city has a total area of , all land.\n\nAs of the census of 2000, there were 2,865 people, 1,032 households, and 747 families residing in the Harrogate-Shawanee CDP. The population density was 688.3 inhabitants per square mile (265.9/km²). There were 1,091 housing units at an average density of 262.1 per square mile (101.3/km²). The racial makeup of the CDP was 94.73% White, 0.94% African American, 0.42% Native American, 0.94% Asian, 0.17% from other races, and 2.79% from two or more races. Hispanics or Latinos of any race were 0.52% of the population.\n\nThere were 1,032 households out of which 27.5% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 56.4% were married couples living together, 12.8% had a female householder with no husband present, and 27.6% were non-families. 23.2% of all households were made up of individuals and 9.9% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.40 and the average family size was 2.83.\n\nThe age distribution was 20.5% under 18, 14.7% from 18 to 24, 24.2% from 25 to 44, 25.1% from 45 to 64, and 15.6% who were 65 or older. The median age was 38 years. For every 100 females, there were 84.7 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 83.2 males.\n\nThe median income for a household in the CDP was $34,227, and the median income for a family was $44,492. Males had a median income of $36,000 versus $25,036 for females. The per capita income for the CDP was $15,585. About 7.2% of families and 20.2% of the population were below the poverty line, including 17.0% of those under age 18 and 5.5% of those age 65 or over.\n\nWhen Harrogate first incorporated the city population was approximately 2,700, but since that time the population has increased as a result of annexations. As of 2003, the United States Census Bureau estimated the city population at 3,974. In 2006 the estimated population was 4,425, making Harrogate the largest city in Claiborne County.\n\nLincoln Memorial University, a private four-year co-educational liberal arts college, is located in Harrogate. Its Abraham Lincoln Library and Museum houses a large collection of memorabilia relating to the school's namesake, Abraham Lincoln and the Civil War. Lincoln Memorial is the parent institution of the Debusk College of Osteopathic Medicine, the first osteopathic medical school in Tennessee.\n\nPublic schools in Harrogate are Ellen Myers Elementary, H.Y. Livesay Middle School and Forge Ridge Consolidated School.\n\nCumberland Gap High School is located in Harrogate but has a Cumberland Gap address.\nThis is also where Tri-State Christian Academy is located down Arthur road.\n\nThe Daniel Boone Arboretum in Harrogate contains over 50 labeled species of native trees.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1927198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1927198", "title": "Katō Yoshiaki", "text": "Katō Yoshiaki\n\nA retainer of Toyotomi Hideyoshi, he fought in the battle of Shizugatake in 1583, and soon became known as one of the \"shichi-hon-yari\" (七本槍), or Seven Spears of Shizugatake, Hideyoshi's seven most trusted and experienced generals.\n\nAfter Hideyoshi's death, Katō fought alongside Tokugawa Ieyasu. Following the important victory at Sekigahara, Tokugawa doubled Katō's fief from 100,000 \"koku\" to 200,000. For a time, he was lord of Aizu.\n\nHe was involved in the bitter naval battles fought off the coast of southern Korea during the 1st and 2nd Korean Campaign, many of which went in favor of the Korean navy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1927207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1927207", "title": "Recusatio", "text": "Recusatio\n\nA recusatio is a poem (or part thereof) in which the poet says he is supposedly unable or disinclined to write the type of poem which he originally intended to, and instead writes in a different style.\n\nThe recusatio is something of a \"topos\" in ancient and Renaissance literature. Its use has often been interpreted as a \"persona\" deliberately adopted by the poet, allowing him to assert himself in the guise of ironic self-deprecation or feigned humility.\n\nThe topos of recusatio was introduced by Callimachus in his Aetia fr. 1.21-4, and employed in his refusal to write a major epic, preferring slighter poetic forms. Anacreon’s work contains many similar examples.\n\nIn Augustan Rome, pressure to write an epic celebration of the emperor’s achievement was felt by almost all poets. Virgil in his Eclogue VI.3ff offered an exemplary recusatio, which at the same time held out the prospect of his ‘advancing’ to epic in the fullness of time. By contrast Propertius (I. 7ff; II.34 lines 59-66; III.3 lines 39ff) and Horace (Ode I.6; Ode II.12) made more permanent objections; while Ovid (Amores I.1; II.18 ) also presented himself as an elegist unable to reach to the heights of traditional epic.\n\nIn the Silver Age, recusatio was used by poets to write epics but to avoid the subject of emperors themselves by disclaiming their ability to write of imperial deeds. The third century AD saw recusatio employed again by Nemesianus in his Cynegetica (lines 15 - 47)\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1927208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1927208", "title": "Tom Conway", "text": "Tom Conway\n\nTom Conway (born Thomas Charles Sanders, 15 September 1904 – 22 April 1967) was a British film, television and radio actor remembered for playing private detectives (including The Falcon, Sherlock Holmes, Bulldog Drummond and The Saint) and psychiatrists.\n\nConway is perhaps best known for playing \"The Falcon\" in ten of the series' entries, taking over for his brother, George Sanders, in \"The Falcon's Brother\" (1942), in which they both starred. He is also well known for his appearance in several Val Lewton films.\n\nConway was born in St. Petersburg, Russia. His younger brother was fellow actor George Sanders (1906–1972). Their younger sister, Margaret Sanders, was born in 1912. At the outbreak of the Russian Revolution (1917), the family moved to England, where Conway was educated at Bedales School and Brighton College. He travelled to Northern Rhodesia, where he worked in mining and ranching, then returned to England, appearing in several plays with the Manchester Repertory Company and performing on BBC Radio.\n\nWhen he joined his brother George in Hollywood, Conway became a contract player for MGM. During this time he changed his last name from Sanders to Conway after losing a friendly coin toss to his brother. He had small roles in \"Waterloo Bridge\" (1940), with only his voice heard, \"Sky Murder\" (1941) and \"The Wild Man of Borneo\" (1941). He had a bigger part in \"The Trial of Mary Dugan\" (1941) then was back to small parts in \"Free and Easy\" (1941), \"The Bad Man\" (1941), \"The People vs. Dr. Kildare\" (1941), and \"Lady Be Good\" (1941).\n\nConway was a villain in \"Tarzan's Secret Treasure\" (1941), \"Mr. and Mrs. North\" (1941) and \"Rio Rita\" (1942). He was a murder suspect in \"Grand Central Murder\" (1942) and had an uncredited bit in \"Mrs. Miniver\" (1942).\n\nAt RKO, Conway's brother George Sanders had starred in three popular \"B\" movies as \"The Falcon\". Sanders was getting sick of the role so Conway took over as \"The Falcon's Brother\" (1942), co-starring with Sanders for one film (Sanders' character was killed off). RKO signed him to a long term contract.\n\nConway followed this with an excellent role in \"Cat People\" (1942), the first of producer Val Lewton's legendary horror cycle. It was an even bigger hit than \"Falcon's Brother\".\n\nConway starred in \"The Falcon Strikes Back\" (1942), then had the male lead in a second film for Lewton, \"I Walked with a Zombie\" (1942), now regarded as a horror classic.\n\nHe starred in \"The Falcon in Danger\" (1943) and \"The Falcon and the Co-eds\" (1943) back to back, then was top billed in Lewton's \"The Seventh Victim\" (1943) playing the same role he did in \"The Cat People\" though his character was apparently killed in that film. After \"The Falcon Out West\" (1944) he made a crime mystery, \"A Night of Adventure\" (1944), directed by Gordon Douglas. He reprised the Falcon role with \"The Falcon in Mexico\" (1944) and \"The Falcon in Hollywood\" (1945), then was top billed in a \"B\" mystery directed by Anthony Mann, \"Two O'Clock Courage\" (1945).\n\nAfter \"The Falcon in San Francisco\" (1945), Conway was borrowed by United Artists for \"Whistle Stop\" (1946), in which he supported George Raft, Ava Gardner and Victor McLaglen. He went back to RKO for \"The Falcon's Alibi\" (1946) and a \"B\", \"Criminal Court\" (1946), directed by Robert Wise. \"The Falcon's Adventure\" (1946) was Conway's last \"Falcon\".\n\nIn June 1946 Conway obtained a release from his RKO contract. His next film was to be \"Strange Bedfellows\" at United Artists.\n\nOn radio, Conway played Sherlock Holmes during the 1946–1947 season of \"The New Adventures of Sherlock Holmes\", following Basil Rathbone's departure from the series. In spite of a similar vocal timbre, Conway was not as well-received as Rathbone by audiences; he played Holmes for only one season.\n\nHe was a leading support actor in \"Lost Honeymoon\" (1947) and \"Repeat Performance\" (1947) for Eagle-Lion and \"Fun on a Weekend\" (1947) for United Artists.\n\nReliance Pictures, a small outfit who distributed through Fox, hired Conway to play Bulldog Drummond in \"The Challenge\" (1948) and \"13 Lead Soldiers\" (1948). Fox cast him in the lead of some B movies: \"The Checkered Coat\" (1948), \"Bungalow 13\" (1948), and \"I Cheated the Law\" (1949). Conway had a support part in \"One Touch of Venus\" (1948). He had the lead in \"The Great Plane Robbery\" (1950).\n\nConway had support parts in \"Painting the Clouds with Sunshine\" (1951) and \"Bride of the Gorilla\" (1951). He went back to leads for \"Confidence Girl\" (1952) and was a villain in \"Tarzan and the She-Devil\" (1953).\n\nIn 1951, he replaced Vincent Price as star of the radio mystery series \"The Saint\", portrayed by Sanders on film a decade earlier.\n\nFrom 1951–1954, Conway played debonair British police detective Mark Saber, who worked in the homicide division of a large American city, in the ABC series entitled \"Inspector Mark Saber – Homicide Detective\". In 1957, the series resumed on NBC, renamed \"Saber of London\", with Donald Gray in the title role.\n\nConway went to England to star in \"Park Plaza 605\" (1953), and \"Blood Orange\" (1953) using his own name for the private detective he played. He had a support part in \"Paris Model\" (1953) and a minor role in \"Prince Valiant\" (1954), but leads in the British \"Barbados Quest\" (1955), \"Breakaway\" (1955) and \"The Last Man to Hang?\" (1956).\n\nIn 1956, the two brothers both featured (as brothers) in the film \"Death of a Scoundrel\", though Sanders had the starring role.\n\nIn America he was in \"The She-Creature\" (1956) and \"Voodoo Woman\" (1957). In England he did \"Operation Murder\" (1957). In 1956 he was briefly hospitalised for an operation.\n\nConway performed in the \"Alfred Hitchcock Presents\" episode \"The Glass Eye\" (1957) as Max Collodi, receiving critical praise.\n\nConway had support roles on \"The Betty Hutton Show\" television series (1959-60) and in the feature films \"The Atomic Submarine\" (1959), and \"12 to the Moon\" (1960). He provided his voice for Disney's \"101 Dalmatians\" (1961) as a quizmaster in \"What's My Crime?\"—a parody of the game show \"What's My Line?\"—and as a collie who offers the dalmatians shelter in a barn, later guiding them home. His wife at the time, Queenie Leonard, voiced a cow in the barn.\n\nHis final television appearance was in the \"Perry Mason\" episode, \"The Case of the Simple Simon\" (1964), playing the role of Guy Penrose.\n\nDespite having been financially successful in his twenty-four-year film career, Conway later struggled to make ends meet. Failing eyesight and alcoholism took their toll on him in his last years.\n\nHis first marriage ended in divorce in 1953.\n\nHis second wife (Leonard) divorced him in 1963 because of his drinking problem. His alcoholism also cost him his relationship with his brother George Sanders, who broke off all contact with him.\n\nConway underwent cataract surgery during the winter of 1964–1965. In September 1965 he briefly returned to the headlines, having been discovered living in a $2-a-day room in a Venice, Los Angeles flophouse. Gifts, contributions and offers of aid poured in for a time. Conway estimated he had earned $900,000 in his career but was broke. \"I don't particularly want to act,\" he said. He said he lost his last $15,000 to swindlers in a lumber deal. Lew Ayres paid his rent.\n\nHis last years were marked with hospitalizations. It was there that former sister-in-law Zsa Zsa Gabor paid Conway a visit and gave him $200. \"Tip the nurses a little bit so they'll be good to you,\" she told him. The following day, the hospital called her to say that Conway had left with the $200, gone to his girlfriend's house, and become gravely sick in her bed. It was 22 April 1967, and he died from cirrhosis of the liver at the age of 62. His funeral was held in London.\n\n"}
{"id": "1927229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1927229", "title": "Elliot Ingber", "text": "Elliot Ingber\n\nElliot Ingber (born August 24, 1941) is an American guitarist. In 1966, he joined Frank Zappa's Mothers of Invention and was featured on their debut album \"Freak Out!\" After being fired from the band by Zappa following an incident onstage where he tripped on LSD and was unaware that his amplifier was not switched on (according to Jimmy Carl Black), Ingber helped form Fraternity of Man, which released two albums. He subsequently joined Captain Beefheart's Magic Band where he was given the stage name Winged Eel Fingerling by Beefheart. In the sleeve notes to The Spotlight Kid (1972), Captain Beefheart likens Ingber to \"a chrome black eyebrow / rolled out real long\" and also \"a paper brow magnifying glass / fried brown, edge scorched, yoked / like a squeak from a speaker / behind forehead of the time.\" In 1995, Ingber reformed Fraternity of Man with the original vocalist and co-author of \"Don't Bogard that Joint\", Lawrence \"Stash\" Wagner, to record and release a third album released under the Malibu Records label.\n\nHis brother Ira Ingber is also a prominent musician.\n"}
{"id": "1927242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1927242", "title": "Zane Township, Logan County, Ohio", "text": "Zane Township, Logan County, Ohio\n\nZane Township is one of the seventeen townships of Logan County, Ohio, United States. The 2000 census found 968 people in the township.\n\nLocated in the southeastern corner of the county, it borders the following townships:\n\nNo municipalities are located in Zane Township, although the unincorporated community of Middleburg lies in the township's northwest.\n\nZane Township was organized in 1818, and was named for Isaac Zane, a pioneer settler. It is the only Zane Township statewide.\n\nThe township is governed by a three-member board of trustees, who are elected in November of odd-numbered years to a four-year term beginning on the following January 1. Two are elected in the year after the presidential election and one is elected in the year before it. There is also an elected township fiscal officer, who serves a four-year term beginning on April 1 of the year after the election, which is held in November of the year before the presidential election. Vacancies in the fiscal officership or on the board of trustees are filled by the remaining trustees.\n\nIn the elections of November 2007, Jack Graham and Terri Bennett were elected without opposition to the positions of township trustee and township fiscal officer respectively.\n\nImportant highways in Zane Township include U.S. Route 33 and State Routes 287 and 559.\n\n"}
{"id": "1927244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1927244", "title": "SS Hilda Marjanne", "text": "SS Hilda Marjanne\n\nHilda Marjanne was a Canadian straight deck bulk carrier operating on the Great Lakes.\n\nThe ship was built at the Kaiser Shipyard in Swan Island, Oregon, for the U.S. Maritime Commission as a Type T2-SE-A1 tanker and launched on 9 December 1943 as the \"Grande Ronde\".\n\n\"Grande Ronde\" was chartered to Los Angeles Tanker Operations, Inc. of Los Angeles, California, for wartime service, primarily in the Pacific Theater. The ship was o/a, with a beam of and deep. Powered by a GE steam turbine engine, she had a deadweight tonnage of 16,600 tons and a capacity of of fuel oil.\n\nIn 1948 the \"Grande Ronde\" was sold to the Cephalonian Maritime Company of Athens, Greece. Renamed \"Kate N.L.\" she operated in the Mediterranean Sea transporting petroleum products.\n\nIn 1960 she was sold to Leitch Transport Ltd. of Toronto, Ontario, and towed to the Schlieker-Werft shipyard in Hamburg, West Germany, to be converted to a bulk carrier. The ship was extended to , with a beam of giving her a deadweight tonnage of 25,600 tons.\n\nThe ship, renamed \"Hilda Marjanne\", returned to Canada in August 1961 for service on the Great Lakes transporting grain and iron ore.\n\nIn 1975 she was one of three ships called to aid the search for survivors from the ill-fated which had gone down; but stormy weather forced her to abandon her efforts leaving just the and the to continue the search.\n\n\"Hilda Marjanne\" was laid up at Hamilton, Ontario on June 13, 1983. The bows and midsection (minus the forward wheelhouse, stern accommodations and machinery) of \"Hilda Marjanne\" were then joined to the stern section of the freighter \"Chimo\" at the Port Weller Dry Docks, St. Catharines, Ontario. The remaining unwanted sections of both ships were scrapped. The new ship was completed on April 5, 1984, as the bulk carrier \"Canadian Ranger\", which served as a grain transporter until laid up in 2008. She was scrapped in Aliağa, Turkey, in 2011.\n"}
{"id": "1927269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1927269", "title": "MAP sensor", "text": "MAP sensor\n\nThe manifold absolute pressure sensor (MAP sensor) is one of the sensors used in an internal combustion engine's electronic control system.\n\nEngines that use a MAP sensor are typically fuel injected. The manifold absolute pressure sensor provides instantaneous manifold pressure information to the engine's electronic control unit (ECU). The data is used to calculate air density and determine the engine's air mass flow rate, which in turn determines the required fuel metering for optimum combustion (see stoichiometry) and influence the advance or retard of ignition timing. A fuel-injected engine may alternatively use a mass airflow sensor (MAF sensor) to detect the intake airflow. A typical naturally aspirated engine configuration employs one or the other, whereas forced induction engines typically use both; a MAF sensor on the charge pipe leading to the throttle body and a MAP sensor on the intake tract pre-turbo.\n\nMAP sensor data can be converted to air mass data by using a second variable coming from an IAT Sensor (intake air temperature sensor). This is called the speed-density method. Engine speed (RPM) is also used to determine where on a look up table to determine fuelling, hence speed-density (engine speed / air density). The MAP sensor can also be used in OBD II (on-board diagnostics) applications to test the EGR (exhaust gas recirculation) valve for functionality, an application typical in OBD II equipped General Motors engines.\n\nThe following example assumes the same engine speed and air temperature in a naturally aspirated engine.\n\nThe engine requires the same mass of fuel in both conditions because the mass of air entering the cylinders is the same.\n\nIf the throttle is opened all the way in condition 2, the manifold absolute pressure will increase from 50 kPa to nearly 100 kPa (14.5 psi, 29.53 inHG), about equal to the local barometer, which in condition 2 is sea level. The higher absolute pressure in the intake manifold increases the air's density, and in turn more fuel can be burned resulting in higher output.\n\nAnother example is varying rpm and engine loads -\n\nWhere an engine may have 60kPa of manifold pressure at 1800 rpm in an unloaded condition, introducing load with a further throttle opening will change the final manifold pressure to 100kPa, engine will still be at 1800 rpm but its loading will require a different spark and fueling delivery.\n\nEngine vacuum is the difference between the pressures in the intake manifold and ambient atmospheric pressure. Engine vacuum is a \"gauge\" pressure, since gauges by nature measure a pressure difference, not an absolute pressure. The engine fundamentally responds to air mass, not vacuum, and absolute pressure is necessary to calculate mass. The mass of air entering the engine is directly proportional to the air density, which is proportional to the absolute pressure, and inversely proportional to the absolute temperature.\n\n\"Note: Carburetors are largely dependent on air volume flow and vacuum, and neither directly infers mass. Consequently, carburetors are precise, but not accurate fuel metering devices. Carburetors were replaced by more accurate fuel metering methods, such as fuel injection in combination with an air mass flow sensor (MAF).\"\n\nWith OBD II standards, vehicle manufacturers were required to test the exhaust gas recirculation (EGR) valve for functionality during driving. Some manufacturers use the MAP sensor to accomplish this. In these vehicles, they have a MAF sensor for their primary load sensor. The MAP sensor is then used for rationality checks and to test the EGR valve. The way they do this is during a deceleration of the vehicle when there is low absolute pressure in the intake manifold (i.e., a high vacuum present in the intake manifold relative to the outside air) the powertrain control module (PCM) will open the EGR valve and then monitor the MAP sensor's values. If the EGR is functioning properly, the manifold absolute pressure will increase as exhaust gases enter.\n\nMAP sensors measure absolute pressure. Boost sensors or gauges measure the amount of pressure above a set absolute pressure. That set absolute pressure is usually 100 kPa. This is commonly referred to as gauge pressure. Boost pressure is relative to absolute pressure - as one increases or decreases, so does the other. It is a one-to-one relationship with an offset of -100 kPa for boost pressure. Thus a MAP sensor will always read 100 kPa more than a boost sensor measuring the same conditions. A MAP sensor will never display a negative reading because it is measuring absolute pressure, where zero is the total absence of pressure. Vacuum is measured as a negative pressure relative to normal atmospheric pressure. Vacuum-Boost sensors can display negative readings, indicating vacuum or suction (a condition of lower pressure than the surrounding atmosphere). In forced induction engines (supercharged or turbocharged), a negative boost reading indicates that the engine is drawing air faster than it is being supplied, creating suction. The suction is caused by throttling in spark ignition engines and is not present in diesel engines. This is often called vacuum pressure when referring to internal combustion engines.\n\nIn short, in a standard atmosphere most boost sensors will read one atmosphere less than a MAP sensor reads. At sea level one can convert boost to MAP by adding approximately 100 kPa. One can convert from MAP to boost by subtracting 100 kPa.\n\n"}
{"id": "1927302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1927302", "title": "Dudgeon v United Kingdom", "text": "Dudgeon v United Kingdom\n\nDudgeon v the United Kingdom (1981) was a European Court of Human Rights (ECtHR) case, which held that Section 11 of the Criminal Law Amendment Act 1885 which criminalised male homosexual acts in England, Wales and Northern Ireland violated the European Convention on Human Rights. The case was significant\n\nJeff Dudgeon was a shipping clerk and gay activist in Belfast, Northern Ireland, when he was interrogated by the Royal Ulster Constabulary about his sexual activities. He filed a complaint with the European Commission of Human Rights in 1975, which after a hearing in 1979 declared his complaint admissible to the European Court of Human Rights. The Court hearing was in April 1981 before a full panel of 19 judges. Dudgeon was represented by barristers Lord Gifford, Terry Munyard and solicitor Paul Crane.\n\nOn 22 October 1981, the Court agreed with the Commission that Northern Ireland's criminalisation of homosexual acts between consenting adults was a violation of Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights which says: \"Everyone has the right to respect for his private and family life, his home and his correspondence. There shall be no interference by a public authority with the exercise of this right except such as is in accordance with the law and is necessary in a democratic society ... for the protection of health or morals\". Judgment was given in Dudgeon's favour on that aspect by 15 votes to 4.\n\nIt stated the \"restriction imposed on Mr. Dudgeon under Northern Ireland law, by reason of its breadth and absolute character, is, quite apart from the severity of the possible penalties provided for, disproportionate to the aims sought to be achieved.\" However, the ruling continued, \"it was for countries to fix for themselves ... any appropriate extension of the age of consent in relation to such conduct.\"\n\nThe Court held by 14 votes to 5 that it was not necessary also to examine the case under Article 14 taken in conjunction with Article 8 which would otherwise have meant considering the aspect of discrimination. It stated that \"once it has been held that the restriction on the applicant's right to respect for his private sexual life give rise to a breach of Article 8 by reason of its breadth and absolute character, there is no useful legal purpose to be served in determining whether he has in addition suffered discrimination as compared with other persons.\" Minority opinions were written on both aspects.\n\nThis was the first case at the European Court of Human Rights to be decided in favour of LGBT rights. It was only the thirty-fifth case judged by the Court, and the fifth violation found against the UK. There have been upwards of ten thousand more cases judged at Strasbourg.\n\nAs a consequence of the judgment, male homosexual sex was decriminalised in Northern Ireland in October 1982. Female homosexual behaviour was never criminal anywhere in the United Kingdom.\n\nThe MPs from Northern Ireland who voted on the proposed decriminalising Order were universally opposed.\n\nIn the Article 50 settlement of 24 February 1983, no damages were awarded, the verdict being seen as sufficient reward for the hurt and pain suffered. Costs of £3,315 were awarded towards Dudgeon's legal fees but he was denied the remaining £1,290 because of a view by the Court that his then lawyers were operating on a contingency basis. Three of the five judges who voted against him on the main case and the British judge constituted a majority of the seven judges on the settlement court panel.\n\nA Freedom of Information Request later revealed a note from a Conservative minister from that time, saying, \"Put this to one side; Strasbourg will do the needful.\" This implied that although sympathetic to Dudgeon's case, the UK government preferred using the European Court of Human Rights to change the law in Northern Ireland rather than intervene itself. \n\nThe same provision of the 1885 Act was still in force in the Republic of Ireland, and upheld by the Supreme Court of Ireland in 1983. \"Norris v. Ireland\" (1988), successfully challenged this in the ECtHR, with \"Dudgeon\" serving as the key precedent. This led to decriminalisation in the Republic of Ireland in 1993. It was similarly followed in \"Modinos v. Cyprus\" (1993), finding an equivalent law to be a violation.\n\n\"Dudgeon v. United Kingdom\" was cited by Justice Anthony Kennedy in \"Lawrence v. Texas\" (2003), the US Supreme Court decision which found anti-sodomy laws in 14 remaining states to be unconstitutional.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1927307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1927307", "title": "Music of New Caledonia", "text": "Music of New Caledonia\n\nThe music of New Caledonia is rooted in the Melanesian tradition. The Pacific Tempo is an important music festival, held every three years in [England]; the biennial equinox is also an important celebration.\n\nModern popular performers include OK! Ryos, Edou and Gurejele, who are at the forefront of the popular Kaneka movement, which began in the mid-1980s. Kaneka fuses traditional styles with pop and world music. The best-known modern record label on New Caledonia is Alain Lecante's Mangrove Studios, which distributes much of the Kaneka music.\n\n"}
{"id": "1927322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1927322", "title": "Mark 13 missile launcher", "text": "Mark 13 missile launcher\n\nThe Mark 13 guided missile launching system (GMLS) is a single-arm missile launcher designed for use on frigates and other military vessels. Because of its distinctive single-armed design, the Mark 13 is often referred to as the \"one-armed bandit.\"\n\nThe Mark 13 is equipped to fire the RIM-66 Standard, RGM-84 Harpoon, and RIM-24 Tartar missiles for anti-air and anti-ship defense, and is capable of firing the Standard at a rate of one every eight seconds. Its 40-round magazine consists of two concentric rings of vertically stored missiles, 24 in the outer ring and 16 in the inner. Total capacity was reduced by 1 due to a requirement to carry a Guided Missile Training Round (GMTR) in order to test system functionality. In case of a fire, the system is equipped with magazine sprinkling, CO suppression and booster suppression. It is also equipped with a dud jettison function to eject a round overboard if it fails to fire.\n\nIn the United States Navy, the Mark 13 launcher was most typically employed as part of the Mark 74 Guided Missile Launch System, or the Mark 92 Fire Control System. Though the launcher was original armament on U.S. Navy \"Perry\"-class frigates (and their derivatives), in order to save costs on an obsolete system, by 2004 all active U.S. Navy vessels have had the system removed. It was also fitted on the French \"Cassard\"-class frigates, as well as the two \"Mitscher\"-class destroyers converted to DDGs, the last ten American \"Charles F. Adams\"-class destroyers, the American s, the German s and Australian s and s, and Dutch s and s, and Italian s.\n\nThe Mark 22 guided missile launching system (GMLS) is a variation of the Mark 13 launcher which has only the inner 16 round storage ring of the Mark 13 launcher. It was deployed on US-designed, Baleares-class Spanish frigates. and US Navy Brooke class frigates. Another major difference is that on the Mark 22 the magazine is non-rotating. The launcher rotates over the desired missile and it is then hoisted onto the rail. On the Mark 13 the magazine rotates under the launcher.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1927327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1927327", "title": "David Hewson", "text": "David Hewson\n\nDavid Hewson (born 9 January 1953) is a contemporary British author of mystery novels. His series of mysteries, featuring police officers In Rome, led by the young detective and art lover Nic Costa, began with \"A Season for the Dead\", has now been contracted to run to at least nine instalments by British, American, European and Asian publishers. The author's debut novel, \"Shanghai Thunder\", was published by Robert Hale, in the United Kingdom, in 1986. Almost all copies of the book were sent to libraries, and it has been reissued. \n\nHis second book was set in Spain during Holy Week and won the W H Smith Fresh Talent prize for one of the best first novels of 1996. Its film adaptation, released In 2002, was also titled \"Semana santa\". Apart from that he has written a number of standalone novels, including \"Lucifer's Shadow\" and \"The Promised Land\", and as well the second chapter of the audio serial novel \"The Chopin Manuscript\" started by Jeffery Deaver, with Lee Child and 13 other co-writers, for the audiobook site Audible.com. \n\nHewson wrote three novels, one based on each part of the tripartite Danish TV series \"The Killing\". Alongside A.J. Hartley he wrote prose adaptations of William Shakespeare's plays \"Macbeth\" (released 2011) and \"Hamlet\" (released 2014) exclusively for Audible.com, and alone he wrote an adaptation of \"Romeo and Juliet\", again exclusively for Audible. The three novels were narrated by Alan Cumming and Richard Armitage (who narrated both \"Hamlet\" and \"Romeo and Juliet\"), respectively. \n\nHewson left school at 17 and joined a local newspaper, the Scarborough Evening News, in the north of England. He was later a news, business and foreign reporter for \"The Times\", and features editor of \"The Independent\" when it was launched in 1986. He served as a board member of International Thriller Writers Inc. for four years until 2009.\n\n\nNic Costa series\nPieter Vos series\n\n\n\nIn 2008, Hewson and narrator Saul Reichlin won the prize for best unabridged audiobook in the UK for \"The Seventh Sacrament\". In 2009 the sixth Nic Costa novel, \"The Garden of Evil,\" won the American Library Association's best genre fiction reading list award for mystery.\n\n"}
{"id": "1927331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1927331", "title": "Jean Poton de Xaintrailles", "text": "Jean Poton de Xaintrailles\n\nJean Poton de Xaintrailles (1390? – 7 October 1461), a minor noble of Gascon origin, was one of the chief lieutenants of Joan of Arc. He served as master of the royal stables, as royal bailiff in Berry and as seneschal of Limousin. In 1454 he was appointed a Marshal of France. Jean Poton was a leading figure on the French side in the Hundred Years War. \nHe fought at the battle of Verneuil in 1424. His participation, along with Joan of Arc, in the battle at Orléans in 1427 led to the end of the Siege of Orléans. He was badly wounded during this battle. He was captured at the battle of Cravant and later exchanged for John Talbot. Jean Poton fought numerous battles alongside Joan of Arc during the Loire Campaign. He remained a lifelong support for Joan of Arc. With La Hire, he even tried, albeit in vain, to rescue Joan after she was captured. Believing Joan was being held captive in Compiègne, Jean Poton captured it, only to learn that the prisoner had already been moved to Rouen.\n\nHe served with Joan of Arc at the Siege of Orléans, and the battles of Jargeau, Meung-sur-Loire, Beaugency and Patay. He raised the siege of Compiègne.\n\nIn the latter phase of the Hundred Years War he was active in the reconquest of Normandy and the conquest of Guyenne, often with Étienne de Vignolles, better known as La Hire, including the action at Gerbevoy. When the standing army was created in 1445, Xaintrailles was appointed to command one of the twelve companies of the new army.\n\nHe died in Bordeaux without heirs and left his estate to the church.\nXaintrailles is a minor figure in the \"Catherine\" novels of Juliette Benzoni.\n\n"}
{"id": "1927332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1927332", "title": "Mark Salzman", "text": "Mark Salzman\n\nMark Joseph Salzman (born December 3, 1959 in Greenwich, Connecticut) is an American writer. Salzman is best known for his 1986 memoir \"Iron & Silk\", which describes his experiences living in China as an English teacher in the early 1980s.\n\nSalzman grew up in Ridgefield, Connecticut, the oldest child of a piano teacher mother and a social worker father. He studied Chinese Language and Literature at Yale University. He graduated Phi Beta Kappa, summa cum laude in 1982 and spent the next two years in Changsha, Hunan, teaching English at and studying martial arts with Pan Qingfu, a Chinese martial arts teacher and kung fu movie actor. His experiences in China are recounted in his first book, \"Iron & Silk: A young American encounters swordsmen, bureaucrats and other citizens of contemporary China\", published in 1986. Salzman received several literary awards for \"Iron & Silk\". The book was made into a 1990 film of the same title. Salzman wrote the screenplay and starred as himself in the film. Though the real venue of the story was in Changsha, the film was shot in Hangzhou, Zhejiang.\n\nSalzman's other publications include several works of fiction, a memoir dealing with growing up in suburbia, more specifically Ridgefield, Connecticut, and a report on his work as a creative writing instructor for juvenile delinquents.\n\nSalzman plays the cello. In high school, he played the cello for the Norwalk Youth Symphony. In 1996, he performed as guest cellist with YoYo Ma, pianist Emmanuel Ax, and others at Alice Tully Hall for the 20th anniversary performance of Live From Lincoln Center.\n\nIn 2007, Mark Salzman, along with three other men, was featured in the documentary \"Protagonist\", directed by his wife, Jessica Yu.\n\nSalzman was awarded a Guggenheim Fellowship in 2000. He, his wife Jessica Yu, an Academy Award-winning filmmaker, and their daughters Ava and Esme live in Los Angeles.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1927333", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1927333", "title": "Monroe Township, Logan County, Ohio", "text": "Monroe Township, Logan County, Ohio\n\nMonroe Township is one of the seventeen townships of Logan County, Ohio, United States. The 2000 census found 1,503 people in the township.\n\nLocated in the southeastern part of the county, it borders the following townships:\n\nParts of the villages of West Liberty and Valley Hi are located in southwestern and northern Monroe Township respectively, and the unincorporated community of Pickrelltown lies in the township's north.\n\nMonroe Township was organized in 1822. It is one of twenty-two Monroe Townships statewide.\n\nThe township is governed by a three-member board of trustees, who are elected in November of odd-numbered years to a four-year term beginning on the following January 1. Two are elected in the year after the presidential election and one is elected in the year before it. There is also an elected township fiscal officer, who serves a four-year term beginning on April 1 of the year after the election, which is held in November of the year before the presidential election. Vacancies in the fiscal officership or on the board of trustees are filled by the remaining trustees.\n\nIn the elections of November 2007, Dale Barns and Linda Stuart were elected without opposition to the positions of township trustee and township fiscal officer respectively.\n\nImportant highways in Monroe Township include State Routes 245 and 287.\n\n"}
{"id": "1927335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1927335", "title": "Reggie Brown (wide receiver)", "text": "Reggie Brown (wide receiver)\n\nReggie Brown (born January 13, 1981) is a former American football wide receiver. He was drafted by the Philadelphia Eagles in the second round of the 2005 NFL Draft. He played college football at The University of Georgia.\n\nBrown was also a member of the Tampa Bay Buccaneers. He is the cousin of former New York Jets player and a current University of West Georgia defensive backs coach, Jamie Henderson (also a Carrollton High School graduate).\n\nBrown was a Parade All-American wide receiver at Carrollton High School, while leading the Trojans to back-to-back state championship berths and a 1998 Georgia High School Association Class AA title.\n\nIn college at the University of Georgia, Brown was highly touted receiver coming into his freshman year, but injuries held him back during his four years of college. He was the number three receiver in his freshman and sophomore years behind Terrence Edwards and Fred Gibson. During his junior and senior years, Brown was a top performer with Gibson. \n\nBrown was drafted by the Philadelphia Eagles in the second round of the 2005 NFL Draft.\n\nIn 2005, his rookie season, Brown was promoted to the starting spot of suspended wide receiver Terrell Owens. In his first start on November 6, 2005, Brown caught five passes for 94 yards and one touchdown against the Washington Redskins. In his second meeting against the division-rival Redskins, he caught two first half touchdowns. This impressive performance capped a promising year for the rookie. Brown led all rookies with 571 yards and was second with 43 receptions.\n\nWith the off-season departures of Owens and Todd Pinkston, Brown became the number-one wideout for the Eagles in 2006. He had nearly 18 yards per catch on 816 receiving yards and eight touchdowns for the year.\n\nOn November 9, 2006, Brown agreed to a 6-year contract extension with the Eagles. The deal, which locked him up through 2014, was worth up to $27 million, with $10 million in guarantees.\n\nOn December 16, 2007, during a game in Dallas against the rival Cowboys, Brown, after running to catch an overthrown pass, ran out of bounds and jumped in the giant Salvation Army bucket in Texas Stadium, saying he couldn't slow down in time to stop before it. He caught the lone touchdown in the Eagles 10-6 win that day.\n\nIn the 2008 season, Brown was often injured and eventually lost his starting job to rookie DeSean Jackson. He also fell behind slot receiver Jason Avant and receiver Kevin Curtis on the depth chart. He was inactive in the NFC Championship Game loss at the Arizona Cardinals.\n\nIn the 2009 season, Brown produced only 9 catches for 155 yards and no touchdowns. He only started in one game (due to Jeremy Maclin being inactive with a leg injury), in which he caught only one pass for 7 yards. He was inactive for the first two games of the season, and completely fell behind Desean Jackson, Jeremy Maclin and Jason Avant as the team's fourth receiver.\n\nOn March 8, 2010, Brown was traded to the Tampa Bay Buccaneers for a sixth round pick in the 2011 NFL Draft. He was released on September 6, 2010.\n\n"}
{"id": "1927340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1927340", "title": "Audrey J. Walton Stadium (Columbia, Missouri)", "text": "Audrey J. Walton Stadium (Columbia, Missouri)\n\nAudrey J. Walton Stadium on the campus of the University of Missouri is the home of the Missouri Tigers track and field teams and the Missouri Relays track and field meet. Audrey J. Walton, the namesake of the Stadium, was married to Sam Walton's brother, Bud Walton. Sam Walton is the founder of Wal-Mart and an alumnus of the University. The stadium has a seating capacity of 2,500 and is also the home of the women's soccer team at the University of Missouri.\n"}
{"id": "1927344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1927344", "title": "Barrett Ruud", "text": "Barrett Ruud\n\nBarrett James Ruud (born May 20, 1983) is a former American football linebacker in the National Football League (NFL). He was drafted by the Tampa Bay Buccaneers in the second round of the 2005 NFL Draft and also played for the Tennessee Titans, New Orleans Saints and Houston Texans. He played college football at Nebraska, where he currently serves as the inside linebackers coach.\n\nRuud attended high school at Lincoln Southeast High School in Lincoln, Nebraska. He was a four-year letterman and helped his team compile a 48-2 record and Class A state titles in 1998, 1999, and 2001. He was a two-time All-American by the Omaha World-Herald and earned All-American honors as a linebacker from Prep Star and Student Sport. He also was a two-time super-state pick and was named offensive player of the year, defensive player of the year and prep athlete of the year by the Lincoln Journal Star.\n\nRuud played college football at the University of Nebraska. He earned numerous honors while there including 2004 Third-Team All American, 2004 First-Team All-Big 12, 2003 Second-Team All-Big 12, and 2002 All-Big 12 honorable mention among others. He finished his career starting 37 of 50 games finishing with a school record 432 career tackles.\n\nRuud was drafted by the Tampa Bay Buccaneers in the second round of the 2005 NFL Draft. As a rookie, he played in all 16 games recording 17 tackles. In 2006, he started 5 of 16 games after injuries to Shelton Quarles and Ryan Nece and finished with 57 tackles.\n\nIn 2007 Ruud became a full-time starter after the team cut longtime starter Quarles. He finished the season starting all 15 games he played in, recording 114 tackles and two interceptions. He remained the Buccaneers starter through 2008 and ended the season totaling 137 tackles, three sacks and two interceptions.\n\nOn July 30, 2011, Ruud signed with the Tennessee Titans. On December 13, 2011, Ruud was placed on injured reserve, ending his season.\n\nIn April 2012, Ruud signed with the Seattle Seahawks.\n\nOn August 20, 2012, Ruud was traded to the New Orleans Saints in exchange for a conditional draft pick. On October 8, 2012, Ruud was cut by the Saints after the team went through a 1-4 start.\n\nOn October 10, 2012 Ruud was signed by the Houston Texans, to provide depth at linebacker after the injury to defensive star Brian Cushing.\n\nKey\n\nRuud's father, Tom Ruud, played for the Cornhuskers in the early 1970s and later in the National Football League for the Buffalo Bills and Cincinnati Bengals. His younger brother Bo also attended Nebraska.\n\nHis mother Jaime Ruud died of a massive heart attack on June 30, 2006 while vacationing with family in northern Minnesota.\n\nBarrett hosts an annual summer football camp at Warner University for children ages 7–18.\n\n"}
{"id": "1927356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1927356", "title": "Shaun Cody", "text": "Shaun Cody\n\nShaun Michael Cody (born January 22, 1983) is a former American football nose tackle. He played college football for the University of Southern California (USC), and was recognized as a consensus All-American. The Detroit Lions chose him in the second round of the 2005 NFL Draft. He is currently a commentator for the USC football team.\n\nCody was born in Whittier, California. After spending his freshman year at Damien High School in La Verne, he attended Los Altos High School in Hacienda Heights, and he played for the Los Altos Conquerors high school football team. Lining up as defensive end, Cody recorded 105 tackles and 22 sacks as a senior, while helping Los Altos to a 14–0 record and its second consecutive CIF Division VII championship. As a junior, he had 150 tackles, 51 tackles for losses, 35 sacks, 10 deflections and 10 forced fumbles. Cody was recognized by \"USA Today\" as its 2000 All-USA Defensive Most Valuable Player. He also played in the first-ever U.S. Army All-American Bowl game on December 30, 2000.\n\nOne of the most-sought after recruits of his class, Cody was particularly heavy recruited by the USC Trojans and their newly hired coaches Pete Carroll and Ed Orgeron. Cody was Carroll's first blue-chip recruit, which attracted other talented players and eventually led to USC's dominance in the early 2000s.\n\nCody attended the University of Southern California, and played for coach Pete Carroll's USC Trojans football team from 2001 to 2004. He was a backup defensive lineman for USC's first four games of 2001, and started the last eight at tackle, and posted 39 tackles, including seven for losses (with five sacks), and one fumble recovery. He was a first-team Freshman All-America selection. As a sophomore in 2002, Cody started for his second season at defensive while starting the first six games, and compiled 20 tackles, including one for a loss, a deflection, fumble recovery, and a blocked field goal.\n\nCody started all thirteen games as a junior defensive tackle in 2003, and had 26 tackles, including 10.5 for losses (with six sacks), plus a forced fumble, a deflection and three blocked field goals. He was a first-team All-Pac-10 selection and received third-team All-American honors from the Associated Press. He was recognized as a first-team All-Pac-10 selection and consensus first-team All-American as a senior in 2004, after he compiled a career-high 45 tackles (29 solo), 10 sacks, 13 stops for losses, two forced fumbles, two fumble recoveries and three pass deflections. He was also a team captain and voted Pac-10 Defensive Player of the Year.\n\nProjected as a late first-round selection by \"Sports Illustrated\", Cody was ranked as the No. 2 defensive tackle available in the 2005 NFL Draft, behind only Travis Johnson. He eventually was the fourth lineman off the boards, after Johnson, Luis Castillo, and his USC teammate Mike Patterson.\n\nCody was selected with the fifth pick of the second round of the 2005 NFL Draft out of the University of Southern California. He played four seasons for the Lions, recording 91 tackles, 1.5 sacks, one forced fumble and one interceptions in 53 games, before becoming a free agent following the 2008 season.\n\nAn unrestricted free agent in the 2009 offseason, Cody agreed to terms on a three-year contract with the Houston Texans on March 23, 2009. In Week 9 against the Buffalo Bills in 2012, Cody suffered a punctured lung and broken ribs, but later returned to finish the game.\n\nCody participated in a series for Spike TV entitled \"Super Agent\", in which a number of sports agents competed to work for him and negotiate his NFL contract.\n\nCody is the host of \"On The Nose\", a behind-the-scenes internet video show with a humorous, irreverent style, interviewing several Texans including Connor Barwin and Bob McNair.\n\n"}
{"id": "1927357", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1927357", "title": "Trexlertown, Pennsylvania", "text": "Trexlertown, Pennsylvania\n\nTrexlertown (also Trexlerstown) is a census-designated place in Upper Macungie Township, Lehigh County, Pennsylvania, United States. It lies in the Lehigh Valley between Breinigsville and Wescosville. As of the 2010 census the population was 1,988 residents.\n\nAir Products & Chemicals is located adjacent to Trexlertown. The town also is next to the Lehigh Valley Velodrome, which is home to various cycling competitions.\n\nJeremiah Trexler obtained land adjoining that of his father in Upper Macungie Township, Bucks County, Pennsylvania, where he kept a tavern as early as in 1732. In 1734 a road was laid out from his tavern through North Wales in now Montgomery County to Philadelphia. As was the custom of the time, a village grew around the tavern, which came to be known as Trexlertown.\n\nTrexlertown is located at an altitude of .\n\nTrexlertown is part of the Parkland School District. Students in grades nine through 12 attend Parkland High School.\n"}
{"id": "1927362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1927362", "title": "Phonological history of English consonant clusters", "text": "Phonological history of English consonant clusters\n\nThe phonological history of the English language includes various changes in the phonology of consonant clusters.\n\nThe H-cluster reductions are various consonant reductions that have occurred in the history of English, involving consonant clusters beginning with that have lost the (or become reduced to ) in some or all dialects.\n\nThe cluster (spelled ⟨wh⟩ since Middle English) has been subject to two kinds of reduction:\n\nThe Old English consonant clusters , and were reduced to , , and in Middle English. For example, Old English \"hlāf\", \"hring\" and \"hnutu\" become \"loaf\", \"ring\" and \"nut\" in Modern English.\n\nIn some dialects of English the cluster is reduced to , leading to pronunciations like for \"huge\" and for \"human\", and making \"hew\" a homophone of \"ewe\" or \"you\". This is sometimes considered a type of glide cluster reduction, but it is much less widespread than wh-reduction, and is generally stigmatized where it is found. Aside from accents with general H-dropping, in the United States this reduction is mostly found in accents of Philadelphia and New York City; it also occurs in Cork accents of Irish English. In other dialects of English \"hew\" and \"yew\" remain distinct; however, the cluster of \"hew\", \"human\", etc. is often reduced from to just (a voiceless palatal fricative).\n\nY-cluster reductions are reductions of clusters ending with the palatal approximant , which is the sound of in \"yes\", and is sometimes referred to as \"yod\", from the Hebrew letter yod(h), which has the sound . Many such clusters arose in dialects in which the falling diphthong (the product of the merger of several Middle English vowel sequences) became the rising diphthong . (For more information, see Phonological history of English high back vowels.) They were thus often found before the vowel , as in \"cube\" – which was in some cases modified to or before (historical) , as in \"cure\", or weakened to or as in \"argument\". They also occurred in words ending in \"-ion\" and \"-ious\", such as \"nation\" and \"precious\".\n\nThis change from to , which had occurred in London by the end of the 17th century, did not take place in all dialects. A few dialects, notably in Wales, as well as in some parts of northern England, New England and the American South, still retain a (falling) diphthong where standard English has – these dialects therefore lack the clusters with and have not been subject to the reductions described here.\n\nThe diphthongs or are most commonly indicated by the spellings \"eu\", \"ew\", \"uCV\" (where \"C\" is any consonant and \"V\" is any vowel), \"ue\" and \"ui\", as in \"feud\", \"few\", \"mute\", \"cue\" and \"suit\", while the historical monophthong is commonly indicated by the spellings \"oo\" and \"ou\", as in \"moon\" and \"soup\".\n\nYod-dropping is the elision of the from certain syllable-initial clusters of the type described above. Particular cases of yod-dropping may affect all or some of the dialects which have the relevant clusters.\n\nThe change of to in these positions (as described above) produced some clusters which would have been difficult or impossible to pronounce; this led to what John Wells calls Early Yod Dropping, in which the was elided in the following environments:\n\nThe previously mentioned accents that did not have the → change were not subject to this process. Thus, for example, in much Welsh English pairs like \"chews\"/\"choose\", \"yew\"/\"you\" and \"threw\"/\"through\" remain distinct: the first member of each pair has the diphthong while the second member has :\nConversely an initial does not appear in Welsh English before in words such as \"yeast\" and \"yield\".\n\nMany varieties of English have extended yod-dropping to the following environments, on condition that the be in the same syllable as the preceding consonant:\n\nYod-dropping in the above environments was formerly considered nonstandard in England, but is today also heard among well-educated RP speakers. (The after is not normally dropped in RP in medial positions, however – compare \"pursuit\" .) In General American yod-dropping is found not only in the above environments but also:\n\n\nGlide retention in these contexts has occasionally been held to be a shibboleth distinguishing Canadians from Americans. However, in a survey conducted in the Golden Horseshoe area of Southern Ontario in 1994, over 80% of respondents under the age of 40 pronounced \"student\" and \"news\" without yod.\nGeneral American thus undergoes yod-dropping after all alveolar consonants. A small number accents of American English (though typically for working-class Southern American English), however, preserve the distinction in pairs like \"do\"/\"dew\", because (as in the Welsh English dialects discussed above) they retain a diphthong in words where RP has , thus , , etc.\n\nHowever, in words like \"annual\", \"menu\", \"volume\", \"Matthew\", \"continue\", etc., where there is a syllable break before the , there is no yod-dropping. The same applies accordingly to British and other accents – while the yod is often dropped after initial , for example, it is not dropped in words like \"volume\" or \"value\". (British speakers do omit the in \"figure\", however, although many Americans retain it.)\n\nYod-dropping after , and was also a traditional feature of Cockney speech, and this continues to be the case after , although after and yod-coalescence is now more common.\n\nSome East Anglian accents such as Norfolk dialect extend yod-dropping not only to the position after , or , but to the position after nonalveolar consonants as well, so that pairs like \"beauty\"/\"booty\", \"mute\"/\"moot\", \"cute\"/\"coot\" can be homophonous. A well-known series of UK television advertisements beginning in the 1980s featured Bernard Matthews describing his turkeys as \"bootiful\" (for \"beautiful\"). Such accents only pronounce a in words like \"use\", \"unit\" etc. where there is no consonant before the .\n\nYod-coalescence is a process that palatalizes the clusters into respectively (for the meanings of the symbols, see English phonology). The first two of these are examples of affrication.\n\nUnlike yod-dropping, yod-coalescence frequently occurs with clusters which would be considered to span a syllable boundary. It thus commonly occurs before unstressed syllables. For example, in \"educate\", the cluster would not usually be subject to yod-dropping (in General American, say), as the is assigned to the previous syllable, but it commonly coalesces to . Below are a few examples of universal yod-coalescence.\n\n\nIn some other words the coalesced pronunciation is common but not universal in the standard accents. For example:\n\nCoalescence can even occur across word boundaries, as in the colloquial \"gotcha\" (for \"got you\") and \"whatcha\" (for \"what're you\").\n\nIn some accents, yod-coalescence also occurs in stressed syllables, as in \"tune\" and \"dune\". This happens in Australian, Cockney, Estuary English, Hiberno-English (some speakers), Newfoundland English, South African English, and to a certain extent in New Zealand English, Scottish English (many speakers), and even some varieties of English in Asia, like Philippine English (many speakers, due to influence by the phonology of their mother languages). It results in pronunciations such as these:\n\n\nIn certain varieties such as Australian and Ugandan English, stressed can also coalesce:\n\nThis can lead to additional homophony. For instance, \"dew\" and \"due\" come to be pronounced the same as \"Jew\".\n\nYod-coalescence has traditionally been resisted in RP. While it has certainly become established in words of the first group listed above (\"nature\", \"soldier\", \"pressure\", etc.), it is not yet universal in those of the second group (\"educate\", etc.), and does not generally occur in those of the third group (\"dew\", \"tune\", etc.).\n\nSee also\n\nOld and Middle English had an initial cluster, hence the spelling of words like \"write\" and \"wrong\". This was reduced to just , apparently during the 17th century. An intermediate stage may have been an with lip rounding.\n\nAs a result of this reduction, pairs of words like \"rap\" and \"wrap\", \"rite\" and \"write\", etc. are homophones in practically all varieties of Modern English. They remain distinct in the Doric dialect of Scots, where the \"wr-\" cluster is pronounced .\n\nOld English also had a cluster , which reduced to during Middle English. For example, the word \"lisp\" derives from Old English \"wlisp(ian)\".\n\nMiddle English initial is reduced in modern English to , making pairs like \"knot/not\" and \"knight/night\" homophones.\n\nThe cluster was spelled \"cn-\" in Old English; this changed to \"kn-\" in Middle English, and this spelling survives in Modern English, despite the loss of the sound. Cognates in other Germanic languages usually still sound the initial . For example, the Old English ancestor of \"knee\" was \"cnēo\", pronounced , and the cognate word in Modern German is \"Knie\", pronounced .\n\nMost dialects of English reduced the initial cluster to relatively recently; the change seems to have taken place in educated English during the seventeenth century. The cluster is preserved in some Scots dialects.\n\nThe Middle English initial cluster is reduced to in Modern English. Like the reduction of , this seems to have taken place during the seventeenth century. The change affected words like \"gnat\", \"gnostic\", \"gnome\", etc., the spelling with \"gn-\" being retained despite the loss of the sound. The cluster is preserved in some Scots dialects. \n\nThe song \"The Gnu\" jokes about this silent \"g\" and other silent letters in English. In fact the \"g\" in \"gnu\" may always have been silent in English, since this loanword did not enter the language until the late 18th century. The trumpeter Kenny Wheeler wrote a composition titled \"Gnu High\", a pun on \"new high\".\n\nIn some types of Caribbean English, the initial clusters , , and are reduced by the loss of . The following stop is then subject to regular aspiration (or devoicing of the following approximant) in its new word-initial environment. Some examples of such pronunciations are:\n\nAccording to Wells, these reductions occur only in the broadest creole.\n\nNG-coalescence is a historical sound change by which the final cluster , pronounced (the being realized as a velar nasal by assimilation with the velar ), came to be pronounced as just – that is, the final was dropped, but the velar quality of the nasal remained. The change took place in educated London speech around the end of the 16th century, and explains why there is no sound at the end of words like \"fang\", \"sing\", \"wrong\" and \"tongue\" in the standard varieties of Modern English.\n\nThe change in fact applies not only at the end of a word, but generally at the end of a morpheme. If a word ending in \"-ng\" is followed by a suffix or is compounded with another word, the pronunciation normally remains. For example, in the words \"fangs\", \"sings\", \"singing\", \"singer\", \"wronged\", \"wrongly\", \"hangman\", there is no sound. An exception is the comparative and superlative forms of adjectives: in the words \"longer/longest\", \"stronger/strongest\", \"younger/youngest\", the is pronounced in most accents.\n\nIn other cases (when it is not morpheme-final), word-internal \"-ng-\" does not show the effects of coalescence, and the pronunciation is retained, as in \"finger\" and \"angle\". This means that the words \"finger\" and \"singer\" do not rhyme in most modern varieties of English, although they did in Middle English. The process of NG-coalescence might therefore be referred to as the \"singer–finger split\".\n\nSome accents, however, do not show the full effects of NG-coalescence as described above, and in these accents \"sing\" may be found with , the suffix \"-ing\" may be pronounced (though G-dropping is another possibility), and \"singer\" may rhyme with \"finger\". This is particularly associated with English English accents in an area of northern England (especially Lancashire) and the West Midlands, including the cities of Birmingham (see Brummie), Manchester, Liverpool (see Scouse), Sheffield and Stoke-on-Trent. It is also associated with some American English accents in the New York City area.\n\nOn the other hand, in some accents of the west of Scotland and Ulster, NG-coalescence is extended to morpheme-internal position, so that \"finger\" is pronounced , thus rhyming with \"singer\" (although the is not dropped before a stressed syllable, as in \"engage\").\n\nIt is because of NG-coalescence that is now normally regarded one of the phonemes of standard English. In Middle English, the can be regarded as an allophone of , occurring before velar consonants, but in Modern English, in view of minimal pairs such as \"pan–pang\" and \"sin–sing\", that analysis no longer appears to hold. Nevertheless, some linguists (particularly generativists) do regard a word like \"sing\" as being underlyingly , positing a rule that deletes after a nasal before a morpheme boundary, after the nasal has undergone assimilation. A problem with this view is that there are a few words in which is followed neither by a velar nor a morpheme boundary (such as \"gingham\", and \"dinghy\" and \"Singapore\" for those speakers who pronounce them without ), and some in which the is not deleted before a morpheme boundary (\"longer\" etc., as noted above).\n\nThe above-mentioned accents which lack NG-coalescence may more easily be analyzed as lacking a phoneme . The same may apply to those where NG-coalescence is extended to morpheme-internal position, since here a more consistent -deletion rule can be formulated.\n\nG-dropping is a popular name for the feature of speech whereby is used in place of the standard in weak syllables. This applies especially to the \"-ing\" ending of verbs, but also in other words such as \"morning\", \"nothing\", \"ceiling\", \"Buckingham\", etc. G-dropping speakers may pronounce this syllable as or (reducing to a syllabic [n] in some cases), while non-G-dropping speakers have , or more rarely or .\n\nRelative to the great majority of modern dialects, which have NG-coalescence, G-dropping does not involve the dropping of any sound, simply the replacement of the velar nasal with the alveolar nasal. The name derives from the apparent orthographic consequence of replacing the sound written with that normally written . The spelling \"-in' \" is sometimes used to indicate that a speaker uses the G-dropping pronunciation, as in \"makin' \" for \"making\".\n\nThe pronunciation with rather than is a long-established one. Old English verbs had a present participle in \"-ende\" and a verbal noun (gerund) form in \"-ing(e)\". These merged into a single form, written \"-ing\", but not necessarily spoken as such – the pronunciation may be inherited from the former distinct present participle form. The variant appears to have been fashionable generally during the 18th century, with the alternative being adopted in educated speech around the 1820s, possibly as a spelling pronunciation.\n\nToday, G-dropping is a feature of colloquial and non-standard speech of all regions, including stereotypically of Cockney, Southern American English and African American Vernacular English. Its use is highly correlated with the socioeconomic class of the speaker, with speakers of lower classes using with greater frequency. It has also been found to be more common among men than women, and less common in more formal styles of speech.\n\nThe fact that the pronunciation was formerly associated with certain upper-class speech is reflected in the phrase \"huntin’, shootin’ and fishin’\" (used in referring to country gentry who frequently engaged in such field sports). Further evidence that this pronunciation was once standard comes from old rhymes, as in this couplet from John Gay's 1732 pastoral \"Acis and Galatea\", set to music by Handel:\n\nIn later Middle English, the final cluster was reduced to just (the plum-plumb merger). This affects words such as \"lamb\" and \"plumb\", as well as derived forms with suffixes, such as \"lambs\", \"lambing\", \"plumbed\", \"plumber\".\n\nBy analogy with words like these, certain other words ending in , which had no historical sound, had a silent letter added to their spelling by way of hypercorrection. Such words include \"limb\" and \"crumb\".\n\nWhere the final cluster occurred, this was reduced to (the him-hymn merger), as in \"column\", \"autumn\", \"damn\", \"solemn\". (Compare French \"automne\", where the cluster has been reduced to .) Both sounds are nonetheless still pronounced before vowels in certain derivatives, such as \"autumnal\" and \"solemnity\".\n\nGeneral reduction of final consonant clusters occurs in African American Vernacular English and Caribbean English. The new final consonant may be slightly lengthened as an effect.\n\nExamples are:\n\nThe plurals of \"test\" and \"desk\" may become \"tesses\" and \"desses\" by the same rule that gives plural \"messes\" from singular \"mess\".\n\nWhen a consonant cluster ending in a stop is followed by another consonant or cluster in the next syllable, the final stop in the first syllable is often elided. This may happen within words or across word boundaries. Examples of stops that will often be elided in this way include the in \"postman\" and the in \"cold cuts\" or \"band saw\".\n\nHistorically, similar reductions have taken place before syllabic consonants in certain words, leading to the silent in words like \"castle\" and \"listen\". This change took place around the 17th century. In the word \"often\", the sound later came to be re-inserted by some speakers as a spelling pronunciation.\n\nAn earlier reduction that took place in early Middle English was the change of to (the sent-cent merger). This led to the modern sound of soft.\n\nFor many speakers, an epenthetic is inserted in the final cluster , making it identical or very similar to the cluster . For example, the words \"prince\" and \"prints\" have come to be homophones or nearly so.\n\nThe epenthesis is a natural consequence of the transition from the nasal to the fricative ; if the raising of the soft palate (which converts a nasal to an oral sound) is completed before the release of the tongue tip (which enables a fricative sound), an intervening stop naturally results. The merger of and is not necessarily complete, however; the duration of the epenthetic in has been found to be often shorter (and the longer) than in the underlying cluster . Some speakers preserve a clearer distinction, with \"prince\" having , and \"prints\" having or . The epenthesis does not occur between syllables, in words like \"consider\".\n\nThe merger of and is also possible, making \"bans\" and \"pens\" sound like \"bands\" and \"pends\". However, this is less common than the merger of and described above, and in rapid speech may involve the elision of the from rather than epenthesis in .\n\nEpenthesis of a stop between a nasal and a fricative can also occur in other environments, for example: \n\nAn epenthetic often intervenes in the cluster in the word \"dreamt\", making it rhyme with \"attempt\".\n\nSome originally epenthetic consonants have become part of the established pronunciation of words. This applies, for instance, to the in words like \"thimble\", \"grumble\" and \"scramble\".\n\nFor the insertion of glottal stops before certain consonants, see Glottalization below.\n\nIn English as in other languages, assimilation of adjacent consonants is common, particularly of a nasal with a following consonant. This can occur within or between words. For example, the in \"encase\" is often pronounced (becoming a velar nasal by way of assimilation with the following velar stop ), and the in \"ten men\" likely becomes , assimilating with the following bilabial nasal . Other cases of assimilation also occur, such as pronunciation of the in \"bad boy\" as . Voicing assimilation determines the sound of the endings \"-s\" (as in plurals, possessives and verb forms) and \"-ed\" (in verb forms): these are voiced (, ) following a voiced consonant (or vowel), but voiceless (, ) after a voiceless consonant, as in \"gets\", \"knocked\".\n\nWhile there are many accents (such as Cockney) in which syllable-final is frequently glottalized (realized as a glottal stop, ) regardless of what follows it, the glottaling of in clusters is a feature even of standard accents, such as RP. There, may be heard for in such words and phrases as \"quite good\", \"quite nice\", \"nights\". More precisely, it occurs in RP when appears in the syllable coda, is preceded by a vowel, liquid or nasal, and it is followed by another consonant except (normally) a liquid or semivowel in the same word as in \"mattress\".\n\nAnother possibility is pre-glottalization (or glottal reinforcement), where a glottal stop is inserted before a syllable-final stop, rather than replacing it. That can happen before , and or also before the affricate . It can occur in RP in the same environments as those mentioned above, without the final restriction so a glottal stop may appear before the , as in \"mattress\". It can also occur before a pause as in \"quite!\" spoken alone but not in \"quite easy\". In the case of , pre-glottalization is common even before a vowel, as in \"teacher\".\n\nAccording to Wells, this pre-glottalization originated in the 20th century (at least, it was not recorded until then). Glottalization of spread rapidly during the 20th century.\n\nFinal consonant clusters starting with sometimes undergo metathesis, meaning that the order of the consonants is switched. For example, the word \"ask\" may be pronounced like \"ax\", with the and the switched.\n\nThis example has a long history: the Old English verb \"áscian\" also appeared as \"acsian\", and both forms continued into Middle English, the latter, metathesizing to \"ask\". The form \"axe\" appears in Chaucer: \"I axe, why the fyfte man Was nought housband to the Samaritan?\" (\"Wife of Bath's Prologue\", 1386), and was considered acceptable in literary English until about 1600. It persists in some dialects of rural England as well as in Ulster Scots as , and in Jamaican English as , from where it has entered London speech as .\n\nS-cluster metathesis is common in African American Vernacular English, although it is one of the most stigmatized features of AAVE, often commented on by teachers. Examples of possible AAVE pronunciations include:\n\nFor some speakers of African American Vernacular English, the consonant cluster is pronounced as . For example, the word \"street\" may be pronounced as .\n\nThe form has been found to occur in Gullah and in the speech of some young African Americans born in the Southern United States. It is reported to be a highly stigmatized feature, with children who use it often being referred to speech pathologists.\n\nYod-rhotacization is a process that occurs for some Southern AAVE speakers, where is rhotacized to in consonant clusters, causing pronunciations like:\n\nCompare yod-dropping and yod-coalescence, described above (and also the coil–curl merger, which features the reverse process, → ).\n\n"}
{"id": "1927365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1927365", "title": "Mike A. Myers Stadium", "text": "Mike A. Myers Stadium\n\nMike A. Myers Stadium is the home of The University of Texas Longhorn track and field and soccer teams and also home to the USATF Elite Running Circuit Austin Track Club. The 20,000-seat stadium hosts the historic Texas Relays annually in April, as well as the University Interscholastic League track and field state championship in May.\n\nIn 1996, plans were made to construct the stadium in response to the need to expand Darrell K. Royal-Texas Memorial Stadium and convert it to a football-specific facility, the desire to move track and field events to a venue that was more fan and athlete friendly, and the need to construct an appropriate on-campus facility to house the varsity soccer program begun in 1994. Construction began in 1997, and the stadium was opened in March 1999, just in time to host the Texas Relays. The stadium is named for Mike Myers, a residential community developer who lives in Dallas, who is also a graduate of UT's law and business schools, in recognition of his $3 million donation to finance construction. The opening of the stadium now meant that track and field events could take place in the same venue; previously, field events had been conducted at nearby Clark Field out of concern for the condition of the football stadium's turf.\n\nThe stadium hosted the 2002 NCAA Women's Soccer Championship, the 2004 NCAA Men's and Women's Outdoor Track and Field Championships, and the 2003 Big 12 Conference Outdoor Championship. In April 2018, the NCAA awarded the 2019 and 2020 NCAA Men's & Women's Outdoor Track & Field Championships to the University of Texas at Austin.\n\nThe stadium track is a nine lane European oval, with straightaways of 82 meters and curves of 118 meters in length, which creates a longer, smoother curve than the typical 100 m-by-100 m configuration. This smoother curve has given the track a reputation as one of the fastest tracks in the United States, if not the world. The field events area consists of several throwing circles, dual jump lanes, and two high jump aprons. The facility also houses a field house consisting of a press box, locker rooms for the UT track and soccer teams, visitors' and officials locker rooms, a specialized training room, and a lounge for track and soccer athletes and coaches. There is a scoreboard at each end of the stadium, and full lighting allows events to be conducted at night. On the west side of the stadium stands a 1,200-space parking garage.\n\nESPN's \"College Gameday\" was on hand at Myers Stadium on October 22, 2005 to preview and discuss the football game versus the Texas Tech Red Raiders and again on September 9, 2006 against the Ohio State Buckeyes. The \"Gameday\" set was situated to take advantage of the dramatic views of downtown Austin and the UT Tower from the stadium.\n\n"}
{"id": "1927387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1927387", "title": "River crossing puzzle", "text": "River crossing puzzle\n\nA river crossing puzzle is a type of puzzle in which the object is to carry items from one river bank to another, usually in the fewest trips. The difficulty of the puzzle may arise from restrictions on which or how many items can be transported at the same time, or which or how many items may be safely left together. The setting may vary cosmetically, for example, by replacing the river by a bridge. The earliest known river-crossing problems occur in the manuscript \"Propositiones ad Acuendos Juvenes\" (), traditionally said to be written by Alcuin. The earliest copies of this manuscript date from the 9th century; it contains three river-crossing problems, including the fox, goose and bag of beans puzzle and the jealous husbands problem. \n\nWell-known river-crossing puzzles include:\n\n\nThese problems may be analyzed using graph-theoretic methods, by dynamic programming, or by integer programming.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1927395", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1927395", "title": "Posterior cranial fossa", "text": "Posterior cranial fossa\n\nThe posterior cranial fossa is part of the cranial cavity, located between the foramen magnum and tentorium cerebelli. It contains the brainstem and cerebellum.\n\nThis is the most inferior of the fossae. It houses the cerebellum, medulla and pons.\nAnteriorly it extends to the apex of the petrous temporal. Posteriorly it is enclosed by the occipital bone. Laterally portions of the squamous temporal and mastoid part of the temporal bone form its walls.\n\nThe most conspicuous, large opening in the floor of the fossa. It transmits the medulla, the ascending portions of the spinal accessory nerve (XI), and the vertebral arteries.\n\nLies in the anterior wall of the posterior cranial fossa. It transmits the facial (VII) and vestibulocochlear (VIII) cranial nerves into a canal in the petrous temporal bone.\n\nLies between the inferior edge of the petrous temporal bone and the adjacent occipital bone and transmits the internal jugular vein (actually begins here), the glossopharyngeal (IX), the vagus (X) and the accessory (XI) nerves.\n\nLies at the anterolateral margins of the f. magnum and transmits the hypoglossal (XII) nerve.\n\nAlso visible in the posterior cranial fossa are depressions caused by the venous sinuses returning blood from the brain to the venous circulation:\nRight and left transverse sinuses which meet at the confluence of sinuses (marked by the internal occipital protuberance).\n\nThe transverse sinuses pass horizontally from the most posterior point of the occiput.\n\nWhere the apex of the petrous temporal meets the squamous temporal, the transverse sinuses lead into sigmoid (S-shaped) sinuses (one on each side).\n\nThese pass along the articulation between the posterior edge of the petrous temporal bone and the anterior edge of the occipital bones to the jugular foramen, where the sigmoid sinus becomes the internal jugular vein.\n\nNote that a superior petrosal sinus enters the junction of the transverse and sigmoid sinuses. Also an inferior petrosal sinus enters the sigmoid sinus near the jugular foramen.\n\nThe posterior cranial fossa is formed in the endocranium, and holds the most basal parts of the brain.\n\nAn underdeveloped posterior cranial fossa can cause Arnold–Chiari malformation. These can be either acquired or congenital disorders.\n\n"}
{"id": "1927403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1927403", "title": "Liberty Township, Logan County, Ohio", "text": "Liberty Township, Logan County, Ohio\n\nLiberty Township is one of the seventeen townships of Logan County, Ohio, United States. The 2000 census found 3,126 people living in the township.\n\nLocated in the southern part of the county, it borders the following townships:\n\nTwo municipalities are located in Liberty Township: most of the village of West Liberty, in the south, and part of the city of Bellefontaine, the county seat of Logan County, in the north.\n\nLiberty Township was organized in 1836. It is one of twenty-five Liberty Townships statewide.\n\nThe township is governed by a three-member board of trustees, who are elected in November of odd-numbered years to a four-year term beginning on the following January 1. Two are elected in the year after the presidential election and one is elected in the year before it. There is also an elected fiscal officer, who serves a four-year term beginning on April 1 of the year after the election, which is held in November of the year before the presidential election. Vacancies in the fiscal officer position or on the board of trustees are filled by the remaining trustees.\n\nIn the elections of November 2011, David Turner and Chris Foust were elected without opposition in the elections for the positions of township trustee and fiscal officer respectively.\n\nU.S. Route 68 is the most important highway in Liberty Township. Other significant highways in the township include State Routes 245 and 508.\n\n"}
{"id": "1927416", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1927416", "title": "Ivančice", "text": "Ivančice\n\nIvančice (; , ) is a town in the South Moravian Region of the Czech Republic, south-west of Brno. The town has approximately 9,700 inhabitants. It lies on the confluence of Oslava, Jihlava and rivers.\n\nIvančice was first mentioned in 1221, and from 1288 it had the status of a royal town. In the fifteenth century the town came into the hands of the von Lipá family, and it stayed in their possession until the Battle of White Mountain. In the sixteenth century, the town was an important centre for the Unity of the Brethren; Ivančice was home to Jan Blahoslav, bishop of the brethren and Czech linguist. In the Thirty Years' War Ivančice was recatholicised and lost its previous significance.\n\nIvančice was the birthplace of Art Nouveau painter and decorative artist Alphonse Mucha. The town is now home to a museum of the life of actor Vladimír Menšík.\n\nThe Jewish community is one of the oldest in Moravia. Local tradition says that Jews originally arrived with Roman troops in the first century, although they were expelled from the town later.\n\nThe rule of the House of Premysl (895–1306) was a period of relative comfort and prosperity for the Jews of Ivančice. They worked with their Christian neighbors to build the town walls, and also to defend them. However, they were not allowed to carry arms or to work in the government.\n\nA Jewish ghetto was established during the 14th century, and was placed outside the town proper. Later it was moved inside the town walls but administered as an independent municipality, with its own Jewish mayor. During this period Jews inside the ghetto as well as various outside settlements were under the protection of the nobles of the House of Pernstein. In 1454 Jewish refugees from other towns in Moravia as well as from Austria found refuge in Ivančice, making it the largest Jewish community in Moravia for a time. The reign of King Ferdinand of Habsburg in the early 16th century placed economic restrictions on the Jews of Ivančice. The Counter Reformation and the Thirty Years' War (1618–1648) reduced the number of Protestants living in Ivančice, while at the same time the Jewish community grew thanks to the arrival of refugees from Bohemia. This growth resulted in an edict issued in 1650 forbidding any Jews to inhabit Moravia who had not resided there prior to 1618.\n\nA formal Jewish community, including a rabbi, dyanim (religious court), a gabbai, a chevra kaddisha, and a rabbinical school was established during the 17th century. The first rabbi was Abraham, son of Hirsch Foreis, who served in the second half of the 17th century. His successor was Rabbi David of Rakov, who was succeeded by Rabbi Joseph Rakov, his son. He was followed by Rabbi Elia ben Schmuel, Rabbi Nathan Zelig of Cracow, Rabbi Issachar ber Oppenheim (1829-1859), his son Rabbi Joachim Oppenheim, Rabbi Dr. Jacob Tauber, and Rabbi Dr. Hermann Handel (1881–1925). From 1925 on, the community followed the rabbi of Kanits, Dr. Heinrich Flesch.\n\nThe town's original synagogue was built in the 16th century. That building was replaced in 1853 by a structure which survives today, and is still in use. It was remodeled in 2008.\n\nThe Jewish cemetery dates to 1552, the date of the oldest tombstone. It was expanded in the 17th century, and again in the 19th century. A ceremonial hall was built in 1902.\n\nBefore World War II, there were a total of 73 homes in the Jewish Quarter, of which 52 remain. At 1 Krumlovská Street there is a plaque memorializing the concentration camp where Jews were imprisoned from 1938–1942, and from which they were sent off to other camps for extermination. \n\n\nIvančice is twinned with:\n\n"}
{"id": "1927417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1927417", "title": "Sullivan Square station", "text": "Sullivan Square station\n\nSullivan Square is a rapid transit station in Boston, Massachusetts. It serves the MBTA's Orange Line, and is also a major bus transfer point. It is located just west of the Sullivan Square traffic circle in the Charlestown neighborhood, adjacent to East Somerville. The modern subway station was built in 1975, and replaced an earlier Charlestown Elevated station established in 1901.\n\nSullivan Square and its station are named for James Sullivan, an early 19th-century Governor of Massachusetts and first president of the Middlesex Canal Co. A plaque commemorating the canal is on the column right of the entrance to the station.\n\nThe B&M's East Somerville station building was closed in 1927; in February 1932, with just a few trains a day stopping, the railroad successfully petitioned the Public Utilities Commission to abandon the station entirely. However, the station remained in use, served by a small number of trains on both the Eastern Division and Western Division. On April 18, 1958, the Boston and Maine Railroad received permission from the Public Utilities Commission to drastically curtail its suburban commuter service, including abandoning branches, closing stations, and cutting trains. Among the approved cuts was the closure of all Eastern Division service south of Lynn, including the Saugus Branch plus mainline stations at East Somerville, Everett, Chelsea, and Forbes. The Saugus Branch and mainline stations were closed on May 16, 1958.\n\nThe first rapid transit station at Sullivan Square opened on June 10, 1901 as part of the Charlestown Elevated rapid transit line, a predecessor to the modern Orange Line. The original elevated station was considered a crown jewel of the \"El\", along with a similar station complex at Dudley Square in Roxbury. Surface streetcars ran up to 10 stub-end tracks at the level of the elevated stations, allowing cross-platform transfer underneath an expansive trainshed. The station was designed as a major transfer point, with many streetcar lines that had gone downtown truncated to Sullivan. \n\nOver time, deferred maintenance on the Charlestown Elevated and Sullivan Square station took its toll. A large fire also caused significant damage to the station's upper level on November 1, 1967. The Haymarket North Extension was constructed in the early 1970s along the Haverhill Line right-of-way, with a relocated new Sullivan Square station under the elevated I-93 expressway. The Charlestown Elevated closed on April 4, 1975; the Haymarket North Extension opened as far as Sullivan Square on April 7. The new Sullivan station was the terminus of the extension for five months until Wellington opened on September 6, 1975.\n\nThere were proposals to renovate the cavernous old trainshed for use as retail or gallery spaces, but no such conversion took place; the massive structure was subsequently razed in 1975 and repurposed as an MBTA service vehicle parking lot. Only supports for a footbridge crossing the traffic circle remain of the elevated station. A similar structure at the Dudley Square station on the Orange Line was carefully preserved, lowered to ground level, and reopened in 1993 as a major bus transfer station.\n\nSullivan station was not originally accessible. Construction of elevators at Sullivan and Wellington began in 1991.\n\nSullivan Square Station was a proposed stop on the MBTA's planned Urban Ring Project. The Urban Ring was to be a circumferential Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) line designed to connect the current MBTA Lines to reduce strain on the downtown transfer stations. Plans from 2008 also called for the addition of platforms to serve the adjacent Haverhill and Newburyport/Rockport commuter rail lines. The project was cancelled in 2010.\n\nThe MBTA plans to add three elevators to the station, including an elevator to the lower busway. The work will also include replacement of the existing elevators, and two footbridges to connect the new elevators. A design contract was awarded in April 2020.\n\nSullivan Square has long been a major transfer point for surface transit. The original elevated station had surface and elevated streetcar loops to serve a number of BERy and Eastern Massachusetts Street Railway lines. The modern station has a two-level busway that serves 13 MBTA bus routes to Medford, Everett, Malden and other surrounding cities:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1927435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1927435", "title": "Shigeo Fukuda", "text": "Shigeo Fukuda\n\nFukuda was born on February 4, 1932 in Tokyo to a family that was involved in manufacturing toys. After the end of World War II, he became interested in the minimalist Swiss Style of graphic design, and graduated from Tokyo National University of Fine Arts and Music in 1956.\n\n\"The New York Times\" described how Fukuda's posters \"distilled complex concepts into compelling images of logo-simplicity\". His commercial work included his creation of the official poster for the 1970 World's Fair in Osaka. A 1980 poster created for Amnesty International features a clenched fist interwoven with barbed wire, with the letter \"S\" in the word \"Amnesty\" at the top of the poster formed from a linked shackle. \"Victory 1945\", one of his best-known works, features a projectile heading straight at the opening of the barrel of a cannon. A pair of posters created to celebrate Earth Day include a design showing the Earth as a seed opening against a solid sea-blue background and \"1982 Happy Earth Day\", which shows an axe with its head against the ground and a small branch sprouting upwards from its handle.\n\nIn 1987, Fukuda was inducted into the Art Directors Club Hall of Fame in New York City, which described him as \"Japan's consummate visual communicator\", making him the first Japanese designer chosen for this recognition. The Art Directors Club noted the \"bitingly satirical commentary on the senselessness of war\" shown in \"Victory 1945\", which won him the grand prize at the 1975 Warsaw Poster Contest, a competition whose proceeds went to the Peace Fund Movement.\n\nHis home outside Tokyo featured a front door that would appear far away from someone approaching the house. This door was a visual trick, with the actual entrance to the house being an unornamented white door designed to blend in seamlessly with the walls of the house.\n\nFukuda died January 11, 2009, after suffering a subarachnoid hemorrhage.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1927439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1927439", "title": "Icahn Stadium", "text": "Icahn Stadium\n\nIcahn Stadium is a 5,000 seat track and field and multipurpose facility located on Randalls Island in Manhattan, New York City. Designed within the former site of Downing Stadium, it opened on April 23, 2005. Icahn Stadium is named after American businessman Carl Icahn, who made a $10 million donation towards the construction of the new stadium. The stadium features an International Association of Athletics Federations (IAAF) Class 1 certified running track with a 400-meter Mondo Super X Performance surface, and it has been the site of many international, national, and regional track and field events.\n\nIcahn Stadium was built to replace Downing Stadium, which was originally opened in 1936 as part of a larger New York City Parks project that included the construction of the Triborough Bridge. The opening of Downing Stadium made history as the facility hosted the U.S. Olympic Trials in 1936, at which Jesse Owens qualified for two events in the upcoming Berlin Olympics. Downing Stadium also made history in 1939 as the site of the first televised college football game, Fordham vs. Waynesburg. The site went was subsequently home to the New York Cosmos soccer team, as well as various sporting events and summer concerts. The stadium lights, which had been taken from Ebbets Field after it was torn down, were left in place to light the new field.\n\nAfter years of use, the old facility was in need of renovation. In order to maximize the potential of the site, the old stadium was razed, and Icahn Stadium was constructed in its place along with Field 10, a FIFA-certified soccer field, on the north side. The track and field built is one of only five International Association of Athletics Federations Class 1-certified tracks in the United States (along with Hutsell-Rosen Track, Hayward Field, John McDonnell Field and Rock Chalk Park). The 5,000 seat stadium is partially sheltered by a cantilevered roof, and is illuminated by a pair of lighting towers. In addition, the soccer field on the north of the stadium is outfitted with a scoreboard, fencing, lighting, and bleachers for spectator events.\n\nRun by the Randalls Island Park Alliance (RIPA), Icahn Stadium serves the residents of New York City and beyond. It houses some of RIPA’s various Randalls Island Kids (RIK) programs, including the Jesse Owens track club, RIK Dance programs, and components of RIK summer camp. RIPA was founded in 1992 as a public–private partnership to work on behalf of Randalls Island Park. The Alliance, in conjunction with City leadership and the local community, works to realize the Island’s unique potential by developing sports and recreational facilities, restoring its vast natural environment, reclaiming and maintaining parkland, and sponsoring community-linked programs for the children of New York City. RIPA runs free youth sports programs that bring over 14,000 under-resourced public school children from Harlem and the South Bronx to the island annually.\n\nSince its opening, Icahn Stadium has hosted more than 200,000 high school, college and professional athletes and spectators during the track season. Each year, the number of meets and events that are scheduled has grown, bringing larger numbers of people to the facility.\n\nIn 2005 the Reebok Grand Prix was created and held at the stadium. Currently known as the Adidas Grand Prix of the Diamond League, the annual summer tournament welcomes top runners from around the world. From its inception it has distinguished itself as one of top meets to feature Olympic and World Champions.\n\n\nIn December 2012, the New York Lizards of Major League Lacrosse announced that the team would play two home games at Icahn Stadium for the 2013 season. The team played at the venue on June 6 and 13, 2013.\n\nOn June 27, 2013, the New York Cosmos revealed that their annual Cosmos Copa NYC soccer tournament would hold its final at the stadium, as many of the games were held at Randalls Island. Due to scheduling issues, the final was relocated. However, the site was used as a venue for the 2014 Cosmos Copa group stages.\n\nIcahn Stadium was incorporated as a training center into the New York City bid for the 2012 Summer Olympics. Future New York City Olympic bids will also potentially use the stadium as a training facility, because it already meets IAAF specifications.\n\n"}
{"id": "1927447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1927447", "title": "Coffeehouse (event)", "text": "Coffeehouse (event)\n\nA coffeehouse is a social event, often held to raise funds for and/or generate awareness of a social cause or other event.\n\nThe name \"coffeehouse\" is derived from the limited menu which is typically available at the social event: coffee is usually the featured beverage, together with other non-alcoholic beverages such as soda, juice and tea. Desserts and snack foods may round out the menu.\n\nFolk music and other acoustic concerts are the primary activity at many coffee houses. Other coffeehouses allow patrons to sing, dance, read poetry, perform stand-up comedy, or demonstrate other talents as entertainment during the event. Still other coffeehouses feature lectures and presentations to raise awareness about social issues such as political oppression, food/freshwater shortages, and/or outbreaks of disease in various countries. Some coffeehouses may facilitate other activities such as a mass letter writing campaign or signing petitions.\n\nSome coffeehouses have free admission, but others require a small entrance fee. If money is collected as an entrance fee, it is often donated in whole or in part to the social cause, after covering expenses.\n\nCoffeehouses are often sponsored by a permanent, semi-commercial coffeehouse venue, such as the well-known Club Passim and Caffe Lena. Churches, non-profits, school groups, and other private groups also sponsor coffee houses in church meeting rooms, colleges, and high schools. In particular, schools often sponsor coffeehouses to allow students to socialize in an explicitly non-alcoholic environment.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1927456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1927456", "title": "Hermitage, Tennessee", "text": "Hermitage, Tennessee\n\nHermitage, Tennessee, is a neighborhood in Metropolitan Nashville, Tennessee, located in eastern Davidson County, adjacent to – and named in honor of – The Hermitage, the historic home of Andrew Jackson, seventh President of the United States. Although the area is incorporated as part of the Metropolitan Government of Nashville and Davidson County, it maintains its own identity as a residential and commercial suburban area.\n\nHermitage is located immediately to the east of Donelson, a Nashville borough named in honor of Andrew Jackson's father-in-law John Donelson, and just to the west of Mount Juliet in adjacent Wilson County. Once a rural area, Hermitage is now a thriving district with a highly developed network of retail stores and typical suburban tract houses, ranging from the \"starter home\" to the \"executive residence\". The technology headquarters of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu, one of the Big Four auditors, is located in Hermitage, sprawling across and employing more than 1,000 people. Also including a range of apartment dwellings, Hermitage is a small example of urban sprawl.\n\nMajor thoroughfares include U.S. Route 70, Interstate 40, and State Route 45. The neighborhood also has a station on the new Music City Star commuter rail service and is home to the Tennessee Secondary School Athletic Association, the organization that administers junior and senior high school sporting events.\n\nHermitage is divided from Donelson by the Stones River and its bottom lands, Clover Bottom. It has benefited from the impoundment of the Stones by J. Percy Priest Dam, a nearby United States Army Corps of Engineers project that provides a number of recreation opportunities, particularly in the summer months. The dam has also contributed to the desirability and value of the area's real estate. Hermitage and Donelson are often thought of as something of a unit and even have a joint Chamber of Commerce and Christmas parade.\n\nHermitage is generally considered to be roughly included in United States Postal Service ZIP code 37076. The 2016 population estimate is 37,814.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1927460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1927460", "title": "Police lineup", "text": "Police lineup\n\nA police lineup (in American English) or identity parade (in British English) is a process by which a crime victim or witness's putative identification of a suspect is confirmed to a level that can count as evidence at trial.\n\nThe suspect, along with several \"fillers\" or \"foils\"—people of similar height, build, and complexion who may be prisoners, actors, police officers, or volunteers—stand side-by-side, both facing and in profile. There is crucial information that should be conveyed to the eyewitness prior to viewing the lineup. It is necessary to inform the eyewitness that it is possible the perpetrator is not present in the lineup. The eyewitness should also be told that they do not have to choose one of the people from the lineup. Including these details has shown to result in fewer misidentifications. The lineup sometimes takes place in a room for the purpose, one which may feature a one-way mirror to allow a witness to remain anonymous, and may include markings on the wall to aid identifying the person's height.\n\nFor evidence from a lineup to be admissible in court, the lineup itself must be conducted fairly. The police may not say or do anything that persuades the witness to identify the suspect that they prefer. This includes loading the lineup with people who look very dissimilar to the suspect.\n\nThe three main forms of police lineups are photographs of suspects, videos, or the original form of physically present lineups. Where photos and videos are often more practical and convenient, it is the identification where suspects are physically present that has proven to demonstrate improved identification. \nPhotographs of the suspect and fillers can be shown to the identifier in what is called a \"photo-lineup\", or a \"six pack\". If the victim or witness successfully identifies the suspect from among the fillers, the identification is considered valid. There is some research into using other methods of photo-lineup that involve the witness sequentially viewing photographs rather than simultaneously.\n\nThe sequential method is considered more accurate because it prevents the witness from looking at all the suspects and merely selecting the person that most resembles the guilty person.\n\nA \"show-up\" is another alternative, in which a suspect is individually shown to a witness.\n\nMany UK police forces use Video Identification Parade Electronic Recording (VIPER), a digital system wherein witnesses view video recordings of suspects and unrelated volunteers.\n\nSequential lineups is one of the two lineup methods used for eyewitnesses to identify criminals in police station. In a standard sequential lineup, the suspects or their photos are presented one at a time to the witnesses only once. Witnesses make decisions about each individual suspect before the next one is shown and they do not know the total number of suspects.\n\nAlthough it is hard to pinpoint exactly when sequential lineups were first studied, the knowledge that simultaneous lineups often failed and convicted an innocent person has been common knowledge for many years. The advance of the popularity of sequential lineups can be traced to the Innocence Project and Gary Wells. He is a researcher of sequential lineups and has many studies that show that sequential lineups lead to fewer wrongful convictions. The early studies of sequential lineups found that there was a significant difference in the wrongful conviction of innocent persons. Since these early studies there has been a push to increase the accuracy of eyewitness memory even more. \n\nOne of the ways this is accomplished is by having not just sequential lineups, but also double-blind sequential lineups. A double-blind sequential lineup is conducted by making sure that neither the witness nor the person conducting the lineup has any idea who the real suspect is. This eliminates any bias the person conducting the lineup may have on the witness. The research for double-blind studies had shown that \"now we have proof from the field that witnesses who view double-blind sequential lineups are just as likely to pick the suspect, and perhaps more importantly, less likely to make a misidentification by picking a filler in the lineup.\" \n\nThe study of sequential lineups is far from being finished and there is still much left to prove. There are many other ways sequential lineups still need to be studied and Gary Wells is not finished with his research regarding sequential lineups. \"The New York Times\" reported that Wells will continue his research by continuing to \"examine the data gathered to gauge the level of certainty of witnesses and the effect of factors like cross-racial identification on accuracy.\" \n\nThe two types of lineups are sequential lineup and simultaneous lineup. The difference between two lineups is how the suspects are presented. In simultaneous lineup, the suspects or photos are presented in a group (commonly six or nine).\nPeople engage in absolute judgment during sequential lineups. For each suspect/ photo, they are asked whether or not they recognize the person. Witnesses have to depend only on their memory to make the judgment. In simultaneous lineups, people engage in relative judgment. Because there are more than one suspects presented at a time, witnesses may pick the one who most closely resembles the culprit relative to others.\nResearch findings on lineup methods generally suggest that both criminal identification and mistaken rates are higher in a simultaneous lineup than in a sequential lineup. The superiority of the two methods are arguable and there are research evidence supporting each side.\nIn a culprit-present situation (correct answer available), the correct identification rate is about 14% higher in a simultaneous lineup than in a sequential lineup. The filler selection rates for both groups are 24%.[3]\n\nIn a culprit-absent situation (all innocents), the mistaken identification rate is about 21% lower in a sequential lineup than in a simultaneous lineup.\n\nA sequential lineup lap is showing the suspects repeatedly after the first round while in a standard sequential lineup eyewitnesses can only view them once.\n\nThe logic for a sequential lineup lap is that viewing the suspects again would increase the accuracy of correct identification since the eyewitnesses shall be more certain about their answer.\n\nResearch on sequential lineup laps found that viewing the suspects for one more time has a large influence on witnesses' performance. Significant portion of witnesses moved from no-choice to choice, some changed answers and their confidence went up. Both correct identification rate and mistaken rate increased in sequential lineup lap when target was present; only mistaken rate increased when target was absent.\n\nWhile many states agree that sequential lineups are able to lower the wrongful conviction of innocents, they also notice that sequential lineups lead to more of a chance that the guilty would be overlooked and not convicted of their crime. Because of this many states do not want to implement a law that mandates that sequential lineups are the only lineup that can be used. These states are willing to accept the benefits of sequential lineups but do not want to give themselves only one option when conducting a lineup. There are different feelings about the advantages and disadvantages of sequential lineups. Gronlund, Carlson, Dailey, and Goodsell state one of the disadvantages, \"Sequential lineups do not enhance accuracy but rather make eyewitnesses more conservative in their willingness to choose. Although this is desirable when the police have an innocent suspect, it is problematic if the police have a guilty one.\" But Lindsay, Mansour, Beaudry, Leach, and Bertrand show one of the advantages of sequential lineups estimating that with them between 570 to 1425 innocent people will not be wrongfully convicted that would be with simultaneous lineups. According to the Innocence Blog on the Innocence Project website, many states and law enforcement agencies have already started to implement the tools that would be necessary to run double-blind sequential lineups but have yet to fully embrace these tools.\n\n\"Cutler and Penrod (1988)\" \n\nBrain L. Cutler and Steven D. Penrod conducted this study in 1988 to examine multiple variables' influence on eyewitness' accuracy during a lineup. The participants were first given a videotaped store robbery and a questionnaire, then they were asked to identify the robber in a photo lineup. They were given different videotapes, different lineups, and different instructions. There were 175 participants total and they were all undergraduate college students.\n\nThe results concerning sequential and simultaneous lineups were following:\nCorrect identification rate: 80% for sequential lineups and 76% for simultaneous lineups (total). 78% for sequential lineups and 80% for simultaneous lineups when cues were strong. 84% for sequential lineups and 58% for simultaneous lineups when cues were weak.\nMistaken rate in target-absent condition: 39% for simultaneous lineups and 19% for sequential lineups.\n\nIn this study, the correct identification rates are very much higher across all situations than normal. They also did not find a significant enough difference in correct identification rate between simultaneous and sequential lineups when the target was present. Most studies found that the correct identification rate is higher for simultaneous lineups.\n\n\"Steblay, Dysart, and Wells (2011)\"\n\nIn 2011, Steblay, Dysart, and Wells attempted to answer a debate that has been around since the concept of sequential lineups. Are they superior to simultaneous lineups? In an effort to reproduce the results found in previous studies done on sequential lineups, Steblay, Dysart, and Wells took and combined results from 72 tests from 23 different labs from across the world including Canada, the United Kingdom, the United States, Germany, and South Africa. These results included data from 13,143 people who participated as witness in the studies. In this study they found very similar results to previous studies that have been conducted. They found that sequential lineups are less likely to identify any type (whether guilty or not guilty) of a suspect than simultaneous lineups, but that when a suspect was identified he/she was more likely to be guilty using this method than a simultaneous lineup.\n\nThey found that there is an 8% difference in suspect identification between sequential and simultaneous lineups, favoring simultaneous lineups; meaning that simultaneous lineups are more likely overall to identify the guilty suspect. This finding has decreased since 2001 where there was a 15% difference in favor of simultaneous lineups. They also replicated the findings that there is about a 22% difference between sequential and simultaneous lineups regarding errors in suspect identification; meaning that sequential lineups are less likely to identify the wrong suspect.\n\nThe police can falsify the results of a lineup by giving hints to the witness. For example, they may let the witness \"accidentally\" see their preferred suspect in circumstances indicating criminality (e.g., in handcuffs) before the lineup. This is sometimes called an \"Oklahoma showup\" and has been claimed to have been used in the Caryl Chessman case.\n\nThe use of DNA evidence has allowed for greater accuracy in choosing a suspect. It is evident that misidentification is not uncommon with police lineups. In a study published by the Association for Psychological Science, scientists discovered that in a group of 349 people that had been exonerated with DNA evidence, 258 of these people were involved in mistaken eyewitness identification. \n\nMere exposure to a certain face can contribute to the illusion that an innocent person is the guilty suspect. For example, a witness might identify a receptionist as the guilty suspect simply because he or she had previously seen the receptionist's face, misattributing the familiarity to seeing the individual committing the crime instead of in his or her position as the receptionist. This concept is also connected with source-monitoring errors, in that the source of the familiarity is misattributed and unconsciously transferred to an innocent bystander. See also Familiarity heuristic.\n\nWitnesses are more likely to correctly identify the faces of those with whom they share common features, such as race, age, and gender. See also Cross-race effect, In-group favoritism, Sex differences in eyewitness memory.\n\nSubtle framing characteristics influence a witness' response to a question. For example, if a police officer asks which of the individuals in a lineup committed the crime, the wording of the question implies that one of the individuals is guilty.  This suggestion increases the likelihood that the witness will pick someone from the lineup without positive recognition.\n\nAdditionally, the overwhelming majority of witnesses will identify a suspect from a lineup even if the actual perpetrator is not included in the lineup, often depending on how the instructions for choosing a suspect are presented.  See also Framing effect (psychology).\n\nDelivering either confirming or dis-confirming feedback to witnesses identifying a suspect has been shown to distort their reported perception of the suspect in question. Providing feedback to a witness after identifying a suspect can change the way they recall the quality and clarity of their perception of the incident, the speed and certainty of their identification, and other factors, even when witnesses believed the feedback had not influenced their report. During questioning or viewing pictures in a lineup, it was found that an eyewitness made a tentative judgement that a certain picture \"might\" be the guilty suspect, to which an officer administering a lineup answered, \"okay.\" However, upon returning to that picture months later at trial, the witness expressed no doubt that the previously hypothesized picture represented the guilty suspect.\n"}
{"id": "1927468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1927468", "title": "Jefferson Township, Logan County, Ohio", "text": "Jefferson Township, Logan County, Ohio\n\nJefferson Township is one of the seventeen townships of Logan County, Ohio, United States. The 2000 census found 2,946 people in the township.\n\nLocated in the eastern part of the county, it borders the following townships:\n\nSeveral municipalities are located in Jefferson Township:\n\nCompared with most of western Ohio, Jefferson Township is quite hilly. Campbell Hill, the highest point in Ohio, is located inside the Bellefontaine city limits in western Jefferson Township. On the other hand, the Marmon Valley, which extends through the southern part of the township, is a small pass through the Bellefontaine and Bristlecone Ridges. The same forces that shaped the township's terrain also created Zane Shawnee Caverns, a cave system in the northeastern part of the township.\n\nAs a result of its hilly topography, Jefferson Township contains the source of the Mad River, and a ski resort — unusual for western Ohio — is located near Valley Hi in the southern part of the township.\n\nIt is one of twenty-four Jefferson Townships statewide.\n\nJefferson Township was formed in 1813 from Zane Township. It was one of the earliest parts of Logan County to be settled: its first settler was Isaac Zane, who arrived in 1800 and built the first house in what is now Zanesfield in 1811, and the Marmons who arrived in the township in 1805 were the first white families to live in the county. Because a significant percentage of the early settlers were Quakers, the township was once home to a large number of African Americans. Today, the township is the location of Goshen Friends Church, the oldest church in Logan County, and of the Martin Marmon House, one of the best examples of early nineteenth-century Quaker architecture in Ohio.\n\nThe township is governed by a three-member board of trustees, who are elected in November of odd-numbered years to a four-year term beginning on the following January 1. Two are elected in the year after the presidential election and one is elected in the year before it. There is also an elected township fiscal officer, who serves a four-year term beginning on April 1 of the year after the election, which is held in November of the year before the presidential election. Vacancies in the fiscal officership or on the board of trustees are filled by the remaining trustees.\n\nIn the elections of November 2007, Michael Kenoyer defeated two other candidates in the election for the position of township trustee.\n\nU.S. Route 33 is the most important highway in Jefferson Township. Other significant highways include State Routes 47, 292, 533, and 540.\n\n"}
{"id": "1927478", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1927478", "title": "Mathghamhain", "text": "Mathghamhain\n\nMathghamhain (also spelled \"Mathgamain\" or \"Mathúin\" and anglicised Mahon) was an Irishman of the early 11th century. He was the son of Cian mac Máelmuaid and his wife Sadhbh, who was daughter of the High King Brian Boru. Through Brian Boru, Mathghamhain was a member of the Eóganacht Raithlind, a dynastic line claiming descent from Eoghan Mor, a 2nd-century King of Munster. Mathghamhain (whose name means \"bear-calf\") was killed at the Battle of Clontarf in 1014.\n\nMathghamhain's descendants eventually became sovereigns over territory in west Cork, notably around the Iveragh Peninsula and the town of Bandon. Today, his descendants use the surname McMahon, Mahoney, O'Mahoney, Mahony, Maughon, Mahaney or O'Mahony.\n"}
{"id": "1927492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1927492", "title": "Perry Township, Logan County, Ohio", "text": "Perry Township, Logan County, Ohio\n\nPerry Township is one of the seventeen townships of Logan County, Ohio, United States. The 2000 census found 1,022 people in the township.\n\nLocated in the eastern part of the county, it borders the following townships:\n\nPart of the village of West Mansfield is located in northeastern Perry Township, and the unincorporated community of East Liberty lies in the township's south.\n\nPerry Township was organized in 1830, and named for Commodore Oliver Hazard Perry. It is one of twenty-five Perry Townships statewide.\n\nThe township is governed by a three-member board of trustees, who are elected in November of odd-numbered years to a four-year term beginning on the following January 1. Two are elected in the year after the presidential election and one is elected in the year before it. There is also an elected township fiscal officer, who serves a four-year term beginning on April 1 of the year after the election, which is held in November of the year before the presidential election. Vacancies in the fiscal officership or on the board of trustees are filled by the remaining trustees.\n\nIn the elections of November 2007, Gary Baker defeated Brian Tacey in the election for the position of township trustee, while Cindy Stalling was elected without opposition to the position of township fiscal officer.\n\nImportant highways in Perry Township include U.S. Route 33 and State Routes 292, 347, and 540.\n\n"}
{"id": "1927493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1927493", "title": "Speed Age", "text": "Speed Age\n\nSpeed Age is a former American automobile magazine, which was based in Hyattsville, Maryland. The magazine was in circulation between May 1947 and December 1959. No issues were printed from January through May, 1954. There were several \"special\" issues published. There were also at least two short lived attempts to resurrect Speed Age in later years.\n\nAccording to Dean Batchelor,\"The American Hot Rod\", \"Speed Age\" \"knew a lot more about Indianapolis and NASCAR racing than they did about road racing, sports cars, or hot rods, and the publication did its best work when it stuck to its area of expertise\".\n\n \n"}
{"id": "1927494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1927494", "title": "Lackfi family", "text": "Lackfi family\n\nThe Lackfi, Laczkfi or Laczkfy ( / \"Laczkovich\") was a noble family from Kingdom of Hungary and Croatia, which governed parts of Transylvania (as Count of the Székelys) and held the title of Voivode of Transylvania in the 14th century. The Lackfi family were one of the most prestigious families in 14th-century Kingdom of Hungary during the reign of the Capetian House of Anjou. The family also gave several Bans of Croatia (Slavonia and Dalmatia included) and Bulgaria, and held the titles of Palatine of Hungary and Prince of Zadar, Count of San Severino and Serra, as well as a Viceroy to Kingdom of Naples. After Sigismund's accession to the throne and the Bloody Sabor of Križevci (1397), the family lost all of its political influence.\n\nThe family started with Lack, Count of the Székelys of the Herman (Hermány) clan which are thought to have sprang from the Raabs family from Raabs an der Thaya in Lower Austria later Lords of Nuremberg. The theory says they arrived in 995 together with Giselle of Bavaria and settled in the southern area of the Pannonian Basin. His descendants took the name of Lackfi which means son of Lack (Laczk). After having lost most of their influence following the Bloody Sabor of Križevci the remaining branch of the family settled on their Croatian estates in Križevci County.\n\nEarlier it was thought that the family started with Ladislaus Kán as a branch of Kán kindred. The Lack de Szántó family was not related to the Lackfis.\n\nNotable members of the House of Lackfi include:\n\n"}
{"id": "1927499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1927499", "title": "Donelson, Tennessee", "text": "Donelson, Tennessee\n\nDonelson is a neighborhood of Nashville, Tennessee about 6 mi (10 km) east of downtown Nashville along U.S. Route 70. It is named in honor of John Donelson, co-founder of Nashville and father-in-law of Andrew Jackson, Nashvillian and seventh President of the United States. It is now incorporated as part of the Metropolitan Government of Nashville and Davidson County.\n\nIn the 1880s Donelson was a station on the Tennessee and Pacific Railroad just south of the former village of McWhirtersville on the Lebanon Pike. It began its modern development shortly after World War II, and its location next to Nashville's airport led to much of its later growth. It was also the site of an early example of what would later be called a shopping center or \"strip mall\", Donelson Plaza.\n\nDonelson's oldest neighborhood is Bluefields. The development of the Bluefields subdivision began in 1929 by the Bransford Realty Company of Nashville, Tennessee. Home construction began in the early 1930s, with fifty to sixty homes built by the Bransford Realty Company by the end of 1938. The final phase of building, Bluefield Square, was developed in the 1970s on the property once occupied by the Swiss Farm Dairy within Bluefields proper.\n\nDonelson is now an example of an early postwar suburb with a stock of mostly half-century old, red brick, detached ranch-style homes. However, there has been some tendency for infill in recent years, largely tied into the expansion of sewers. The area's desirability was increased somewhat by the impoundment of Percy Priest Lake on the Stones River in the late 1960s which increased summertime recreational opportunities.\n\nDonelson was the home of the Opryland USA theme park, which closed in 1997. This property is now the Opry Mills shopping mall and the Grand Ole Opry. It is usually considered as something of a unit along with the adjacent neighborhood of Hermitage just across the Stones River along U.S. 70; the two communities share a Chamber of Commerce.\n\nDonelson is home to hundreds of small and medium-sized local businesses. Hip Donelson, a tax exempt 501(c)3 created to promote and develop the local community, lists over 100 Donelson, Tennessee businesses that operate in the neighborhood. Donelson is also home to the national headquarters of HarperCollins Christian Publishers, a new branch of Nashville State University, and over 40 hotels and motels that cater to tourists and business travelers using BNA International Airport.\n\nIn recent years, Donelson has shown high demand as a desirable place to live, and is commonly discussed as one of the next Nashville neighborhoods set for explosive growth. A 2016 article on Realtor.com cited Donelson as the 15th most desirable zip code in the United States.\n\nAs with most communities which are not census-designated places, making a realistic estimate of the community's population is very problematic. Donelson is generally considered to be coextensive with the United States Postal Service's ZIP code 37214, which is the ZIP code for the Nashville Post Office's Donelson Station. According to the US Census Bureau 2016 estimates the population for the zip code 37214 was 30,230.\n\nThe community has a station on the Music City Star commuter rail line, which began operation in September 2006.\n\nDonelson (Music City Star station)\n\n"}
{"id": "1927501", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1927501", "title": "Duleepsinhji", "text": "Duleepsinhji\n\nDuleepsinhji usually referred to as Kumar Shri Duleepsinhji or K. S. Duleepsinhji (13 June 1905 – 5 December 1959) was a cricketer who played for England. He was educated at the Rajkumar College, Rajkot, India and Cheltenham College, Gloucestershire, England.\n\nDescended from the Jam Sahibs of Nawanagar State, Duleepsinhji was born on the Kathiawar peninsula in present-day Gujarat. His brothers included Himmatsinhji, the first Lieutenant-Governor of Himachal Pradesh, and Digvijaysinhji, who succeeded the brothers' uncle, Ranjitsinhji, as ruler of Nawanagar. Ranjitsinhji, after whom the Ranji Trophy is named, also played cricket for England.\nWhile he was still playing school cricket, the future President of the MCC, HS Altham, wrote of him in Wisden: \"In natural gifts of eye, wrist and footwork he is certainly blest far above the ordinary measure... there is no doubt about the judgment and certainty with which he takes toll of straight balls of anything but the most immaculate length. His late cutting is quite beautiful and there is a certain ease and maturity about all his batting methods that stamps him as of a different class from the ordinary school batsman.\" Duleepsinhji went on to achieve great success as a batsman for Cheltenham College, Cambridge University, Sussex and eventually England in a career cut short by recurrent illness. His Test average of 58.5 ranks him among the best batsmen to have played Test cricket. In 1930, playing for Sussex, he scored 333 runs in one day against Northamptonshire.\nFollowing his playing career, and based on his experience as High Commissioner of India in Australia and New Zealand, Duleepsinhji was made Chairman of the Public Service Commission in the State of Saurashtra after his return to India. As Maharaja of Navanagar (Jamnagar) he took lot of interest in the well being of his subjects and the State governing.\n\nDuleepsinhji also visited the first and the only public utility thermal power station in the State, at that time located at Shapur Sorath, near a village Vanthly (near Junagadh). As this power station was using crushed coal as fuel for boilers and chlorination for the cooling water system, which normally polluted the local atmosphere; he wanted to see personally the working conditions and the amenities provided for the villagers housing and the recreation facilities.\n\nDuleepsinhji died on 5 December 1959, following a heart attack, in Bombay. The Duleep Trophy is named in his honour.\n"}
{"id": "1927503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1927503", "title": "Spathiphyllum floribundum", "text": "Spathiphyllum floribundum\n\nSpathiphyllum floribundum, the snowflower, peace lily, is a flowering plant in the family Araceae, native to northwestern South America from Panama east to Venezuela and south to Peru.\nIt is a herbaceous perennial plant. The leaves are oval to lanceolate, 12–20 cm long and 5–9 cm broad. The flowers are produced in a spadix, surrounded by a 10–20 cm long, greenish- or yellowish-white spathe. \n"}
{"id": "1927515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1927515", "title": "Baseball clothing and equipment", "text": "Baseball clothing and equipment\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1927522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1927522", "title": "1992 Peruvian constitutional crisis", "text": "1992 Peruvian constitutional crisis\n\nThe 1992 Fujimori auto-coup, also known as the 1992 auto-coup, was a constitutional crisis that occurred in Peru after President Alberto Fujimori dissolved the Congress of Peru as well as the judiciary of Peru and assumed full legislative and judicial powers.\n\nThe systemic weakness of government institutions had worsened under the administration of Fujimori's predecessor, Alan García, which turned away from the private sector while attempting to control the banking system, leading to the collapse of the entire structure of public administration.\n\nDuring Fujimori's first term in office, the American Popular Revolutionary Alliance (APRA) and Democratic Front (FREDEMO) parties remained in control of both chambers of Congress (the Chamber of Deputies and Senate), thus hampering Fujimori's ability to get his sponsored legislation enacted.\n\nWhen Fujimori was president-elect prior to his inauguration into office, he traveled to Japan and the United States in order to meet with top-level officials and request aid for Peru. While in the U.S., Fujimori was told that Peru must adopt a \"relatively orthodox economic strategy\" and stabilize hyperinflation before being permitted re-entrance into the international financial community, meaning that these policies would have to be implemented prior to the granting of any international aid to Peru. The Congress, however, resisted Fujimori's efforts to adopt policies advocated by the International Monetary Fund and World Bank, especially austerity measures.\n\nIn response, Fujimori mounted an auto-coup (, sometimes \"Fuji-coup\" or \"fujigolpe\") on Sunday April 5, 1992.\n\nOn the night of Sunday April 5, 1992, Fujimori appeared on television and announced that he was \"temporarily dissolving\" the Congress of the Republic and \"reorganizing\" the Judicial Branch of the government. He then ordered the Peruvian Army to drive a tank to the steps of Congress to shut it down. When a group of senators attempted to hold session, tear gas was deployed against them.\n\nThat same night, the military was sent to detain prominent members of the political opposition. Fujimori is currently on trial for the kidnapping of journalist Gustavo Gorriti and businessman Samuel Dyer, both of whom were detained by the military on the night of the coup.\n\nOne of the most criticized moves that Fujimori took was the attempt to arrest former president Alan García, in order to have him face numerous trials. Also contributing to the coup was Fujimori's desire to remove García, who was serving as a Senator, as a political rival and potential future presidential candidate. However, García managed to escape arrest and sought political asylum in Colombia.\n\nFujimori issued Decree Law 25418, which dissolved the Congress, gave the Executive Branch all legislative powers, suspended much of the Constitution, and gave the president the power to enact various reforms, such as the \"application of drastic punishments\" towards terrorists. \nFujimori called for elections of a new congress that was later named the Democratic Constitutional Congress (\"Congreso Constituyente Democrático\"); Fujimori received a majority in this new congress, which later drafted the 1993 Constitution. Fujimori also set about curtailing the independence of the judiciary and constitutional rights with a declaration of a state of emergency and curfews, as well as enacting controversial \"severe emergency laws\" to deal with terrorism.\n\nThe Prime Minister, Alfonso de Los Heros, and the Minister of Agriculture resigned while the rest of ministers supported the \"de facto\" government. Máximo San Román, then the first vice president of the republic, did not support the coup. He was not in the country at the time of the coup, and he was not informed about this move.\n\nThe legislative branch responded by activating the constitutional clauses that allow the Congress to remove the president from office. Fujimori was removed and Máximo San Román was formally sworn into the presidency. Prominent politicians supported this move: former President Fernando Belaúnde Terry and most of the Acción Popular Party supported San Román, while former FREDEMO presidential candidate Mario Vargas Llosa called for a civil insurgency to overthrow Fujimori. However, neither the military nor the big majority of the people ever supported San Román, and he never became the \"de facto\" president.\n\nThere was little initial domestic resistance to the auto-coup. An opinion poll carried out shortly thereafter indicated that Fujimori's decision to dissolve Congress and restructure the judicial system had an 85% approval rating. The economic and political situation was so poor at the time that for many Peruvians things could get only better. At the time, Fujimori's bold and risky economic reforms (the \"Fujishock\") appeared to be working.\n\nFujimori himself claimed that the auto-coup was necessary to break with the deeply entrenched interests that were hindering him from rescuing Peru from the chaotic state in which former president Alan García had left it, but critics say that he could never have implemented his drastic liberal economic reform under a democratic government.\nAnother group of military officers led by General Jaime Salinas Sedó attempted to overthrow Fujimori on November 13.\n\nInternational reactions to the auto-coup were different: International financial organizations delayed planned or projected loans, and the United States government suspended all aid to Peru other than humanitarian assistance, as did Germany and Spain. Venezuela broke off diplomatic relations, and Argentina withdrew its ambassador. Chile joined Argentina in requesting that Peru be suspended from the Organization of American States. The coup appeared to threaten the economic recovery strategy of reinsertion, and complicated the process of clearing arrears with the International Monetary Fund.\n\nEven before the coup, relations with the United States had been strained because of Fujimori's reluctance to sign an accord that would increase U.S. and Peruvian military efforts in eradicating coca fields. Although Fujimori eventually signed the accord in May 1991, in order to get desperately needed aid, the disagreements did little to enhance bilateral relations. The Peruvians saw drugs as primarily a U.S. problem and the least of their concerns, given the economic crisis, Shining Path (\"Sendero Luminoso\", or S.L.) guerrillas, and an outbreak of cholera, which further isolated Peru because of a resulting ban on food imports.\n\nHowever, two weeks after the auto-coup, the Bush administration changed their position and officially recognized Fujimori as the legitimate leader of Peru. The Organization of American States and the U.S. agreed that Fujimori's coup may have been extreme, but they did not want to see Peru return to the deteriorating state that it had been in before. In fact, the coup came not long after the U.S. government and media had launched a media offensive against the Shining Path rural guerrilla movement. On March 12, 1992, Undersecretary of State for Latin American Affairs Bernard Aronson told the US Congress: \"The international community and respected human rights organizations must focus the spotlight of world attention on the threat which Sendero poses... Latin America has seen violence and terror, but none like Sendero's... \"and\" make no mistake, if Sendero were to take power, we would see... genocide.\" Given Washington's concerns, long-term repercussions of the auto-coup turned out to be modest.\n\nOn November 26, 2007, ten former government officials were sentenced by the Supreme Court of Peru for their role in the autogolpe. Fujimori's Minister of the Interior, Juan Briones Dávila, was sentenced to ten years imprisonment. Former fujimorista congressmen Jaime Yoshiyama, Carlos Boloña, Absalón Vásquez, Víctor Joy Way, Óscar de la Puente Raygada, Jaime Sobero, Alfredo Ross Antezana, Víctor Paredes Guerra, and Augusto Antoniolli Vásquez were all also sentenced for various crimes such as rebellion and kidnapping.\n"}
{"id": "1927529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1927529", "title": "Rey Misterio", "text": "Rey Misterio\n\nMiguel Ángel López Díaz (born January 8, 1958) is a Mexican retired professional wrestler and trainer, better known by his ring name, Rey Misterio (\"Mystery King\"). He is also referred to as Rey Misterio Sr. to distinguish him from his nephew.\n\nMisterio first began training to be a boxer, but after his body got bigger, he took a lot of bumps and lost some of his punching ability. When his trainers told him that he could still punch hard, they told Mysterio about wrestling. His brother soon began to take him to train for wrestling and lucha libre. On the sixth of January 1976, Mysterio finally made his debut as a wrestler on a show called \"Day of the Kings\", or Día de los Reyes.\n\nMisterio appeared at World Championship Wrestling's Starrcade 1990 pay-per-view event where he teamed with Konnan and competed in the \"Pat O'Connor Memorial International Cup\" representing Mexico. In the first round the team defeated Chris Adams and Norman Smiley representing the United Kingdom, but lost to The Steiner Brothers in the second round.\n\nIn 1987, Misterio opened a gym with Negro Casas and Super Astro. His first class included future international superstars such as Konnan, Psicosis, Halloween, Damian 666 and his nephew Rey Mysterio Jr.. Misterio is also known to have trained wrestlers such as Cassandro, Eiji Ezaki, Extassis, Extreme Tiger, Fobia, Misterioso, Pequeño Damián 666, Ruby Gardenia, The Warlord and Venum Black,\n\nMisterio's son is also a wrestler, \nwho wrestles under the name El Hijo de Rey Misterio. Misterio is also the uncle of wrestlers Rey Mysterio and Metalika, and brother-in-law to Super Astro. He is featured in the horror film El Mascarado Massacre (or Wrestlemaniac).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1927530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1927530", "title": "Jack Clark (baseball)", "text": "Jack Clark (baseball)\n\nJack Anthony Clark (born November 10, 1955), also known as \"Jack the Ripper\" is a former Major League Baseball player. From 1975 through 1992, Clark played for the San Francisco Giants (1975–84), St. Louis Cardinals (1985–87), New York Yankees (1988), San Diego Padres (1989–90) and Boston Red Sox (1991–92).\n\nDuring his prime, Clark was one of the most feared right-handed hitters in the National League, winning the Silver Slugger Award in and . A four-time All-Star In an 18-season career, Clark was a .267 hitter with 340 home runs and 1180 RBI in 1994 games. He also collected 1118 runs, 332 doubles, 77 stolen bases, 1262 bases on balls and 1826 hits in 6847 at-bats. He batted and threw right-handed.\n\nClark began his minor league baseball career in 1973 with the Great Falls Giants where he played the outfield and third base and had a 0-2 record in 5 games as a pitcher. In 1974, he led the league with 117 RBIs with Fresno. The following year, he led the league with 23 home runs with Lafayette.\nClark started his major league career with the San Francisco Giants in as a right fielder and the youngest player in 1975 (19). His 26-game hitting streak in 1978 is the longest by a Giants player after 1900. He won the first Willie Mac Award in 1980 for his spirit and leadership. Clark frequently complained about the cold and windy condition at Candlestick Park, the Giants' home park. He had a rift with manager Frank Robinson, and some members of the Giants front office thought Clark took too long to recover from injuries.\n\nOn February 1, , Clark was traded to the St. Louis Cardinals for shortstop José Uribe, pitcher Dave LaPoint, and first basemen-outfielders David Green and Gary Rajsich. He switched to first base to reduce risk of injury. His three-run home run against the Los Angeles Dodgers in game 6 of the 1985 NLCS was the pennant-clinching hit for the Cardinals.\n\nClark's fielding, never his specialty, played a pivotal role in the 1985 World Series. Umpire Don Denkinger's notorious controversial call in Game 6 came from Clark's throw to Todd Worrell at first. Clark would later misplay a foul popup that, while not ruled an error, should have been caught. Darrell Porter later admitted that he called off Clark but hesitated at the last minute when he thought Clark had called for the catch, which Clark had not. This opened the door for the Kansas City Royals to score two runs in the bottom of the 9th to win Game 6, and go on to capture the World Series in Game 7 the following night.\nIn 1987, despite a rift with St. Louis All-Star shortstop Ozzie Smith, Clark had his best season. He hit .286 with 35 home runs, 106 RBI, and led the league in on-base percentage (.459) and slugging percentage (.597). He accomplished all this despite missing 31 games due to nagging injuries and finished third in the MVP vote. Clark again led the Cardinals to the World Series that year, although an ankle injury limited him to one at-bat in the postseason.\n\nClark signed a two-year contract with the New York Yankees prior to the 1988 season. He was primarily a designated hitter (DH), because of the presence of Don Mattingly at first base. Clark enjoyed playing for manager Billy Martin, but he didn't get along with Martin's successor, Lou Piniella. At the end of the season, he requested a trade.\n\nClark was traded to the San Diego Padres with Pat Clements for Lance McCullers, Jimmy Jones, and Stan Jefferson. Regarding his time in the American League, he said, \"I hate that damn league. Every game lasts 3 1/2 to 4 hours. No wonder the fans are bored over there.\" He played for the Padres for two seasons. In 1990, he feuded with All-Star teammate Tony Gwynn, who was widely respected by his peers and known as one of the most dedicated players in baseball. Clark called him selfish and stated that Gwynn should be swinging with runners in scoring position instead of bunting and protecting his batting average. \"No one bothers Tony Gwynn because he wins batting titles, but the Padres finish fourth or fifth every year\", he said (in the two seasons he played with the team, they finished 2nd and 5th, respectively). Joe Carter, who played for the Padres in 1990, said, \"It just involved one great guy, and that's Tony Gwynn, and anything they want to say about Tony Gwynn is going to be news. It got all blown out of proportion.\" Gwynn countered, \"I've been doing the same things my whole career, playing the same way. Now, why is it an issue? Because Jack Clark says it is.\"\n\nIn early 1991, after leaving the Padres, Clark called Padres manager Greg Riddoch \"a bad, bad man, and he's sneaky. He's a snake. Well, not just a snake, but a s-s-s-n-n-n-a-ke.\" Clark said of the San Diego fans: \"Everything that they should cheer for they'd boo for, and everything they should boo for they'd cheer for ... Tony, he's perfect for them. He just plays the whole thing up, and the town is so stupid that they can't see.\" Gwynn responded with his own criticism of Clark: \"Let's talk about him walking 104 times, being a No. 4 hitter. Let's talk about his not flying on team flights. Let's talk about him getting booted out of games on a called strike three.\"\n\nClark returned to the American League in 1991, signing with the Boston Red Sox for three years over the Padres' offer of only one. Clark served primarily as Boston's DH, hitting 28 home runs his first year with the team.\n\nAfter hitting only five home runs in a truncated 1992 season, Clark was waived by Boston in February 1993 and was signed by the Montreal Expos during 1993 spring training. He was released later that year and never made an official at bat with the Expos. He retired shortly after.\n\nThe Frontier League introduced a new independent minor league team in the St. Louis area in 1999. Clark was named manager of the River City Rascals in their inaugural season.\n\nClark served as the Los Angeles Dodgers' hitting coach for the 2001–03 seasons.\n\nIn October 2008, Clark was named manager of the Springfield Sliders (Springfield Illinois) of the Central Illinois Collegiate League (renamed Prospect League in 2009). It was in Springfield that he caught criticism from an article in \"The State Journal-Register\" after missing ten of the Sliders' 26 home games with no telling how many road games he attended.\n\nClark was driven into bankruptcy in 1992 by his appetite for luxury cars. According to his bankruptcy filing, he owned 18 luxury automobiles, including a 700,000 Ferrari and a Rolls-Royce. Clark was trying to pay 17 car payments simultaneously, and whenever he got bored with a car he would get rid of it and just buy another one. He ended up losing his 2.4 million home and his drag-racing business because of his extravagant spending habits. Despite one of the most publicized bankruptcies in baseball, Clark reportedly got back on his feet in the late 1990s.\n\nClark was hired as a sports talk host on St. Louis radio station WGNU in August 2013, co-hosting \"The King and the Ripper\" with longtime St. Louis radio personality Kevin \"the King\" Slaten. At least twice during the show's first week, Clark accused Los Angeles Angels slugger Albert Pujols of using performance-enhancing drugs (PEDs) while Pujols was with the Cardinals. Clark had said that he talked to Pujols' former personal trainer and said that \"I know for a fact he was\" using PEDs. Pujols responded by threatening Clark and WGNU with a defamation lawsuit, and vehemently denied that he had ever used PEDs. The trainer added that he hadn't even talked to Clark in over ten years. InsideSTL Enterprises, the company that owns WGNU's weekday airtime through a time brokerage agreement, cut ties with Clark and Slaten after only seven shows. On October 4, 2013, Pujols filed a lawsuit against Clark. In response on October 14, Clark challenged Pujols to both take polygraph tests to resolve who is telling the truth. However, on February 10, 2014, Clark apologized and retracted his accusations against Pujols, saying he had \"no knowledge whatsoever\" that Pujols ever used PEDs. \"During a heated discussion on air, I misspoke\", Clark said. In return, Pujols dropped the suit.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1927535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1927535", "title": "Bokescreek Township, Logan County, Ohio", "text": "Bokescreek Township, Logan County, Ohio\n\nBokescreek Township or Bokes Creek Township is one of the seventeen townships of Logan County, Ohio, United States. The 2000 census found 1,308 people in the township.\n\nLocated in the northeastern corner of the county, it borders the following townships:\n\nParts of the villages of West Mansfield and Ridgeway are located in southeastern and northern Bokescreek Township respectively.\n\nBokescreek Township was formed in 1837 from Perry Township, and named after Bokes Creek. It is the only Bokescreek Township statewide.\n\nThe township is governed by a three-member board of trustees, who are elected in November of odd-numbered years to a four-year term beginning on the following January 1. Two are elected in the year after the presidential election and one is elected in the year before it. There is also an elected township fiscal officer, who serves a four-year term beginning on April 1 of the year after the election, which is held in November of the year before the presidential election. Vacancies in the fiscal officership or on the board of trustees are filled by the remaining trustees. In the elections of November 2007, Darrell Ramsey and Joseph Ramsey were elected without opposition to the positions of township trustee and township fiscal officer respectively.\n\nState Routes 47 and 292 pass through Bokescreek Township.\n\n"}
{"id": "1927543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1927543", "title": "PC LOAD LETTER", "text": "PC LOAD LETTER\n\nPC LOAD LETTER is a printer error message that has entered popular culture as a technology meme referring to a confusing or inappropriate error message. The error message's vagueness was mocked in the 1999 comedy film \"Office Space\".\n\nThe message is encountered when printing on older HP LaserJet printers such as the LaserJet II, III, and 4 series. It means that the printer is trying to print a document that needs \"Letter size\" (8½ × 11 in.) paper when no Letter size paper is available.\n\n\"PC\" is an abbreviation for \"paper cassette\", the tray which holds blank paper for the printer to use. These two-character codes are a legacy feature carried over from the first LaserJet printers, which could only use a two-character display for all printer status and error messages. \"LOAD\" is an instruction to refill the paper tray. \"LETTER\" is the standard paper size used in the United States and Canada. Thus, the error is instructing the user to refill the paper tray with letter-sized paper. Another message that might be seen is \"MP LOAD LEGAL\" meaning the \"MP\" (multi-purpose) tray needs to be filled with legal size (8½ × 14 in.) paper.\n\nUsers usually are much more familiar with \"PC\" meaning Personal computer, and \"LETTER\" meaning \"a short document\". Outside the United States and Canada, most paper is A4 size, yet many programs (written in the United States) use \"Letter\" as the default format, so the confusing message is often encountered by users who may not know that LETTER is a paper size at all, and may not have any such paper.\n\nThe error can be fixed (other than by filling the paper tray) by emptying the print queue and printer buffer or press \"Shift+Continue\" and in extreme cases, restart printer and repeat. The LaserJet 5 introduced an easy-to-find \"GO\" button to override the warning message.\n\nLater LaserJet printers, with a number label on their paper trays, display a new message, \"TRAY [x] LOAD PLAIN [paper size]\" where [x] is the tray number. The word \"PLAIN\" seems to have been added in an attempt to make it less confusing.\n\n"}
{"id": "1927547", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1927547", "title": "Belarus at the Olympics", "text": "Belarus at the Olympics\n\nAthletes from Belarus began their Olympic participation at the 1952 Summer Games in Helsinki, Finland as part of the Soviet Union (IOC code: URS). After the Soviet Union disbanded in 1991, Belarus, along with four of the other fourteen former Soviet republics, competed in the 1992 Winter Olympics (held in Albertville, France) as the Unified Team. Later in 1992, eleven republics joined Belarus to compete as the Unified Team at the Summer Games in Barcelona, Spain. Two years later, Belarus competed for the first time as an independent nation in the 1994 Winter Olympics, held in Lillehammer, Norway. Since 1994, Belarus has won medals at each Winter and Summer Olympics it has participated in.\n\nAthletes from the Soviet Union began participating in the Olympic Games in 1952, winning 194 total medals in the Winter Games and 1010 at the Summer Games for a total of 1204 medals. Of those medals, 473 were gold, 376 were silver and 355 were bronze. The Belarusian collection of medals began with Mikhail Krivonosov winning silver in the hammer throw at the 1956 Summer Olympics in Melbourne, Australia. The Soviet Republic's first gold medal was won by Leonid Geishtor and Sergei Makarenko in the 1000 metre pairs canoe event during the 1960 Summer Games in Rome, Italy. The Soviet Union first competed in the Winter Olympics in 1956, located in Cortina. In 1988, the Soviet Union competed for the last time as a unified country.\n\nGymnast Vitaly Shcherbo won six gold medals at the 1992 Summer Olympics in Barcelona.\n\nIn Belarus's first independent appearance at the Summer Olympics, the delegation took home fifteen medals: one gold, six silver and eight bronze. The first Belarusian gold medal was won by Ekaterina Karsten in the women's single sculls rowing event. The silver medals were won in athletics, shooting, and wrestling (both freestyle and Greco-Roman). The bronze medals were won in artistic gymnastics, athletics, rowing and Greco-Roman wrestling. The country sent 159 athletes to compete in 21 disciplines.\n\nThe Belarusian government, using public funds and sponsorships, spent five million USD to prepare the athletes for the 2000 Olympics. Minister of Sports and Tourism Yevgeny Vorsin predicted that Belarus would win four gold medals during the Games. Belarus finished with three gold, three silver and 11 bronze medals. Karsten successfully defended her championship in the single sculls, with the other two gold medals won by Yanina Karolchik and Ellina Zvereva in the shot put and discus throw events, respectively. The Belarusian women took silver in both individual and team rhythmic gymnastics, with a third silver medal coming in the men's 50 metre pistol event. Bronze medals were won in hammer throwing, shooting (3), Greco-Roman wrestling, pentathlon, weight lifting (2), judo, heptathlon and discus throwing. One athlete from Belarus, Vadim Devyatovsky, was banned from Olympic competition due to testing positive for the substance nandrolone.\n\nBelarus used leftover funds from the Sydney Games to prepare athletes to compete in the 2004 Olympics. Belarus sent to Athens 153 athletes competing in 21 disciplines. Those athletes won 15 medals: two golds, six silvers, and nine bronzes. The gold medals were won in the 100 meter dash and in judo. The silver medals were won in weightlifting (2), boxing (2), rowing and the hammer throw. The bronzes were won in shooting, the discus throw, weightlifting, cycling, rowing (2), wrestling (Greco-Roman) and canoe/kayak (2). Ivan Tsikhan originally won the bronze in the hammer throw, but his medal was upgraded to silver after Adrian Annus of Hungary was stripped of his gold medal due to doping. Yulia Nestsiarenka, who was not expected to do well in the 100 meter dash, took home the gold in the event. She was clocked at 10.93 seconds, beating the second place American by 0.03 seconds. Wrestler Alexander Medved was tasked to carry the national flag during the opening ceremony.\n\nOne hundred and eighty-one athletes from Belarus competed in 28 events at the Beijing Olympics. Before the Olympics started, the National Olympic Committee of Belarus announced that medal winners would be awarded cash prizes, valued in United States dollars, from the Committee and their sponsors. Another sponsor, Belatmit, offered gold medal winners free sausage for life. The women's basketball team would be given free sausage regardless of what medal they won. The team captain was Ivan Tsikhan and fencer Alexander Romankov carried the national flag during the opening ceremonies. Overall, Belarus took home 19 medals, with four medals being gold, placing 16th in the medal standings, 13th in the total medal count. At a ceremony bestowing state decorations on the Olympic champions President Lukashenko said his country had performed better in Beijing than they did in Athens, but he still called the Games a \"missed opportunity\", winning fewer gold medals than he personally had expected. However, on September 21, the IOC has asked Vadim Devyatovskiy and Ivan Tsikhan to provide the body information on why they tested positive for abnormal traces of testosterone after the completion of the hammerthrow final on August 17. If found guilty, the pair will be stripped of their respective medals and Devyatovskiy will face a lifetime ban for a second doping offense. The IOC found them guilty on December 11 and officially stripped them of their medals.\n10 June 2010 – The Court of Arbitration for Sport (CAS) has upheld the appeals filed by the two Belarusian hammer throwers, Vadim Devyatovskiy and Ivan Tsikhan, against the decision of the Disciplinary Commission of the International Olympic Committee (IOC) of 11 December 2008. Consequently, the silver and bronze medals won at the 2008 Olympic Games in Beijing are to be returned to Vadim Deviyatovskiy and Ivan Tsikhan respectively.\nIn 2012 IAAF retested doping samples from the 2005 World Athletics Championships and shotputter Andrei Mikhnevich was found positive for 3 anabolic steroids: Clenbuterol, Methandienone and Oxandrolone. In August 2014 IOC disqualified his results from the 2008 Summer Olympics and allocated the bronze medal.\n\nBelarus won two gold medals at the 2012 games in London, the first being for Sergei Martynov in the men's 50m rifle prone shooting. Mixed doubles tennis players Max Mirnyi and Victoria Azarenka won the other gold, with Azarenka also winning a bronze in the women's singles.\n\nThis was the first Olympic Games in which an independent Belarus participated. Before competing as an independent state, Belarusian athletes won four medals as part of the USSR and CIS squads from Olympic Games spanning 1964 to 1992. Belarus sent 33 athletes to compete in seven disciplines. Silver medals were won by Igor Zhelezovski in the 1000 m speed skating and Svetlana Paramygina in the biathlon. Out of the 67 nations that competed, Belarus ranked 15th in the medal totals. According to the NOC RB, competing in the Lillehammer Olympics is a historic event for Belarus and \"opened a new page in the history of Belarusian sport.\"\n\nBelarus sent a delegation of 59 athletes to compete in nine disciplines. Belarus medaled twice, both times with bronze. The medals were earned by Dmitry Dashchinsky in aerials and Alexei Aidarov in the biathlon. Belarus qualified for the second round of the hockey tournament, but lost its group matches and was eliminated by Russia in the quarterfinals, finishing seventh overall. In a speech by President Alexander Lukashenko in 2002, he reflected on the achievements of athletes in the Nagano Games. While watching the events, he stated that the Belarusian athletes competed with dignity and brought glory to Belarus.\n\nBelarus competed in nine disciplines, just like at the 1998 Winter Olympics. Belarus's single medal was a bronze won by Aleksei Grishin. The men's ice hockey team drew international attention for its upset of top-seeded Sweden and subsequent 4th-place finish. However, hockey team member Vasily Pankov, along with Belarusian team doctor Evgeni Lositski, were removed from the Olympic Games due to positive doping results. Lositski was barred from coming to the 2004 and 2006 Olympic Games for giving Pankov medication that included nandrolone. Another Belarusian athlete was given a \"strong warning\" by the IOC for missing a doping test and admonished the NOC RB for helping her miss the test.\n\nSending 33 athletes, Belarus competed in eight disciplines. Dmitry Dashchinsky took home the only medal, a silver in the aerials. Dashchinsky had earned a bronze medal at the 1998 Nagano Games. The result was upsetting to Alexander Lukashenko, President of Belarus and head of the National Olympic Committee. He told members of the NOC RB that the coaches were to blame for the poor showing and that Belarus needed victories so they could feel pride as a nation. He also told the assembled members that if there are any more poor showings, he will fire the members.\n\nBelarus won three medals. Alexei Grishin took the nation's first-ever gold in freestyle skiing – men's aerials. Sergey Novikov took silver in the men's 20-kilometers individual biathlon, while Darya Domracheva took bronze in the women's 15-kilometer individual biathlon. The men's hockey team was eliminated in the first round of playoffs.\n\nBelarus ranked 8th, its highest at any Olympic Games, after winning five golds and a bronze. Biathlete Darya Domracheva won three golds, in the women's pursuit, individual and mass start events. Nadzeya Skardzina won the bronze in the individual. In freestyle skiing, Alla Tsuper and Anton Kushnir won golds in the respective women's and men's aerial events.\n\nIn 1991, an order was issued to create the National Olympic Committee of the Republic of Belarus (), and it was not until 1993 before the NOC RB (НОК РБ) became a full member of the International Olympic Committee. Also in 1993, Vladimir Ryzhenkov, who was at the time the Belarus Minister for Sport and Tourism, was elected to the post of President of the NOC RB. In May 1997, a year after the death of Ryzhenkov, President of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko was elected to the post, which he still holds today. Lukashenko is the first known example of a head of state to also lead a National Olympic Committee at the same time. Funding for the NOC RB comes from marketing of goods with the Olympic logo, donations from the private sector, sponsorships and from the national government. As head of state, President Lukashenko issued decrees awarding prizes to those who bring home medals, use state funds to prepare for athletes and pay the coaches of the athletes. In 2004, President Lukashenko issued a decree awarding those who win medals in the 2004 and 2006 Olympic Games the following tax-free monetary awards (in United States dollars): $60,000 for gold, $30,000 for silver and $20,000 for bronze. For the 2008 and 2010 games, the following tax-free prizes will be awarded to medal winners and their coaches (in United States dollars): $100,000 for gold, $50,000 for silver and $30,000 for bronze.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1927548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1927548", "title": "Two-Lane Blacktop", "text": "Two-Lane Blacktop\n\nTwo-Lane Blacktop is a 1971 road movie directed by Monte Hellman, written by Rudy Wurlitzer and starring songwriter James Taylor, the Beach Boys drummer Dennis Wilson, Warren Oates, and Laurie Bird. \n\n\"Esquire\" magazine published the entire screenplay in its April 1971 issue, and referred to it on the cover as \"Our nomination for movie of the year,\" though it failed to include any explanation for this decision or any critical commentary, and also failed to review the film when it was released that fall. The film opened and disappeared so quickly that at the end of 1971, \"Esquire\" included its own cover prediction as part of its annual \"Dubious Achievements of the Year Awards\". \n\nThe Library of Congress selected the film for preservation in the United States National Film Registry in 2012 as being \"culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant.\" \n\nTwo street racers, the Driver (Taylor) and the Mechanic (Wilson) live on the road in their highly modified, primer-gray, 1955 Chevrolet 150 two-door sedan drag car and drift from town to town making their income by challenging local residents to impromptu drag races. (\"Blacktop\" means an asphalt road.) As they drive east on Route 66 from Needles, California, they pick up the Girl (Bird), a female hitchhiker, in Flagstaff, Arizona, when she gets into their car at a diner. Although the Driver develops a crush on the Girl, she sleeps with the Mechanic when the Driver goes out drinking one night. In New Mexico they begin to encounter another car driver, GTO (Oates), on the highways. An atmosphere of hostility develops between the two parties. Although GTO is not an overt street racer and seems to know little about cars, a cross-country race to Washington, D.C. is suggested. The Driver proposes that the prize should be \"pinks\" (pink slips), or legal ownership of the loser's car. Along the way, GTO picks up various hitchhikers, including an importuning homosexual hitchhiker (Harry Dean Stanton). When GTO's inexperience becomes apparent, he, the Driver and the Mechanic form an uneasy alliance; the Driver even drives with him for a while when GTO gets fatigued.\n\nNeeding money, the Driver, the Mechanic and GTO compete at a race track in Memphis. While the Driver finishes his race, the Girl hops into GTO's car and they leave. The Driver pursues them to a diner located on US-129 (a location today known as the Tail of the Dragon) where the Girl has just rejected GTO's idea to visit Chicago. The Driver proposes going to Columbus, Ohio, to get parts, but the Girl rejects him too. Instead, she leaves with a stranger on a motorcycle, abandoning her belongings in the parking lot. Later, GTO picks up two soldiers and tells them that he won his car by beating two men driving a custom-built 1955 Chevrolet 150 in a cross-country race. At an airstrip in East Tennessee, the Driver races against a Chevrolet El Camino. The film ends abruptly.\n\n\n\"Two-Lane Blacktop\" originated with producer Michael Laughlin who had a two-picture deal with CBS Cinema Center Films. He convinced the production company to pay Will Corry $100,000 for his original story, about two men, one black and one white, who drive across the country followed by a young girl, which was inspired by his own cross-country journey in 1968. Returning from Italy after a film project had fallen through, Hellman was introduced to Laughlin who presented Hellman with two projects, one of which was \"Two-Lane Blacktop\". He asked Hellman to direct, who found Corry's story \"interesting, but not fully realized\". Hellman agreed to make the film only if another screenwriter was hired to rewrite the script and Laughlin agreed. A friend of Hellman's recommended underground writer Rudolph Wurlitzer. Hellman read his novel \"Nog\" and was impressed enough to hire Wurlitzer, who began reading Corry's story, but gave up after five pages. Hellman and Wurlitzer agreed to keep the basic idea of the cross-country race as well as the characters of the Driver, the Mechanic and the Girl. Wurlitzer invented the GTO character and the rest of the supporting cast. To prepare for writing the script, he stayed in a Los Angeles motel and read car magazines, as well as hanging out with several obsessive mechanics and \"stoner car freaks\" in the San Fernando Valley. Wurlitzer said that he did not know much about cars, but did \"know something about being lost on the road\". He wrote a new script in four weeks.\n\nIn February 1970, Hellman began location scouting and was a few weeks from principal photography when Cinema Center suddenly canceled the project. He shopped the script around to several Hollywood studios that liked it, but wanted a say in the casting. However, Ned Tanen, a young executive at Universal Pictures gave Hellman $850,000 to make the film and gave him control of the final cut. Hellman saw a picture of James Taylor on a billboard on the Sunset Strip and asked the musician to come and do a screen test. Four days before beginning principal photography the role of the Mechanic was still not cast. Hellman was desperate and tested people he met in garages. A friend of casting director Fred Roos suggested musician Dennis Wilson. Wilson was the last actor cast and Hellman chose him because he felt that the musician \"had lived that role, that he really grew up with cars\".\n\nPrincipal photography began on August 13, 1970 in Los Angeles and lasted for eight weeks with a crew of 30, three matching Chevrolets and two matching G.T.O.s traveling through the southwest towards Memphis, Tennessee. Hellman insisted on going across country, like the characters in the film, because he felt it was the only way to convince the audience that the characters raced across the United States. He said, \"I knew it would affect the actors — and it did, obviously. It affected everybody\". Hellman took an unconventional approach of not letting his three lead, inexperienced actors read the script. Instead, he gave them pages of dialogue on the day of shooting. The actors felt uncomfortable with this approach. In particular, James Taylor, used to having control when it came to his music, was upset at being unable to read the script in advance. Hellman eventually gave him permission to do so, but Taylor never did read it.\n\nHellman shot almost the entire script as written. The first cut of the film was three-and-a-half hours long, in which Hellman was the editor. \"I can't look over someone's shoulder. I need my hand on the brake\". He had control of the final cut, but was contractually obliged to deliver a film no longer than two hours. The final version ran 105 minutes. In their April 1971 cover story, \"Esquire\" magazine proclaimed \"Two-Lane Blacktop\", \"film of the year\". Hellman initially thought that the \"Esquire\" article would be good publicity for the film, but in hindsight was not, because \"I think it raised people's expectations. They couldn't accept the movie for what it was\". There was a lot of advance buzz about the film, but Lew Wasserman, head of the studio saw the film and hated it. He refused to promote it and when it opened in New York City on the Fourth of July weekend, there were no newspaper ads promoting it.\n\nUnlike other existential road movies of the time (such as \"Easy Rider\" and \"Vanishing Point\"), \"Two-Lane Blacktop\" does not rely heavily on music, nor was a soundtrack album released. The music featured in the film covers many genres, including rock, folk, blues, country, bluegrass, and R&B. James Taylor and Dennis Wilson did not contribute any music.\n\nHowever, there are some notable tracks featured in the film, including \"Moonlight Drive\" by The Doors, \"Maybellene\" performed by John Hammond, the traditional folk tune \"Stealin'\" performed by Arlo Guthrie, and \"Me and Bobby McGee\" performed by the song's author Kris Kristofferson. A song titled \"Truckload Of Art\" written and performed by Terry Allen can be briefly heard coming out of the GTO.\n\nIn 2003 Plain Records issued a tribute album made in honor of this cult classic called \"You Can Never Go Fast Enough\" featuring exclusive tracks by Wilco, Sonic Youth, Will Oldham/Alan Licht, Calexico & Giant Sand, Suntanama, Steffen Basho-Junghans, Charalambides, Mark Eitzel/Marc Capelle, Roy Montgomery and Alvarius B with rare tracks by Cat Power, Roscoe Holcomb, Leadbelly & Sandy Bull.\n\nRoger Ebert gave the film three out of four stars and wrote, \"What I liked about \"Two-Lane Blacktop\" was the sense of life that occasionally sneaked through, particularly in the character of G.T.O. (Warren Oates). He is the only character who is fully occupied with being himself (rather than the instrument of a metaphor), and so we get the sense we've met somebody\". In his review for \"The New York Times\", Vincent Canby wrote, \"\"Two-Lane Blacktop\" is a far from perfect film (those metaphors keep blocking the road), but it has been directed, acted, photographed and scored (underscored, happily) with the restraint and control of an aware, mature filmmaker\". \"Time\" magazine's Jay Cocks wrote, \"The film is immaculately crafted, funny and quite beautiful, resonant with a lingering mood of loss and loneliness ... Not a single frame in the film is wasted. Even the small touches — the languid tension while refueling at a back-country gas station or the piercing sound of an ignition buzzer — have their own intricate worth\". In his review for the \"Village Voice\", J. Hoberman wrote, \"\"Two-Lane Blacktop\" is a movie of achingly eloquent landscapes and absurdly inert characters\". In his review for the \"Chicago Reader\", Jonathan Rosenbaum wrote, \"The movie starts off as a narrative, but gradually grows into something much more abstract — it's unsettling, but also beautiful\".\n\nThe film has since become a cult film. It currently holds a 92% on Rotten Tomatoes and a 7.3 out of 10 score (based on 7,334 votes, April 4, 2015) the Internet Movie Database.\n\n\"Two-Lane Blacktop\" was unavailable on video for years because Universal Studios only released a few films from their catalog each year and it was not a priority. In 1994, Seattle's Scarecrow Video invited Hellman to show the film at their store. They proceeded to collect 2,000 signatures, including Werner Herzog's, for a petition to get the film released on video. Both \"People\" magazine and \"Film Comment\" ran articles about the store's effort and the film.\n\nFor years, Universal had been looking for a partner to give \"Two-Lane Blacktop\" a proper release befitting its cult film status. However, efforts to release it had always been hampered by issues with music rights, in particular the use of \"Moonlight Drive\" by The Doors. Director William Lustig, also a \"technical advisor\" for Anchor Bay, got Hellman to approach the surviving band members to get their approval. In 1999, Michigan-based Anchor Bay Entertainment licensed the film from Universal and released it on VHS and DVD, with an audio commentary by Hellman and associate producer Gary Kurtz and a documentary on Hellman directed by George Hickenlooper. The limited edition DVD was packed in a metal tin and extras included a 48-page booklet featuring behind-the-scenes photographs and liner notes about director Monte Hellman, a 5\" X 7\" theatrical poster replica, and a die-struck miniature car key chain. Anchor Bay released a regular edition without the poster and key chain.\n\nAt a July 2007 screening of the film, Hellman revealed that the Criterion Collection was releasing a two-disc special edition DVD that featured a new documentary made by Hellman that included an interview with Kristofferson about how \"Me and Bobby McGee\" has become so closely associated with the film. This DVD set was released on December 11, 2007. \"Two-Lane Blacktop\" is available on Blu-ray disc from UK distributor Masters of Cinema, having been released on 23 January 2012; this release was marked as a Region B disc, which would only play in Blu-ray disc players in Europe, Africa and Australia. The Criterion Collection released a U.S. Region A Blu-ray edition in January 2013.\n\n\"Two-Lane Blacktop\" is notable as a time capsule film of U.S. Route 66 during the pre-interstate highway era, and for its stark footage and minimal dialogue.\n\nBrock Yates is the organizer of the Cannonball Run, and he cites \"Two-Lane Blacktop\" an inspiration for the race and commented on it in his \"Car and Driver\" column announcing the first Cannonball.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1927552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1927552", "title": "NStigate Games", "text": "NStigate Games\n\nnStigate Games (formerly Nihilistic Software) was an American video game developer based in Novato, California.\n\nNihilistic was founded in March 1998 by Ray Gresko, Robert Huebner, and Steve Tietze. Gresko and Huebner had formerly worked at LucasArts, and Tietze had worked at Rogue Entertainment. Many of Nihilistic's employees were drawn from LucasArts, working on games such as \"\".\n\nThe first game produced by Nihilistic was \"\", set in the a role-playing world created by White Wolf. Released in 2000, \"Vampire: The Masquerade - Redemption\" was published by Activision for Microsoft Windows and Apple Macintosh computers.\n\nFor their next project, Nihilistic began to develop \"\", supervised by \"StarCraft\" creator Blizzard Entertainment. In mid-2004, Nihilistic ceased working on\" StarCraft: Ghost\", although the circumstances behind this are not entirely clear. The project was taken up by Swingin' Ape Studios, which was later bought by Blizzard. Finally in March 2006, Blizzard Entertainment announced that \"StarCraft: Ghost\" was placed on indefinite hold.\n\nMeanwhile, in 2005, Nihilistic completed development on \"\", a fighting game based on Marvel Comics' various superheroes. \"Marvel Nemesis: Rise of the Imperfects\" was published by Electronic Arts, for the PlayStation 2, Xbox and Nintendo GameCube.\n\nNihilistic released their first 'next-gen' title, \"Conan\" for both the PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 game consoles. According to a preview article in the March 2007 issue of \"Game Informer\", \"Conan\" is an action/adventure game based on Robert E. Howard's famous sword and sorcery hero, Conan the Barbarian. This title was released by the publisher THQ on October 23, 2007.\n\nIn the fall of 2009, Konami published Nihilistic Software's first downloadable game, \"Zombie Apocalypse\" on Xbox Live for the Xbox 360 and on the PlayStation Network for the PlayStation 3. \"Zombie Apocalypse\" is multiplayer, arcade-style dual stick shooter with zombies as the opponent.\n\nThey developed \"PlayStation Move Heroes\" for the PlayStation 3 (for the PlayStation Move) which was released in March 2011.\n\nOn May 29, 2012, Nihilistic released \"\" for the PlayStation Vita.\n\nOn October 17, 2012, Nihilistic reorganized their business to focus on mobile gaming, changing their name to nStigate.\n\nOn November 13, 2012, nStigate released \"\" for the Vita. The game was widely panned critically for poor design and crippling technical problems.\n\n"}
{"id": "1927554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1927554", "title": "Oak Island (North Carolina)", "text": "Oak Island (North Carolina)\n\nOak Island is located on the Atlantic Ocean coast in Brunswick County, North Carolina near the South Carolina border. A barrier island, it contains the towns of Oak Island and Caswell Beach, Fort Caswell (since 1949 home to the North Carolina Baptist Assembly) and the Oak Island Coast Guard Station which is co-located with the Oak Island Lighthouse. Almost 13 miles long, the island averages about one mile wide. Approximately 7000 people live on it year-round, a number which can balloon to over 40,000 during the summer\n\nRoughly 30 miles south of Wilmington, North Carolina, Oak Island is the easternmost of the South Brunswick Islands formed in the late 1930s by the construction of the Intracoastal Waterway (ICW). Dredged from Southport, North Carolina at the mouth of the Cape Fear River, the ICW flows south through coastal sounds and marshes to the Little River in South Carolina. Both ends of Oak Island have extensive marshland, while its two major internal waterways (Davis Canal and Montgomery Slough) run east to west and drain into the Lockwood Folly River. Elevations range from sea level to a 50' high knoll on the west end of the island.\n \n\nWhile Native Americans most likely used the island for fishing, the first permanent settlement took place in the 1830s on the island's east end at Fort Caswell. Now utilized as a Christian retreat and conference center, during the Civil War the fort defended Confederate positions on the North Carolina coast and subsequently served as an army training ground in World War I and a patrol/ communications base in World War II. In 2013, along with the Fort Caswell Rifle Range constructed during WWI, it was designated as a National Historic District.\n\nIn the early 1800s, in recognition of the dangers to navigation caused by Frying Pan Shoals, Jay Bird Shoals, and Bald Head Shoals, which lay south and southeast of the island, construction of a series of lighthouses and life saving stations in the area began. On Bald Head Island, this construction included Old Baldy completed in 1817, and on Oak Island, the 1889 Oak Island Life Saving Station located 1/2 mile west of Fort Caswell. Still standing today, this building features a large lookout tower projecting from its roof. In 1938 it was sold to a private owner and moved directly across the road from its original location near where the current lighthouse stands.\n\nBy the 1930s the island had blossomed into a vacation resort as beach cottages began to dot the area on its western half, something which Hurricane Hazel brought a temporary halt to in 1954 as it washed away some 350 buildings on or near the ocean front. One of the greatest natural disasters to ever affect the state, Hazel was also one of the most destructive hurricanes to strike the United States. The island quickly recovered and development continued anew with the towns of Long Beach and Yaupon Beach being incorporated in 1955; in 1999 they were jointly incorporated into the Town of Oak Island.\n\nBeach erosion has been a continuing problem for the island, with the first major success in restoration, the 2001 sand deposition on the east end of the island using material dredged from the Wilmington Harbor Channel. Since then, two similar projects have been completed along with other, smaller efforts, e.g two Sea Turtle Habitat Restoration Projects. Concern about the beach has also occasioned the creation of Beach Preservation Trust funds by both the Towns of Oak island and Caswell Beach and the formation of active citizen groups supporting the Natural Resources Defense Council \"Protect our Coast\" effort. One such group, familiarly known as the Oak Island Crabbies, is currently heading the Brunswick County effort opposing seismic testing and off shore drilling as proposed the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management (BOEM).\n\nIn 1958, the Oak Island Lighthouse became operational. Located on the east end of the island, in 2004 the Town of Caswell Beach acquired it and in 2007 it was added to the National Register of Historic Places. In 1962 the first 9 holes of the Oak Island Golf Club designed by George Cobb opened for play. The second nine holes was completed in 1975, the same year the Town of Caswell Beach was incorporated. As a result of both the course and island's sequential development, 13 holes of the golf course are in Caswell Beach while five holes are in the Town of Oak Island.\n\nAlong with this increasing level of development came strident demands for reliable access to and from the island. When the ICW was completed, a swingbridge initially provided this service. Destroyed by a barge strike in 1971, construction of a high rise replacement (Barbee Bridge) began almost immediately; it opened for traffic in 1975 (interim service included a ferry and pontoon bridge). A second high rise structure (Swain's Cut Bridge) crossing was completed in 2010.\n\nSummers on Oak Island are hot and humid with an average temperature of 85˚, although the beach front is cooled much of the time by sea breezes (the prevailing winds are from the southwest). Ocean water temperatures range from the 50s to the mid 80s. Winters are moderate with an average temperature in the 50s (°F), albeit with brief cold periods. Rain occurs throughout the year with average annual rainfall approximately 57\", 45% of this falling between June and September. Tropical storms are a continuing source of concern, e.g., in the 1996-1999 period, four major hurricanes (Bertha, Fran, Bonnie, and Floyd) made landfall and had significant effects on the area. More recently, in October 2016, the eye of Hurricane Matthew passed almost directly over the island inflicting significant damage to the dune system, and in September 2018, Hurricane Florence caused severe flooding and wind damage in addition to washing away most of the beach sand added earlier in the year.\n\nPrimarily a family beach type locale, the island also provides many other types of recreational activity. The Oak Island Golf course and its related practice facilities are open to the public and an outdoor swimming pool is available for its members' use during the summer. Two public fishing piers jut out into the Atlantic Ocean while motor/sail boats moored to piers dot the ICW as well as the Davis Canal and Montgomery Slough. All these waterways also attract a large number of kayakers. \nThe Oak Island Recreation Center located mid-island provides both indoor and outdoor exercise facilities and rents out sports equipment and amenities like balloon tire, beach wheelchairs. \nPopular sporting events include the \"Run Oak Island\" Marathon held in February which also features a half-marathon along with a 5K and one mile run. And then in April, the Southport/Oak Island Chamber of Commerce sponsors the \"Oak Island Lighthouse Run\" which includes a half marathon, 10K, 5K and a one mile fun run. \nAs for other activities, the Town of Oak Island puts on an ocean front fireworks display as part of its Fourth of July festivities, and a parade down Oak Island Drive just before Christmas. Tours of the Oak Island Lighthouse can be scheduled year round, with trips to the top available by appointment given two weeks advance notice (four weeks in the summer months). Monthly Civil War Roundtables are held at the Hatch Auditorium in the NC Baptist Assembly while the Oak Island Library hosts a wide variety of events to include \"Socrates Cafe\" and \"Meet the Author\" programs.\n\n"}
{"id": "1927559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1927559", "title": "City Heights, San Diego", "text": "City Heights, San Diego\n\nCity Heights is a large community in central San Diego, California, known for its ethnic diversity. The area was previously known as East San Diego. City Heights is located south of Mission Valley and northeast of Balboa Park.\n\nCity Heights is notable as a home to refugees and immigrants, with significant communities of Vietnamese, Somali, Cambodian, Laotian, and Latino residents. Many social and cultural resources, retail stores, and restaurants are operated by and/or serve the non-white population.\n\nMajor commercial streets include University Avenue, El Cajon Boulevard, Fairmount Avenue, and Euclid Avenue. City Heights is densely populated and has mostly multi-family apartments and homes.\n\nLike much of central, southern, and east San Diego County, City Heights sits on Kumeyaay territory. The area was occupied by Spanish Missionaries beginning in the 18 century, who founded the mission system at the Mission San Diego de Alcalá, just north of the area presently called City Heights, beginning the genocide and indigenous resistance.\n\nWhen Mexico gained independence from Spain in 1821, it claimed the land and secularized the mission system, distributing the lands to rancheros. When the United States annexed the land, the modern era of American settler colonialism began. Settlement and any later development was facilitated by the forced removal of Kumeyaay people to reservations begun by President Ulysses S. Grant in 1875.\n\nIn the 1880s, American entrepreneurs Abraham Klauber and Samuel Steiner purchased over of unincorporated land northeast of Balboa Park, hoping to profit from the area. Together they named it \"City Heights,\" though it was also known as the \"Steiner, Klauber, Choate and Castle Addition\" after the earlier developers of the property. The area was subdivided, and on November 2, 1912, eligible area voters voted to become an incorporated city known as East San Diego. Population boomed in the next few years from 400 in 1910 to 4,000 during the incorporation.\n\nOn December 31, 1923, the City of East San Diego voted, 1,344 to 1,109, for annexation into the City of San Diego, becoming once again a neighborhood known as City Heights. The East San Diego trustees did not immediately recognize the annexation in early 1924. Complete annexation occurred over the next few years with the City of San Diego taking over. \n\nDuring most of the 1930s, 1940s, and the 1950s the area had some suburban housing and was a commercial center for middle-class white residents, while people of color were segregated in south and east San Diego through discriminatory housing practices.\n\nIn the late 1950s, Caltrans planned the I-15 freeway to cut directly through the area, accelerating white flight and disinvestment. The development of Fashion Valley, Mission Valley and the College Grove Shopping Center siphoned off middle-class customers from the University Avenue and El Cajon Boulevard corridor.\n\nFollowing the Vietnam War, many refugees from Southeast Asia arrived to the United States at Camp Pendleton, San Diego. Many Vietnamese, Cambodian, and Thai refugees settled in City Heights during the 1970s and 80s, due to the cheap rents resulting from disinvestment. From the 1980s to the 1990s, resettlement agencies directed many refugees from the Somali Civil War to City Heights.\n\nDuring the late 20 century, the area had a high concentration of low-income residents, most of whom were renters and 30% of whom lived below the poverty line. Following the passage of Proposition 187 in 1994, which prevented undocumented immigrants from accessing government services, public services, healthcare, and welfare became even less accessible. City Heights churches often provided key services and continue to act as community centers.\n\nBy the 1990s, the area was described in the local media as one of the \"urban edges where the inner city bleeds into the suburbs\" and was widely portrayed as a crime hotspot. Drawing on American racism, Somali and African American youth were frequently portrayed, often through \"culture of poverty\" scripts, as primarily responsible for the crime and poverty in City Heights. Officials believed police intervention was the only measure available to address the deteriorating conditions. Anti-gang programs implemented by police and city leaders targeted and often arrested Somali men for loitering in public or hanging out near businesses.\n\nIn the mid-1990s, businessman and philanthropist Sol Price led and financed a redevelopment plan to create a multi-block \"urban village,\" of which a new San Diego Police substation was to be the cornerstone. An economic development non-profit (Mid-City Development Corp.) and area homeowners had proposed building the new substation in 1993, however, the city was unable or unwilling to put up the $3 million needed to build the station. With Price's funding, the station opened in 1996.\n\nBy 2000, Price had spent $70 million on the redevelopment of City Heights through his \"urban village\" model. This redevelopment format, which evolved from the Mid-City Communities Plan, became officially codified into the \"City of Villages\" plan adopted by the City of San Diego in the 2002 General Plan, which continues to guide the city's urban policy. \n\nThe late 1990s and early 2000s saw redevelopment in City Heights continue, as new public facilities — including schools, a library, and a community center — opened around the newly developed center, through public-private partnerships. The additional public services and new commercial center were well-received by residents. The Price-backed housing developments have received criticism for mainly serving moderate-income people, however, and the general sense of experimentation led some to dub the area \"Guinea Pig Heights.\"\n\nSince the 1990s, the demographics of the neighborhood have been changing. More middle- and upper-class Latinx and Asian residents have moved to City Heights, while the number of Black residents, particularly those who are low-income, has decreased sharply. Rents and property prices have increased, sometimes by double or triple. The area has still been considered cheaper than other central San Diego areas which have undergone or are undergoing gentrification. It remains home to many refugees and immigrants from Latin America, Africa, Southeast Asia, Western Asia and North Africa.\n\nAccording to 2017 reports, City Heights has lower rates of violent crime and property crime than nearby North Park and Hillcrest, as well as Downtown Gaslamp, and East Village.\n\n\"San Diego Magazine\" named City Heights as one of the best places to live in San Diego in 2015. That year, the San Diego Indiefest music festival took place in City Heights' Urban Village. Recent developments have included an alternative fuel station, a new retail complex with some mixed-use developments, several expanded schools, and new parks.\n\nBy 2019, the area had been designated as an \"Economic Opportunity Zone,\" which qualifies investors for tax breaks and other forms of corporate welfare, a policy which may accelerate the displacement of low-income residents. Gentrification in North Park has been trickling up University Avenue towards City Heights, with new events and businesses drawing higher-income residents, many of whom are middle- and upper-class Latinx professionals, to the area.\n\nCity Heights is large and diffuse, with many sub-neighborhoods. The community is divided into two pieces by Fairmount Avenue: City Heights East and City Heights West. The community is bounded by Interstate 805 to the west, El Cajon Boulevard to the north, 54th Street to the east, and Home Avenue/Euclid Avenue/Chollas Parkway to the southeast.\n\n\"Downtown\" City Heights is generally regarded as around Fairmount and University Avenues. \n\nThe community is further divided into sixteen neighborhoods: Teralta East, Teralta West, Corridor, Cherokee Point, Colina Park, Castle, Fairmount Park, Fairmount Village, Fox Canyon, Islenair (a city-designated historic district), Chollas Creek, Swan Canyon, Azalea Park, Hollywood Park, Ridgeview, and Bayridge.\n\nLike other urban neighborhoods north of Balboa Park, City Heights also has a high rate of pedestrian activity relative to the rest of San Diego.\n\nCity Heights had a population of 74,843 as of 2015, according to SANDAG. City Heights is majority Latinx and low-income.\n\nCity Heights is home to significant Vietnamese, Somali, Cambodian, and Laotian communities.\n\n70% of households make less than $44,999, with median household income at $29,710 as of 2015, adjusted for inflation.\n\nThe median age is approximately 30 years old. Most housing in City Heights is multi-family.\n\nThe annual International Village Celebration is held around late spring or early summer and is aimed at highlighting the community's diversity.\n\n\nSome key community churches include:\n\n\nVietnamese, Chinese, Mexican, Somali, and Eritrean/Ethiopian restaurants are located along the main commercial streets of University Avenue, El Cajon Boulevard and Fairmount Avenue. There are also pubs and bars, such as the historic Tower Bar, Black Cat Bar, Til-Two Club, Soda Bar and El Coqui Grill. \n\n\n\n\n\nThe Little Saigon San Diego Foundation was established in early 2009 with a stated mission to \"revitalize the densely populated Vietnamese business district of El Cajon Boulevard.\"\n\nOn June 4, 2013, City Council approved Little Saigon Cultural and Commercial District in City Heights, which is a six-block section of El Cajon Boulevard from Euclid to Highland avenues. The district would be known as a center for Vietnamese food and culture. Since 2013, the Little Saigon San Diego Foundation has organized one of the Vietnamese new year (Tết) events in the city with the annual Lunar New Year festival at the SDCCU Stadium (formerly known as Qualcomm Stadium), where proceeds would go towards developing and promoting the district. The foundation's festival is a separate event and does not have any affiliation with the San Diego Tết Festival organized by VAYA (Vietnamese-American Youth Alliance), which was established in 2006 and annually held at Mira Mesa Community Park.\n\nOn February 1, 2019, the Little Saigon signs were revealed to be installed near El Cajon Boulevard exits on Interstate 15.\n\nCity Heights has walkable neighborhoods with many of the restaurants, businesses and shops near the main residential pockets. It is common to see pedestrians, cyclists and scooters throughout the neighborhood and surrounding communities. Centrally located within San Diego, City Heights has easy access to freeways, Mission Valley commercial centers and the downtown area. University Avenue, El Cajon Boulevard and Fairmount Avenue are the major thoroughfares.\n\nBecause of the presence of the University Avenue transit corridor (the busiest in the metro region), City Heights has substantial bus service connecting to Downtown and the Mission Valley trolley stops. Bus lines serviced by the City Heights Transit Plaza are the 235-RAPID, 7, 10, 60, and 965.\n\nCity Heights is home to twelve public elementary schools, three public middle schools, two public high schools, and two private grade schools, and three charter schools.\n\nAll public schools are in the San Diego Unified School District.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe area is part of City Council District 9, currently represented by Georgette Gomez. City Heights is also part of California's 80th State Assembly district, currently represented by Lorena Gonzalez. The City Heights Area Planning Committee advises the city on land use and other issues. Volunteer organizations include the City Heights Town Council and the City Heights Business Association.\n"}
{"id": "1927563", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1927563", "title": "Roman of Bulgaria", "text": "Roman of Bulgaria\n\nRoman (; 930s–997) was emperor (tsar) of Bulgaria from 977 to 991, being in Byzantine captivity thereafter still claiming the title.\n\nRoman was the second surviving son of Emperor Peter I of Bulgaria by his marriage with Maria (renamed Eirene) Lekapene, the granddaughter of the Byzantine Emperor Romanos I Lekapenos. It is possible that he had the double name Roman-Simeon, but this may be due to confusion with another man in the sources. He was born around 930, and had probably visited Constantinople with his mother and older brothers soon after 931.\n\nWe know nothing about Roman’s life until 968, when he joined his older brother Boris in Constantinople to negotiate a peace agreement between Bulgaria and Byzantium, during which they apparently served as honorary hostages at the Byzantine court. On their father’s abdication in 969, Boris and Roman returned to Bulgaria, where Boris II succeeded as emperor. Roman may have been proclaimed co-emperor in accordance with Byzantine usage, but the evidence for that is vague.\n\nIn Bulgaria Roman probably shared his brother’s destiny, becoming first a pawn in the hands of Prince Sviatoslav I of Kiev and then in those of the Byzantine Emperor John I Tzimiskes. After the latter’s victory in 971, Roman was taken to Constantinople together with his brother’s family. To ensure that the Bulgarian dynasty would die out (Boris II apparently had only daughters), the Byzantine emperor had Roman castrated. Boris and Roman remained in honorary captivity at the imperial palace until after the death of the emperor in 976.\n\nAt this point the raids of the Cometopuli into Byzantine possessions in Macedonia led to a Byzantine stratagem intended to divide the leadership of the still-unconquered Bulgarian lands in the west. Temporarily jailed, Boris and Roman were allowed to escape in 977. During their attempt to cross the Bulgarian border, Boris II was taken for an enemy and killed by a guard. Roman managed to identify himself to the Bulgarian patrols, and was duly recognized by the Bulgarians as emperor.\n\nAlthough Roman was acknowledged as the official Bulgarian ruler, most of the military matters were left in the hands of Samuil, who was the youngest brother of the Cometopuli dynasty, and Roman devoted to church deeds similar to his father Peter in his end of life. During one of his invasions of Bulgaria, the Byzantine Emperor Basil II succeeded in capturing Roman in 991. Roman remained in Byzantine captivity until his death in 997, and it was only then that Samuel took the Bulgarian imperial title. Such, at least, is the sequence of events reported by the trustworthy historian Yahya of Antioch.\n\nAccording to the later testimony of the Byzantine chronicler John Skylitzes, in 1004 Skopje was surrendered to Basil II by its governor Roman Simeon, who may have been mistaken for Emperor Roman in the text. Roman-Simeon received the title of \"patrikios\" and was named military governor or \"strategos\" of the theme of Abydos.'\n\n"}
{"id": "1927575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1927575", "title": "Hitman (disambiguation)", "text": "Hitman (disambiguation)\n\nA hitman is an assassin involved in contract killing.\n\nHitman, Hit Man, or Hitmen may also refer to:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1927584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1927584", "title": "Egg cup", "text": "Egg cup\n\nAn egg cup, sometimes called an egg server, is an item of tableware used for serving and holding boiled eggs within their shell. Egg cups have an upwardly concave portion to hold the egg and a flat-bottomed base. Egg cups can be made from a variety of materials, including bakelite, glass, plastic, porcelain, pottery, various metals. and wood, or a combination of two materials, such as ceramic and wood.\n\nAn early silver egg cup was found in the ruins of Pompeii.\n\nEgg cups are collectible items. Collecting egg cups is called \"pocillovy\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1927586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1927586", "title": "Cyrtomium", "text": "Cyrtomium\n\nCyrtomium is a genus of about 35 species of ferns in the family Dryopteridaceae, subfamily Dryopteridoideae, according to the Pteridophyte Phylogeny Group classification of 2016 (PPG I). Species are native to Asia, Africa (including Madagascar), and the Pacific Ocean islands (Hawaii). It is very closely related to the genus \"Polystichum\", with 2016 research suggesting it should be included in a clade sister to \"Polystichum\" s.s.\n\n, the \"Checklist of Ferns and Lycophytes of the World\" accepted the following species:\n\n"}
{"id": "1927593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1927593", "title": "Kán", "text": "Kán\n\nKán is the name of a Hungarian noble family which gave bans (governors) to Croatia and Slavonia, voivodes to Transylvania, and palatines to Hungary in the 13th and 14th centuries.\n\nThe Kán family were members of the Hermány clan. They crossed the Carpathian mountains together with Árpád, leader of the Magyars, and settled in Pannonia in 895. They were Counts of Siklós from the year 900.\n\nNotable members of the family include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1927602", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1927602", "title": "Guido Adler", "text": "Guido Adler\n\nGuido Adler (1 November 1855, Ivančice (Eibenschütz), Moravia – 15 February 1941, Vienna) was a Bohemian-Austrian musicologist and writer.\n\nHis father Joachim, a physician, died of typhoid fever in 1857. Joachim contracted the illness from a patient, and therefore told his wife Franciska to \"never allow any of the children to become a doctor\".\n\nAdler studied at the University of Vienna and — at the same time (1868-1874) — the Vienna Conservatory of Music (where he studied piano (main subject) and music theory and composition under Anton Bruckner and Otto Dessoff). He received an arts diploma from the conservatory in 1874. In 1878, he graduated from University of Vienna as doctor of jurisprudence, and in 1880 as doctor of philosophy. His dissertation, \"Die Grundklassen der Christlich-Abendländischen Musik bis 1600\" (\"The Chief Divisions of Western Church Music up to 1600\"), was reprinted in \"\".\n\nIn 1883 Adler became lecturer in musicology at \"University of Vienna\", on which occasion he wrote \"Eine Studie zur Geschichte der Harmonie\" (\"An Essay on the History of Harmony\"), published in the \"\"Sitzungsberichte der Philosophisch-Historischen Klasse der Wiener Academie der Wissenschaften\"\", 1881.\n\nIn 1884 he founded (with Friedrich Chrysander and Philipp Spitta) the \"Vierteljahresschrift für Musikwissenschaft\" \"(Musicology Quarterly)\". Adler provided the first article of the first issue, \"Umfang, Methode und Ziel der Musikwissenschaft\" (\"The Scope, Method, and Aim of Musicology\", 1885), which not only constitutes the first attempt at a comprehensive description of the study of music, but also famously divides the discipline into two subdisciplines, \"historische Musikwissenschaft\" (historical musicology) and \"systematische Musikwissenschaft\" (\"systematic musicology\"). In Adler's article, systematic musicology included \"Musikologie\" or \"vergleichende Musikwissenschaft\" (comparative musicology), which later became an independent discipline (cf. \"ethnomusicology\"). Although these subfields do not exactly line up with current practice, they are roughly maintained in modern European musicology and roughly correspond to the North American division of musicology into music history (often called \"musicology\"), music theory, and ethnomusicology.\n\nIn 1885 he was called to the newly established German University of Prague, Bohemia, as ordinary professor of the history and theory of music, and in 1898, in the same capacity, to the University of Vienna, where he succeeded Eduard Hanslick. His students at the Musikwissenschaftliches Institut included Anton Webern and composer Karel Navrátil.\n\nIn 1886, he published \"Die Wiederholung und Nachahmung in der Mehrstimmigkeit\"; in 1888, \"Ein Satz eines Unbekannten Beethovenischen Klavierkoncerts\". In 1892-93 he edited a selection of musical compositions of the Emperors Ferdinand III, Leopold I, and Joseph I (two vols.). Between 1894 and 1938 he was editor of \"Denkmäler der Tonkunst in Österreich\", a seminal publication in music history.\n\nAdler was the first music historian to emphasize style criticism in research. His attitudes and procedures are evident in the Handbuch der Musikgeschichte (“Handbook of Music History”), of which he became the editor in 1924.\n\nAfter the Anschluss in 1938, Adler was forced to resign from his position as editor of \"Denkmäler der Tonkunst in Österreich\". Following his death in 1941, his library was taken from his daughter, Melanie Karoline Adler, and subsumed into the collections of the University of Vienna. At the end of World War II, the large part of Adler's library was returned to his son. Much of his library is now housed at the University of Georgia and other important items are in the Houghton Library at Harvard University.\n\nAdler was one of the founders of musicology as a discipline (\"Musikwissenschaft\"). He was also among the first scholars in music to recognize the relevance of sociocultural factors to music (\"Musiksoziologie\"), thereby providing a broader context for aesthetic criticism which, with biography, had been the primary focus of 19th century music scholarship. Empirical study was for him the most important part of the discipline. His own emphasis was on the music of Austria, specifically the music of the First Viennese School: Haydn, Mozart and their contemporaries.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1927603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1927603", "title": "Debbie Travis", "text": "Debbie Travis\n\nDebbie Travis (born September 25, 1960 in Blackburn, Lancashire, England) is a British-Canadian television personality, self-taught interior decorator, and former fashion model. She is best known as the host of \"Debbie Travis' Facelift\" and \"Debbie Travis' Painted House\". The shows were based out of Montreal, Quebec and Facelift was produced for Home & Garden Television Canada.\n\nTravis grew up in Rochdale, Lancashire/Greater Manchester. After a 6-year adult-modelling career, she worked in television as a freelance editor and producer. Travis met her future husband Hans Rosenstein, a television distributor, in 1985 during a visit to a television buyers' market in Cannes. They married soon after and moved to Montreal, Quebec, Canada.\n\nAfter redecorating her old Victorian house using paint effects, Travis formed a small decorating business which quickly grew to include commissions from large department stores, auditoriums, theatres, and grand reception halls. Her work attracted media attention, and Travis opened a small studio and hired a partner to teach workshops to both professional decorators and homeowners. She later produced an instructional video entitled \"Decorative Paint Finishes Made Easy\", and later produced three additional, more advanced instructional videos, available in both French and English.\n\nTravis hosted \"Debbie Travis' Painted House\" from 1995 to 2002, airing on the Women's Television Network (later W Network). Travis was awarded two Gemini Awards for the series.\n\nIn 2006, Travis hosted \"From The Ground Up with Debbie Travis\" on Global TV for two seasons. In 2010, Travis hosted the series \"All for One\" on CBC Television.\n\nIn December 2010, Travis hosted the CBC show \"Corrie Crazy: Canada Loves Coronation Street\", exploring Canadians' love of the British TV series Coronation Street.\n\nTravis and Hans Rosenstein are partners in the production company Whalley-Abbey Media, which has produced all the Debbie Travis-branded television shows. She is also a partner and executive producer along with Kit Redmond and Hans Rosenstein for RTR Media in Toronto. She has served as an executive producer for all Whalley-Abbey and RTR Media productions, including Buy Me, Property Shop, Income Property and Maxed Out.\n\nTravis is also known for her weekly syndicated column which appears in many newspapers and is titled \"Debbie Travis House to Home\", to which readers often write in to have their decorating questions answered.\n\nTravis has authored 9 books on decorating and painting techniques, as well as an autobiographical book on parenting.\n\nIn 2005, Travis launched her own paint and home products line available from Canadian Tire and continues as president of the branding company, Debbie Travis Branding, Inc., located in Toronto. A fine wine collection bearing her name was released in 2016.\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "1927612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1927612", "title": "Amenemhat II", "text": "Amenemhat II\n\nNubkaure Amenemhat II was the third pharaoh of the 12th Dynasty of Ancient Egypt. Although he ruled for at least 35 years, his reign is rather obscure, as well as his family relationships.\n\nArchaeological findings have provided the name of Amenemhat's mother, the \"king's mother\" Neferu III, but not the name of his father. Nevertheless, it is commonly assumed that he was a son of his predecessor Senusret I. An early attestation of Amenemhat may have come from the tomb of the namesake nomarch Amenemhat, buried at Beni Hasan This nomarch, who lived under Senusret I, escorted the \"King's son Ameny\" in an expedition to Nubia, and it is believed that this prince Ameny was no other than Amenemhat II in his youth.\n\nThe identity of Amenemhat's queen consort is unknown. Many royal women were buried within his pyramid complex, but their relationships with the king are unclear: a queen Keminub must be dated to the later 13th Dynasty, and three \"king's daughters\" named Ita, Itaweret, and Khenmet may have been Amenemhat's daughters, although a definitive proof is still lacking. His successor Senusret II was likely his son, although this is never explicitly stated anywhere. Other children were prince Amenemhatankh and the princesses Nofret II and Khenemetneferhedjet, likely the same person of Khenemetneferhedjet I; both those ladies later became wives of their purported brother Senusret II.\n\nAmenemhat II was once believed to have shared a period of coregency with his predecessor Senusret I, an hypothesis based on the double-dated stela of an official named Wepwawetō (Leiden, V4) that bears the regnal year 44 of Senusret I and the regnal year 2 of Amenemhat II. The existence of such coregency is now considered unlikely and the meaning of the double-date on the stela is interpreted as a time range when Wepwawetō was in charge, from Senusret I's year 44 to Amenemhat II's year 2.\n\nThe most important record for Amenemhat's early reign is on fragments of the so-called \"Annals of Amenemhat II\" unearthed at Memphis (later reused during the 19th Dynasty). It provides records of donations to temples and, sometimes, of political events. Among the latter, there is a mention of a military expedition into Asia, the destruction of two cities – Iuai and Iasy – whose location is still unknown, and the coming of tribute-bearers from Asia and Kush.\nUnder Amenemhat II several mining expeditions are known: at least 3 in the Sinai, one in the Wadi Gasus (year 28) and one in search for amethysts in the Wadi el-Hudi. He is known to have ordered building works at Heliopolis, Herakleopolis, Memphis, in the Eastern Delta, and rebuilt a ruined temple at Hermopolis. There are some mentions of the building of a \"First temple\" but it is still unclear what it should have been. A well-known finding associated with Amenemhat II is the Great Sphinx of Tanis (Louvre A23), later usurped by many other pharaohs. He is also named on the boxes of a treasure of silver objects found under the temple of Montu at Tod: notably, many of these objects are not of Egyptian workmanship but rather Aegean, evidencing contacts between Egypt and foreign civilizations in the Middle Kingdom. Many private stelae bears Amenemhat's cartouches – and sometimes even his regnal years – but are of little help in providing useful information about the events of his reign.\n\nSome members of Amenemhat's court are known. Senusret was the vizier at the beginning of his reign, and one of his successors was Ameny, later likely followed by Siese who had a remarkable career and also was a treasurer and a high steward before his vizierate. Beside Siese, other known treasurers were Rehuerdjersen and Merykau. The \"overseer of the gateway\", Khentykhetywer, was buried near the king's pyramid. Other known officials were the \"overseers of the chamber\", Snofru and Senitef, and the royal scribe and \"iry-pat\" Samont. As \"great overseer of troops\", a certain Ameny dates most likely under the king.\n\nAmenemhat II and his successor Senusret II shared a brief coregency, the only unquestionable one of the whole Middle Kingdom. Unlike most of the double-dated monuments, the stela of Hapu from Konosso explicitly states that these two kings ruled together for a while and that the regnal year 3 of Senusret II equates the regnal year 35 of Amenemhat II. Amenemhat's year 35 on the stela of Hapu is also the highest date known for him.\n\nUnlike his two predecessors who built their pyramids at Lisht, Amenemhat II chose Dahshur for this purpose, a location which was no more used as royal cemetery since the time of Sneferu and his Red Pyramid (4th Dynasty). At the present time, Amenemhat's pyramid – originally called \"Amenu-sekhem\", but best known today as the White Pyramid – is poorly preserved and excavated. The mortuary temple adjacent the pyramid was called \"Djefa-Amenemhat\". Many people were buried within the pyramid complex, whose tombs were rediscovered by Jacques de Morgan in 1894/5: the three aforementioned princesses Ita, Itaweret, and Khenmet were found untouched, still containing their beautiful jewels, and also the tombs of the lady Sathathormeryt, the treasurer Amenhotep, and the queen Keminub; unlike the others, the latter two were looted in antiquity and are dated to the subsequent 13th Dynasty.\n"}
{"id": "1927614", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1927614", "title": "Corliss Williamson", "text": "Corliss Williamson\n\nCorliss Mondari Williamson (born December 4, 1973) is an American basketball coach and former basketball player who played for four teams during his 12-year NBA career. He last served as an assistant coach for the Phoenix Suns. His nickname is \"Big Nasty\", a moniker he received from his AAU coach when he was 13. Williamson was a dominating power forward in college, but an undersized power forward in the NBA and mostly played at the small forward position.\n\nCorliss Williamson played basketball at Russellville High School, where he achieved numerous accolades. He was a three-time all-conference and all-state selection, and was named the Gatorade National Player of the Year in 1991 and 1992. Prior to his senior year, Williamson held his own against future teammate Chris Webber in an AAU championship game, getting 37 points to Webber's 38 points. As a senior Williamson averaged twenty-eight points and nine rebounds per game, and led his team to the King Cotton Classic championship. In the title game, Russellville defeated a team led by Jason Kidd, with Williamson blocking a potential game-winner by Kidd at the buzzer. Williamson was named tournament MVP, but gave his medal to his teammate, Marcus Thompson, at the award podium. Williamson closed out his high school career with a selection to play in the 1992 McDonald's All-American Game. He came in second in scoring to game MVP Othella Harrington, with fourteen points, and also had ten rebounds. His #34 jersey has been retired by Russellville High and hangs on the wall of the school's arena, along with his McDonald's All-American jersey.\n\nWilliamson played at the University of Arkansas from 1992 to 1995. In the 1992–93 season, Williamson led Arkansas to a 22–9 record and a Sweet 16 appearance in the NCAA Tournament, losing to the eventual national champion, the North Carolina Tar Heels. Williamson averaged 14.6 points and 5.1 rebounds per game, and was named to the SEC All-Freshman Team.\n\nIn the 1993-94 season, Williamson was named Most Outstanding Player of the NCAA Tournament while leading the Razorbacks to a 31–3 record and their only championship under coach Richardson by defeating the Duke Blue Devils, 76-72, in the title game. Williamson led the team into the championship game in 1995 as well, but Arkansas lost to UCLA, finishing 32–7.\n\nIn three seasons at Arkansas, Williamson was named to the SEC All-Freshman Team in 1993, and was 1st Team All-SEC in 1993, 1994, and 1995. He was also named the SEC Player of the Year for the 1993–94 and 1994–95 seasons, and was named 2nd Team All-American for both years as well. In addition to the 1994 NCAA National Championship, Williamson also led the Razorbacks to the SEC West Division title all three seasons, and the SEC regular season championship in 1994. Williamson finished his career at Arkansas with 1,728 points, which ranks 8th all-time in school history. Williamson was inducted into the Arkansas Sports Hall of Fame in 2009. His jersey (#34) is one of only two that have ever been retired by the University of Arkansas, along with Sidney Moncrief (#32). He is considered one of the five greatest players in school history.\n\nWilliamson declared for the NBA Draft following his junior season, and was selected by the Sacramento Kings as a lottery pick (13th overall) in the first round of the 1995 NBA Draft.\nHis best career year was in the 1997–98 season when he played 79 games and averaged 17.7 points per game for the Kings, finishing second to Alan Henderson for the NBA Most Improved Player Award. After Sacramento traded him prior to the 2000–01 season to the Toronto Raptors (in exchange for Doug Christie), for whom he played 42 games, Williamson was traded to the Detroit Pistons, along with Kornel David, Tyrone Corbin, and a 2005 first-round draft choice in a package for Jerome Williams and Eric Montross. In the 2001–02 season he was named the NBA's Sixth Man of the Year and eventually was a member of the Pistons' 2003–04 NBA Championship team. Although coming off the bench, Williamson served a pivotal role in the Detroit offense. His coaches often looked to him in the low post when the Pistons needed a basket, where his unique skill set made him a difficult matchup as he was too powerful for small forwards to guard and too quick for power forwards. After being traded by the Pistons along with an undisclosed amount of cash to the Philadelphia 76ers for Derrick Coleman and Amal McCaskill on August 8, 2004, he was again traded back to the Kings along with Brian Skinner and Kenny Thomas for power forward Chris Webber on February 22, 2005.\n\nWilliamson has the distinction of being one of the few professional basketball players to win championships at three different levels, AAU, the NCAA with Arkansas, and the NBA with Detroit.\n\nWilliamson announced his retirement in September 2007 to become an assistant coach at Arkansas Baptist College. He worked as a volunteer coach during his three years at Arkansas Baptist, succeeding Charles Ripley as the head coach for his final season at the school.\n\nOn March 12, 2010, Williamson was announced as the men's head basketball coach at the University of Central Arkansas in Conway, Arkansas. Promising to play an exciting style of play similar to his former head coach Nolan Richardson, Williamson's teams improved gradually each season, but still never won more than half of their games.\n\nOn August 2, 2013, Williamson left Central Arkansas to become an assistant for the Sacramento Kings.\n\nOn June 29, 2016, it was announced that Williamson had left the Kings to take an assistant coaching position with the Orlando Magic under new head coach Frank Vogel. Vogel previously was an assistant coach to Williamson back when he played under the 76ers. However, after Frank Vogel was fired in 2018, Williamson would be fired as well.\n\nOn May 22, 2018, it was announced that Williamson would be hired by the Phoenix Suns as an assistant coach under new head coach Igor Kokoškov. Williamson was previously connected to Igor by playing under him back when Kokoškov was an assistant coach for the Detroit Pistons during the 2003–04 championship season. However, when Kokoškov was fired after his only season as head coach for the Suns, Williamson would also be fired alongside the rest of the team's coaching staff that season.\n"}
{"id": "1927621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1927621", "title": "Distributed File System (Microsoft)", "text": "Distributed File System (Microsoft)\n\nDistributed File System (DFS) is a set of client and server services that allow an organization using Microsoft Windows servers to organize many distributed SMB file shares into a distributed file system. DFS has two components to its service: Location transparency (via the namespace component) and Redundancy (via the file replication component). Together, these components improve data availability in the case of failure or heavy load by allowing shares in multiple different locations to be logically grouped under one folder, the \"DFS root\".\n\nMicrosoft's DFS is referred to interchangeably as 'DFS' and 'Dfs' by Microsoft and is unrelated to the DCE Distributed File System, which held the 'DFS' trademark but was discontinued in 2005.\n\nIt is also called \"MS-DFS\" or \"MSDFS\" in some contexts, e.g. in the Samba user space project.\n\nThere is no requirement to use the two components of DFS together; it is perfectly possible to use the logical namespace component without using DFS file replication, and it is perfectly possible to use file replication between servers without combining them into one namespace.\n\nA DFS root can only exist on a server version of Windows (from Windows NT 4.0 and up) and OpenSolaris (in kernel space) or a computer running Samba (in user space.) The Enterprise and Datacenter Editions of Windows Server can host multiple DFS roots on the same server. OpenSolaris intends on supporting multiple DFS roots in \"a future project based on Active Directory (AD) domain-based DFS namespaces\".\n\nThere are two ways of implementing DFS on a server:\n\nTraditional file shares, associated with a single server, have SMB paths of the form Domain-based DFS file share paths are distinguished by using the domain name in place of the server name, in the form When a user accesses such a share, either directly or by mapping a drive, their computer will access one of the available servers associated with that share, following rules which can be configured by the network administrator. For example, the default behaviour is that users will access the closest server to them; but this can be overridden to prefer a particular server.\n\nIf a server fails, the client can select a different server transparently to the user. One major caveat regarding this flexibility is that currently-open files will potentially become unusable, as open files cannot be failed-over.\n\nEarly versions of DFS used Microsoft's File Replication Service (FRS) which provides basic file replication capability between servers. FRS identifies changed or new files, and copies the latest version of the entire file to all servers.\n\nWindows Server 2003 R2 introduced \"DFS Replication\" (DFSR) which improves on FRS by only copying those parts of files which have changed (remote differential compression), by using data compression to reduce network traffic, and by allowing administrators flexible configuration options for limiting network traffic with a customizable schedule.\n\nThe server component of Distributed File System was first introduced as an add-on to Windows NT 4.0 Server, called \"DFS 4.1\", and was later included as a standard component of all editions of Windows 2000 Server. \nClient-side support is included in Windows NT 4.0 and later versions of Windows. \n\nLinux kernels 2.6.14 and later come with an SMB client VFS called \"cifs\" that supports DFS. \n\nOn Mac OS X DFS is supported natively in Mac OS X 10.7 (\"Lion\") onward.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1927622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1927622", "title": "Violent J", "text": "Violent J\n\nJoseph Francis Bruce (born April 28, 1972), known by his stage name Violent J, is an American rapper, record producer, professional wrestler, and part of the hip hop duo Insane Clown Posse. He is co-founder of the record label \"Psychopathic Records\", with fellow ICP rapper Shaggy 2 Dope (Joseph Utsler) and their former manager, Alex Abbiss. Also along with Utsler, Bruce is the co-founder of the professional wrestling promotion Juggalo Championship Wrestling.\n\nJoseph Bruce is a native of Berkley, Michigan. He was the last born of three children. His father, Richard Bruce, stole all of the family's money and left when Bruce was two years old. Joe's mother, Linda, was forced to care for him and his siblings, Robert and Theresa, off the income she made as a janitor. At age seven, Joe and his brother caught a butterfly, and both were fascinated by the vibrant colors and overall peacefulness of the creature. They kept the butterfly in a jar overnight, and intended to free it the following morning. When they awoke, the brothers found the butterfly had died, and felt as if they had committed a murder. The brothers made a vow that \"one day, [they] will make it to heaven, so that [they] can [...] apologize to that Butterfly face-to-face.\" On every Insane Clown Posse album and EP it reads \"Dedicated to the Butterfly.\"\n\nBruce received all of his clothes from rummage sales, and his food from canned food drives held at his own school. After moving to Oak Park, Bruce met John Utsler, and his little brother Joey. He also began his gang life by reluctantly getting involved in criminal activity in Royal Oak Township. Along with John and Joey, Bruce got heavily into rap music. In 1989, Bruce, as Jagged Joe, Joseph Utsler, as Kangol Joe, and John Utsler, as Master J, released the single titled \"Party at the Top of the Hill\" under the name of \"JJ Boys\", but they did not pursue a serious career in music.\n\nBruce dropped out of school in ninth grade, and moved in with his friend, Rudy, in River Rouge. There he formed his own gang called Inner City Posse, which would terrorize people with Army-issued tear gas and steal car radios for money. One night, Joe's mother, who had just moved to Ferndale, had her house attacked by rival gang, Hazel Park Posse (HPP), from Hazel Park. Fearing for his mother's life, Joe fled to Bonnie Doone, North Carolina, a trailer park town just outside Fort Bragg, where his brother was staying with the U.S. Army. It was there that Bruce witnessed the open racism which would later emerge as the hate for bigots referenced in Insane Clown Posse's lyrics.\n\nAt seventeen, Joe returned to Ferndale. He was soon jailed, and the experience convinced him to get away from gang life. In 1989, after a short career in professional wrestling, Bruce and his friend Dale Miettinen Jr. recorded \"Intelligence and Violence\" on a karaoke machine, which marked the debut of Bruce's stage name Violent J. Joe bought his own karaoke machine and, along with Joey and John Utsler, formed the music group Inner City Posse, named after their gang. After the release of the album \"Bass-Ment Cuts\", the group hired record store owner Alex Abbiss as their manager, and established the Psychopathic Records record label with him in 1991.\n\nIn 1990, Bruce recorded his first solo release, \"Enter the Ghetto Zone\", using two cassette players. One played the beat, while the other recorded, and Bruce stuck his head between the two and rapped. In 2003, Bruce released his second solo release \"Wizard of the Hood\", which was an extended reference to the Wizard of the Hood songs which he recorded on Inner City Posse's \"Intelligence and Violence\" and \"Dog Beats\", and Insane Clown Posse's \"Carnival of Carnage\". In 2009, Bruce released the LP \"The Shining\", which was initially given away for free at the 2008 Gathering of the Juggalos before being nationally released. During ICP's GOTJ 2013 seminar J and Shaggy stated that they were wanting to do solo albums. On December 10, 2015 with the release of \"Phantom: X-tra Spooky\" EP two flyers were released. One for Shaggy 2 Dope's new solo album titled \"F.T.F.O.M.F.\" said to be released in 2016. The other flyer was for Violent J's new solo album titled \"Karma Forest\" said to be released in 2016.\n\nIn late 1991, \"Inner City Posse\" changed their style, look, and name. Bruce recalled a dream of a clown running around in Delray, which became the inspiration for the group's new name: Insane Clown Posse. Upon returning home that night, Bruce had a dream in which spirits in a traveling carnival appeared to him—an image that would become the basis for the Dark Carnival mythology detailed in the group's Joker's Cards series. These stories each offer a specific lesson designed to change the \"evil ways\" of listeners before \"the end consumes us all.\" Insane Clown Posse has a dedicated following, often referred to by the group as Juggalos and Juggalettes.\n\nJohn Utsler left the group about a month before the release of \"Carnival of Carnage\" and Insane Clown Posse has since been composed of Joseph Bruce and Joseph Utsler, who perform under the respective personas of the murderous, wicked clowns Violent J and Shaggy 2 Dope. The duo performs a style of hardcore hip hop known as \"horrorcore\", and is known for its dark, violent lyrics and elaborate live performances. Insane Clown Posse has earned two platinum and five gold albums. According to Nielsen SoundScan, the entire catalog of the group has sold 6.5 million units in the United States and Canada as of April 2007.\n\nGolden Goldies was a comical group whose lyrics focused solely on gold. The group consisted of Psychopathic Record's employees and friends; Joseph Bruce (Golden Jelly), Joseph Utsler (Gold D), Robert Bruce (Golden Gram), Billy Bill (Gold Double B), Alex Abbiss (Gold Rocks), Mike E. Clark (Gold Digger), Rich Murrell (Golden Warrior), Frank Giammanco (Golden Frank), Keith Jex (Gold Teeth), Josh Silverstein (Rold Gold), Kelly Eubanks (Gold Spud), Dave Fink the East Side G (Golden Toby), and Matt Mackalantie (Gold Spakalantie). Their only LP, \"Gimme Them Fuckin' Nuggets Bitch, Or I'll Punch Your Fuckin' Face\", was recorded in 1995 in a span of one week, and was not publicly released. Golden Goldies was a project put together by Insane Clown Posse for entertainment purposes only. To add more humor to the album, each artist was given only five minutes to write their verses, and had only one take to record them, which resulted in some artists messing up their lines, and lyrics containing \"some very strange things.\" The group held only one live performance, which occurred at the record release party for Insane Clown Posse's Riddle Box.\n\nFormed in 1998, Dark Lotus consisted of Bruce and Utsler of Insane Clown Posse, Jamie Spaniolo and Paul Methric of Twiztid, and Chris Rouleau. Each member was said to \"act as a 'petal' of the lotus,\" and it was announced that there would be six members. After switching between two different \"sixth members,\" Marz, and Anybody Killa, Dark Lotus decided to keep the group to only five. On January 19, 2017 via an interview with Faygoluvers, Insane Clown Posse announced that the group disbanded.\n\nPsychopathic Rydas formed in 1999, and consists of Psychopathic Records-associated rappers performing under alternate stage names in the style of mainstream gangsta rap. The group's current lineup consists of Bruce (Bullet), Utsler (Full Clip), Methric (Foe Foe), Spaniolo (Lil' Shank), Rouleau (Cell Block), Lowery (Sawed Off) and Hutto (Yung Dirt).\n\nPsychopathic Rydas reuses the beats of popular rappers within the genre without paying to license the original songs or requesting permission from copyright owners to use the music, effectively making their albums bootlegs and resulting in the releases becoming difficult to find in some markets.\n\nFormed in 2002, Soopa Villainz consisted of Detroit rappers L.A.V.E.L. (Mr. Heart), Bruce (Mr. Diamond), Esham (Mr. Spade) and Utsler (Mr. Club). The group made appearances on Insane Clown Posse's \"\" and Esham's \"Acid Rain\" and \"Repentance\" before releasing their debut album, \"Furious\", in 2005. Following Esham and Lavel's departure from Psychopathic Records in October 2005, the group disbanded.\n\nBruce has cited the artists Esham, N.W.A, Ice Cube, Awesome Dre, Geto Boys, Gong, Pearl Jam, and Michael Jackson as influences on his music. Allmusic reviewer James Monger has referred to Bruce's style as an \"onslaught of Midwest Dirty Rap.\"\n\nBruce began wrestling alongside his friends Joseph and John Utsler. The three got involved in backyard wrestling, and created two backyard wrestling rings for their made up promotion \"Tag Team Wrestling\", later renamed \"National All-Star Wrestling\". The trio staged National All-Star Wrestling's first show, \"NAW Wrestling Extravaganza\", in front of friends and family. Among others, the show featured Bruce wrestling under the moniker Darryl \"Dropkick\" Daniels, and Joey Utsler wrestling as both Rhino, and the masked NAW World Champion White Tiger. Bruce stopped wrestling after becoming involved in gang life and forming Inner City Posse.\n\nAfter being released from jail in 1990, Bruce decided to get away from gang life and start a career in professional wrestling. Bruce's friend, Rudy Hill, got him booked in a local wrestling promotion. Rudy had lied to the promoter by telling him that Bruce had been trained at the Chris Adams Wrestling School in Texas. At the event, Bruce met Rob Van Dam and Sabu, two other first-timers with whom he became very good friends. Bruce wrestled as Corporal Darryl Daniels, wearing a U.S. Army uniform that his brother had sent him while in the Gulf War, and had his first match against \"Irish\" Mickey Doyle at Azteca Hall in Southwest Detroit. Training alongside Rob Van Dam, Bruce went on to wrestle for Al Snow, including the event which featured the debut of Van Dam. After a short run in the business, Joe realized his dislike for the backstage politics, and decided to take up a career in music, taking the name Violent J.\n\nBruce returned to wrestling in the independent circuit in 1994, under the name Hector Hatchet. He competed for Midwest Championship Wrestling throughout the next year, wrestling in between recording sessions and touring. From 1996 to 1998, Bruce was involved in a rivalry with Sewer Dwella in Insane Championship Wrestling. He continued to compete in several independent promotions for the next three years, including IWA Mid-South and NWA Mid American Wrestling.\n\nIn 2001, Bruce appeared in Xtreme Pro Wrestling at \"XPW Rapture\" to aid Utsler. After Bruce suffered a real-life injury from a sloppy clothesline, the duo left the company. On October 5, 2002, he and Utsler wrestled in Ring of Honor and defeated Oman Tortuga and Diablo Santiago. Bruce was later made a playable character in both Eidos Interactive's video games and as Violent J. To help promote the games, he competed in a series of matches for Backyard Wrestling in 2003 and 2004.\n\nIn August 1997, Bruce received a telephone call from friends Rob Van Dam and Sabu. They asked if he and Utsler could appear on Extreme Championship Wrestling (ECW)'s second pay-per-view (PPV) program, Hardcore Heaven. The duo went to Florida to discuss the ECW program's content with Van Dam, Sabu, and Paul Heyman. Heyman was pleased that Bruce and Utsler were former wrestlers, which meant that they could surprise the crowd by taking bumps. Heyman also favored the idea of using Insane Clown Posse, because it was unlikely that anyone knew of the relationship the group had with Van Dam and Sabu. Heyman presented his idea to Bruce and Utsler, who agreed to participate. Insane Clown Posse opened the ECW program by performing songs and exciting the crowd. Then Van Dam and Sabu, the main villains at the time, attacked Bruce and Utsler. The top fan favorite, The Sandman, came in and saved them by chasing away Van Dam and Sabu with his signature Singapore cane.\n\nBeing avid wrestling fans, Bruce and Utsler owned, and were fascinated by, the death match wrestling collection \"Outrageously Violent Wrestling from Japan.\" The duo decided to create a compilation of their favorite matches, recording their own sports announcing under the personas named \"Handsome\" Harley Guestella a.k.a. \"Gweedo\" (Utsler) and \"Diamond Donovan Douglas\" a.k.a. \"3D\" (Bruce). The compilation video was released nationwide under the title \"ICP's Strangle-Mania\". The video's success allowed Bruce and Utsler to host their own wrestling show, \"ICP's Strangle-Mania Live\", to a sold-out performance at St. Andrew's Hall. The main event featured Insane Clown Posse versus The Chicken Boys, who were played by two friends of Bruce and Utsler. With local wrestling booker Dan Curtis, other wrestlers such as Mad Man Pondo, 2 Tuff Tony, Corporal Robinson, King Kong Bundy, and Abdullah the Butcher were also booked on the show to wrestle in the same death match style as shown in \"ICP Strangle-Mania\".\n\nIn 1998, Insane Clown Posse were asked by the World Wrestling Federation (WWF) to perform the entrance theme for the wrestling group The Oddities. The WWF also wanted Bruce and Utsler to appear on their SummerSlam pay-per-view (PPV) program in August 1998 and rap live while The Oddities entered the ring. Once the duo arrived at the arena, they realized their wrestling dreams had come true; they had been contacted by wrestling's top company and were now set to appear on their PPV program at the company's most historic venue, Madison Square Garden. Bruce and Utsler were assigned to the locker room with Stone Cold Steve Austin and The Undertaker, who were to wrestle during the main event that night. The duo immediately felt the animosity of the locker room that had previously driven them away from wrestling. Insane Clown Posse performed and was asked to return for the live broadcast of \"Monday Night Raw\" the following night. At the broadcast, Bruce and Utsler requested for more than just a rapping role; they wanted to wrestle. Vincent McMahon favored the idea and allowed them to participate.\n\nInsane Clown Posse was put in a feud with The Headbangers. In the first wrestling match, The Headbangers were stiff, throwing real punches and kicks. In the rematch, a move was planned where The Headbangers would be flipped over by Bruce and Utsler. When the time came to flip over, however, The Headbangers refused to move, forcing Insane Clown Posse to genuinely flip them over and begin throwing punches. Realizing that the match was getting too heated, McMahon ended the feud after that match. Bruce and Utsler were put into other matches along with The Oddities. Vince Russo told Bruce and Utsler to \"make it seem like you don't know anything about wrestling, and you guys keep choking and digging into their eyes\". During this time, Bruce and Utsler had no contract with WWF. They, however, did have an agreement that the WWF would occasionally play Insane Clown Posse commercials, and in return, Bruce and Utsler would wrestle for free. Bruce and Utsler knew that airtime cost significantly more than any monetary compensation they would receive and were thus satisfied with the agreement. The duo were told they were to suddenly turn on The Oddities in their match against The Headbangers, then join them in beating up the group. They were also informed that their commercial would air the very next week, which had still not aired after three months of being involved with the WWF. The next week Insane Clown Posse and The Headbangers had a match with Steve Austin. Backstage, Austin made it clear to Bruce and Thrasher that Thrasher would receive the first Stone Cold Stunner, after which Bruce would turn around and receive the second. During the match, Austin gave Bruce the Stunner first, catching him off guard, thus having Bruce sell the move awkwardly. Although disappointed over the events during the match, Bruce and Utsler continued in hopes that McMahon would air the commercial as promised. Bruce and Utsler contacted Abbiss to inquire about the commercial and were informed that it was not aired. Given that McMahon failed to uphold his promise to air Insane Clown Posse's commercial, Abbiss recommended that Bruce and Utsler terminate their agreement with the WWF.\n\nWhile involved with the WWF, Insane Clown Posse brought Dan Curtis with them. After leaving the WWF, Curtis suggested that Insane Clown Posse start its own promotion while continuing with its music. He came to Bruce's house each night to discuss ideas about the promotion. Curtis convinced Bruce to coordinate another \"Strangle-Mania Live\" show, to be followed by an eighty-city \"Hellfire Wrestling\" tour. Curtis booked the talent and wrote the scripts. \"Strangle-Mania Live\" sold out the Majestic Theater in Detroit. Two days after the show, Curtis was found dead in his apartment, due to a sudden diabetic problem. The \"Hellfire Wrestling\" tour was subsequently canceled.\n\nBruce then went on to wrestle a long stint in World Championship Wrestling with Shaggy 2 Dope. The duo formed two stables. The first stable, \"The Dead Pool\", consisted of Insane Clown Posse, Vampiro, and Raven; the second consisted of Insane Clown Posse, Vampiro, Great Muta, and Kiss Demon, known as \"The Dark Carnival\".\n\nOn August 9, 1999, Insane Clown Posse made their WCW debut on Monday Nitro in a six-man tag team match. Insane Clown Posse and Vampiro defeated Lash LeRoux, Norman Smiley, and Prince Iaukea. At Road Wild 1999, Rey Mysterio, Jr., Billy Kidman, and Eddie Guerrero defeated Vampiro and Insane Clown Posse. Insane Clown Posse continued to wrestle on Monday Nitro, defeating Public Enemy one week, and losing to Konnan and Rey Mysterio, Jr. another. At Fall Brawl 1999, the tag team of Rey Mysterio, Eddie Guerrero, and Billy Kidman again defeated Vampiro and Insane Clown Posse. On September 13, Insane Clown Posse defeated Lenny Lane and Lodi.\n\nOn the August 23, 2000 episode of WCW Thunder, Great Muta, Vampiro, and Insane Clown Posse beat Tank Abbott and 3 Count. Five days later, on Monday Nitro, Insane Clown Posse and Vampiro defeated 3 Count, and the following week, Rey Mysterio, Jr. and Juventud Guerrera beat Insane Clown Posse. On September 25, Mike Awesome defeated Insane Clown Posse in a Handicap Hardcore match.\n\nOn December 19, 1999, Bruce and Utsler created their own wrestling promotion, \"Juggalo Championshit Wrestling\" (now known as Juggalo Championship Wrestling). That night, the duo defeated the team of two Doink the Clowns to become the first ever JCW Tag Team Champions. The event was taped and released as \"JCW, Volume 1\". Commentary was provided by Bruce and Utsler under their \"3D\" and \"Gweedo\" announcing personas. In 2000, Insane Clown Posse was involved in a rivalry with The Rainbow Coalition (Big Flam, Bob, and Neil). That April, the duo teamed with Vampiro to defeat The Rainbow Coalition. They defeated the Coalition again when they teamed with Evil Dead later that year, and the match that was featured on \"JCW, Volume 2\".\n\nIn 2003, Insane Clown Posse defended, and retained, their JCW Tag Team Championships against Kid Cock (a parody of Kid Rock) and Feminem (a parody of Eminem). The match was featured on \"JCW, Volume 3\". At the 2006 Gathering of the Juggalos, Bruce, Nosawa, and Vampiro lost to Mad Man Pondo and The Headhunters, but defeated Pondo and Powers of Pain the next day. Bruce continued to wrestle for JCW, which could only be seen at live events until the 2007 start of \"JCW SlamTV!\".\n\nOn January 21, 2004, Bruce appeared alongside Utsler on an episode of the weekly NWA Total Nonstop Action PPV. The duo were shown partying in the crowd alongside the Juggalos in attendance. In the main event of the night, which featured Jeff Jarrett going against El Leon, Jarrett and El Leon were fighting in the crowd when Insane Clown Posse sprayed Faygo in Jarrett's eyes. The following week, Insane Clown Posse were interviewed in the ring by Mike Tenay. The duo explained that they were fans of TNA, and that they wanted to be a part of the promotion themselves. As they started making kayfabe negative remarks toward Jarrett, Glenn Gilberti and David Young interrupted. When Gilberti tried to convince the duo to apologize to Jarrett, Insane Clown Posse chased Gilbertti and Young out of the ring before challenging the team to a match for the next week.\n\nOn February 4, Insane Clown Posse defeated Glen Gilbertti and David Young. Later that night, Scott Hudson interviewed Insane Clown Posse, and the duo announced that they would face whoever Jeff Jarrett threw at them next in a \"Juggalo Street Fight\". Insane Clown Posse won against the team of Glen Gilbertti and Kid Kash on February 18. Two weeks later, Insane Clown Posse announced that they would take part in a \"Dark Carnival match\" the next week against Glen Gilbertti and any partner he chooses. The following week, Insane Clown Posse and 2 Tuff Tony took on Glen Gilbertti, Kid Kash, and David Young. \"The Alpha Male\" Monty Brown made his TNA return, and cost Insane Clown Posse and 2 Tuff Tony the match. During their stint in TNA, Insane Clown Posse brought the company its largest paying crowds in history. After the duo left, they remained close with the company.\n\nOn March 17, 2006, Insane Clown Posse hosted and booked TNA's first ever house show, which took place in Detroit, Michigan. The duo defeated Team Canada members Eric Young and Petey Williams.\n\nOn December 12, 2004, Bruce and Utsler competed in the event A Night of Appreciation for Sabu, teaming with the Rude Boy to defeat the team of Corporal Robinson, Zach Gowen, and Breyer Wellington. Utsler received surgery on his neck the following year, forcing Bruce to compete as a singles competitor and as a member of the Hatchet Boys, alongside Corporal Robinson and 2 Tuff Tony.\n\nIn late 2006, Bruce was involved in a rivalry with Pro Wrestling Unplugged. On November 18, he turned on Corporal Robinson, the then JCW Heavyweight Champion and PWU Hardcore Champion, provoking a series of matches between JCW and PWU. At Pro Wrestling Unplugged's \"PWU vs JCW\", Team PWU (The Backseat Boyz and Corporal Robinson) defeated Team JCW (2 Tuff Tony, Violent J, and Dyson Pryce). The following month, Team PWU (Trent Acid, Corporal Robinson, Johnny Kashmere, Pete Hunter, and Gary Wolfe) took on Team JCW (Nosawa, 2 Tuff Tony, Violent J, Mad Man Pondo, and Raven) in a War Games match. Raven, however, attacked both teams, provoking all members of Team PWU and Team JCW to join forces and attack Raven.\n\nBruce continues to appear as Violent J at various promotions in the independent circuit.\n\nIn 2007, JCW launched \"SlamTV!\". With it came the first broadcast of JCW since the three initial DVDs. Bruce returned to commentary as Diamond Donovan Douglas, and Utsler returned as \"Handsome\" Harley Guestella. 3D and Gweedo announced in an episode of SlamTV! that Insane Clown Posse had been stripped of the JCW Tag Team Championships due to them not defending the title. At the first annual Bloodymania, JCW's premier wrestling event, Insane Clown Posse teamed with Sabu to defeat Trent Acid and The Young Alter Boys w/ Annie Social the Nun.\n\nLater that night, Corporal Robinson, Scott Hall, and Violent J formed the Juggalo World Order (JWO). Shaggy 2 Dope, Nosawa, Kevin Nash, 2 Tuff Tony, and Sid Vicious later joined the group. On January 26, 2008, Bruce and Tony won the JCW Tag Team Championship. However, their victory was declared void, stricken from the record, and the title was vacated. On November 9, 2008, the Juggalo World Order (Scott Hall, Shaggy 2 Dope, Violent J, 2 Tuff Tony, and Corporal Robinson) \"invaded\" Total Nonstop Action Wrestling's Turning Point PPV by purchasing front row tickets to the event. They proceeded to promote their faction by flashing their JWO jerseys, which each member had on, before being removed from the building.\n\nAt Bloodymania III, Juggalo World Order (Corporal Robinson, Scott Hall, Shaggy 2 Dope, Violent J, and Sid Vicious) defeated Trent Acid and the Alter Boys (Tim, Tom, Terry, and Todd). On February 10, 2011, Bruce took the on-screen role of commissioner of the company. During their GOTJ seminar on July 24, 2015 Violent J said he is hoping to wrestle again by next year but he wants to \"get in a better space\".\n\nBruce starred in the Psychopathic Records crime comedy \"Big Money Hustlas\", as Big Baby Sweets, in 2000. A sequel, \"Big Money Rustlas\" followed in 2010, in which Bruce portrayed Big Baby Sweets' ancestor, Big Baby Chips. In 2001, Bruce was offered a role in the musical \"Prison Song\", in which he was asked to play a bigoted prison guard. The producers offered Bruce the role on the basis of his appearances on \"The Howard Stern Show\", and told him that they wanted \"a big white dude with urban slang to his voice\", and on the basis of his radio appearances, thought that Bruce was perfect for the role. While Bruce had interest in acting outside of Psychopathic Records projects, as well as being willing to act without face paint, he did not want to play a racist, and turned the role down. In preparation for \"Big Money Rustlas\", Bruce starred in the film \"Death Racers\" in 2008. According to Bruce, \"We just did it for fun. We knew it was gonna be basically garbage.\"\n\nJoe Bruce has a younger sister, and an older brother Jumpsteady who has been the \"Psychopathic Records Don\" from 1992 until he left in 2005 to become a paramedic, and regained the position when he returned in 2012. Jumpsteady has released 2 albums on Psychopathic Records (The Chaos Theory and Master of the Flying Guillotine). He is the uncle to Jumpsteady's daughter Samantha. Bruce has two children with his wife Michelle \"Sugar Slam\" Rapp; a son named Joseph \"JJ\" Bruce II, born in 2005, and a daughter named Ruby Bruce, born in 2006. On Father's Day June 16, 2013 Bruce married Michelle \"Sugar Slam\" Rapp On the same day he released a single titled \"\"Fuck My Dad (Richard Bruce)\"\". In February 2016 it was announced in the Hatchet Herald that he and Sugar Slam have decided to mutually separate, but will always remain good friends and will always put the needs of the other before their own. Bruce has recorded tracks specifically for his children entitled \"Song 4 Son\" for his son and \"Ruby Song\" for his daughter. In 2016 it was rumored that J and new artist Blahzay Roze were dating, which was found out to be true, but broke up later that year. On June 17, 2017 he released the music video for the \"2013 Father's Day Single\" titled \"\"Fuck My Dad (Richard Bruce)\"\" and featured appearances from Lyte, Shaggy 2 Dope, Jumpsteady, their younger sister Denise, and Violent J's kids Ruby and JJ.\n\nIn support of his daughter's interest in furry fandom, he declared himself \"a juggalo furry\" and attended Midwest Furfest with her in December 2018. During the convention, he sometimes dressed in a fursuit with sewn-in juggalo makeup made by \"DraconicKnight\".\n\nBruce, along with his bandmate Joseph Utsler, has had numerous run-ins with the law, having been arrested multiple times starting at the age of seventeen:\n\nBruce was jailed for ninety days in 1989–1990 for death threats, robbery, and violating probation; this experience convinced him to reduce his involvement in gang life.\n\nOn November 16, 1997, Bruce was arrested on an aggravated battery charge after allegedly striking an audience member thirty times with his microphone at a concert in Albuquerque, New Mexico. Bruce was held for four hours before being released on US$5,000 bail.\n\nAfter a show in Indianapolis, Insane Clown Posse's tour bus stopped at a Waffle House in Greenfield, Indiana. When a customer began to harass Spaniolo and Bruce, a fight broke out between the customer and all of the bands' members. Months later on June 4, 1998, Bruce and Utsler pleaded guilty to misdemeanor disorderly conduct charges (reduced from battery) in an Indiana court and were fined US$200 each. Members of Twiztid, Myzery, and Psycho Realm were charged with battery.\n\nOn June 15, 2001, Bruce was arrested in Columbia, Missouri for an outstanding warrant in St. Louis stemming from an incident in February 2001. That incident involved Insane Clown Posse allegedly attacking employees of a St. Louis radio station over disparaging remarks that a disc jockey made on the air. The police used several squad cars to detain Bruce, Utsler, and two associates a few miles from a venue where the group had completed a concert. Bruce was transferred to St. Louis the following day and released on bail without charge on June 18. On February 6, 2002, Bruce plead guilty to two counts of misdemeanor assault in the second degree and was sentenced to 12 months' unsupervised probation.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1927623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1927623", "title": "Shaggy 2 Dope", "text": "Shaggy 2 Dope\n\nJoseph William Utsler, known by his stage name Shaggy 2 Dope (born October 14, 1974), is an American rapper, record producer, DJ, and professional wrestler. He is part of the hip hop duo Insane Clown Posse. He is the co-founder of the record label Psychopathic Records, with fellow Insane Clown Posse rapper Violent J (Joseph Bruce) and their former manager, Alex Abbiss. Along with Bruce, Utsler is the co-founder of the professional wrestling promotion Juggalo Championship Wrestling, where he currently acts as color commentator.\n\nIn 1989, Joseph Utsler, as Kangol Joe, Joseph Bruce, as Jagged Joe, and John Utsler, as Master J, formed the group JJ Boys and released the single titled \"Party at the Top of the Hill\" under the name of JJ Boys, but the group did not pursue a serious career in music. The following year, the trio reemerged as Inner City Posse, using the stage names Violent J, 2 Dope, and John Kickjazz, and began performing at local night clubs. After releasing several albums, the group hired record store owner Alex Abbiss as their manager, who established the Psychopathic Records record label with the group in 1991. Later that year the group released the self-produced EP titled \"Dog Beats\".\n\nIn late 1991, Inner City Posse changed their style, look, and name. Joseph Bruce recalled a dream of a clown running around in Delray, which became the inspiration for the group's new name: Insane Clown Posse. Upon returning home that night, Bruce had a dream in which spirits in a traveling carnival appeared to him—an image that would become the basis for the Dark Carnival mythology detailed in the group's Joker's Cards series. These stories each offer a specific lesson designed to change the \"evil ways\" of listeners before \"the end consumes us all.\" Insane Clown Posse has a dedicated following, often referred to by the group as Juggalos and Juggalettes.\n\nJohn Utsler left the group in 1992, and Insane Clown Posse has since been composed of Joseph Bruce and Joseph Utsler, who perform under the respective personas of the murderous, wicked clowns Violent J and Shaggy 2 Dope. The duo perform a style of hardcore hip hop known as \"horrorcore\", and is known for its dark, violent lyrics and elaborate live performances. Insane Clown Posse has earned two platinum and five gold albums. According to Nielsen SoundScan, the entire catalog of the group has sold 6.5 million units in the United States and Canada as of April 2007.\n\nIn 1994, Utsler released his first solo album, \"Fuck Off!\", containing only four tracks. His second planned solo album \"Shaggs The Clown\", was never released due to sampling issues. After almost 12 years of promotion, Utsler released his second solo album, \"F.T.F.O.\" (Fuck The Fuck Off!), in 2006. During ICP's 2013 GOTJ seminar Shaggy and J stated that they were wanting to do more solo albums. Shaggy said he was wanting to do another couple albums, like Fuck Off! EP and F.T.F.O. On July 24, 2015 during ICP's GOTJ seminar Shaggy said that he has been wanting to do another album, and plans on doing it, and will go on tour to support and promote the album shortly after it is released. In a flyer released in early/mid December 2015 it was announced that his upcoming album is titled \"F.T.F.O.M.F.\" (Fuck The Fuck Off Mother Fucker), set for a 2016 release date. In an early April 2016 Faygoluvers interview with Violent J, J stated that Shaggy has been writing and recording his upcoming solo album with Otis/Young Wicked producing, and hasn't asked J for help. During ICP's 2016 GOTJ seminar it was announced that Shaggy 2 Dope's upcoming album \"F.T.F.O.M.F.\" will now be released in 2017. Announced on October 4, 2016 Shaggy will be doing a solo set on Day 1 of the 2017 Juggalo Day Show. After the falling out with Young Wicked, DJ Clay produced the album from scratch and the album was released on May 26, 2017 and reached #72 on the Billboard 200, #1 on the Independent chart, and #36 on the Top Album Sales. In early December 2018 it was announced that Violent J and Shaggy were going to headline their own winter tours and would wind up together in New Orleans for Juggalo Day 2019. The flyer for Shaggy 2 Dope's tour said that a new solo EP would be available to VIP's. A couple of weeks later it was announced the name of the album is \"Gloomy Sunday EP\".\n\nGolden Goldies was a comical group whose lyrics focused solely on gold. The group consisted of Psychopathic Record's employees and friends; Violent J (Golden Jelly), Shaggy 2 Dope (Gold D), Robert Bruce (Golden Gram), Billy Bill (Gold Double B), Alex Abbiss (Gold Rocks), Mike E. Clark (Gold Digger), Rich Murrell (Golden Warrior), Frank G (Golden Frank), Keith (Gold Teeth), Josh (Rold Gold), Kelly Eubanks (Gold Spud), Fink the East Side G (Golden Toby), and Matt Mackalantie (Gold Spakalantie). Their only LP, \"Gimme Them Fuckin' Nuggets Bitch, Or I'll Punch Your Fuckin' Face\", was recorded in 1995 in a span of one week, and was not publicly released. Golden Goldies was a project put together by Insane Clown Posse for entertainment purposes only. To add more humor to the album, each artist was given only five minutes to write their verses, and had only one take to record them, which resulted in some artists messing up their lines, and lyrics containing \"some very strange things.\" The group held only one live performance, which occurred at the record release party for Insane Clown Posse's Riddle Box.\n\nFormed in 1998, Dark Lotus consisted of Bruce and Utsler of Insane Clown Posse, Jamie Spaniolo and Paul Methric of Twiztid, and Blaze Ya Dead Homie. Each member was said to \"act as a 'petal' of the lotus,\" and it was announced that there would be six members. After switching between two different \"sixth members,\" Marz and Anybody Killa, Dark Lotus decided to keep the group to only five. On January 19, 2017 via an interview with faygoluvers.net, Insane Clown Posse announced that the group disbanded.\n\nPsychopathic Rydas formed in 1999, and consists of Psychopathic Records-associated rappers performing under alternate stage names in the style of mainstream gangsta rap. The group's current lineup consists of Bruce (Bullet), Utsler (Full Clip), Methric (Foe Foe), Spaniolo (Lil' Shank), Rouleau (Cell Block) and David Hutto (Yung Dirt).\n\nPsychopathic Rydas reuses the beats of popular rappers within the genre without paying to license the original songs or requesting permission from copyright owners to use the music, effectively making their albums bootlegs and resulting in the releases becoming difficult to find in some markets.\n\nFormed in 2002, Soopa Villainz consisted of Lavel (Mr. Heart), Bruce (Mr. Diamond), Esham (Mr. Spade) and Utsler (Mr. Club). The group made appearances on Insane Clown Posse's \"\" and Esham's \"Acid Rain\" and \"Repentance\" before releasing their debut album, \"Furious\", in 2005. Following Esham and Lavel's departure from Psychopathic Records in October 2005, the group disbanded.\n\nUtsler's music is influenced by old school hip hop, new school hip hop, and gangsta rap, including the artists Run–D.M.C., Ice-T, Rodney O & Joe Cooley, Afrika Bambaataa, Esham, N.W.A, Ice Cube, Awesome Dre, and Geto Boys. Allmusic reviewer David Jeffries has praised Utsler, writing that \"Shaggy 2 Dope has always seemed to be 75 percent of [Insane Clown Posse]'s talent\".\n\nShaggy began wrestling alongside his brother John and his friend Violent J. The three got involved in backyard wrestling, and created two backyard wrestling rings for their made up promotion \"Tag Team Wrestling\", later renamed \"National All-Star Wrestling\". The trio staged National All-Star Wrestling's first show, \"NAW Wrestling Extravaganza\", in front of friends and family. Among others, the show featured Bruce wrestling under the moniker Darryl \"Dropkick\" Daniels, and Joey Utsler wrestling as both Rhino, and the masked NAW World Champion White Tiger. Utsler stopped wrestling after becoming involved in gang life and forming Inner City Posse.\n\nIn 1990, Violent J began a career in professional wrestling. Bruce brought Joey Utlser along with him backstage. At their first event, Bruce and Utsler met Rob Van Dam and Sabu, two other first-timers with whom they became very good friends. Bruce wrestled as Corporal Darryl Daniels, and Utsler occasionally managed him. After a short run in the business, both Bruce and Utsler realized their dislike for the backstage politics, and decided to take up a career in music, taking the names of Violent J and Shaggy 2 Dope.\n\nShaggy returned to wrestling in the independent circuit in 1996, under the name Sewer Dwella. From 1996 to 1998, Utsler was involved in a rivalry with Hector Hatchet in Insane Championship Wrestling. He continued to compete in several independent promotions for the next two years, including Future Wrestling Alliance and NWA Mid American Wrestling.\n\nUtsler appeared in Xtreme Pro Wrestling at 2001's \"XPW Redemption\", where he and Vampiro defeated Damián 666 and Halloween. The following week, after Violent J suffered a real-life injury from a sloppy clothesline, Utsler and Bruce left the company. On October 5, 2002, he and Bruce wrestled in Ring of Honor and defeated Oman Tortuga and Diablo Santiago. Utsler was later made a playable character in both Eidos Interactive's video games and as Shaggy 2 Dope. To help promote the games, he competed in a series of matches for Backyard Wrestling in 2003 and 2004.\n\nIn August 1997, Bruce received a telephone call from friends Rob Van Dam and Sabu. They asked if he and Utsler could appear on Extreme Championship Wrestling (ECW)'s second pay-per-view (PPV) program, Hardcore Heaven. The duo went to Florida to discuss the ECW program's content with Van Dam, Sabu, and Paul Heyman. Heyman was pleased that Bruce and Utsler were former wrestlers, which meant that they could surprise the crowd by taking bumps. Heyman also favored the idea of using Insane Clown Posse, because it was unlikely that anyone knew of the relationship the group had with Van Dam and Sabu. Heyman presented his idea to Bruce and Utsler, who agreed to participate. Insane Clown Posse opened the ECW program by performing songs and exciting the crowd. Then Van Dam and Sabu, the main villains at the time, attacked Bruce and Utsler. The top fan favorite, The Sandman, came in and saved them by chasing away Van Dam and Sabu with his signature Singapore cane.\n\nBeing avid wrestling fans, Bruce and Utsler owned, and were fascinated by, the death match wrestling collection \"Outrageously Violent Wrestling from Japan.\" The duo decided to create a compilation of their favorite matches, recording their own sports announcing under the personas named \"Handsome\" Harley Guestella a.k.a. \"Gweedo\" (Utsler) and Diamond Donovan Douglas a.k.a. \"3D\" (Bruce). The compilation video was released nationwide under the title \"ICP's Strangle-Mania\". The video's success allowed Bruce and Utsler to host their own wrestling show, \"ICP's Strangle-Mania Live\", to a sold-out performance at St. Andrew's Hall. The main event featured Insane Clown Posse versus The Chicken Boys, who were played by two friends of Bruce and Utsler. With local wrestling booker Dan Curtis, other wrestlers such as Mad Man Pondo, 2 Tuff Tony, Corporal Robinson, King Kong Bundy, and Abdullah the Butcher were also booked on the show to wrestle in the same death match style as shown in \"ICP Strangle-Mania\".\n\nIn 1998, Insane Clown Posse were asked by the World Wrestling Federation (WWF) to perform the entrance theme for the wrestling group The Oddities. The WWF also wanted Bruce and Utsler to appear on their SummerSlam pay-per-view (PPV) program in August 1998 and rap live while The Oddities entered the ring. Once the duo arrived at the arena, they realized their wrestling dreams had come true; they had been contacted by wrestling's top company and were now set to appear on their PPV program at the company's most historic venue, Madison Square Garden. Bruce and Utsler were assigned to the locker room with Stone Cold Steve Austin and The Undertaker, who were to wrestle during the main event that night. The duo immediately felt the animosity of the locker room that had previously driven them away from wrestling. Insane Clown Posse performed and was asked to return for the live broadcast of \"Monday Night Raw\" the following night. At the broadcast, Bruce and Utsler requested for more than just a rapping role; they wanted to wrestle. McMahon favored the idea and allowed them to participate.\n\nInsane Clown Posse was put in a feud with The Headbangers. In the first wrestling match, The Headbangers were stiff, throwing real punches and kicks. In the rematch, a move was planned where The Headbangers would be flipped over by Bruce and Utsler. When the time came to flip over, however, The Headbangers refused to move, forcing Insane Clown Posse to genuinely flip them over and begin throwing punches. Realizing that the match was getting too heated, McMahon ended the feud after that match. Bruce and Utsler were put into other matches along with The Oddities. Vince Russo told Bruce and Utsler to \"make it seem like you don't know anything about wrestling, and you guys keep choking and digging into their eyes\".\n\nDuring this time, Bruce and Utsler had no contract with WWF. They, however, did have an agreement that the WWF would occasionally play Insane Clown Posse commercials, and in return, Bruce and Utsler would wrestle for free. Bruce and Utsler knew that airtime cost significantly more than any monetary compensation they would receive and were thus satisfied with the agreement. The duo were told they were to suddenly turn on The Oddities in their match against The Headbangers, then join them in beating up the group. They were also informed that their commercial would air the very next week, which had still not aired after three months of being involved with the WWF. The next week Insane Clown Posse and The Headbangers had a match with Steve Austin. After the match, Bruce and Utsler contacted Abbiss to inquire about the commercial and were informed that it was not aired. Given that McMahon failed to uphold his promise to air Insane Clown Posse's commercial, Abbiss recommended that Bruce and Utsler terminate their agreement with the WWF.\n\nWhile involved with the WWF, Insane Clown Posse brought Dan Curtis with them. After leaving the WWF, Curtis suggested that Insane Clown Posse start its own promotion while continuing with its music. He convinced the duo to coordinate another \"Strangle-Mania Live\" show, to be followed by an eighty-city \"Hellfire Wrestling\" tour. Curtis booked the talent and wrote the scripts. \"Strangle-Mania Live\" sold out the Majestic Theater in Detroit. Two days after the show, Curtis was found dead in his apartment, due to a sudden diabetic problem. The \"Hellfire Wrestling\" tour was subsequently canceled.\n\nUtsler then went on to wrestle a long stint in World Championship Wrestling with Violent J. The duo formed two stables. The first stable, \"The Dead Pool\", consisted of Insane Clown Posse, Vampiro, and Raven; the second consisted of Insane Clown Posse, Vampiro, Great Muta, and Kiss Demon, known as \"The Dark Carnival\".\n\nOn August 9, 1999, Insane Clown Posse made their WCW debut on Monday Nitro in a six-man tag team match. Insane Clown Posse and Vampiro defeated Lash LeRoux, Norman Smiley, and Prince Iaukea. At Road Wild 1999, Rey Mysterio, Jr., Billy Kidman, and Eddie Guerrero defeated Vampiro and Insane Clown Posse. Insane Clown Posse continued to wrestle on Monday Nitro, defeating Public Enemy one week, and losing to Konnan and Rey Mysterio, Jr. another. At Fall Brawl 1999, the tag team of Rey Mysterio, Eddie Guerrero, and Billy Kidman again defeated Vampiro and Insane Clown Posse. On September 13, Insane Clown Posse defeated Lenny Lane and Lodi.\n\nOn the August 23, 2000 episode of WCW Thunder, Great Muta, Vampiro, and Insane Clown Posse beat Tank Abbott and 3 Count. Five days later, on Monday Nitro, Insane Clown Posse and Vampiro defeated 3 Count, and the following week, Rey Mysterio, Jr. and Juventud Guerrera beat Insane Clown Posse. On September 25, Mike Awesome defeated Insane Clown Posse in a Handicap Hardcore match. The ending showed Awesome performing his signature \"Awesome Bomb\" on 2 Dope on top a bus. Shaggy was stunned and accidentally fell off the top of the bus.\n\nOn December 19, 1999, Bruce and Utsler created their own wrestling promotion, \"Juggalo Championshit Wrestling\" (now known as Juggalo Championship Wrestling). That night, the duo defeated the team of two Doink the Clowns to become the first ever JCW Tag Team Champions. The event was taped and released as \"JCW, Volume 1\". Commentary was provided by Bruce and Utsler under their \"3D\" and \"Gweedo\" announcing personas. In 2000, Insane Clown Posse was involved in a rivalry with The Rainbow Coalition (Big Flam, Bob, and Neil). That April, the duo teamed with Vampiro to defeat The Rainbow Coalition. Insane Clown Posse defeated the Coalition again when they teamed with Evil Dead, and the match that was featured on \"JCW, Volume 2\".\n\nLater that April, Utsler fell off the top of a Steel Cage and broke his nose and cheekbone, as well as injuring his neck. As a result, his wrestling appearances were limited, and he received neck surgery four years later. In 2003, Insane Clown Posse defended, and retained, their JCW Tag Team Championships against Kid Cock (a parody of Kid Rock) and Feminem (a parody of Eminem). The match was featured on \"JCW, Volume 3\". Utsler continued to wrestle for JCW, which could only be seen at live events until the 2007 start of \"JCW SlamTV!\".\n\nOn January 21, 2004, Utsler appeared alongside Bruce on an episode of the weekly NWA Total Nonstop Action PPV. The duo were shown partying in the crowd alongside the Juggalos in attendance. In the main event of the night, which featured Jeff Jarrett going against El Leon, Jarrett and El Leon were fighting in the crowd when Insane Clown Posse sprayed Faygo in Jarrett's eyes. The following week, Insane Clown Posse were interviewed in the ring by Mike Tenay. The duo explained that they were fans of TNA, and that they wanted to be a part of the promotion themselves. As they started making kayfabe negative remarks toward Jeff Jarrett, Glenn Gilberti and David Young interrupted. When Gilberti tried to convince the duo to apologize to Jarrett, Insane Clown Posse chased Gilbertti and Young out of the ring before challenging the team to a match for the next week.\n\nOn February 4, Insane Clown Posse defeated Glen Gilbertti and David Young. Later that night, Scott Hudson interviewed Insane Clown Posse, and the duo announced that they would face whoever Jeff Jarrett threw at them next in a \"Juggalo Street Fight\". Insane Clown Posse won against the team of Glen Gilbertti and Kid Kash on February 18. Two weeks later, Insane Clown Posse announced that they would take part in a \"Dark Carnival Match\" the next week against Glen Gilbertti and any partner he chooses. The following week, Insane Clown Posse and 2 Tuff Tony took on Glen Gilbertti, Kid Kash, and David Young. \"The Alpha Male\" Monty Brown made his TNA return, and cost Insane Clown Posse and 2 Tuff Tony the match. During their stint in TNA, Insane Clown Posse brought the company its largest paying crowds in history. After the duo left, they remained close with the company.\n\nOn March 17, 2006, Insane Clown Posse hosted and booked TNA's first ever house show, which took place in Detroit, Michigan. The duo defeated Team Canada members Eric Young and Petey Williams.\n\nOn December 12, 2004, Utsler and Bruce competed in the event A Night of Appreciation for Sabu, teaming with the Rude Boy to defeat the team of Corporal Robinson, Zach Gowen, and Breyer Wellington. Utsler received surgery on his neck the following year, leaving him unable to wrestle for two years. At Pro Wrestling Unplugged's 2006 event \"Cuffed & Caged: Last Man Standing,\" Utsler managed Team JCW (Nosawa, 2 Tuff Tony, Violent J, Mad Man Pondo, and Raven) in a War Games match against Team PWU (Trent Acid, Corporal Robinson, Johnny Kashmere, Pete Hunter, and Gary Wolfe) with manager Tod Gordon.\n\nSince fully recovering from his neck surgery in 2007, Utsler has continued to appear as Shaggy 2 Dope at various promotions in the independent circuit.\n\nIn 2007, JCW launched \"SlamTV!\". With it came the first broadcast of JCW since the three initial DVDs. Utsler returned as \"Handsome\" Harley Guestella, and Bruce returned to commentary as Diamond Donovan Douglas. 3D and Gweedo announced in an episode of SlamTV! that Insane Clown Posse had been stripped of the JCW Tag Team Championships because they had not defended the title due to 2 Dope's injuries. Utsler made his in-ring return at the first annual Bloodymania, JCW's premier wrestling event, where Insane Clown Posse teamed with Sabu to defeat Trent Acid and The Young Alter Boys w/ Annie Social the Nun.\n\nAt the 2008 Hallowicked After-Party, Utsler joined the group Juggalo World Order. On November 9, the Juggalo World Order (Scott Hall, Shaggy 2 Dope, Violent J, 2 Tuff Tony, and Corporal Robinson) \"invaded\" Total Nonstop Action Wrestling's Turning Point PPV by purchasing front row tickets to the event. They proceeded to promote their faction by flashing their JWO jerseys, which each member had on, before being removed from the building.\n\nAt Bloodymania III, Juggalo World Order (Corporal Robinson, Scott Hall, Shaggy 2 Dope, Violent J, and Sid Vicious) defeated Trent Acid and the Alter Boys (Tim, Tom, Terry, and Todd). In 2010, Utsler (as Shaggy 2 Dope) became the full-time color commentator of Juggalo Championship Wrestling with his broadcast partner Kevin Gill.\n\nIn October 6, 2018, when Limp Bizkit performed at the Rock Allegiance festival in Camden, New Jersey, Shaggy 2 Dope attempted to dropkick Fred Durst when the band was just finishing up their cover of George Michael's \"Faith\" and was dragged offstage by security.\n\n\nUtsler is a native of Wayne, Michigan. He is of half Polish, and he told Howard Stern that he is half Cherokee. He does not celebrate Thanksgiving. He is the middle of three brothers, John and Mike. Older brother John Utsler, formerly known as John Kickjazz, was a part of Inner City Posse and was also briefly a member of Insane Clown Posse. Younger brother Mike performs as Tre Pound in the hip hop group Chop Shop. On the morning of November 20, 2015 John Utsler was found dead in a group home in Michigan.\n\nLike his bandmate Violent J, Utsler has had numerous run-ins with the law, having been arrested multiple times since he was a teenager. He has suffered from depression and anxiety throughout his career. Utsler has been admitted to multiple drug rehabilitation centers due to alcoholism and pill addiction. On the September 1, 2009 edition of The Howard Stern Show, he stated that he had recently quit using pills and drinking because he was close to getting cirrhosis of the liver.\n\nJoey Utsler has five children, twin boys (Cyrus and Isaac, b. July 24, 1996) and a girl (Mahala b. 2002) from a previous relationship with his former girlfriend Jamesa. He and his wife Renee have a son, Ronan, born in 2015 and a daughter, Leonna, born in 2016.\n\nCyrus and Isaac Utsler joined the Army after graduating high school in 2014. They joined the Army and are stationed in Fort Riley, Kansas.\n\nUtsler designed the Psychopathic Records logo, called the Hatchetman, as well as drawing numerous Insane Clown Posse album covers.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1927624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1927624", "title": "Jarosław Bogoria of Skotniki", "text": "Jarosław Bogoria of Skotniki\n\nJarosław Bogoria of Skotniki () (ca. 1276 – 17 September 1376) was a Polish nobleman and bishop, member of the Bogoriowie family of the Bogorya coat of arms.\n\nHe was a son of Piotr of Bogoria and Skotniki. Jaroslaw studied law and theology at the University of Bologna, becoming provost from 1316 to 1322. Returning home, he became canon of Kraków and chancellor of the bishop of Kraków Nankier. In 1326 he became archdeacon of Kraków and in 1334 canon of Kuyavia and Gniezno. From 1331 until 1337 he was chancellor of Kuyavia. On 8 July 1342 in Avignon, Pope Clement VI appointed him archbishop of Gniezno. In 1374 he resigned for blindness and went to a monastery. He died on 17 September 1376 at Kalisz.\n"}
{"id": "1927629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1927629", "title": "Piotr of Bogoria and Skotnik", "text": "Piotr of Bogoria and Skotnik\n\nPiotr of Bogoria and Skotnik () (died 1283) was a Polish nobleman (\"szlachcic\") member of the Bogoriowie family of the Bogorya coat of arms.\n\nPiotr was castellan of Wiślica about 1268 and voivode of the Sandomierz Voivodeship about 1280.\n\nChildren:\n"}
{"id": "1927630", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1927630", "title": "Orville Carlisle", "text": "Orville Carlisle\n\nOrville H. Carlisle (July 5, 1917 – August 1, 1988), a shoe salesman in Norfolk, Nebraska invented the hobby that would become known as model rocketry.\n\nIn 1953, Orville and his brother Robert were joint owners of a shoe store on 420 Norfolk Ave. Robert, a model aviation enthusiast, demonstrated his \"U-control\" planes for groups in parks and schools in and around Norfolk, to demonstrate advances in aeronautical technology since World War II. He wanted a model missile for use in his demonstrations, to illustrate rocketry technology (which would, in a few years, lead to the beginning of the Space Age). He called on Orville, whose hobby was pyrotechnics, to build him a rocket.\n\nBy 1954, Orville had developed his first rocket, the Rock-A-Chute Mark I. This model had an airframe of paper with balsa fins mounted on long booms behind the body. Propulsion was achieved by a handmade solid rocket motor burning DuPont fffG black powder propellant. The engine was used once and then discarded. The same technology goes into model rocket engines produced currently.\n\nCarlisle's second rocket, the Rock-A-Chute Mark II had a more streamlined design and is still a practical model rocket today. In 1958, he was awarded for his design of a \"toy rocket\". G. Harry Stine, in an article published posthumously in \"Sport Rocketry\" magazine, wrote that the U.S. Patent Office should not have awarded Carlisle the patent because the design merely represented a reasonable extension of existing fireworks technology.\n\nPrior to the launch of Sputnik in 1957, Carlisle read an article in the February 1957 issue of \"Popular Mechanics\" by G. Harry Stine, then an engineer working at White Sands Missile Range. The article remarked on the danger that individuals (mostly teenage boys), inspired by the birth of the Space Age, might experiment with rockets of their own design and end up seriously hurting themselves or even dying. Carlisle realized that he had a solution to this problem with his \"Rock-A-Chute\" models and engines, a few of which he boxed up and shipped to Stine.\n\nStine saw the potential in Carlisle's invention as a safe hobby, and together they formed the first model rocket company, Model Missiles, Inc., in Denver, Colorado. Carlisle offered two kits from his new company: the Rock-A-Chute Mark II and a scale model of the Aerobee sounding rocket. Soon, the demand for model rocket kits and engines exceeded the production capabilities, and Carlisle sought an external supplier for rocket engines. Vernon Estes, whose family fireworks company was listed first in the Denver phone book, designed a machine capable of producing rocket engines every 5.5 seconds. Unwise business decisions eventually forced Model Missiles, Inc. out of business, and Estes took over production with his own company, Estes Industries.\n\nOrville Carlisle became the first member of the National Association of Rocketry (NAR #1), founded in 1957 by G. Harry Stine. Later, he served as a member of the Technical Committee on Pyrotechnics of the National Fire Protection Agency.\n\nOnly two original \"Rock-A-Chute\" models survived, both of which are preserved in the National Air and Space Museum.\n\n"}
{"id": "1927633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1927633", "title": "New Russia (disambiguation)", "text": "New Russia (disambiguation)\n\nNew Russia or Novorossiya, was a historical region in the Southeastern Ukraine and European part of Russia.\n\nNew Russia or Novorossiya may also refer to:\n"}
{"id": "1927645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1927645", "title": "Vespertine (biology)", "text": "Vespertine (biology)\n\nVespertine is a term used in the life sciences to indicate something of, relating to, or occurring in the evening. In botany, a vespertine flower is one that opens or blooms in the evening. In zoology, the term is used for a creature that becomes active at dusk, such as bats and owls. Strictly speaking, however, the term means that activity ceases during the hours of full darkness and does not resume until the next evening. Activity that continues throughout the night should be described as nocturnal. \n\nVespertine behaviour is a special case of crepuscular behaviour; like crepuscular activity, vespertine activity is limited to dusk rather than full darkness. Unlike vespertine activity, crepuscular activity may resume in dim twilight before dawn. A related term is matutinal, referring to activity limited to the dawn twilight. \nThe word \"vespertine\" is derived from the Latin word \"vesper\" (evening).\n\n"}
{"id": "1927648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1927648", "title": "Marit Larsen", "text": "Marit Larsen\n\nMarit Elisabeth Larsen (born 1 July 1983) is a Norwegian singer and songwriter. She began playing violin at age of 5 and played it until the age of 8. She gained international fame during her teenage years as a member of the pop duo M2M with childhood friend Marion Raven. She then pursued her own music career, releasing her debut solo album \"Under the Surface\" in 2006. Her second album, \"The Chase\", was released in Norway in October 2008. Her third album, titled \"Spark\" was released in Norway, Denmark, Sweden and Finland on 18 November 2011, and in Germany, Austria and Switzerland on 16 December 2011. Her fourth studio album \"When the Morning Comes\" was released on 20 October 2014. Larsen toured in its support within Norway with her own concerts, played songs from the album in Germany and Switzerland at public festivals and was the opening act at two of Johannes Oerding's concerts in November 2015.\n\nMarit Larsen was born in Lørenskog, Norway. She became friends with Marion Raven at age five, and they formed their own band when they were eight, naming it \"Hubba Bubba\" after their favourite bubblegum. They released a children's album, \"Synger Kjente Barnesanger\", under the band name \"Marit & Marion\". The album was nominated for a Spellemannprisen award when they were both 12 years old. They later decided to shorten the band name to M2M. Atlantic records signed them to a worldwide contract in 1998. Their debut single, \"Don't Say You Love Me\", was both a critical and commercial success, was their debut album, \"Shades of Purple\". Despite critical acclaim, their second album, \"The Big Room\", did not perform as well commercially, and the duo broke up the year of its release.\n\nAfter the breakup of M2M, Raven began her solo career, while Larsen took time off to go to school. Fan interest was reignited in 2004 and early 2005 when Larsen made several appearances in Norway, showing off a darker-haired image and new music with increased instrumental and lyrical scope. Larsen performed three original songs, titled \"This Time Tomorrow\", \"Recent Illusion\", and \"Walls\", on NRK radio in October 2004, showcasing her skills at both guitar and piano. She also performed live at the highly anticipated concert in February 2005.\n\nLarsen recorded her debut album in fall 2005, \"Under the Surface\", with her new record label, EMI. The first single, \"Don't Save Me\", made radio impact on 3 January 2006, and quickly climbed into the top ten on many Norwegian charts and playlists. After the physical single release on 6 February 2006, \"Don't Save Me\" jumped to No. 1 on the official Norwegian singles chart in its second week of availability, and then spent five consecutive weeks in the top spot. The second single released from the album was the title track \"Under the Surface\". Both the single and its accompanying video were released in Norway in May 2006 and within a month the single became the most widely played track on Norwegian radio. After debuting at #19 the single peaked at #6 and spent 16 weeks inside the Norwegian Top 20. \"Only A Fool\" and \"Solid Ground\" were the third and fourth singles released, respectively. Her father Geir Tore Larsen played cello on the album, and her then-boyfriend, the musician Thom Hell, was one of the musicians on it.\n\n\"Under the Surface\", which was released in Norway on 6 March 2006, contains 11 songs, most of which were written solely by Larsen. Touted as \"what many people consider to be the most eagerly awaited album of 2006\" (according to Norwegian magazine, Plan B), the record debuted and peaked at No. 3 on the sales chart in Norway. On 31 March 2006, after just three weeks of sales, \"Under the Surface\" became a certified gold record in Norway, selling over 20,000 copies. In late 2006 and early 2007, \"Under the Surface\" won Larsen other accolades, including the award for Best Norwegian Act at the MTV Europe Music Awards, and the Spellemannprisen (Norwegian Grammy) awards for Best Female Artist and Best Video (\"Don't Save Me\"). After Larsen's Spellemannprisen victories in January 2007, the album crossed the 40,000 copy mark, qualifying it for platinum certification. It was later announced in May 2007 that the album had reached double platinum status. In addition, she was the most played artist on NRK P3 radio in 2006, with her three singles (\"Don't Save Me\", \"Under the Surface\", and \"Only A Fool\") being played collectively more than 880 times.\n\nConcurrently with the release of \"Under the Surface\", Larsen participated in the \"Lyd i mørket\" charity concert series in early March 2006. She began a Norwegian club tour in late April, headlining concerts for the first time in her career. She then played in music festivals across Norway during the summer, and held a second Norwegian club tour starting in October 2006.\n\n\"Under the Surface\" was released in India and Thailand in late 2006, and in November, \"Don't Save Me\" began to be played on MTV Asia. Larsen also began making international appearances, performing at special events in Germany and Spain in September 2006, India in October 2006, and France in January 2007. She appeared in the United States at South by Southwest in March 2007. On 2 May 2007, Right Bank Music announced that Larsen would be managed by them for a possible release in the U.S.\n\nLarsen's second solo album, \"The Chase\", was released in Norway on 13 October 2008 and in Sweden on 19 November 2008. Like \"Under the Surface\", it was well received by critics; in December, it was named as the top album of the year by Dagbladet reviewers.\n\nThe first single from \"The Chase\", titled \"If A Song Could Get Me You\", shot to No. 1 on the Norwegian singles chart in its first week of sales in August 2008, and was later nominated for the Spellemannprisen award as Hit of the Year. The second single was \"I've Heard Your Love Songs\" (released 27 October 2008), and another song from the album, \"Steal My Heart\", was used in the soundtrack of the Norwegian movie \"I et speil, i en gåte\" ('‘Through a glass, darkly'’).\n\nEarly 2009, Larsen joined Jason Mraz as an opening act for his European spring tour. She was invited by Mraz when they met each other during the Nobel Peace Prize concert in 2008.\n\nLarsen released \"If A Song Could Get Me You\" as her first single outside Norway. It was released in Germany, Austria, Switzerland and Iceland. In Germany and Austria it became a number-one single. In Switzerland it peaked at No. 2. The song also peaked at No. 19 in Iceland.\n\nIn November 2009, Larsen started her first German-Swiss Tour.\n\nOn 24 November, \"Verdens Gang\", a Norwegian newspaper made a list of the best Norwegian songs of the past decade 2000–2009. \"Under the Surface\" was judged as the best song of the decade, making her 1st place on the list. Her song \"If A Song Could Get Me You\" came in 4th place and her album \"Under the Surface\" gets 2nd place for the best album of the decade.\n\nMarit recorded a duet with Belgian singer/songwriter Milow titled \"Out of My Hands\". The song was originally contained in Milow’s album “Coming of Age” released in 2008 in Belgium. The duet version featuring Marit was released on 12 February 2010 via Milow’s MySpace page and Marit’s YouTube page.\n\nIn July 2010, Marit Larsen released the remake single of \"Don't Save Me\".\n\nJanuary 2011 Larsen recorded the song \"Vår Beste Dag\" (Our Best Day) in her native language for the NRK. Released only in Norway, it reached No. 1.\n\nOn 1 August, Marit Larsen started to record her 3rd solo album at Propeller Recordings.\n\nOn 7 October Marit Larsen announced that the album will be called \"Spark\" including 10 new tracks. The album was released in Norway, Sweden, Finland and Denmark on 18 November. In Germany, Switzerland and Austria the album was released on 16 December. The first single, \"Coming Home\" had premiered on NRK P1 and on her Facebook page on 15 October. The music video had premiered on Verdens Gang's website on 12 November.\n\nOn 24 October 2011, \"Coming Home\" received successful radio airplay in the Philippines and named as the \"Most Wanted Song Of The Month\", reached atop for 4 consecutive weeks, and gave Marit her first number 1 song as a solo artist in the Philippine Top 100 Songs ( Last time was way back in 2000 when \"The Day You Went Away\" stayed atop for 9 non-consecutive weeks but was with M2M (band) ). On 16 December \"Coming Home\" was also performed by Marit Larsen on the finals of \"Idol Norge\" while Marion Raven was one of the judges on the same show. On 9 January 2012, despite of not being released as a single, \"Last Night\" received moderate radio airplay success in the Philippines and stayed atop for 2 consecutive weeks and gave Marit her second number 1 song in the Philippine Top 100 Songs. It also reached number 3 in Thailand.\n\nOn 14 July 2014, Marit Larsen made the premiere of the single \"I Don't Want to Talk About It\" from the album \"When the Morning Comes\" on NRK P3 radio. The single was released on 4 August 2014. The album, which climbed to No. 1 in Norway, was released in the Nordic countries on 20 October 2014. In Germany, Switzerland and Austria it was released on 27 March 2015. In the USA \"When the Morning Comes\" was released through iTunes on 29 January 2016.\n\nBetween 14 January and 14 February 2015, Marit Larsen played nineteen concerts on her \"When The Morning Comes Tour\" in Norway. On 18 January 2016, despite of not being released as an official single, \"Before You Fell\" received commercial radio airplay success in the Philippines which helped the song to stay atop for 6 consecutive weeks and gave Marit her third number 1 song in the Philippine Top 100 Songs and it was named as the \"February Conqueror\" by the DJ's for staying at number 1 for the whole month and on 7 March, it was replaced by \"Please Don't Fall For Me\", her fourth number 1 song in the Philippine Top 100 Songs, which stayed atop for 2 non-consecutive weeks and made Marit as the second act to have a same artist replacement in the number 1 position (First was way back in 2009 when The Black Eyed Peas charted atop with Boom Boom Pow then replaced by I Gotta Feeling after 8 weeks) in the Philippine Top 100 Songs chart.\nIn January 2016 Marit Larsen announced that she will release new material in April 2016. She also announced that she will release her new material on her own, independent label (\"Håndbryggrecords\"), and will continue to release music independently in the future. The EP, entitled \"Joni Was Right\", was released on 1 April 2016. It contains five tracks and is available on iTunes and other online music stores. On 9 September 2016 the EP \"Joni Was Right pt. II\", which contains five tracks, was released on iTunes and other online music stores. On 9 September 2016 Marit Larsen also released a CD and a vinyl record called \"Joni Was Right I & II\", where the ten tracks of the two EP releases were combined. The CD release of \"Joni Was Right I & II\" entered the Norwegian album charts at #36 on 16 September 2016.\n\n"}
{"id": "1927653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1927653", "title": "Sefton, New South Wales", "text": "Sefton, New South Wales\n\nSefton, a suburb of the City of Canterbury-Bankstown local government area, is located 23 kilometres west of the Sydney central business district, in the state of New South Wales, Australia, and is a part of the Western Sydney region. \nSefton shares the postcode of 2162 with the neighbouring suburb of Chester Hill.\n\nThe name Sefton was taken from Sefton in Merseyside, England. James Wood gave the name 'Sefton Park' to the of land granted to him in 1839. Prior to subdivision, Sefton was an area of market gardens, orchards and poultry farms. It was the birthplace of property group Stockland in 1952, when founder Ervin Graf undertook a development project of 19 houses in the suburb.\n\nSefton railway station is on the Bankstown Line of the Sydney Trains network. There is a small shopping centre clustered around the railway station including Sefton Growers Market, Sefton Newsagency and a Thai/Australian bistro adjacent to the newsagency.\n\nSefton Infants School is a small public school catering for years Kindergarten to Year 2 and also includes a pre-school. Sefton High School is a co-educational, partially selective, high school with just over 1000 students. Sefton's selective-school section operates from years 7-10 and years 11-12 are integrated into the community section of the school. Immaculate Heart of Mary Catholic School is a co-educational primary school catering from Kindergarten to Year 6 and is adjacent to the Immaculate Heart of Mary Church.\n\nA number of sporting facilities are located around Sefton. This includes Jensen Oval and Sefton Golf Course. Sefton Golf Course is a council-owned 18-hole par-3 course on 15.6 hectares and is open all year round.\n\nIn the 2016 Census, there were 5,808 people in Sefton. 48.6% of people were born in Australia. The next most common countries of birth were Vietnam 14.0%, Lebanon 6.8% and China 5.0%. 28.5% of people spoke only English at home. Other languages spoken at home included Arabic 19.9%, Vietnamese 17.8%, Cantonese 5.9% and Mandarin 4.2%. The most common responses for religion were Islam 25.8%, Catholic 20.6%, No Religion 15.3% and Buddhism 13.8%.\n\nAt the state level, Sefton is part of the electoral district of Bankstown. At the federal level, Sefton is part of the electoral Division of Blaxland.\n\nIn 2008, it was a filming location for the international, award-winning and critically acclaimed television drama series East West 101.\n\n"}
{"id": "1927662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1927662", "title": "Stanisława of Bogoria and Skotnik", "text": "Stanisława of Bogoria and Skotnik\n\nStanisława of Bogoria and Skotnik () (died c. March 27, 1352) was a Polish noblewoman and member of the Bogoriowie family of the Bogorya coat of arms.\n\nStanisława was the daughter of Paweł of Bogoria and Skotnik. She married Spytek of Melsztyn about 1315.\n\nChildren:\n"}
{"id": "1927663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1927663", "title": "Maylandia estherae", "text": "Maylandia estherae\n\nMaylandia estherae (the Red zebra mbuna, Red zebra cichlid , or Esther Grant's zebra) is a haplochromine cichlid. It is a rock dwelling fish or mbuna from Lake Malawi. This fish, like most cichlids from Lake Malawi, is a mouthbrooder - females hold their fertilized eggs then fry in their mouths until they are released after about 21 days.\n\nThe genus name for this fish was once \"Pseudotropheus\" but that name is now restricted to different fish. Most ichthyological taxonomists place the species in \"Maylandia\", though Ad Konings and thus much of the aquarium-related literature use \"Metriaclima\" instead. The specific name of this fish honours Esther Grant, the wife of the cichlid exporter Stuart M. Grant.\n\n\"Maylandia estherae\" is endemic to Lake Malawi. Specifically, this species of freshwater tropical fish mainly lives in the north and northwest parts of the lake.\n\nFemales can grow up to while males will grow up to .\n\nDespite their \"red zebra\" name, wild males commonly can be found with a blue color as well as the orange typical to those found in aquariums most of the time. Wild females are orange to bright orange. Captive fish are available in numerous color including orange or blue males and females. The fins of this species display beautiful, vibrant patterns of differing palettes.\n\nThe males are territorial over the areas they prefer and those who reach dominance in an aquarium will pick on subordinate males and behave territorially in general. Like the other cichlids of this genus, they are best kept in a harem with one male to many females. Like any cichlid, it is recommended to house red zebra cichlids in rather large tanks with several other African cichlids. One should exercise caution when selecting tank mates because even if one takes care to only house a red zebra with other cichlids, South American cichlids and African cichlids are often unable to share a community tank in peace (though it is completely within the realm of reason for an experienced aquarium keeper to make this work). In addition, every keeper of the red zebra cichlid should be mindful of their preference for rocky terrain with numerous hiding places — for both smaller, weaker fish to seek shelter, and for the red zebra(s) to claim as their territory. \n\nThis is a species known to “arrange” substrate pebbles, small plants, and other aquarium decor far more often than other aquarium fish. This means keepers of red zebra cichlids often find their desired tank aesthetic slowly altered by this fish to maximize its comfort in the tank. It is often a pointless exercise to undo the arrangements of a red zebra, as they will readily overrule the keeper by moving everything back into the arrangement they desire. Oftentimes, the red zebra will seek to maximize the size of their chosen “home” by creating a pit in the substrate underneath covered shelter. Proficient in using their mouth as a tool, like most cichlids, red zebras will also pick up pebbles/rocks with their mouths for the purpose of “building” up areas they want covered up or elevated. One such example is to wall up secondary entrances to their favorite “dwelling” in an effort to make it more private. Because the fish is so active in terms of “renovating” their aquariums with their mouths, keepers must make sure the substrate within red zebra aquariums is smooth and of high quality to avoid injury. \n\nThe fish’s predominate food source is algae and other plant life when in its natural habitat of Lake Malawi, though those in aquariums will certainly eat typical cichlid foods, some vegetable greens, and small, freeze-dried aquatic fauna as a treat. They should not be fed live foods by their keeper or there will be a risk for bloating, which can prove fatal. High protein foods typically sold for cichlids are unnecessary for red zebras as they grow to their relatively small adult size quickly. Like other cichlids, they thrive in waters that are between a of pH 7.5-8.5, hard 150–200 mg/l, and 72-82 degrees F (22-26 degrees C). Red zebra cichlids are rather hardy and can tolerate less than ideal water conditions, but keepers should seek the conditions listed above in order for the red zebra to live a healthy, active life.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1927666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1927666", "title": "Pseudotropheus", "text": "Pseudotropheus\n\nPseudotropheus is a genus of fishes in the family Cichlidae. These mbuna cichlids are endemic to Lake Malawi in Eastern Africa.\n\nLike some other large cichlid genera, such as \"Cichlasoma\", a number of related fishes have been recently reassigned to different genera such as \"Tropheops\" or \"Maylandia\". Some species of \"Melanochromis\" in turn have been moved into \"Pseudotropheus\". \n\nThere are currently 24 recognized species in this genus:\n\n\nSeveral of these were moved to the new genus \"Chindongo\" in 2016.\n\nMbuna literally means \"rockdweller\" and this description accurately depicts the lifestyle of these cichlids which mostly live in rocky areas. Most pseudotrophine cichlids are algal grazers in the wild.\n\nLike most cichlids from Lake Malawi, fish from this genus reproduce via maternal mouthbrooding. The males often have egg spots on their anal fins which attract spawn-ready females towards them where they attempt to retrieve the imitation eggs while the male emits sperm into her biting mouth, thus fertilizing the eggs. The female and male generally move in an intensive circular motion while they spawn. Eventually, the female retrieves all of her eggs and incubates them in her mouth without eating for 2–4 weeks depending on the species and the particular fish after which the fry are released. Most, possibly all species of \"Pseudotropheus\" will breed together if given the right environment.\n\nFish of this genus are popular amongst tropical aquarists. They are relatively aggressive fish, usually requiring large aquaria with ample rock coverage for hiding and providing havens from aggression. It is usually important to keep a high population of fish in the aquaria to distribute the aggression. They are extremely hardy fish and can live nearly ten years. It is best to keep them with other African cichlids of similar size.\n"}
{"id": "1927667", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1927667", "title": "La Barra Brava", "text": "La Barra Brava\n\nLa Barra Brava is an independent supporters' group for Major League Soccer's D.C. United and the United States. La Barra Brava are often called the craziest fans in MLS for their antics.\n\nIt was founded in 1995 by Latino fans in the Washington, D.C. area, mostly Bolivian immigrants in support of original United players Marco Etcheverry and Jaime Moreno.\n\nSince then, the group has expanded and all have been welcomed, while the group has remained closely identified with its South American roots. Members currently stand and sing in Audi Field. La Barra was founded by Oscar Zambrana and is led by Oscar and a group of \"Elders\".\n\nLa Barra Brava runs several events and programs for members and all United fans throughout the year. They sponsor away-game viewing parties, road trips to away matches and popular charity raffles that have raised thousands of dollars. They also maintain relationships with fan organizations worldwide, particularly with the Nottingham Forest Supporters Southwest/M5 Branch. La Barra Brava publishes at least 3 articles on United and soccer per week on their website. The organization also oversees Barra Brava FC, which fields several teams in the competitive Washington International Soccer League.\n\nWithin MLS, the Barra is known for its drumming, including the famous \"Drum Circles\" at halftime and after home matches. In 2005, La Barra Brava received extensive media coverage when suspended United playmaker Christian Gomez joined the Barra at road game in NJ and played a bass drum during the second half to support his teammates.\n\nIn 2006 the Barras expanded their events beyond the MLS season attending several of the NHL's Washington Capitals home games at the Verizon Center. However, their presence at the arena was met with mixed reviews from ice hockey fans.\n\nNumerous references have been made by the media regarding La Barra Brava. On several occasions, when games at RFK are shown on national television via ESPN or ABC, announcers will mention how La Barra Brava contribute to United's impressive home record. Tony Kornheiser has also used La Barra Brava as his stereotypical example of what he thinks typical D.C. United fans are like.\n\n"}
{"id": "1927674", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1927674", "title": "Sefton railway station", "text": "Sefton railway station\n\nSefton railway station is located on the Main South line, serving the Sydney suburb of Sefton. The station is heritage-listed in the state heritage register for New South Wales. It is served by Sydney Trains T3 Bankstown line services.\n\nSefton station opened on 19 October 1924 when the Lidcombe to Regent's Park line was extended to Cabramatta to become part of the Main South line. The station building is of a characteristic standard design from the 1920s and 1930s. The station was further expanded in the following years, with booking and parcels offices installed on the footbridge in 1928.\n\nThe station has undergone changes over the years as the importance of the station decreased and its urban context changed. The buildings on the footbridge were removed. Flower boxes, hedges and trees on the platform were removed. An awning was erected at the end of the 20th century to connect the footbridge landing with the main station building. In 2009, as part of the construction of the Southern Sydney Freight Line, major works were carried out in and around the station, including reconstruction of part of the footbridge, and the installation of lifts.\n\nFrom inception, passenger services at Sefton connected it directly to Lidcombe, Strathfield and the City Circle (later known as the Inner West Line). With the completion of the Bankstown Line extension from Birrong, a small number of services were added through the station between Liverpool and Bankstown. These were gradually increased, progressively replacing services on the Inner West Line until they were eliminated in October 2013 except for two trains eastbound and one train westbound on weekday mornings.\n\nToday Sefton is served by T3 Bankstown line services terminating at Liverpool and three Liverpool - City via Strathfield services on weekdays.\n\nTransdev NSW operates one route via Sefton station:\n\nSefton station is served by one NightRide route:\n\n"}
{"id": "1927675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1927675", "title": "Glennon", "text": "Glennon\n\nGlennon is an Irish surname and given name. It is an anglicized form of the Gaelic Patronymic name Mag Leannáin, meaning \"son of Leannán.\" The root word of this name is \"leann,\" meaning \"cloak.\" The surname was first found in Leinster, where they held a family seat from ancient times.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1927679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1927679", "title": "Ron Walker (Australian businessman)", "text": "Ron Walker (Australian businessman)\n\nRonald Joseph Walker (15 September 1939 – 30 January 2018) was an Australian businessman best known for his work in managing sporting events. He was also involved with property development and media companies, as well as serving as Lord Mayor of Melbourne from 1974 to 1976.\n\nThe son of a Hoyts Cinema senior supervisor, Walker attended Caulfield Grammar School and as a schoolboy, he started his first business at a backyard in Collingwood, making dishwashing detergents and washing cars. He then sold newspapers at a train station. Elected to the Melbourne city council in 1969, he served as the Lord Mayor of Melbourne from 1974 to 1976. He became a prominent Liberal Party figure, working as honorary National Treasurer from 1987 to 2002.\n\nIn 1988, he was appointed as a Commissioner for Melbourne's 1996 Olympics bid to host the Games. His relationship with former Liberal Victorian Premier, Jeff Kennett, helped him to become the Chairman of the Australian Grand Prix Corporation, after Walker helped deliver Melbourne the hosting rights for the event from Adelaide in 1993. However, it was Labor Premier Joan Kirner who appointed Walker as Chairman of the Melbourne Major Events Company, the body which managed both the bids for the Grand Prix and the 2006 Commonwealth Games. Walker was also the Chairman of Melbourne 2006, the organising body for the 2006 Commonwealth Games.\n\nDuring his business career he held large stakes in companies such as People Telecom, Primelife and Buka Minerals.\n\nIn 1976, he held a partnership with another Melbourne businessman, Lloyd Williams. The pair formed a property development company called Hudson Conway, which developed the Crown Casino complex in Melbourne and was the casino's first operator. In 2000, Walker resigned from Hudson Conway, netting approximately from the sale of his shares. In 2003 he co-founded, and was chairman of Evolve Development, a private property development and investment group based in Melbourne.\n\nBetween 2005 and 2009, Walker was chairman of Fairfax Media, publisher of both \"The Age\" and \"The Sydney Morning Herald\" newspapers and a range of other media assets. Walker decided to not seek re-election as chairman of the Fairfax board following a public and acrimonious boardroom dispute in 2009. By June 2011, Walker was reported as leading a group of wealthy Melbourne investors that approached Fairfax Media and sought to acquire \"The Age\" and radio station 3AW from Fairfax. However, their approaches were rebuffed.\n\nWalker also served as Chairman of the Microsurgery Foundation of the Bernard O'Brien Institute of St Vincent's Hospital, Melbourne. The aim of the Foundation is to raise funds for research, equipment and building infrastructure for the O'Brien Institute.\n\nIn 2010, he underwent emergency brain surgery after falling off his bike in Melbourne's Royal Botanic Gardens. He also suffered broken ribs and concussion in the fall.\n\nWalker's interests included a collection of classic cars and property; and he had an estimated net worth of A$978 million according to the 2011 \"BRW\" Rich 200. He was married to Barbara, with three children.\n\nHe died from cancer on 30 January 2018.\n\nWalker received a range of imperial and Australian honours including:\n\nIn 1975 Walker was named as Victoria's Outstanding Man of the Year during his term as Lord Mayor of Melbourne; Victorian Father of the Year in 1976, and Victorian of the Year in 1994.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1927687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1927687", "title": "Mikołaj of Bogoria and Skotnik", "text": "Mikołaj of Bogoria and Skotnik\n\nMikołaj of Bogoria and Skotnik (, died ca. 1338) was a Polish nobleman (szlachcic), member of the Bogoriowie family of the Bogorya Coat of Arms.\n\nMikolaj was Podkomorzy of Kraków from 1318 until 1330 and voivode of Kraków Voivodship from 1331 until 1338. He became an adviser of King Wladyslaw I Lokietek and was diplomat during the first years of reign of King Casimir III of Poland.\n\nHe was son of Piotr of Bogoria and Skotnik.\n"}
{"id": "1927693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1927693", "title": "Strawberry 100%", "text": "Strawberry 100%\n\nThe manga was later adapted into an anime and several OVAs by Japanese animation studios Madhouse and Nomad (OVA only). The anime aired on Animax and TV Asahi from April 2005 to July 2005.\n\nA sequel subtitled \"East Side Story\" ran in the \"Shōnen Jump Giga\" manga anthology from April 2017 to June 2017.\n\n\"Strawberry 100%\" chronicles the school years of Junpei Manaka, a student and aspiring movie director, and his relationships with the girls that enter his life. At the start of the series, he encounters a mysterious and beautiful girl on the roof of his middle school, but does not remember anything about her other than that she wears strawberry-print panties. She leaves before he can talk to her, but he finds a notebook nearby, belonging to Aya Toujou, an ordinary-looking glasses-wearing girl who is a gifted writer. The two become friends with the common ambition of turning great stories into movies. Thinking that Tsukasa Nishino, the most popular girl in his school, might be the mystery girl, he asks her out in a bold confession at the chin-up bar, and is surprised when she accepts. He later realizes Tsukasa is not the mystery girl but chooses to continue their relationship anyway. He places into Izumizaka High, but learns that Aya has given up an offer to the prestigious Oumi Academy to attend Izumizaka with him and that she is the mystery girl.\n\nAt Izumizaka, Junpei encounters a feisty girl named Satsuki Kitaoji. The two become friends because of common interests, but Satsuki falls in love with him. Junpei tries to join the film club but learns it has been disbanded. He revives the club thanks to Aya, Satsuki, and his high school friends as members. Junpei also discovers that his childhood friend Yui Minamito is moving into his family's home, but she ends up attending Oumi Academy. The film club make one film each year, each written by Aya and directed by Junpei, which is screened at the school festival. Satsuki stars in their first film, Tsukasa is the heroine of their second film, and Aya is the heroine of the third movie.\n\nOver the course of his high school life Junpei experiences many awkward moments involving the four girls in his life. Even though he is seeing Tsukasa, he also has feelings for Aya and remains indecisive about whom he really loves. Eventually, Tsukasa grows impatient and breaks up with him. During this time Junpei and Aya's mutual feelings start to grow, but when Junpei finds out that Tsukasa still thinks about him, he becomes confused again. Things get more complicated as the students enter their third year and face education and career choices. Tsukasa plans to become a patissier in Paris and Aya decides to go to the same college Junpei has chosen. She even goes to the same cram school as him even though their friends disagree with her decision to give up better schools just to help Junpei make films. Aya eventually tells Junpei she also wishes to try for the university her parents recommend, much to Junpei's disappointment.\n\nMatters come to a head when Junpei sees Aya with her brother and mistakes him for a new boyfriend. Having attended the same high school and made films together, he thought that Aya will always be with him and is unable to accept her supposed new relationship. When Tsukasa confesses that she wants to be Junpei's girlfriend again, he seeks comfort from her, but later denies that it was because of Aya. He later finds out the truth and that Aya has always been in love with him, but Junpei doesn't want to be unfair to Tsukasa and stays with her. Later, even at the risk of Tsukasa finding someone else, Junpei decides to break with her as he feels that he hasn't matured enough to be with her and needs to continue developing as both a film-maker and as a person. After graduation, the friends part company, each of them chasing after their own goals and ambitions.\n\nFour years later, Satsuki has become the owner of a relative's restaurant and the gang chooses her restaurant as the location for their reunion. Aya went to the prestigious university her academic achievements warranted and has become a successful writer and a more assertive person, even winning the Naoki prize, the Japanese equivalent of the Pulitzer prize. Junpei has won an award and has been accepted into a film studio after years of personal development. He is able to congratulate Aya on her accomplishments without jealousy now and hopes to make her notebook novel into film. In the end, Junpei reunites with Tsukasa, who has returned after several years in Paris, and the two rekindle their relationship.\n\n\nWritten and illustrated by Mizuki Kawashita, \"Strawberry 100%\" was first serialized in Weekly Shōnen Jump magazine from February 2002 to August 2005. The 167 chapters were then compiled into nineteen \"tankōbon\" volumes by Shueisha. The first volume was released on August 2, 2002, with the final volume released December 2, 2005. \"Strawberry 100%\" was later licensed for English language release by Viz Media. The first volume was released on July 3, 2007, with the volumes continually being released every few months. The newest volume, number 14, was released in October 2010. Viz also partnered with fellow publishing house Tokyopop for release in Germany under the name \"100% Strawberry\".\n\nA sequel subtitled \"East Side Story\" began serialization in Shueisha's \"Jump Giga\" magazine in April 2017. The story focuses on Aya Tojo as a popular light novelist and university student who attracts the affections of a high school boy named Namaka, who physically resembles Junpei Manaka. The last chapter was published in June 2017 with the fourth and final issue of the magazine.\n\n\"Strawberry 100%\" was adapted into a 12 episode anime television series by Madhouse, written by Tatsuhiko Urahata, and directed by Osamu Sekita. It aired across Japan on Animax and TV Asahi. Each episode consisted of two short stories. The last pair of stories were not broadcast in the original run; later, this episode has become known as episode 10.5. The opening theme was \"Shine of Voice\" by Dream, with the ending theme being \"Ike Ike\" by HINOI TEAM.\n\nThe OVAs of Strawberry 100% were all released at different times compared to the TV series.\n\nThe first OVA was released in October 2004 before the TV series aired (and was made solely by Madhouse). Chronologically, the first OVA story is direct continuation of the TV series. The second OVA series (four episodes) are not a continuation of the TV series, but are rather separate episodes based on certain chapters from the Strawberry 100% manga.\n\nThe opening theme of all five Strawberry 100% OVAs was \"Kimiiro 100%\" (君色100％), sung by the voice actresses of the four lead characters, Mamiko Noto, Megumi Toyoguchi, Nana Mizuki, and Sanae Kobayashi. The ending theme is different in each episode.\n\nA PlayStation 2 video game was later released, titled . The game was published and developed by Takara Tomy, and released on February 10, 2005 in Japan. The game was re-released under the Tomy Best Collection on March 30, 2006.\n\nInitially critics expressed concern that \"Strawberry 100%\" would be a traditional harem comedy. Carlo Santos of Anime News Network (ANN) complained that Volume 1 quickly descended into \"typical boy's romance fodder.\" Response to the characters was more enthusiastic. Robert Harris of Mania.com praised Volume 1 for developing \"several effective, organic characters and relationships, along with a believable story and setting.\" Praise for the characters continued with the release of subsequent volumes, and worries that \"Strawberry 100%\" would be a traditional harem comedy abated. In his review of Volume 6, A.E. Sparrow of IGN Comics remarked \"\"Strawberry 100%\" is a harem manga of the highest caliber, and it has all the trappings of a good harem manga: Plenty of fan service, excellent artwork, and in those rarest of cases, a compelling storyline.\" Comic Book Bin's Leroy Douresseaux, discussing Volume 8, enjoyed the excellent characters, and commented: \"\"Strawberry 100%\" is a high school comedy/drama for everyone who loves the drama of high school love.\"\n\nMost critics have praised the artwork. Harris noted: \"The visual style remains firmly rooted in reality.\" While crediting \"Strawberry 100%\" with \"some of the finest artwork available,\" Sparrow warned that \"Strawberry 100%\" has a great deal of fan service, \"which will either repulse people or draw them in, depending on their predilection toward that kind of thing.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1927695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1927695", "title": "Senusret I", "text": "Senusret I\n\nSenusret I (Middle Egyptian: z-n-wsrt; /siː ni ˈwas.riʔ/) also anglicized as Sesostris I and Senwosret I, was the second pharaoh of the Twelfth Dynasty of Egypt. He ruled from 1971 BC to 1926 BC (1920 BC to 1875 BC), and was one of the most powerful kings of this Dynasty. He was the son of Amenemhat I. Senusret I was known by his prenomen, Kheperkare, which means \"the Ka of Re is created.\"\n\nHe continued his father's aggressive expansionist policies against Nubia by initiating two expeditions into this region in his 10th and 18th years and established Egypt's formal southern border near the second cataract where he placed a garrison and a victory stele. He also organized an expedition to a Western Desert oasis. Senusret I established diplomatic relations with some rulers of towns in Syria and Canaan. He also tried to centralize the country's political structure by supporting nomarchs who were loyal to him. His pyramid was constructed at el-Lisht. Senusret I is mentioned in the Story of Sinuhe where he is reported to have rushed back to the royal palace in Memphis from a military campaign in Libya after hearing about the assassination of his father, Amenemhat I.\n\nThe family relations of the king are well known. Senusret I was the son of Amenemhat I. His mother was a certain queen with the name Neferitatenen. His main wife was Neferu III who was also his sister and mother of his successor Amenemhat II. The known children are Amenemhat II and the princesses Itakayt and Sebat. The latter was most likely a daughter of Neferu III as she appears with the latter together in one inscription.\n\nSenusret I dispatched several quarrying expeditions to the Sinai and Wadi Hammamat and built numerous shrines and temples throughout Egypt and Nubia during his long reign. He rebuilt the important temple of Re-Atum in Heliopolis which was the centre of the sun cult. He erected 2 red granite obelisks there to celebrate his Year 30 Heb Sed Jubilee. One of the obelisks still remains and is the oldest standing obelisk in Egypt. It is now in the Al-Masalla (Obelisk in Arabic) area of Al-Matariyyah district near the Ain Shams district (Heliopolis). It is 67 feet tall and weighs 120 tons or 240,000 pounds.\n\nSenusret I is attested to be the builder of a number of major temples in Ancient Egypt, including the temple of Min at Koptos, the Temple of Satet on Elephantine, the Month-temple at Armant and the Month-temple at El-Tod, where a long inscription of the king is preserved.\n\nA shrine (known as the White Chapel or Jubilee Chapel) with fine, high quality reliefs of Senusret I, was built at Karnak to commemorate his Year 30 jubilee. It has subsequently been successfully reconstructed from various stone blocks discovered by Henri Chevrier in 1926. Finally, Senusret remodelled the Temple of Khenti-Amentiu Osiris at Abydos, among his other major building projects.\n\nSome of the key members of the court of Senusret I are known. The vizier at the beginning of his reign was Intefiqer, who is known from many inscriptions and from his tomb next to the pyramid of Amenemhat I. He seems to have held this office for a long period of time and was followed by a vizier named Senusret. Two treasurers are known from the reign of the king: Sobekhotep (year 22) and Mentuhotep. The latter had a huge tomb next to the pyramid of the king and he seems to have been the main architect of the Amun temple at Karnak. Several \"high stewards\" are attested. Hor is known from several stelae and from an inscription in the Wadi el-Hudi where he was evidently the leader of an expedition for amethyst. One of the stelae is dated to year nine of the king. A certain Nakhr followed in office attested around year 12 of the king. He had a tomb at Lisht. A certain Antef, son of a woman called Zatamun is known again from several stelae, one dates to year 24 another one to year 25 of Senusret I. Another Antef was the son a woman called Zatuser and was most likely also \"high steward\" in the king's reign.\n\nSenusret was crowned coregent with his father, Amenemhat I, in his father's 20th regnal year. Towards the end of his own life, he appointed his son Amenemhat II as his coregent. The stele of Wepwawetō is dated to the 44th year of Senusret and to the 2nd year of Amenemhet, thus he would have appointed him some time in his 43rd year. Senusret is thought to have died during his 46th year on the throne since the Turin Canon ascribes him a reign of 45 Years.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1927697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1927697", "title": "An Insomniac's Nightmare", "text": "An Insomniac's Nightmare\n\nAn Insomniac's Nightmare is a 2003 film that stars Dominic Monaghan and was created and released by Jagged Edge Films.\n\nMonaghan plays Jack, an insomniac in the city, fading in and out of reality through his own thoughts. He suffers many hallucinations including visions of the dead, in particular his best friend. He continually tells himself to wake up, but Jack is not asleep. He kills himself only to find that it is another hallucination, and only once morning comes do things stabilize even marginally, still creeping into insanity.\n"}
{"id": "1927700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1927700", "title": "Wojciech of Bogoria and Żminogród", "text": "Wojciech of Bogoria and Żminogród\n\nWojciech of Bogoria and Żminogród (, died ca. 1316) was a Polish nobleman (szlachcic), member of the Bogoriowie family of the Bogorya Coat of Arms. He was son of Piotr of Bogoria and Skotnik.\n\nWojciech was voivode of the Sandomierz Voivodship from 1306 to 1316.\n"}
