{"id": "1987838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1987838", "title": "Experimental travel", "text": "Experimental travel\n\nExperimental tourism is a novel approach to tourism in which visitors do not visit the ordinary tourist attractions (or, at least not with the ordinary approach), but allow whim to guide them. It is an alternative form of tourism in which destinations are chosen not on their standard touristic merit but on the basis of an idea or experiment. It often involves elements of humor, serendipity, and chance.\n\nThere are a number of approaches to experimental tourism:\n\nOther ideas do not have particular names:\n\n\nThe concept of experimental travel was developed by writer Joel Henry, the French director of the Laboratory of Experimental Tourism (Latourex).\n\nIn 2005, Lonely Planet published \"The Lonely Planet Guide to Experimental Travel\", which formalised and developed many of Henry's ideas.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1987843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1987843", "title": "Altaite", "text": "Altaite\n\nAltaite, or lead telluride, is a yellowish white mineral with an isometric crystal structure. Altaite is in the galena group of minerals as it shares many of properties of galena. Altaite has an unusually high density for a light-colored mineral. Altaite and other rare tellurides are classified in the sulfide mineral class (Dana classification).\n\nAltaite was discovered in 1845 in the Altai Mountains. Besides these mountains altaite can also be found in Zyryanovsk, Kazakhstan; the Ritchie Creek Deposit in Price County, Wisconsin; the Koch-Bulak gold deposit in Kazakhstan; Moctezuma, Mexico; and Coquimbo, Chile among other locations.\n\n"}
{"id": "1987847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1987847", "title": "Benoît de Sainte-Maure", "text": "Benoît de Sainte-Maure\n\nBenoît de Sainte-Maure (; died 1173) was a 12th-century French poet, most probably from Sainte-Maure-de-Touraine near Tours, France. The Plantagenets' administrative center was located in Chinon, west of Tours.\n\nHis 40,000 line poem \"Le Roman de Troie\" (\"The Romance of Troy\"), written between 1155 and 1160, was a medieval retelling on the epic theme of the Trojan War which inspired a body of literature in the genre called the \"roman antique\", loosely assembled by the poet Jean Bodel as the Matter of Rome. The Trojan subject itself, for which de Sainte-Maure provided an impetus, is referred to as the Matter of Troy.\n\nAnother major work, by a Benoît, probably Benoît de Sainte-Maure, is a lengthy verse \"Chronique des ducs de Normandie\". Its manuscript at Tours, dating to 1180–1200, is probably the oldest surviving text in Old French transcribed on the Continent.The first published edition was by Francisque Michel, 3 volumes, 1868-1844, based on the British Library manuscript. The standard edition is by Carin Fahlin (Uppsala), 3 volumes, 1951–1967, and is based on the Tours manuscript with variants from the British one.\n\n'Beneeit' is mentioned at the end of Wace's \"Roman de Rou\", which is also on the subject of the Dukes of Normandy:\n\n<poem>\n</poem>\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1987853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1987853", "title": "Winning the Future", "text": "Winning the Future\n\nWinning the Future: A 21st Century Contract with America is a book by former U.S. Speaker of the House Newt Gingrich that outlines Gingrich's plans for the United States of America. Published in 2005 by Regnery Publishing, its themes include: Social Security reform, immigration reform, education reform, increasing the usage of health savings accounts, allowing the disabled the option of working, and American interests within the world trading system.\n\nThe C-SPAN interview show \"After Words\" debuted on January 2, 2005; Gingrich was interviewed by Norm Ornstein for the first program, and \"Winning the Future\" was the subject of the interview.\n\n"}
{"id": "1987864", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1987864", "title": "Džej Ramadanovski", "text": "Džej Ramadanovski\n\nDžej Ramadanovski (; born 29 May 1964) is a popular Serbian recording of mixed Romani and Macedonian ethnicity.\n\nRamadanovski was born in Belgrade, Yugoslavia, into a Romani family from Resen, Macedonia. He grew up on Skanderbeg's Street in Dorćol, where he resides today. After befriending Marina Tucaković, he started his professional career in 1988, after participating in the MESAM festival with the song \"Zar ja da ti brišem suze\", finishing second.\n\nIn 1989, he made a cameo appearance in the movie Hajde da se volimo 2, performing one of his songs in the movie. He had his career high throughout the 1990s in Serbia, and to a lesser degree in Bosnia and Herzegovina. At the Grand Festival in 2008, he won second place with the song \"Imati pa nemati\". With his ex-wife Nada, he has daughters Ana and Marija.\n\nHe is a relative of disappeared Belgrade mobster Iso Lero \"Džamba\". In an interview given to Politika, Ramadanovski stated that Džamba is author of the text of two songs he later recorded and published. One was \"Teško je živeti\" from album \"Zar ja da ti brišem suze\" and the other was \"Žuta ruža/To je žena mojih snova\" published on his album \"1,2\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1987870", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1987870", "title": "Predrag Danilović", "text": "Predrag Danilović\n\nPredrag \"Saša\" Danilović (, ; born February 26, 1970), usually referred to in English as Sasha Danilović, is a Serbian professional basketball executive and former player, considered one of the best European shooting guards during the 1990s. Danilović was the EuroLeague Final Four MVP in 1992, was voted Mister Europa Player of the Year in 1998, and was Italian League MVP the same year.\n\nBeginning in 2007, Danilović served as the president of Partizan, the club with which he spent six years as a player, during the 1980s and early 1990s. In 2015, he resigned from the position. On 15 December 2016, Danilović became the president of the Basketball Federation of Serbia (KSS).\n\nBorn in Sarajevo to a family of Herzegovinian Serbs (father Milan from the Orašje Zubci village near Trebinje and mother Vuka from the Kukričje village near Bileća), Danilović grew up in the Alipašino polje neighbourhood near the RTV Sarajevo main building. During adolescence, his summers and winters were mostly spent in his parents' respective villages and the town of Trebinje where he had aunts and uncles.\n\nA tall and lanky kid, Danilović excelled in various sports, including soccer, speed skating, and street basketball. Already well versed in streetball, he started playing organized basketball in KK Bosna's youth setup under youth coach Mladen Ostojić. The player's talent was evident immediately and it didn't take long before he started receiving attention from bigger Yugoslav clubs such as KK Partizan whose assistant coach Duško Vujošević got alerted about the youngster's talents by the team's point guard Željko Obradović who had spotted Danilović during summer 1985 at an inter-republic youth basketball tournament on Mount Zlatibor. Young Danilović played for a select team of players from SR Bosnia-Herzegovina at the tournament.\n\nBy late 1985, Vujošević started courting the fifteen-year-old. Getting Danilović and his parents to agree to a move to Belgrade proved to be the easy part; the real challenge was getting his club KK Bosna to sign off on the transfer. Danilović wasn't under a professional contract with the club, but according to Yugoslav Basketball Federation (KSJ) rules, being a youth system prospect he needed his club's permission to complete the move. In Danilović's own words: \"The Bosna people weren't too keen on me at all while I was there; they even planned on loaning me out to other Sarajevo-area clubs, which I didn't want at all. But then Vujošević started sniffing around, and they suddenly wanted to keep me. Also, Bosna's club president Mirza Delibašić and Partizan's vice-president Dragan Kićanović were good friends from their playing days so that created additional awkwardness and the whole thing dragged out for a while\".\n\nSince Bosna didn't seem willing to let him go, by summer 1986, Danilović and Partizan decided to act unilaterally as the player moved to Belgrade knowing full well he'd have to sit out a year before taking part in official competitions. The move marked the beginning of a long friendship and professional association between Danilović and Vujošević with the twenty-eight-year-old coach initially acting as mentor to the sixteen-year-old player. By now Vujošević also moved up in the Partizan club hierarchy, becoming head coach in place of Vladislav Lučić while young Danilović trained with the first team as well as individually. Due to the unfortunate administrative situation, Danilović could only practice with Partizan players, which he did vigorously and devotedly up to 7 or 8 hours per day. He later said that it wasn't until his arrival at Partizan that he started training seriously. His living arrangements were provided for by the club; they put him up in a room at the JNA Stadium that he shared with youngster teammates Oliver Popović and Popović's brother. Furthermore, in accordance with his parent's wishes, the club ensured he also pursued his full-time secondary education by getting enrolled in the streamlined . However, unable to make the classes due to long and frequent practices, he soon switched to part-time education at the streamlined touristic high school. Discussing his first days in Belgrade and arrival to a new club, Danilović later said: \nSimultaneously KK Partizan tried to obtain permission to officially register their new player while Bosna for their part launched a process against the player with KSJ, which ruled in their favour, and young Danilović had another year added to his ban from playing competitive basketball for any age group within Partizan's system.\n\nFaced with new developments over the length of his ban, in the summer of 1987, seventeen-year-old Danilović moved to Cookeville, Tennessee, enrolling at Cookeville High School where he was a basketball, track, and water polo star coming in second place to Daren Matthews at the school meet. However, only seven months later, in February 1988, he went back to Belgrade. Coming back to SFR Yugoslavia from the United States, Danilović resumed practicing with Partizan, though still unable to play in official games with them. His living arrangements also changed; the club moved him to Hotel Putnik in New Belgrade for a short time before eventually putting him up in an apartment in Blok 45 that he also shared with Popović. In summer 1988, Danilović got included in the Yugoslavia under-18 national team that competed at the European Championship for Juniors on home soil in Titov Vrbas and Srbobran. Coached by his mentor Vujošević and playing alongside promising Yugoslav juniors Arijan Komazec, Žan Tabak, Rastko Cvetković, etc., Danilović led the team to the gold medal.\n\nIn the summer of 1988, Danilović's two-year ban finally expired and the player was free to suit up for Partizan. Already familiar with the players he had been practicing with for more than a year, the eighteen-year-old joined a roster laden with talent at all positions — twenty-one-year-old point guard Saša Đorđević, twenty-two-year-old forward Žarko Paspalj who could play both the three and four positions, twenty-two-year-old small forward Ivo Nakić, twenty-year-old versatile center Vlade Divac, and his twenty-one-year-old backup Miroslav Pecarski as well as a pair of experienced twenty-eight-year-olds: backup point guard Željko Obradović and backup center Milenko Savović. Starting small forward Goran Grbović (who often also played the shooting guard position) left the club for Oximesa that summer, opening up space for incoming Danilović. Coming off the season in which they made the EuroLeague Final Four (eliminated by Maccabi in the semifinal) and lost to emerging Jugoplastika in the Yugoslav League playoff final series, the young Partizan team was looking to reclaim the domestic league title.\n\nYoung Danilović immediately got big minutes at shooting guard, putting in a promising debut campaign, especially excelling in defensive tasks while contributing modest 5.6 points per game offensively (123 points over 21 league appearances). Partizan finished the regular season in first place with a 16-6 record, same as Jugoplastika, but with better basket difference, meaning the Belgrade club would have the home court advantage in the playoffs.\n\nWinning both cup competitions that season — the FIBA Korać Cup and the Yugoslav Cup — came as a great confidence boost for the young squad. The two trophies came in quick succession during mid March 1989 — on Thursday, 16 March, Partizan went to Cantù for the first leg of the Korać Cup final away versus Wiwa Vismara losing by 13 points with Danilović getting a starting assignment and recording 10 points, followed by travelling straight to Maribor to play Jugoplastika in the Yugoslav Cup final on Sunday, 19 March, and winning 87-74, before returning home for the return leg of the Korać Cup final on home court in Hala sportova on Wednesday, 22 March, and winning by 19 to overturn their first leg deficit and take the trophy. Danilović, this time coming off the bench, again contributed with 10 points in the return leg, getting his name on the second major trophy within three days.\n\nBack on the domestic league front, in the playoff semifinal, Partizan easily eliminated crosstown rivals Crvena Zvezda, setting up the final rematch with Jugoplastika that had won that season's EuroLeague in the meantime. The best-of-three final series started in Belgrade, but right away Partizan lost the home court advantage by dropping the opening game 73-74. The series shifted to Split where Jugoplastika won 75-70, beating Partizan to the league championship for the second straight season.\n\nA testament to his brilliant debut season, in summer 1989 Danilović got called up for the Yugoslav national team training camp by head coach Dušan Ivković ahead of EuroBasket 1989, eventually making the final 12-man squad where he played alongside club teammates Divac and Paspalj. Coming back to Partizan later that summer, the roster went through major changes as both Divac and Paspalj left after signing NBA contracts, with Lakers and Spurs, respectively, point guard Đorđević went to serve his mandatory Yugoslav People's Army (JNA) stint thus missing most of the season, while head coach Vujošević left for Spanish club Oximesa from Granada, taking veteran center Savović with him. Reba Ćorković, who previously coached the club during two separate stints in the mid-1970s and early 1980s (winning two domestic league titles, in 1975–76 and 1980–81 seasons), returned as head coach.\n\nPlaying with a depleted roster, the season turned out to be a write-off as it quickly became clear this Partizan squad was no match for tougher Yugoslav clubs. Their deficiencies were especially evident at center as Pecarski who in the absence of Divac got forced into playing long minutes was often outplayed by the opposition's center line. Partizan finished the season in 8th place with a 9-13 record, missing the playoffs — the club's worst league finish in nineteen years. They didn't fare much better in the Yugoslav Cup or FIBA European Cup Winners' Cup, finishing both competitions at the quarterfinal stage. It wasn't much better for Danilović individually, either: after starting the season off strongly with continually improving performances, he suffered an injury (broken leg) that ended his season after appearing in only 11 games, posting 14.3ppg. The injury also kept him out of consideration for the Yugoslavia national team roster at the 1990 World Championship.\n\nUtilizing his by now well-known penchant for hard work, twenty-year-old Danilović focused on rehabilitating his broken leg in order to regain game fitness for the start of the 1990–91 season. Meanwhile, the team went through significant changes with head coach Ćorković let go and eventually replaced with Danilović's mentor Vujošević who thus returned to the club after a largely unsuccessful episode in Spain. Another returnee with a sub-par season behind him was old favourite Paspalj, back after only a season with the Spurs. With Partizan's main title contender, reigning European and Yugoslav champions KK Split, going through a coaching change with their head coach Boža Maljković taking Barça's lucrative offer, in addition to their center Dino Rađa making a big money move to Italy, the reinforced Partizan roster seemed poised to finally overcome its biggest rival of the last few years.\n\nWith fully recovered shooting guard Danilović confidently holding Partizan's backcourt alongside point guard Saša Đorđević, the team finished the regular season in the second spot with an 18-4 record behind KK Split's 19-3. Now an integral part of the team, Danilović contributed with 13.9 points per game in the league.\n\nIn late June 1992, Danilović entered the NBA draft where he was taken in the second round by Golden State Warriors as the 43rd overall pick. He eventually decided to stay in Europe, signing with sports agent Mira Poljo, an established agent with good connections in Italy through Interperformances sports agency, who soon referred him to her partner Luciano Capicchioni. Danilović eventually signed a lucrative contract with Knorr Bologna paying him approximately $900,000 per season.\n\nArriving in the Italian city of Bologna and the club Virtus with an aura of the EuroLeague champion and EuroLeague Final Four MVP, big things were expected of 22-year-old Danilović. Earlier that summer, the club went through an ownership change with businessman acquiring it.\n\nCoached by Ettore Messina and playing alongside point guard Roberto Brunamonti and center line of Bill Wennington and Augusto Binelli, Danilović led the team to the top of the standings in the with a 24–6 record, ahead of former teammate Saša Đorđević's Philips Milano and reigning league champions Benetton Treviso led by Toni Kukoč, before sweeping through the playoffs without a single loss, overcoming Olimpia Pistoia, Clear Cantù, and finally Kukoč's Treviso in the playoff final series to dominantly win the Italian League title. Dueling with his old nemesis from the Yugoslav League, Danilović got the better of Kukoč this time. Establishing himself as Virtus's undisputed leader, Danilović averaged a combined 23.7 points per game over the course of regular season and playoffs.\n\nIn contrast to the domestic league, EuroLeague success proved elusive. The campaign started in early October, but it was the opening group stage game on 29 October 1992 that brought Danilović an uncomfortable away trip to play against Cibona in Zagreb. He thus became the very first Serb to play a competitive game in the newly independent Croatia after the breakup of Yugoslavia while the Yugoslav Wars were in full swing. Rattled by playing in an extremely hostile atmosphere, Danilović had a poor shooting night making 5 of 15 field goals, good for only 12 points as Virtus lost by 16. Talking about the Zagreb experience, later in 1996, Danilović said: \"Traveling to the game I assumed there would be issues, but I certainly didn't expect that much hate. Eight thousand people showed up just to insult a Serb. Getting through that game was not easy at all for me and you can tell from my stats. Even their player Franjo Arapović as well as their head coach Aco Petrović were hostile before the game even started wanting to hurl abuse at me, but I managed to put them in their place once we got out on the court. Also I think the two of them realized they had a rematch to play in Bologna in a few months so they didn't want to antagonize me too much\". In the rematch on home court in January 1993, inspired Danilović led the way with 9 of 12 field goal shooting and 23 points as Virtus jumped out to an early lead, recording a 40-point win by the end. Barely making it out of the group stage in the last qualifying spot with a 6-6 record meant that in their quarterfinal best-of-three series Virtus would face the top-placed team from the other group — formidable Real Madrid squad led by Arvydas Sabonis. Virtus got blown out by Real, losing the first game on home court at PalaDozza by 20 points with Danilović scoring 4 points while five days later in Madrid, Real finished the job with another convincing victory, this time by 21 points.\n\nIn summer 1993, coach Messina left the club to take the head coaching position at the Italian national team with returning coach Alberto Bucci coming in as his replacement at Bologna. The club got a new naming-rights sponsor, non-alcoholic Buckler Beer, as it waited to move into its new arena that was still being built. The roster largely remained the same; the only notable player personnel changes were Wennington's return to the NBA to play for the Chicago Bulls, and the arrival of former NBA player Cliff Levingston from PAOK. With Danilović's contributions to the success of Virtus, he, together with his agent Luciano Capicchioni, also began looking at the NBA as an option again, but in the end decided to stay put in Bologna for the time being.\n\nThe new season, 1993–94, mostly mirrored the previous one as it quickly became clear that no club was a match for Virtus in the Italian League. Jumping to the top of the standings with five straight wins to open the league season, they never relinquished first place until the end, finishing the regular season with the identical 24–6 record from the previous campaign. Well settled in Italy with monikers like \"lo Zar\" (the Tzar) and \"Zar Freddo\" (the Cold Tzar) given to him by the Italian sports media due to his prowess and calm-under-pressure demeanor on the court as well as inaccessible nature off it, Danilović continued to lead the team. In December 1993, approximately midway through the season, Virtus moved into its newly built 8,650-seat arena PalaMalaguti (which now seats 11,000), located outside of the city core in Casalecchio di Reno.\n\nDespite being selected by the Golden State Warriors with the 43rd pick overall in the 1992 NBA draft, Danilović continued playing in Europe for three more seasons before debuting in the National Basketball Association (NBA). In the meantime, during November 1994, his rights had been traded to the Miami Heat as part of a deal that sent 25-year-old Billy Owens to the Heat while the Warriors got 29-year-old center Rony Seikaly. In mid-June 1995, Danilović signed a four-year contract with Miami worth just over US$8 million. In order to accommodate signing Danilović, the Heat decided to trade Harold Miner to Cleveland for an exchange of second-round draft picks and future considerations thus freeing up space under NBA's salary cap.\n\nSeveral months later, one day before the scheduled start of the regular season, Miami pulled off a blockbuster trade with the Charlotte Hornets, sending the Heat's franchise player Glen Rice along with starting center Matt Geiger and point guard Khalid Reeves to the Hornets in exchange for their star player Alonzo Mourning with reserves Pete Myers and LeRon Ellis also thrown in.\n\nDuring his two NBA seasons (1995–1997), Danilović averaged 12.8 points, 2.4 rebounds and 2 assists per game.\n\nDanilović debuted for the Heat on Saturday, 4 November 1995, the opening day of the season, as a starter at the shooting guard position alongside Bimbo Coles, Billy Owens, Kevin Willis, and Alonzo Mourning. He contributed team-high 16 points, helping his team beat the Cleveland Cavaliers 85-71 before getting ejected towards the end of the game due to an altercation with Cleveland's Chris Mills. The incident that saw both players thrown out of the game occurred late in fourth quarter, starting with Mills hitting Danilović with a flying elbow to the chin as Danilović was cutting across the baseline, to which Danilović responded by allowing Mills to catch up before elbowing him back in the side of his head, to which Mills then reacted immediately by punching Danilović with a right hook to the jaw, leaving him with a cut lip that required nine stitches outside his mouth and three more inside. After the game, Danilović said he was just getting back at Mills after being hit, while Mills claimed Danilović had been playing dirty all game long. Both players were subsequently fined and suspended by the league — Mills received a one-game suspension and US$10,000 fine while Danilović also got suspended for one game for retaliation in addition to getting fined US$3,500.\n\nDespite receiving criticism over what some considered overly aggressive play, the Heat opened the season with an 11-3 record utilizing the starting five of Coles, Danilović, Owens, Willis, and Mourning. Just as Danilović began hitting his shooting stride in December 1995, averaging 20 points per game in the four contests between 6–12 December 1995, including season-high 30 points away at Phoenix, his season was disrupted by injury. On 14 December 1995, two days after appearing in the away loss at Golden State during which he scored 15 points before falling down on the floor and aggravating a previous injury sustained during his time in Italy, Danilović got placed on the team's injured list with right wrist issues that looked to be minor initially. Being an injury he had carried for three years already, Danilović was confident it would calm down again with customary therapy. However, when the swelling didn't dissipate within weeks as the attempts to rehabilitate his wrist through therapy failed, it became apparent that the injury was more serious this time, requiring attention of a specialist. Danilović's frustration of being on the sidelines with an injury that showed no signs of improving was evident on 23 December 1995. During halftime of an away game at Charlotte that he watched in street clothes from the bench, he was signing autographs near the tunnel leading to the locker rooms when an unruly fan began verbally abusing him; Danilović reacted by confronting the fan physically and had to be restrained by the Heat executive Randy Pfund. On 2 January 1996, Danilović went in for surgery performed by hand specialist Dr. Ann Ouelette at South Miami Hospital to repair a non-union of the scaphoid bone on his right hand. The surgery was successful, but with his hand in a cast and the recovery process expected to last 3–4 months, there were doubts about whether Danilović's season was over. In early February 1996, with his recovery schedule plan to be back in action for the final month of the regular season, Danilović was allowed to leave the team and go back to visit his family in Italy and FR Yugoslavia. During Danilović's layoff, the Heat completely overhauled their roster including their early season starting lineup. On 23 February 1996, the team made three trades in the same day, bringing in Tim Hardaway and Chris Gatling from Golden State for Bimbo Coles and Kevin Willis, then getting Walt Williams and Tyrone Corbin from Sacramento for Billy Owens and Kevin Gamble, and finally acquiring Tony Smith from Phoenix for Terrence Rencher.\n\nThe projections of Danilović coming back from injury at the beginning of April 1996 proved overly optimistic as his return took place on 21 April 1996 at home versus Atlanta, the Heat's last game of the regular season. Very rusty after four months on the sidelines during which he missed 62 games, Danilović, who had in the meantime also lost his spot in Miami's starting five to Rex Chapman, put up modest 8 points during 25 minutes of action off the bench on 3 for 9 shooting from the field that included airballing his first shot back after the injury layoff and coming up well short on his first 3-point shot as Miami lost 92-104. The Heat ended the season with 42-40 record, qualifying for the playoffs as the eight-placed team in the Eastern Conference where they would face the juggernaut Michael Jordan's Chicago Bulls team that had lost only 10 games the entire season.\n\nMaking his NBA playoffs debut only five days after coming back from months-long injury layoff, Danilović began on the bench as coach Riley continued with Chapman as the starter at shooting guard. The Serb had another poor post-injury outing, scoring only 3 points in 22 minutes on 1 for 3 from the field as Miami got blown out 102-85 by the Bulls. Two days later, game two of the series brought a much improved performance by Danilović who scored team-high 15 points off the bench in 23 minutes; however, the Heat still suffered an even worse blowout, this time by 31 points. The series then shifted to Miami, and the rampant Bulls converted on their first opportunity to end the series, beating the Heat easily for the third time in a row, 112-91, as Danilović, playing on reduced minutes, scored 7 points.\n\nIn early June 1997, after getting offered a US$6 million net income three-year contract from his old club Virtus, Danilović decided to end his time in the NBA, two years short of completing his 4-year contract, thus forfeiting $4.9 million in NBA salary. On 23 April 1998, Danilović won its second EuroLeague, defeating AEK in Barcelona. While on 31 May, Virtus conquered its 14th national title, defeating in Game 5 of the final, Teamsystem Bologna. At twenty seconds from the end of the game, with Fortitudo leading by 4, Danilović scored a three-points shot and at the same time suffered a foul by Dominique Wilkins, completing the so-called “four-point shot”. Than Virtus would won the match in the over time. The 1998 final between Virtus and Fortiudo is widely considered as the greatest one in the history of Italian basketball, with two teams from the same city, which were among the best ones in the continent.\n\nIn the following season, Virtus won its 7th Italian Cup but lost in the EuroLeague final against Žalgiris of Tyus Edney and was eliminated in the semi-finals for the national championship. Under Cazzola's presidency and thanks to the leaderships of Danilović and coach Messina, the 1990s were considered the \"Golden Age\" of Virtus, which collected four national titles, two Italian Cups, a Cup Winners' Cup and a EuroLeague, becoming one of the most notable and successful teams in Europe. In October 2000, at the end of the following season, Danilović surprisingly announced his retirement from professional sport.\n\nWith the senior Yugoslav national basketball team, Danilović won the gold medal at the both the 1989 EuroBasket and the 1991 EuroBasket. With the senior FR Yugoslav national basketball team, he won the gold medal at both the 1995 EuroBasket and the 1997 EuroBasket. He was also a member of the silver medal winning FR Yugoslav team at the 1996 Atlanta Summer Olympics.\n\n\nIn October 2000, shortly after retiring from playing professionally, Danilović became co-vice president of his old club KK Partizan alongside Žarko Paspalj, Dražen Dalipagić, and Ivica Divac, working under the also newly named club president Vlade Divac. The appointment came about on initiative by the club's about to be deposed president Ivica Dačić during the time of political upheaval in Serbia in the wake of the Slobodan Milošević overthrow. Seeing that various state-owned companies and community property were being taken over in a dubious manner during the power vacuum that resulted from régime change, Dačić (the club's outgoing president and, more importantly, a suddenly marginalized politician who, due to his association with Milošević, was forced to leave his post at the club) saw it prudent to bring the club's two former greats as a safeguard against the same happening to KK Partizan.\n\nSince club president Divac was at the time still an active player in the NBA with Sacramento Kings, while nominal co-vice presidents Paspalj, Dalipagić, and Ivica Divac exhibited little interest in being involved in the club's day-to-day business, Danilović essentially became the main decision-maker at KK Partizan.\n\nInheriting a head coach Darko Russo, Danilović let him finish out the season before hiring old mentor and friend Duško Vujošević during summer 2001. Vujošević immediately started producing results, winning the league title in 2001–02, ending KK Budućnost's three-year league championship run. It was the first of nine consecutive league trophies under his command. Though continually cash-strapped, under the command of Danilović, Divac, and sporting director Dragan Todorić, the club instituted a model of bringing up domestic young players from its own youth setup or smaller clubs in Serbia and Montenegro rather than relying on foreign imports. It proved a winner both on the court and business-wise as Partizan sold its best player in regular intervals (usually every summer) and then re-invested that money into the youth system or acquiring talented youngsters from smaller clubs while making sure that squad can function with other players stepping up. Under this model, in summer 2003 Miloš Vujanić was sold to Fortitudo Bologna while the following summer 2004 Nenad Krstić got sold to New Jersey Nets. The club managed to win the domestic league FR Yugoslavia/Serbia-Montenegro league year after year, ensuring a EuroLeague spot, which was essential for its bottom line.\n\nSimultaneously, Danilović was very much against his club joining the regional Adriatic League. However, by 2004, Partizan was essentially forced into the regional competition because its Euroleague spot now depended on competing regionally rather than domestically. This also brought about change in the club's business model as in the summer of 2004 they brought in already established national team players 27-year-old Dejan Milojević from KK Budućnost and 29-year-old Milan Gurović from KK Vojvodina to bolster the squad ahead of the start of competition in Adriatic League. It would prove to be one of Danilović's last orders of business at the club as he soon left KK Partizan.\n\nIn 2007 Danilović returned to KK Partizan, this time as president.\n\nIn late May 2007, following a Serbian Basketball League game from the SuperLeague phase, between KK Hemofarm and Partizan at Vršac's Millennium Centar, Danilović assaulted the referee Marko Juras. Dissatisfied over Juras' calls in the game that Partizan lost, thirty-seven-year-old KK Partizan president reportedly followed the twenty-nine-year-old referee into the referees' dressing room and proceeded to knock him to the floor, landing several punches. Juras filed a criminal complaint against Danilović as did the Serbian Ministry of Internal Affairs. In July 2007, Danilović got suspended by the Serbian Basketball Federation (KSS) from all basketball-related activity for two years, but two months later the punishment was reduced to a probationary period.\n\nOn August 24, 2015, he resigned from the president's position, after few years of financial troubles the club was going through.\n\nDanilović is married to Svetlana Danilović, an RTS sports reporter. The couple have three children, including Olga, a professional tennis player.\n\nHe was also involved with Group Seven, a charity organization founded by seven Serbian basketball players.\n\nOn 11 February 2009, Danilović filed a lawsuit against Worldwide Associates (a limited-liability company based in Carmel, Indiana and represented by Rick Suder and George Grkinich) alleging investment fraud connected to $4 million he gave the company to manage. Previously, Grkinich had also been involved with Group Seven.\n\nIn the early morning hours of Saturday, 18 May 2013, forty-three-year-old Danilović was stabbed during a bar brawl in Belgrade, sustaining injuries to his head, arms, and abdomen, for which he underwent surgery at Belgrade's Urgentni centar.\n\nFrom the press reports, KK Partizan club president Danilović had been drinking and eating at the Kafanica bar, a kafana-type establishment in the Košutnjak neighbourhood, together with a party of friends including the bar's owner — Danilović's close friend, Branko \"Fido\" Filipović — before a fight broke out around 2:20am between Filipović and Danilović. Filipović reportedly struck Danilović in the head with an ashtray prompting someone from the bar to call an ambulance, which Danilović refused upon their arrival, sending them away. The fight between the two continued with Filipović now stabbing Danilović in the abdomen, and injured Danilović driving by himself to the hospital. Due to the nature of his injuries, considered \"life-threatening\", Danilović underwent emergency surgery and afterward got placed in intensive care in stable condition. During the day Danilović was visited at the hospital by the Serbian prime minister Ivica Dačić (incidentally Danilović's personal friend and predecessor at the post of KK Partizan president), Serbian deputy prime minister Aleksandar Vučić and sports minister Alisa Marić. Talking to the press afterwards, prime minister Dačić jokingly described the circumstances of Danilović's stabbing as \"traditional Serbian quarrel between friends\".\n\nOn 20 May 2013, Serbian police issued an arrest warrant for Branko Filipović after unsuccessfully trying to summon him for questioning. Danilović got out of the hospital on 26 May 2013 and was seen in public at the Belgrade Airport awaiting the arrival of Jovica Stanišić and Franko Simatović, who were acquitted at the Hague Tribunal. After being on the run for more than two weeks, Filipović was arrested in Belgrade on 2 June 2013. After initially being charged with \"causing severe bodily harm with life-threatening injuries\", his charge was in the meantime upgraded to \"attempted murder\" by the Serbian public prosecutor office.\n\nDuring the trial, the role of Filipović's fiancée Sanja Ševović (who was also at the bar the night of the stabbing) came under scrutiny, particularly the exact time she claimed to have left the bar. In February 2014, Filipović got sentenced in the Belgrade Higher Court to four-and-a-half years in prison for the attempted murder of Danilović. After spending nine months in prison detention, Filipović was let out of jail on the same occasion until the sentence becomes legally-binding with the completion of the appeals process.\n\nThe case was appealed and in May 2015 the Court of Appeals annulled the lower court sentence, ordering a re-trial. Initially set for late August 2015, the re-trial began in mid-October 2015. Following court dates throughout 2016, 2017, and 2018, in early May 2018 Filipović and the Serbian public prosecutor office reportedly reached an admission of guilt agreement awaiting the Higher Court confirmation. Several weeks later, in late May 2018, the Higher Court confirmed the agreement, sentencing Filipović to one and a half years in prison in addition to a four-year conditional sentence.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1987871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1987871", "title": "The 1 Second Film", "text": "The 1 Second Film\n\nThe 1 Second Film is an American non-profit collaborative art project being created by thousands of people around the world, including many celebrities.\n\nThe film is built around one second of animation (made of 24 large collaborative paintings), and is followed by 1 hour of credits, listing everyone who participates. A feature-length \"making of\" documentary will play alongside the credits.\n\nThe project allows people around the world to participate online, and lists everyone who joins the crew as \"Special Thanks\" in the film credits. The production relies on crowd funding to raise the budget; everyone who donates or raises US$1 or more gets their name listed as a Producer in the film's credits. The production also gives a Publicist credit to crew members who refer at least one friend. The film currently has over 56,000 crew members from 158 countries.\n\n\"The 1 Second Film\" is the flagship production of The Collaboration Foundation, a 501(c)(3) non-profit arts organization formed to create global collaborative art projects that address various social issues. Once finished, any profits raised by \"The 1 Second Film\" will be donated to the Global Fund for Women, an independent charity. The online community being formed by \"The 1 Second Film\" project will be able to participate in future Collaboration Foundation projects.\n\nIn 2016, the director, Nirvan Mullick, posted an update on the project, stating it had been dormant, being put on the \"back burner\" in 2012, but he plans to continue it. By January 2019 the project's website was offline entirely due to a database corruption.\n\nThe title of \"The 1 Second Film\" derives from the fact that the animation at the core of the film project is just one second long (24 frames). The animation consists of 12 large frames (9 ft x 5 ft paintings). The frames were painted by hundreds of people during a multi-disciplinary event on March 8, 2001 (International Women's Day) at California Institute of the Arts. The event included live-performers and musicians; people attending the event were invited to help paint the frames of animation. Each frame had an art director that engaged the audience as participants; color design for the animation was selected by Jules Engel. Each of the 12 paintings is filmed twice (on 70 mm film) to create the 24 frames in one second of film.\n\nThe one second of animation will be immediately followed by an estimated one hour of end credits. Alongside the credits will be a feature-length documentary on the creation of the artwork.\n\nThe film is being crowd-funded by public donations. Donors receive a Producer credit in the film for a minimum of US$1.00 (with no maximum). Producers get listed in order of amount donated, which has led to the general public outbidding many of the celebrity producers to get a top billing. \n\n\"The 1 Second Film\" began as a student project by Nirvan Mullick in 2001 while at California Institute of the Arts. The director set out to create a collaborative art project that would bring his school together, and later expanded the project after the success of the initial event. Seed funds for the animation painting event came from a US$1,500 CalArts Grant, an additional US$3,000 was raised by selling producer credits for donations of US$1 or more. In 2004, after graduating and finishing two other animated short films, the director began fundraising to expand The 1 Second Film project by selling US$1 producer credits on the streets of Los Angeles. After raising enough to buy a video camera, the director began to document the fundraising process to include as part of a documentary about the project. In 2005, after getting several celebrities to donate, the director launched a petition drive along with the help of Stephen Colbert to get the credits of \"The 1 Second Film\" listed on the Internet Movie Database. In March 2005, IMDb began listing the credits.\nThe IMDb listing helped the project to grow online. In May 2006, a video of several high-profile celebrities donating to \"The 1 Second Film\" was featured on the homepage of YouTube, helping the project raise over US$7,000 in four days. In 2007, the project's first automated website was built to give community profiles to all participants, allowing for the project to scale up.\n\nThe director of \"The 1 Second Film\" submitted the celebrity producer credits of \"The 1 Second Film\" to the Internet Movie Database. After being rejected, the director sent a link to a video of Stephen Colbert requesting his US$11 producer credit be listed on IMDb. IMDb then began to list all of \"The 1 Second Film's\" credits, including unknowns who donated US$1 or more to the project online. Thousands of people began to discover the film title under the production credits of the various celebrities involved. The project spread online, attracting donations from around the world. Several celebrities also donated online, including Jonah Hill and Ryan Reynolds. The IMDb listing reached over 3,000 producers. However, due to the high volume of submissions, IMDb replaced all of the film's individual producer credits with a single credit for \"Producers of The 1 Second Film.\" The entire project was then removed from IMDb. Jon Reeves, head of data acquisition at IMDb, released a statement calling the project a \"performance art project (rather) than an actual film\".\n\nA variety of celebrities have donated to become producers of the project. Producers include:\n\n\n\nContributors also include YouTube CEO Chad Hurley, YouTube stars including iJustine and Brookers, as well as Kyle MacDonald from One red paperclip.\n"}
{"id": "1987874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1987874", "title": "The Silent Corner and the Empty Stage", "text": "The Silent Corner and the Empty Stage\n\nThe Silent Corner and the Empty Stage is the third album by British singer-songwriter Peter Hammill. It was released on Charisma Records in 1974, during a hiatus in the activities of Hammill's progressive rock band Van der Graaf Generator. However, like many of Hammill's albums of this period, all the members of Van der Graaf Generator perform on the recording, blurring the distinction between solo and group work. \n\nThe cover was designed by Bettina Hohls, ex-member of the psychedelic German rock band Ash Ra Tempel. Hohls also contributed to the cover of Hammill's earlier album \"Chameleon in the Shadow of the Night\".\n\nThe lengthy \"A Louse is not a Home\" is a song about the nature of identity. It was originally written for Van der Graaf Generator's album following \"Pawn Hearts\", an album that because of the band's split never came to be. It features all of Van der Graaf Generator's ex-members and was (just like \"In the Black Room\" from the previous album) played live by the group already in mid 1972 (just before the split) and again with the reformed band in 1975. \"Forsaken Gardens\" (also played live in 1975) and \"Red Shift\" are two more songs which feature all 4 ex-and future VdGG members. \"The Lie (Bernini's Saint Theresa)\" partly alludes to the Ecstasy of St Theresa by Bernini. \"Red Shift\" features Spirit guitarist Randy California on lead guitar. Hammill has often performed the song \"Modern\" in concert.\n\n\nThe following bonus tracks were included on the 2006 CD reissue:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1987878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1987878", "title": "Bentwood", "text": "Bentwood\n\nBentwood objects are those made by wetting wood (either by soaking or by steaming), then bending it and letting it harden into curved shapes and patterns.\n\nIn furniture making this method is often used in the production of rocking chairs, cafe chairs, and other light furniture. The iconic No. 14 chair by Thonet is a well-known design based on the technique. The process is in widespread use for making casual and informal furniture of all types, particularly seating and table forms. It is also a popular technique in the worldwide production of furniture with frames made of heavy cane, which is commonly imported into European and Western shops.\nBentwood boxes are a traditional item made by the First Nations people of the North American west coast including the Haida, Gitxsan, Tlingit, Tsimshian, Sugpiaq, Unangax, Yup'ik, Inupiaq and Coast Salish. These boxes are generally made out of one piece of wood that is steamed and bent to form a box. Traditional uses of the boxes was varied and included storage of food goods, clothing and for burial. They were often without decoration while others were decorated elaborately. Today many are made for collectors and can be purchased from museums, gift shops and online sites as well as directly commissioned from the artists.\n\nThe Aleut or Unangan People of Alaska made hunting visors, called \"chagudax\", out of driftwood using the bentwood method. The visors were used by hunters who were in kayaks. They are said to help keep the sea spray off the face as well as improve hearing. They were often decorated with paints, beads, sea lion whiskers and ivory figurines. Andrew Gronholdt is credited with reviving the art of chagudax carving in the 1980s. Present day Unangan artists create chagudax for ceremonial purposes and offer them for sale to the public as well.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1987887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1987887", "title": "Frederick Robe", "text": "Frederick Robe\n\nMajor-General Frederick Holt Robe CB (1801 – 4 April 1871) was the fourth Governor of South Australia, from 25 October 1845 to 2 August 1848.\n\nRobe entered the Royal Staff Corps as an ensign in 1817, following his father, Sir William Robe who was a colonel in the Royal Artillery. He was promoted first lieutenant in 1825, transferred to the 84th Foot in 1827, transferred to the 87th Foot as Captain in 1833, brevetted major in 1841, and promoted major in 1846. He fought in the Syrian campaign of 1840-1, and was military secretary in Mauritius and Gibraltar.\n\nRobe was appointed as Governor of South Australia, being sworn in on 25 October 1845. He was not popular as the governor, as he attempted to carry out his understanding of the British government's requirement to charge royalties on the mineral wealth of the province. This was rejected by the elected members of the South Australian Legislative Council as a breach of faith. There was also trouble over the question of State aid to religion, which Robe favoured, but which was strongly opposed. After requesting to be relieved of the post of governor, he was posted again to Mauritius as deputy quartermaster. He was honourable and confident in his convictions, but too conservative for the fledgling colony of South Australia. He returned to England in 1848.\n\nBetween 1846 and 1848, Robe was responsible for the enactment of a series ordinances and amendments first enacted by his predecessor lieutenant Governor George Grey, in 1844. Entitled the Aboriginal Witnesses Act. The act was established \"To facilitate the admission of the unsworn testimony of Aboriginal inhabitants of South Australia and parts adjacent\". While its stated aim was to make provisions for unsworn testimony by \"uncivilised people\" to be admissible in court, the act made it so that the court could not base the conviction of a White man on the testimony of an Aboriginal witness alone. The act also made Aboriginal testimony inadmissible in trials that carried the penalty of death.\nEffectively, the act created a situation where settler solidarity and the law of evidence ensured that the murder and massacre of Aboriginal Australians by European colonisers could not be tried solely on the evidence of Aboriginal witnesses.\n\nRobe was appointed Companion of the Order of the Bath (CB) in 1848, brevetted lieutenant colonel in 1847, promoted lieutenant colonel in 1853, brevetted colonel in 1854, and promoted major general in 1862. He was appointed Colonel of the 95th (Derbyshire) Regiment from 1869 until his death.\n\nHe died unmarried in Kensington, London on 4 April 1871. The town of Robe, South Australia is named after him.\n\n"}
{"id": "1987889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1987889", "title": "Aaron Barrett", "text": "Aaron Barrett\n\nAaron Asher Barrett (born August 30, 1974) is the lead singer, lead guitarist, and primary songwriter of the American ska-punk band Reel Big Fish. Following the departure of Matt Wong in 2007, he became the sole remaining original member of the group. Prior to forming Reel Big Fish, Barrett played trombone in another ska-punk act, The Scholars, along with future Reel Big Fish bandmates Scott Klopfenstein and Grant Barry.\n\nMore recently Barrett formed The Forces of Evil (now defunct) with former members of Jeffries Fan Club, The Scholars and Lone Raspberry. The Forces of Evil sounded similar to Barrett's main band, although lyrically they were much more pessimistic. The Forces of Evil ceased touring and playing in early 2005, and several members went on to play with Reel Big Fish.\n\nBarrett is also featured in \"Serious Awesomeness\", a DVD by The Aquabats, interviewing attendees of an Aquabats show outside of The Glass House in Pomona, California, calling himself \"Joe Famous\"; he is also seen briefly on stage with the band. Barrett also made a cameo appearance in the music video for \"Come Back Home\" by Suburban Legends in an Elvis Presley costume and a cameo appearance in the music video for \"I'm OK, You're OK\" by MxPx as a doughnut shop employee.\n\nBarrett plays a variety of guitars. Of his more famous guitars are his white Gibson Les Paul Studio with a decal of the devil smoking a cigar on the body (now owned by Brian Klemm of Suburban Legends); his black, sticker slapped Gibson SG; and his U.K. made sunburst Gordon Smith Graduate with matching headstock, which he currently plays. On their live DVD commentary, Barrett comments that he paid $2000 for his Gordon Smith, and it is the best sounding guitar he has ever had. \"Monkeys for Nothin' and the Chimps for Free\" was recorded with both Barrett's Gordon Smith and an Ebony Les Paul. The clean guitar on Reel Big Fish's album, \"Fame, Fortune and Fornication\" was recorded with both Brian Klemm's Fender Telecaster and Max Beckman of Half Past Two's American Deluxe Fender Telecaster. Other guitars that Barrett has played include a blue double-neck Ibanez, featured in the videos for \"Take on Me\", \"The Set Up (You Need This)\" (briefly), and on the cover of the album \"Why Do They Rock So Hard?\" as a silhouette. He also plays various Ibanez and Gretsch guitars in the videos for \"Everything Sucks\" and \"She Has A Girlfriend Now\", and on the sleeve of Reel Big Fish's first album \"Everything Sucks\". More recently, Barrett played both a black Fender Jazzmaster (with which he recorded parts of \"We're Not Happy 'til You're Not Happy\"). He also played a dark blue Gibson Archtop and a Fender '98 Black Tornado in the video for \"Don't Start a Band.\"\n\nHis effects pedals include: A Dunlop Cry Baby 95Q wah pedal, a Marshall GV2 Guv'nor Plus Distortion Pedal, an Ibanez TS9DX Turbo Tubescreamer, a Boss DD-6, and a Seymour Duncan SFX-01 Pickup Booster.\n\nHe uses Marshall JCM-900 amp with Marshall speaker cabinet.\n\nAaron Barrett is also an Aquacadet, a member of The Aquabats! official fan legion; he can be seen wearing a cadet patch in the music video for Reel Big Fish's \"Party Down.\"\n\nIn 2006, Aaron Barrett began recording and producing Southern California ska bands with engineer David Irish. So far he has recorded three projects: a full-length album with Chase Long Beach and both an EP and full-length album with Half Past Two. Aaron Barrett is also featured on the newest Chase Long Beach album, \"Gravity is What You Make It\", released on June 23, 2009.\n\nHe is a friend of Orange County ska band Suburban Legends, making a cameo in the music video for their song \"Come Back Home.\" Suburban Legends (and briefly, Big D and the Kids Table) guitarist Brian Klemm has appeared as an additional musician on Reel Big Fish's \"Monkeys for Nothin' and the Chimps for Free\" album, appeared on the cover of Reel Big Fish's \"Fame, Fortune, and Fornication,\" and has made several onstage appearances with Reel Big Fish. Barrett is also the subject of Suburban Legends' song, \"My Friend,\" which pays homage to Barrett's career, referencing Reel Big Fish, The Forces of Evil, and \"Sell Out.\"\n\nBarrett has also produced Beebs and Her Money Makers. He appears as a guest on the song \"Crazy.\" He is also seen in the video for the song.\n\nStudio Albums\n\nLive Album\n\nCompilation Albums\n\nEPs\n\nDemos\n\nOther Album Credits\n\n"}
{"id": "1987899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1987899", "title": "Unorganized Kenora District", "text": "Unorganized Kenora District\n\nUnorganized Kenora District is an unorganized area in northwestern Ontario, Canada, in Kenora District. Comprising 98.39 percent of the district's land area, yet only 10.93 percent of its population, it is essentially the remainder of the district's territory after all incorporated cities, municipalities, townships, Indian reserves, and Indian settlements have been excluded. It is by far the largest municipal-equivalent level census division in Ontario, covering over 35 percent of the entire provincial land area, yet only about 0.05 percent of the population of Ontario.\n\n\nPopulation trend:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1987903", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1987903", "title": "Rudraige mac Dela", "text": "Rudraige mac Dela\n\nRudraige (modern spelling: Ruadhraighe), son of Dela, of the Fir Bolg was the legendary second High King of Ireland, succeeding his brother Sláine.\n\nWhen the Fir Bolg invaded Ireland the five sons of Dela divided the island amongst themselves. Rudraige landed at \"Tracht Rudraige\" (Dundrum Bay, County Down) and took Ulster. He and his brother Genann led the portion of the Fir Bolg known as the Fir Domnann, a historical people who were possibly related to the Dumnonii known from Britain and Gaul.\n\nHis wife was Liber. After Sláine's death, Rudraige became High King for two years, until he died at the \"Brú na Bóinne\" (Newgrange). He was succeeded by his brothers Gann and Genann.\n\nRudraige was the name of two other figures from Irish mythology, one a son of Partholón, who led the first settlement of Ireland after the Flood, the other a Milesian High King of the 2nd or 3rd century BC. All three were associated with the province of Ulster, and it seems likely that they were all derived from an ancestor-deity of the Ulaid.\n\n"}
{"id": "1987912", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1987912", "title": "Lyn MacDonald", "text": "Lyn MacDonald\n\nLyn MacDonald, is a British military historian best known for a series of books on the First World War that draw on first hand accounts of surviving veterans. She lives near Cambridge, England. She was a BBC Radio presenter until 1973.\n\n"}
{"id": "1987914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1987914", "title": "Oscillopsia", "text": "Oscillopsia\n\nYettus disease is a visual disturbance in which objects in the visual field appear to oscillate. The severity of the effect may range from a mild blurring to rapid and periodic jumping. Oscillopsia is an incapacitating condition experienced by many patients with neurological disorders. It may be the result of ocular instability occurring after the oculomotor system is affected, no longer holding images steady on the retina. A change in the magnitude of the vestibulo-ocular reflex due to vestibular disease can also lead to oscillopsia during rapid head movements. Oscillopsia may also be caused by involuntary eye movements such as nystagmus, or impaired coordination in the visual cortex (especially due to toxins) and is one of the symptoms of superior canal dehiscence syndrome. Sufferers may experience dizziness and nausea. Oscillopsia can also be used as a quantitative test to document aminoglycoside toxicity. Permanent oscillopsia can arise from an impairment of the ocular system that serves to maintain ocular stability. Paroxysmal oscillopsia can be due to an abnormal hyperactivity in the peripheral ocular or vestibular system.\n\nOcular stability is maintained by three different ocular motor systems\n\n1. The fixation system and its deficit\n\n2. The visuo-vestibular stabilizing systems and their deficits\n\n3. The neural integrator and its deficit\n\n"}
{"id": "1987915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1987915", "title": "Rancho del Cielo", "text": "Rancho del Cielo\n\nRancho del Cielo, also named Sky's Ranch or Heaven's Ranch, is a ranch located atop the Santa Ynez Mountain range northwest of Santa Barbara, California, United States. It served as a vacation home for President Ronald Reagan and First Lady Nancy Reagan.\n\nThe ranch was originally named Rancho de los Picos after José Jesús Pico—a descendant of Santiago de la Cruz Pico who arrived with the Anza expedition in 1776—who homesteaded it and built the original adobe house in 1871. The Pico family owned the ranch until 1941, when Joe, one of Jose Pico's sons, sold it to Frank Flournoy, a Santa Barbara County surveyor, for $6,000 (equal to $ today). In turn, he sold the ranch to Ray and Rosalie Cornelius, who then purchased additional land for the property.\n\nThe Reagans owned a ranch in the Santa Monica Mountains that was much closer to their home in Bel Air. The Reagans sold that ranch to a movie company and it is now part of Malibu Creek State Park. The Reagans then bought this ranch from the Corneliuses for about $527,000 in 1974 (equal to approximately $ today) when his second term as Governor of California was nearing an end. The estate contains a pond called Lake Lucky, stables and a barn for horses, and a 1,500 ft² (139 m²) house furnished with 1970s-style furniture. The ranch is located in a remote area on the crest of the Santa Ynez Mountains adjacent to Refugio Pass. The nearest highway on the ocean side of the mountains is U.S. Route 101, with Solvang, California being the nearest community on the inland side of the mountains.\n\nReagan spent vacations during his presidency at the ranch, which became known as the Western White House. He signed the Economic Recovery Tax Act of 1981 at the ranch and at various times hosted British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, Queen Elizabeth II and Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev. After leaving the presidency in 1989, the Reagans moved to a home in Bel-Air, California but kept the ranch as a retreat.\n\nBecause of his Alzheimer's disease, Reagan last visited the ranch in 1995. Nancy Reagan last visited in 1998, before selling the property to the Young America's Foundation, a conservative group which preserves it today as what it calls \"a living monument to Reagan's ideas, values, and lasting accomplishments.\" Although the ranch is closed to the public, Young America's Foundation offers students and supporters the opportunity to visit the property.\n\n"}
{"id": "1987921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1987921", "title": "French lilac", "text": "French lilac\n\nFrench lilac is a common name for several plants and may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "1987925", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1987925", "title": "Sordo (river)", "text": "Sordo (river)\n\nThe Sordo is a small river in eastern Umbria in Italy. Its source is about 1 km south of Norcia at an approximate altitude of 600 m (1950 ft), and it flows for about west to Serravalle where it empties into the Corno.\n"}
{"id": "1987926", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1987926", "title": "WAFF", "text": "WAFF\n\nWAFF may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "1987935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1987935", "title": "LogMeIn Hamachi", "text": "LogMeIn Hamachi\n\nLogMeIn Hamachi is a virtual private network (VPN) application written by Alex Pankratov in 2004. It is capable of establishing direct links between computers that are behind network address translation (\"NAT\") firewalls without requiring reconfiguration (when the user's PC can be accessed directly without relays from the Internet/WAN side); in other words, it establishes a connection over the Internet that emulates the connection that would exist if the computers were connected over a local area network (\"LAN\").\n\nHamachi was acquired from Pankratov by LogMeIn in 2009. It is currently available as a production version for Microsoft Windows and macOS, as a beta version for Linux, and as a system-VPN-based client compatible with Android and iOS.\n\nFor paid subscribers Hamachi runs in the background on idle computers. The feature was previously available to all users but became restricted to paid subscribers only.\n\nHamachi is a proprietary centrally-managed VPN system, consisting of the server cluster managed by the vendor of the system and the client software, which is installed on end-user computers.\nClient software adds a virtual network interface to a computer, and it is used for intercepting outbound as well as injecting inbound VPN traffic. Outbound traffic sent by the operating system to this interface is delivered to the client software, which encrypts and authenticates it and then sends it to the destination VPN peer over a specially initiated UDP connection. Hamachi currently handles tunneling of IP traffic including broadcasts and multicast. The Windows version also recognizes and tunnels IPX traffic.\n\nEach client establishes and maintains a control \nconnection to the server cluster. When the connection is established, the client goes through a login sequence, followed by the discovery process and state synchronization. The login step authenticates the client to the server and vice versa. The discovery is used to determine the topology of the client's Internet connection, specifically to detect the presence of NAT and firewall devices on its route to the Internet. The synchronization step brings a client's view of its private networks in sync with other members of these networks.\n\nWhen a member of a network goes online or offline, the server instructs other network peers to either establish or tear down tunnels to the former. When establishing tunnels between the peers, Hamachi uses a server-assisted NAT traversal technique, similar to UDP hole punching. Detailed information on how it works has not been made public. This process does not work on certain combinations of NAT devices, requiring the user to explicitly set up a port forward. Additionally 1.0 series of client software are capable of relaying traffic through vendor-maintained 'relay servers'.\n\nIn the event of unexpectedly losing a connection to the server, the client retains all its tunnels and starts actively checking their status. When the \"server\" unexpectedly loses client's connection, it informs client's peers about the fact and expects them to also start liveliness checks. This enables Hamachi tunnels to withstand transient network problems on the route between the client and the server as well as short periods of complete server unavailability.\nSome Hamachi clients also get closed port on other clients, which cannot be repaired by port forwarding.\n\nHamachi is frequently used for gaming and remote administration. The vendor provides free basic service, and extra features for a fee.\n\nIn February 2007, an IP-level block was imposed by Hamachi servers on parts of Vietnamese Internet space due to \"the scale of the system abuse originating from blocked addresses\". The company is working on a less intrusive solution to the problem.\n\nEach Hamachi client is normally assigned an IP address when it logs into the system for the first time. To avoid conflicting with existing private networks on the client side the normal private IP address blocks 10.0.0.0/8, 172.16.0.0/12 and 192.168.0.0/16 are not used.\n\nBefore November 19, 2012 the 5.0.0.0/8 range was used. This range was previously unallocated but was allocated to RIPE NCC in late 2010 and space from this range is now being used by hosting providers on the public internet. Hamachi switched to the 25.0.0.0/8 block.\n\nThe 25.0.0.0/8 block is allocated to the British Ministry of Defence. Organisations who need to communicate with the MOD may experience problems when more specific Internet routes attract traffic that was meant for internal hosts, or alternatively find themselves unable to reach the legitimate users of those addresses because those addresses are being used internally,\nand such \"squatting\" is against the established practice of the Internet.\n\nThe client now supports IPv6, and if this is selected then the address assigned is picked from a range registered to LogMeIn.\n\nThe IP address assigned to the Hamachi client is henceforth associated with the client's public crypto key. As long as the client retains its key, it can log into the system and use this IP address. Hamachi creates a single broadcast domain between all clients. This makes it possible to use LAN protocols that rely on IP broadcasts for discovery and announcement services over Hamachi networks.\n\nThe following considerations apply to Hamachi's use as a VPN application:\nThe current builds of Hamachi are available for the following operating systems:\nPrior to versions 1.0.2.0 and 1.0.2.1 for the Windows release, many Windows Vista users had experienced compatibility and connection issues while using Hamachi. As of March 30, 2007, the software now includes \"Vista tweaks\", which answer these OS-related problems, among other specific solutions.\n\n"}
{"id": "1987945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1987945", "title": "Brockenhurst railway station", "text": "Brockenhurst railway station\n\nBrockenhurst railway station serves the village of Brockenhurst in Hampshire, England. It is located on the South Western Main Line from London Waterloo to Weymouth. It is also the junction of the Lymington Branch Line with the main line. It is down the line from Waterloo.\nIt is managed and served by South Western Railway and it is also served by CrossCountry trains\n\nThe station was winner of the 2009 National Rail Award for best medium-sized station, with the judges stating they \"were impressed by the standard of customer service, station presentation, initiative and innovation they observed, all of which ensure that the station provides a smooth, efficient and pleasant departure and arrival point for the travelling customer\". The station was also winner of a National Cycling Award, for a system which informs passengers of where cycle spaces are on approaching trains, allowing them to speed boarding, and partnerships with local bike-hire firms.\n\nBrockenhurst station was opened on 1 June 1847 as part of the Southampton and Dorchester Railway (nicknamed the Castleman's Corkscrew) with services running to Southampton in one direction and Dorchester via Ringwood and Wimborne Minster the other. The following year, the railway was amalgamated with the London and South Western Railway. On 12 July 1858 the Lymington Branch Line opened, beginning shuttle services between the station and Lymington, turning the station into a junction station and leading to its name being changed between 1876 and 1888 to Brockenhurst Junction to emphasise this.\n\nOn 5 March 1888 the direct line from Brockenhurst via Sway to Bournemouth and Poole and bypassing the longer 'Corkscrew', opened to traffic. This massively increased the number of trains passing through the station for both routes and enhancing its status as an interchange, especially after the downgrading of the 'corkscrew' in 1893 to that of a branch line. Brockenhurst station, along with the L&SWR was taken over by Southern Railway in 1923 and under their ownership, the station was extended in 1936 to include two new platforms. Services over the old Southampton and Dorchester line via Ringwood fell victim to the Beeching Axe, ceasing in May 1964. The track through the station was electrified in 1967 and the station saw minor changes as part of British Rail's Network SouthEast region.\n\nIn 2014 the station received £4.6 million of government grants as part of the Access for All initiative to replace the footbridge at Brockenhurst with a new bridge complete with lift shafts. Step-free access to platforms 1 and 2 was previously by a rotating turntable bridge across the tracks while step-free access to platforms 3 and 4 was across the track bed itself.\n\nThe station consists of four platforms, arranged in two island platforms, with a ticket office housed in the main building nearest Platform 1 on the side closest to the village. The platforms, ticket office and car park are all connected by footbridge, with the ticket office at one end and the car park and bicycle hire point at the other end of the walkway.\n\n\nA signal box and level crossing is located at the northern end of the station.\n\nThe station is primarily served by South Western Railway, who operate fast and semi-fast trains from Waterloo to Weymouth (2tph), stopping services from Waterloo to Poole (1tph), and local stopping services to (2tph). In addition, CrossCountry operate hourly services from Bournemouth to Manchester Piccadilly via and Birmingham New Street.\n\nSome peak time South Western Railway services by-pass the station without stopping.\n\nLocal bus routes serve the bus stop located outside the ticket hall. There is a year-round Bluestar 6 service to Lymington in the south, Lyndhurst to the north and onward connections to Totton and Southampton. In the summer time, this is supplemented by the seasonal New Forest Tour green and blue routes to Lymington, Beaulieu, Hythe and Lyndhurst and Burley, New Milton, Barton on Sea, Milford on Sea and Lymington.\n\n"}
{"id": "1987963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1987963", "title": "Freycinetia", "text": "Freycinetia\n\nFreycinetia is one of the five extant genera in the flowering plant family Pandanaceae. The genus comprises approximately 180–200 species, most of them climbers.\n\nThe species are distributed through the tropics and subtropics of South Asia and the western Pacific Ocean, from Sri Lanka eastwards through the mainland of Southeast Asia to the Melanesia floristic region, and southwards to northern Australia (Queensland, Northern Territory, northern New South Wales), Norfolk Island, and New Zealand. \"F. banksii\" is the only extant New Zealand member of the family Pandanaceae, and is found naturally as far south as the temperate South Island.\n\nThey have been found growing in tropical forests, coastal forests, humid mountain forests and associated biomes, from sea level to mountains cloud forests.\n\nThe genus was named by Charles Gaudichaud-Beaupré for Admiral Louis de Freycinet, a 19th-century French explorer.\n\n"}
{"id": "1987964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1987964", "title": "Thomas Smith (American painter)", "text": "Thomas Smith (American painter)\n\nThomas Smith was a seventeenth-century American artist and mariner. He is best known for the self-portrait that he painted 1680, which (according to the portrait's owner, the Worcester Art Museum) is 'the only seventeenth-century New England portrait by an identified artist and the earliest extant American self-portrait'.\n\nLittle is known about Smith's life. He lived in Boston, and is believed to be the same Thomas Smith who was commissioned by Harvard College on 2 June 1680 to produce a portrait of the Puritan theologian William Ames. Because several Thomas Smiths were active in Boston in the late seventeenth century, it is very difficult to identify other contemporary references to persons of that name with the artist. Smith is assumed to have been a mariner and a Puritan based on his self-portrait, which can be traced back to Smith's granddaughter, Catherina Mears Dexter (1701–1797).\n\nSmith's style has similarities with English and Dutch Golden Age painting, such as his expressive use of light and shadow. The sitter is shown seated on a chair with maroon upholstery and studs. Smith wears a typically Puritan dark coat and lace jabot. A maroon curtain and golden tassel appear in the top-right corner, lending a sense of depth to the portrait. From a window in the top-left corner is depicted a naval battle between Dutch and English forces and an unidentified enemy. Beneath them, a fortification is shown flying two red flags, one of which has three white crescents. The image may well refer to a significant event in Smith's career. The skull, a \"memento mori,\" has unrealistically round eye sockets like those found on contemporary funerary engravings in New England.\n\nBeneath the skull in the bottom-left corner is a piece of paper that contains an eight-line poem:\n<poem>Why why should I the World be minding\ntherin a World of Evils Finding.\nTruth Sounds Retreat: I am not forye.\nTo Crowne me (after Grace) with Glory.\n\nFive other portraits have been attributed to Smith. \"Major Thomas Savage\" (1679) and \"Mrs Richard Patteshall and Child\" (1679) are both owned by the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston. \"Captain Richard Patteshall\" (private collection) was meant to hang with the portrait of his wife. \"Captain George Curwin\" (c. 1675) is owned by the Peabody Essex Museum in Salem, Massachusetts. The sitter of \"Portrait of a Man, probably Sir George Downing (1624–1684)\" has also been identified as Elisha Hutchinson.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1987969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1987969", "title": "Awards and decorations of the Civil Air Patrol", "text": "Awards and decorations of the Civil Air Patrol\n\nThe awards and decorations of the Civil Air Patrol are \"designed to recognize heroism, service, and program achievements\" of members of the Civil Air Patrol (CAP) of the United States of America. The CAP is the official auxiliary of the United States Air Force, and these awards are made to improve the \"esprit de corps\" of members. These awards are all worn in the form of medals or ribbons and all are considered civilian decorations. Civil Air Patrol regulations allow them to only be worn and displayed on appropriate CAP uniforms. In order to be considered for one of these awards, an individual must be a member in good standing of the Civil Air Patrol at the time of the act being recognized. There is a statute of limitations for these awards and all recommendations must be submitted within 2 years of the act being performed. It is possible for the next of kin of deceased persons to be presented awards to which a member was entitled, but which he or she did not receive. Award review boards are established at the region, wing, group, and squadron levels to consider recommendations for all awards and decorations.\n\nAny Civil Air Patrol member may initiate a recommendation for the award of a decoration. Members initiating a recommendation must have knowledge of an act or service that merits recognition. Awards concerning commanders must be initiated at a higher command level or by the appointing authority for National Executive Committee (NEC) members. The authority to award decorations is vested in the NEC. The leader of the promotion and awards team of the NEC is authorized to approve all decorations in the name of the Committee. The Silver Medal of Valor, the Bronze Medal of Valor, and the Distinguished Service Medal are exceptions to this and must be approved by the full committee. Announcements of awarded decorations are made in personnel actions published by the CAP National Headquarters.\n\nThe Silver Medal of Valor is the highest decoration a Civil Air Patrol \"' member can receive. It is awarded for \"distinguished and conspicuous heroic action, at the risk of life, above and beyond the call of normal duty.\" \n\nIf the situation does not put a members life in immediate danger, they may qualify for the Bronze Medal of Valor (see below). The same ribbon is used for both the Silver and Bronze Medals of Valor; with the exception that the Silver Medal of Valor ribbon has three silver star attachments. The basic ribbon (without attachments) represents the Bronze Medal of Valor.\n\nThe Bronze Medal of Valor is awarded to members for \"distinguished and conspicuous heroic action where danger to self is probable and known.\" The Chairman of the National Awards Review Board is authorized to approve this medal for the National Executive Committee. If there arises a case in which a member is credited with saving a human life, but where the act does not meet the criteria for either the Silver Medal of Valor or the Bronze Medal of Valor, the member is generally recommended for a Certificate of Recognition of Lifesaving. The award for both of these medals of valor consists of the medal and ribbon and a certificate that accompanies the decoration. A miniature medal is available for senior members to wear on their mess dress uniforms.\n\nThe \"Distinguished Service Medal\" of the Civil Air Patrol is awarded for \"conspicuous performance of outstanding service in a duty of great responsibility where the position held and results obtained reflect upon the accomplishments and prestige of CAP on a national scale.\" The duties for which this medal are awarded must be extremely difficult and of importance to the national mission of the CAP. This is the highest award for service given by the CAP. Any member may nominate deserving cadets or officers for the award. All nominations are approved by the CAP National Headquarters. If the act of service is deemed to be important at the region level or wing level, the member is generally recommended for the Exceptional Service Award or the Meritorious Service Award. This award consists of the medal itself along with a ribbon and certificate that accompanies the decoration. A miniature medal is available for senior members to wear on their mess dress uniforms.\n\nThe \"Exceptional Service Award\" is presented to Civil Air Patrol members who provide \"exceptionally outstanding service to CAP...while serving in any capacity with CAP.\" The award regulations do make clear that the duty should carry the responsibility for completion of a major project at the region level or wing level. Any CAP member may nominate another cadet or officer for the exceptional service award, but the duty must involve the fulfillment of a duty that greatly benefits the region or wing. All nominations must be approved by the region commander This award does not come with a full-sized medal. It consists of a ribbon and a certificate that accompanies the decoration. A miniature medal is available for senior members to wear on their mess dress uniforms.\n\nThe \"Meritorious Service Award\" is awarded for \"outstanding achievement or meritorious service rendered specifically on behalf of CAP.\" The regulations are quite clear that the simply performing one's normal duties very well will not automatically qualify a member for this award. Instead, the award is meant for \"achievements and services which are clearly outstanding and unmistakably exceptional,\" though not worthy of the Distinguished Service Medal or the Exceptional Service Award. When the award is made to individuals who are part of an exceptionally successful group of CAP members, the regulation states that the Meritorious Service Award should be presented only to those members whose efforts were clearly integral to the success of the program. All nominations for this award must be approved by the region commander. Like the Exceptional Service Award, this award does not come with a full-sized medal. It consists of a ribbon and a certificate that accompanies the decoration. A miniature medal is available for senior members to wear on their mess dress uniforms.\n\nThe \"Commander's Commendation Award\" is presented to Civil Air Patrol members for \"outstanding duty performance where achievements and services are clearly and unmistakably exceptional when compared to similar achievements and service of members of like rank and responsibility.\" As in the case of the Meritorious Service Award, when an award is made to individuals who are part of an exceptionally successful group of CAP members, the regulation states that the Commander's Commendation Award should be presented only to those members whose efforts were clearly integral to the success of the program. The Commander's Commendation Award differs from the Exceptional Service Award and the Meritorious Service Award in that the former does not require the performance \"achievements and services significantly above and beyond normal duty performance.\" Nominations for this award may be approved by and the award may be presented by either a wing, region, or national commander. In each case, the award is slightly different depending on the authority by whom it is approved:\nIf a CAP member is presented with multiple awards, a clasp is place to the left (from the point of view of the wearer) of a silver or bronze star. Only one star of each type will be worn on this award. Like the Exceptional Service Award and Meritorious Service Award, this commendation does not come with a full-sized medal. It consists of a ribbon and a certificate that accompanies the decoration. A miniature medal is available for senior members to wear on their mess dress uniforms.\n\nThe Civil Air Patrol's \"Achievement Award\" is given to a member when the circumstances of his or her performance are above and beyond those of the member’s peers, but are not sufficient enough to warrant a Commander's Commendation Award. The intent of the award is to empower wing and group commanders with the ability to recommend and present achievement awards locally. The official regulations state this the Achievement Award is \"presented for outstanding service to the unit, group, or wing.\" It may be approved by a group commander and, if a group structure does not exist for a given squadron, the wing commander may designate who has the authority to approve this award. Like the other decorations below the level of Distinguished Service Medal, this award does not come with a full-sized medal of its own. It consists of a ribbon and a certificate that accompanies the decoration. A miniature medal is available for senior members to wear on their mess dress uniforms.\n\nThe \"Certificate of Recognition for Lifesaving\" is awarded to members of the Civil Air Patrol \"who save a human life, but do not meet the criteria for the Bronze [Medal of Valor] or Silver Medal of Valor.\" A member may be awarded this decoration for participation in a transport mission of either blood or organs, in which case he or she is presented with a basic ribbon and a certificate that accompanies the decoration. A silver star is attached to the ribbon in recognition of lifesaving actions other than blood or organ transport which still do not meet the requirements of the higher awards. Subsequent awards are denoted by the addition of bronze and silver clasps to the ribbon. If more than three devices are authorized for wear on this ribbon, a second ribbon is worn to the left (from the point of view of the wearer) of the initial ribbon. If future awards reduce the total number of devices to three the second ribbon is removed. All nominations for this award must be approved by the relevant CAP wing commander. This award does not come with a full-sized medal of its own, though a miniature medal is available for senior members to wear on their mess dress uniforms.\n\nThe \"National Commander's Unit Citation Award\" was approved by the Civil Air Patrol's National Board at its March 2006 meeting..\" It is awarded to \"units providing services or achievements above and beyond those normally recognized by a Unit Citation Award.\" Awards are made at the sole discretion of the National Commander of the Civil Air Patrol. The ribbon of the award is worn by all cadets and officers who were members of the unit during the time period for which the citation is awarded. Once the award has been made, members may continue to wear the ribbon even if they transfer out of the unit at a later date. Units that have been given the National Commander's Unit Citation Award are entitled to attach a streamer to the colors displayed at the unit's headquarters. This award does not come with a full-sized medal of its own, though a miniature medal is available for senior members to wear on their mess dress uniforms that must be purchased through an outside vendor.\n\nAlthough similar in appearance, this award is not to be confused with the Navy Expeditionary Medal\n\nThe Civil Air Patrol \"Unit Citation Award\" is presented for \"exceptionally meritorious service or exceptionally outstanding achievement.\" This service and achievement must be clearly above that which is performed by other similar units. Members are awarded the Unit Citation Award ribbon if they were members of the unit during the time period for which the citation is awarded. Units can be awarded this citation as a result of extended meritorious service over the course of at least one year, or in recognition of outstanding achievements in a single specific act or notable accomplishment that is separate and distinct from the normal mission or regular function of the unit. The periods of an outstanding achievement are normally characterized by definite beginning and ending dates. Units that have been given the Unit Citation Award are entitled to attach a streamer to the colors displayed at the unit's headquarters. This award does not come with a full-sized medal of its own, though a miniature medal is available for senior members to wear on their mess dress uniforms that must be purchased through an outside vendor.\n\nTo accomplish its mission, the Civil Air Patrol requires an informed and active senior membership trained in leadership, management, and functional tasks. The CAP Senior Member Professional Development Program prepares members to serve their units, their communities, and their nation. The professional development ribbons are awarded by the Civil Air Patrol National Headquarters to denote the level of achievement that a senior member has achieved in this program. The professional development program is divided into five levels.\n\nThe \"Gill Robb Wilson Award\" was first implemented in 1964 to replace the National Commander’s Citation. It is named after Gill Robb Wilson, the first director of the CAP, and is presented to senior members who complete the fifth level of training in the Senior Member Professional Development Program. This award is issued directly from the Civil Air Patrol National Headquarters and is the highest award in the professional development program. This level of training is intended for those performing duty as commanders or staff officers, and is a prerequisite for consideration for duty performance promotion to the grade of lieutenant colonel in CAP. The training program concentrates on advanced leadership and management subjects. This award does not come with a full-sized medal. It consists of a ribbon and a certificate. Members who complete Squadron Officer School, Air Command and Staff College, or Air War College are authorized to wear a bronze, silver, or gold star (respectively) on the award ribbon. If multiple stars would be authorized, the highest star is placed on the Gill Rob Wilson ribbon, and the second highest on the Paul E. Garber ribbon. A miniature medal is available for members to wear on their mess dress uniforms.\n\nThe \"Paul E. Garber Award\" is presented to Civil Air Patrol senior members who complete the level IV requirements of the Senior Member Professional Development Program. Like the Gill Robb Wilson Award, this is issued directly from CAP National Headquarters. The award is named after Paul Garber who served in both World War I and World War II before becoming the first curator of the National Air and Space Museum. The Paul E. Garber Award is a prerequisite for any senior member to be considered for duty a performance promotion to the grade of major in CAP. This level of training concentrates on members desiring to become leaders within the CAP. Every wing commander and region commander—and those members being groomed to replace them—is encouraged to complete the level IV training and earn the Paul E. Garber Award. Like the Gill Robb Wilson Award, there is no full-sized medal for this award. It consists of a ribbon and a certificate. Members who complete Squadron Officer School, Air Command and Staff College, or Air War College are authorized to wear a bronze, silver, or gold star (respectively) on the award ribbon. If multiple stars would be authorized and the member has received the Gill Robb Wilson award, the highest star is placed on the Gill Rob Wilson ribbon, and the second highest on the Paul E. Garber ribbon. A miniature medal is available for members to wear on their mess dress uniforms.\n\nThe \"Grover Loening Aerospace Award\" is presented to senior members who successfully complete the third level of the professional development program. The award is issued directly from CAP National Headquarters in the form of a certificate. There is also a ribbon and a miniature medal available for members to purchase for wear on their uniforms. The award is named for aerospace manufacturer Grover Cleveland Loening. This portion of the professional development program was designed for senior members serving as squadron, group, or wing commanders and for CAP staff officers. In order to qualify for this award, members must complete their level II training, have one year of experience in a command or staff position, attain a senior rating in any CAP specialty track, and attend two wing, region, or national conferences. The Loening Award is a prerequisite for consideration for duty performance promotion to the grade of captain in CAP.\n\nThe \"Benjamin O. Davis, Jr. Award\" is presented to senior members who successfully complete the second level of professional development. It is named for Benjamin O. Davis, an aviation pioneer and commander of the Tuskegee Airmen during World War II. Members must complete the technical training required for the Leadership Award and must also attend Squadron Leadership School. This course is designed \"to enhance a senior member’s performance at the squadron level and to increase understanding of the basic function of a squadron and how to improve squadron operations.\" There is no ribbon associated with this award and members receive a certificate. The Davis Award is a prerequisite for consideration for duty performance promotion to the grade of first lieutenant in CAP.\n\nThe \"Leadership Award\" is presented to senior CAP members who complete training to earn a technician rating in one of 26 specialty tracks. If members obtain a senior rating in a specialty track, they are authorized to wear a bronze star on the Leadership Award ribbon. A silver star is awarded for a higher master rating. This award does not come with a full-sized medal. It consists of a ribbon and a certificate. A miniature medal is available for members to wear on their mess dress uniforms. Unlike the three more senior professional development awards in the Civil Air Patrol senior program, this award is not named after an aviation pioneer or notable person associated with the CAP.\n\nThe most basic professional development award in the CAP program is the \"Membership Award\". This is presented to any senior member that successfully completes the level I Orientation Course. Completion of this course, and the qualification for the Membership Awards, is a prerequisite for participation in most areas of the Civil Air Patrol mission and for duty performance promotion to second lieutenant in the CAP. There are four modules required for completion of this level. They are a basic foundations course, a cadet protection program training, operations security awareness training, and equal opportunity training. The intent of this level I training \"is to provide new members the information they need to begin their service in CAP successfully.\" This award does not come with a full-sized medal. It consists of a ribbon and a certificate. A miniature medal is available for members to wear on their mess dress uniforms. The Membership Award is a prerequisite for consideration for duty performance promotion to the grade of second lieutenant in CAP.\n\nThe aerospace education awards are presented to senior members who excel in furthering the educational aspects of the Civil Air Patrol's mission. These two awards are made to recognize completion of steps in the professional development program related specifically to aerospace education.\n\nThe \"A. Scott Crossfield Award\" is named after American naval officer and test pilot Albert Scott Crossfield. The award is made by the Civil Air Patrol national headquarters. The Crossfield Award is presented to members who have \"earned the master level rating in the aerospace education specialty track and served as aerospace education officer.\" This award does not come with a full-sized medal. It consists of a ribbon and a certificate. A miniature medal is available for members to purchase for wear on their mess dress uniforms.\n\nThe \"Brigadier General Charles E. \"Chuck\" Yeager Aerospace Education Achievement Award\" is presented to senior members who successfully complete the Civil Air Patrol's Aerospace Education Program for Senior Members (AEPSM). This is assessed through a test that senior members may complete online or using traditional means. Upon validation of the test results, a certificate is issued by the member's wing. This award does not come with a full-sized medal. The miniature medal—for wear on their mess dress uniforms—and the ribbon may be purchased by individual recipients from appropriate commercial sources. This award is named for retired United States Air Force brigadier general and noted test pilot, Charles E. “Chuck” Yeager.\n\nThe Rescue Find Ribbon is awarded to any CAP member by his or her wing commander for making a find (distress or non-distress) on a search and rescue mission. A \"distress find\" involves a downed aircraft or persons in distress. Normally, a definite search objective must have been assigned, located, and positively identified. Other finds are classified as \"non-distress\"; such as locating a non-distress emergency locator transmitter. The basic ribbon is awarded for a first find (distress or non-distress). A bronze clasp is awarded for each additional distress find or for each additional 20 non-distress finds. Both aircrew and ground team members may receive credit for finds. The \"Find\" Ribbon may also be painted on the aircraft in which the find was made.\n\n\nThe Air Search and Rescue Ribbon is awarded to members who actively participate in at least 10 search and rescue sorties, with a bronze clasp awarded for each additional 10 sorties. All sorties must be in support of an actual search and rescue mission authorized through appropriate authorities.\n\n\nThe Counterdrug Ribbon is awarded to Senior Members for participation in 10 counterdrug sorties. A bronze clasp is awarded for each additional 10 sorties, and replaced by a silver clasp after 50 additional sorties. Cadets are prohibited from participating in Counterdrug operations.\n\nAlthough similar in appearance, this award is not to be confused with the Navy/Marine Corps Commendation Medal.\n\nThe Disaster Relief Ribbon is awarded for participation in five disaster relief missions and completion of two designated disaster relief training courses. The ribbon may also be awarded for completion of one disaster relief course and 40 hours of disaster relief training or operations. Participation must be verified by the on-scene commander.\n\nThe Disaster Relief Ribbon may be awarded with a Silver \"V\" device to any CAP member who participates as a CAP member in a disaster relief effort for a Presidential declared disaster. Participation in any Presidential declared disaster since 1990 qualifies.\n\nThe Homeland Security Ribbon is awarded for participation in ten Homeland Security sorties, as defined by the tasking organization, which are in the interest of the defense and/or security of the United States. All members participating in the mission in any capacity may be eligible for the ribbon. Personnel performing duties, such as base support or staff functions, may be credited with one sortie for each 8 hours of participation, but may not to exceed two sorties for any 24-hour period.\n\nClasps may be added to the ribbon for participation in every ten additional sorties.\n\nAwarded to Senior Members who have served at least 1 year continuous service as commander — squadron, group, wing, etc. The basic ribbon is awarded for service as a squadron commander. A bronze star is added to denote service as group commander, a silver star for wing commander, and a gold star for region commander service. Two gold stars will be used to denote service as National Commander. Only one level of command may be shown on the ribbon.\n\nThe Red Service Ribbon is given to any member of the Civil Air Patrol who has been a member of the program for two years (as a cadet or Senior Member in good standing.) In addition, the following devices are awarded for additional years of service.\n\nThe Community Service Ribbon is awarded to senior members and cadets who complete 60 hours of community service. The community service is done outside of Civil Air Patrol, and is verified by someone other than the member. Civil Air Patrol headquarters has now authorized the wear of a bronze device for every additional 60 hours of community service.\n\nThe Cadet Advisory Council Ribbon is awarded to the primary members of an advisory council. A shoulder cord is worn while that member is the primary representative, while the ribbon continues to be worn even after the cadet is no longer on the CAC. The wear policy for the Cadet Advisory Council Ribbon was changed in 2007 to allow senior members who earned this ribbon as a cadet to continue wearing the ribbon with the appropriate clasp.\n\n\nThese ribbons are awarded to members for participating in or providing leadership for National Cadet Special Activities.\n\nThe Encampment Ribbon is awarded to all cadets who complete a Civil Air Patrol Encampment successfully. A bronze clasp is awarded to cadet staff members and officers who provide leadership for the encampment. Cadet encampments, usually a week in length, provide cadets with an intense look at military life. Encampment attendance is a prerequisite for the Gen. Billy Mitchell Award. Senior members may also be awarded the ribbon for providing leadership at CAP encampments. To graduate encampment, you must complete 80% of all planned encampment activities.\n\nAwarded to cadets and officers who participate in National Cadet Special Activities. Participants must be identified by the Civil Air Patrol project officer and approved by the member’s region commander. Each subsequent activity is represented by a bronze star affixed to the basic ribbon. Cadets earning this ribbon may continue to wear the ribbon as a Senior Member.\n\nAwarded to cadets for participation as a team member in the National Cadet Competition. The basic ribbon will be worn by the winner of the wing competition and/or cadets selected to represent the wing at a region competition. A bronze star will be affixed for the winners of the region competition, and a silver star will be worn by the sweepstakes winners of the national competition. Repetitive awards may be recognized by wearing additional stars in the appropriate competition level. Officers who earned this ribbon as a cadet may continue to wear the ribbon. In November 1998, CAP's National Executive Committee approved an addendum to the regulation governing the wear of this ribbon; it authorizes Officers who acted as official escorts to the above-mentioned championship teams to also wear the ribbon. This addendum will be incorporated into the next draft of the regulation.\n\nAwarded to cadets for participation as a team member in the National Color Guard Competition. The basic ribbon will be worn by the winner of the wing competition and/or cadets selected to represent the wing at a region competition. A bronze star will be affixed for the winners of the region competition, and a silver star will be worn by the sweepstakes winner of the national competition. Repetitive awards may be recognized by wearing additional stars in the appropriate competition level. In November 1998, CAP's National Executive Committee approved an addendum to the regulation governing the wear of this ribbon; it authorizes Officers who acted as official escorts to the above-mentioned championship teams to also wear the ribbon. This addendum will be incorporated into the next draft of the regulation. Senior Members who earned this ribbon as a cadet may continue to wear the ribbon.\n\nAwarded to cadets and officer escorts participating in the International Air Cadet Exchange (IACE) outside the continental limits of the United States. IACE is a program open to Cadets 17 or older who have earned the Earhart Award (Cadet Captains and above) to visit participating foreign countries.\n\nThese awards are given to cadets who pass their unit tests, and also accompany an advancement in grade. Cadets who become Senior Members may wear only their highest ranking cadet achievement ribbon on their senior member uniform.\n\nThe General Carl A. Spaatz Award is the highest award in the Civil Air Patrol cadet program. The award honors General Carl A. Spaatz, who was the first Chief of Staff of the United States Air Force and the second National Commander of the Civil Air Patrol. Only 0.5% of cadets will ever achieve this award. As of July 2019, only 2,234 cadets have earned it since 1941. \n\nThe Spaatz Award may be awarded to cadets who \"successfully complete all phases of the CAP cadet program and the General Carl A. Spaatz Award examination\" consisting of a comprehensive leadership and aerospace education written examination, a graded essay and a physical fitness test. The Spaatz Award is arguably the most difficult honor to earn in the CAP cadet program.\n\nCadets earning Spaatz Award are also promoted to Cadet Colonel, the highest grade obtainable in the cadet program. Upon reaching the age of 21, cadet colonels are eligible to transfer to the Civil Air Patrol Officer program with appointment to the grade of Captain. Cadet Colonels who voluntarily transfer to the officer program between the ages of 18 and 21 receive the grade senior flight officer.\n\nExternal links\n\nThe General Ira C. Eaker Award is given by the Civil Air Patrol in honor of the former Deputy Commander U.S. Army Air Forces and aviation pioneer. It is presented on behalf of CAP by CAP National Headquarters to cadets who have completed the specific requirements in the Phase IV of the cadet program. The award is accompanied by promotion to the grade of Cadet Lieutenant Colonel.\n\nExternal links\n\nThe Amelia Earhart Award is a cadet achievement of the Civil Air Patrol presented in honor of Amelia Earhart, pioneering aviatrix and aviation record-setter. This award is presented on behalf of CAP National Headquarters to denote the successful completion of the specific requirements in Phase III of this program. Cadets receiving the Earhart Award are promoted to Cadet Captain.\n\nCadets who receive this award can be promoted to 1st Lt once a senior member at the age of 21. Cadet captains who voluntarily transfer to the senior program between the ages of 18 and 21 receive the grade of Technical Flight Officer. \n\nExternal links\n\nThe General Billy Mitchell Award is earned by Civil Air Patrol cadets who have successfully completed the second phase of the cadet program. It marks the end of the enlisted phase of the cadet program; cadets are promoted to Cadet Second Lieutenants upon receipt and, by extension, Cadet Officers. The award is given in honor of Maj Gen William \"Billy\" Mitchell, former Deputy Chief of the Army Air Service and military aviation visionary.\n\nIn order to earn this award, cadets must pass a series of leadership, aerospace and physical fitness tests and attend character development training for each achievement from Cadet Airman Basic through Cadet Chief Master Sergeant. In addition, cadets must attend a military-style encampment before this award is made, and have maintained active membership in the Civil Air Patrol for at least 18 months since joining. 15% of Civil Air Patrol cadets achieve the Mitchell Award.\n\nMitchell Cadets who chose to enlist in the United States Air Force or the United States Coast Guard are promoted to E-3 upon enlistment and completion of Basic Military Training (BMT), instead of E-1. Mitchell Cadets who enlist in the Marine Corps, Navy, or Army are promoted to E-2 upon completion of BMT. A silver star is worn on the ribbon to denote successful completion of Cadet Officer School.\n\nExternal links \n\nThe Neil Armstrong Achievement is awarded for successfully completing the specific requirements of Achievement 8 in Phase II of the Civil Air Patrol cadet program. Awarded for the second achievement of Cadet Chief Master Sergeant.\n\nThe Dr. Robert H. Goddard Achievement is awarded for successfully completing the specific requirements of Achievement 7 in Phase II of the Civil Air Patrol cadet program. Accompanies promotion to Cadet Chief Master Sergeant. NOTE: A silver star worn on the ribbon denotes successful completion of the Model Rocketry Badge requirements (if Mitchell Award has been earned).\n\nThe General Jimmy Doolittle Achievement is awarded for successfully completing the specific requirements of Achievement 6 in Phase II of the Civil Air Patrol cadet program. Accompanies promotion to Cadet Senior Master Sergeant.\n\nThe Charles A. Lindbergh Achievement is awarded for successfully completing the specific requirements of Achievement 5 in Phase II of the Civil Air Patrol cadet program. Accompanies promotion to the grade of Cadet Master Sergeant.\n\nThe Captain Eddie Rickenbacker Achievement is awarded for successfully completing the specific requirements of Achievement 4 in Phase II of the Civil Air Patrol cadet program. Accompanies promotion to the grade of Cadet Technical Sergeant.\n\nThe Wright Brothers Award is awarded for successfully completing the Phase I of the Civil Air Patrol cadet program. It marks the transition of a cadet to the non-commissioned officer status in the Civil Air Patrol cadet program, and accompanies promotion to the grade of Cadet Staff Sergeant.\n\nPrior to the creation of the Mary Feik Achievement in April 2003, the Wright Brothers award was the 3rd Achievement and accompanied promotion to the grade of Cadet Senior Airman.\n\nThe Mary Feik Achievement is awarded for successfully completing the specific requirements of Achievement 3 in Phase I of the cadet program. Accompanies promotion to the grade of Cadet Senior Airman.\n\nNamed after General \"Hap\" Arnold, first U.S. Air Force Commander. The General H. H. \"Hap\" Arnold Achievement is awarded for successfully completing the specific requirements of Achievement 2 in Phase I of the cadet program. Accompanies promotion to the grade of Cadet Airman First Class.\n\nNamed after General John F. Curry, first National Commander of the Civil Air Patrol. The General J. F. Curry Achievement is awarded for successfully completing the specific requirements of Achievement 1 in Phase I of the cadet program. Cadets must successfully complete the Physical Fitness test, Leadership chapter 1, and have participated in at least 1 character development class. Accompanies promotion to the grade of Cadet Airman.\n\nAwarded to members who provide 50 cadet orientation flights. Each cadet receiving credit for the flight, may be counted toward the total of 50. A bronze clasp may be added for each additional 50 flights.\n\nThe Senior Member Recruiter Ribbon is given to senior members who recruit seven new qualified cadets or senior members for CAP. For each additional ten members recruited, a bronze clasp may be worn on the ribbon. Once a senior member earns five bronze clasps, they may be replaced by a silver clasp. Bronze clasps are no longer worn after a silver clasp is received. For every fifty new members recruited after this, an additional silver clasp may be worn on the ribbon. Members recruited as a cadet may be included in determining entitlement in the case of senior members who were former cadets.\n\nThis award from the Air Force Association recognizes one outstanding cadet per unit each year.\n\nThe \"Air Force Sergeants Association Award to Outstanding CAP Cadet Noncommissioned Officer of the Year. An annual award established by the Air Force Sergeants Association to recognize the outstanding CAP cadet NCO in each squadron.\n\nThe Veterans of Foreign Wars recognize excellence in CAP cadet officers through an annual award to the outstanding cadet officer in each CAP squadron. CAP squadron commanders may nominate one cadet officer each year for the award by submitting a nomination to the VFW detailing the cadet's accomplishments and certifying that cadet officer is in good standing academically, progressing satisfactorily in the CAP cadet program, demonstrated outstanding achievement in community service and the cadet program (aerospace and leadership). The cadet must also be of high moral character, demonstrate a high level of professionalism in appearance and action and patriotism (commander or member of color guard, drill team, etc.), actively promote Americanism, demonstrate growth potential (assumes higher levels of responsibility). A Cadet may only receive this award once.\n\nThe VFW recognizes excellence in CAP cadet non-commissioned officers (NCO) through an annual award to the outstanding cadet NCO in each CAP squadron. CAP squadron commanders may nominate one cadet NCO each year for the award by submitting a nomination to the VFW detailing the cadet's accomplishments and certifying that the cadet NCO is in good standing academically, progressing satisfactorily in the CAP cadet program, demonstrated outstanding achievement in community service and the cadet program (aerospace and leadership). The cadet must also be of high moral character, demonstrate a high level of professionalism in appearance and action and patriotism (commander or member of color guard, drill team, etc.), actively promote Americanism, demonstrate growth potential (assumes higher levels of responsibility). A Cadet may only receive this award once.\n\nThe Cadet Recruiter Ribbon is given to cadets who recruit two or more people (cadets or senior members) into the Civil Air Patrol. For each additional two members recruited, a bronze clasp may be worn on the ribbon. Once a cadet earns five bronze clasps, they may be replaced with a silver clasp. Bronze clasps are no longer worn after a silver clasp is received. For every ten new cadets recruited after this, an additional silver clasp may be worn on the ribbon.\n\nThe Frank F. Borman Falcon Award was awarded to former Cadets who completed the Spaatz Award and who took subsequent steps to become dynamic Americans and aerospace leaders. Specifically, 1) secured admission to any military service academy and successfully completed the second year of instruction, 2) Secured admission to advanced ROTC program of any service in an accredited college of university, or 3) Become an active Senior Member of CAP for at least one year and be recommended by the unit Commander.\n\nThis award was unique in that it is specifically authorized for award to non-CAP members: former Spaatz cadets who qualified based on their military training were encouraged to apply to Civil Air Patrol National Headquarters for the Falcon Award, even if they were no longer CAP members.\n\nThe Falcon Award was discontinued in 1979. Senior Members who were awarded the Falcon Award may continue to wear it as their highest cadet award with their other ribbons. Also, any Senior Member who was previously a CAP Cadet is authorized to wear the highest Cadet achievement award.\n\nChronology of the Falcon Award\n\nAs described in CAPM 39-1 Uniform Manual, badges are categorized into \"aviation, occupational, specialty, and service.\" Some badges may indicate a level of skill above basic with a rating device affixed on top. A \"star\" indicates a senior skill. A \"star with laurel wreath\" indicates master (ex. ground team) or command (ex. pilot). \n\n\n\n\n\n\nNote: These Ranger and Medic tabs may be worn only on the BDU uniform (Battle Dress Uniform) or CAP corporate field uniform. They are not authorized for wear on the ABU (Airman Battle Uniform), as of 1/2/2020. As U.S. Air Force transitions away from ABU to the new OCP (Operational Camouflage Pattern), this rule could change.\n\nCords are used to indicate that a certain cadet has received a notable position in a CAP program.\n\nCadet Advisory Council<br>\nSquadron primary CAC- Kelly green cord [DURING TERM] <br>\nGroup chairman CAC - Red cord [DURING TERM] <br>\nWing - Blue cord [DURING TERM] <br>\nNational - Gold cord [DURING TERM] <br>\nColor Guard/Drill Team<br>\nWhite cord\n\nHonor Guard<br>\nSilver cord\n\nTEXAS WING CORDS <br>\n\nRoyal Blue and Jay Blue cord - ALS - Airman Training School [C/Amn GT AND ABOVE MAY WEAR]<br>\n\nRoyal Blue and Red chord - CTEP - Non-Commissioned Officer Academy [C/SSgt AND ABOVE MAY WEAR, with the exception of C/SrA with encampment credits] <br>\n\nRoyal Blue and Yellow chord - CTEP - Senior Non-Commissioned Officer Academy [C/MSgt AND ABOVE MAY WEAR]<br>\n\nRoyal Blue and White cord - CTEP - Officer Training School [C/2ndLt and ABOVE MAY WEAR]<br>\n\nRoyal Blue and Metallic Silver cord - CTEP - Cadet Command and Staff College [C/Capt AND ABOVE MAY WEAR]<br>\n\nForest Green cord - Squadron Cadet Commander [DURING TERM AS CADET COMMANDER]<br>\n\nForest Green and White cord - Encampment Cadet Commander [REMAINDER OF THE CADET PROGRAM]<br>\n\nBlack cord - Ground Search and Rescue Specialty School/Lone Star Emergency Services Academy Basic [REMAINDER OF THE CADET PROGRAM]<br>\n\nBlack and Gold cord - Ground Search and Rescue Specialty School/Lone Star Emergency Services Academy Advanced [REMAINDER OF THE CADET PROGRAM]<br>\n\nRoyal Blue and Forest Green cord - Advanced Training Squadron - Encampment [REMAINDER OF THE CADET PROGRAM]<br>\n\nFLORIDA WING CORDS\n\nGold Lanyard - Wing's Outstanding Cadet of the Year (Phase IV)<br>\n\nGold and Black Cord - Phase I, II, and III Cadet of the Year<br>\n\nGreen and White - Outstanding Cadet of the Year (Group and Squadron)<br>\n\nWhite and Blue Cord - Members of Group/Squadron Color Guards<br>\n\nBlue and Gold Cord - Members of the Wing Honor Society<br>\n\nBlue and Gold Aiguillettes With Nickel Tip - Wing Honor Society Members of Distinction<br>\nIndividual wings may prescribe wear of cords of other colors.\n\nOn 30 May 2014, a bill authorizing the CAP Congressional Gold Medal was signed by President Barack Obama (Senate Bill S309 and House Bill HR 755). The bill awards a medal to the collective members of the Civil Air Patrol who served during the period from 7 December 1941 to 2 September 1945, to both living members and to the families of deceased members.\n\nThese following ribbons were awarded to members for service as a member of the Civil Air Patrol during World War II. Members who have earned them may continue to wear them, although they are no longer awarded.\n\nThe Wartime Service Ribbon is awarded to CAP members who served during World War II in any one of several capacities. The ribbon replaces several specific World War II ribbons, which are listed below.\n\nThe Anti-Submarine Coastal Patrol Ribbon was awarded to members who patrolled the Atlantic coast for enemy submarine attacks during World War II. This ribbon is no longer available, but is still worn by those who have earned it.\n\nThe Southern Liaison Patrol Ribbon was awarded to members who patrolled the southern border of the United States. This ribbon is no longer available, but is still worn by those who earned it.\n\nThe Tow-Target & Tracking Ribbon was awarded to members who flew aircraft which trailed aerial gunnery targets to assist with training of U.S. Army personnel. This ribbon is no longer available, but is still worn by those who earned it.\n\nThe Courier Ribbon was awarded to members who transported time-sensitive messages, material, and personnel. This ribbon is no longer available, but is still worn by those who earned it.\n\nThe Forest Patrol ribbon was awarded to members who patrolled the Northern United States border from enemy attacks. This ribbon is no longer available, but is still worn by those who earned it.\n\nThe Missing Aircraft Ribbon was awarded to members who served as part of the search-and-rescue team for downed aircraft within United States borders. This ribbon is no longer available, but is still worn by those who earned it.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1987972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1987972", "title": "Eric Shelton (American football)", "text": "Eric Shelton (American football)\n\nEric Shelton (born June 23, 1983) is a former American football running back. He was drafted by the Carolina Panthers in the second round of the 2005 NFL Draft. He played college football at Louisville.\n\nShelton has also been a member of the Washington Redskins.\n\nShelton attended Bryan Station High School in Lexington, Kentucky, where he played both running back and linebacker and twice earned state Class 4A Player of the Year honors. He totaled 4,970 yards rushing with 59 touchdowns and 129 tackles with 11 sacks and 41 stops for losses during his career. Shelton was a First-team USA Today and Parade All-American and was also an All-State track performer who competed in the high hurdles, triple jump and 4x100 relay. It was in high school that he met his future wife Shamea. He was on Tom Lemming's Top 100 highschool recruits, ranked at #6 in the nation \n\nShelton started his collegiate career at Florida State University, where he played one season as a true freshman for the Seminoles. He finished fourth on the team with 29 carries for 130 yards (4.5 avg.) but was disappointed with his playing time and decided to transfer to Louisville. As a result of NCAA transfer rules, however, he was forced to sit out the 2002 season.\n\nShelton attended the University of Louisville, and in his junior year (in 2004) he led the Cardinals in rushing (938 yards) and touchdowns (20). His touchdown total tied the single season Louisville touchdown record (since broken by Michael Bush with 23 in 2005) and he also tied a Louisville record by rushing for five touchdowns in a game versus East Carolina University. He ranked sixth in the nation with 120 points. In 22 games with the Cardinals, he totaled 1,728 yards on 312 carries (5.5 avg) and had 30 touchdown runs. His 30 touchdowns rank third all time at Louisville despite his only playing two years there.\n\nShelton was drafted in the second round (54th overall) of the 2005 NFL Draft by the Carolina Panthers with a pick they obtained from the Seattle Seahawks. Shelton's NFL career got off to a rough start as he was placed on injured reserve at the beginning of the 2005 NFL season due to a broken foot. In the 2006 season, Shelton rushed for 23 yards on only eight carries, and was activated in only eight games. After a disappointing career with the Panthers he was released by them on September 1, 2007.\n\nOn January 9, 2008, the Washington Redskins signed Shelton to a future contract. He was waived/injured with a neck injury on July 30 and subsequently placed on injured reserve. He was released with an injury settlement on August 15.\n\nShelton and his wife Shamea had their wedding documented on episode six of the first season of \"My Big Fat Fabulous Wedding\", a show on WE, Women's Entertainment Network. The final cost for the Lexington, KY wedding was $270,000, funded by Shelton's endorsement money.\n\n"}
{"id": "1987976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1987976", "title": "Gann mac Dela", "text": "Gann mac Dela\n\nGann, son of Dela, of the Fir Bolg was a legendary joint High King of Ireland with his brother Genann, succeeding their brother Rudraige. His wife was Etar.\n\nWhen the Fir Bolg invaded Ireland the five sons of Dela divided the island among themselves. Gann and Senngann landed at Inber Dubglaise and split Munster between them, Gann taking the north and Sengann the south of the province.\n\nWhen their brother Rudraige died, Gann and Genann became joint High King for four years, until they both died of plague, along with two thousand of their followers, and were succeeded by Sengann.\n\n"}
{"id": "1987977", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1987977", "title": "Dustin Colquitt", "text": "Dustin Colquitt\n\nDustin Farr Colquitt (born May 6, 1982) is an American football punter who is a free agent. He played college football at Tennessee and was selected by the Kansas City Chiefs in the third round of the 2005 NFL Draft.\n\nIn 2019, he set a Chiefs franchise record for most games played, surpassing former teammate Will Shields.\n\nColquitt is from Knoxville, Tennessee, and played football and soccer at Bearden High School in Knoxville.\n\nColquitt accepted an athletic scholarship to attend the University of Tennessee in Knoxville, and played for coach Phillip Fulmer's Tennessee Volunteers football team from 2001 to 2004. As a junior in 2003, he was recognized as a first-team All-Southeastern Conference (SEC) selection, and a consensus first-team All-American. As a senior in 2004, he again earned first-team All-SEC honors.\n\nThe Kansas City Chiefs selected Colquitt in the third round (99th pick overall) of the 2005 NFL Draft. He then signed a three-year contract worth $1.345 million.\n\nDuring the 2007 NFL season, he set the franchise record for the longest punt with an 81 yard punt. On February 28, 2008, Colquitt was signed to a five-year contract extension worth $8.5 million. \nColquitt had career highs during the 2009 NFL season in both punts and punting yards with 96 and 4,361, respectively. His 4,361 punting yards were second to Jim Arnold's 4,397 during the 1984 NFL season. In 2010, he was voted as the winner of the Ed Block Courage Award.\n\nIn the 2012 season, he had a punting average of 46.8, the highest he has ever had in a season. From 2005 to 2012, Colquitt had 657 career punts with a 44.7 yard average. Colquitt was named to his first Pro Bowl in 2012. On March 5, 2013, Colquitt signed a five-year contract extension worth $18.75 million, with $8.9 million guaranteed, making him the NFL's highest paid punter.\n\nIn 2016, Colquitt was named to his second Pro Bowl after fellow punter Pat McAfee declined to play due to an injury. During the 2017 NFL season, he became the Chiefs all-time leader in both punts and punting yards passing Jerrel Wilson. On March 15, 2018, Colquitt signed a three-year contract extension with the Chiefs. As of the start of the 2019 season, his 15th season with the Chiefs, he is the longest tenured member of the Chiefs. The next closest tenured players are Travis Kelce and Eric Fisher, who will both be in their 7th season with the team in 2019. He is also tied in fourth with Aaron Rodgers for longest tenured players for their current team and is the longest tenured special teams player. During the 2019 season, Colquitt played in and won his first Super Bowl after the Chiefs defeated the San Francisco 49ers 31–20.\n\nColquitt was released on April 28, 2020. In his 15 seasons with the Chiefs, he set multiple team records including being tied with fellow punter Jerrel Wilson for the longest tenured player in franchise history.\n\n\nColquitt is married with five children. Colquitt comes from a family with a distinguished lineage of punters, including his father Craig, who won a pair of Super Bowl rings punting for the Pittsburgh Steelers from 1978 to 1984. His younger brother Britton, who currently plays for the Minnesota Vikings, also played for Tennessee, as did his uncle Jimmy.\n\nColquitt is a Christian.\n\nColquitt is a co-founder of TeamSmile, an organization that offers free dental care to underserved children. Colquitt was picked to be the Chiefs nominee for the Walter Payton NFL Man of the Year Award in 2009 and 2018.\n\n"}
{"id": "1987980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1987980", "title": "Tatum Bell", "text": "Tatum Bell\n\nTatum Antoine Bell (born March 2, 1981) is a former American football running back. He was drafted by the Denver Broncos in the second round of the 2004 NFL Draft. He played college football at Oklahoma State. He is son of Tony and Terry Bell. Has a younger brother, T.J., and an older sister, Latrice Coleman.\n\nBell also played for the Detroit Lions and Florida Tuskers.\n\nBell was born in Dallas, Texas and grew up in DeSoto, a suburb of Dallas. He attended DeSoto High School. In high school, he was considered one of the fastest high school players in the nation, he was clocked running 4.34 in the 40-yard dash, and 10.26 seconds over 100 meters.\n\nHe was hampered by a hip pointer and sprained ankle as a senior, but still rushed for 1,225 yards and 19 touchdowns. He was also an effective kick and punt returner. In addition to his 19 rushing touchdowns, he had three touchdown passes and returned one kickoff for a touchdown. He was listed as a Top 100 Texas player by First Down Recruiting, PrepStar, the Dallas Morning News and David Garvin. He was a two-time all-district selection at running back.\n\nBell played for Oklahoma State University from 2000 to 2003, and was a starter for three years, rushing for a total of 3,409 yards.\n\nIn 2000, as a true freshman, he made an impact by rushing for 251 yards on just 49 carries. He followed the regular season with an impressive spring during which he showed the new OSU staff he had the ability to run the ball inside. He was OSU's leading rusher in both major spring scrimmages. His spring numbers included 14 carries for 110 yards and three touchdowns in the first scrimmage and 15 carries for 80 yards and a touchdown in the second. Showed most of the country what he was capable of with an incredible long-distance run against Oklahoma in a nationally televised season finale on Lewis Field. Oklahoma State won the services of this highly recruited running back over Nebraska, Texas and Oklahoma. He was a starter for three years, rushing for a total of 3,409 yards.\n\nIn 2001, he carried the ball 197 times for 776 yards and six touchdowns. He averaged 77.6 yards per game and almost four yards per carry. Bell eclipsed the 100-yard rushing mark twice last season, including a career-high 117 yards against Missouri. He had 102 yards in Oklahoma State's win over Louisiana Tech on Lewis Field. The last four games of the 2001 season were particularly impressive for Bell. Against Colorado, Texas Tech, Baylor and Oklahoma, Bell carried the ball a combined 80 times for 333 yards. That's a four-game average of 83.25 yards per game and 4.16 yards per carry.\n\nAt the NFL Combine, he had an explosive workout including a 4.37 40 yard dash, 25 reps of 225 pounds, and a 38.5 inch vertical jump.\nBell was drafted 41st overall in the 2004 NFL Draft, after attending Oklahoma State University for four years and finishing sixth on the school's all-time career rushing yards list. The Broncos originally acquired the pick along with cornerback Champ Bailey in a trade that sent Clinton Portis to the Washington Redskins.\n\nHe debuted with the Denver Broncos in 2004, and led all AFC rookie running backs in rushing yards. In 2005 he was the second part of a dual running back system with Mike Anderson and rushed for 921 yards (gaining 5.3 yards per carry) and eight touchdowns. In 2006 Bell rushed for 1,025 yards and two touchdowns.\n\nOn March 1, 2007, Bell was traded along with George Foster and a draft pick to the Detroit Lions for Dré Bly.\n\nOn October 12, 2007 it was revealed that Bell had asked the Lions to trade him earlier in the week, due to the re-emergence of Kevin Jones and his diminished role at tailback. Bell has since told the media that he did not demand a trade, but that he simply was disappointed in his diminishing role on the team.\n\nOn March 10, 2008, Bell re-signed with the Lions on a one-year contract. He stated that his goal for the 2008 NFL season was to rush for 1,300 yards and 15 touchdowns. However, he was released by the Lions on September 1 after the team signed running back Rudi Johnson. The following day Johnson accused Bell of stealing his luggage. Bell insisted, \"it was just an honest mistake.\"\n\nBell signed with the Broncos on November 11, 2008. (He had spent the previous three months working in the T-Mobile store at Town Center at Aurora.) He was not re-signed following the season.\n\nBell was signed by the Florida Tuskers of the United Football League on September 3, 2009. He wore #25. During the week of November 19 he ran for 365 yards and set a UFL record. He was released on August 24, 2010.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1987985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1987985", "title": "Reciprocal inhibition", "text": "Reciprocal inhibition\n\nReciprocal inhibition describes the process of muscles on one side of a joint relaxing to accommodate contraction on the other side of that joint. In some allied health disciplines this is known as reflexive antagonism. Joints are controlled by two opposing sets of muscles, extensors and flexors, which must work in synchrony for smooth movement. When a muscle spindle is stretched and the stretch reflex is activated, the opposing muscle group must be inhibited to prevent it from working against the resulting contraction of the homonymous muscle. This inhibition is accomplished by the actions of an inhibitory interneuron in the spinal cord.\n\nThe afferent of the muscle spindle bifurcates in the spinal cord. One branch innervates the alpha motor neuron that causes the homonymous muscle to contract, producing the reflex. The other branch innervates the inhibitory interneuron, which in turn innervates the alpha motor neuron that synapses onto the opposing muscle. Because the interneuron is inhibitory, it prevents the opposing alpha motor neuron from firing, thereby reducing the contraction of the opposing muscle. Without this reciprocal inhibition, both groups of muscles might contract simultaneously and work against each other.\n\nIf opposing muscles were to contract at the same time, a muscle tear can occur. This may occur during physical activities, such as running, during which muscles that oppose each other are engaged and disengaged sequentially to produce coordinated movement. Reciprocal inhibition facilitates ease of movement and is a safeguard against injury. However, if a \"misfiring\" of motor neurons occurs, causing simultaneous contraction of opposing muscles, a tear can occur. For example, if the quadriceps femoris and hamstring contract simultaneously at a high intensity, the stronger muscle (traditionally the quadriceps) overpowers the weaker muscle group (hamstrings). This can result in a common muscular injury known as a pulled hamstring, more accurately called a muscle strain.\n\n\"When the central nervous system sends a message to the agonist muscle (muscle causing movement) to contract, the tension in the antagonist muscle (muscle opposing movement) is inhibited by impulses from motor neurons, and thus must simultaneously relax. This neural phenomenon is called reciprocal inhibition.\"\nTaken from Massage Therapy Principles & Practices by Susan Salvo 1999, pg 161\n\nThe phenomenon is now known to be fleeting, incomplete, and weak. By example, when the triceps brachii is stimulated, the biceps is reflexively inhibited. The incompleteness of the effect is related to postural and functional tone. Also, some reflexes in vivo are polysynaptic, with entire muscle groups responding to noxious stimuli (Nociceptive Withdrawal Reflex).\n\nReflexive antagonism is the basic original notion behind indirect muscle energy techniques. While this notion is now understood to be incomplete, the clinical mechanism of Reflexive Antagonism continues to be useful in Physical Therapy. Reciprocal inhibition is a synonym.\n\nMuscle energy techniques that use reflexive antagonism, such as rapid de-afferentation techniques, are medical guideline techniques and protocols that make use of reflexive pathways and reciprocal inhibition as a means of switching off inflammation, pain, and protective spasm for entire synergistic muscle groups or singular muscles and soft tissue structures.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1987995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1987995", "title": "Baseball park", "text": "Baseball park\n\nA baseball park, also known as a ballpark or diamond, is a venue where baseball is played. A baseball park consists of the playing field and the surrounding spectator seating. While the diamond and the areas denoted by white painted lines adhere to strict rules, guidelines for the rest of the field are flexible.\n\nThe term \"ballpark\" sometimes refers either to the entire structure, or sometimes to just the playing field. A home run where the player makes it around the bases, and back to home plate, without the ball leaving the playing field is typically called an \"inside-the-park\" home run. Sometimes a home run ball passing over an outfield fence (when hit by a batter) is said to have been hit \"out of the ballpark\", but that phrase more often refers to a home run ball that cleared the stands, landing outside the building. The playing field is most often called the \"ballfield\", though the term is often used interchangeably with \"ballpark\" when referring to a small local or youth league facility.\n\nA baseball field can be referred to as a diamond. The infield is a rigidly structured diamond of dirt containing the three bases, home plate, and the pitchers mound. The space between the bases and home is normally a grass surface, save for the dirt mound in the center. Some ballparks have grass or artificial turf between the bases, and dirt only around the bases and pitcher's mound. Others, such as Koshien Stadium in Hyōgo Prefecture, Japan, have an entirely dirt infield.\n\nTwo white lines run out from the home plate area, aligned with first and third bases. These are the \"foul lines\" or \"base lines\", usually differentiated by referring to them as the first base line, or the third base line. If a ball hit by the batter lands outside of the space between these two lines, or rolls out of this space before reaching first or third base, the ball is \"foul\" (meaning it is dead and the play is over). If it lands between or on the lines, it is \"fair\". At the end of the lines are two foul poles, which help the umpires judge whether a ball is fair or foul. These \"foul poles\" are actually in fair territory, so a ball that hits them on the fly is a home run (if hit on the bounce, it is instead an automatic double).\n\nOn either side of home plate are the two batter's boxes (left-handed and right-handed.) This is where the batter stands when at bat. Behind home is the catcher's box, where the catcher and the home plate umpire stand.\n\nNext to first and third base are two coaches' boxes, where the first and third base coaches guide the baserunners, generally with gestures or shouts. As the baserunner faces away from the outfield when running from second base to third, they cannot see where the ball is, and must look to the third base coach on whether to run, stop, or slide.\n\nFarther from the infield on either side are the dugouts, where the teams and coaches sit when they're not on the field. They are named such because, at the professional levels, this seating is below the level of the playing field so as to not block the view from prime spectator seating locations. In amateur parks, the dugouts may be above-ground wooden or CMU structures with seating inside, or simply benches behind a chain link fence.\n\nBeyond the infield and between the foul lines is a large grass outfield, generally twice the depth of the infield. The playing field is bordered by fences of varying height. The infield fences are in foul territory, and a ball hit over them isn't a home run; consequently, they are often lower than the outfield fences to provide a better view for spectators. Sometimes, the outfield fence is made higher in certain areas to compensate for a close proximity to the batter.\n\nIn professional parks, the field is surrounded by an area roughly wide made of dirt or rubberized track surface called a \"warning track\". Originally used in Yankee Stadium in 1923 as an actual footrace track, it is now present in all major league ballparks. This change in terrain warns a fielder, who is watching a ball in the air, that the wall is near, avoiding possible injury.\n\nBeyond the outfield fence in professional parks is an area called the batter's eye. To ensure the batter can see the white ball, the batter's eye contains no seating, and is a darker color. The batter's eye area can be anything from a dark wall to a grassy slope.\n\nToday, in Major League Baseball, a multi-tiered seating area, a grandstand, surrounds the infield. How far this seating extends down the baselines or around the foul poles varies from park to park. In minor league parks, the grandstands are notably smaller, proportional to expected sizes of crowds compared with the major leagues.\n\nThe seating beyond the outfield fence generally differs from the grandstand, though some multi-purpose or jewel box parks have the grandstand surround the entire field. This area could contain inexpensive bleacher seats, smaller grandstands, or simply inclined seating. In local ballparks, there are often simply a set or two of aluminum bleachers on the first-base and third-base sides.\n\nDistinctive from \"goal games\" such as football and basketball, which have fixed-size playing areas, the infield is the only rigidly laid-out part of the field. Like its English relative, cricket, there is significant flexibility in the shape and size of the rest of the playing area.\n\nTo prevent \"cheap\" home runs, baseball leagues may specify a minimum distance from home plate to the outfield fences. Generally, the higher the skill level, the deeper the minimum dimensions must be, to prevent an excess of home runs. In the major leagues, a rule was passed in 1958 that compelled any new fields built after that point to have a minimum distance of from home plate to the fences in left and right field, and to center. (Rule 1.04, Note(a)). This rule was passed to avoid situations like the Los Angeles Coliseum, which was . down the left field line.\n\nHowever, with the opening of Baltimore's Camden Yards (1992), the \"minimum distance\" rule began to be ignored. One factor may be that the quaint, \"retro\" look of Camden Yards, with its irregular measurements, proved to be very popular, along with a traditionalist backlash against the symmetrical, multi-purpose, \"cookie-cutter\" stadiums. Since the opening of Camden Yards, many other \"retro\" stadiums have been built, each with asymmetrical fences. These distances vary from park to park, and can even change drastically in the same park. One of the most famous examples is the original Yankee Stadium, whose odd-shaped plot of land caused right field to be over shorter than left, although this difference lessened over time. The rectangular Polo Grounds had extremely short distance down the lines, . to right and . to left. In contrast, the deepest part of center field was nearly . from home plate.\n\nOlder ballparks, such as Fenway Park, were grandfathered in and allowed to keep their original dimensions. Also, new parks have sometimes received special dispensation to deviate from these rules. For instance, the second Yankee Stadium, built 2009, used the same dimensions as the original Yankee Stadium.\n\nThe heights of the fences can also vary greatly, the most famous example being the -high Green Monster in Fenway Park's left field. Such tall fences are often used to stop easy home runs in a section of the ballpark where the distances from home are shorter, or where there is little space between the field and the street beyond. Some in-play scoreboards and high fences reached 50 to , whereas a few outfields were even lined with hedges rather than normal fences or walls. The Hubert H. Humphrey Metrodome, when set up for baseball, had a right field \"fence\" that was actually a relatively thin blue plastic sheet covering folded up football seats. It was often called the \"Baggie\" or \"Hefty bag\".\n\nSome ballparks have irregularly shaped fences. Ballparks may have round swooping fences or rigidly angled fences, or possibly a significant change in direction or irregular angle. For example, the center field stands and the left field stands at Fenway Park meet at an uneven angle, creating an indentation (called \"the triangle\") that angles sharply back into the stands. In Citi Field and Oracle Park, part of the right field fence juts unevenly into the outfield as if the builders were trying to create an unpredictable ricochet effect for balls hit against it. Some \"retro\" parks, such as Globe Life Park in Arlington, throw in a sudden and small inward turn (often referred to as a jog) just to give a little quirkiness to the design. Milwaukee's Miller Park was designed, with the help of former player Robin Yount, to promote extra base hits.\n\nOriginally (mostly in the old jewel box parks) these variations resulted from the shape of the property where the park was constructed. If there was a street beyond left field, the distance to the left field fence would be shorter, and if the distance was too short, the fence would be higher. For example, in the old Griffith Stadium in Washington, D.C., part of center field had to be built around a cluster of apartment houses and the result was a rather large angular indentation in the left-center field fence. Now, these variations are mostly influenced by the specifications and whims of the designers. New \"retro\" parks, which try to recapture the feel of the jewel box parks, are often designed to have these quirks.\n\nBaseball was originally played in open fields or public parks. The genesis of modern baseball is conventionally connected with Elysian Fields in Hoboken, New Jersey, a large public park where the businessmen of New York City gathered from time to time to play organized baseball games and cricket matches, starting around the mid-1840s. The name \"Field\" or \"Park\" was typically attached to the names of the early ballparks.\n\nWith the beginnings of professional baseball, the ballfield became part of a complex including fixed spectator seating areas, and an enclosure to restrict access to paying customers, as with a fairgrounds. The name \"Grounds\" began to be attached to ballparks, starting with the Union Grounds in 1862. The suffixes \"Field\" and \"Park\" were still used, but many professional ballparks were \"Grounds\". The last surviving major league \"Grounds\" was the Polo Grounds in New York City, which was razed in 1964.\n\nThe term \"stadium\" had been used since ancient times, typically for a running track and its seating area. As college football gained in popularity, the smaller college playing fields and/or running tracks (which also frequently had the suffix \"Field\") gave way to large stadiums, many of them built during the sport's \"boom\" of the 1920s. Major league baseball enjoyed a similar boom. One of the first major league ballparks to be called a \"stadium\" was actually the Polo Grounds, which was temporarily renamed Brush Stadium from its reconstruction in 1911 until the death of owner John T. Brush in the 1920s. By then, the most famous baseball \"stadium\" of them all had been constructed: Yankee Stadium. From that point until the retro building boom of the 1990s, the suffix \"Stadium\" was used for almost every new major league ballpark, and was sometimes applied to the old ones, such as Shibe Park, which was renamed Connie Mack Stadium in 1954.\n\nThe suffix \"Dome\" was also used for the indoor stadiums constructed from the 1960s onward. The official names of those arenas also often included the word \"Stadium\", such as the Houston Astrodome, whose formal name was \"Harris County Domed Stadium\" in 1965; the Kingdome, whose formal name was \"King County Domed Stadium\", and the Metrodome, for which the Minneapolis highway signs directed the driver to \"Metrodome Stadium\". The retro era of the 1990s and early 2000s saw a return to the original arboreal terms, even to domed structures such as T-Mobile Park and Miller Park.\n\nThere is little consistency in the choice between \"Field\" and \"Park\". For example, Houston's Minute Maid Park was originally named \"Enron Field\".\n\n Seating area design of stadiums is affected by many variables, including required capacity, audience access, and road traffic. Early ballparks like Elysian Fields were far from the city center. Each game was an event, and fans traveled by public transit to watch the game.\n\nWith the growth of professional leagues, and consequent growth in the quantity of games, each game became less of an event, and fan convenience became more important. Many professional ballparks were built either near the city center, or in working-class neighborhoods, based on expected economic level of the average fan. Consequently, the classic ballparks typically had little space for automobiles, as it was expected that most fans would take mass transit to the games, a situation that still prevails at Boston's Fenway Park and Chicago's Wrigley Field, for example. Some early ballparks, such as Brooklyn's Eastern Park, were abandoned because the trolley lines did not go out far enough and the team was not performing well enough for people to tolerate the inconvenience.\n\nAs fans became more affluent, and especially as they moved to the suburbs and bought cars, the lack of parking became an important issue. Some ballparks remedied this problem through the construction of parking garages in the vicinity, or building new ballparks with ample parking. Others built ballparks in the suburbs, typically with large parking areas. The ballpark/stadium thus became an \"island\" in an \"ocean\" of parking space.\n\nThe modern \"retro\" trend seeks to cover all the bases: an urban location, with plenty of parking \"and\" public transportation available.\n\nThe first professional baseball venues were large wooden ballparks with seats mounted on wood platforms. Although known for being constructed out of wood, they featured iron columns for better support. Some included one tier of inclined seating, topped with either a flat roof or, in some instances, a small upper tier. The outfield was bordered by tall walls or fences covered in advertisements, much like today's minor league parks. These advertisements were sometimes fronted with bleacher seats, or \"bleaching boards\". Wood, while prone to decomposition, was a relatively inexpensive material, as there was no official governing body for professional baseball at the time. \nHowever, the use of wood as the primary material presented a major problem, especially as baseball continued to thrive. Over time, the wooden stands aged and dried. Many parks caught fire, and some were leveled completely. This problem, along with the popularization of baseball and expectations for long-term use of the parks were major factors that drove the transition to the new standard materials for ballparks: steel and concrete. Some famous wooden parks, such as the Polo Grounds III in New York and National League Park in Philadelphia, burned and were rebuilt with fire-resistant materials (Polo Grounds IV and Baker Bowl). Others were simply abandoned in favor of new structures built elsewhere. These new fire-resistant parks often lasted for many decades, and (retrospectively) came to be known as \"jewel boxes\". Since there are no more professional ballparks in existence left with this architectural trend, it's basically a dead design.\n\nThe ballparks built or rebuilt of concrete and steel (albeit with wooden seats) after the days of the wooden ballpark are now known as the jewel box ballparks or classic parks. These parks are said by many to embody the golden age of baseball. They are known for an intimate feel, and major use of reinforced concrete and brick. The first of these was Shibe Park, which opened in 1909 in Philadelphia. Another Philadelphia ballpark, Baker Bowl, which opened in 1895, used steel and brick instead of wood as the primary construction materials and included a cantilevered upper deck seating area that hung out over the lower deck seating area. Though it did not use reinforced concrete in its construction, Baker Bowl is considered the forerunner of the jewel box parks.\n\nTwo-tiered grandstands became much more prevalent in this era. These decks were typically held up by steel pillars that obstructed the view from some seats in the lower level. However, because of these supports, the upper decks could come very close to the field, giving the ballpark a more intimate feel. Two tiers was the standard for decades, until the New York Yankees built Yankee Stadium. To accommodate the large crowds Babe Ruth drew, Yankee Stadium was the largest ballpark in baseball and was built with three tiers. This became the new standard until some recently built parks reverted to two, including PNC Park in 2001.\n\nMost jewel box parks were built to fit the constraints of actual city blocks, resulting in asymmetrical outfield dimensions, including Fenway. The exceptions were Shibe Park and Comiskey Park, which were built on rectangular city blocks that were large enough to accommodate left/right field symmetry.\n\nOther sports, such as soccer and football, were often played at these sites (the Polo Grounds and Yankee Stadium were, for example, designed to accommodate football). In contrast to the later multi-purpose parks, the seats were generally angled in a configuration suitable for baseball. The \"retro\" ballparks built in the 1990s and beyond are an attempt to capture the feel of the jewel box parks. The only jewel box parks still used by Major League Baseball are Fenway Park and Wrigley Field.\n\nFrom the 1960s until the arrival of retro parks in 1992, baseball built many multi-purpose ballparks. Also derisively known as \"concrete donuts\", \"cookie-cutters\", or \"giant ashtrays\", they were usually tall and circular or square structures made entirely of, usually bare, reinforced concrete. The parks were built to hold baseball as well as football, soccer, and other sports. One of the earliest baseball stadiums that incorporated this type of design was Cleveland Stadium (built 1932), which featured an oval grandstand that was more friendly to goal-centered sports like football. A park built to suit all sports well, which was co-owned by the teams or the city, seemed advantageous to all, especially because it was less expensive to maintain one stadium rather than two. Some parks that were originally built for one sport were renovated to accommodate multiple sports.\n\nThe shape of the parks generally depended on the original use. Baseball parks that were renovated to accommodate football, like Candlestick Park and Anaheim Stadium, were usually asymmetrically shaped. Football stadiums that were renovated to accommodate baseball, like Sun Life Stadium and Mile High Stadium, were usually of a rectangular shape, though Mile High actually started its life in 1948 as a Minor League Baseball park known as Bears Stadium. Parks that were built to serve both were usually circular and completely enclosed on all sides. These were the parks that gained multi-purpose parks the reputation as bland cookie-cutter structures. The first of these parks was DC Stadium (renamed RFK Stadium in 1969) in the District of Columbia. RFK is unique in that it hosted two different baseball teams, and that it was the first to \"originally\" be intended for multiple sports.\n\nA notable variant among the cookie-cutter stadia was Shea Stadium. Its grandstand extended just beyond the foul poles, and did not completely enclose the field. Plans were made to enclose the grandstand and build a dome, but engineers discovered that the structure could not handle the load of the proposed dome. Thus the stadium simply remained with the area behind the outfield fence open.\n\nOne major innovation of the multi-purpose parks was the cantilevered upper deck. In earlier ballparks, the columns used to support the upper decks obstructed the view from some seats in the lower deck. The upper decks were extended upwards and the columns removed. However, even though the extension counterbalanced some of the weight, the upper decks could no longer extend as close to the field and had to be moved back. Also, the roofs could no longer be as large, and often only covered the top 15 or so rows. This exposed fans to the elements.\n\nBesides the drawbacks of the cantilever design, there were other issues with these parks. With few exceptions, seating was angled to face the center of the field of play, rather than home plate. Luxury boxes, which were a part of football culture, were now introduced to baseball, and were usually placed below the upper decks, pushing upper deck seating farther from the field. The furthest seats in these parks were or more from the plate. The capacities of these stadiums were staggeringly large, due to football drawing a larger crowd per game. However, they were usually far too large for baseball, further diminishing their intimacy. Even crowds of 40,000, a fair amount for baseball, seemed sparse. Often the only times they looked full were on opening day and playoff games. Due to the rectangular shape needed for football or soccer, outfield dimensions were generally symmetrical, and even seats at field level down the lines could be far from the action.\n\nSuch stadiums weren't much better for football. The \"cookie-cutters\" with swiveling, field-level sections proved problematic. Because the front rows were too close to the field, the fans had difficulty seeing over the football benches. This was evident in the movable seating sections in RFK Stadium. The first ten rows of the football configuration were practically at field level, and fans in those sections often stood up on their seats to get a better view. Other stadiums overcame this simply by covering those seats, not bothering to sell them. Despite being cost-effective, these problems eventually caused the parks to become unfashionable.\n\nThe multi-purpose architecture reached a climax when Toronto's SkyDome (now Rogers Centre) opened in 1989. It had state-of-the-art amenities including a retractable roof, hotel, and a restaurant behind the outfield from where patrons could view the games.\n\nOnly one of the purely open-air multi-purpose parks is still in use today: Oakland Coliseum. The Athletics plan to move out of Oakland Coliseum and build a new ballpark of their own in the future, and their former co-tenants, the NFL Oakland Raiders, moved to Las Vegas in 2020.\n\n\"Note: To reduce redundancy, this table does not list the indoor stadiums of the multi-purpose era in this section. However, all of the indoor ballparks of North America, which are listed in their own section, were also built as multi-purpose stadiums, except for Tropicana Field.\"\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki>A baseball-only ballpark converted to a multi-purpose stadium.\n\n<nowiki>**</nowiki>A football-only stadium converted to a multi-purpose stadium.\n\nWhile most teams turned to multi-purpose parks, some chose to build baseball-only parks. While these modern ballparks shirked some of the conventions of multi-purpose parks, they did include some of the new features. The most notable influences were the cantilevered upper decks, the use of seating colors other than green, fairly plain concrete exteriors, and symmetrical outfields. The most important things, though, were that they had a more intimate feel to them, and they were built for baseball. While the multi-purpose parks have become all but extinct, some modern parks, such as Dodger Stadium and Kauffman Stadium, have been hailed for aging beautifully. Rather than build new parks, the teams have decided instead to renovate the current structures, adding a few newer conveniences. Several of the modern parks built as such have remained in use, with no indication of being demolished.\n\nWhile Cleveland Stadium is the ancestor to the multi-purpose ballpark, the ancestor of the modern ballpark is Milwaukee County Stadium. It was the first to feature a symmetrical, round outfield fence. It also featured the rounded V-shaped grandstand and colorful seats that are common among all modern parks. Coincidentally, it also would have been one of the earlier examples of a converted park as well. It was supposed to replace a minor league facility, and serve as home of the minor league team until a major league franchise could be lured to the city. However, the Braves came to Milwaukee earlier than expected, and the minor league team never played in the stadium.\n\nThe first two truly modern ballparks were built by the two New York teams who moved to California, the Giants and the Dodgers. Candlestick Park was created first, but was converted to a multi-purpose park to accommodate the 49ers. Dodger Stadium has been upgraded a number of times, but remains baseball-only and its original design is still largely intact.\n\nAnaheim Stadium, which was initially modeled closely on Dodger Stadium, was expanded for football as was Candlestick, but once the Rams departed, most of the extra outfield seating was peeled back, returning the structure to more like its original design.\n\nThe original Yankee Stadium is an exceptional case. Yankee Stadium was a jewel box park, albeit a very large one. It was showing its age in the 1970s, and the stadium was extensively renovated during 1973–75, converting it into more of a modern style ballpark. Many of the characteristics that defined it as a classical jewel box were also retained, so the remodeled Stadium straddled both categories.\n\nNew Comiskey Park (now Guaranteed Rate Field) was the last modern ballpark to be built in North America. A series of renovations have been made to make it appear more like a retro-classic ballpark.\n\nAlthough they were purposefully built for baseball, some of these stadiums also hosted professional soccer and football teams at times. The Minnesota Vikings played at Metropolitan Stadium during the Twins' entire tenure there, Yankee Stadium was the New York (football) Giants' home field from 1956 to 1972, and the Green Bay Packers played a few home games at Milwaukee County Stadium every year from 1953 through 1994. A few of them, including Yankee Stadium, also hosted NASL teams during the 1970s.\n\nWith the 1960s came the first expansion teams. While some teams expanded in cities where there were established teams with facilities that could be shared, not all were as fortunate. This led to the emergence of two distinct subsets of parks in the major leagues: temporary ballparks and converted ballparks.\n\nIn some cases, there are plans to build a new ballpark for the expansion team, but it will not be completed until a few years after the team is established. This may be for a few reasons, such as delays or a desire to hold off until the deal is settled. In this case, an established building is used as a temporary home, often a minor league park. The first temporary ballparks were not actually used by expansion teams but by established franchises. When the Dodgers and Giants moved to California from New York, they played in Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum and Seals Stadium respectively while Dodger Stadium and Candlestick Park were being built.\n\nThe other case is when, rather than building a new park, the city renovates an existing minor league or college facility, expanding it to fit a major league team. These converted ballparks are different from football stadia that were converted to facilitate baseball in that converted ballparks were originally built to be baseball only, albeit for a non-major league level. Early converted ballparks were Memorial Stadium in Baltimore, Municipal Stadium in Kansas City, and Metropolitan Stadium in Bloomington, Minnesota. All three were expanded minor league facilities, although Baltimore and the Met were constructed with the idea of expanding to major league level in mind. Kansas City was a true established minor league park that was substantially expanded to accommodate major league size crowds.\n\nThese two types of ballpark are distinct because of their use, not their design. Because of this, a temporary or converted ballpark can also be any of the other types: jewel box, modern, multi-purpose, etc.\n\nAn important type of ballpark is the indoor park. These parks were covered with a fixed roof, usually a hard concrete dome. Reasons to build indoor parks were varied. The Astrodome, the first indoor sports stadium ever built, was built to escape the hot and very humid climate of Houston and the Kingdome was built to escape Seattle's constant rains. There is little to no natural light in these parks, necessitating the use of one of the most distinguishing aspects of an indoor park: artificial turf. Since there was not enough light to grow grass, artificial turf was installed, and this affected the game. Artificial turf was harder, and thus a ball hit on the ground moved faster and bounced high. This, coupled with the usually dull white or gray roofs that could camouflage a fly ball, caused what Twins fans called a \"dome-field advantage\".\n\nA park of note is Olympic Stadium in Montreal. The park was designed with a large tower that loomed over top. Cables came down from the top of the tower to connect to the large oval center of the roof. This oval center was supposed to be lifted by the cables, opening the park up if the weather was pleasant. However, the mechanism never worked correctly, and what was supposed to be a retractable roof was initially not used, then used for only a short period of time, and later replaced with a permanently fixed roof, making the stadium a strictly indoor facility.\n\nIndoor parks faced many of the same problems of the multi-purpose parks, which was compounded with the added problem of playing an outdoors sport indoors. Tropicana Field is the only indoor-only or fixed-dome park left hosting a Major League Baseball team, and may be replaced in the near future. It also is the only non multi-purpose indoor baseball stadium.\n\nThe indoor parks were built for several different reasons, chief among those weather. However, as multi-purpose parks became unfashionable, so did the drab indoor parks. This led to the creation of retractable-roof parks. These allowed shelter from the elements, but still could be opened on a nice day. To be able to support the roof, most were closed in on all sides like multi-purpose and indoor parks, but as all retractable-roof parks except Rogers Centre are baseball only, every square foot does not need to be filled with seating, and there is plenty of room for open spaces or windows that look outside.\n\nBecause the roof needs to go somewhere when not covering the field, a distinguishing characteristic of the retractable roof park is a large extension of the interior spaces to either one side of the field or both sides that the roof sits on when retracted. The only exception to this is Miller Park whose fan-shaped roof folds in upon itself and hangs behind the stands down the foul lines. Often, when retracted, the roof still hangs over the field, casting large shadows. This is countered at Miller Park by large panes of glass under the roof.\n\nWhile most stadiums seal up when the roof is closed, others are at least partially open, with large gaps that do not let in harsh weather, but don't give the feel of being inside. Except for Rogers Centre, all of these parks feature natural grass.\n\nPittsburgh's Civic Arena was the first sports building in the world with a retractable roof; however, the building was originally constructed for the Pittsburgh Civic Light Opera, which moved out in 1969 due to dissatisfaction with the acoustics in the arena. The arena's long-term tenants, the NHL's Pittsburgh Penguins, never played with the roof open, and the arena itself was never used for baseball. While Montreal's Olympic Stadium was the first baseball park to have a retractable roof, the roof was plagued by numerous problems, and was never fully used. As a result, it is not generally considered to be a retractable-roof facility. This made Rogers Centre the first fully functional retractable-roof park. It managed to succeed where Olympic Stadium failed, building a multi-section roof that folded upon itself, retracting over the hotel in center field.\n\nRetractable-roof parks can vary greatly in style, from the utilitarian (Rogers Centre), to those infused with retro elements (such as Minute Maid Park), to the contemporary (Marlins Park). The style of each park reflects the popular architecture of the era in which it was built. (This differs from indoor ballparks — all of which were built during the time of multi-purpose parks, and thus reflected the same \"flying-saucer\" style.) When Rogers Centre opened in 1989, baseball was near the end of the modern and multi-purpose era. Chase Field, T-Mobile Park, Minute Maid Park, and Miller Park all opened in the middle of the retro era. When Marlins Park opened in 2012, it introduced a new and different style, and perhaps the beginning of a new era. The Texas Rangers intend to build Globe Life Field in the retro style similar to their previous ballpark, Globe Life Park.\n\nTherefore, the term \"retractable-roof ballpark/stadium\" is not a description of the overall architectural style of the building, but of the functional aspect of it. For this reason, retractable-roof parks are also dual-listed in style-based types of ballparks. For example, the 4 retractable-roof parks built during the retro era are also considered to be retro-modern ballparks.\n\nIn 1992, Oriole Park at Camden Yards opened in Baltimore. Going in a different direction from the multi-purpose and modern ballparks, Camden Yards harkened back to the old jewel box parks. This began the building of a series of parks known as the retro-classic ballparks, or, simply, retro ballparks.\n\nThe retro parks were built with all the luxuries of the newer parks, such as luxury boxes and more restrooms and concession areas, along with new additions, such as indoor concourses that are open to the field, allowing fans to always have a view of the game. However (except for a few exceptions harkening back to the wooden ballpark era), the aesthetics shifted back to jewel box conventions, which included the use of green seats, bricks, stone, and green-painted exposed steel.\n\nA major divergence from jewel boxes was the layout of the grandstand. The focus was now on everyone in the park having a good view. Columns were missing as with the modern parks, but the upper deck was drawn back and shrunk, while the middle tiers grew in size, causing a stepped effect. The cantilevered upper deck was no longer a large necessity. However, since these new upper decks were drawn back, the shape of the inclined seating was clearly expressed on the exterior, a feature that is a hallmark of modern parks.\n\nLike the jewel box parks, the outfield fences were angled rather than the gradual curve of the newer parks, and often had quirky dimensions. The requirements for minimum distance to the outfield fences were frequently waived during this time.\n\nTeams with multi-purpose and indoor parks longed for this beautiful and classic look, and began systematically demolishing them and moving to either retro-classic or retro-modern parks. Since Camden Yards opened, two-thirds of all major league teams have opened new ballparks, each of which contain unique features. The most important feature was that they were built primarily for baseball, although these venues have also hosted football, soccer and ice hockey games. Turner Field was originally constructed as Centennial Olympic Stadium for the 1996 Summer Olympics and was retrofitted to baseball the following year.\n\nGuaranteed Rate Field has an unusual place in ballpark history. It was the last modern park built, a year before Camden Yards and hence just missing the retro movement. It was viewed as obsolete only a year into its life. The White Sox responded with a series of renovations to give the park more retro charm. This included the changing from a cantilever upper deck to a flat roof with columns, the change from a symmetrical fence to a more recognizably-shaped asymmetrical fence, and the adoption of a primarily dark-green color scheme, reminiscent of the original Comiskey Park. Upper deck seating was also reduced to eliminate locations which had proven unpopular with fans, and often went conspicuously unsold.\n\nThe most recent retro-classic ballparks were built in New York City. Queens' Citi Field is modeled after Ebbets Field, and the Bronx's Yankee Stadium is modeled after the pre-renovation \"House that Ruth Built\". Both parks opened in 2009.\n\nTeams are now trending away from the retro-classic look and are instead building retro-modern and contemporary ballparks. Turner Field was the first retro-classic park replaced, as the Atlanta Braves moved to Truist Park after the 2016 season, while the Texas Rangers are moving from Globe Life Park in Arlington to the new retractable-roof Globe Life Field in 2020.\n\nWhile Camden Yards influenced nearly every ballpark built after it, not all fully adhere to its design. Those that deviate to incorporate more modern-looking elements are called retro-modern ballparks.\n\nProgressive Field was built two years after Camden Yards, and featured the angular, asymmetrical fences of varying heights, a smaller upper deck, stepped tiers, and an unobtrusive singular color scheme. While the interior has all the hallmarks of a retro park, the exterior did not feature the look of the jewel box parks. It could not truly be called a retro-classic park.\n\nMany of today's parks have followed in this second school of retro. Rather than brick, the exteriors heavily feature white- or gray-painted steel. If there is any masonry, it is sandstone or limestone. Some feature progressive elements such as curtain walls, or retractable roofs.\n\nAngel Stadium of Anaheim has seen many changes throughout the years. It was originally a modern park, similar to the Angels' previous home, Dodger Stadium. When the NFL's Los Angeles Rams left the Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum in 1980 and set up shop in what was then Anaheim Stadium, the first round of renovations began. The grandstand was expanded to completely enclose the stadium, turning it into a multi-purpose park. The Rams left in 1994, leaving the Angels alone in the large, 65,000-seat stadium. After a two-year renovation, the steel was painted green, and what concrete remained was painted sandstone, including the sweeping curve of the entrance plaza. The seating configuration was significantly altered, most notably by tearing out most of the outfield seating except for parts of the lower decks in left and right fields, to more closely resemble the original design from the park's first 15 years. The finished product in 1998 was a retro-modern ballpark.\n\nThe same year, when Chase Field opened for the expansion Arizona Diamondbacks, it incorporated a retractable roof and a swimming pool — elements that did not exist in jewel-box ballparks. Despite the absence of MLB history in the Phoenix area and an overwhelming roof design, much of the interior was still built with all of the hallmarks of retro, similar to Progressive Field. Although Chase Field was not the first retractable-roof ballpark in history, it was the first in a wave of four retractable-roof ballparks (opening within just four years) to follow the retro-modern pattern.\n\nDuring the second decade of retro, Petco Park and Kauffman Stadium followed the construction and renovation concepts of Progressive Field and Angel Stadium, respectively. Meanwhile, the period saw another subset of three new retro-modern stadiums that pushed away from classic parks even more.\n\nWhen Great American Ball Park opened in 2003, it featured a contemporary-looking, glass-wrapped facade. Such prominent use of elements that were unfamiliar even to pre-1992 modern stadiums signaled that some stadium planners were more willing to incorporate designs that looked into the 21st century as much as they did the 20th. Five years later, Nationals Park built off Cincinnati's design, making yet more liberal use of glass along with white concrete that would not clash with architecture in the District. Nationals Park became the first stadium to go green while still offering all of the amenities — another concept that looked ahead instead of behind. The retro-modern style climaxed in 2010 with the sculptured, contemporary exterior and canopy of Target Field, rendering it almost unrecognizable from the outside. Its cantilevered glass on top of a limestone base was designed partly to functionally fit the tiny 8-acre plot in the middle of a bustling transportation interchange. But the principal architect of Target Field, Earl Santee of Populous, said that the exterior was also an artistic interpretation of the culture of Minnesotans: a dichotomy of cosmopolitan and natural. Designing the building as a metaphor for people was a different way of thinking about ballpark architecture.\n\nThe exterior of the later retro-contemporary trio of ballparks progressively evolved further and further from jewel-box or even modern-style parks. Yet, in the stands and on the field they still have the familiar classic feel while implementing the marks of retro (i.e., unique-shaped fences, forest green or other singular color scheme, etc.).\n\nPrior to the start of the 2012 baseball season, \"USA Today\" noted that new Marlins Park would \"perhaps provide a coda to the postmodern Camden Yards era\". After 2 decades of the retro style dominating ballpark architecture, a new type of design emerged in 2012 with the opening of Marlins Park, snapping the consecutive streak of 20 new (plus 3 renovated) MLB retro stadiums. This latest style's purpose is to make the fan experience the present-day culture of the stadium's surrounding city or area, and rejects the basic notion of retro. Stadium planners are calling the style contemporary.\n\nA contemporary stadium for Tampa Bay was designed, but the project was cancelled. \"The New Yorker\" wrote regarding the new MLB architecture: \"The retro mold has finally been broken, but this might be the last chance a new style gets for some time.\" \n\nThe numbers indicate the number of feet from home plate to the wall of that part of the field. Left and Right Field normally refer to the distances along the foul lines. Left Center and Right Center are the approximate power alley figures. Center Field could mean straightaway center field or it could mean to the deepest part of the center field area. Backstop refers to the distance behind home plate to the backstop screen. These numbers are one researcher's opinion of the true values and may differ from the numbers marked on the wall/fence by as much as . Capacity figures may also vary.\n\nIn 1958 MLB instituted a rule mandating that parks built thereafter have minimum outfield distances of 325' down the lines and 400' to center; older parks were grandfathered. Since then, however, numerous waivers have been granted, as can be seen from the table.\n\n<nowiki>* </nowiki>Fenway Park is 37,227 during day games\n\n<nowiki>** </nowiki>RingCentral Coliseum is expandable to 55,945.\n\n<nowiki>*** </nowiki>Tropicana Field is expandable to 42,735.\n†Actual distance to center field is ; the markings are to the left and right of dead center.\n\n††At Fenway Park, deep center is and straightaway center is .\n\n†††At Progressive Field, the distance to deep center field is and straightaway center is .\n\nParks are ordered by date of construction.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1987999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1987999", "title": "Petrus de Cruce", "text": "Petrus de Cruce\n\nPetrus de Cruce (also Pierre de la Croix) was active as a cleric, composer and theorist in the late part of the 13th century. His main contribution was to the notational system.\n\n13th-century composer, theorist, and scholar, Petrus de Cruce was apparently born in or near Amiens, in north-central France; for dates we know only that he was active in the years around 1290. He held the title of \"magistar,\" indicating that he probably studied at the University of Paris. Given the overlap of their lives and supposed tenures at Paris, Petrus may have been Franco of Cologne's student. It is recorded that in 1298 he composed a monophonic office for the royal palace chapel at Paris, and that in 1301–2, he resided at the court of the Bishop of Amiens, undoubtedly as a member of his clerical staff, and most likely his chapel staff as well. Petrus died before 1347, since in that year is the first reference in the inventory of Amiens Cathedral to its possession of a polyphonic manuscript which he had apparently left them in his will. Contemporary and slightly later commentators spoke well of Petrus de Cruce; no less than the theorist Jacobus de Liėge called him, \"that worthy practical musician, who composed so many beautiful and good pieces of mensural polyphony and followed Franco’s precepts.\"\n\nMensural notation had developed by fits and starts during the 13th century as the old ligatures/rhythmic modes became, for various reasons, less suited to the indication of polyphony’s new subtleties, as we shall see below. Not the least problem was that notation in individual part-books was cheaper than notation in score (since each piece took up much less overall space), so a way had to be found of doing it—this would involve the development of a reliable system by which to indicate note-by-note metrical value. The beginning of such a solution was Franconian notation, so called after the theorist Franco of Cologne, who outlined the system in his c. 1260 treatise, \"Ars cantus mensurabilis\" (The art of mensurable music). This system recognized the double-long, long, breve, and semi-breve as the units of note value, related to one another by triple grouping; the double was always worth two longs, but a long could be perfect (and therefore worth three breves) or imperfect (and worth only two), depending on the exact sequence of notes. The breve was the \"tempus\", equivalent to the ‘unit of the beat’ in modern notation (three quarters to a measure in ¾ time, etc.), or a modern measure if we consider all of the music to have been in 3/1, so perfect tempus was triple meter, and imperfect tempus would be duple once introduced. A breve could theoretically be worth either three semi-breves or two in Franconian notation, but if worth two, one or the other would be doubled in length. There was no provision in this notation for equal duple division, which (along with imperfect tempus, therefore) would have to wait until de Vitry codified the concept of prolation in his \"Ars nova\" of 1322.\n\nBy the 1280s, tripla (the top parts of motets and other polyphonic pieces) were moving more rapidly and independently than before, with the chant-based tenors becoming slower moving, supporting parts. Since composers wanted to maintain speech rhythms in their tripla, they looked for a way to divide the tempus into more than three semi-breves, which in modern notation would be the equivalent of a tuplet (triplet, quartolet, quintuplet, etc.); motets which do this bear the name “Petronian”, after the most prominent user of the style. One way of indicating this division was to line up the voices one atop another in score notation, so that the tempus could be seen by examining the lower parts, still wedded to rhythmic mode. This would have been a waste of precious resources, however, and was no more an option now than it had been before. Petrus, who often divided his breves into as many as seven semi-breves, developed the dot of division (punctum divisionis), which are dots placed in between semi-breves to group them; thus a series of five semi-breves separated by dots from those surrounding them would be understood by the reader as occurring in the space of one breve. In later, 15th and 16th century notation, confusion between dots of division and the later innovation of dots indicating extended note values creates transcription problems for editors, but it is usually possible to tell from context, as well as prevailing tempus and prolation, which is meant; indeed, the dot of division is rarely required, since a run of semi-breves coming between two ligatures is clearly a grouping.\n\nPetrus’s free usage of the divided breve had far-reaching implications for musical style. With more notes, the triplum became the most prominent of the three voices in contemporary texture, and the other two were relegated to a supporting role. Also, more notes and more intricate subdivision led to a slowing of general tempo—the semi-breve was performed more slowly than it had been in earlier practice, becoming the true unit of the beat, and the lower voices lost their rhythmic vitality, becoming mere structural successions of breves and longs.\n\nComposed around 1300, these motets are still considered part of the Ars Antiqua. Characteristics include further division of the triplum, the motetus and triplum move toward light and elegant expression, and a lack of concern for principles of proper textual accentuation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1988000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988000", "title": "Gardes du Corps (Prussia)", "text": "Gardes du Corps (Prussia)\n\nThe Gardes du Corps (\"Regiment der Gardes du Corps\") was the personal bodyguard of the king of Prussia and, after 1871, of the German emperor (in German, the \"Kaiser\"). The unit was founded in 1740 by Frederick the Great. Its first commander was Friedrich von Blumenthal, who died unexpectedly in 1745; his brother Hans von Blumenthal, who, with the other officers of the regiment had won the \"Pour le Mérite\" in its first action at the battle of Hohenfriedberg, assumed command in 1747. Hans von Blumenthal was badly wounded leading the regiment in a successful cavalry charge in the battle of Lobositz and had to retire from the military.\n\nInitially, the Regiment was used in part as a training unit for officers as part of a programme of expansion of the cavalry. Early officers included the rake and memoirist Friedrich von der Trenck, who described the arduous life of sleep deprivation and physical stress endured by officers, as well as the huge cost of belonging to the unit (the cuirasses, for example, were silverplated at a time when the precious metal was exceptionally expensive).\n\nUnlike the rest of the Imperial German Army after German unification in 1871, the Garde du Corps was recruited nationally and was part of the 1st Guards Cavalry Division. The Regiment wore a white cuirassier uniform with certain special distinctions in full dress. These included a red tunic for officers in court dress and a white metal eagle poised as if about to rise from the bronze helmet on which it sat. Other unique features of the regiment's full dress worn until 1914 included a red sleeveless \"Supraweste\" (vest) with the star of the Order of the Black Eagle on front and back and the retention of black iron cuirasses edged with red which had been presented by the Russian Tsar in 1814. These last replaced the normal white metal breastplates on certain special occasions.\n"}
{"id": "1988007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988007", "title": "Robert K. Brown", "text": "Robert K. Brown\n\nLieutenant Colonel Robert K. Brown (born November 2, 1932) is a combat correspondent, investigative journalist, and founder/editor/publisher of \"Soldier of Fortune\" magazine (SOF), a pro-gun, pro-military magazine which reports on various armed confrontations around the world, as well as on new weapons and other military technology. Brown is also president of Omega Group Ltd, which is the parent group of \"SOF\".\n\nBorn in Monroe, Michigan, he graduated from Colorado University. On September 22, 1999, Las Vegas, Nevada Mayor Oscar Goodman issued a proclamation declaring that day to be \"Soldier of Fortune Day\" and \"Lt. Col. Robert K. Brown Day\" in honor of \"Soldier of Fortune\" magazine, its 20th annual convention in Las Vegas, and its founder and publisher.\"\n\nBrown served in the US Army from 1954-1957 and again from 1964–1985. He was a Green Beret, served with Special Forces in Vietnam, and retired from the US Army as a Lieutenant Colonel. At one point, Brown was the Vice Chairman of the NRA.\n\nIn 1970, he founded a book publishing firm with Peder Lund named Paladin Press. Brown began publishing \"Soldier of Fortune\" in 1975 in Boulder, Colorado.\n\nIn March 1984, Brown was injured in a handgun accident. This injury prevented him from traveling to El Salvador to fight in that country's civil war. \n\nIn 2011, Brown supported Steve Schreiner's campaign for the National Rifle Association Board of Directors. Schreiner was not endorsed by the NRA's Nominating Committee.\n\n"}
{"id": "1988020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988020", "title": "Gustav Vasa Bible", "text": "Gustav Vasa Bible\n\nThe Gustav Vasa Bible () is the common name of the Swedish Bible translation published in 1540–41. The full title is as appears on the right: \"Biblia / Thet är / All then Helgha Scrifft / på Swensko\". The translation into English reads: \"The Bible / That is / All the Holy Scripture / In Swedish\".\n\nThe men behind the translation were Laurentius Andreae and the Petri brothers Olaus and Laurentius. Of them, Archbishop Laurentius is regarded as the main contributor. However, had the work not been commissioned by the Swedish King Gustav Vasa, who had in effect broken with the Pope in Rome in the 1520s, the work would not have been possible.\n\nThe Bible follows the German translation by Martin Luther from 1526 closely, not only in language, but in the fonts used and the typography as a whole. The Danish version, printed a few years earlier, also did this.\n\nThe Bible established the use of the Swedish language. It established a uniform spelling of words, particularly the infinitive ending -a instead of the more Danish-sounding -e, and defined the use of the vowels å, ä and ö. It did use \"th\" for , as in English, as is apparent on the title page; but this eventually changed to \"d\".\n\nThis Bible text was, with revisions, basically the only Swedish Bible used before 1917. It was reprinted as a facsimile in 1938 and 1960. Few people today, however, are able to read the text with ease. This has to do partly with the spelling and partly with the typeface.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1988032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988032", "title": "Mulukanadu Brahmin", "text": "Mulukanadu Brahmin\n\nThe Mulukanadu Brahmins are a sub-group of Telugu-speaking Vaidiki Smartha Brahmins. Variations of the name of the community include: Murikinadu, Muluknadu, Mulukanadu, Mulakanadu, Moolakanadu and Mulikinadu.\n\nThe name \"Mulukanadu\" follows the usual conjoint formulation of Brahmin communities: the word \"Naadu\" means \"country\" in all the south Indian languages; this is suffixed to the country whence the community hails, being in this case \"Muluka\". Thus, \"Muluka\"+\"Naadu\"=\"Mulukanadu\", \"people of the Muluka land.\" Muluka or Mulaka is identified and it is also known as Moolaka or Moolaka desha along with Ashmaka in shatavahana regime. Aurangabad, Nashik, Jalna, Vashim are parts of Mulaka. Pratishthanapura or present day Paithan is the capital of Mulaka desh.\n\nT. V. Venkatachala Sastry's study of caste genealogy and sociology titled \"Mulukanadu Brahmanar\" traces the genealogy of the Mulukanadu sect and its origins, customs and prevailing cultures.\n\nMulukanadu has been called variously across an assorted array of inscriptions found in the region. The Brahmin community from this sect has an incessant relationship with the Telugu language and it can be deduced that the region corresponding to the origin of this sect is the middle Pennar region which is based entirely in the Cuddapah district. The area is itself known under different names during different periods of time. Dommaranandyala plates inscribed by Punyakumara mentions this region as \"Hiranya Rashtra.\" The first inscription that explicitly talks about \"Mulkinadu\" is of the Rashtrakuta king Krishna in Pushpagiri as \"Mulkinadu naidu maharajyam.\" Along with Mulkinadu, various other locations in the vicinity are called \"Renadu, Marjavadi, Pottapinadu, Pedanadu\" and so on. \n\nThere is another inscription by the king Kayasta Ambadeva (This is the same king who reigned the southern region of the Andhra Pradesh under the Kakatiya ruler Rudrama Devi) dated \"Saka\" 1214 corresponding to 1292 CE. Along with Mulkinadu, he also refers to other regions \"Penavadi, Pulivendla\" (Present day Pulivendula), \"Sirivodu\" and \"Pottapi.\" \n\nAnother king of the Kakatiya dynasty Prataprudra who ruled between 1289 CE and 1323 CE had got inscribed in his \"Chanduvayi inscription\" in the Siddhavatam Taluk of Cuddapah district about the region of Mulikinadu in the year 1319 CE. The fact that these inscriptions also refer to other regions that are close by attests that the region Mulkinadu or Mulukanadu is indeed a region in Cuddapah district. \n\n"}
{"id": "1988033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988033", "title": "Yahoo! Music", "text": "Yahoo! Music\n\nYahoo! Music, owned by Yahoo!, was the provider of a variety of music services, including Internet radio, music videos, news, artist information, and original programming. Previously, users with Yahoo! accounts could gain access to hundreds of thousands of songs sorted by artist, album, song and genre.\n\nYahoo Music began as \"LAUNCH\", a website and magazine produced by LAUNCH Media which Yahoo acquired for US$12 million in 2001. LAUNCH was later rebranded as \"Yahoo Music\", then simply \"Y! Music\" in February 2005. LAUNCH's LAUNCHcast Internet radio and music video offerings were integrated into Yahoo's site along with artist profiles containing an extensive selection of music and biographical information.\n\nOn September 14, 2004, Yahoo purchased Musicmatch, Inc., makers of the Musicmatch Jukebox software. As of Musicmatch 10.1, Yahoo has rebranded Musicmatch Jukebox as Yahoo Music Musicmatch Jukebox, and integrated it with the Yahoo Music Engine store. The main difference is the branding and physical program.\nIn 2005, Yahoo Music became the first major online music service to provide a $5 per month unlimited download service similar to the Open Music Model, albeit with digital rights management, called Yahoo Music Unlimited.\nIn 2008, Yahoo announced that Yahoo Music Unlimited will be merged into Rhapsody. This merge was completed with the shutdown of Yahoo Music Unlimited on September 30, 2008.\n\nYahoo Music was the number one online music site in terms of audience reach and total time spent in March 2007.\n\nIn 2011, Yahoo Music became the main CBS Radio player, with AOL Radio switching to Barakadas.\n\nAs of September 2018, Yahoo! Music's site has been consolidated into Yahoo! Entertainment's site and all Yahoo! Music's URLs redirect to Yahoo! Entertainment with its own \"Music\" section.\n\nYahoo Music offered a variety of products, including:\n\n"}
{"id": "1988037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988037", "title": "Thomas McGuire", "text": "Thomas McGuire\n\nThomas Buchanan McGuire Jr. (August 1, 1920 – January 7, 1945) was an Irish American United States Army major who was killed in action while serving as a member of the United States Army Air Forces during World War II and posthumously awarded the Medal of Honor. He was one of the most decorated American fighter pilots and the second highest scoring American ace of the war.\n\nMcGuire was memorialized by the renaming of Fort Dix Army Air Force Base in Burlington County, New Jersey, to McGuire Air Force Base in 1948.\n\nMcGuire was born in Ridgewood, New Jersey, on August 1, 1920. He and his mother moved to Sebring, Florida in the late 1920s and McGuire graduated from Sebring High School in 1938. He enrolled at the Georgia Institute of Technology and joined Beta Theta Pi fraternity, but left after his third year to enter the U.S. Army Air Corps Aviation Cadet Program on July 12, 1941.\n\nMcGuire would become one of the top scoring combat pilots in U.S. Air Force history. Had it not been for periodic illnesses and the heavy administrative duties as Commander, 431st Fighter Squadron (from May to December 1944), he might have become the United States' leading ace. Civilian contractor Charles Lindbergh bunked with him for a time and flew as his wingman on several missions. Visitors recalled McGuire ordering Lindbergh around, telling him to run errands as though he were a servant. With a total of 38 enemy planes destroyed to his credit in World War II, McGuire was only two victories behind Major Richard Bong.\n\nMcGuire reported to the flying school in Corsicana, Texas, as an aviation cadet. He received further training in San Antonio, and was commissioned a second lieutenant and awarded his pilot wings at Kelly Field, Texas, on February 2, 1942. He was assigned to the 313th Pursuit Squadron at Selfridge Field, Michigan from February to May and the 56th Pursuit Squadron at Paine Field, Texas.\n\nMcGuire's first combat assignment was in June 1942, flying patrols over the Aleutian Islands in a Bell P-39 Airacobra while assigned to the 54th Fighter Group until October, before returning to Harding Field, Louisiana. While scoring no aerial victories in the Aleutians, McGuire was able to hone his skills as a pilot. In December 1942, he married Marilynn \"Pudgy\" Giesler shortly before he was transferred to Hamilton Field, California. In February 1943, he reported to Orange County Airport, California for transition training in the Lockheed P-38 Lightning.\n\nIn March 1943, McGuire was sent to the Southwest Pacific as a member of the 9th Fighter Squadron, 49th Fighter Group, Fifth Air Force, based in New Guinea. Two months later, the Fifth Air Force created an entire group of P-38s, the 475th Fighter Group in Australia at the behest of Lieutenant General George Kenney, the commanding officer of the Fifth Air Force. In mid-July, McGuire was transferred to the 431st Fighter Squadron, 475th Fighter Group. On August 18, 1943, Lieutenant McGuire was part of a group flying top cover for bombers striking at Wewak, New Guinea. Nearing their target, the fighters were attacked by Japanese aircraft. During the battle, McGuire shot down two Nakajima Ki-43 \"Oscars\" and one Kawasaki Ki-61 \"Tony.\" On the following day, near the same location, he downed two more Oscars. This established him as an ace in two days. In September, he was promoted to first lieutenant.\n\nMcGuire's career nearly came to an end on October 17, 1943, when he scrambled from Dubodura, New Guinea to intercept approaching Japanese bombers being escorted by Mitsubishi A6M Zero fighters over Oro Bay, New Guinea. During the ensuing dogfight, McGuire observed at least seven Zeros attacking a lone P-38 that was trailing smoke. McGuire dove into the enemy fighters and quickly shot down three. The remaining four Zeros were able to attack McGuire and severely damage his aircraft. With his controls out, McGuire decided to bail out but as he exited the aircraft, his parachute harness snagged on something in the cockpit. From McGuire struggled to free himself from the stricken fighter. Finally McGuire was able to free himself and deploy his parachute at . He landed safely in the water and was rescued by a PT boat. McGuire suffered a bullet wound to his wrist and numerous other injuries including some broken ribs. He spent six weeks in the hospital before he returned to his unit. For his actions on this day he was awarded a Silver Star and a Purple Heart. In late December, he was promoted to captain and became the operation officer of the 431st Fighter Squadron.\n\nIn early May 1944, McGuire became the commanding officer of the 431st Fighter Squadron.McGuire wrote a book \"Combat Tactics In The Southwest Pacific Area\", for Fifth Air Force, on 4 May 1944. On May 18, he was promoted to major. In December, McGuire became the Operation Officer of the 475th Fighter Group. On December 25–26, 1944, he downed seven Japanese fighter aircraft in just two days over Luzon, Philippines.\n\nJanuary 7, 1945, McGuire took off from Dulag Airfield on Leyte and led a group of four P-38s – himself, Major Jack Rittmayer, Captain Edwin Weaver, and Lieutenant Douglas Thropp – on a fighter sweep over northern Negros Island in the central Philippines. Their aim was to gain victories. McGuire desperately wanted to pass Bong's score of 40 kills. Descending through cloud cover, McGuire's flight circled a Japanese airfield at Fabrica and then proceeded to a second airstrip at Manapla (also referred to as Carolina). As they approached Manapla, they were confronted by a lone Ki-43 \"Oscar\", which immediately engaged McGuire's flight.\n\nFlying in the number-three position, Lt. Thropp saw the Oscar trying to attack him in a head-on pass. Thropp broke hard left. The Japanese pilot turned with him and fell into position behind him while firing. Major Rittmayer, flying as Thropp's wingman, turned sharply towards and began firing on the attacker. McGuire saw the Oscar was being engaged by Rittmayer and turned to face an imminent threat to the flight from the opposite direction. McGuire and his flight had encountered Warrant Officer Akira Sugimoto, who was an instructor pilot with some 3,000+ hours in type. Sugimoto broke away from Thropp and Rittmayer and turned to find McGuire and his wingman Ed Weaver directly in front of him. Sugimoto was easily able to catch up and attack them from behind.\nAs Sugimoto approached Weaver from behind, Weaver radioed he was attacked and cut inside of the turn to present a more difficult shot. McGuire eased up on his turn rate in an effort to draw the attacker off of his wingman and onto himself. Sugimoto took the bait and switched his attack to McGuire. As Sugimoto approached from behind, McGuire rapidly increased his turn rate. This extremely dangerous maneuver, performed at an altitude of only (contrary to McGuire's own dictates never to engage at a low altitude), caused McGuire's P-38 to stall. It snap rolled inverted and nosed down into the ground. Despite the low altitude, McGuire nearly pulled out successfully; had he jettisoned his drop tanks at the start of the dogfight, he might have managed it. McGuire was killed on impact.\n\nMcGuire's crash was witnessed by Filipinos who immediately rushed to the scene and secured his body so it would not be captured. In 1949, his remains were recovered by the U.S. Army and returned to the United States. He was buried with full military honors at Arlington National Cemetery on May 17, 1950. A memorial, placed by aviation archaeologist and former fighter pilot David Mason in 2007, was erected at McGuire's fatal crash site on Negros Island.\n\nMcGuire's military decorations and awards include:\n\n\nList of Medal of Honor recipients for World War II\n\n"}
{"id": "1988063", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988063", "title": "William Nelson, 1st Earl Nelson", "text": "William Nelson, 1st Earl Nelson\n\nWilliam Nelson, 1st Earl Nelson, 2nd Duke of Bronté (20 April 1757 – 28 February 1835), was an Anglican clergyman and an older brother of Horatio Nelson, 1st Viscount Nelson.\n\nBorn in Burnham Thorpe, he was a son of the Reverend Edmund Nelson (1722–1802), and the Nelson family had been settled in Norfolk for many generations. The Reverend Edmund Nelson was Rector of Hillborough and of Burnham Thorpe in that county and married Catherine Suckling, whose maternal grandmother Mary was the sister of Robert Walpole and of Horatio Walpole, 1st Baron Walpole of Wolterton. Their fifth but third-surviving son was the renowned naval commander Horatio Nelson.\n\nWilliam married first Sarah Yonge on 9 November 1786. A daughter, Charlotte, was born in 1787 and a son, Horatio, the following year. After Sarah's death on 13 April 1828, at the age of 71, Nelson married the much younger Hilare Barlow on 26 March 1829.\n\nWilliam Nelson succeeded by a special remainder, which included his father's and sisters' male issue, to one of Horatio Nelson's baronies (\"Baron Nelson\", of the Nile and of Hilborough in the County of Norfolk, created in 1801) upon the latter's death at the Battle of Trafalgar on 21 October 1805, as well as to the dukedom of Bronté, of the Kingdom of the Two Sicilies. A month later, on 20 November 1805, in honour of his late brother's achievements, he was created Earl Nelson and Viscount Merton, both of Trafalgar and of Merton in the County of Surrey, again with a special remainder including the male issue of his sisters.\n\nHe was reportedly an ambitious man, and used Nelson's mistress Emma Hamilton's generosity and hospitality when it served his purpose, including hosting his son Horace at her home during the Eton school holidays, but cut both her and Horatia Nelson, Emma's daughter by Lord Nelson, off after Nelson's death. He did not respect his brother's wishes to look after Horatia.\n\nHe moved to Trafalgar Park after Standlynch Park was renamed thus by an Act of Parliament in 1814.\n\nHe died without surviving male issue, Horatio (recently made Viscount Trafalgar) having died at the age of 19 of tuberculosis in 1808, and all of his British titles passed to Thomas Bolton, the son of his sister Susannah. The Sicilian dukedom of Bronté passed to his daughter Charlotte, wife of Samuel Hood, 2nd Baron Bridport.\n"}
{"id": "1988077", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988077", "title": "Gitega Province", "text": "Gitega Province\n\nGitega is one of the 18 provinces of Burundi. Its capital is Gitega, which is also the national capital. It has a population of 725,223 as of 2008 and an area of .\n\nAfter Burundi attained full independence on 1 July 1962, there was a military coup d'état in which the king was overthrown and monarchy disbanded in 1966. When King Ntare V tried to reinstate his kingdom, he was assassinated in 1972 at the Royal Palace of Gitega.\n\nOn 26 April 1996, army attacks at Buhoro killed some 230 civilians. On 21 October, some 70 Tutsi students were burnt alive at Kibimba. In March 2007, President Pierre Nkurunziza announced that Burundi had plans to transfer the capital from Bujumbura to Gitega. According to him, the central location of the city makes it \"an ideal place to better serve the majority of the population\". The capital was moved on 24 December 2018.\n\nGitega Province is located in central Burundi. It has an area of and has a population density of 366.5 individuals per square kilometre. Gitega is a central highland province along with Kayanza and Muramvya.\n\nGitega Province is divided administratively into 11 communes:\n\n\nGitega Province is one of the seventeen provinces of Burundi and Gitega is its capital city. The province has a population of 725,223 and the Gitega Commune the largest population of 155,005; the least populous commune is Ryansoro with a population of 35,835. Gitega city had a population of 20,700 in 1990. As of June 2000, 21,350 people were located in internally displaced persons (IDP) camps, housed in 16 settlements within the province.\n\nThe climatic condition in Gitega the capital of the province is moderate with an average annual high of 18 degrees c and a low of . The average annual rainfall is .\nBurundi is diversifying from the main economic activities of agriculture and livestock farming. One such micro project is in the fisheries sector in Gitega. In 1999, the Dushirehamwe fish farm association was established in the province with 23 men and women. In 2002, they received a grant from Africare. After the success of the first fish farm under the grant, the association successfully launched a second project with its own funds in 2003. Africare has also supported measures to strengthen civil society organizations. While the principal hospital in the province is Gitega Hospital in Gitega City, the only state-run rehabilitation center for landmine victims is located in the province. The principal airport is Gitega Airport (IATA: GID, ICAO: HBBE) which has an elevation of with a runway of .\n\nMushasha is the seat of the Catholic Archbishop. The Archdiocese of Gitega, the Metropolitan See for the Ecclesiastical province of Gitega, was established in 1959. It has jurisdiction over an area of . Approximately 77 percent out of the total population in the province belongs to the diocese.\n\nSome of the landmarks in the province are the national museum and drum sanctuaries. Burundi National Museum was established in 1955. It consists of two distinct areas, the traditional museum building and the drummers' sanctuary. Exhibits consist of drums, dance and musical instruments, baskets, calabashes weaponry, and tools used in sorcery. It also houses ancient Burundian dresses and a large library.\n\nThe royal palace is located on a hill top 45 miles away from Gitega; it contains a traditional art museum. It is located within the military camp where the King Ntare V was incarcerated. The drum sanctuary is in the precincts of the royal palace. It houses ancient drums and drum making tools, and offers exhibitions with dance and music programmes for the public. The sanctuary's objective is to preserve and popularize the Burundian culture particularly the role of the drum in its history. Of the two personal drums of the king, one is in the sanctuary and the other is preserved in the museum. Dancers performed with these drums for the king. This sanctuary was refurbished in 1988. The \"rukinzo\" drum used to be part of the king's entourage.\n\nAlso in the province are a craftwares village and the Gitega Art School of ceramics, paintings and sculptures. There is also an artistic centre where ceramics, leather and wood carvings are made. The Chutes de la Kalera, close to Rutana, is a natural scenic attraction during the rainy season.\n\n"}
{"id": "1988078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988078", "title": "Ajith Kumar", "text": "Ajith Kumar\n\nAjith Kumar (born 1 May 1971), often mononymously called Ajith, is an Indian film actor who works predominantly in Tamil cinema. To date, Ajith has starred in over 50 films. Among his awards include four Vijay Awards, three Cinema Express Awards, three Filmfare Awards South and three Tamil Nadu State Film Awards. Based on the highest annual earnings of Indian celebrities, he was included in the \"Forbes\" \"India\" Celebrity 100 list in 2012, 2017 and 2019. In addition to his acting, he is also a motor car racer and participated in the MRF Racing series (2010).\n\nHe began his career with a small role in the 1990 Tamil film \"En Veedu En Kanavar\". He established himself as a romantic hero with \"Kadhal Kottai\" (1996), \"Aval Varuvala\" (1998) and \"Kadhal Mannan\" (1998), and established himself as an action hero starting with film \"Amarkalam\" (1999). Ajith's dual portrayal of twin brothers—where one is deaf-mute—in S. J. Surya's \"Vaali\" (1999) won him his first Filmfare Award for Best Tamil Actor. He earned critical acclaim for his dual role performance in the vigilante film \"Citizen\" (2001). In 2006, he starred in \"Varalaru\", in which he played three different roles. It became the highest-grossing Tamil film of 2006. The following year he starred in two remakes\"Kireedam\" (2007) and \"Billa\" (2007), both of which earned him critical acclaim. Ajith played an antihero in \"Mankatha\" (2011), which became one of the highest-grossing Tamil films of all time. His next release, \"Billa II\" (2012), was Tamil cinema's first prequel. \n\nAjith became a race car driver, competing in circuits around India in places such as Mumbai, Chennai and Delhi. He is one among very few Indians to race in the International arena and in Formula championships. He has also been abroad for various races, including Germany and Malaysia. He drove in the 2003 Formula Asia BMW Championships. He raced in the 2010 Formula 2 Championship along with two other Indians, Armaan Ebrahim and Parthiva Sureshwaren.\n\nAjith was born on 1 May 1971, in Hyderabad, India. His Tamil father P. Subramaniam is from Palakkad, Kerala and his Sindhi mother Mohini is from Kolkata, West Bengal. He dropped out of Asan Memorial Senior Secondary School in 1986 before completing his higher secondary. Ajith created the non-profit organisation \"Mohini-Mani Foundation\", named after his parents, in order to promote self-hygiene and civic consciousness and to help ease the problems of urban sprawl. Ajith was the middle son out of three brothers, the others being Anup Kumar, an investor, and Anil Kumar, an IIT Madras graduate-turned-entrepreneur.\n\nAjith did not speak Tamil as a child as he practiced Sindhi by his mother instead of Tamil, and mastered it only after becoming an actor. Aged 19, Ajith began his acting career and appeared in a song in \"En Veedu En Kanavar\" (1990). Later, Ajith was selected by the Telugu film production company Lakshmi Productions, to star in its film; however, the shooting was stalled soon after filming began, following the death of the film's director. Ajith then appeared in the low budget Telugu film \"Prema Pustakam\" in 1992, which remains his last direct Telugu film to date. His first Tamil film \"Amaravathi\", directed by then-newcomer Selva, was a moderate success and his voice was rendered by fellow actor Vikram. After the release and while training for an amateur motor race, Ajith suffered a fall, injuring his back and underwent three major surgeries resulting in bed rest for one and a half years. Following the injury in 1993, Ajith played a small role in the Arvind Swamy starrer \"Paasamalargal\", before appearing in a supporting lead role in the family drama \"Pavithra\", which featured him as an ailing patient shown maternal affection from Raadhika.\n\nIn 1995, after playing the second lead role in the Vijay starrer \"Rajavin Parvaiyile\", Ajith appeared in his first major success: \"Aasai\". The film, directed by Vasanth and produced by Mani Ratnam featured him in the lead role opposite Suvalakshmi, whose brother-in-law infatuates about her. The film became a big success and established Ajith as an upcoming actor in the Tamil film industry. He later played the lead in \"Kalloori Vaasal\", co-starring Prashanth and Pooja Bhatt. Ajith's second successful film came in the form of National Award winning \"Kadhal Kottai\", in which Ajith reunited with Agathiyan, the director of the earlier project \"Vaanmathi.\" During Vaanmathi filming, Ajith and Swathi fell in love and the actress even revealed that they are going to get married soon to a Telugu TV channel, however the pair broke up and it still remains a mystery. The film \"Kadhal Kottai\" paired him opposite Devayani, with Heera Rajgopal playing a supporting role. Heera, Ajith's then girlfriend, played a major role in shaping Ajith's career.\n\nAfter the success of his films in 1996, the following year saw a series of five classical successes, one such being Amitabh Bachchan's Tamil production \"Ullaasam\", with Maheswari, in which he was paid a salary of for the first time. Ajith returned in 1998 with another big, successful project in Saran's \"Kaadhal Mannan\", an action romantic comedy, setting the foundation for an expanding fan base. He also began acting in Vasanth's \"Nerukku Ner\", and was later replaced by Suriya. The following films \"Aval Varuvala\" and \"Unnidathil Ennai Koduthen\" also became successes, with the latter featuring Ajith in a guest role. Except for \"Uyirodu Uyiraga\", which performed poorly, his other three films released in 1998 and six in 1999 were box office hits. Ramesh Khanna's \"Thodarum\" and Sundar C's romantic drama \"Unnaithedi\" opposite Malavika set the tone for a series of big successes.\n\nS. J. Suryaah's thriller \"Vaali\", which portrayed him in dual roles for the first time opposite Simran, became one of his biggest hits during that time. The film told the story of a deaf and mute brother setting his eyes on his younger brother's wife, with Ajith's portrayal of the two brothers winning him his first of many awards for Filmfare's Best Actor. Furthermore, Ajith's portrayal of the brothers was also praised, with critics claiming that the film was an \"instant classic\", with Ajith showing that he is a \"talented actor\". The two following supporting roles in the drama films \"Anandha Poongatre\" and \"Nee Varuvai Ena\" also brought Ajith plaudits for his portrayals. His final film before the new millennium was \"Amarkalam\", directed by Saran and featuring Shalini, whom he married shortly after the film. \"Amarkalam\" told the story of a neglected child who grew up and failed to show feelings of love or affection, becoming a gangster in the process, with Ajith's depiction of his rogue character appreciated by critics.\n\nHis next, \"Mugavaree\", won him commercial and critical praise. The film revolved around the life of a struggling music composer who faces sacrifices to proceed in his career. The film featured dual endings, one with Ajith succeeding in his career, the other with Ajith dejected. Ajith's performance was yet again praised with critics from Rediff, claiming that \"Ajith is the real winner\", drawing an allusion with the film's script, whilst adding that \"it is amazing to see how Ajith has grown as an actor. He brilliantly portrays the vulnerable and sad Sridhar\". He also appeared in A. R. Rahman's 2000 musical \"Kandukondain Kandukondain\", directed by Rajiv Menon. The film featured Ajith alongside prominent actor Mammooty and actresses Aishwarya Rai, Tabu and Srividya. In a similar role to his previous film, Ajith played a struggling film director facing an oscillating relationship with Tabu, with the pair being unanimously praised for their roles. After giving six straight hits in 1999, and having had \"Mugavaree\" and \"Kandukondain Kandukondain\" in 2000 as successes, Ajith had an unsuccessful film, \"Unnai Kodu Ennai Tharuven\", co-starring Simran.\n\nIn 2001, Ajith appeared in three commercially successful Tamil films. \"Dheena\" co-starring Laila and Suresh Gopi, released at Pongal and marked the beginning of a new image of Ajith as an action hero who would appeal to the masses. He earned the nickname, \"Thala\" (Leader), from this film. In the same year, he was offered a role in \"Nandha\", which he rejected and was replaced by Suriya, the eldest son of actor Sivakumar. His next was the much-hyped thriller \"Citizen\", portraying him in ten different get-ups and it became a commercial success at the box office. A role in the family drama \"Poovellam Un Vasam\" followed opposite Jyothika and was a success commercially and critically, earning a Special Best Actor Award from the Tamil Nadu State. The year ended off with an appearance in Santosh Sivan's Hindi project \"Asoka\", in which Ajith played as one of the antagonist against Shah Rukh Khan, which did not perform well. In 2002, Ajith appeared in three films, the first two, \"Red\" and \"Raja\" being box office disappointments, the former further building up his image as an action hero. The third film \"Villain\", in which Ajith appeared in dual roles, one as a mentally disabled person and another as a caring brother, became successful and earned his second Filmfare Best Tamil Actor Award.\n\nFrom 2003 through 2005, Ajith appeared in fewer films due to his career in motor racing becoming more prominent. 2003 saw the release of his long-delayed \"Ennai Thalatta Varuvala\" and the police drama \"Anjaneya\", both failing commercially. In that period, three successful films, namely \"Saamy\", \"Kaakha Kaakha\" and \"Ghajini\", were turned away by the actor due to various reasons.\n\nHis next film, \"Jana\" with Sneha, also became a big failure, with the Saran film \"Attagasam\", being his only hit in the period. The film saw Ajith portray dual roles, with a song \"Thala Deepavali\", penned to promote his action image. In 2005, the failure of the Linguswamy film \"Ji\", despite garnering positive reviews and taking a strong opening, saw Ajith take a sabbatical from acting to re-work his image. Of the five films released between 2003 and 2005, his only box office hit was \"Attagasam\".\n\nDuring 2006, Ajith returned from his hiatus by appearing in P. Vasu's \"Paramasivan\" for which he had lost twenty kilograms to portray the lead role. The film enjoyed a moderate success, scoring over Vijay's \"Aathi\", which also released in the same week, at the box office. Critics from The Hindu stated that Ajith looked \"trim and taut\" in the film with \"only his eyes seeming to have lost some of its sparkle\", following the major weight loss. Furthermore, for \"Paramasivan\" and his two other projects in 2006, Ajith sported long hair, which was being grown for Bala's project \"Naan Kadavul\", which Ajith eventually opted out of. Similarly, his next film, AVM Productions's, \"Thirupathi\", directed by Perarasu performed above average business at the box office, despite garnering poor reviews, with Rediff critics citing that the film is \"anything but sensible\", but that Ajith \"salvages the situation with a spirited performance\". Ajith summed up a successful comeback by the release of his long-delayed film \"Varalaru\", which went on to become his first biggest success. The K. S. Ravikumar film co-starring Asin, portrayed Ajith in three roles, including that of a classical dancer, with his portrayals being critically praised. Moreover, the film earned Ajith his third Filmfare Best Actor Award. In 2007, media reports hinted that the actor would do a project with Shankar. Ajith's first release in 2007, \"Aalwar\", became a debacle at the box office, with his previous film still continuing to run in theatres even after \"Aalwar\" had stopped its brief theatrical run. \"Kireedam\", a remake of the 1989 National Award winning Malayalam film of the same name, was released to positive reviews, with the film also becoming a moderate success. During the shooting of the film, Ajith developed a further spinal injury, a recurrence of his problem earlier in his career.\n\nAjith then starred in \"Billa\", a remake of the 1980 Rajinikanth starrer of the same name. The Vishnuvardhan directorial fetched critical praise for Ajith, becoming a trend-setter for stylish art direction and cinematography in India. \"Billa\", yet again, featured Ajith in dual roles, one of a notorious don whilst the other played an innocent person who had to act as the don, following the former's death.\n\nAfter \"Billa\", Ajith appeared in the film, Ayngaran International's production \"Aegan\", directed by the choreographer turned director Raju Sundaram. The film, a remake of the 2004 Hindi comedy \"Main Hoon Na\", received mixed reviews and was a failure at the box office.\nFollowing a year of production, Ajith's \"Aasal\", released in February 2010, taking a grand opening at the box office. The film, which also featured Ajith in dual roles, also failed at the box office despite bigger expectations.\n\nAfter a second foray into motor racing, Ajith signed a film directed by Venkat Prabhu, titled \"Mankatha\", which notably became his 50th project. The film featured him in a full-length negative role as Vinayak Mahadevan, a suspended police officer with a lust for money. His performance and his decision to portray a character with negative shade, breaking the stereotype hero image in Tamil cinema, were lauded by critics, with reviewers from \"Sify\" and \"Rediff\" terming the film as an \"out and out Ajith film\" that worked \"only because of Ajith\". Heaping praise on the actor's performance, the former noted that he \"rocks as the man with ice in his veins as the mean and diabolic cop\" and that he played \"the emotionless bad man, to perfection\", while the latter wrote that practically \"he carried the whole film on his capable shoulders\". \"Mankatha\" became a financially successful venture.\n\nAjith then starred in \"Billa II\", a sequel to his 2007 film \"Billa\", which released on 13 July 2012. Reviewers appreciated Ajith's on-screen presence and stunts but blamed him for the choice of story and the director. Eventually, the film performed poorly at the box office.\nHe starred in Vishnuvardhan's \"Arrambam\", alongside Arya, Nayantara and Taapsee Pannu, which was released on 31 October, and earned positive reviews from both critics and audience. His next film after \"Arrambam\" was \"Veeram\", directed by Siva and co-starring Tamannaah, which was released on Pongal 2014, which also earned positive reviews from critics. Ajith's next film was \"Yennai Arindhaal\", with Gautham Menon as director. Ajith's performance as cop was widely praised with a critic calling it \"Ajith's best since Kandukondain Kandukondain\". Ajith was subsequently nominated for the Filmfare Award for Best Actor – Tamil in the 63rd Filmfare Awards South. Ajith worked with Siva again in \"Vedalam\" (2015), in which critics praised his performance. His latest project is Vivegam which received mixed to negative reviews with critics citing illogical scenes and average screenplay. \"Viswasam\" released during Pongal festival of January 2019 is a box office hit having sentiment and action scenes which made it attractive for his fans and family audiences. Nerkonda Parvai which becomes the 2nd movie for Ajith in 2019.\n\nIn 2004, Ajith was signed as Nescafe's brand ambassador in Tamil Nadu. Later, he has limited his appearance to the silver screen by not appearing or promoting any commercials.\nAjith Kumar is passionate about UAVs and drones. Recently he has been appointed as the test pilot and UAV system advisor by Madras Institute of Technology for Medical Express-2018 UAV Challenge.\n\nAjith became a racing driver, competing in circuits around India in places such as Mumbai, Chennai and Delhi. He is one among very few Indians to race in the International arena and in Formula championships. He has also been abroad for various races, including Germany and Malaysia. He drove in the 2003 Formula Asia BMW Championships. He raced in the 2010 Formula 2 Championship along with two other Indians, Armaan Ebrahim and Parthiva Sureshwaren.\n\nAfter a one-off race during the Formula Maruti Indian Championships in 2002, where he finished in fourth place, Ajith signed a contract with manager Akbar Ebrahim, confirming his participation in the inaugural Formula BMW Asia championship. Despite spinning out in the first lap of his first race, Ajith successfully completed the season by finishing twelfth.\n\nAfter a six-year sabbatical, Ajith signed up for his third season of car racing by participating in the 2010 season of the FIA Formula Two Championship. The decision to be involved in the sport was made after Ajith's film directed by Gautham Menon was delayed, allowing him to participate in the whole season. Prior to signing up, he competed in the final round of the MRF racing series in Chennai in February 2010, but failed to finish the race due to mechanical problems. Further trials in Sepang, Malaysia followed suit as he practised for the season's beginning in April 2010 in his Formula Renault V6 car with Eurasian Racing, shedding 11 kilograms during training.\n\nMedia reports that Ajith has dated actresses Swathi and Heera Rajagopal. In 1999, during the shoot of Saran's \"Amarkalam\", Ajith began to date his co-star Shalini At that time, their involvement made him a regular subject of tabloid gossip. Despite the fact actor Ramesh kanna advised Ajith not to marry an actress, Ajith proposed to actress Shalini in June 1999 and they were married in April 2000 in Chennai. On 3 January 2008, their daughter, Anoushka, was born in Chennai. On 2 March 2015, their second child, a son Aadvik was born. \n"}
{"id": "1988081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988081", "title": "Rutana Province", "text": "Rutana Province\n\nRutana Province is one of the 18 provinces of Burundi.\n\nIt contains the Kagera waterfalls, and the Nyakazu Fault. \n\nIt is divided administratively into the following communes:\n\n"}
{"id": "1988083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988083", "title": "Luis Arroyo", "text": "Luis Arroyo\n\nLuis Enrique \"Tite\" Arroyo, (February 18, 1927 – January 13, 2016), was a major league baseball pitcher from 1955 to 1963. Arroyo was the first Puerto Rican born baseball player to play for the New York Yankees and was a key part of their pennant winning seasons in 1961 and 1962.\n\nArroyo, from Peñuelas, Puerto Rico, made his Major League Baseball debut on April 20, 1955. A stocky left-hander, he spent one season primarily as a starter with the St. Louis Cardinals. Though he was a member of the National League All-Star team that year, he was traded to the Pittsburgh Pirates the next spring, where he was moved to the bullpen. Struggling to establish himself in the role, he went from the Pirates to the Cincinnati Redlegs, then the New York Yankees. Arroyo was the first to play for the Yankees, and despite his earlier struggles, he quickly became an important contributor to the club.\n\nAmerican League hitters had little success against Arroyo's screwball, and after a solid contribution at the back of their bullpen in 1960, he enjoyed the best season of his career in 1961. That year, Arroyo pitched 119 innings with a 2.19 ERA, while winning 15 games as the team's relief ace. His totals of 65 games pitched and 29 saves both led the league, he surrendered only five home runs in a season where league-wide offensive totals were very high by historical standards, and was named to his second All-Star team while finishing sixth in AL MVP voting.\n\nArroyo's glory was, however, short-lived. He injured his arm the following spring; while he pitched for two more seasons, he never regained his prior effectiveness. Arroyo retired after appearing in only six innings in the 1963 season. Over the course of his MLB career, he pitched 531 innings with a 3.93 ERA, collecting 40 wins, 32 losses, and 44 saves.\n\nFollowing his retirement as a player, Arroyo became a scout and pitching coach for the Yankees.\n\nIn an article in 1976 in Esquire magazine, sportswriter Harry Stein published an \"All Time All-Star Argument Starter\", consisting of five ethnic baseball teams. Arroyo, a Puerto Rican, was the relief pitcher on Stein's Latin team.\n\nOn July 16, 2010, Arroyo was hospitalized after suffering a \"mild heart attack\"; he fell ill at an event leading up to the Yankees' July 17 Old-Timers' Day celebration, an annual event where Arroyo was a popular figure.\n\nArroyo died on January 13, 2016 in Ponce, Puerto Rico. The Yankees announced his death saying that Arroyo's daughter said he had been diagnosed with cancer in December 2015.\n\n"}
{"id": "1988085", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988085", "title": "Mosaic.wav", "text": "Mosaic.wav\n\nMOSAIC.WAV is fronted by vocalist MI-KO, with keyboardist Susumu Kayamori and guitarist Masaya Koike backing her up.\n\nThey dubbed their own music as Akiba-Pop, J-pop covered by numerous Akihabara cultural references, this including fantasy anime and video game themes.\n\nMOSAIC.WAV is currently active as a band.\n\nIn 2015, MOSAIC.WAV composed the soundtrack for the anime adaptation of School-Live!.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1988088", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988088", "title": "Robe, South Australia", "text": "Robe, South Australia\n\nRobe is a town and fishing port located in the Limestone Coast of South Australia. The town's distinctive combination of historical buildings, ocean, fishing fleets, lakes and dense bush is widely appreciated. Robe lies on the southern shore of Guichen Bay, just off the Princes Highway. At the , Robe had a population of 998. Robe is the main town in the District Council of Robe local government area. It is in the state electorate of MacKillop and the federal Division of Barker.\n\nRobe, one of the oldest towns in South Australia, was founded by the colonial government as a seaport, administrative centre and village just ten years after the Province of South Australia was established.\n\nRobe was named after the fourth Governor of South Australia, Major Frederick Robe, who chose the site as a port in 1845. The town was proclaimed as a port in 1847. It became South Australia's second-busiest (after Port Adelaide) international port in the 1850s. Robe's trade was drawn from a large hinterland that extended into western Victoria, and many roadside inns were built to cater for the bullock teamsters bringing down the wool, including the 'Bush Inn' still standing on the outskirts of Robe. Exports included horses and sheep skins and wool. The Customs House has been listed on the South Australian Heritage Register since 1980. A stone obelisk was built on Cape Dombey in 1852 to assist ships to navigate safely into the bay. Even so, there have been a number of shipwrecks along the coast in the area. An automatic lighthouse was built on higher ground in 1973.\n\nDuring the Victorian gold rushes around 1857, over 16,000 Chinese people landed at Robe to travel overland to the goldfields, as Victoria introduced a landing tax of £10 per person (more than the cost of their voyage) to reduce the number of Chinese immigrants. The immigrants then walked the 200 miles (320 km) to Ballarat and Bendigo.\n\nRobe's importance decreased with the advent of railways which did not come to the town. It became a local service centre for the surrounding rural areas. It is still home to a fleet of fishing boats. Especially important are the local lobsters.\n\nRobe has a number of heritage-listed sites, including:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1988090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988090", "title": "Niccolò de' Conti", "text": "Niccolò de' Conti\n\nNiccolò de' Conti (c. 1395–1469) was an Italian merchant, explorer, and writer. Born in Chioggia, who traveled to India and Southeast Asia, and possibly to Southern China, during the early 15th century. He was one of the human sources used to create the 1450 Fra Mauro map, which indicated that there was a sea route from Europe around Africa to India.\n\nDe' Conti departed from Venice about 1419 and established himself in Damascus, Syria, where he studied Arabic. Over a period of 25 years, he traveled as a merchant to numerous places in Asia. His familiarity with the languages and cultures of the Islamic world allowed him to travel to many places on board ships owned by Islamic merchants.\n\nDe' Conti's travels followed the period of Timurid relations with Europe. They also occurred around the same time and in the same places as the Chinese expeditions of Admiral Zheng He. His accounts are contemporary, and fairly consistent with those of the Chinese writers who were on Zheng He's ships, such as Ma Huan (writing in 1433) and Fei Xin (writing in about 1436).\n\nAfter the return of Marco Polo in 1295, there is no record of Italian traders returning from China until the return of de' Conti by sea in 1439. However, we do have the account of the travels of a Franciscan friar by the name of Odoricus Mattiuzzi (1286-1331) from Friuli who in 1310 visited Armenia, Mesopotamia, Persia, Ceylon (Sri Lanka), Sumatra, Java, Cambodia, Champa and China.\nDe' Conti first crossed the desert to reach Baghdad and from there sailed down the Tigris to Basra. He then sailed through the Persian Gulf and went to Iran where he learnt Persian.\n\nHe then crossed the Arabian sea to Cambay, in Gujarat. He travelled in India to \"Pacamuria\", \"Helly\" and Vijayanagar, capital of the Deccan before 1420. It was in India that he coined the phrase 'Italian of the East' to refer to the Telugu language, which he found had words ending with vowels, similar to Italian. He went to \"Maliapur\" on the east coast of India (probably modern-day Mylapore, in Chennai), where he visited the tomb of St. Thomas, who in Christian tradition is recorded to have founded a Christian community there.\n\nAbout 1421, de' Conti crossed to \"Pedir\" in northern Sumatra, where he spent a year, gaining local knowledge, particularly on the gold and spice trade. (This was the period of fairly intensive contact between Sumatra and China, thanks in particular to the voyages of Zheng He.) He then continued after sailing 16 days to Tenasserim on the Malay peninsula. He then sailed to the mouth of the Ganges, visited Sonargaon and Chittagong (in modern Bangladesh) and then went overland to Arakan (in Burma). After traveling through Burma, he left for Java where he spent nine months, before going to Champa (in modern Vietnam).\n\nDe' Conti described South-East Asia as \"exceeding all other regions in wealth, culture and magnificence, and abreast of Italy in civilization\".\n\nIn the 1430s he sailed back to India (Quilon, Kochi, Calicut, Cambay) and then to the Middle-East (Socotra, Aden, Berbera in Somalia, Jidda in Egypt), from where he travelled overland via Mt. Sinai, where the Spanish traveller Pedro Tafur encountered him in 1436 and reported some of Niccolò's marvels, including detailed accounts of Prester John, and thence, in company with Pedro, to Cairo.\n\nThroughout his travels, he was accompanied by his family. However his wife, whom he had met in India, and two of his four children died in Egypt during an epidemic. He continued to Italy with his remaining children. de' Conti returned to Venice in 1444, where he remained as a respected merchant.\n\nPoggio Bracciolini's record of de' Conti's account, made in 1444, constitutes one of the best accounts of the East by a 15th-century traveler. It was included in the Book IV of his \"De varietate fortunae\" (\"On the Vicissitudes of Fortune\").\n\nAccounts of Niccolò de' Conti's travels, which first circulated in manuscript form, are said to have profoundly influenced the European geographical understanding of the areas around the Indian Ocean during the middle of the 15th century. They were the first accounts to detail the Sunda Islands and Spice Islands since the accounts of Marco Polo, and there is reason to believe that some of the new information on Fra Mauro's map was gleaned from conversation with Niccolò. His accounts probably encouraged the European travels of exploration of the end of the century.\n\nde' Conti also influenced 15th century cartography, as can be seen on the Genoese map (1447–1457), and in the work of the mapmaker Fra Mauro, whose influential Fra Mauro map (1450) offered one of the clearest depiction of the Old World. In these two maps, many new location names, and several verbatim descriptions, were taken directly from de Conti's account. The \"trustworthy source\" whom Fra Mauro quoted in writing is thought to have been de' Conti himself. Mauro's map discusses the travels of a \"Zoncho de India\", a \"junk from India\" (likely referring to China or kingdoms in the Nusantara archipelago, as both was often referred to as India during this period), beyond the Cape of Good Hope into the Atlantic Ocean around 1420, confirming that it was possible to sail around Africa through the south. In his descriptions of East Asia, de' Conti describes huge junks of about 1,000 tons (some translations have 2,000 tons*), larger than the typical 16th century Western galleons and equal to the large Manila galleons:\n\n\nThe man \"from Cathay\" whom Paolo Toscanelli, in a 1474 letter to Christopher Columbus, described as visiting Pope Eugenius IV (1431–1447) might have been de' Conti, who, after returning from the east, did meet Pope Eugenius in 1444:\n\nDe' Conti's book was used by several explorers and travel writers, such as Ludovico di Varthema (1510), and Antonio Pigafetta, who travelled around the world with Magellan's expedition. Alfred Russel Wallace cited de' Conti's account of the peoples of Java and Sumatra in his 1869 book \"The Malay Archipelago\".\n\nThe first printed edition of de' Conti's account was made in 1492 in the original Latin by Cristoforo da Bollate and dedicated to Pietro Cara, who was going on a journey to India. Various translations followed, into Portuguese (1502) and Spanish (1503). The first Italian-language edition appears to have been translated from the Portuguese edition, and was made a part of the collection of travellers’ accounts published in 1550 by Giovanni Battista Ramusio. The first English edition was translated from the Spanish, and printed in 1579 by John Frampton, using a combination of Marco Polo's and de Conti's narrations.\n\n"}
{"id": "1988097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988097", "title": "List of military vehicles", "text": "List of military vehicles\n\nMilitary vehicles include all land combat and transport vehicles, excluding rail-based, which are designed for orare in significant use by military forces throughout the world.\n\nSee also list of armoured fighting vehicles.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nutility vehicle (Soviet Union; World War II)\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1988101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988101", "title": "Supercluster (genetic)", "text": "Supercluster (genetic)\n\nMost usage of supercluster in population genetics research articles applies to proposed large groups of human mtDNA haplotype lineages, found by cluster analysis, that are thought to stem from a single distant most recent common ancestor, on a time scale of tens of thousands of years.\n\nUsage of \"supercluster\" for geographically defined human populations instead of mtDNA strains is rarely seen. However, it does appear in the seminal Cavalli-Sforza paper \nTherefore use of \"supercluster\" as a euphemism for \"race\" might be considered a or, more likely, an idiosyncratic usage according to the .\n\nUsage of \"supercluster\" for populations as well as haplotypes makes the term ambiguous and may require clarification when the word is used.\n\n\nExamples of usage to describe haplogroups, not races:\n"}
{"id": "1988107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988107", "title": "Frank Jacobs", "text": "Frank Jacobs\n\nFrank Jacobs (born March 30, 1929) is an American author of satires, known primarily for his work in \"Mad\", to which he has contributed since 1957. Jacobs has written a wide variety of lampoons and spoof, but he is best known as a versifier who contributes parodies of famous song lyrics and poems. In 2009, Jacobs described himself as \"the least-known writer of hysterical light verse in the United States.\"\n\nJacobs appeared in the sixth chapter of PBS' comedy documentary, \"Make 'em Laugh: The Funny Business of America\" singing \"Blue Cross\", his own 1961 parody of Irving Berlin's \"Blue Skies\". That lyric was one of 25 that comprised Berlin v. E.C. Publications, Inc., a precedent-setting case that was appealed to the Supreme Court and helped to define the boundaries of parody in American law.\n\nJacobs' first submission to the magazine, \"Why I Left the Army and Became a Civilian,\" resulted in an immediate sale and a request for more material. It was one of five Jacobs pieces to appear in issue #33 (June 1957), marking a prodigious debut for the \"Mad\" contributor. His byline has since appeared in more than 300 issues of the magazine, second only to Dick DeBartolo among \"Mad\" writers who do not also illustrate their own work. Jacobs has over 575 credits for the magazine, more than any other writer and second only to writer/artist Al Jaffee. At his peak, Jacobs was writing a fifth of the magazine's content. \"My top year, I sold 60 pages... so you get an idea of the roll I was on,\" Jacobs told an interviewer. 165 separate issues of \"Mad\" include multiple articles written by Jacobs.\n\nJacobs established numerous recurring features in \"Mad\", including fabricated obituaries for fictional characters from various genres and the \"Do-It-Yourself Newspaper Stories\" which offer a series of fill-in-the-blank options.\n\nJacobs wrote 13 paperback books under the \"Mad\" imprint, including \"Mad for Better or Verse\", a collection of poetry parodies, as well as the biography \"The Mad World of William M. Gaines\".\n\nOne of Jacobs' non-\"Mad\"-related projects was the 1965 \"Alvin Steadfast on Vernacular Island\", a gentle spoof of post-Victorian boys' books. The titular hero is a ten-year-old boy, who joins an adult explorer on Vernacular Island, a place populated by bizarre and wonderful creatures such as the Standing Ovation, the Ill Omen, the Glowing Report and the Ugly Rumor. The two humans go in search of the Doubt, and as their adventure takes them into the jungle, even more fabulous creatures are encountered. The original Dial Press edition was illustrated by Edward Gorey, in a non-characteristic whimsical style unlike his usual gleefully dark drawings. Jacobs' writing is only lightly cynical, with more of an emphasis on wordplay, puns and gentle humor.\n\nJacobs contributed to other magazines, including \"Oui\", \"Playboy\", \"Town and Country\", \"New York\", \"Sports Illustrated\", \"Saturday Review\", \"Punch\" and \"Signature\".\n\nAt the 2009 San Diego Comic-Con, Jacobs was a co-recipient of the Bill Finger Award for Excellence in Comic Book Writing.\nJacobs' work appears in most of the \"Mad\" reprint compilations. Two \"Mad\" compendiums containing only reprinted work by Jacobs have been published: \"MAD Zaps the Human Race\" in 1984, and \"Mad's Greatest Writers: Frank Jacobs - Five Decades of His Greatest Works\" in 2015. \n\nHe wrote 13 paperback books of new material under the \"Mad\" brand name: \n\nJacobs also contributed scripts to Don Martin's original paperbacks. In 2000, he provided the commentary for \"'Mad' Cover to Cover,\" a book of the magazine's cover images.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1988108", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988108", "title": "Detective Investigation Files Series", "text": "Detective Investigation Files Series\n\nDetective Investigation Files (刑事偵緝檔案) is a TV series in Hong Kong about detectives, produced by TVB. The series had four installments, spanning from 1995 to 1999.\n\nThe first (1995), second (1995), and third (1997) installments starring:\n\nThe fourth installment (1999) is a complete reboot of the series, with new cast led by: \n\nThere are some who suggested that the entire franchise is a blatant ripoff of the popular Manga Kindaichi Case Files.\n\nThe entire series franchise is considered to be the bloodiest ever made by TVB. The series, which mostly deals with murder investigation, among other matters, featured more than 40 murder victims in its four installments. This would mean that there is a murder committed every 100 minutes.\n\nThe VCDs of Detective Investigation Files I - IV are now available worldwide.\n"}
{"id": "1988109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988109", "title": "Koottickal", "text": "Koottickal\n\nKoottickal is a Town at the base of Western Ghats mountain ranges in the Kottayam district, Kerala. It is above sea level and is situated on the eastern border of Kottayam District, 55 km from Kottayam, and around 5 km away from Mundakayam on the NH 220 (Kottayam–Kumily Road). There are streams and waterfalls in the surrounding places. The Muthukora Hills (2500 ft above MSL) are nearby. Urban centres in Kottayam and Ernakulam districts can be viewed from the top of Muthukora Hills.\n\nThis village is situated on the banks of Manimala River; Kuttikkanam, Peermade and Thekkady Forest Reserve are close by. St. George's High School is one of the oldest high schools in the Kottayam district.\n\nRubber is a prime crop in Koottickal, one of the first places in India where it was cultivated. The Irish planter, John Joseph Murphy nurtured his rubber plantations here. The tomb of Murphy is situated atop the nearby hillock in Yendayaar. The old-world charm of British plantations is still around, with purity of village life. It is one of the most beautiful places in Kottayam district.\n\nKoottickal can be reached from Kochi and Thiruvananthapuram International Airports via Kottayam. All the buses to Elamkadu and Yendayar pass through Koottickal.\n\n1. Vettickanam KCMLPS\n\n2. St. George's HS\n\n3. CMS LPS\n\n4. KMJ Public School\n\n5. Little Buds SNDP EMS\n\n1. St. George Catholic Forane Church, Koottickal \n\n2. St Luke's CSI Church, Koottickal \n\n3. St Mary's Orthodox Church, Koottickal \n\n1. Palakkunnu Sreedarmasastha Temple, 3 rd mile, Koottickal\n\n2. Thalunkal Devi Temple, Koottickal\n\n1. Koottickal Muhyadheen Juma Masjid\n\n\nAC Volvo bus service is available from Technopark to Mundakayam, by KSRTC.\n\nCochin International Airport\n\nKottayam\n"}
{"id": "1988111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988111", "title": "Tom Koch", "text": "Tom Koch\n\nThomas Freeman Koch (May 13, 1925 – March 22, 2015) was an American humorist and writer. He wrote for \"Mad Magazine\" for 37 years.\n\nKoch was born in Charleston, Illinois, and spent his youth in Indianapolis before attending Northwestern University. He published a book of poetry, \"I'll Remember Indiana\", in 1948, and a book about Indiana basketball, \"Tournament Trail\", in 1950. Later with \"Mad\" he published four books under the magazine's imprint. Koch moved to California in 1957, and was married three times.\n\nKoch was also one of the primary writers for radio performers Bob and Ray. It was this association that brought him to the attention of \"Mad\" when some of the show's scripts were reproduced in the magazine with caricatures of the star duo drawn by Mort Drucker. \"Mad\" eventually published ten Bob & Ray articles in the space of a year and a half, but Koch went on to write more than 300 other pieces for the magazine between 1958 and 1995 on a variety of subjects.\n\nKoch was a staff writer for Dave Garroway's \"Monitor\" program, turning out 100 pages of material per week, when he was asked by NBC in 1955 to write spot scripts for Bob and Ray's guest appearances. Recalled Koch, \"The network preferred to have something written down so they knew what was going out on the air. So I wrote ten spots and they used eight of them. So I sent them ten more and they never did reject another one... I just kind of fell into it.\" He ended up writing nearly 3,000 comedy pieces for the duo. Among Koch's sketches were the Slow Talkers of America, the Parsley Society of America, Mr. Science, and episodes of \"The Gathering Dusk,\" a soap opera parody starring Edna Bessinger, \"a girl who's found unhappiness by hunting for it where others have failed to look.\" \"Tom's stuff couldn't have been more on the button,\" said Bob Elliott. \"Everything he did was funny. he was a gold mine of funny thoughts and exactly what we needed to punctuate what we had already been doing.\"\n\n\"It always started out fairly straight,\" said Koch. \"You didn't know it was humor and it would just slowly veer off into something that was hilariously funny. Some people didn't think it was funny at all.\" Through all of it, he never had a contract with Bob and Ray; \"Sometimes they would give me money and sometimes they wouldn't,\" said Koch. Like many radio performers, Bob and Ray did not credit their writers; Elliott later wrote, \"I feel we didn’t give him a real shake that he should have had.\"\n\nKoch's professional association with the duo lasted 33 years, though contact was infrequent. Bob Elliott recalled that he and Ray Goulding would only learn where their ongoing storyline segments were headed next by ripping open the envelopes mailed in by Koch: \"It was great when the Tom Koch package arrived.\" Following Koch's death, Elliott told the New York Times that he had only met Koch three times, and that Goulding had met him just once.\n\nHe wrote his spots from his home in Indiana, and later, California, where he also wrote for television shows starring George Gobel, Tennessee Ernie Ford, Dinah Shore, Pat Paulsen, Dick van Dyke, and Jonathan Winters. Koch also wrote for \"The Lucy Show\", \"Petticoat Junction\", \"My World and Welcome to It\", \"My Mother the Car\", and \"All in the Family.\" Koch's script for the Bob and Ray special \"A Cure for California\" won an Emmy Award. Koch played a bit part as a janitor on \"Mary Hartman, Mary Hartman\"; Koch said, \"I didn't like it at all... It scared the wits out of me.\"\n\nLongtime \"Mad\" editor Nick Meglin called Koch a \"natural fit\" for the magazine. \"He was such a polished writer, a very literate craftsman with a far-ranging wit that ran the gamut from hilarious absurdity to wry, brilliant commentary... He had stuff no one else was doing.\"\nAs with Bob and Ray, Koch wrote from home and only rarely visited the \"Mad\" offices. When he did, \"he wore a shirt and a tie and a business suit,\" recalled Meglin. \"He was conservative; very smart mustache and trimmed hair, and we're walking around with jeans and sneakers and sweatshirts and stuff.\"\n\nDiscussing his career, Koch said, \"People would say I must have had such a great life doing this, people who were engineers, doctors, insurance salesmen or whatever. But it was the kind of work where every morning I would wake up and think, ‘My God, I wonder if I can do it again today.’ There is no way you prepare to do it, or even know how you do it.\"\n\nIn 1965, \"Mad\" #95 included \"43-Man Squamish\", written by Koch and illustrated by George Woodbridge. The absurdist article detailed the convoluted rules of an imaginary sport, and made enough of an impression to be mentioned in both men's \"New York Times\" obituaries, including the first sentence of Koch's.\n\nIn the article, new terminology is introduced with no explanation; much of the humor derives from the reader's half-successful attempts at gleaning a meaning from context. Exactly what everyone on the team is supposed to do, exactly what penalties apply, and exactly when or why the \"yellow caution flag\" is to be flown remains far from clear, even after repeated readings.\n\nEach team consists of one left and one right Inside Grouch, one left and one right Outside Grouch, four Deep Brooders, four Shallow Brooders, five Wicket Men, three Offensive Niblings, four Quarter-Frummerts, two Half-Frummerts, one Full-Frummert, two Overblats, two Underblats, nine Back-Up Finks, two Leapers and a Dummy—for a total of 43. The game officials are a Probate Judge (dressed as a British judge, with wig), a Field Representative (in a Scottish kilt), a Head Cockswain (in long overcoat), and a Baggage Smasher (dressed as a male beachgoer in pre–World War I years). None of the officials has any authority after play has begun.\n\nSquamish is played on a pentagonal field, or Flutney, and the game is divided into a period of 15 minutes, known as an Ogre. Most squamish games consist of seven Ogres, unless of course, it rains. In that case, they are to play eight Ogres. Competitors wear gloves, a helmet, and flippers. They pursue the Pritz (or ball), which is inches in diameter, constructed from untreated ibex hide, and is stuffed with blue jay feathers. Each player is equipped with a Frullip, a long hooked stick very similar in appearance to a shepherd's crook that is used to impede opponents.\n\nBefore any game, the Probate Judge must first flip a coin, usually a new Spanish peseta, while the Visiting Captain guesses the toss. If he guesses correctly, the game is cancelled immediately. If not, the Home Team Captain must then decide if he wishes to play offense or defense first. Play begins after a frullip is touched to the flutney and the recitation \"Mi tío es enfermo, pero la carretera es verde!\", a wise old Chilean saying that means, \"My uncle is sick but the highway is green!\" Penalties are applied for infractions such as walling the Pritz, icing on fifth snivel, running with the mob, rushing the season, inability to face facts, or sending the Dummy home early.\n\nThe offensive team has five Snivels to advance to the enemy goal. Carrying the Pritz across the goal line is a Woomik and scores 17 points; hitting it across with the frullip counts as a Durmish and only scores 11 points. Except in the 7th Ogre (and the 8th, if it rains), only the offensive Niblings and Overblats are allowed to score. In such cases, the four Quarter-Frummerts are allowed to kick or throw the Pritz, and the nine Finks are allowed to heckle the opposition by doing imitations of Barry Goldwater.\n\nThe teams must play a sudden-death overtime to break a tie, unless both Left Overblats are out of the game on personal fouls. If this is the case, the tie is settled by the teams lining up on opposite sides of the flutney (inherently difficult on a pentagonal shape) and shouting dirty limericks at each other until one side breaks up laughing.\n\nWhen an insufficient number of players precludes a regulation 43-Man Squamish match, a simplified version may be played: 2-Man Squamish. The rules are identical, except in 2-Man Squamish, the object is to lose.\n\nAlthough writer Koch intended the game to be completely unplayable, some colleges even attempted to form teams and play the game. The letters column to \"Mad\" #97 included several \"team photos\" and accounts from new acolytes of the sport. A student from Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute issued a public challenge to Harvard, while athletes from the University of Alberta exulted that \"we happen to be the only undefeated Squamish team in Western Canada, mainly because we are the only team in Western Canada, and we haven't played a game. We can't understand why we have no opposition.\" A letter from the Athletic Committee of Marquette University reported that three of its Squamish players had been suspended for \"sportsmanlike conduct\".\n\nThere is a brief reference to 43-Man Squamish as a \"Trivial Pursuit\" question in the \"Weird Al\" Yankovic video \"White and Nerdy\" (2006).\n\nIn \"Endymion\", by Dan Simmons, the narrator describes himself dodging pursuers \"like a deep brooder on a forty-three man squamish team herding the goat in for the goal.\"\n\nFor \"Mad\" issue #241 (Sept. 1983) Koch followed up with a similarly unplayable boardgame which he named \"Three Cornered Pitney\". The four pages of rules featured illustrations by Jack Davis.\n\n"}
{"id": "1988112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988112", "title": "Mantis (comics)", "text": "Mantis (comics)\n\nMantis, in comics, may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1988113", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988113", "title": "Juan Pizarro (baseball)", "text": "Juan Pizarro (baseball)\n\nJuan Pizarro a.k.a. \"Terín\" (born February 7, 1937) is a former Major League Baseball (MLB) pitcher. He played for 18 seasons on 9 teams, from 1957 through 1974. In 1964, he won 19 games (19–9) and pitched 4 shutouts for the Chicago White Sox. He also was an All-Star player in 1963 and 1964.\n\nPizarro (birth name:Juan Ramon Pizarro Cordova ) was born in Santurce, Puerto Rico. He began his baseball career in 1955 in Puerto Rico as a pitcher for the \"Cangrejeros de Santurce\". During the 1957–1958 Winter League of Puerto Rico of the Liga de Béisbol Profesional de Puerto Rico (Puerto Rico Baseball League), he played for the \"Criollos de Caguas\" and was selected as the Most Valuable Player of the season. From 1959 to 1960 he pitched for the last time in Puerto Rico for the \"Cangrejeros del Santurce\".\n\nPizarro signed with the Milwaukee Braves as an amateur free agent in 1956. After going 27–6 with a 2.06 earned run average in the minors, he made his major league debut on May 4, 1957 against the Pittsburgh Pirates at 20 years of age. He pitched seven strong innings, giving up only one run, however, the Braves managed only two hits off opposing pitcher Vern Law, and Pizzarro lost his debut, 1–0. For the season, he went 5–6 with a 4.62 ERA. The Braves beat the New York Yankees in a seven-game World Series that year; Pizarro's only appearance came in Milwaukee's 12–3 loss in game three.\n\nHe split 1958 between Milwaukee and the triple A Wichita Braves, and was again included on the Braves' post-season roster as they faced the Yankees in the World Series for the second year in a row. This time the Yankees won the Series in seven games. Pizarro's only appearance again came in a loss in game five.\n\nPizarro remained with the Braves through 1960, compiling a 23–19 record and 3.93 ERA in Milwaukee. On December 15, 1960, he was traded with Joey Jay to the Cincinnati Reds for Roy McMillan, then immediately sent by the Reds with Cal McLish to the Chicago White Sox for Gene Freese.\n\nPizarro enjoyed his greatest success as a member of the White Sox. In 1961, despite being the youngest pitcher in the starting rotation, Pizarro emerged as the staff's ace, leading the Chisox with fourteen wins, 188 strikeouts and 194.2 innings pitched. He also made fourteen appearances out of the bullpen, and earned his first career save on August 27. He was given the opening day nod in 1962, and pitched a complete game 2–1 victory over the Los Angeles Angels. In 1963, he was named to the American League All-Star roster, and pitched a scoreless seventh inning during the All-Star Game.\n\nPizarro's best season was 1964, when he went 19–9 with a 2.56 ERA and four shutouts. Coincidentally, it was also his best season with the bat, as he batted .211 with a career high three home runs and career high fifteen runs batted in.\n\nFrom there, things rapidly deteriorated for him. Injuries limited Pizarro to just eighteen starts in 1965. In 1966, he was used primarily in relief. Despite a respectable 8–6 record and 3.76 ERA in 34 appearances, he pitched only 88.2 innings. Following the season, he was purchased by the Pittsburgh Pirates.\n\nThough he made nine starts for the 1967 Pirates, he was mainly a relief pitcher, earning a career high nine saves. He was limited to \"mop up duty\" by manager Larry Shepard in 1968. He appeared in twelve games with the Pirates prior to being placed on waivers; eleven were losses. The one win, Pizarro entered the game with the Pirates trailing, and earned the win himself.\n\nThe Boston Red Sox claimed Pizarro off waivers on June 27. He was used primarily as a starter in Boston, going 6–6 with six complete games as a starter. He also earned two saves for the Bosox. At the start of the 1969 season, he, Dick Ellsworth and Ken Harrelson were sent to the Cleveland Indians for Joe Azcue, Vicente Romo and Sonny Siebert. Toward the end of the season, he was placed on waivers and claimed by the Oakland Athletics.\n\nAfter beginning the 1970 season with Oakland's triple A affiliate, Pizarro was released and signed a minor league contract with the California Angels. He was 9–0 for the Hawaii Islanders when the Angels dealt him to the Chicago Cubs for Archie Reynolds.\n\nOn September 11, 1971, he shut out the St. Louis Cardinals at Wrigley Field. In his next start, he shutout Tom Seaver and the New York Mets 1–0 at Shea Stadium. The one run was a solo shot by Pizarro in the eighth inning. Seaver had won seven in a row at that point. His previous loss came on August 1, also courtesy of a complete game by Pizarro. It would be more than 40 years before another starting pitcher broke a 0–0 tie by hitting a home run in the eighth inning or later: Clayton Kershaw of the Dodgers did this, also in the eighth inning, on Opening Day 2013.\n\nFor the 1971 season, Pizarro went 7–6 with a 3.46 ERA. He was 4–5 with a 3.94 ERA in 1972. He spent most of the first half of the 1973 season assigned to the Cubs' triple A affiliate, the Wichita Aeros. After a blown save against the Atlanta Braves on June 17, Pizarro was placed on waivers. He was claimed by the Houston Astros on July 8.\n\nPizarro was 2–2 with a 6.56 ERA out of Houston's bullpen in 1973. He was released the following Spring, and rejoined the Pittsburgh Pirates. The Pirates won the National League East by a game and a half over the St. Louis Cardinals, allowing Pizarro to return to the post season for the first time since 1958. His only appearance in the 1974 National League Championship Series came in the fourth game, which the Los Angeles Dodgers won to head to the 1974 World Series.\n\nLooking at his entire professional career, Pizarro won more than 400 ballgames. His regular-season count is 392: 197 in the US (131 in the majors and 66 in the minors), plus 38 more in Mexico in his late 30s and 157 while playing winter ball in his homeland. His final record in Puerto Rico was 157–110, with a superb 2.51 ERA. Only Rubén Gómez had more wins (174, and he needed 29 seasons to do it). Pizarro pitched 2,403 innings, again second behind Gomez, and allowed just 1,980 hits. He is the PRWL's all-time leader in strikeouts (1,804) and shutouts (46), marks that will almost certainly never be challenged.\n\nPizarro was inducted into the Hall of Fame of the Caribbean Confederation and the Puerto Rican Sports Hall of Fame.\n\nPizarro had a .202 lifetime batting average (133-658) with 8 home runs, 72 runs scored and 66 RBIs.\n\n\n, or Baseball Almanac\n"}
{"id": "1988114", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988114", "title": "XLispStat", "text": "XLispStat\n\nXLispStat is a statistical scientific package based on the XLISP language.\n\nMany free statistical software like ARC (nonlinear curve fitting problems) and ViSta are based on this package.\n\nIt includes a variety of statistical functions and methods, including routines for nonlinear curve fit. Many add-on packages have been developed to extend XLispStat, including contingency tables and regression analysis\n\nXLispStat has seen usage in many fields, including astronomy, GIS, speech acoustics, econometrics, and epidemiology.\nXLispStat was historically influential in the field of statistical visualization.\nIts author, Luke Tierney, wrote a 1990 book on it.\nXLispStat dates to the late 1980s/early 1990s and probably saw its greatest popularity in the early-to-mid 1990s with greatly declining usage since. In the 1990s it was in very widespread use in statistical education, but has since been mostly replaced by R. There is a paper explaining why UCLA's Department of Statistics abandoned it in 1998, and their reasons for doing so likely hold true for many other of its former users.\n\nSource code to XLispStat is available under a permissive license (similar terms to BSD)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1988124", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988124", "title": "Wawel Castle", "text": "Wawel Castle\n\nThe Wawel Castle (; \"Zamek Królewski na Wawelu\") is a castle residency located in central Kraków, Poland, and the first UNESCO World Heritage Site in the world. Built at the behest of King Casimir III the Great, it consists of a number of structures from different periods situated around the Italian-styled main courtyard. The castle, being one of the largest in Poland, represents nearly all European architectural styles of medieval, renaissance and baroque periods. The Wawel Royal Castle and the Wawel Hill constitute the most historically and culturally significant site in the country.\n\nThe castle is part of a fortified architectural complex erected atop a limestone outcrop on the left bank of the Vistula River, at an altitude of 228 metres above sea level. The complex consists of numerous buildings of great historical and national importance, including the Wawel Cathedral where Polish monarchs were crowned and buried. Some of Wawel's oldest stone buildings can be traced back to 970 AD, in addition to the earliest examples of Romanesque and Gothic architecture in Poland. The current castle was built in the 14th-century, and expanded over the next hundreds of years. In 1978 Wawel was declared the first World Heritage Site as part of the Historic Centre of Kraków.\n\nFor centuries the residence of the kings of Poland and the symbol of Polish statehood, Wawel Castle is now one of the country's premier art museums. Established in 1930, the museum encompasses ten curatorial departments responsible for collections of paintings, including an important collection of Italian Renaissance paintings, prints, sculpture, textiles, among them the Sigismund II Augustus tapestry collection, goldsmith's work, arms and armor, ceramics, Meissen porcelain, and period furniture. The museum's holdings in oriental art include the largest collection of Ottoman tents in Europe. With seven specialized conservation studios, the museum is also an important center for the conservation of works of art.\n\nThe history of Wawel is deeply intertwined with the history of the Polish lands and Polish royal dynasties already in the Middle Ages. The political and dynastic tensions that led to the ascendance of Kraków as the royal seat are sophisticated, but for most of the Middle Ages and the Renaissance Wawel was the seat of the national government and the Diet (assembly). As the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth formed and grew, Wawel became the seat of one of Europe's largest and most important states. This status was only lost when the capital was moved to Warsaw in 1596 (designated officially in 1793). \n\nFrom the late 18th century, when Poland lost its independence during the period of foreign partitions, Wawel became a symbol of endurance and was the setting for demonstrations and gatherings of Cracovians protesting against the continuing foreign occupation by the Austrian, Prussian, and the Russian Empires. Thus, the significance of the Wawel Hill comes in part from its combination of political and religious significance. The Cathedral holds the relics of St. Stanislaus and stands directly adjacent to the Royal Castle. The Hill has a long history of religious functions; some of the oldest extant architectural remains are those of the Rotunda of the Virgin Mary.\n\nThe hill which takes the form of a horst originated in the Miocene epoch (23–25 million years ago) and consists of Jurassic limestone dating back to the Oxfordian age (155–161 million years ago). This limestone is strongly karsted and abounds in caves (e.g. the Dragon's Den—Smocza Jama). This possibly explains why the hill was originally called \"wąwel\", meaning ravine in Polish. This ravine once divided the hill. An alternative theory is that the word means 'protrusion from the marshes' which surrounded the hill. However, the most recent theory is that \"Wawel\" is a regular continuation of the name Babel in the Greek language (the consonant [B] followed by [V]/[W]).\n\nThe Wawel Hill has archaeological remains indicating settlement from the 4th century. Archeological studies suggest that the earliest settlement dates back to the Middle Paleolithic era, c. 100,000 years BC and owed its rapid development to its location being the crossing of a number of key trading routes. Wawel is believed to be one of the strongholds of the Vistulan tribe which formed a nation at the turn of the 8th and 9th century AD. Its legendary rulers Krakus and Princess Wanda, who are said to have lived in the 7th and 8th centuries, are mentioned by the 13th-century chronicler Wincenty Kadłubek. In the 10th century, the Vistulans’ lands and Kraków became part of the emerging state of Poland.\n\nIn the year 1000, the Kraków diocese was established followed by the construction of a Cathedral – the seat of the bishop. However, as a result of an ongoing conflict with the Holy Roman Empire, construction did not begin until the signing of the Peace of Bautzen, in 1018. Only minor fragments remain of the original cathedral (which is sometimes called ‘Chrobrowska’ after Bolesław I the Brave) and despite extensive archaeological research, it has proved impossible to reconstruct its exterior. Until the 1980s, relicts of St Gereon's Church were identified with the first cathedral but this theory, advanced by Adolf Szyszko-Bohusz, has been disproved by more recent research. There are also inconsistencies in the dating of the destruction of the original cathedral. Some sources place this at the time of the invasion of Bretislaus I of Bohemia in the 1040s, while others date the destruction to a fire in the 1080s.\n\nIn addition to the cathedral, the hill was also the site of other building work. The earliest evidence is of wooden structures dating from the 9th century, with the earliest stone buildings dating to the 10th and 11th centuries; the remains of the following buildings date from this era: the Rotunda of the Blessed Virgin Mary – probably from the turn of the 10th and 11th century; Church B (the earliest parts originate from the 10th century); Church of St Gereon (probably the palace chapel); the Church of St. George; the Church of St Michael; the Twenty-Four Pillar Room (possibly part of the Ducal Mansion); the Keep and the Residential Tower.\n\nFrom this early period of the Wawel's history originates the popular and enduring Polish myth of the Wawel Dragon. Today, it is commemorated on the lower slopes of the Wawel Hill where by the river, is a modern fire-breathing metal statue of the dragon. The statue is sited in front of Smocza Jama (Dragon's Den), one of the limestone caves scattered over the hill. The dragon, Smok Wawelski, was a mystical beast which supposedly terrorised the local community, eating their sheep and local virgins, before (according to one version) being heroically slain by Krakus, a legendary Polish prince, who supposedly founded the city of Kraków and built his palace above the slain dragon's lair. The oldest known literary reference to the Wawel dragon comes from the 12th century, in the work by Wincenty Kadłubek.\n\nBetween 1038 and 1039 Duke Casimir I the Restorer returned to Poland and it's believed that Kraków first became a royal residence and the capital of Poland at this time.\n\nAt the end of the 11th century, construction work began on a replacement cathedral, today called \"Hermanowska\" as it's likely that Władysław I Herman was its patron. The new cathedral was consecrated in 1142. Quite a lot is known about the building because an image of it is engraved on a 13th-century chapterhouse seal, and some of its remains and foundations are well preserved; besides the lower of the Silver Bell Tower, the trinavel St. Leonard's Crypt, the rotunda by the Bastion of Ladislaus IV of Hungary (once a baptistery and the rotunda by the Sandomierska Tower all date from this era, as does a church near the Dragon's Cave.\n\nIn 1118 Bishop Maurus was buried in the crypt. The paten and the chalice, buried with the bishop, were later exhumed from his tomb during its accidental discovery in 1938. \n\nThe Silver Bell Tower (originally known as the Wikaryjska or Priest Tower) dates from the early 12th century and is the oldest of the Wawel's many towers. However the tower has many later additions and only the 12-metre-high rectangular base can be dated as belonging to the 11th-century Hermanowska Cathedral. The belfry was constructed in the final quarter of the 14th century and the spire in 1769. The tower contains three bells; the largest was made in 1423, the next largest around 1271 and the smallest in 1669. In the foundations of the tower is a burial vault containing the remains of notable Poles from all periods of history. Other notables are also buried at the nearby Skałka Church.\n\nAround 1305 to 1306, the Hermanowska Cathedral was partially destroyed by a fire; however, the coronation of King Władysław I the Elbow-high, in 1320, was still able to take place within its precincts. In the same year construction of a third cathedral, consecrated in 1364, began at the King's behest, the key elements of this cathedral are preserved today.\n\nThe cathedral is trinavel in construction and surrounded by side-chapels, added in later centuries. The earliest of these chapels were built off the chancel; St Margarita's chapel was consecrated (today it acts as a sacristy) in 1322 and few years the chapel, later to be known as the Báthory Chapel, was completed. The cathedral's west entrance is flanked by two chapels; one dedicated to Queen Sophia (last wife of Władysław II Jagiełło) and the second to the Holy Cross; these were built during the reign of Casimir IV Jagiellon (1440–1492); the former is notable for its polychrome vaulted ceiling. From the close of the 15th century, a further nineteen side-chapels were built or rebuilt.\n\nWładysław I the Elbow-high was the first king to be buried in the cathedral in 1333. His sandstone sarcophagus was set up by his son and successor, Casimir III the Great, the last King of Poland from the Piast dynasty. The cathedral also contains the tombs of Casimir III the Great and Jogaila but the most precious is that of Casimir IV Jagiellon, carved by Veit Stoss in 1492. The late Gothic tombstone of John I Albert was carved at the beginning of the 16th century and is attributed to Jorg Huber. The cathedral also contains memorials to Stephen Báthory and bishop Fillip Padniewski – both designed by Santi Gucci and also the tombstone of bishop Andrzej Zebrzydowski designed by Jan Michalowicz from Urzedow. During the 20th century, the cathedral became the site of Karol Wojtyla's priesthood ordination in 1946 and bishop ordination in 1958 as Kraków's auxiliary bishop.\n\nLittle is known of the first royal residences at the Wawel until Casimir III the Great, who reigned from 1333 until 1370, had a Gothic castle erected next to the cathedral; this consisted of multiple structures situated around a central courtyard. In the 14th century it was rebuilt by King Władysław II Jagiełło (also known as Jogaila) and Queen Jadwiga of Poland. The Hen's Foot Tower, built upon three projecting buttresses resembling a chicken foot, and the Danish Tower date from their reigns, as do the Jadwiga and Jogaila Chamber, in which the Polish coronation sword (Szczerbiec) is exhibited.\n\nDuring this period, the Wawel began to take its present appearance and size as further buildings were developed on the hill to serve as quarters for the numerous clergy, royal clerks, troops, servants and craftsmen; this work included defensive walls, ramparts and the ‘Jordanka,’ ‘Lubranka,’ ‘Sandomierska,’ ‘Tęczyńska,’ ‘Szlachecka,’ ‘Złodziejska’ and ‘Panieńska’ towers.\n\nThe reign of the last member of the Jagiellonian dynasty, Sigismund I the Old, was a high point in Wawel fortunes. Following another fire in 1499, from 1507 to 1536, Sigismund rebuilt the royal residence. King Sigismund had spent part of his youth at the court of his brother, King Vladislaus of Hungary and Bohemia in Buda; this court has a small band of Italian artisans pioneering the Renaissance movement, at that time little known outside of Florence. Thus inspired Sigismund took the decision to rebuild in the Renaissance style within the walls of the old castle. A great influence on the king was his second wife, Italian-born Bona Sforza. She brought in the best native and foreign artists including Italian architects, sculptors, and German decorators, to refurbish the castle into a splendid Renaissance palace. \n\nWork on the new \"avant-garde\" palace was initially supervised by two artisans from Italy: Francisco from Florence and Bartolommeo Berrecci, and after their deaths by Benedykt from Sandomierz. A feature of the rebuilding were the large, light rooms which open from tiered arcades lining a courtyard. The new rooms and halls included the ornate Deputy Hall with its coffered ceiling, exemplifying the skills of both Italian and Polish craftsmen. To decorate the palace's rooms, Sigismund (and later his son) purchased over 350 tapestries, collectively known as the Jagiellonian tapestries; they were woven in the Netherlands and Flanders; many based on designs by Michiel Coxie.\n\nWhile the arcaded courtyard is considered a fine example of Renaissance art, it has subtle eccentricities—hints of Polish Gothic within its form, a steeply hipped and projecting roof (necessary in a northern climate) counterbalancing the soaring affect created by the uppermost arcade being higher than those below (a feature unknown in Italy) to give the courtyard a uniquely Polish renaissance look. The extra height of the uppermost arcade is truly unusual as it indicates and places the piano nobile on the third floor, whereas the rules of Italian Renaissance architecture place it on the second floor; again this indicates that while the design was inspired by Italians, the Polish artistic and cultural tradition was not extinguished in the execution.\n\nAfter a fire in 1595 when the north-east part of the castle burned down, King Sigismund III Vasa decided to have it rebuilt with the work carried out under the direction of the Italian architect Giovanni Trevano. The Senator Stairs and the fireplace in the Bird Room date from this period. However, the castle still retains many of the earlier interiors designed by Berrecci. While many have been altered through neglect, war damage and, after World War II, through overenthusiastic restoration, the spirit of Berrecci's Renaissance ideals mingled with the Gothic motifs of local craftsmen still remains. The Ambassadors' Hall still retains much of its timber carving, most notable its coffered ceiling with thirty Gothic style carved heads by Sebastian Tauerbach.\n\nIn the 17th century, Wawel became an important defensive point and was modernised and heavily fortified. Later, the transfer of power to Warsaw did not change the symbolic role and importance of the Wawel Cathedral, which was still the place of royal coronations.\n\nDuring this period, many changes were introduced in the Cathedral – the high altar was remodelled, the cloister was elevated and the Shrine of St Stanislaus (a marble altar and a silver coffin) and the Vasa Chapel were constructed. Baroque memorials were also erected, among others were tombs to bishops Marcin Szyszkowski, Piotr Gembicki, Jan Małachowski, Kazimierz Lubieński and kings Michael I and John III Sobieski.\n\nIn 1517, the 16-year-long construction of another chapel adjoining the cathedral began. Sigismund's Chapel (\"Kaplica Zygmuntowska\") was to serve as the mausoleum of the last members of the Jagiellonian dynasty. Later, at the turn of the 16th century, a memorial tablet to John I Albert was placed in a niche sculptured by Francesco Fiorentino; this is considered to be the first Renaissance work of art in Poland. Other memorials from this period include those of Cardinal Frederic Jagiellon and of bishops Piotr Gamrat, Piotr Tomicki, Jan Konarski, Jan Chojeński and Samuel Maciejowski.\n\nThe chapel is considered one of the most notable examples of architecture in Kraków, it has been hailed by many art historians as \"the most beautiful example of Tuscan renaissance north of the Alps\". Financed by King Sigismund, the chapel was designed by Bartolomeo Berrecci. It is square-based with a golden dome and houses the tombs of its founder as well as King Sigismund II Augustus of Poland and Queen Anna. The design of the internal sculptures, stuccoes and paintings was carried out by some of the most renowned artists of the era, including Santi Gucci, Hermann Vischer, and the architect himself, Georg Pencz.\n\nIn 1520 the Royal Sigismund Bell was cast, by Hans Behem, in bronze; it is the largest of the five bells hanging in the Sigismund Tower and was named to honour King Sigismund I the Old. It weighs almost 13 tonnes (28 thousand pounds) and requires 12 bell-ringers to toll it. It's rung only on special occasions, mostly religious and national holidays, and is regarded as one of the country's national symbols. The hanging of the bell is the subject of a painting by Jan Matejko.\n\nThe 18th and 19th centuries were to be a period of decline and misfortune for Wawel. The decline had begun as early as 1609, when King Sigismund III moved permanently to Warsaw. Despite the concerns of successive governors, both the castle and its precincts began to fall into ruin, which was in part due to occupying Swedes between 1655–1657 and again in 1702.\n\nThe decline worsened drastically when the hill was occupied by the Prussian army in 1794; at this time, the royal insignia were looted (apart from the Polish coronation sword) and taken to Berlin, where they were melted down for their gold, precious gemstones and pearls, which were handed to the Directorate of Maritime Trade in Berlin.\n\nAfter the Third Partition of Poland (1795), Wawel fell under Austrian rule. Austrian soldiers converted the hill into barracks and as a consequence, much destruction and alteration took place: the Renaissance arcades of the courtyard were walled up, the interior of the castle was changed and parts of the buildings were demolished; amongst the buildings destroyed were the churches of St. Michael and St. George.\n\nFollowing the unsuccessful Kraków Uprising and the fall of the Republic of Kraków, three large buildings housing a military hospital were built on the hill. During the latter half of the 19th century the Austrians rebuilt the defence walls, making them a part of the expanded Kraków fortification system (two new caponiers were made). At the same time, the Poles tried to retake the hill.\n\nIn 1815, the funeral of Prince Józef Poniatowski took place at Wawel Cathedral. Since that event, national heroes have been entombed within the cathedral; prior to this date, only bodies of monarchs were interred there. In 1818, the body of national hero Tadeusz Kościuszko was buried in St. Leonard's Crypt. During the reconstruction of Potocki Chapel in a classical style, the statue of Prince Arthur Potocki by the Danish sculptor Bertel Thorvaldsen was placed within the chapel. A second work by Thorvaldsen was placed in Queen Sophia's Chapel.\n\nIn 1869, due to the accidental opening of the coffin of King Casimir III, a second funeral was performed. Consequently, an initiative was taken to renovate other monarchs’ tombs in the cathedral. The underground crypts were connected with tunnels, sarcophagi were cleaned and refurbished and new ones were funded. Emperor Franz Joseph I of Austria paid for a sarcophagus for King Michael, whose wife was from the House of Habsburg.\n\nIn 1905, Emperor Franz Joseph I of Austria, in his capacity as King of Galicia and Lodomeria, ordered his troops to leave Wawel. The Austrian withdrawal permitted the commencement of restoration work managed by Zygmunt Hendel and Adolf Szyszko-Bohusz. During the renovation, the Rotunda of Virgin Mary was discovered as well as other notable relics of the past. The renovation of the Wawel Hill was funded by public subscription. The names of the donors were inscribed on the bricks used to build the wall near the castle's northern gateway. The Coat of Arms Gate was built at this time and the statue of Tadeusz Kościuszko was placed nearby.\n\nBetween 1902 and 1904, Włodzimierz Tetmajer decorated the walls of Queen Sophia's Chapel with paintings depicting Polish saints and national heroes.\n\nJózef Mehoffer painted murals in the vault of the cathedral and created stained-glass windows in the St. Cross Chapel as well as paintings in the Szafrańcy Chapel. Mehoffer is also responsible for the stained-glass windows in the transept which depict the Sufferings of Christ and the Virgin Mary.\n\nDuring Poland's twenty years of independence after World War I, Polish authorities decided that the Wawel Castle was to be a representative building of the Polish Republic and would be used an official residence by the State Governor; this position was further re-enforced when, in 1921, the Polish Parliament passed a resolution which gave Wawel official status as the residence of the President of Poland. No legal acts have been issued by the independent Polish authorities redacting this resolution (apart from the decision of the Stalinist State National Council (KRN) to change the Wawel Castle into a museum).\n\nIn 1921 a statue of Tadeusz Kościuszko sculpted by Leandro Marconi and Antoni Popiel was placed on the ramparts of king Władysław IV Vasa on the northside.\n\nIn 1925, a column fragment of Wawel Castle was incorporated into Chicago's landmark Tribune Tower. Located in its own niche over the upper-left corner of the main entrance; it is a visual tribute to Chicago's large Polish populace, the largest such presence outside of the Republic of Poland.\n\nThe tradition of burying notable Polish national in the cathedral has continued into the 21st century: in 1927, the ashes of the romantic poet Juliusz Słowacki were brought to the cathedral, ten years later the statesman and former Leader of Second Polish Republic, Marshal Józef Piłsudski, was interred in a vault beneath the Silver Tower and in 1993 the remains of the World War II military leader Władysław Sikorski were finally returned to Poland for burial in the crypt. More recently, the bodies of President Lech Kaczyński and his wife were entombed in a sarcophagus, in the antechamber of the vault beneath the Silver Bell Tower.\n\nDuring World War II, when Poland was occupied by Nazi Germany, the Wawel Castle was the residence of governor general Hans Frank, later to be executed as a German Nazi war criminal; during his despotic regime Raphael's \"Portrait of a Young Man\" (1513–14), part of the Czartoryski collection, was removed from Wawel and to this day has yet to be returned to Poland. Many of the tapestries have disappeared too, their whereabouts unknown; however, 150 of the tapestries which along with many of the Wawel's other treasures had spent the war years, for safety, in Canada have been returned to the castle and are, today, part of the Wawel Royal Castle National Art Collection on public display along with countless art treasures and items of historical Polish significance.\n\nThe 14th-century former Cathedral house, in the shadow of the Silver Bell Tower, between the Vasa Gate and the former Clerical Seminary, now houses the John Paul II Wawel Cathedral Museum. It was opened in 1978 by Karol Cardinal Wojtyła, Archbishop of Kraków (later Pope John Paul II), and displays many historic Polish artefacts both spiritual and temporal which were formerly kept in the cathedral's treasury.\n\nThe Crown Treasury situated in the historic Gothic rooms which were used from the 15th century on for storing the Polish coronation insignia and Crown Jewels, feature on display priceless objects from the former Treasury that survived plunder, among them the memorabilia of Polish monarchs including members of their families and eminent personages, like the hat and sword given to John III Sobieski by the pope after the Battle of Vienna, as well as the coronation sword Szczerbiec.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1988126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988126", "title": "Pomoan languages", "text": "Pomoan languages\n\nThe Pomoan, or Pomo , languages are a small family of seven languages indigenous to northern California spoken by the Pomo people, who formerly occupied the valley of the Russian River and the Clear Lake basin. Four languages are extinct, and all surviving languages except Kashaya have fewer than ten speakers.\n\nJohn Wesley Powell, who was the first to define the extent of the family, noted that its boundaries were the Pacific Ocean to the west, Wintuan territory in the Sacramento Valley to the east, the head of the Russian River to the north, and Bodega Head and present-day Santa Rosa to the south (Powell 1891:87-88). Only Northeastern Pomo was not contiguous with the other Pomoan languages, being separated by an intervening region of Wintuan speakers.\n\nPomoan is a family of seven languages. Their relationship to one another was first formally recognized by John Wesley Powell, who proposed that they be called the \"Kulanapan Family\" (Powell 1891). Like many of Powell's obscure nomenclatural proposals, particularly for California languages, \"Kulanapan\" was ignored. In its place, Pomo, the term used by Indians and Whites alike for Northern Pomo was arbitrarily extended to include the rest of the family. It was thus as \"Pomo\" that all seven languages were first systematically identified by Samuel Barrett (1908). To avoid complications, Barrett named each of the Pomoan languages according to its geographic position (\"Northern Pomo,\" \"Southeastern Pomo,\" etc.). This naming convention quickly gained wide acceptance and is still in general use, except for the substitution of \"Kashaya\" for Barrett's \"Southwestern Pomo\". Regrettably, however, Barrett's geographical language names often lead those unfamiliar with the Pomoan languages to the misconception that they are dialects of a single \"Pomo\" language.\n\nVarious genetic subgroupings of the family have been proposed, although the general outlines have remained fairly consistent. The current consensus view (cf. Mithun 1999) favors the tree presented in Oswalt (1964), shown below.\n\n\nEssentially identical versions of this classifications are presented in Oswalt and McLendon's \"Introduction\" to the Pomo chapters in Heizer, ed. (1978) and in Campbell (1997). The most important dissenter was Abraham M. Halpern, one of the few linguists since Barrett's time to collect comparative data on all of the Pomoan languages. Halpern's classification differed from Oswalt's mainly in the placement of Northeastern Pomo. Instead of considering it an independent branch of the family, Halpern grouped it with the languages of Oswalt's \"Western\" branch, suggesting the possibility that Northeastern Pomo represents a recent migration of a Northern Pomo subgroup (Halpern 1964; Golla 2011:106-7).\n\nProto-Pomo reconstructions by McLendon (1973):\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1988127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988127", "title": "Arnie Kogen", "text": "Arnie Kogen\n\nArnie Kogen is an American comedy writer and producer. He has written for TV, film, and is a longtime writer for \"Mad Magazine\". Among his hundreds of \"Mad\" bylines, Kogen has written more than 100 film or television parodies.\n\nBorn in Brooklyn, New York City, New York to Jewish parents, Kogen contributed to \"Mad\" soon after college at New York University. He wrote for many of the top stand-up comics of that time including Don Adams, Morty Gunty, and Jan Murray. He moved on to writing for \"Candid Camera\", \"The Les Crane Show\", \"The Jackie Gleason Show\" and \"The Tonight Show Starring Johnny Carson\".\n\nIn 1965 he co-wrote the feature film \"Birds Do It\", starring Soupy Sales.\n\nHe moved to California with his family in 1968. His many variety and sitcom credits include \"The Dean Martin Show\", \"The Carol Burnett Show\", \"The Mary Tyler Moore Show\", \"The Rich Little Show\", \"The Tim Conway Show\", \"The Golden Globes\" (1972–1975), \"Donny and Marie\", \"An Evening at the Improv\", \"Newhart\", \"Empty Nest\", and \"MADtv\".\n\nKogen has written comedy material for many entertainers including Steve and Eydie, Totie Fields, Flip Wilson, Jackie Vernon, Sammy Davis, Jr., Debbie Reynolds, Connie Stevens and Shelley Berman.\n\nKogen has won 3 Emmy Awards (7 nominations) and one WGA Award (3 nominations).\n\nHis son Jay Kogen, also an Emmy-winning comedy writer, was an original writer for the animated television series \"The Simpsons\". His late daughter, Jill Arons, worked at \"The Bingo Bugle\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1988129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988129", "title": "John Caldwell (cartoonist)", "text": "John Caldwell (cartoonist)\n\nJohn I. Caldwell (March 23, 1946 – February 21, 2016) was a nationally syndicated American gag cartoonist primarily known for his work in \"National Lampoon\" and \"Mad\", where he was a member of \"The Usual Gang of Idiots.\"\n\nFollowing his death, The Comics Reporter described him as having had \"one of the most prolific and successful [cartooning] careers of the late 20th Century.\"\n\nCaldwell never received any actual training as a cartoonist, but he attended the Parsons School of Design, where his general art education helped him prepare for a cartooning career. He spent 1969–70 working for the State of New York as a cartographer.\n\nCaldwell's drawings appeared in numerous publications, including \"Writer's Digest\", \"Playboy\", \"Barron's\", the \"New Yorker\", the \"Wall Street Journal\", \"Reader's Digest\" and \"Harvard Business Review\". He designed greeting cards for Recycled Paper Greetings and Nobleworks.\n\nAged 69, Caldwell died February 21, 2016 from cancer. He was survived by his wife Diane, as well as a daughter and grandson.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1988131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988131", "title": "Hermann Mejía", "text": "Hermann Mejía\n\nHermann Mejía (born 1973) is a Venezuelan–American painter and sculptor known for his work for \"Mad\" magazine. He was named by \"HuffPost\" as \"one of 15 famous Venezuelan artists to know\".\n\nHermann Mejía started drawing at a young age. He started collecting comics at age 13, and received his first artist's commission at 15, painting promotional graffiti for musical acts in Caracas. He studied illustration and painting at the Caracas Design Institute. After graduating, he started his career in fine arts with numerous exhibitions in his native Venezuela, both collective and solo. Growing recognition as a vanguard artist landed him a commission to design a series of Venezuelan postage stamps commemorating Pope John Paul II in 1996.\n\nMejía is a prolific artist with a long career of solo and collective exhibitions of both paintings and sculptures, mostly in South America but also in the U.S. His style and technique have been linked to many influences including Francis Bacon, Lucian Freud, the surrealists, and street art. In addition to his artistic career, he has successfully ventured into comic art and commercial art.\n\nUpon having won the first prize in a sequential art contest, Mejia was awarded a trip to New York City, where he met artist George Pratt, who had been one of the Judges of the contest. Pratt took Mejía to the offices of DC Comics, where Mejía was offered a job almost instantly. Through DC, Mejía met Charlie Kochman, Publishing Editor for both DC, which included the satirical humor magazine \"Mad\". Mejía received his first assignment for the April 1997 issue.\nMejía worked for the New York-based \"Mad\" magazine while still living in Venezuela during the next two years. In 1999 Mejía moved to the United States. He received a \"Best in Magazine Feature\" Reuben Award from the National Cartoonists Society in 2003.\n\nMejia works in his studio in Gowanus, Brooklyn, New York. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1988132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988132", "title": "Rick Tulka", "text": "Rick Tulka\n\nRick Tulka (born Brooklyn, New York in 1955) is an illustrator and caricaturist whose work has appeared in \"Mad\" magazine since 1988. He has been living and working in Paris since the mid-1990s.\n\nHe was born in Brooklyn, New York in 1955. Tulka educated at the Brooklyn Museum Art School and the Art Students League of New York, and later majored in illustration at Pratt Institute. He was influenced by such artists as Charles M. Schulz, Winsor McCay, Honoré Daumier, Al Hirschfeld, Edgar Degas, Henri de Toulouse-Lautrec, Vincent Van Gogh, Hans Holbein and Ben Sargent. Since 1976 he began working as a professional illustrator and his first works appeared in Cue Magazine. In 1988 he published his first drawing in Mad magazine and has worked with the magazine since.\n\nIn 1988 he illustrated \"Moonwalker – The Coloring Book\" for children with Michael Jackson. He illustrated articles and specialized in caricatures of celebrities. He did most of his works as a series which had \"narrative sequences\". The most known of these works of him is the 'Six Degrees of Separation' which issued in 1997 for the first time. \"It features satirical links between various celebrities, pop culture characters and phenomena\". In addition to Mad he also drew for the like of People Weekly, Reader's Digest, Money Magazine and Rolling Stone.\n\nIn 1995 he and his wife moved to Paris. In 1998 he was the only courtroom sketch artist to be present at the Augusta-Dassault trial for Belgium’s Le Soir. \"He made a series of caricatures of French politicians which are on permanent exhibition in the Parisian parliament\". In 2015 after the tragic events with the Charlie-Hebdo in Paris he participated in the Peaceful demonstrations that was held to support the journalists. In addition to his personal sketch book which he started in 1973 he gathered a great collection of celebrity caricatures many of which bear signatures of the famous faces themselves. Among his famous caricatures are the likes of Michael Jackson, Elizabeth Taylor, Spike Lee, Mikhail Baryshnikov, Liza Minnelli, Lucille Ball, Stephen Sondheim and Johnny Carson. He also made the book \"Today I Am A Ma’am\" with the actress Valerie Harper in 2001.\n\nIn 2007, he was featured on the \"CBS Sunday Morning\" show in conjunction with the release of the book he co-authored with Noël Riley Fitch, \"Paris Café: The Sélect Crowd\" (Soft Skull Press). Dozens of Tulka's caricatures of Parisians, drawn from life at the historical literary café, Le Sélect, are featured in the book.\n\nHe has cooperated with such United States' media and organizations as The Wall Street Journal, The Madison Square Garden Theater, Harper's Magazine, The Playboy Jazz Festival, \"Michael Jackson/MJJ Productions\" and much more. His works have also appeared in French Le Monde, Marianne, Télérama, \"Famili\", Charlie Hebdo etc.\n\n"}
{"id": "1988134", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988134", "title": "Constantino Brumidi", "text": "Constantino Brumidi\n\nConstantino Brumidi (July 26, 1805 – February 19, 1880) was a Greek-Italian-American historical painter, best known and honored for his fresco work in the Capitol Building in Washington, DC.\n\nBrumidi was born in Rome, his father a Greek from Filiatra in the province of Messinia, Greece, and his mother an Italian. He showed his talent for fresco painting at an early age and painted in several Roman palaces, among them being that of Prince Torlonia. Under Gregory XVI he worked for three years in the Vatican.\n\nThe occupation of Rome by French forces in 1849 apparently persuaded Brumidi to emigrate, having joined the short-lived risorgimental Roman Republic, and he sailed for the United States, where he became a naturalized citizen in 1852. Taking up his residence in New York City, the artist painted a number of portraits. \n\nIn 1854 Brumidi went to Mexico, where he painted an allegorical representation of the Holy Trinity for the altarpiece of the Mexico City Metropolitan Cathedral. Brumidi subsequently created several works for St. Stephen's Church in New York, including an altarpiece (1855) and murals (1866 and 1871-72).\n\nBrumidi first visited the United States Capitol in the 1850s, after being introduced to Quartermaster General Montgomery C. Meigs, who was overseeing the completion of the Capitol dome and rotunda.\n\nBrumidi also executed frescoes at Taylor's Chapel, Baltimore, Maryland.\n\nHis first art work in the Capitol Building was in the meeting room of the House Committee on Agriculture. At first he received eight dollars a day, which Jefferson Davis, then Secretary of War of the United States, helped increase to ten dollars. His work attracting much favorable attention, he was given further commissions, and gradually settled into the position of a Government painter. His chief work in Washington was done in the rotunda of the Capitol and included the \"Apotheosis of George Washington\" in the dome and the \"Frieze of American History\", which contains allegorical scenes from American history. His work in the rotunda was left unfinished at his death, but he had decorated many other sections of the building, most notably hallways in the Senate side of the Capitol now known as the Brumidi Corridors.\n\nBrumidi's \"Liberty\" and \"Union\" paintings are mounted near the ceiling of the White House entrance hall.\n\nIn the Cathedral-Basilica of Sts. Peter and Paul in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, he pictured St. Peter and St. Paul. Brumidi was a capable, if conventional painter, and his black and white modeling in the work at Washington, in imitation of bas-relief, is strikingly effective. He decorated the entrance hall of Saleaudo, located at Frederick, Maryland, and listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1979.\n\nA Brumidi fresco appears behind the altar in St. Ignatius Church in Baltimore, Maryland. Another, of Saint Aloysius Gonzaga receiving communion from Saint Charles Borromeo, hangs over the high altar of St Aloysius Church in Washington, D.C.\n\nAnother Brumidi altarpiece was recently restored behind the marble high altar of the Shrine of the Holy Innocents (New York). in New York, New York. The fresco commissioned by the first pastor of Holy Innocents Fr. John Larkin, portrays the crucifixion.\n\nBrumidi died in Washington, D.C., and was interred at Glenwood Cemetery. When he was buried, his grave was unmarked. The location of Brumidi's grave was lost for 72 years. It was rediscovered, and on February 19, 1952, a marker was finally placed above it.\n\nForgotten for many years, Brumidi's role was rescued from obscurity by Myrtle Cheney Murdock.\n\nOn June 10, 2008, Congress passed, and on September 1, 2008, President George W. Bush signed, Public Law 110-59 (122 Stat. 2430), which posthumously awarded the Congressional Gold Medal to Constantino Brumidi, to be displayed in the Capitol Visitor Center, as part of an exhibit honoring him.\n\nhttps://shrineofholyinnocents.org/restoration\n\n"}
{"id": "1988138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988138", "title": "Bintang Temasek", "text": "Bintang Temasek\n\nBintang Temasek (Malay for \"The Star of Temasek\") is Singapore's most prestigious national honour and was instituted on 24 July 1970.\n\nThe badge of the Bintang Temasek may be awarded to any member of the Singapore Armed Forces, the Singapore Police Force or the Singapore Civil Defence Force who has performed acts of exceptional courage and skill or exhibited conspicuous devotion to duty in circumstances of extreme danger. The badge may be awarded posthumously. Recipients of the honour are entitled to use the post-nominal letters BT. The badge is to be worn on the left side of the outer garment suspended from a ribbon. No one has ever received the award since its establishment in 1970. There were suggestions by the public to confer the highest national honour to the first Prime Minister of Singapore, Lee Kuan Yew to mark the 50th anniversary of Singapore's independence but it was never conferred even after Lee's death. However, Lee had conferred the honour to the Prime Minister of Cambodia, Norodom Sihanouk during Lee's state visit to Phnom Penh in 1967.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1988139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988139", "title": "Juan de Flandes", "text": "Juan de Flandes\n\nJuan de Flandes (\"John of Flanders\"; c. 1460 – by 1519) was a Flemish painter active in Spain from 1496 to 1519. His actual name is unknown, although an inscription \"Juan Astrat\" on the back of one work suggests a name such as \"Jan van der Straat\". Jan Sallaert, who became a master in Ghent in 1480, has also been suggested. He worked in the Early Netherlandish style.\n\nHe was born around 1460 in Flanders (modern Belgium). He evidently trained in his home country, most likely in Ghent, as his work shows similarities to that of Joos van Wassenhove, Hugo van der Goes and other Ghent artists. He is only documented after he became an artist at the court of Queen Isabella I of Castile, where he is first mentioned in the accounts in 1496. He is described as \"court painter\" by 1498 and continued in the queen's service until her death in 1504. He mostly painted portraits of the royal family, but also the majority of a large series of small (21.3 x 16.7 cm) panels for a polyptych altarpiece for the queen. The panels have been dispersed and the largest number of panels is in the royal collection in Madrid.\n\nAfter Isabella's death in 1504 Juan de Flandes turned to ecclesiastical commissions from Spanish churches, beginning in Salamanca in 1505–1507. He was later based in Palencia, where there is a large reredos in the Cathedral. In Palencia his wife was described as a widow in December 1519. The overwhelming majority of his work held in collections outside Spain dates from this later period during which he concentrated on religious themes. Panels from a large altarpiece from a Palencian church are divided between the Prado and National Gallery of Art, Washington, who have four panels each.\n\nHis works show the Early Netherlandish style of Ghent adapted to the Spanish taste and landscape, notably the requirements for groups of compartmented scenes for altarpieces. His colouring is refined, \"with a preference for rather acid hues\", and \"while his feeling for space and light is sophisticated, a tendency to divide space into a succession of thin planes becomes a mannerism in his late works\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1988141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988141", "title": "Le Nouvelliste (Valais)", "text": "Le Nouvelliste (Valais)\n\nLe Nouvelliste is a Swiss French-language daily newspaper, published in Sion, Valais, by the publishing company Éditions Le Nouvelliste SA.\n\nA regional newspaper for the Valais canton, it was established in 1903 . At first, it was published three times a week. It then became a daily newspaper in 1929.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1988142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988142", "title": "Al Feldstein", "text": "Al Feldstein\n\nAlbert Bernard Feldstein (; October 24, 1925 – April 29, 2014) was an American writer, editor, and artist, best known for his work at EC Comics and, from 1956 to 1985, as the editor of the satirical magazine \"Mad\". After retiring from \"Mad\", Feldstein concentrated on American paintings of Western wildlife.\n\nAl Feldstein was born October 24, 1925, in Brooklyn, New York, to a Jewish household. He was the son of Max, who made dental molds, and Beatrice Feldstein. After winning an award in the 1939 New York World's Fair poster contest, he decided on a career in the art field and studied at the High School of Music and Art in Manhattan.\n\nWhile in high school, he was hired by Jerry Iger to work in the S. M. Iger Studio, a packager of comic-book stories supplying outsourced content to publishers entering the new medium. He recalled,\nHis earliest background art was for \"Sheena, Queen of the Jungle\".\n\nAfter graduating from high school he attended the Art Students League. Feldstein freelanced art for comic books, including Fox Comics. Feldstein recalled that Bob Farrell, whom he considered a \"wheeler-dealer\" driving a convertible Cadillac, introduced him to Victor Fox in return for a commission from all payments Fox made to him. Feldstein rewrote Farrell's scripts for Fox and produced the art for the stories. He described Fox as the \"typical exploiting comic book publisher of his day, grinding out shameless imitations of successful titles and trends\" and mistreating his writers and artists.\n\nFeldstein wrote, drew and packaged the complete \"Junior\" and \"Sunny\" books for Fox, and produced a comic book adaptation of \"Meet Corliss Archer\". Warned by his letterer Jim Wroten to be cautious about payments from Victor Fox, who'd \"gotten himself into financial trouble\", Feldstein approached Bill Gaines, who'd just taken over as EC Comics publisher following his father's death in a speedboat crash. Feldstein's initial EC assignment was drawing a teenage book, the beginning of a long working relationship with Gaines.\n\nArriving at EC in 1948, Feldstein began as an artist, but he soon combined art with writing, eventually editing most of the EC titles. Although he originally wrote and illustrated approximately one story per comic, in addition to doing many covers, Feldstein finally focused on editing and writing, reserving his artwork primarily for covers. From late 1950 through 1953, he edited and wrote stories for seven EC titles.\n\nAs EC's editor, Feldstein created a literate line, balancing his genre tales with potent graphic stories probing the underbelly of American life. In creating stories around such topics as racial prejudice, rape, domestic violence, police brutality, drug addiction and child abuse, he succeeded in addressing problems and issues which the 1950s radio, motion picture and television industries were too timid to dramatize.\n\nWhile developing a stable of contributing writers that included Robert Bernstein, Otto Binder, Daniel Keyes, Jack Oleck and Carl Wessler, he published the first work of Harlan Ellison. EC employed the comics industry's finest artists and published promotional copy to make readers aware of their staff. Feldstein encouraged the EC illustrators to maintain their personal art styles, and this emphasis on individuality gave the EC line a unique appearance. Distinctive front cover designs framing those recognizable art styles made Feldstein's titles easy to spot on crowded newsstands.\n\nThose comic books, known as EC's \"New Trend\" group, included \"Weird Science\", \"Weird Fantasy\", \"Tales from the Crypt\", \"The Haunt of Fear\", \"The Vault of Horror\", \"Shock SuspenStories\", \"Crime SuspenStories\", \"Panic\" and \"Piracy\". After the New Trend titles folded in 1955, Feldstein edited EC's short-lived New Direction line, followed by EC's Picto-Fiction magazines.\n\nAfter industry and government pressures forced Gaines to shut down most of his EC titles, Feldstein was briefly separated from the company. But when Harvey Kurtzman left \"Mad\" in 1956, Gaines turned to his former editor. Feldstein spent the next 29 years at the helm of what became one of the nation's leading and most influential magazines. It is unclear what the circulation of the magazine was when Feldstein took over but it is estimated to be between 325,000 and 750,000. By the 1960s, it had increased to over a million, and by the 1970s, it had doubled to two million. Circulation multiplied more than eight times during Feldstein's tenure, peaking at 2,850,000 for an issue in 1974 (and an average of 2.1 million for that year), although it declined to a third of that figure by the end of his time as editor.\n\nFeldstein has been credited with giving the magazine the personality of a \"smart-alecky, sniggering and indisputably clever spitball-shooter.\"\n\nMany new cartoonists and writers surfaced during the early years of Feldstein's editorship. This process leveled off in the 1960s as the magazine came to rely on a steady group of contributors. Feldstein's first issue as editor (#29) was also the first issue to display the twisted work of cartoonist Don Martin. The following issue, #30, marked the debuts of longtime cover artist Norman Mingo and artist Bob Clarke. Kelly Freas first appeared in issue #31. Issue #32 brought artists Mort Drucker, George Woodbridge and Joe Orlando, while issue #33 introduced readers to writers Frank Jacobs and Tom Koch. Al Jaffee, who had appeared in four of editor Kurtzman's last issues before leaving with him, returned just a year and a half later. Larry Siegel and Arnie Kogen began writing for the magazine in 1958-59. By the end of 1962, with the additions of Antonio Prohías, Paul Coker Jr., Jack Rickard, Don Edwing, Dick DeBartolo, Stan Hart, Dave Berg and Lou Silverstone, he had fully established both the format and the talent pool that kept the magazine a commercial success for decades.\n\nAfter he retired from \"Mad\" in 1984, Feldstein began painting again after his son, Mark Feldstein, gave him his first oil paint set since pre-\"Mad\". He left Connecticut and relocated in Jackson Hole, Wyoming, where he spent three years painting the Teton Range and its wildlife. Two of his paintings from that period placed in the Top 100 of Arts for the Parks, a competition created in 1986 by the National Park Academy of the Arts.\n\nFeldstein moved in 1992 to Paradise Valley, Montana, near Livingston, finding new approaches to depict the Western way of life in his acrylic paintings. In 1999, he was awarded an Honorary Doctorate of Arts degree by Rocky Mountain College in Billings, Montana, and that year again ranked in the Top 100 of the Arts for the Parks' Competition. He is represented by numerous Northwest galleries, and he continued to create his Western, wildlife and landscape paintings at his 270 acre (1.1 km²) ranch south of Livingston and north of Yellowstone National Park.\n\nIn 2000, he was invited to give the Commencement Address to the new century's first graduating class at Rocky Mountain College.\n\nHe was inducted into the Will Eisner Award Hall of Fame in 2003.\n\nIn 2011, he received the Bram Stoker Award for Lifetime Achievement from the Horror Writers Association.\n\nFeldstein died on April 29, 2014 at his home in Paradise Valley, Montana, near Livingston. No cause of death was released.\n\n"}
{"id": "1988147", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988147", "title": "Past Doctor Adventures", "text": "Past Doctor Adventures\n\nThe Past Doctor Adventures (sometimes known by the abbreviation PDA or PDAs) were a series of spin-off novels based on the long running BBC science fiction television series \"Doctor Who\" and published under the BBC Books imprint. For most of their existence, they were published side-by-side with the \"Eighth Doctor Adventures\". The novels regularly featured the First through Seventh Doctors. \"The Infinity Doctors\" had an ambiguous place in continuity and featured an unidentified incarnation of the Doctor. The Eighth Doctor co-starred with the Fourth Doctor in one novel (\"Wolfsbane\") and, after the Eighth Doctor Adventures had ceased publication, a novel (\"Fear Itself\") featuring the Eighth Doctor and set between two earlier Eighth Doctor Adventures (\"EarthWorld\" and \"Vanishing Point\") was published within the Past Doctor series.\n\nBetween 1991 and 1997, Virgin Publishing produced successful spin-off novels under the New Adventures and Missing Adventures ranges. However, following the \"Doctor Who\" television movie in 1996, the BBC did not renew Virgin Publishing's license to continue publishing \"Doctor Who\" material. Instead, they opted to publish their own range beginning in 1997 with \"The Devil Goblins from Neptune\" by Martin Day and Keith Topping. The range continued to be published through to 2005.\n\nVirgin had distinguished the New and Missing Adventures with different cover designs. BBC Books, however, did not differentiate their novels featuring the current and past Doctors in this way, although they were listed separately within the books. Fans, however, continued to distinguish the ongoing story of the Eighth Doctor from the more stand-alone adventures of past Doctors.\n\nDespite moving to the BBC, the writers (many of whom wrote for the Virgin series) have broadly attempted to maintain continuity with the New and Missing Adventures and many elements from these series have appeared in the Past Doctor Adventures (which replaced the Missing Adventures). Indeed, one of the novels — \"Millennium Shock\" by Justin Richards — was a direct sequel to \"System Shock\", a Missing Adventure published by Virgin. Another notable release was \"Scream of the Shalka\", a novelisation of the webcast of the same title and the only release in the Past Doctor range that did not feature an \"official\" incarnation of the Doctor. \"The Infinity Doctors\", written by Lance Parkin, featured an unidentified Doctor.\n\nIn addition to the Past Doctor Adventures and the Eighth Doctor Adventures, the BBC also published three short story collections under the title of Short Trips, which feature all eight (at the time of publication) Doctors. These were also inherited from Virgin, a version of their Decalog short story collections, and when the BBC ceased publishing them, a licence to continue was sought by Big Finish Productions, who continued to publish their own range of Short Trips collections until 2009.\n\nThe range has ceased publication. In the spring of 2005, BBC Books began publishing a series of hardcover books, the \"New Series Adventures\". The BBC Past Doctor paperback series continued for the remainder of 2005, but no titles were announced after Andrew Cartmel's \"Atom Bomb Blues\", which was released in November 2005. In a talk in July 2006, commissioning editor Justin Richards said that BBC Books have plans for the future of the Past Doctor Adventures, but that decisions had not yet been taken. (This is in the context of the BBC Books imprint being taken over by Random House and consequent managerial uncertainties.)\n\nBeginning in 2012, hardback books featuring past Doctors are being published, though at a much reduced rate compared with the pre-2005 output. The books are longer, in a larger format, and written by (or in once case, adapted from earlier work by) prominent science fiction authors. As of the mid-2014, the titles published are \"Shada\" by Gareth Roberts (a novelisation of the unbroadcast television story by Douglas Adams), \"The Wheel of Ice\" by Stephen Baxter, \"Harvest of Time\" by Alastair Reynolds and \"Engines of War\" by George Mann.\n\nIncluding books featuring two of the Doctors, the numbers of books each appears in are as follows: Fourth and Seventh Doctors, 13 books each; Second and Third Doctors, 12 books each; Sixth Doctor, 11 books; Fifth Doctor, 10 books; First Doctor, 8 books; and Eighth Doctor, 2 books.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1988155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988155", "title": "Ai-Kon", "text": "Ai-Kon\n\nAi-Kon is an annual three-day anime convention held on a weekend during the month of July in Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada. Ai-Kon was first held at the University of Manitoba in 2001 and is currently held at the RBC Convention Centre. The convention's name is a blend of the words \"ai\" (Japanese for \"love\") and \"convention\" and is derived from its slogan \"For the love of anime\". The word \"ai\" was also chosen to play on the fact that the club had a magazine they called Anime Injection.\n\nAi-Kon provides a wide variety of on mandate programming put on by committee staff, members of the community, guests and industry partners. Streaming/showing rooms run 24-hours during the conventions featuring titles in both Japanese and English languages. Alongside anime, the convention also hosts many video game and Japanese culture related activities.\n\nAdditional convention events include:\n\nAi-Kon was first held in July 2001 at the University of Manitoba in Winnipeg, Manitoba, and was run by the University of Manitoba Anime Club (UMAnime). The founding members were the club's executive staff, Kristjanna Thorarinson, Riki Lecotey, Kwan Fu Sit, Tong Lin, Cathleen Ma, Tim Groner, Geoff Wright, and Jeff Agapito. \nAt the time the club held one-day events but they had so many things planned that summer, the club decided on making it a two-day event but added a dance on Friday evenings, making it a 3-day convention. In 2002 the event went on hiatus for one year, due to changes within the club, and in July 2003 a second Ai-Kon was held at the university.\n\nToday, Ai-Kon is a non-profit organization that is run by a volunteer committee. It continues to be held annually in Winnipeg each summer.\n\nIn 2011, as a celebration of the 10 year anniversary, Ai-Kon held a one-day event in January called \"The Ai-Kon Winter Festival\". This one-day event is now held annually in February under the name \"Winterfest\".\n\nAiko is a fictional cheerful, stylish, energetic anime girl with pink hair and blue eyes. Her various incarnations coordinate with the convention's yearly theme. The mascot is selected annually from an open contest. Aiko's many manifestations are used on convention promotional materials, clothing, badges, and other wearables. Doug is Aiko's fictional younger brother and likewise the Winterfest mascot. He is portrayed a younger, mischievous and playful with white hair and blue eyes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1988157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988157", "title": "Savitzky–Golay filter", "text": "Savitzky–Golay filter\n\nA Savitzky–Golay filter is a digital filter that can be applied to a set of digital data points for the purpose of smoothing the data, that is, to increase the precision of the data without distorting the signal tendency. This is achieved, in a process known as convolution, by fitting successive sub-sets of adjacent data points with a low-degree polynomial by the method of linear least squares. When the data points are equally spaced, an analytical solution to the least-squares equations can be found, in the form of a single set of \"convolution coefficients\" that can be applied to all data sub-sets, to give estimates of the smoothed signal, (or derivatives of the smoothed signal) at the central point of each sub-set. The method, based on established mathematical procedures, was popularized by Abraham Savitzky and Marcel J. E. Golay who published tables of convolution coefficients for various polynomials and sub-set sizes in 1964. Some errors in the tables have been corrected. The method has been extended for the treatment of 2- and 3-dimensional data.\n\nSavitzky and Golay's paper is one of the most widely cited papers in the journal \"Analytical Chemistry\" and is classed by that journal as one of its \"10 seminal papers\" saying \"it can be argued that the dawn of the computer-controlled analytical instrument can be traced to this article\".\n\nThe data consists of a set of \"n\" {\"x\", \"y\"} points (\"j\" = 1, ..., \"n\"), where \"x\" is an independent variable and \"y\" is an observed value. They are treated with a set of \"m\" convolution coefficients, \"C\", according to the expression \nSelected convolution coefficients are shown in the tables, below. For example, for smoothing by a 5-point quadratic polynomial, \"m\" = 5, \"i\" = −2, −1, 0, 1, 2 and the \"j\"th smoothed data point, \"Y\", is given by\n\nwhere, \"C\" = −3/35, \"C\" = 12 / 35, etc. There are numerous applications of smoothing, which is performed primarily to make the data appear to be less noisy than it really is. The following are applications of numerical differentiation of data. Note When calculating the \"n\"th derivative, an additional scaling factor of formula_3 may be applied to all calculated data points to obtain absolute values (see expressions for formula_4, below, for details). \n\n\nA moving average filter is commonly used with time series data to smooth out short-term fluctuations and highlight longer-term trends or cycles. It is often used in technical analysis of financial data, like stock prices, returns or trading volumes. It is also used in economics to examine gross domestic product, employment or other macroeconomic time series.\n\nAn unweighted moving average filter is the simplest convolution filter. Each subset of the data set is fitted by a straight horizontal line. It was not included in the Savitzsky-Golay tables of convolution coefficients as all the coefficient values are simply equal to .\n\nWhen the data points are equally spaced, an analytical solution to the least-squares equations can be found. This solution forms the basis of the convolution method of numerical smoothing and differentiation. Suppose that the data consists of a set of \"n\" points (\"x\", \"y\") (\"j\" = 1, ..., \"n\"), where \"x\" is an independent variable and \"y\" is a datum value. A polynomial will be fitted by linear least squares to a set of \"m\" (an odd number) adjacent data points, each separated by an interval \"h\". Firstly, a change of variable is made\nThe formula_6-th row of formula_7 has values formula_8 .\n\nFor example, for a cubic polynomial fitted to 5 points, \"z\"= −2, −1, 0, 1, 2 the normal equations are solved as follows.\n\nNow, the normal equations can be factored into two separate sets of equations, by rearranging rows and columns, with\n\nExpressions for the inverse of each of these matrices can be obtained using Cramer's rule\nThe normal equations become\nand\nMultiplying out and removing common factors,\n\nThe coefficients of \"y\" in these expressions are known as convolution coefficients. They are elements of the matrix \nIn general,\nIn matrix notation this example is written as\n\nTables of convolution coefficients, calculated in the same way for \"m\" up to 25, were published for the Savitzky–Golay smoothing filter in 1964, The value of the central point, \"z\" = 0, is obtained from a single set of coefficients, \"a\" for smoothing, \"a\" for 1st. derivative etc. The numerical derivatives are obtained by differentiating Y. This means that the \"derivatives are calculated for the smoothed data curve\". For a cubic polynomial\n\nIn general, polynomials of degree (0 and 1), (2 and 3), (4 and 5) etc. give the same coefficients for smoothing and even derivatives. Polynomials of degree (1 and 2), (3 and 4) etc. give the same coefficients for odd derivatives.\n\nIt is not necessary always to use the Savitzky–Golay tables. The summations in the matrix JJ can be evaluated in closed form, \nso that algebraic formulae can be derived for the convolution coefficients. Functions that are suitable for use with a curve that has an inflection point are:\n\nSimpler expressions that can be used with curves that don't have an inflection point are: \n\nHigher derivatives can be obtained. For example, a fourth derivative can be obtained by performing two passes of a second derivative function.\n\nAn alternative to fitting \"m\" data points by a simple polynomial in the subsidiary variable, \"z\", is to use orthogonal polynomials. \nwhere \"P\", ..., \"P\" is a set of mutually orthogonal polynomials of degree 0, ..., \"k\". Full details on how to obtain expressions for the orthogonal polynomials and the relationship between the coefficients b and a are given by Guest. Expressions for the convolution coefficients are easily obtained because the normal equations matrix, JJ, is a diagonal matrix as the product of any two orthogonal polynomials is zero by virtue of their mutual orthogonality. Therefore, each non-zero element of its inverse is simply the reciprocal the corresponding element in the normal equation matrix. The calculation is further simplified by using recursion to build orthogonal Gram polynomials. The whole calculation can be coded in a few lines of PASCAL, a computer language well-adapted for calculations involving recursion.\n\nSavitzky–Golay filters are most commonly used to obtain the smoothed or derivative value at the central point, \"z\" = 0, using a single set of convolution coefficients. (\"m\" − 1)/2 points at the start and end of the series cannot be calculated using this process. Various strategies can be employed to avoid this inconvenience.\n\nIt is implicit in the above treatment that the data points are all given equal weight. Technically, the objective function \nbeing minimized in the least-squares process has unit weights, \"w\" = 1. When weights are not all the same the normal equations become\n\nIf the same set of diagonal weights is used for all data subsets, W = diag(\"w\",\"w\"...,\"w\"), an analytical solution to the normal equations can be written down. For example, with a quadratic polynomial,\n\nAn explicit expression for the inverse of this matrix can be obtained using Cramer's rule. A set of convolution coefficients may then be derived as \n\nAlternatively the coefficients, C, could be calculated in a spreadsheet, employing a built-in matrix inversion routine to obtain the inverse of the normal equations matrix. This set of coefficients, once calculated and stored, can be used with all calculations in which the same weighting scheme applies. A different set of coefficients is needed for each different weighting scheme.\n\nTwo-dimensional smoothing and differentiation can also be applied to tables of data values, such as intensity values in a photographic image which is composed of a rectangular grid of pixels. \nThe rectangular kernel of 35 data values, \nbecomes a vector when the rows are placed one after another.\nThe Jacobian has 10 columns, one for each of the parameters \"a\" − \"a\", and 35 rows, one for each pair of \"v\" and \"w\" values. Each row has the form\nThe convolution coefficients are calculated as\nThe first row of C contains 35 convolution coefficients, which can be multiplied with the 35 data values, respectively, to obtain the polynomial coefficient formula_37, which is the smoothed value at the central node of the kernel (i.e. at the 18th node of the above table). Similarly, other rows of C can be multiplied with the 35 values to obtain other polynomial coefficients, which, in turn, can be used to obtain smoothed values and different smoothed partial derivatives at different nodes.\n\nNikitas and Pappa-Louisi showed that, depending on the format of the used polynomial, the quality of smoothing may vary significantly. They recommend using the polynomial of the form\n\nbecause such polynomials can achieve good smoothing both in the central and in the near-boundary regions of a kernel, and therefore they can be confidently used in smoothing both at the internal and at the near-boundary data points of a sampled domain. In order to avoid ill-conditioning when solving the least-squares problem, \"p\" < \"m\" and \"q\" < \"n\". For a software which calculates the two-dimensional coefficients and for a database of such C's, see the section on multi-dimensional convolution coefficients, below.\n\nThe idea of two-dimensional convolution coefficients can be extended to the higher spatial dimensions as well, in a straightforward manner, by arranging multidimensional distribution of the kernel nodes in a single row. Following the aforementioned finding by Nikitas and Pappa-Louisi in two-dimensional cases, usage of the following form of the polynomial is recommended in multidimensional cases:\n\nwhere D is the dimension of the space, formula_40's are the polynomial coefficients, and u's are the coordinates in the different spatial directions. Algebraic expressions for partial derivatives of any order, be it mixed or otherwise, can be easily derived from the above expression. Note that C depends on the manner in which the kernel nodes are arranged in a row and on the manner in which the different terms of the expanded form of the above polynomial is arranged, when preparing the Jacobian.\n\nAccurate computation of C in multidimensional cases becomes challenging, as precision of standard floating point numbers available in computer programming languages no longer remain sufficient. The insufficient precision causes the floating point truncation errors to become comparable to the magnitudes of some C elements, which, in turn, severely degrades its accuracy and renders it useless. Chandra Shekhar has brought forth two open source softwares, and , which handle these accuracy issues adequately. ACCC performs the computation by using floating point numbers, in an iterative manner. The precision of the floating-point numbers is gradually increased in each iteration, by using GNU MPFR. Once the obtained C's in two consecutive iterations start having same significant digits until a pre-specified distance, the convergence is assumed to have reached. If the distance is sufficiently large, the computation yields a highly accurate C. PCCC employs rational number calculations, by using GNU Multiple Precision Arithmetic Library, and yields a fully accurate C, in the rational number format. In the end, these rational numbers are converted into floating point numbers, until a pre-specified number of significant digits.\n\nA database of C's that are calculated by using ACCC, for symmetric kernels and both symmetric and asymmetric polynomials, on unity-spaced kernel nodes, in the 1, 2, 3, and 4 dimensional spaces, is made available. Chandra Shekhar has also laid out a mathematical framework that describes usage of C calculated on unity-spaced kernel nodes to perform filtering and partial differentiations (of various orders) on non-uniformly spaced kernel nodes, allowing usage of C provided in the aforementioned database. Although this method yields approximate results only, they are acceptable in most engineering applications, provided that non-uniformity of the kernel nodes is weak.\n\n\nIt is inevitable that the signal will be distorted in the convolution process. From property 3 above, when data which has a peak is smoothed the peak height will be reduced and the half-width will be increased. Both the extent of the distortion and S/N (signal-to-noise ratio) improvement:\nFor example, If the noise in all data points is uncorrelated and has a constant standard deviation, \"σ\", the standard deviation on the noise will be decreased by convolution with an \"m\"-point smoothing function to\nThese functions are shown in the plot at the right. For example, with a 9-point linear function (moving average) two thirds of the noise is removed and with a 9-point quadratic/cubic smoothing function only about half the noise is removed. Most of the noise remaining is low-frequency noise(see \"Frequency characteristics of convolution filters\", below).\n\nAlthough the moving average function gives the best noise reduction it is unsuitable for smoothing data which has curvature over \"m\" points. A quadratic filter function is unsuitable for getting a derivative of a data curve with an inflection point because a quadratic polynomial does not have one. The optimal choice of polynomial order and number of convolution coefficients will be a compromise between noise reduction and distortion.\n\nOne way to mitigate distortion and improve noise removal is to use a filter of smaller width and perform more than one convolution with it. For two passes of the same filter this is equivalent to one pass of a filter obtained by convolution of the original filter with itself. For example, 2 passes of the filter with coefficients (1/3, 1/3, 1/3) is equivalent to 1 pass of the filter with coefficients\n(1/9, 2/9, 3/9, 2/9, 1/9).\n\nThe disadvantage of multipassing is that the equivalent filter width for \"n\" passes of an \"m\"-point function is \"n\"(\"m\" − 1) + 1 so multipassing is subject to greater end-effects. Nevertheless, multipassing has been used to great advantage. For instance, some 40–80 passes on data with a signal-to-noise ratio of only 5 gave useful results. The noise reduction formulae given above do not apply because correlation between calculated data points increases with each pass.\n\nConvolution maps to multiplication in the Fourier co-domain. The discrete Fourier transform of a convolution filter is a real-valued function which can be represented as\n\nθ runs from 0 to 180 degrees, after which the function merely repeats itself. The plot for a 9-point quadratic/cubic smoothing function is typical. At very low angle, the plot is almost flat, meaning that low-frequency components of the data will be virtually unchanged by the smoothing operation. As the angle increases the value decreases so that higher frequency components are more and more attenuated. This shows that the convolution filter can be described as a low-pass filter: the noise that is removed is primarily high-frequency noise and low-frequency noise passes through the filter. Some high-frequency noise components are attenuated more than others, as shown by undulations in the Fourier transform at large angles. This can give rise to small oscillations in the smoothed data.\n\nConvolution affects the correlation between errors in the data. The effect of convolution can be expressed as a linear transformation.\n\nBy the law of error propagation, the variance-covariance matrix of the data, A will be transformed into B according to\nTo see how this applies in practice, consider the effect of a 3-point moving average on the first three calculated points, , assuming that the data points have equal variance and that there is no correlation between them. A will be an identity matrix multiplied by a constant, \"σ\", the variance at each point.\n\nIn this case the correlation coefficients, \nbetween calculated points \"i\" and \"j\" will be\n\nIn general, the calculated values are correlated even when the observed values are not correlated. The correlation extends over calculated points at a time.\n\nTo illustrate the effect of multipassing on the noise and correlation of a set of data, consider the effects of a second pass of a 3-point moving average filter. For the second pass\n\nAfter two passes, the standard deviation of the central point has decreased to formula_50, compared to 0.58\"σ\" for one pass. The noise reduction is a little less than would be obtained with one pass of a 5-point moving average which, under the same conditions, would result in the smoothed points having the smaller standard deviation of 0.45\"σ\".\n\nCorrelation now extends over a span of 4 sequential points with correlation coefficients \n\nThe advantage obtained by performing two passes with the narrower smoothing function is that it introduces less distortion into the calculated data.\n\n\nConsider a set of data points . The Savitzky–Golay tables refer to the case that the step is constant, \"h\". Examples of the use of the so-called convolution coefficients, with a cubic polynomial and a window size, \"m\", of 5 points are as follows.\nSelected values of the convolution coefficients for polynomials of degree 1,2,3, 4 and 5 are given in the following tables. The values were calculated using the PASCAL code provided in Gorry.\n\n"}
{"id": "1988158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988158", "title": "Ralph Leighton", "text": "Ralph Leighton\n\nRalph Leighton (; born 1949) is an American biographer, film producer, and friend of the late physicist Richard Feynman. He recorded Feynman relating stories of his life. Leighton has released some of the recordings as \"The Feynman Tapes\". These interviews became the basis for the books \"Surely You're Joking, Mr. Feynman!\" and \"What Do You Care What Other People Think?\", which were later combined into the hardcover anniversary edition \"Classic Feynman: All the Adventures of a Curious Character\". Leighton is an amateur drummer and founder of the group Friends of Tuva. In 1990 he wrote \"Tuva or Bust! Richard Feynman's Last Journey.\"\n\nHe is credited as associate producer and originator of the concept for the Academy-Award–nominated documentary film \"Genghis Blues\" (2000), which came about through the nexus provided by Friends of Tuva.\n\nHe is the son of the late Caltech physicist Robert B. Leighton, who was also a close friend of Feynman. He is married to Phoebe Kwan; they have two children, Nicole and Ian.\n\n"}
{"id": "1988159", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988159", "title": "Darjah Utama Temasek", "text": "Darjah Utama Temasek\n\nThe Darjah Utama Temasek (\"Order of Temasek\") is Singapore's second most important national honour and was instituted in 1962. Its Grand Master is the President of Singapore.\n\nThe Order was first instituted in 1962. It was then the most important national honour. The Order would have only twelve members, with Yang di-Pertuan Negara conferring the membership on advice from the Prime Minister. A chancellor would be appointed by the Yang di-Pertuan Negara from among the members of the order, who would hold the seal of the order. Any warrants issued by order would be countersigned by both chancellor and the Yang di-Pertuan Negara.\n\nThe Order became the second most important national honour in 1970, when The Temasek Star (\"Bintang Temasek\") was created and ranked over all other orders and medals.\n\nThe rules governing the order was since revised several times. Gazette notices establishing the Rules that instituted the Order were published in 1975, 1996 and 2019. The 1996 Rules would revoked the 1975 Rules. With the 1996 Rules, there would be 3 grades of the Order, First Class, Second Class and Third Class. Only Singapore citizens could be admitted to the Order, with non-Singapore citizens being admitted in an honorary capacity. The First Class grade would have a limited capacity of twelve members, whilst the other grades have no such restriction. The Seal of the Order would bear the design of the Badge.\n\nMembers would be distinguished by the positions of the Badge and Star of the Order on their attire. Members of First Class grade would have their Badge worn the right hip from a sash passing over the left shoulder and under the right arm, and their Star worn on the left side of their outer garment. Members of Second Class grade would have their Badge worn suspended round the neck from a ribbon, and their Star is to be worn on the left side of their outer garment. Members of Third Class grade would only have the Badge of the Order, and it is to be worn suspended round the neck from a ribbon. Recipients of the Order are entitled to place the post-nominals DUT(x) after their names, with (x) being the grade of the Order awarded.\n\nOrdinarily, only Singapore citizens could be admitted to the Order, but in special circumstances non-Singapore citizens may also be admitted in an honorary capacity. \n\nIn 2019, the 1996 Rules was amended to update the nomenclature of the grades of the Order. The grades would be now known as:\n\n\nThe updated nomenclature would also be retrospectively applied on members conferred under the previous nomenclature.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1988172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988172", "title": "Holborn Head", "text": "Holborn Head\n\nHolborn Head is a headland on the north-facing Atlantic coast of Caithness, in the Highland area of Scotland. The \"point\" of Holborn Head is at (grid reference ). The name \"Holborn\" appears Norse in origin, meaning \"hillfort\", and the headland may be the \"Tarvedunum promotorium\" noted by Ptolemy. At the tip lies the remains of a promontory fort.\nA walk around the headland can be accessed through a gate next to the Principal Keeper's House. There are stiles and bridges, which allow access to the unfenced off promontory of Holborn Head itself. There are clear views over to Dunnet Head and to the Orkney Islands.\n\nHolburn Head Lighthouse, spelt 'Holburn', unlike the headland which is Holborn Head, is about one kilometre (half a mile) south of the point, near Scrabster Harbour on the western shore of Thurso Bay, at . Designed and built by David and Thomas Stevenson, it was completed in 1862. The tower for the light is integral with the keepers' house which is unusual since most Scottish lighthouses are separate from the house. After entering the upper floor front doorway there is a vestibule with 2 entrances, one to the Lightkeepers House and the other to the Lighthouse Tower. There were 2 Lightkeepers houses and the Tower within the building. Separate to this was the Principal Keeper's House.\n\nThe light was discontinued in 2003.\n\n"}
{"id": "1988173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988173", "title": "Change management auditing", "text": "Change management auditing\n\nProper change control auditing can lower the following risks:\n\nThe following features are commonly part of a change management auditing procedure:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1988179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988179", "title": "Félix Millán", "text": "Félix Millán\n\nFélix Bernardo Millán Martínez (born August 21, 1943) is a Puerto Rican former professional baseball second baseman, who played in Major League Baseball (MLB) for the Atlanta Braves and New York Mets.\n\nMillán, nicknamed \"The Kitten\" (\"El Gatito\" in Spanish), born in Yabucoa, Puerto Rico, made his major league debut on June 2, 1966 with the Atlanta Braves, and played for Atlanta until 1973. Millan was primarily a second baseman. He played in two All-Star Games, the first in 1969 and the second in 1971; in 1970 he was named an All-Star, but was unable to participate due to injuries. In 1973, he was traded to the New York Mets, for which he played until 1977. In 1975 he became the first Met to appear in all 162 games during the season. He played for 12 years. His first game was June 2 1966 for the Atlanta Braves and his final game was August 12, 1977 for the New York Mets. Due to incurring a shoulder injury because of an incident in that August 1977 game, one against the Pittsburgh Pirates, Felix was forced to retire. The incident, an altercation with Pirate catcher Ed Ott, began with the latter sliding hard into second base attempting to break up a double play. Millán consequently shouted at Ott and hit him with a baseball in his hand. Ott, a former wrestler, answered this by picking Millan up and slamming him into his extended knee at Three Rivers Stadium, severely injuring his shoulder, and unfortunately ending Felix's MLB career.\n\nOn July 21, 1975, Joe Torre set a record for most double-plays grounded into in a single game (4), with Millán on first ahead of Torre. Millán had singled in all four of his at-bats. Torre said, \"I'd like to thank Félix Millán for making all of this possible.\"\n\nMillán was a prototypical \"slap\" or \"contact\" hitter and his 1976 Topps baseball card, #245, shows his unusual batting stance, as he choked up almost halfway on the bat.\n\nMillán also played for three seasons in the Japanese Central League after leaving the majors. He joined the Yokohama Taiyo Whales in 1978, after the Whales bought his contract from the Mets, and played alongside Skip James. He won the batting title in his second year in Japan (1979) with a .346 batting average, and was given the Best Nine Award. He won the title with only 126 hits, barely having enough at-bats to qualify for the title. He did not play well the next year, and was released by the Whales after the 1980 season. In his three years in Japan, he had only 52 strikeouts in 1139 at-bats.\n\nMajor Leagues\n\nJapanese Central League\n\n"}
{"id": "1988180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988180", "title": "Abraham Savitzky", "text": "Abraham Savitzky\n\nAbraham Savitzky (May 29, 1919 in New York City – February 5, 1999 in Naples, Florida) was an American analytical chemist.\n\nSavitzky received his bachelor's degree from the New York State College for Teachers (now University at Albany, SUNY) in 1941. After serving in the U.S. Air Force during World War II, he obtained a master's degree in 1947 and a Ph.D. in 1949 in physical chemistry from Columbia University. While at Columbia, he co-invented the Savitzky-Halford ratio recording spectrophotometer, which was manufactured by Perkin-Elmer as the Model 13. In 1950, after working at Columbia for a year as a research associate in electron microscopy, he began a long career with the Perkin-Elmer Corporation, where he was hired by Vincent J. Coates. Savitzky started with Perkin-Elmer as a staff scientist who was chiefly concerned with the design and development of infrared instruments. He rapidly moved up the ranks in the corporation. By 1956 he was named Perkin-Elmer’s new product coordinator for the Instrument Division, and as the years passed, he continued to gain more and more recognition for his work in the company. Most of his work with Perkin-Elmer focused on computer-aided analytical chemistry, data reduction, infrared spectroscopy, time-sharing systems, and computer plotting. He retired from Perkin-Elmer in 1985, where he had worked for 35 years, the last 10 as a principal scientist. After his retirement Savitzky became the president of Silvermine Resources, which was concerned mostly with microprocessor-based computing systems for analytical instrumentation and bibliographic information retrieval, where he remained for several years.\n\nAbraham Savitzky specialized in the computerization of analytical instrumentation, more specifically in the digital processing of infrared spectra and was awarded seven patents in that field. During his long career he presented numerous papers and wrote several manuscripts. Among them and while employed by Perkin-Elmer, Savitzky presented a paper describing the Savitzky-Golay Smoothing Filter for digital filtering. This paper, which is the collaborative effort of Savitzky and Marcel J. E. Golay, is one of the most famous, respected, and heavily cited articles in its field.\n\nIn recognition of his many significant accomplishments in the field of analytical chemistry and computer science, he received the Honorary Membership Award of the Society for Applied Spectroscopy in 1996, the Williams-Wright Award from the Coblentz Society in 1986. Savitzky was also a member of the American Chemical Society, the American Physics Society, the Optical Society of America, and many other professional organizations. He died in 1999. The Savitzky Family Science and Technology Book Fund was created at the Wilton (Connecticut) Public Library, honoring Abe and Evelyn.\n\n"}
{"id": "1988182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988182", "title": "Marcel J. E. Golay", "text": "Marcel J. E. Golay\n\nMarcel Jules Edouard Golay (; May 3, 1902 – April 27, 1989) was a Swiss-born mathematician, physicist, and information theorist, who applied mathematics to real-world military and industrial problems. He was born in Neuchâtel, Switzerland.\n\nGolay studied electrical engineering at the Eidgenossiche Technische Hochschule (Swiss Federal Institute of Technology) in Zürich. He joined Bell laboratories in New York City in 1924, spending four years there. He received a Ph.D. in physics from the University of Chicago in 1931.\n\nGolay then joined the US Army Signal Corps, eventually rising to the post of Chief Scientist. He was based mostly in Fort Monmouth, New Jersey. He developed an IR \"radar\" based on its Golay Detector, the SCR-268T specifically designed to the detection of vessels (S/S Normandie was detected at its inaugural crossing). The SCR-268 (using Barkausen vacuum tubes) and the SCR-268T were to work together. However the 268T, only used in the Pacific theater was abandoned before the end of the war.\n\nBetween 1955 and 1963, Golay was a consultant for Philco Corporation of Philadelphia, PA, and the Perkin-Elmer Corporation of Norwalk, Connecticut. In 1963, Golay joined the Perkin-Elmer company full-time as Senior Research Scientist. Golay worked on many problems, including gas chromatography and optical spectroscopy. It was during this period when he patented an Analysis of Images, for two-dimensional parallel data processing, and worked to develop the idea, called Golay Logic for Optical Pattern Recognition along with Kendall Preston, Philip Norgren, David Dacava and Joseph Carvalko, Jr.. He remained with Perkin-Elmer for the rest of his life.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1988189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988189", "title": "Chaohu", "text": "Chaohu\n\nChaohu () is a county-level city of Anhui Province, People's Republic of China, it is under the administration of the prefecture-level city of Hefei. Situated on the northeast and southeast shores of Lake Chao, from which the city was named, Chaohu is under the administration of Hefei, the provincial capital, and is the latter's easternmost county-level division.\n\nOn August 22, 2011, the Anhui provincial government announced in a controversial decision that the prefecture-level city Chaohu was to be split into three parts and absorbed into neighboring cities. Juchao District was renamed to Chaohu as a county-level city under Hefei's administration.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1988190", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988190", "title": "José Pagán", "text": "José Pagán\n\nJosé Pagán (May 5, 1935 – June 7, 2011) was a Puerto Rican professional baseball player and coach. He played in Major League Baseball (MLB) as an infielder and outfielder for fifteen seasons, with three National League (NL) teams from to . Pagán was notable for driving in the winning run for the Pittsburgh Pirates in the seventh game of the 1971 World Series.\n\nPagán (birth name: José Antonio Pagán Rodríguez ) was born in the town of Barceloneta, Puerto Rico. He made his major league debut at the age of 24 with the San Francisco Giants on August 8, . Pagán's best full season statistically came with the Giants in 1962, when he hit .259 and drove in a career high 57 runs. He had 73 runs scored that year, which also was a career high, while collecting 150 hits for the only time in his career as the Giants won the National League Pennant. Pagán hit .368 with a home run in the 1962 World Series as the Giants lost to the New York Yankees in seven-games.\n\nOn May 22, 1965 the San Francisco Giants traded Pagán to the Pittsburgh Pirates for Dick Schofield. As a member of the Pirates he won three consecutive National League Eastern Division titles between and . Despite playing part-time for the Pirates from 1966–1970, Pagán batted in the .260s twice and the .280s twice out of those five years, only hitting under .264 in 1968 when he only had 163 at bats. During that time instead of playing short-stop, he played mostly third base and left field, but also was used as a key \"spare part\" for the team, playing games at every position in the infield, even one at catcher in 1967 for one inning.\n\nWith the Pirates in 1971, after losing the NLCS in 1970, he won his only world series and became a hero of the deciding game. In game seven of the World Series between the Pirates and the Baltimore Orioles, Pagán hit a double in the top of the eighth inning which scored Willie Stargell which proved to be the game's (and series') winning run.\n\nHe was released by the Pittsburgh Pirates on October 24, 1972 and, signed as a free agent with the Philadelphia Phillies on November 13, 1972. He played his final major league game on August 15, 1973 at the age of 38 with the Phillies.\n\nAfter his playing career ended, Pagán was a Pittsburgh Pirates coach for five seasons (1974–1978). He managed the Triple-A Ogden A's in the Pacific Coast League for two seasons (1979–1980) and teams in the Puerto Rican Winter League for several seasons, and lived in Puerto Rico before moving his family to Florida in 1999.\n\nPagán died at age 76 in 2011 at his home in Sebring, Florida, a victim of Alzheimer's disease, and was survived by his wife and two sons. He was held in such esteem by the Pittsburgh organization that a moment of silence was observed before the Pirates game with the Arizona Diamondbacks at PNC Park that night. He was buried at Lakeview Memorial Gardens in Avon Park.\n\n"}
{"id": "1988205", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988205", "title": "Athabasca County", "text": "Athabasca County\n\nAthabasca County is a municipal district in north central Alberta, Canada. It is located northeast of Edmonton and is in Census Division No. 13. Prior to an official renaming on December 1, 2009, Athabasca County was officially known as the County of Athabasca No. 12.\n\nThe following urban municipalities are surrounded by Athabasca County:\n\n\nThe following hamlets are located within Athabasca County:\nThe following localities are located within Athabasca County:\n\nIn the 2016 Census of Population conducted by Statistics Canada, Athabasca County recorded a population of 7,869 living in 3,067 of its 4,093 total private dwellings, a change from its 2011 population of 7,662. With a land area of , it had a population density of in 2016.\n\nIn the 2011 Census, Athabasca County had a population of 7,662 living in 2,965 of its 3,835 total dwellings, a 1.2% change from its 2006 adjusted population of 7,572. With a land area of , it had a population density of in 2011.\n"}
{"id": "1988206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988206", "title": "Sengann mac Dela", "text": "Sengann mac Dela\n\nSengann (modern spelling: Seangann), son of Dela, of the Fir Bolg, was a legendary High King of Ireland, succeeding his brothers Gann and Genann. His wife was Anust.\n\nWhen the Fir Bolg invaded Ireland the five sons of Dela divided the island amongst themselves. Sengann landed with Gann at Inber Dubglaise and the pair divided Munster between them, Sengann taking the south and Gann the north of the province.\n\nAfter death of Gann and Genann of plague, Sengann ruled Ireland for five years, before he was killed by Fiacha Cennfinnán, his brother Rudraige's grandson.\n\n"}
{"id": "1988208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988208", "title": "Faction (Planescape)", "text": "Faction (Planescape)\n\nThe Factions are fictional philosophically based power groups in the Planescape campaign setting for the \"Dungeons & Dragons\" fantasy role-playing game.\n\nWhile the Lady of Pain is considered the ultimate ruler of the planar metropolis called Sigil, \"the City of Doors\", the Factions perform virtually all the actual administrative and practical functions of the city. They are the ones the people look to for authority; the Lady only gives edicts or appears personally under rare circumstances. Each of the Factions is based around one particular belief system; many of the Factions' beliefs make them enemies where their other goals and actions might have made them allies. All Factions hold many secrets from non-members and even their own members, for the fewer who know a secret, the more secret it is (and these are secrets of power, either wielded or potentially gained by the Faction's adversaries).\n\nThere are fifteen Factions in total, per decree of the Lady of Pain; any additional factions emerging would be subject to her wrath (unless they destroy one of the current 15). At one point there were many more Factions, but after a war referred to as the Great Upheaval amongst the factions, the Lady of Pain decreed that they had two weeks to get the number down to 15 or she would kill them all. The Free League membership swelled to over a million, compared to the 20,000 or so members present day.\n\nFactions are led by a Factol. Other high-ranking faction members are called Factors, and mid-level faction members are called Factotums. The lowest-ranking members are called Namers because many of them have only a tenuous faith in their faction's philosophy and are thus members in name only.\n\nAlso known as \"the Defiers\" or \"the Lost\", they deny not only the gods' right to pass judgment over mortals, but their very divinity. They claim that the gods (whom they call \"powers\") are powerful but have limits and do not deserve worship. Instead, Athar priests channel divine power from what they call the \"Great Unknown\", or what they believe to be the true divine force behind everything. Their headquarters in Sigil is the Shattered Temple, the former temple of the dead god Aoskar. Following the faction war, and banned from Sigil, they moved their headquarters to the base of the infinite spire where divine magic does not function in protection of the many gods they have offended. The Athar are broadly derived from real-world atheists, agnostics, and Deists.\n\nKnown as \"Godsmen\" they believe that each life is a test, and that every person has the potential to become a god. Their headquarters is the Great Foundry, symbolizing their belief that the multiverse constantly forges and refines all beings. Shares many parallels with Hindu, Buddhism, and most sects of Mormonism. However, the ultimate goal is not Nirvana but apotheosis.\n\n\"Bleakers\" or \"Madmen\" deny that any belief system has any merit; as they see it, the universe has physical rules, but no metaphysical or philosophical ones, therefore any meaning in life must come from within. Their headquarters is the insane asylum of Sigil, called the Gatehouse. They are derived from real-life existentialists and the philosophy of Friedrich Nietzsche.\n\nThe \"Sinkers\" believe in the sanctity and inevitability of entropy, particularly the inevitable destruction of all things. The core of their belief is that everything ends. Their headquarters is Sigil's Armory, where they forge weapons as tools of destruction.\n\nAlso known as \"the Dead\", they believe that both life and death are false states of existence, that there is a state of True Death which can only be accomplished by denying one's emotions and physical wants and needs (a conception similar to eternal oblivion, but also conceivably to Nirvana). Their headquarters is the Mortuary, where Sigil's dead are interred or cremated. Their philosophy is closely related to that of Arthur Schopenhauer, along with some shared similarities with Buddhism, Stoicism and acosmism.\n\n\"Takers\" or \"The Heartless\" believe that those with power and ability have the right to own what they control and to take what they can from those who are unable to keep it, and that it is their right to exploit any situation to their advantage, regardless of how it affects anyone else (a position akin to \"might makes right\"). Their headquarters is the Hall of Records, where they serve as the tax collectors of Sigil. They are derived from real-life Social Darwinists and the philosophies of Max Stirner and Ayn Rand.\n\nThese \"Guvners\" believe that knowledge is power; they learn and exploit both the natural laws of the universe and the laws of society. Their headquarters is the City Court, where they serve as judges and legal advocates. They recall the Sophists of Classical Athens.\n\nAs \"Indeps\", they reject the other factions and their bureaucratic, hierarchical dogmatism and do not consider themselves a faction at all. For this reason, they don't have a factol or an official headquarters, though Sigil's Great Bazaar serves as an unofficial one. They believe in individual freedom as the highest good and are analogous to libertarians.\n\n\"Hardheads\" believe that peace and stability can only be established under one rule — theirs. The planar faction known as the Harmonium is actually just a small part of a much larger political entity which rules over the entirety of the Prime Material world of Ortho. In Sigil, they serve as the city's police force, and their headquarters is the City Barracks. They are related to present day authoritarianism, particularly religious evangelicalism and fundamentalism. They take offense to the term \"Hardhead\".\n\n\"The Red Death\" believe in justice and retribution at the expense of all else. Their name does not come from \"killing out of mercy,\" but rather \"killing mercy.\" Their credo that mercy is for the weak, and the merciful should be punished. Their headquarters is Sigil's Prison, where they carry out the sentences of convicted criminals.\n\n\"Anarchists\" who believe that social order and man-made laws are inherently corrupt and must be destroyed—though none of their members can agree on what, if anything, should replace them. Like the Indeps, they have no headquarters and gather in many safe houses and secret meeting places.\n\n\"Signers\" believe that everyone is the center of their own reality and that reality can be reshaped by the power of imagination. Their headquarters is the Hall of Speakers, which houses Sigil's legislature. Some of them are solipsists, though most are not so extreme.\n\nSensates believe that accumulating experiential knowledge through the senses is the only way to achieve enlightenment. Their headquarters is the Civic Festhall, which features an endless series of entertainments and a library of magically stored experiences. They are reminiscent of ancient Epicurianism (if not hedonism more generally), as well as the more modern empiricism.\n\nThe Cipher believe that by tapping into the 'cadence' of the planes and acting through pure instinct they can achieve a higher state of being. Their headquarters is the Great Gymnasium, where members can train to improve their bodies and minds. Their philosophy could be considered similar to Taoism and Zen Buddhism.\n\n\"Chaosmen\" who believe that the only truth is revealed in chaos. The Xaositects have been quite accurately described as being \"totally off their rockers, every one of 'em.\" Their headquarters is the Hive, the most disorganized part of the Sigil ward of the same name. Compare with real life discordianism.\n\nIn The Faction War many Factions were destroyed or merged.\n\n\nScott Haring, in his review of the \"Planescape Campaign Setting\" for \"Pyramid\", notes that designer Zeb Cook's three-word summary of the Planescape experience is, \"Philosophers With Clubs.\" Haring commented, \"And what a batch of philosophers!\", noting that \"Sigil is rife with philosophical factions, all with their own take on how the universe works and what it's all about. [...] Each faction is continuously struggling to gain converts from other factions and to hang on to what they've got. Because the more people who believe the basic laws of the universe work a certain way, the more the universe tends to work in just that way. Alignment and philosophy are more than roleplaying tools -- they're the main point.\" \n\nHaring described the Fraternity of Order \"that believes that there is a law governing absolutely everything in the universe, and that all you have to do is learn them and you'll rule everything\"; the Society of Sensation \"that believes that the only way to comprehend the meaning of the universe is to personally experience every facet of it\"; the Dustmen \"who believe that everybody on all the planes is already dead, and that everybody came here to this depressing afterlife from somewhere else\"; and the Doomguard \"that believes that entropy is the ultimate destination of the universe and that they should do whatever they can to help it along\". Haring notes that \"there's more, all colorful and unique\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1988210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988210", "title": "Scrub oak", "text": "Scrub oak\n\nScrub oak is a common name for several species of small, shrubby oaks. It may refer to: \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1988214", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988214", "title": "The Epoch Times", "text": "The Epoch Times\n\nThe Epoch Times is a U.S. based international multi-language newspaper and media extension of the Falun Gong new religious movement. The newspaper is part of the Epoch Media Group, which also operates New Tang Dynasty Television (NTD). For its articles, the publication draws from a network within China, as well as staff living in the West. \"The Epoch Times\" has been publishing in Chinese since May 2000. It is either sold or distributed free-of-charge in 35 countries, including various international regional editions. \"The Epoch Times\" websites are blocked in mainland China.\n\nThe media outlet is primarily known for promoting far-right politicians across Europe and the United States, and in particular for its promotion of U.S. President Donald Trump; a 2019 report showed it to be the second-largest funder of pro-Trump Facebook advertising after the Trump campaign. The group's news sites and YouTube channels have spread conspiracy theories such as QAnon and anti-vaccination propaganda. The organization frequently promotes other Falun Gong extensions, such as the performing arts wing of the new religious movement, Shen Yun.\n\n\"The Epoch Times\" was founded in 2000 by John Tang and other Chinese Americans associated with the Falun Gong new religious movement. The founders said they were responding to censorship inside China and a lack of international understanding about the Chinese government's repression of Falun Gong. In May 2000, the paper was first published in the Chinese language in New York, with the web launch in August 2000.\n\nBy 2003, \"The Epoch Times\" website and group of newspapers had grown into one of the largest Chinese-language news sites and newspaper groups outside China, with local editions in the U.S., Canada, Australia, New Zealand, Japan, Indonesia, Taiwan, Hong Kong, and major Western European countries. The first English edition launched online in 2003, followed by the New York print edition in 2004.\n\nAccording to NBC News, \"little is publicly known about the precise ownership, origins or influences of \"The Epoch Times\",\" and it is loosely organized into several regional tax free non-profits, under the umbrella of the Epoch Media Group, together with New Tang Dynasty Television. Its revenue in 2017 was US$8.1 million, and reported a spending of US$7.2 million. Tax documents of the Epoch Media Group indicated that between 2012 and 2016, the group received $900,000 from a principal at Renaissance Technologies, a hedge fund led by the conservative political donor Robert Mercer.\n\nAs of February 2012, 67 \"The Epoch Times\" newspaper editions are published, in print in 11 languages, online in 21 languages.\n\nIn April 2019, videos and ads from the Epoch Media Group including \"The Epoch Times\" and New Tang Dynasty (NTD) totaled 3 billion views on Facebook, YouTube and Twitter, according to the analytics company Tubular. That ranked it 11th among all video creators, and ahead of any other traditional news publisher, according to NBC News.\n\nWriting in 2015, Associated Press reporter Nahal Toosi wrote that it is \"technically inaccurate\" to say that the Falun Gong organization owns \"The Epoch Times,\" but many of the newspaper's staffers are Falun Gong practitioners. Toosi noted \"many observers\" have said Falun Gong uses the newspaper for its public relations campaigns, and the paper is connected with the group and carries sympathetic coverage of it.\n\nThe English \"Epoch Times\" chair Stephen Gregory said in 2007: \"It's not a Falun Gong newspaper. Falun Gong is a question of an individual's belief. The paper's not owned by Falun Gong, it doesn't speak for Falun Gong, it doesn't represent Falun Gong. It does cover the persecution of Falun Gong in China.\" In 2003 sociologist Yuezhi Zhao wrote that the paper \"displays an indisputable ideological and organizational affinity with Falun Gong\" and that it strongly emphasizes negative portrayals of the Chinese government and positive portrayals of Falun Gong. Per Zhao, \"Epoch\" portrays itself as neutral, independent, and public-interest oriented.\n\nCanadian scholar Clement Tong wrote \"The Epoch Times\" \"operates as a mouthpiece for\" Falun Gong without an official statement of affiliation with the movement. In 2008, David Ownby, director of the Center for East Asian Studies at the Université de Montréal and the author of \"Falun Gong and the Future of China\", said the newspaper is set up by Falun Gong practitioners with their own money. He describes \"The Epoch Times\" as wishing to be taken seriously as a global newspaper rather than being judged on the basis of its strong association with Falun Gong. He wrote: \"\"Epoch Times\" is a newspaper with a mission, that of reporting on issues bearing on human rights throughout the world, which allows for considerable focus on China and Falun Gong.\" The paper's reporting on Chinese affairs often highlights negative news about the Chinese government, and covers Falun Gong in a sympathetic light. The paper is seen to articulate Falun Gong's views on a range of issues, and may be part of a \"de facto\" media alliance with democracy activists in exile.\n\nIn 2009, Li Hongzhi, the founder of Falun Gong, appeared at the newspaper's headquarters in Manhattan and called for the expansion of \"The Epoch Times\" to \"become regular media\". Former employees also noted the involvement of Falun Gong practitioners in the management and editorial process. Three anonymous former employees said \"Epoch Times\" workers were encouraged to attend weekly \"Fa study\" sessions outside work hours to study the teachings of Li Hongzhi.\n\n\"The Epoch Times\" runs frequent promotional stories about the Shen Yun dance troupe that is affiliated with Falun Gong. \"The New Yorker\"'s review of Shen Yun called \"The Epoch Times\" \"the world’s foremost purveyor of Shen Yun content\".\n\nIn 2019, an NBC News investigative report suggested \"The Epoch Times's\" political coverage may be affected by Falun Gong believers' anticipation of a judgment day in which communists are sent to hell, and Falun Gong's allies are spared. Former \"Epoch Times\"' employees told NBC News that President Donald Trump is viewed as a key anti-communist ally, allegedly \"hastening judgement day and the delivery of communists to hell.\"\n\nThe paper carried an exclusive interview with outspoken Canadian Member of Parliament Rob Anders, wherein Anders alleged that the Chinese government used gifts and business deals in attempts to influence Canadian political decisions.\n\n\"The Epoch Times\" is identified as spreading misinformation related to the COVID-19 pandemic in print and via social media including Facebook and YouTube. It has promoted anti-China rhetoric and conspiracy theories around the coronavirus outbreak, for example through an 8-page special edition called \"How the Chinese Communist Party Endangered the World\", which was distributed unsolicited in April 2020 to mail customers in areas of USA, Canada, and Australia. In the newspaper, the SARS-CoV-2 virus is known as the \"CCP virus\". The issue also featured an improvised, home-made emergency room, while at the same time accusing the World Health Organization for its purported complicity with China, falsely claiming that nations collaborating with the communist country have endured a worse outcome during the pandemic. The minisformation tracker NewsGuard characterized \"The Epoch Times\" as a \"super-spreader\" of misinformation for European and American audiences.\n\nA story in \"The Epoch Times\" on February 17, 2020, shared a map from the internet that falsely alleged massive sulfur dioxide releases from crematoriums during the COVID-19 pandemic in China, speculating that 14,000 bodies may have been burned. A fact check by AFP reported that the map was a NASA forecast taken out of context.\n\n\"The Epoch Times\" is a strong advocate for bio-engineered virus conspiracy theory. A widely viewed video released by the organization on April 7, 2020, was flagged by Facebook as “partly false\" for “the unsupported hypothesis that SARS-CoV-2 is a bioengineered virus released from a Wuhan research laboratory.” The video featured Judy Mikovits, an anti-vaccination activist. The fact-checker Health Feedback said of the video that \"several of its core scientific claims are false and its facts, even when accurate, are often presented in a misleading way.\"\n\nThe editorial stance of \"The Epoch Times\" is generally considered anti-communist, specifically opposing the Communist Party of China.\n\nIn recent years, the newspaper has also been noted for favorable coverage of the Trump administration, the German far-right, and the French far-right.\n\nAccording to a report by NBC News, \"The Epoch Times\" \"generally stayed out of U.S. politics\" before 2016, \"unless they dovetailed with Chinese interests\". Ben Hurley, a former \"Epoch Times\" employee until 2013, told NBC News that the newspaper was critical toward abortion and LGBT, and that Falun Gong practitioners \"saw communism everywhere\" including in internationalist figures like Hillary Clinton and Kofi Annan, \"but there was more room for disagreements in the early days.\" Since 2016, according to NBC News, \"The Epoch Times\" has promoted favorable coverage of Donald Trump's campaign and presidency, and emphasized issues such as Islamic terrorism and illegal immigration to the United States. It has also emphasized \"what the publication claims is a labyrinthian, global conspiracy led by [Hillary] Clinton and former President Barack Obama to tear down Trump\".\n\nThe newspaper counters what it considers to be Chinese Communist Party propaganda through its own opinion pieces and reporting. It covers causes and groups opposed to the CCP, including Falun Gong, dissidents, activists, and supporters of the Tibetan government-in-exile. The paper also reports on Falun Gong-related news, including the group's attempt to sue former Communist Party general secretary Jiang Zemin under civil legislation for \"genocide\", not covered by most other overseas Chinese-language newspapers.\n\nThe newspaper is also at odds with the Taiwanese-owned newspaper \"World Journal\", accusing it of being a \"megaphone for the evil Chinese Communist Party\".\n\n\"The Epoch Times\" is known for alleging conspiracies against former Communist Party general secretary Jiang Zemin, under whose administration Falun Gong was suppressed in China.\n\nIn 2005, the \"San Francisco Chronicle\" reported that \"three new U.S.-based, Chinese-language media outlets that provide provocative reporting about the Communist Party, government oppression and social unrest in China [namely \"The Epoch Times\", Sound of Hope, and NTDTV] have ties to the Falun Gong spiritual movement.\" When interviewed, executives at each outlet claimed they did not represent the Falun Gong movement as a whole.\n\n\"The Epoch Times\" also picks up mainstream newswire stories and in some places can resemble a community newspaper. According to sociologist Zhao Yuezhi, \"While mainstream newspaper typically treat Web versions as an extension of the already-existing print version, \"The Epoch Times\" website serves as the master for all its worldwide papers.\"\n\nIn some cases \"The Epoch Times\" operates in a hostile overseas environment, in which \"overseas Chinese media companies choosing to remain independent or publish non-approved content become the targets of an aggressive campaign of elimination or control.\" In one instance Chinese diplomatic officials made threats against media for reporting Falun Gong-related content; in other cases, advertisers and distributors have been regularly threatened not to support \"The Epoch Times\" in any way. Communist Party authorities have been accused of resorting to \"militant methods\" against the newspaper and its staff, including attacking staff and destroying computer equipment.\n\nThe newspaper reported that in 2005 the Communist Party \"exerted hard and soft pressure\" on printing houses in Hong Kong, forcing the paper to stop printing, after it reported on Tibet, human rights, Falun Gong, and was the first media to break the story on SARS. The newspaper was also briefly banned from Malaysia after coming under reported pressure by the Chinese Communist Party.\n\nIn 2016, the newspaper was removed from the pharmacy of Australian National University, after the president of the Chinese Students and Scholars Association confronted the pharmacist and threw out the papers. The incident drew national media coverage over questions of Chinese government sponsored overseas student organizations.\n\nIn September 2017, The German edition of the newspaper, \"The Epoch Times Deutschland\", which became Web-only in 2012, was accused by online magazine \"The China File\" of being aligned with the German far-right, and attractive to supporters of the Alternative for Germany (AfD) party and the anti-immigrant group Pegida. Stefanie Albrecht, a reporter for the German broadcaster RTL who spent several days inside the Berlin office of \"The Epoch Times\" while investigating the far right, said that \"The Epoch Times\" staffers she met had no journalistic training and didn't check facts, trusting instead in the alternative sources they consulted.\n\nIn France, \"The Epoch Times\" gives \"an unfettered platform to Jean-Marie Le Pen, the patriarch of the French far right, and his daughter, Marine, who leads the nationalist party her father founded,\" according to \"The New Republic\".\n\nAccording to \"BuzzFeed News\", \"The Epoch Times\" is known as \"one of the staunchest defenders of Donald Trump's presidency\". The paper has championed Trump's Spygate conspiracy theory in its news coverage and advertising, and the Epoch Media Group's \"Edge of Wonder\" videos on YouTube have spread the far-right, pro-Trump QAnon conspiracy theory.\n\nThe \"Edge of Wonder\" hosts, according to \"The Daily Dot\", \"embrace QAnon completely\" even though \"almost nothing QAnon has foretold has actually taken place\". An NBC News report found that the \"Edge of Wonder\" hosts have been creative director and chief photo editor at \"The Epoch Times,\" and the newspaper promoted \"Edge of Wonder\" videos in dozens of Facebook posts through 2019.\n\nIn a response to a \"BuzzFeed\" report about \"The Epoch Times\"' coverage of Trump, \"The Epoch Times\" editor-in-chief Jasper Fakkert wrote in a letter to readers: \"We see the Trump administration's efforts to change socialist policies in America, as well as set policies to counter infiltration and subversion by China, as remarkable reversals from past policies, and sincere efforts that, if fully realized, will benefit America and the world as a whole.\"\n\nIn September 2018, \"The Epoch Times\" photographer Samira Bouaou broke White House protocol and handed Trump a folder during an official event.\n\nDuring the February 2020 Iowa Democratic Caucuses, \"The Epoch Times\" shared viral disinformation from the conservative group Judicial Watch that falsely alleged inflated voter rolls. The claim, which went viral on Facebook, was debunked by fact checkers and the Iowa secretary of state. A Harvard media expert quoted by NBC News said \"The Epoch Times\" employed a \"classic disinformation tactic\" known as \"trading up the chain,\" in which false stories are repackaged and shared.\n\nDuring a six month period in 2019, \"The Epoch Times\" spent more than $1.5 million on about 11,000 Facebook ads that NBC News said were \"pro-Trump advertisements\". NBC said the amount spent was more than any group except the Trump campaign itself. Political ad spending on Facebook in April 2019 through an account called \"Coverage of the Trump Presidency by The Epoch Times\" exceeded any politician's spending except Trump and Democrat Joe Biden. Journalist Judd Legum wrote in May 2019 that \"The Epoch Times\" ads were \"boosting Donald Trump and floating conspiracy theories about Joe Biden\".\n\nIn August 2019, Facebook banned \"The Epoch Times\" from advertising on its platform, after finding that the newspaper broke Facebook's political transparency rules by publishing pro-Trump subscription ads through sockpuppet pages such as “Honest Paper” and “Pure American Journalism\". A Facebook representative told NBC: \"Over the past year we removed accounts associated with \"The Epoch Times\" for violating our ad policies, including trying to get around our review systems.\" \n\n\"The Epoch Times\" publisher, Stephen Gregory, wrote in response that the paper didn't intend to violate Facebook's rules. The video ads, he wrote, \"are overtly \"Epoch Times\" advertisements for our subscriptions,” and \"discuss \"The Epoch Times\"’ editorial and feature content and encourage people to subscribe to our print newspaper\".\n\nIn October 2019, the fact-checking website Snopes reported that \"The Epoch Times\" is closely linked to a large network of Facebook pages and groups called \"The BL\" (\"The Beauty of Life\") that shares pro-Trump views and conspiracy theories such as QAnon. \"The BL\" has spent at least $510,698 on Facebook advertising. Hundreds of the ads were removed for violations of Facebook's advertising rules. The \"BL\" network of pages has 28 million followers on Facebook in total, according to \"Snopes\". The editor-in-chief of \"The BL\" recently worked as editor-in-chief of \"The Epoch Times,\" and several other \"BL\" employees are listed as current or former employees of \"The Epoch Times\". \"The BL\" is registered in Middletown, New York, to an address that also is registered to Falun Gong's \"Sound of Hope Radio Network\" and is associated with the YouTube series \"Beyond Science,\" but Snopes found \"the outlet as a whole is literally the English-language edition of \"Epoch Times\" Vietnam\". Snopes found that\"The BL\" uses more than 300 fake Facebook profiles based in Vietnam and other countries, using names, stock photos and celebrity photos in their profiles to emulate Americans, to administer more than 150 pro-Trump Facebook groups amplifying its content.\n\nAn unnamed representative of \"The BL\" wrote to \"Snopes\" that “The BL has NO connection with \"The Epoch Times\",\" and a \"few of our staff has job experience … working in \"The Epoch Times\", but now they are working full time in The BL.” \"The Epoch Times\"’ publisher, Stephen Gregory, said “\"The Epoch Times\" is not affiliated with the BL.” \n\nIn December 2019, Facebook announced it removed a large network of accounts, pages, and groups linked to The BL and Epoch Media Group for coordinated inauthentic behavior on behalf of a foreign actor. The network had 55 million followers on Facebook and Instagram, and $9.5 million had been spent on Facebook ads through its accounts.\n\nOn December 20, 2019, \"The New York Times\" reported, in \"Facebook Discovers Fakes That Show Evolution of Disinformation\", that Facebook had deleted \"hundreds of accounts with ties to the Epoch Media Group, parent company of the Falun Gong-related publication and conservative news outlet \"The Epoch Times\"\" using fake profile photos that had been generated using artificial intelligence. The Atlantic Council Digital Forensic Research Lab (DFRLab) director Graham Brookie stated that the coordinated network of fake accounts demonstrated \"an eerie, tech-enabled future of disinformation\". Facebook's head of security policy, Nathaniel Gleicher, said, \"What’s new here is that this is purportedly a U.S.-based media company leveraging foreign actors posing as Americans to push political content. We’ve seen it a lot with state actors in the past.\"\n\nAs Facebook banned \"The Epoch Times\" from advertising, the newspaper shifted its spending to YouTube. \"The Epoch Times\" has spent more than $1 million on YouTube ads, some promoting conspiracy theories, \"The New York Times\" reported in February 2020.\n\nIn November 2004, the Chinese version of \"The Epoch Times\" published a series of editorials titled \"Nine Commentaries on the Communist Party\". According to China scholar David Ownby, the Nine Commentaries are a \"condemnation of communism and a direct indictment of the legitimacy of the Chinese Communist Party's rule in China\". While acknowledging the \"unnecessary violence\" the Chinese Communist Party has inflicted, Ownby finds that the lack of balance and nuance in tone and style makes the editorials resemble \"anti-Communist propaganda written in Taiwan in the 1950s\".\n\nAccording to Ming Xia, political science professor at the Graduate Center at the City University of New York, \"The Epoch Times\" represents part of Falun Gong's effort to expand to non-practitioners, and \"is part of the Falun Gong strategy to embed itself into the large civil society for influence and legitimacy\". He described \"The Epoch Times\" staff as largely part-time and volunteer, and said they \"do not follow the protocols professional journalists abide by\".\n\n\"The Epoch Times\" has been criticized by some scholars for biases, particularly regarding the Chinese Communist Party and mainland China issues, as well as for being a \"mouthpiece\" of the Falun Gong movement. James To, a New Zealand political scientist, described \"The Epoch Times\" as the \"primary mouthpiece\" of Falun Gong, writing that it \"lacks credibility\", despite the newspaper posing a \"viable threat to the CCP\" by publishing articles about the party's negative aspects. In his book \"Blocked on Weibo: What Gets Suppressed on China's Version of Twitter and Why,\" University of Toronto research fellow Jason Q. Ng referred to the paper's coverage of mainland China issues as \"heavily biased against the Communist Party\" and thus its reportage \"should be viewed skeptically\".\n\nSeth Hettna wrote in \"The New Republic\" that \"The Epoch Times\" \"has built a global propaganda machine, similar to Russia’s Sputnik or RT, that pushes a mix of alternative facts and conspiracy theories that has won it far-right acolytes around the world\".\n\nJoan Donovan of the Shorenstein Center on Media, Politics and Public Policy at Harvard University called \"The Epoch Times\" \"a known disinformation operation\".\n\nBen Collins of NBC News called \"The Epoch Times\" a \"pro-Trump conspiracy website\".\n\nThe paper has also been lauded by some political commentators and media experts. Ethan Gutmann of the Foundation for Defense of Democracies, a neoconservative think tank, has characterized \"The Epoch Times\" as a leader in political analysis of the Chinese regime, writing: \"With the \"Chinese Regime in Crisis\" series, \"Epoch Times\" has finally and indisputably arrived. Any China expert who wants to save face by pretending the paper doesn't exist can continue to do so—for a little while anyway—but they had better be reading it in secret.\"\n\nJames Bettinger, a professor of Communications at Stanford University and the director of the John S. Knight Journalism Fellowships, said \"Even if \"Epoch Times\" is not associated with Falun Gong, if they consistently write about Falun Gong in the same perspective, or if there are no articles examining Falun Gong, people would perceive it as being not credible.\" Orville Schell, dean of the Graduate School of Journalism at University of California, Berkeley, said in 2005 that \"It's hard to vouch for their quality because it's difficult to corroborate, but it's not something to be dismissed as pure propaganda.\"\n\nIn his 2008 book on Falun Gong, David Ownby wrote that \"The Epoch Times\" articles are \"well written and interesting, if occasionally idiosyncratic in their coverage\". According to Ownby, the newspaper has been praised and also criticized for a perceived bias against the CCP, and support of Falun Gong practitioners and other dissidents such as Tibetans, Taiwanese independence advocates, democracy activists, Uyghurs and others. The paper, therefore, is often assessed in light of its connection to Falun Gong, rather than a thorough analysis of its editorial content.\n\nJiao Guobiao, a former Beijing University journalism professor who was dismissed after criticizing the Propaganda Department, proposed that even if \"The Epoch Times\" published only negative information highly critical of the CCP, the weight of their attacks could never begin to counterbalance the positive propaganda the party publishes about itself. In addressing media balance, Jiao noted that the Chinese public lacked negative, critical information regarding their country. As such, he noted for a need of media balance based on the principles of freedom, equality, and legality, and that media balance \"is the result of the collective imbalances of all\".\n\nIn 2010, \"The Epoch Times\" successfully defended its reporting in the Canadian court system, when a publisher it had reported on, Crescent Chau of \"Les Presses Chinoises\", sued for libel and lost at the Superior Court of Quebec. In examining the case, John Gordon Miller, a Canadian journalist and media professor, noted that articles in question \"appear to be thoroughly and professionally reported\".\n\nHayes Brown of \"Buzzfeed News\" called \"The Epoch Times\" \"one of the staunchest defenders of Donald Trump's presidency\".\n\nU.S. Representative Paul Gosar, Republican of Arizona, called \"The Epoch Times\" \"our favorite paper\".\n\nHaifeng Huang, a professor of political science, said, \"I'm not exactly clear why they have become such a major pro-Trump voice\" but \"part of it is perhaps because they regard President Trump as tough on the Chinese government and therefore a natural ally for them\".\n\nThe web-only, German edition of the paper, \"Epoch Times Deutschland\", has been criticized by media analysts for its favorable coverage of far right populist groups such as the Alternative for Germany and Pegida, both of which proclaim anti-immigrant views, and promotion of skepticism towards mainstream German media and politicians. A German media report described the outlet, along with Sputnik News and Kopp Report, as a \"favorite\" of Pegida supporters, and found that its articles critical of immigration have been shared almost daily.\n\nA report by the Institute for Strategic Dialogue, a London-based think tank, said the German edition of \"The Epoch Times\" \"primarily runs anti-West, anti-American and pro-Kremlin content – a high proportion of this content is based on unverified information.\"\n\nIn December 2019, the English Wikipedia the English and Chinese online versions of \"The Epoch Times\" as an \"unreliable source\" to use as a reference in Wikipedia. The publication has been described as \"an advocacy group for the Falun Gong, and... a biased or opinionated source that frequently publishes conspiracy theories\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1988220", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988220", "title": "Lucens reactor", "text": "Lucens reactor\n\nThe Lucens reactor was a 6 MW experimental nuclear power reactor built next to Lucens, Vaud, Switzerland. After its connection to the electrical grid on 29 January 1968, the reactor only operated for a few months before it suffered an accident on 21 January 1969. The cause was corrosion induced loss of heat dispersal leading to the destruction of a pressure tube which caused an adjacent pressure tube to fail, and partial meltdown of the core, resulting in radioactive contamination of the cavern.\n\nIn 1962 the construction of a Swiss-designed pilot nuclear power plant began. The heavy-water moderated, carbon dioxide gas-cooled reactor was built in a cavern. It produced 28 MW of heat, which was used to generate 6 MW of electricity, and it became critical 29 December 1966. It was fueled by 0.96% enriched uranium alloyed with chromium cased in magnesium alloy (magnesium with 0.6% zirconium) inserted into a graphite matrix. Carbon dioxide gas was pumped into the top of the channels at 6.28 MPa and 223 °C and exited the channels at a pressure of 5.79 MPa and at a temperature of 378 °C.\n\nIt was intended to operate until the end of 1969, but during a startup on 21 January 1969, it suffered a loss-of-coolant accident, leading to a partial core meltdown and the radioactive contamination of the cavern, which was then sealed. Using the criteria of the International Nuclear Event Scale, introduced in 1990 by the International Atomic Energy Agency, the event has been assessed as a Level 4 \"Accident with local consequences\".\n\nThe accident was caused by water condensation forming on some of the magnesium alloy fuel element components during shutdown and corroding them. These corrosion products accumulated in some of the fuel channels. One of the vertical fuel channels was sufficiently blocked by it to impede the flow of carbon dioxide coolant, causing the magnesium alloy cladding to melt and further block the channel. The increase in temperature and exposure of the uranium metal fuel to the coolant eventually caused the fuel to catch fire in the carbon dioxide coolant atmosphere. The pressure tube surrounding the fuel channel split because of overheating and bowing of the burning fuel assembly, and the carbon dioxide coolant leaked out of the reactor.\n\nNo irradiation of workers or the population occurred, though the cavern containing the reactor was seriously contaminated. The cavern was decontaminated and the reactor dismantled over the next few years. The plant was totally decommissioned in 1988 and the last radioactive waste was removed in 2003.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1988233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988233", "title": "Zsolt Bor", "text": "Zsolt Bor\n\nZsolt Bor (born 1949) is a Hungarian physicist, currently working at the University of Szeged. He has a BSc in Electrical Engineering from the Technical University in Kiev (1973), an MSc in physics (1974), and PhD in Physics from JATE University (1975). He is a member of the Academia Europaea, the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, the Quantum Electronics and Optics Division of the European Physical Society, the Commission on Quantum Electronics, and Hungarian Physical Society Department of Optics and Quantum Electronics. He is one of the inventors of the \"Rhinolight phototherapeutical apparatus\" for hay fever therapy.\n"}
{"id": "1988234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988234", "title": "Sándor Csörgő", "text": "Sándor Csörgő\n\nProfessor Sándor Csörgő (16 July 1947 at Egerfarmos, Heves County – 14 February 2008 at Újszeged, Csongrád County) was a Hungarian mathematician, and a professor at the University of Szeged.\n\nHis main fields were probability, mathematical statistics, and asymptotic theory. He did important research on the St. Petersburg paradox.\n\nHe was a member of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences.\n\nHis brother Miklós Csörgő was also a mathematician.\n\nCsörgő graduated from the István Dobó High School in Eger, Heves County. He did undergraduate studies in the mathematics department at József Attila University (University of Szeged), graduating in 1970, and immediately joined the János Bolyai Mathematical Institute at the University as a graduate student. In 1972, he presented his doctoral thesis to Béla Szőkefalvi-Nagy and Károly Tandori.\n\nFrom 1972 to 1975 he completed a post-doctoral theses at the Kiev State University under\nAnatoliy Skorokhod. On its completion in 1975, he returned to Szeged, where he was appointed assistant professor, a role he held until 1978, when he was awarded a teaching professorship, leading the Department of Stochastics.\n\nIn 1984 he moved to the United States, where he was visiting researcher at the University of California, San Diego, (1984–1985), Stanford University (1985), the University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill (1989–1990), and the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor (1990–1998).\n\nIn 2000 he returned to the Bolyai Institute to teach and do research.\n\nCsörgő's work is often cited in highly respected domestic and foreign journals, but most often in English. He is among the ISI Highly Cited Researchers in Mathematics.\n\nIn 2001 he was elected as an Associate Member of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, full Membership following in 2007.\n\nHe died in Szeged in 2008 and is buried in Újszeged cemetery.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1988236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988236", "title": "L'incoronazione di Poppea", "text": "L'incoronazione di Poppea\n\nL'incoronazione di Poppea (SV 308, \"The Coronation of Poppaea\") is an Italian opera by Claudio Monteverdi. It was Monteverdi's last opera, with a libretto by Giovanni Francesco Busenello, and was first performed at the Teatro Santi Giovanni e Paolo in Venice during the 1643 carnival season. One of the first operas to use historical events and people, it describes how Poppaea, mistress of the Roman emperor Nero, is able to achieve her ambition and be crowned empress. The opera was revived in Naples in 1651, but was then neglected until the rediscovery of the score in 1888, after which it became the subject of scholarly attention in the late 19th and early 20th centuries. Since the 1960s, the opera has been performed and recorded many times.\n\nThe original manuscript of the score does not exist; two surviving copies from the 1650s show significant differences from each other, and each differs to some extent from the libretto. How much of the music is actually Monteverdi's, and how much the product of others, is a matter of dispute. None of the existing versions of the libretto, printed or manuscript, can be definitively tied to the first performance at the Teatro Santi Giovanni e Paolo, the precise date of which is unknown. Details of the original cast are few and largely speculative, and there is no record of the opera's initial public reception. Despite these uncertainties, the work is generally accepted as part of the Monteverdi operatic canon, his last and perhaps his greatest work.\n\nIn a departure from traditional literary morality, it is the adulterous liaison of Poppea and Nerone which wins the day, although this triumph is demonstrated by history to have been transitory and hollow. In Busenello's version of the story all the major characters are morally compromised. Written when the genre of opera was only a few decades old, the music for \"L'incoronazione di Poppea\" has been praised for its originality, its melody, and for its reflection of the human attributes of its characters. The work helped to redefine the boundaries of theatrical music and established Monteverdi as the leading musical dramatist of his time.\n\nOpera as a dramatic genre originated around the turn of the 17th century, although the word itself was not in use before 1650. Precursors of musical drama included pastoral plays with songs and choruses, and the madrigal comedies of the late 16th century. Monteverdi had already established himself as a leading composer of madrigals before writing his first full-length operas in the years 1606–08, while he was in the service of Vincenzo Gonzaga, Duke of Mantua. These works, \"L'Orfeo\" and \"L'Arianna\", deal respectively with the Greek myths of Orpheus and Ariadne. After a disagreement in 1612 with Vincenzo's successor, Duke Francesco Gonzaga, Monteverdi moved to Venice to take up the position of director of music at St Mark's Basilica, where he remained until his death in 1643.\n\nAmid his official duties at Venice, Monteverdi maintained an interest in theatrical music and produced several stage works, including the substantial \"Il combattimento di Tancredi e Clorinda\" (The battle of Tancred and Clorinda) for the 1624–25 carnival. When the first public opera house in the world opened in Venice in 1637, Monteverdi, by then in his 70th year, returned to writing full-scale opera. He may have been influenced by the solicitations of Giacomo Badoaro, an aristocratic poet and intellectual who sent the elderly composer the libretto for \"Il ritorno d'Ulisse in patria\" (The return of Ulysses). For the 1639–40 carnival season, Monteverdi revived \"L'Arianna\" at the Teatro San Moisè and later produced his setting of \"Il ritorno\" at the Teatro San Cassiano. For the following season he wrote \"Le nozze d'Enea in Lavinia\" (The marriage of Aeneas to Lavinia), now lost, which was performed at the third of Venice's new opera theatres, Teatro Santi Giovanni e Paulo.\n\nAnother wealthy poet-librettist in the Venice milieu was Giovanni Francesco Busenello (1598–1659), like Badoaro a member of the intellectual society Accademia degli Incogniti. This group of free-thinking intellectuals had significant influence on the cultural and political life of Venice in the mid-17th century, and was particularly active in the promotion of musical theatre. Busenello had worked with Monteverdi's younger contemporary Francesco Cavalli, providing the libretto for \"Didone\" (1641), and according to theatre historian Mark Ringer was \"among the greatest librettists in the history of opera\". It is unclear how and when Busenello met Monteverdi, though both had served in the Gonzaga court. Ringer speculates that they drew joint inspiration from their experiences of the Gonzaga style of rule, \"a mixture of artistic cultivation and brutality\", and thus developed a shared artistic vision.\n\nThe main sources for the story told in Busenello's libretto are the \"Annals\" of Tacitus; book 6 of Suetonius's history \"The Twelve Caesars\"; books 61–62 of Dio Cassius's \"Roman History\"; and an anonymous play \"Octavia\" (once attributed to the real life Seneca), from which the opera's fictional nurse characters were derived. The main story is based on real people and events. According to the analyst Magnus Schneider, the character of Drusilla was taken from Girolamo Bargagli's 16th-century comedy \"The Pilgrim Woman\".\n\nBusenello condensed historical events from a seven-year period (AD 58 to AD 65) into a single day's action, and imposed his own sequence. He was open about his intention to adapt history for his own purposes, writing in the preface to his libretto that \"here we represent these actions differently.\" Thus he gave his characters different attributes from those of their historical counterparts: Nerone's cruelty is downplayed; the wronged wife Ottavia is presented as a murderous plotter; Seneca, whose death in reality had nothing to do with Nerone's liaison with Poppea, appears as more noble and virtuous than he was; Poppea's motives are represented as based on genuine love as much as on a lust for power; the depiction of Lucano as a drunken carouser disguises the real life poet Lucan's status as a major Roman poet with marked anti-imperial and pro-republican tendencies.\n\nThe libretto has survived in numerous forms—two printed versions, seven manuscript versions or fragments, and an anonymous scenario, or summary, related to the original production. One of the printed editions relates to the opera's 1651 Naples revival; the other is Busenello's final version published in 1656 as part of a collection of his libretti. The manuscripts are all from the 17th century, though not all are specifically dated; some are \"literary\" versions unrelated to performances. The most significant of the manuscript copies is that discovered in Udine, Northern Italy, in 1997 by Monteverdi scholar Paolo Fabbri. This manuscript, according to music historian Ellen Rosand, \"bristles with the immediacy of a performance\", and is the only copy of the libretto that mentions Monteverdi by name. This, and other descriptive details missing from other copies, leads Rosand to speculate that the manuscript was copied during the course of a performance. This impression is reinforced, she says, by the inclusion of a paean of praise to the singer (Anna di Valerio according to Schneider) who played the role of Poppea. Although its dating is uncertain, the manuscript's affinity with the original scenario has led to speculation that the Udine version may have been compiled from the first performance.\n\nTwo versions of the musical score of \"L'incoronazione\" exist, both from the 1650s. The first was rediscovered in Venice in 1888, the second in Naples in 1930. The Naples score is linked to the revival of the opera in that city in 1651. Both scores contain essentially the same music, though each differs from the printed libretto and has unique additions and omissions. In each score the vocal lines are shown with basso continuo accompaniment; the instrumental sections are written in three parts in the Venice score, four parts in the Naples version, without in either case specifying the instruments. Conductor Nikolaus Harnoncourt, a leading Monteverdi interpreter, refers to the contemporary practice of leaving much of a score open, to allow for differing local performance conditions. Another convention made it unnecessary to write down detail that performers would take for granted. Neither Venice nor Naples score can be linked to the original performance; although the Venice version is generally regarded as the more authentic, modern productions tend to use material from both.\nThe question of authorship—essentially of how much of the music is Monteverdi's—is a contentious one, which Rosand acknowledges might never be entirely resolved. Virtually none of the contemporary documentation mentions Monteverdi, and music by other composers has been identified in the scores, including passages found in the score of Francesco Sacrati's opera \"La finta pazza\". A particular style of metric notation used in some passages of the \"L'incoronazione\" scores suggests the work of younger composers. The most debated areas of authorship are parts of the prologue, Ottone's music, the flirtation scene between Valetto and Damigella, and the coronation scene including the final \"Pur ti miro\" duet.\n\nModern scholarship inclines to the view that \"L'incoronazione\" was the result of collaboration between Monteverdi and others, with the old composer playing a guiding role. Composers who may have assisted include Sacrati, Benedetto Ferrari and Francesco Cavalli. Ringer suggests that Monteverdi's age and health may have prevented him from completing the opera without help from younger colleagues; he speculates about an arrangement resembling \"the workshop of Rubens, who might design a painting and handle the important details himself but leave the more mundane aspects ... to younger apprentice artists.\" The musicologist Alan Curtis believes that only a single collaborator was involved, and published his 1989 edition of \"L'incoronazione\" under the joint authorship of Monteverdi and Sacrati. The American musical analyst Eric Chafe's study of Monteverdi's tonal language supports the collaboration theory and postulates that some of the sections in question, including the prologue, the coronation scene and the final duet, reflect Monteverdi's intentions and may have been written under his direct supervision.\n\n\"L'incoronazione di Poppea\" is frequently described as a story in which virtue is punished and greed rewarded, running counter to the normal conventions of literary morality. The musicologist Tim Carter calls the opera's characters and their actions \"famously problematic\", and its messages \"at best ambiguous and at worst perverted\", while Rosand refers to an \"extraordinary glorification of lust and ambition\". The critic Edward B. Savage asserts that despite the lack of a moral compass in virtually all the main characters, Busenello's plot is itself essentially moral, and that \"this morality is sustained by the phenomenon of dramatic irony\". From their knowledge of Roman history, audiences in Venice would have recognised that the apparent triumph of love over virtue, celebrated by Nerone and Poppea in the closing duet, was in reality hollow, and that not long after this event Nerone kicked the pregnant Poppea to death. They would have known, too, that Nerone himself committed suicide a few years later, and that others—Ottavia, Lucano, Ottone—also met untimely deaths.\n\nSeventeenth-century Rome, under autocratic papal rule, was perceived by republican Venetians as a direct threat to their liberties. Rosand has suggested that Venetian audiences would have understood the Poppea story in the context of their own times as a moral lesson demonstrating the superiority of Venice, and that \"such immorality was only possible in a decaying society, not [in] a civilized nation\". Rosand concludes that the opera's broad moral compass places it first in a long tradition of operatic works that embraces Mozart's \"Don Giovanni\" and Verdi's \"Don Carlos\". Music analyst Clifford Bartlett writes that \"Monteverdi's glorious music goes beyond Busenello's cynical realism, and presents human behaviour in a better light\".\n\nThe score for \"L'incoronazione\" features 28 singing characters, including 7 ensemble parts, of which the two Amori may only have appeared in the 1651 Naples production. The original Venetian production evidently made use of extensive role-doubling, allowing the opera to be staged with no more than 11 singers: two female sopranos, three male sopranos (castratos), two contraltos (castratos), two tenors and two basses. Schneider has suggested the following reconstruction of the cast and the doubling plan from the 1643 premiere on the basis of an examination of, first, contemporary casting and doubling practices, secondly, the recently discovered correspondence of the impresario Marquess Cornelio Bentivoglio, and finally the libretto for \"La finta savia\", which preceded \"Poppea\" on the stage of the Santi Giovanni e Paolo in the 1643 Carnival and was written for the same cast.\nThe action takes place in Imperial Rome around AD 60, in and around Poppea's villa and in various locations within the imperial palace.\n\nThe goddesses of Fortune and Virtue dispute which of them has the most power over humankind. They are interrupted by the god of Love, who claims greater power than either: \"I tell the virtues what to do, I govern the fortunes of men.\" When they have heard his story, he says, they will admit his superior powers.\n\nOttone arrives at Poppea's villa, intent on pursuing his love. Seeing the house guarded by the Emperor Nerone's soldiers he realises he has been supplanted, and his love song turns to a lament: \"Ah, ah, perfidious Poppea!\" He leaves, and the waiting soldiers gossip about their master's amorous affairs, his neglect of matters of state and his treatment of the Empress Ottavia. Nerone and Poppea enter and exchange words of love before Nerone departs. Poppea is warned by her nurse, Arnalta, to be careful of the empress's wrath and to distrust Nerone's apparent love for her, but Poppea is confident: \"I fear no setback at all.\"\n\nThe scene switches to the palace, where Ottavia bemoans her lot; \"Despised queen, wretched consort of the emperor!\" Her nurse suggests she take a lover of her own, advice which Ottavia angrily rejects. Seneca, Nerone's former tutor, addresses the empress with flattering words, and is mocked by Ottavia's page, Valleto, who threatens to set fire to the old man's beard. Left alone, Seneca receives a warning from the goddess Pallade that his life is in danger. Nerone enters and confides that he intends to displace Ottavia and marry Poppea. Seneca demurs; such a move would be divisive and unpopular. \"I care nothing for the senate and the people,\" replies Nerone, and when the sage persists he is furiously dismissed. Poppea joins Nerone, and tells him that Seneca claims to be the power behind the imperial throne. This so angers Nerone that he instructs his guards to order Seneca to commit suicide.\n\nAfter Nerone leaves, Ottone steps forward and after failing to persuade Poppea to reinstate him in her affections, privately resolves to kill her. He is then comforted by a noblewoman, Drusilla; realising that he can never regain Poppea he offers to marry Drusilla, who joyfully accepts him. But Ottone admits to himself: \"Drusilla is on my lips, Poppea is in my heart.\"\n\nIn his garden, Seneca learns from the god Mercurio that he is soon to die. The order duly arrives from Nerone, and Seneca instructs his friends to prepare a suicide bath. His followers try to persuade him to remain alive, but he rejects their pleading. \"The warm current of my guiltless blood shall carpet with royal purple my road to death.\" At the palace Ottavia's page flirts with a lady-in-waiting, while Nerone and the poet Lucano celebrate the death of Seneca in a drunken, cavorting song contest, and compose love songs in honour of Poppea. Elsewhere in the palace, Ottone, in a long soliloquy, ponders how he could have thought to kill Poppea with whom he remains hopelessly in love. He is interrupted by a summons from Ottavia, who to his dismay orders him to kill Poppea. Threatening to denounce him to Nerone unless he complies, she suggests that he disguise himself as a woman to commit the deed. Ottone agrees to do as she bids, privately calling on the gods to relieve him of his life. He then persuades Drusilla to lend him her clothes.\n\nIn the garden of Poppea's villa, Arnalta sings her mistress to sleep while the god of Love looks on. Ottone, now disguised as Drusilla, enters the garden and raises his sword to kill Poppea. Before he can do so, Love strikes the sword from his hand, and he runs away. His fleeing figure is seen by Arnalta and the now awakened Poppea, who believe that he is Drusilla. They call on their servants to give chase, while Love sings triumphantly \"I protected her!\"\n\nDrusilla muses on the life of happiness before her, when Arnalta arrives with a lictor. Arnalta accuses Drusilla of being Poppea's assailant, and she is arrested. As Nerone enters, Arnalta denounces Drusilla, who protests her innocence. Threatened with torture unless she names her accomplices, Drusilla decides to protect Ottone by confessing her own guilt. Nerone commands her to suffer a painful death, at which point Ottone rushes in and reveals the truth: that he had acted alone, at the command of the Empress Ottavia, and that Drusilla was innocent of complicity. Nerone is impressed by Drusilla's fortitude, and in an act of clemency spares Ottone's life, ordering him banished. Drusilla chooses exile with him. Nerone now feels entitled to act against Ottavia and she is exiled, too. This leaves the way open for him to marry Poppea, who is overjoyed: \"No delay, no obstacle can come between us now.\"\n\nOttavia bids a quiet farewell to Rome, while in the throne room of the palace the coronation ceremony for Poppea is prepared. The Consuls and Tribunes enter, and after a brief eulogy place the crown on Poppea's head. Watching over the proceedings is the god of Love with his mother, Venere, and a divine chorus. Nerone and Poppea sing a rapturous love duet (\"I gaze at you, I possess you\") as the opera ends.\n\n\"L'incoronazione di Poppea\" was first performed at the Teatro Santi Giovanni e Paolo, Venice, as part of the 1642–43 carnival season. The theatre, opened in 1639, had earlier staged the première of Monteverdi's opera \"Le Nozze d'Enea in Lavinia\", and a revival of the composer's \"Il ritorno d'Ulisse in patria\". The theatre was later described by an observer: \"... marvellous scene changes, majestic and grand appearances [of the performers] ... and a magnificent flying machine; you see, as if commonplace, glorious heavens, deities, seas, royal palaces, woods, forests ...\". The theatre held about 900 people, and the stage was much bigger than the auditorium.\n\nThe date of the first performance of \"L'incoronazione\" and the number of times the work was performed are unknown; the only date recorded is that of the beginning of the carnival, 26 December 1642. A surviving scenario, or synopsis, prepared for the first performances, gives neither the date nor the composer's name. The identity of only one of the première cast is known for certain: Anna Renzi, who played Ottavia. Renzi, in her early twenties, is described by Ringer as \"opera's first prima donna\" and was, according to a contemporary source, \"as skillful in acting as she [was] excellent in music\". On the basis of the casting of the opera which shared the theatre with \"L'incoronazione\" during the 1642–43 season, it is possible that Poppea was played by Anna di Valerio, and Nerone by the castrato Stefano Costa. There are no surviving accounts of the opera's public reception, unless the encomium to the singer playing Poppea, part of the libretto documentation discovered at Udine in 1997, relates to the first performance.\n\nThere is only one documented early revival of \"L'incoronazione\", in Naples in 1651. The fact that it was revived at all is noted by Carter as \"remarkable, in an age where memories were short and large-scale musical works often had limited currency beyond their immediate circumstance.\" Thereafter there are no records of the work's performance for more than 250 years.\n\nAfter two centuries in which Monteverdi had been largely forgotten as a composer of opera, interest in his theatrical works revived in the late 19th century. A shortened version of \"Orfeo\" was performed in Berlin in 1881; a few years later the Venice score of \"L'incoronazione\" was rediscovered, leading to a surge of scholarly attention. In 1905, in Paris, the French composer Vincent d'Indy directed a concert performance of \"L'incoronazione\", limited to \"the most beautiful and interesting parts of the work.\" D'Indy's edition was published in 1908, and his version was staged at the Théâtre des Arts, Paris, on 5 February 1913, the first recorded theatrical performance of the work since 1651. The work was not received uncritically; the dramatist Romain Rolland, who had assisted d'Indy, wrote that Monteverdi had \"sacrifice[d] freedom and musical beauty to beauty of line. Here we no longer have the impalpable texture of musical poetry that we admire in \"Orfeo\".\"\n\nIn April 1926 the German-born composer Werner Josten directed the opera's first American performance, at Smith College, Massachusetts where he was professor of music. His production was based on d'Indy's edition. The following year, on 27 October, \"L'incoronazione\" received its British première, with a performance at Oxford Town Hall by members of the Oxford University Opera Club using a score edited by Jack Westrup. In the 1930s several editions of the opera were prepared by leading contemporary musicians, including Gustav Mahler's son-in-law Ernst Krenek, Hans Redlich, Carl Orff (who left his version incomplete), and Gian Francesco Malipiero. Malipiero's edition was used to stage performances in Paris (1937) and Venice (1949). The Redlich edition was performed at Morley College, London in 1948, under the direction of Michael Tippett.\n\nRichard Strauss made reference to \"L'incoronazione\" in the Act III music lesson scene of his 1935 opera, \"Die schweigsame Frau\", completely recomposing the Act 2, Scene 5 duet \"Sento un certo non so che\" in his own florid and late-Romantic idiom as one of many uses of preexisting musical material to set an appreciably antique atmosphere by the standards of the time. In that scene, the duet is used as an excuse for the title role to flirt with her husband, in disguise as a singing teacher.\n\nUntil the 1960s performances of \"L'incoronazione\" were relatively rare in commercial opera theatres, but they became increasingly frequent in the decade that saw the quatercentenary of Monteverdi's birth. The 1962 Glyndebourne Festival anticipated the quatercentenary with a lavish production using a new edition by Raymond Leppard. This version, controversially, was adapted for a large orchestra, and though it was enthusiastically received it has subsequently been described by Carter as a \"travesty\", and its continuing use in some modern productions as indefensible. A version by Erich Kraack was conducted by Herbert von Karajan at the Vienna State Opera in 1963; the following decades saw performances at Lincoln Center in New York, Turin, Venice and a revival of the Leppard version at Glyndebourne. The Venice performance at La Fenice on 5 December 1980 was based on Alan Curtis's new edition, described by Rosand as \"the first to attempt a scholarly collation and rationalization of the sources\". The Curtis edition was used by Santa Fe Opera in August 1986, in a production which according to \"The New York Times\" \"gave music precedence over musicology\", resulting in a performance that was \"rich and stunningly beautiful\".\n\nThe 350th anniversary of Monteverdi's death, celebrated in 1993, brought a further wave of interest in his works, and since that time performances of \"L'incoronazione\" have been given in opera houses and music festivals all over the world. In April 1994 the Juilliard School in New York presented a version based on Curtis's edition, with an orchestra that mixed baroque and modern elements. Allan Kozinn wrote in \"The New York Times\" that this production had done well to resolve daunting problems arising from Monteverdi's having left instrumentation and scoring details open, and from the numerous competing versions of the score. In 2000 the work was chosen by Opéra de Montréal as the company's first venture into baroque opera, with a performance directed by Renaud Doucet. \"Opera Canada\" reported that Doucet had found \"a perfect rhetoric for a modern crowd, creating an atmosphere of moral ambivalence that the courtiers of Monteverdi's day would have taken for granted.\" Less successful, in the critics' eyes, was the innovative English National Opera (ENO) production directed by Chen Shi-Zheng in October 2007. According to \"The London Evening Standard\" critic Fiona Maddocks the cast was strong, but they all seemed to be playing in the wrong roles. For unexplained reasons much of the action took place underwater; at one point \"a snorkeller flip-flops across the stage in a harness.\" Seneca \"wore green Wellington boots and pushed a lawnmower\". At the end of 2007, in his opera review of the year in \"The Daily Telegraph\", Rupert Christiansen compared ENO's production unfavourably with a punk musical version of the opera that had been staged during that year's Edinburgh Festival.\n\nIn May 2008 \"L'incoronazione\" returned to Glyndebourne in a new production by Robert Carsen, with Leppard's large-scale orchestration replaced by the period instruments of the Orchestra of the Age of Enlightenment under Emmanuelle Haïm. \"The Organ's\" reviewer praised the vocal quality of the performers, found Haim's handling of the orchestra \"a joy throughout\" and declared the whole production \"a blessed relief\" after the previous year's ENO staging. On 19 August the Glyndebourne singers and the orchestra, led by Haim, presented a semi-staged version of the opera at the 2008 BBC Proms, at the Royal Albert Hall. Elsewhere the French-based ensemble Les Arts Florissants, under its director William Christie, presented the Monteverdi trilogy of operas (\"L'Orfeo\", \"Il ritorno d'Ulisse\" and \"L'incoronazione\") in the period 2008–10, with a series of performances at the Teatro Real in Madrid.\n\nWritten early in the history of opera, \"L'incoronazione di Poppea\" broke new ground in matching music to stage action, and in its musical reproductions of the natural inflections of the human voice. Monteverdi uses all the means for vocal expression available to a composer of his time—aria, arioso, arietta, ensemble, recitative—although Ringer comments that in this work the boundaries between these forms are more than usually porous. These elements are woven into a continuous fabric which ensures that the music always serves the drama, while maintaining a tonal and formal unity throughout. The characters have strong emotions, fears and desires which are reflected in their music. Thus Poppea's and Nerone's scenes are generally lyrical, sung mainly in the forms of arioso and aria, while Ottavia sings only in dramatic recitative. Seneca's music is bold and compelling, while Ottone's is hesitant and limited in range, \"entirely inappropriate for anyone aspiring to be a man of action\" according to Carter. Within this arrangement Monteverdi creates enough melodies to ensure that the opera is musically as well as dramatically memorable.\n\nMonteverdi employs specific musical devices to signify moods and situations. For example, triple metre signifies the language of love for Nerone and Ottone (unfulfilled in the latter case); forceful arpeggios are used to represent conflict; and the interlacing of texts, written as separate verses by Busenello, indicates sexual tension in the scenes with Nerone and Poppea, and escalates the discord between Nerone and Seneca. The technique of \"concitato genere\"—rapid semiquavers sung on one note—is used to represent rage. Secret truths may be hinted at as, for example, when Seneca's friends plead with him to reconsider his suicide in a chromatic madrigal chorus which Monteverdi scholar Denis Arnold finds reminiscent of Monteverdi's Mantuan days, carrying a tragic power rarely seen in 17th century opera. This is followed, however, by a cheerful diatonic section by the same singers which, says Rosand, suggests a lack of real sympathy with Seneca's predicament. The descending tetrachord ostinato on which the final duet of the opera is built has been anticipated in the scene in which Nerone and Lucano celebrate Seneca's death, hinting at an ambivalence in the relationship between emperor and poet. According to Rosand: \"in both cases it is surely the traditional association of that pattern with sexual love that is being evoked.\"\n\nArnold asserts that the music of \"L'incoronazione\" has greater variety than any other opera by Monteverdi, and that the purely solo music is intrinsically more interesting than that of \"Il ritorno\". The musical peaks, according to commentators, include the final duet (despite its doubtful authorship), Ottavia's act 1 lament, Seneca's farewell and the ensuing madrigal, and the drunken Nerone–Lucano singing competition, often performed with strong homoerotic overtones. Ringer describes this scene as arguably the most brilliant in the whole opera, with \"florid, synchronous coloratura by both men creating thrilling, virtuosic music that seems to compel the listener to share in their joy.\" Rosand finds Nerone's solo aria that closes the scene something of an anticlimax, after such stimulation.\n\nDespite continuing debates about authorship, the work is almost always treated as Monteverdi's—although Rosand observes that some scholars attribute it to \"Monteverdi\" (in quotation marks). Ringer calls the opera \"Monteverdi's last and arguably greatest work,\" a unified masterpiece of \"unprecedented depth and individuality\". Carter observes how Monteverdi's operas redefined the boundaries of theatrical music, and calls his contribution to 17th-century Venetian opera \"remarkable by any standard\". Harnoncourt reflects thus: \"What is difficult to understand ... is the mental freshness with which the 74-year-old composer, two years before his death, was able to surpass his pupils in the most modern style and to set standards which were to apply to the music theatre of the succeeding centuries.\"\n\nThe table uses the numberings from the 1656 printed version of Busenello's libretto, and includes the two act 2 scenes for which no music exists in the surviving scores. Typically, \"scenes\" comprise recitative, arioso, aria and ensemble elements, with occasional instrumental (sinfonia) passages. The boundaries between these elements are often indistinct; Denis Arnold, commenting on the musical continuity, writes that \"with few exceptions it is impossible to extricate the arias and duets from the fabric of the opera.\"\nThe first recording of \"L'incoronazione\", with Walter Goehr conducting the Tonhalle-Orchester Zürich in a live stage performance, was issued in 1954. This LP version, which won a Grand Prix du Disque in 1954, is the only recording of the opera that predates the revival of the piece that began with the 1962 Glyndebourne Festival production. In 1963 Herbert von Karajan and the Vienna Staatsoper issued a version described by \"Gramophone\" as \"far from authentic\", while the following year John Pritchard and the Royal Philharmonic Orchestra recorded an abridged version using Leppard's Glyndebourne orchestration. Leppard conducted a Sadler's Wells production, which was broadcast by the BBC and recorded on 27 November 1971. This is the only recording of the opera in English.\n\nNikolaus Harnoncourt's 1974 version, the first recording without cuts, used period instruments in an effort to achieve a more authentic sound, although Denis Arnold has criticised Harnoncourt's \"over-ornamentation\" of the score, particularly his use of oboe and trumpet flourishes. Arnold showed more enthusiasm for Alan Curtis's 1980 recording, live from La Fenice in Venice. Curtis uses a small band of strings, recorders and continuo, with a trumpets reserved for the final coronation scene. Subsequent recordings have tended to follow the path of authenticity, with versions from baroque specialists including Richard Hickox and the City of London Baroque Sinfonia (1988), René Jacobs and Concerto Vocale (1990), and John Eliot Gardiner with the English Baroque Soloists. Sergio Vartolo's production of the opera at Pigna, Corsica, was recorded for Brilliant Classics in 2004. A feature of this recording is the casting of a soprano Nerone in acts I and III, and a tenor Nerone in act II, to allow for the differing vocal requirements of the role in these acts. Vartolo accepts that \"a staged performance would almost certainly require a different approach\".\n\nIn more recent years, videotape and DVD versions have proliferated. The first was in 1979, a version directed by Harnoncourt with the Zurich Opera and chorus. Leppard's second Glyndebourne production, that of 1984, was released in DVD form in 2004. Since then, productions directed by Jacobs, Christophe Rousset and Marc Minkowski have all been released on DVD, along with Emmanuelle Haïm's 2008 Glyndebourne production in which the Festival finally rejects Leppard's big band version in favour of Haim's period instruments, to give an experience closer to that of the original audience. The 2010 production at the Teatro Real in Madrid, conducted by William Christie, was released on DVD in 2012.\n\nSince the beginning of the 20th century the score of \"L'incoronazione\" has been edited frequently. Some editions, prepared for particular performances (e.g. Westrup's for the 1927 Oxford Town Hall performance) have not been published. The following are the main published editions since 1904. Years of publication often postdate the first performances from these editions.\n\n\nFurther reading\n\n"}
{"id": "1988239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988239", "title": "Fiacha", "text": "Fiacha\n\nFiacha (earlier Fíachu) is a name borne by numerous figures from Irish history and mythology, including:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1988240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988240", "title": "László Kalmár", "text": "László Kalmár\n\nLászló Kalmár (27 March 1905, Edde – 2 August 1976, Mátraháza) was a Hungarian mathematician and Professor at the University of Szeged. Kalmár is considered the founder of mathematical logic and theoretical computer science in Hungary.\n\nKalmár was of Jewish ancestry. His early life mixed promise and tragedy. His father died when he was young, and his mother died when he was 17, the year he entered the University of Budapest, making him essentially an orphan.\n\nKalmár's brilliance manifested itself while in Budapest schools. At the University of Budapest, his teachers included Kürschák and Fejér. His fellow students included the future logician Rózsa Péter. Kalmár graduated in 1927. He discovered mathematical logic, his chosen field, while visiting Göttingen in 1929.\n\nUpon completing his doctorate at Budapest, he took up a position at the University of Szeged. That university was mostly made up of staff from the former University of Kolozsvár, a major Hungarian university before World War I that found itself after the War in Romania. Kolozsvár was renamed Cluj. The Hungarian university moved to Szeged in 1920, where there had previously been no university. The appointment of Haar and Riesz turned Szeged into a major research center for mathematics. Kalmár began his career as a research assistant to Haar and Riesz. Kalmár was appointed a full professor at Szeged in 1947. He was the inaugural holder of Szeged's chair for the Foundations of Mathematics and Computer Science. He also founded Szeged's Cybernetic Laboratory and the Research Group for Mathematical Logic and Automata Theory.\n\nIn mathematical logic, Kalmár proved that certain classes of formulas of the first order predicate calculus were decidable. In 1936, he proved that the predicate calculus could be formulated using a single binary predicate, if the recursive definition of a term was sufficiently rich. (This result is commonly attributed to a 1954 paper of Quine's.) He discovered an alternative form of primitive recursive arithmetic, known as elementary recursive arithmetic, based on primitive functions that differ from the usual kind. He did his utmost to promote computers and computer science in Hungary. He wrote on theoretical computer science, including programming languages, automatic error correction, non-numerical applications of computers, and the connection between computer science and mathematical logic.\n\nKalmar is one of the very few logicians who has raised doubts about Church's Thesis that all intuitively mechanistic, algorithmic functions are representable by recursive functions. \nKalmar was elected to the Hungarian Academy of Sciences in 1949, and was awarded the Kossuth Prize in 1950 and the Hungarian State Prize in 1975.\n\nIn 1933 Kalmár married Erzsébet Arvay; they had four children.\nKalmar defined what are known as elementary functions, number-theoretic functions (i.e. those based on the natural numbers) built up from the notions of composition and variables, the constants 0 and 1, repeated addition + of the constants, proper subtraction ∸, bounded summation and bounded product (Kleene 1952:526). Elimination of the bounded product from this list yields the \"subelementary\" or \"lower elementary\" functions. By use of the abstract computational model called a register machine Schwichtenberg provides a demonstration that \"all elementary functions are computable and totally defined\" (Schwichtenberg 58).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1988252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988252", "title": "Grand Bleu de Gascogne", "text": "Grand Bleu de Gascogne\n\nThe Grand Bleu de Gascogne (FCI No.22) is a breed of dog of the scenthound type, originating in France and used for hunting in packs. Today's breed is the descendant of a very old type of large hunting dog, and is an important breed in the ancestry of many other hounds.\n\nThe Grand Bleu de Gascogne is an imposing large dog, a typical hunting pack hound of the oldest type, with a lean and muscular body, long legs, slightly domed head, long drop ears, and drooping lips. Size is 65 to 72 cm (25.6 to 28.3 ins) at the withers, females slightly smaller. Dogs of this breed should show an attitude of calm strength and nobleness.\n\nThe colour of the coat is white mottled with black, giving a slate blue overall appearance. There are black patches on either side of the head, with a white area on top of the head which has in it a small black oval. Tan \"eyebrow\" marks are over each eye. Faults are deviations in appearance that have an effect on the health and working ability of the dog, as well as an absence of expected features of colour, structure, and size, indicating that a dog with such faults should not be bred. Faults include aggression or fearfulness, anatomical malformation, and lack of type.\n\nAlthough these are large dogs, \"Grand\" does not necessarily refer to the size of the dogs. \"In most cases it is simply a label for a pack that is used for larger game\". Today. the breed is used in hunting boar, deer, and other game.\nThe Grand Bleu de Gascogne is a very large dog weighing 80-120 lbs\n\nNo unusual health problems or claims of extraordinary health have been documented for this breed. Temperament of individual dogs may vary.\n\nThe Grand Bleu de Gascogne ancestors were contemporaries with the St Hubert Hound and English Southern Hound, Comte de Foix kept a pack in the 14th century and Henry IV of France kept a pack in the late 16th and early 17th centuries.\n\nThe Grand Bleu de Gascogne has a long history in the US, the first dogs were bred there in the 18th century; more Grand Bleus are now in the US than France. General Lafayette presented a pack of seven Grand Bleus to George Washington in 1785, who compared their melodious voices to the bells of Moscow.\n\nThe Grand Bleu de Gascogne is noted for its focus on the hunt, as well as a good nose and distinctive, sonorous, deep howl, the breed is \"instinctively a pack hound\". In the past, it was used to hunt deer, wolves, and boar; in the field it is considered a rather slow and ponderous worker and today is predominantly used to hunt hares.\n\nThe Grand Bleu de Gascogne has had a significant influence on the development of several breeds of scent hounds. After the French Revolution, it was used to revitalise the old Saintongeois, creating the Gascon Saintongeois, and the Bluetick Coonhound is considered a direct descendant of the Grand Bleu. The Grand Bleu de Gascogne was used by Sir John Buchanan-Jardine in the development of the Dumfriesshire Hound; in Britain, any native hounds with blue marbled coats are still referred to as 'Frenchies' after this breed.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1988259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988259", "title": "People's Party for Reconstruction and Democracy", "text": "People's Party for Reconstruction and Democracy\n\nThe People's Party for Reconstruction and Democracy (' or PPRD) is a political party in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. It is the political structure established by the former president of the country, Joseph Kabila.\n\nIn the 2006 general election the PPRD won 111 out of 500 seats in the lower house of parliament and became the largest party in parliament. The 2006 general election was the first free election since the 1960s. On November 27, 2006, the presidential candidate supported by the PPRD, Joseph Kabila, was declared the winner of the 2006 Presidential elections, by the Supreme Court of Justice.\nIn the 19 January 2007 Senate elections, the party won 22 out of 108 seats.\n\nIn the 2011 general election the PPRD lost nearly half of its seats in the lower house of parliament, dropping to 63 out of 500 seats. Nevertheless, the PPRD retained its position as the largest party in parliament. \n\nThe party is the leading component of the Alliance of the Presidential Majority, which is the majority bloc in the National Assembly.\n"}
{"id": "1988264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988264", "title": "Serb People's Party (Croatia)", "text": "Serb People's Party (Croatia)\n\nSerb People's Party (, Српска народна странка) is one of the political parties that represent ethnic Serb minority in Croatia.\n\nThe party was founded in early 1991 by ethnic Serb politicians opposed to the radical and secessionist policies of Republic of Serbian Krajina. As the conflict in Croatia escalated, SNS quickly found itself in a precarious position. Its base was limited to the territories under Croatian government control, where ethnic Serbs were increasingly subjected to all kinds of abuse, often under tacit or open support by authorities. The SNS, on the other hand, never criticised the government of Franjo Tuđman. In return, the state-controlled media described the SNS as the only legitimate representative of Croatian Serbs and its leader Milan Đukić was appointed to many important government posts, including assistant minister of interiors, vice-speaker of Sabor and presidential advisor.\n\nIn the mid-1990s, the SNS gradually began to distance itself from Tuđman's government and became more radical in representing the interests of ethnic Serbs. This became evident after Operation Storm, during which the home of Milan Đukić in Donji Lapac was torched by Croatian military and police units. Following the Erdut Agreement that reintegrated eastern Slavonia into Croatia in 1997/1998, Tuđman found more suitable and more legitimate partners in ethnic Serb politicians from eastern Slavonia that would join the newly formed Independent Democratic Serb Party.\n\nThe rivalry between the SNS and SDSS gradually manifested itself on the former Krajina territories where those two parties fought for the votes of Serb refugees who returned to Croatia. Although the SNS had the upper hand at first and came into position to form the first Serb-dominated local government in Donji Lapac, SDSS proved not only as better organised, but also more acceptable for Croatian political mainstream. In the 2003 parliamentary elections, SNS failed to enter Croatian Parliament and lost all three Serb seats to the SDSS.\n\nWith the death of Milan Đukić, the party chose Milan Rodić to succeed as President in 2007.\n\nThe party established the Serb Solidarity coalition with several minor parties as an alternative to the politics of Independent Democratic Serb Party. In 2013, Zoran Kojić succeeded as the party president.\n"}
{"id": "1988266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988266", "title": "Walter de Stapledon", "text": "Walter de Stapledon\n\nWalter de Stapledon (or Stapeldon) (1 February 126114 October 1326) was Bishop of Exeter 1308–1326 and twice Lord High Treasurer of England, in 1320 and 1322. He founded Exeter College, Oxford and contributed liberally to the rebuilding of Exeter Cathedral. His tomb and monument, of great architectural importance, survives in Exeter Cathedral.\n\nWalter Stapledon was born either at Stapledon in the parish of Cookbury, North Devon or at\nAnnery in the parish of Monkleigh. He was the son of Sir Richard Stapledon, descended from a noble stock. The Stapledons originated at the estate of Stapledon, in the parish of Cookbury, near Holsworthy, Devon. His elder brother was Richard Stapledon (died 1326) of Annery, a judge, whose monument survives in Exeter Cathedral near that of his brother the bishop.\n\nStapledon became professor of canon law at Oxford and chaplain to Pope Clement V. On 13 March 1307 he was appointed Bishop of Exeter, and was consecrated on 13 October 1308. He went on embassies to France for both Kings Edward I and Edward II, and attended the councils and parliaments of his time. He was twice appointed Lord High Treasurer of England, in 1320 and 1322,\n\nStapeldon founded Exeter College, Oxford, which originated in Stapeldon Hall, established in 1314 by the bishop and his elder brother, Sir Richard Stapeldon, a judge of the king's bench, whose monument with effigy also exists in Exeter Cathedral near to that of his brother. The college was much frequented by sons of the Devonshire gentry for many centuries. The armorials of the college are those of Bishop Stapledon.\n\nStapledon was associated in the popular mind with the misdeeds of King Edward II. On fleeing London before the advancing troops of Queen Isabella, that king appointed Stapledon or \"Keeper\" of the City of London, the population of which was mostly in favour of the Queen. Foreseeing her forced entry into the City, Stapledon demanded from the Lord Mayor of London the keys to the gates, to lock her out. The following account is related by William de Dene in his History of the See of Rochester. A gathering of bishops took place at Lambeth Palace, south of the River Thames, aimed at arranging a mission of two of their number to convene peace talks between the warring king and queen in St Paul's Cathedral in the City. However all the bishops were wary of crossing the Thames into London, where the population was known to be hostile to them. Eventually The Bishop of London and Stapledon, Bishop of Exeter, appear to have volunteered and crossed the Thames to convene at the Blackfriars, just outside the City gates. Here they met with a group of the Kings Justices (possibly therefore including Sir Richard de Stapledon, the bishop's brother). When the Londoners heard of this they met in the Guildhall and plotted how to ambush, capture and kill the two bishops, and then loot the merchants, and sent out scouting parties to report on the route of their journey. The plot came to fruition when Stapledon was ambushed on his journey. He was accompanied by his elder brother Richard de Stapledon, a Justice of Assizes for the western circuit, who in trying to save him was dragged from his horse and murdered. This is said by Prince to have happened as he rode through the city gate of Cripplegate, when a cripple grasped one of the forelegs of Sir Richard's horse and by crossing it threw the horse and rider to the ground, whereupon Sir Richard was murdered by the mob. Sir Richard's elaborate monument with effigies survives in Exeter Cathedral, near to that of his brother the bishop . The bishop fled for safety into St Paul's Cathedral. However he found no safety there as a mob entered and dragged him out and proceeded to beat and wound him and dragged him to the Great Cross at Cheapside \"where those sons of the devil most barborously murdered him\" on 15 October 1326. His head was chopped off and his body was thrown onto a dunghill \"to be torn and devoured by dogs\". Later some of his supporters took away his body and re-buried it in the sand of the shoreline of the River Thames next to the bishop's palace, Exeter House, beyond Temple Bar on The Strand, which site was later occupied by Essex House, the townhouse of the Earl of Essex during the reign of Queen Elizabeth I. About six months later the Queen \"reflecting how dishonourable a thing it was to suffer the corps of so truly great and good prelate to lie thus vilely buried\" ordered his body to be disinterred and removed for burial in Exeter Cathedral, \"there to be honoured with most magnificent exequies\", which duly occurred on 28 March 1327.\n\nA lengthy epitaph in Latin verse was later composed by John Hooker (died 1601) and was inscribed on a heavy wooden tablet erected in 1568 over his tomb at the expense of Bishop William Alleigh. This was still in place at the time of Prince, who transcribed it. It was destroyed in 1805 by Bishop John Fisher, who erected in its place coronet-work in gilded stone. A shorter Latin eulogy inscribed on three white marble tablets survives attached to the north (rear) side of the monument.\n\nStapledon's monument is located in Exeter Cathedral in the choir on the north side of the high altar, and is the cathedral's most important 14th-century monument. It consists of a recumbent effigy within a gothic canopy all made of Beer stone. The colour scheme dates from an early 19th-century restoration since restored again (see below). The effigy is shown \"in pontificalibus\" and holds in his left hand a crozier and in his right hand a book. On the outside of the tomb at his feet is shown a heraldic escutcheon bearing the bishop's arms. On the ceiling of the canopy, invisible to the casual observer, but looking down onto the bishop's effigy is a contemporary painting of Christ displaying his Five Holy Wounds. In 1733 the monument was repaired at the cost of Exeter College, Oxford, his foundation, and was apparently re-painted with bright colours. In the summer of 1805 however at the direction of Bishop John Fisher (reg.1803–1807) the removal was effected of \"the gaudy colours with which the whole of the monument had been painted\". In the late 1950s the monument was restored and recoloured. In the 1980s the mediaeval painting on the ceiling of the canopy was restored.\n\n"}
{"id": "1988272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988272", "title": "Hellhound", "text": "Hellhound\n\nA hellhound is a supernatural dog in folklore. A wide variety of ominous or hellish supernatural dogs occur in mythologies around the world. Features that have been attributed to hellhounds include mangled black fur, glowing red eyes, super strength and speed, ghostly or phantom characteristics, and a foul odor. \nCertain European legends state that if someone stares into a hellhound's eyes three times or more, that person will surely die. In cultures that associate the afterlife with fire, hellhounds may have fire-based abilities and appearance. They are often assigned to guard the entrances to the world of the dead, such as graveyards and burial grounds, or undertake other duties related to the afterlife or the supernatural, such as hunting lost souls or guarding a supernatural treasure. In European legends, seeing a hellhound or hearing it howl may be an omen or even a cause of death. They are said to be the protectors of the supernatural, guarding the secrecy of supernatural creatures, or beings, from the world.\n\nSome supernatural dogs, such as the Welsh Cŵn Annwn, were regarded as benign, but encountering such hellbeasts was still considered a sign of imminent death.\n\nThe most famous hellhound is most likely Cerberus from Greek mythology. Hellhounds are also famous for appearing in Northern European mythology and folklore as a part of the Wild Hunt. These hounds are given several different names in local folklore, but they display typical hellhound characteristics. The myth is common across Great Britain, and many names are given to the apparitions: Moddey Dhoo of the Isle of Man, Gwyllgi of Wales. Other ghostly black dogs exist in legend. The earliest mention of these myths are in both Walter Map's \"De Nugis Curialium\" (1190) and the Welsh myth cycle of the Four Branches of the \"Mabinogi\" (c. tenth to thirteenth century).\n\nIn southern Mexico and Central America folklore, the cadejo is a big black dog that haunts travellers who walk late at night on rural roads. The term is also common in American blues music, such as with Robert Johnson's 1937 song, \"Hellhound on My Trail\".\n\nIn Greek mythology the hellhound Cerberus belonged to Hades, the Greek god of the underworld. Cerberus was said to be a massive, three-headed black dog that guarded the entrance to the underworld.\n\nDescribed as a very large dark black dog like creature that in some regions has only 3 toes. It is said to hunt the back mountain roads of Kentucky and West Virginia. It is likely this legend stems from earlier Scots Irish and Welsh folklore though some claim to see it still today.\n\nBarghest, Bargtjest, Bo-guest, Bargest or Barguest is the name often given in the north of England, especially in Yorkshire, to a legendary monstrous black dog with huge teeth and claws, though in other cases the name can refer to a ghost or household elf, especially in Northumberland and Durham (see Cauld Lad of Hylton). One is said to frequent a remote gorge named Troller's Gill. There is also a story of a Barghest entering the city of York occasionally, where, according to legend, it preys on lone travelers in the city's narrow Snickelways. Whitby is also associated with the spectre. A famous Barghest was said to live near Darlington which was said to take the form of a headless man (who would vanish in flames), a headless lady, a white cat, a dog, rabbit and black dog. Another was said to live in an \"uncannie-looking\" dale between Darlington and Houghton, near Throstlenest.\n\nThe derivation of the word \"barghest\" is disputed. \"Ghost\" in the north of England was once pronounced \"guest\", and the name is thought to be \"burh-ghest\": town-ghost. Others explain it as German \"Berg-geist\" (mountain spirit), or \"Bär-geist\" (bear-spirit), in allusion to its alleged appearance at times as a bear. Another mooted derivation is \"Bier-Geist\", the \"spirit of the funeral bier\".\n\nThe Bearer of Death is a term used in describing the Hellhound. Hellhounds have been said to be as black as coal and smell of burning brimstone. They tend to leave behind a burned area wherever they go. Their eyes are a deep, bright, and almost glowing red. They have razor sharp teeth, super strength, and speed, and are commonly associated with graveyards and the underworld. Hellhounds are called The Bearers of Death because they were supposedly created by ancient demons to serve as heralds of death. According to legend, seeing one leads to a person's death. Sometimes it is said to be once; other times it requires three sightings for the curse to take effect and kill the victim. These factors make the Hellhound a feared symbol and worthy of the name \"Bearer of Death\".\n\nBlack Shuck or Old Shuck is the name given to a ghostly black dog said to roam the Norfolk, Essex, and Suffolk coastline of England. For centuries, locals have told tales of a large black dog with malevolent flaming red eyes. According to reports, the beast varies in size and stature from that of a large dog to the size of a horse. Sometimes Black Shuck has appeared headless, and at other times he appears to float on a carpet of mist. According to folklore, the spectre often haunts graveyards, sideroads, crossroads and dark forests.\n\nThere are legends of Black Shuck roaming the Anglian countryside since before Vikings. His name may derive from the Old English word \"scucca\" meaning \"demon\", or possibly from the local dialect word \"shucky\" meaning \"shaggy\" or \"hairy\". The legend may have been part of the inspiration for the Sherlock Holmes novel \"The Hound of the Baskervilles\".\n\nIt is said that his appearance bodes ill to the beholder, although not always. More often than not, stories tell of Black Shuck terrifying his victims, but leaving them alone to continue living normal lives; in some cases it has supposedly happened before close relatives to the observer die or become ill. In other tales the dog is considered relatively benign, and said to accompany women on their way home in the role of protector rather than a portent of ill omen.\n\nOne of the most notable reports of Black Shuck is of his appearance at the churches of Bungay and Blythburgh in Suffolk. On 4 August 1577, at Blythburgh, Black Shuck is said to have burst in through the church doors. He ran up the nave, past a large congregation, killing a man and boy and causing the church tower to collapse through the roof. As the dog departed, he left scorch marks on the north door that remain to this day. Two men were touched by the beast and fell down dead.\n\nThe encounter on the same day at Bungay was described in \"A Strange and Terrible Wonder\" by the Reverend Abraham Fleming in 1577:\n\nOther accounts attribute the event to lightning or the Devil. The scorch marks on the door are referred to by the locals as \"the devil's fingerprints\".\n\nIn Catalan myth, Dip is an evil, black, hairy dog, an emissary of the Devil, who sucks people's blood. Like other figures associated with demons in Catalan myth, he is lame in one leg. Dip is pictured on the escutcheon of Pratdip.\n\nIn Welsh mythology and folklore, Cŵn Annwn (; \"hounds of Annwn\") were the spectral hounds of Annwn, the otherworld of Welsh myth. They were associated with a form of the Wild Hunt, presided over by Gwynn ap Nudd (rather than Arawn, king of Annwn in the First Branch of the Mabinogi). Christians came to dub these mythical creatures as \"The Hounds of Hell\" or \"Dogs of Hell\" and theorised they were therefore owned by Satan. However, the Annwn of medieval Welsh tradition is an otherworldly paradise and not a hell or abode of dead souls.\n\nIn Wales, they were associated with migrating geese, supposedly because their honking in the night is reminiscent of barking dogs. They are supposed to hunt on specific nights (the eves of St. John, St. Martin, Saint Michael the Archangel, All Saints, Christmas, New Year, Saint Agnes, Saint David, and Good Friday), or just in the autumn and winter. Some say Arawn only hunts from Christmas to Twelfth Night. The Cŵn Annwn also came to be regarded as the escorts of souls on their journey to the Otherworld.\nThe hounds are sometimes accompanied by a fearsome hag called Mallt-y-Nos, \"Matilda of the Night\". An alternative name in Welsh folklore is Cŵn Mamau (\"Hounds of the Mothers\").\n\nIn other traditions similar spectral hounds are found, e.g., Gabriel Hounds (England), Ratchets (England), Yell Hounds (Isle of Man), related to Herne the Hunter's hounds, which form part of the Wild Hunt.\n\nHunting grounds for the Cŵn Annwn are said to include the mountain of Cadair Idris, where it is believed \"the howling of these huge dogs foretold death to anyone who heard them\".\n\nAccording to Welsh folklore, their growling is loudest when they are at a distance, and as they draw nearer, it grows softer and softer. Their coming is generally seen as a death portent.\n\nThe Moddey Dhoo, also referred to as Mauthe Dhoog, is known to inhabit only one locale; Peel Castle on the Isle of Man. The most famous interaction occurred between the dog and a guard. The guard, emboldened by alcohol, determined that he would find and deal with this haunter. So off he went alone down the corridors of the castle. Shortly thereafter, his screams were heard. When he was found, he mentioned only the dog. Several days later he died.\n\nThe gwyllgi (; compound noun of either gwyllt \"wild\" or gwyll \"twilight\" + ci \"dog\") is a mythical dog from Wales that appears as a frightful apparition of a mastiff with baleful breath and blazing red eyes.\n\nIt is referred to as \"The Dog of Darkness\" or \"The Black Hound of Destiny\", the apparition's favourite haunt being lonely roads at night.\n\nThe yeth hound, also called the yell hound is a Black dog found in Devon folklore. According to Brewer's Dictionary of Phrase and Fable, the yeth hound is a headless dog, said to be the spirit of an unbaptised child, which rambles through the woods at night making wailing noises. The yeth hound is also mentioned in The Denham Tracts.\n\nThe Church Grim, Kirk Grim, Kyrkogrim (Swedish) or Kirkonväki (Finnish) is a figure from English and Scandinavian folklore. They are said to be the attendant spirits of churches, overseeing the welfare of their particular church. English Church Grims are said to enjoy loudly ringing the bells. They may appear as black dogs or as small, misshapen, dark-skinned people.\n\nThe Swedish Kyrkogrim are said to be the spirits of animals sacrificed by early Christians at the building of a new church. In parts of Europe, including Britain and Scandinavia, a completely black dog would be buried alive on the north side of the grounds of a newly built church, creating a guardian spirit, the church grim, to protect the church from the devil.\n\nThe Gytrash , a legendary black dog known in northern England, was said to haunt lonely roads awaiting travellers. Appearing in the shape of horses, mules, or dogs, the Gytrash haunt solitary ways and lead people astray. They are usually feared, but they can also be benevolent, guiding lost travelers to the right road.\n\nIn some parts of Lincolnshire and Yorkshire the gytrash was known as the 'Shagfoal' and took the form of a spectral mule or donkey with eyes that glowed like burning coals. In this form the beast was believed to be purely malevolent.\n\nThe Gytrash's emergence as Rochester's innocuous dog Pilot has been interpreted as a subtle mockery of the mysteriousness and romanticism that surrounds his character and clouds Jane's perception. Brontë's reference in 1847 is probably the earliest reference to the beast and forms the basis for subsequent citations.\n\nThe Black Dog of Bouley (\"Le Chien de Bouley\" or, in Jèrriais, \"Le Tchan du Bouôle\") is a monstrous hound that supposedly haunts the area around Bouley Bay in Jersey, Channel Islands. It is huge, black, with eyes the size of saucers and (in some versions of the legend) a chain which it drags behind it, the sound of which is often the first warning victims have of its presence. After ambushing its victim it circles them at great speed, terrifying them, although never doing physical harm. Its appearance is said to herald a storm. It has been theorised that the legend of the Black Dog was promoted – or even invented – by smugglers, perhaps with the aid of a costume, in order to keep people away from their activities in the Bay. Another theory has it that \"Le Tchan\" (\"The Dog\") is an aural corruption of \"Le Chouan\", a Jèrriais term for a French Royalist émigré (many of which took refuge in the Island during the French Revolution), and the legend took off from there.\n\nA similarly described apparition has been accredited to the Salt Lake Valley, of Utah State. It is said to resemble the dog of ancient Egyptian hieroglyphics, with the pointed ears and thin bodies, but consumed by age old demonic rot. Its chain portends of its arrival and after circling its prey for a short amount of time it chooses whether or not that soul is worth \"tagging\" for demonic possession. Those \"tagged\" are said to suffer from paranormally bad luck when attempting righteous endeavors and great success at evil, tempting them to commit foul deeds throughout life leaving their soul for the Devil, once they die.\n\nHellhounds are a common monstrous creature in fantasy fiction and horror fiction, though they sometimes appear in other genres such as detective novels, or other uses.\n\n\n\nIn the \"Dungeons & Dragons\" fantasy roleplaying game, the hell hound is a hyena-like creature which can breathe fire and hunts in packs. It is classified as an outsider from the Nine Hells.\n\nThe hell hound was introduced to the game in its first supplement, \"Greyhawk\" (1975). The hell hound appeared in the \"D&D Basic Set\" (1977), the \"D&D Expert Set\" (1981, 1983). and the \"Dungeons & Dragons Rules Cyclopedia\" (1991). The hell hound appears in the first edition \"Monster Manual\". The \"Monster Manual\" was reviewed by Don Turnbull in the British magazine \"White Dwarf\" #8 (August/September 1978). As part of his review, Turnbull comments on several monsters appearing in the book, noting that the breath weapon of the \"much-feared\" hell hound has been altered from its previous appearance. The hell hound appeared in second edition in the \"Monstrous Compendium Volume Two\" (1989), and reprinted in the \"Monstrous Manual\" (1993). The hell hound appeared in the third edition \"Monster Manual\" (2000), and in the 3.5 revised \"Monster Manual\" (2003) with the Nessian warhound. The hell hound appears in the fourth edition \"Monster Manual\" for this edition, under the Hound entry.\n\nA hell hound resembles a mangy, skinny, somewhat demonic hyena-like creature with red eyes and draconic ears. It has the ability to breathe fire. However, the Fourth Edition depicts them as nearly skeletal canines wreathed in flame. The hell hound enjoys causing pain and suffering and it hunts accordingly. A favorite pack tactic is to silently surround prey, and then cause two hell hounds to close in and make the victim back into another hell hound's fiery breath. They will attack with their claws and teeth if they have to. If the prey manages to escape, the hell hounds will pursue it relentlessly. Hell hounds are also quick and agile. Another type of hell hound is the Nessian warhound. Nessian warhounds are coal black mastiffs the size of draft horses, and are often fitted with shirts of infernal chainmail. Hell hounds cannot speak, but understand Infernal.\n\nThe hell hound was ranked ninth among the ten best low-level monsters by the authors of \"Dungeons & Dragons For Dummies\". The authors described them as the \"first serious representative of a class of monsters your players will be fighting against for their whole careers: evil outsiders,\" and that they are interesting because they \"introduce players to monsters with an area-effect attack (their fiery breath).\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1988274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988274", "title": "Laing Art Gallery", "text": "Laing Art Gallery\n\nThe Laing Art Gallery in Newcastle upon Tyne, England, is located on New Bridge Street. The gallery was designed in the Baroque style with Art Nouveau elements by architects Cackett and Burns Dick and is now a Grade II listed building. It was opened in 1904 and is now managed by Tyne & Wear Archives & Museums and sponsored by the Department for Culture, Media and Sport. In front of the gallery is the Blue Carpet. The building is Grade II listed.\n\nThe gallery collection contains paintings, watercolours and decorative historical objects, including Newcastle silver. In the early 1880s, Newcastle was a major glass producer in the world and enamelled glasses by William Beilby are on view along with ceramics (including Maling pottery), and diverse contemporary works by emerging UK artists. It has a programme of regularly rotating exhibitions and has free entry.\n\nThe gallery's collection of seminal paintings includes John Martin's dramatic \"The Destruction of Sodom and Gomorrah\", as well as important works by Sir Joshua Reynolds, Edward Burne-Jones (\"Laus Veneris\"), William Holman Hunt (\"Isabella and the Pot of Basil\"), and Ben Nicholson Local paintings include pictures by Ralph Hedley. There is also an extensive collection of 18th- and 19th-century watercolours and drawings, including work by J. M. W. Turner and John Sell Cotman\n\n"}
{"id": "1988278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988278", "title": "Proprietary company", "text": "Proprietary company\n\nA proprietary company is a form of privately held company in Australia and South Africa that is either limited or unlimited. However, unlike a public company there are, depending on jurisdiction, restrictions on what it can and cannot do.\n\nIn Australia, a proprietary company is defined under section 45A(1) of the \"Corporations Act 2001\" (Cth).\n\nThe Act puts certain restrictions on proprietary companies such as not permitting them to have more than 50 members (shareholders). Another important restriction relates to fundraising. A proprietary company must not engage in fundraising that would require a disclosure document such as a prospectus, an offer information statement, or a profile statement to be issued (sec.113(3)). The Act states in which circumstances a company must issue a prospectus when attempting to raise funds. This means that a proprietary company must not offer its shares to the public.\n\nSection 45A of the Act also distinguishes proprietary companies as either \"large proprietary\" or \"small proprietary\". The differences here relate to issues such as operating revenue, consolidated gross assets, and the number of employed persons.\n\nLarge proprietary companies are required to appoint an auditor and lodge appropriate financial statements with the Australian Securities and Investments Commission (ASIC).\n\nUnder Australian law, a \"proprietary limited company\" (abbreviated as 'Pty Ltd') is a business structure that has at least one shareholder and up to 50, where the liability of shareholders is limited to the value of shares. Its counterparts include the public limited company (Ltd) and the Unlimited Proprietary company (Pty) with a share capital.\n\nUnder the Australian Corporations Act 2001 (Cth), a proprietary company must be either –\n\nThe proprietary limited or unlimited company must have at least one shareholder, no more than 50 non-employee shareholders, and at least one director who must live in Australia. A secretary can be appointed (sec.204A), that must be at least 18 years of age. One person may simultaneously hold the positions of company director and secretary.\n\nProprietary limited companies are also classified as \"large\" or \"small\". A proprietary company is classified as small only if it meets at least two of the following criteria:\n\n\nMost large proprietary companies have to lodge audited accounts. Small proprietary companies only have to prepare audited financial statements if ordered to do so by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission (ASIC) or members holding five percent of voting shares and, in some cases, if controlled by a foreign company.\n\nProprietary companies have the word \"Proprietary\" in their name, thus Relays Proprietary Limited, abbreviated to Relays Pty Ltd or Relays P/L.\n\n\nTo help identify companies more uniquely and concisely, many countries have a company number which does not change if the company changes its name.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1988280", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988280", "title": "Bernard of Italy", "text": "Bernard of Italy\n\nBernard (797 – 17 April 818 ) was the King of the Lombards from 810 to 818. He plotted against his uncle, Emperor Louis the Pious, when the latter's \"Ordinatio Imperii\" made Bernard a vassal of his cousin Lothair. When his plot was discovered, Louis had him blinded, a procedure which killed him.\n\nBernard was born in 797, the illegitimate son of King Pepin of Italy, himself the son of the Emperor Charlemagne. In 810, Pepin died from an illness contracted at the siege of Venice. Despite being illegitimate, his grandfather allowed Bernard to inherit Italy. Bernard married a woman named Cunigunde, but the year of their marriage, and her origins, are obscure. Some sources refer to her as \"of Laon\". They had one son, Pepin, Count of Vermandois, who was born in 817.\n\nIn 817, Louis the Pious drew the \"Ordinatio Imperii\", detailing the future of the Frankish Empire. Under this, the bulk of the Frankish territory went to Louis' eldest son, Lothair; Bernard received no further territory, and although his Kingship of Italy was confirmed, he would be a vassal of Lothair, as he had been to Louis and to Charles. Certain of his counselors, including Count Eggideo, and his chamberlain Reginhard, persuaded Bernard that arrangement threatened his position. Other names were Reginhar, the last being the grandson of a Thuringian rebel against Charlemagne, and Hardrad. Anshelm, Bishop of Milan and Theodulf, Bishop of Orléans, were also accused of being involved: there is no evidence either to support or contradict this in the case of Theodulf, whilst the case for Anshelm is murkier.\n\nPrior to this, Bernard's relationship with his uncle appears to have been cooperative. Bernard's main complaint was the notion of his being a vassal of Lothair. In practical terms, his actual position had not been altered at all by the terms of the decree, and he could safely have continued to rule under such a system. Nonetheless, \"partly true\" reports came to Louis the Pious that his nephew was planning to set up an 'unlawful' – i.e. independent – regime in Italy.\n\nLouis the Pious reacted swiftly to the plot, marching south to Chalon. Bernard and his associates were taken by surprise; Bernard travelled to Chalon in an attempt to negotiate terms, but he and the ringleaders were forced to surrender to Louis, who had them taken to Aix-la-Chapelle where they were tried and condemned to death. Louis 'mercifully' commuted their sentences to blinding, which would neutralize Bernard as a threat without actually killing him; however, the process of blinding (carried out by means of pressing a red-hot stiletto to the eyeballs) proved so traumatic that Bernard died in agony two days after the procedure was carried out. At the same time, Louis also had his half-brothers Drogo, Hugh and Theoderic tonsured and confined to monasteries, to prevent other Carolingian offshoots challenging the main line. He also treated those guilty or suspected of conspiring with Bernard harshly: Theodulf of Orleans was imprisoned, and died soon afterwards; the lay conspirators were blinded, the clerics deposed and imprisoned; all lost lands and honours.\n\nA text called \"The Vision of the Poor woman of Laon\" criticizes Louis for Bernard's death.\n\nHis Kingdom of Italy was reabsorbed into the Frankish empire, and soon after bestowed upon Louis' eldest son Lothair. In 822, Louis made a display of public penance at Attigny, where he confessed before all the court to having sinfully slain his nephew; he also welcomed his half-brothers back into his favour. These actions possibly stemmed from guilt over his part in Bernard's death. It has been argued by some historians that his behaviour left him open to clerical domination, and reduced his prestige and respect amongst the Frankish nobility. Others, however, point out that Bernard's plot had been a serious threat to the stability of the kingdom, and the reaction no less a threat; Louis' display of penance, then, \"was a well-judged gesture to restore harmony and re-establish his authority.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1988296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988296", "title": "Rakahanga", "text": "Rakahanga\n\nRakahanga is part of the Cook Islands, situated in the central-southern Pacific Ocean. The unspoilt atoll is from the Cook Islands' capital, Rarotonga, and lies south of the equator. Its nearest neighbour is Manihiki which is just away. Rakahanga's area is . Its highest point is approximately 5 metres above sea level. The population was 83 in the 2016 Census of Population & Dwellings. Since 2014 Rakahanga's power has been 100% solar generated. The Rakahanga-Manihiki language differs from Cook Islands Maori.\n\nThere are four main islands and seven motus or islets in the Rakahanga lagoon. The northern island is divided into three: Tetukono in the north and northeast, Tetaha Kiraro in the west, and Paerangi in the southwest; while the southern island is Rakahanga. The motus are: on the east, Te Motu o Umurua, Akaro, Motu Ngangie, Huananui, Motu Mahuta and Motu Okakara; while on the southwest side the islet of Te Kainga guards the widest passage into the lagoon. The north-east coast has sandy beaches. The west coast is rubble and beach rock (a conglomerate of coral and shell) over old reef rock. The atoll is densely vegetated with coconut palms.\n\nRakahanga is just over 4 square kilometres in size. Its highest point is about 5 metres (17 feet) and like the other Northern Group atolls, Rakahanga is in danger from rising sea levels. Its large lagoon is shallow with poor sea water circulation, which is unfavourable for coral growth. The natural entrances to the lagoon are narrow and shallow, passable only by canoes and small boats with skilled captains. A deeper channel was created in about 2015 under a Harbour Improvement program.\n\nRakahanga's settlement is on the northwest side of the southern islet and consists of five adjoining villages (which might represent the lineages living in the same village:)\n\n\nRakahanga has a uniform temperature pattern with daily variations ranging from a minimum of 26C/ 79F to a maximum about 31C/88 F. It is generally dry between May and October and hot and humid between November and April . The latter period is the cyclone (hurricane) season, although such events are relatively rare. It is dryer in La Niña cycles, when water shortages can be acute.\n\nRakahanga was first inhabited about 1350 AD. According to oral histories, the original population descended from just two people. Toa was a defeated warrior banished from Rarotonga, and his wife Tapairu was either the sister or the daughter of a Rarotongan chief. She may have been the one with the navigational skills to locate the tiny atoll, which some accounts claim was discovered by her brother Huku. The couple settled on the motu of Te Kainga, near the south west entrance to the lagoon.\n\nGenealogy histories show Toa and Tapairu had four daughters. Toa married each of these daughters in an attempt to produce a male child. Finally, a union with a grand-daughter produced a son, and the youngest daughter produced another boy. Parent-child marriages appear to have been banned after that. Rakahanga was isolated from wars and infectious diseases, and the population grew rapidly. By the sixth generation, the community had split into two tribes under separate arikis (chiefs) and a \"tuha whenua\" (Land Distributor) was appointed to arbitrate disputes. By the ninth generation there were four tribal groups, still based around two ariki.\n\nDespite dividing into tribes, there are no records of wars. Te Kainga remained the only site of habitation in Rakahanga. Pearl shell was plentiful there, used in tools such as saws, chisels and fishhooks. The rest of the atoll was reserved for food production, primarily based on the coconut palm, pandanus and puraka, a type of taro.\n\nThe population eventually outstripped the food supply. This led to the practice of moving between Rakahanga and the larger but less fertile atoll of Manihiki, which was previously uninhabited. Every few years the entire community would make the dangerous inter-atoll crossing, allowing the vacated atoll to restore. When on Manihiki, the tribal groupings lived on separate motus under their ariki in villages called Tauhuna and Tukoa.\n\nIt is believed that Ferdinand Magellan encountered Rakahanga in 1521, but this cannot be substantiated by historians who have researched the island's history. One of the last great Spanish voyages of exploration, under the command of Pedro Fernandes de Queirós, came upon the island on 2 March 1606. He noted in a record of the voyage: \"The land is divided among many owners, and is planted with certain roots, which must form their bread. All the rest is a large and thick palm grove which is the chief sustenance of the natives. Some 500 inhabitants were seen assembled on the beach\". A Franciscan friar, Fray Martin de Munilla, was so struck with admiration that he called it the island of beautiful people (\"gente hermosa\"). De Quiros described the inhabitants as \"the most beautiful white and elegant people that were met during the voyage\".\n\nRussian oceanic explorer Fabian Gottlieb von Bellingshausen visited Rakahanga on 8 August 1820, on ships \"Vostok\" and \"Mirni\". He took its coordinates and charted its position with accuracy; he named this atoll \"Grand Duke Alexander Island\", after Grand Duke Alexander Nikolaievich who would later become tsar Alexander II. According to Bellingshausen: \"The inhabitants (of Rakahanga) came out in canoes and challenged us to fight by throwing stones and spears at the ship.\"\n\n\"The density of its cocoanut [sic] groves has excited the astonishment of all mariners who have visited it,\" according to a report written in 1874.\n\nIn 1849 two missionaries came to Manihiki, and then on to Rakahanga. Tairi was from Rarotonga, and Apolo was from Aitutaki, and they were sent by the London Missionary Society which sought to spread the Scriptures using the vernacular. Within a few years most of the population had been baptised and given new names. In 1855, a visiting Rarotongan missionary, Maretu, was concerned at the loss of life on the ocean voyages between the atolls, and decided part of the population should live permanently on Rakahanga and the remainder stay on Manihiki. Maretu wrote that the people \"all raised their hands in agreement. That's how it was agreed that the two islands would live separately. The people went home in great joy\". Rakahanga’s population then became about 500. Maretu also asked that the settlement be moved from Te Kainga to its present location so it could be set out \"in an orderly pattern\".\n\nLondon Missionary Society practice was to set up schools to teach reading and writing based on the Bible. The schools established on Rakahanga and Manihiki taught the alphabet that missionaries had created for the Rarotongan language, which has two fewer consonant sounds than Rakahangan/Manihikian.\n\nThe missionaries quickly came to control almost all aspects of island life, although the ariki were still nominally chiefs. Frederick Moss visited Manihiki in about 1886 and observed, \"The king, be it said, has no direct power. That has fallen into the hands of the native missionaries whose holy office, combined with greater education and experience, makes him the real ruler of the people.\" Heads of households elected representatives called Turimen, who \"decide the law, sit as judges and act as policemen\", but according to Moss, \"The native missionary pulls the wires.\" Games and dances were \"rigidly repressed by missionary law,\" and sinners were punished with fines and by being put in stocks for days at a time. The missionaries had to counter the influence of European traders, who sold alcohol and tobacco along with general merchandise in return for pearl shell, copra and the fine \"rito\" mats for which Rakahanga/Manihiki was already famous.\n\nCommander Clarke of declared Rakahanga and Manihiki British protectorates on 9 August 1889, almost a year after the islands in the Southern Group. The British appointed as the Cooks Islands chief administrator a New Zealand MP, Frederick Moss, However, the 'parliament' he formed only had representatives from the Southern Group. Being under the protection of the British appears to have meant little in practice for Rakahanga.\n\nThe London Missionary Society's control of Rakahanga ended when both the Northern and Southern Groups were included within New Zealand's boundaries in 1901 with the support of the ariki provided they could approve which NZ laws would apply. Island Councils were established on major islands, including Rakahanga, with Resident Agents who reported to the Resident Commissioner in Rarotonga. The Rakahanga Resident Agent in 1903 was a teacher at the missionary school. After visiting the atoll in 1904, the Resident Commissioner reported, \"On Rakahanga there is evidence of very bad feeling, and many land disputes.\" He suggested this was due to over-officiousness on the part of the Rakahanga Island Council.\n\nThe New Zealand Government slowly improved the infrastructure, for example installing a large concrete water tank in 1912 and a Courthouse in 1917. Medical officers called in every six months or so. A government school was not established until 1951, after the islanders had built a teacher's house. The school taught from kindergarten to Year 10, following a New Zealand curriculum for what were termed Maori schools. English was compulsory, although the teachers were not necessarily fluent speakers.\n\nRakahanga was established as a single electorate when the Cook Islands became self-governing in 1965. Pupuke Robati was the first elected representative. One ariki initially represented both Rakahanga and Manihiki in the House of Ariki because it was claimed that there had been no ariki on Rakahanga since 1901. Robati disputed this, saying there were two ariki families. Robati became Prime Minister briefly in 1987. His daughter Tina Pupuke Browne, leader of the Cook Islands Democratic Party, gained the seat following a legal challenge after the 2018 elections.\n\nRakahanga's political candidates have often resided outside Rakahanga when elected, including Pupuke Robati. However, voters can only be registered if they have lived in the electorate for at least 3 months before an election. This condition led to an electoral challenge to the Rakahanga election result in 2010.\n\nWith EU and New Zealand funding, 100% solar generated power was made available to all residents in 2014, and new roofing, guttering and water tanks have been installed on all occupied houses. Mobile telecommunications were provided in 2007 and upgraded in 2013.\n\nThe island was claimed under the Guano Islands Act for the United States, a claim which was only ceded in a treaty between the U.S. and the Cook Islands in 1980.\n\nThe atoll is a green sea turtle nesting site. Coconut crabs are protected and their harvesting is constrained to certain seasons. The outer reef is a good fishing spot. Each January, a tuna fishing contest takes place and boats return with 200 or more fish a day. Humpback whales have been confirmed on rare occasions.\n\nColonies of white terns nest along the lagoon. Frigate birds and brown boobies are other common sea birds. Feral cats and rats were introduced by Europeans. Pigs and poultry are farmed and also exist in feral populations. Dogs are prohibited on the atoll.\n\nIndigenous ngangie and toa trees are found all over on the islets. Coconut palm trees are predominate, however, and their fruit are rarely collected nowadays. Large breadfruit trees line village paths and pandanus trees thrive. Since the 1997 cyclone, an invasive burr weed (probably of the species soliva sessilis) has become increasingly prevalent.\n\nPolynesian believed gods had a physical manifestation. No gods appear to have been brought by Toa and Tapairu when they settled on Rakahanga, and it took seven generations (about 150 years) before some travellers returned with two gods. Later, a piece of red wood washed up which was believed to be a third god. Paved areas called maraes were constructed outside the villages for religious gatherings. Minor prohibitions were practiced to avoid displeasing the gods, such as dietary restrictions related to protecting species of significance to a tribal group.\n\nIn 1849 a whaling ship rescued some Rakahangan/Manihikian castaways and deposited them on the distant island of Aitutaki. The London Missionary Society took the opportunity of returning them, accompanied by two missionaries. Six years later, according to the missionary Maretu: \"At that time some people still worshipped the frigate bird and a species of land crab. They now realised they were useless. They discarded them and came to [Bible study] class wishing to be accepted later as church members so they would be joined to the vine of life.\"\n\nA large church was built from coral rock and lime made from soft coral, materials also introduced into house building. The relocated village was arranged around straight paths of crushed-coral. The missionaries introduced papaya and breadfruit trees, as well as new technologies, including cotton materials and European style boat building techniques. They built the first gaol and policed not only sexual practices but \"heathen customs\" such as the wearing of earrings.\n\nThe London Missionary Society name was dropped around 1960 and the Cook Islands Christian Church became an autonomous entity with an act of the Cook Islands Parliament in 1968. The large white church with its intricate wood carving remains the dominant building on the atoll, and the majority of the population attend at least one service per week.\n\nThe Roman Catholic religion, although dominant in nearby Tahiti, was not practiced on Rakahanga until 1926. The first priest, Father Joachim Kerdral, oversaw the building of a church and a small priest's house on leased land. A Catholic school was also established, taught by the priest or by ex students. By 1935 a third of the population had converted to Catholicism. Father Joachim left in 1937 and was not replaced permanently until 1955, and then only for four years. The congregation largely returned to the London Missionary Society Church, or became Seventh Day Adventists. Rakahanga's last permanent priest was Father Placido Rovers, who arrived in 1971 and was buried on the island in 1980. The church was rebuilt twice after damage from high seas during cyclones, and is now in ruins.\n\nIn 2018, about a quarter of the population were Seventh Day Adventists. Prominent members include Toka Hagai who was twice elected to Parliament.\n\nBetween 800 and 1200 people lived on Rakahanga and Manihiki when the missionaries arrived in 1849. Rakahanga had about 400 residents during the missionary period until 1901. A 1916 decrease in population was caused by migration to Rarotonga in search of employment. Since the last half of the 20th century there has been a continued decline through migration to Rarotonga, New Zealand and to a lesser extent, Australia.\n\nThe number of residents varies as families may migrate temporarily. A survey in 2011 counted 79 residents on the island whereas one in 2012 counted 102. In 2018 there were 61 people on the electoral roll and 83 people in the 2016 Census (down from 127 in the 2008 Census). The government school, which opened in 1951 for all students up to Year 10, has an enrolment of less than 20.\n\nChants, stories, drumming and dance were central to Rakahangan/Manihikian culture. An early 20th century visitor claimed that dancing was the peoples' \"chief reason for existing,\" and described them as the most accomplished singers and dancers \"in the whole South Pacific\".\n\nInlay pearl shell inlays decorated traditional double canoes. The Cook Islands Christian Church has many examples of this fine inlay work that was used to decorate furniture.\n\nThe atoll is populated by two Whakaheo tribes, the Matakeinanga and Tukuwhare. Each one has 7 subtribes, divided in 7 groups:\nUntil recently, the economy of Rakahanga was dominated by the coconut palm. Prior to European economic involvement, coconut palms were valuable property, to be passed down to families along with land. Every part of the palm had a role, as a food, building material, clothing material, fuel, or for making baskets and netting.\n\nVisiting trading ships brought the first need for tradeable goods. Pearl shell and copra (dried coconut meat, a source of coconut oil) could be exchanged for manufactured goods which were largely sourced from New Zealand.   By the 1890s European traders were living on Rakahanga, buying copra and selling general merchandise. By 1904 the Island Council had ownership interests in at least one trading store. In the 1930s the major store belonged to the New Zealand trading firm of A. B. Donald, which also owned schooners to transport the copra. This store operated until the 1970s. In the second half of the twentieth century the international copra market declined and the price dropped to almost a quarter, making the Rakahangan industry unviable. In 2001 90% of those employed were in the public sector.\n\nDried fish are a potential export. Rito hats, mats and baskets, traditionally woven by women from the ribs of coconut leaves, remain in demand in Rarotongan markets because of their high quality. These are made using the same techniques which in 1874 were described as producing \"highly prized\" mats \"in the manufacture of which they are more skilful than any other people of the Pacific\". \nIn the 1950s and again in the 1990s attempts were made to establish a pearl industry . However, the lagoon is shallow with poor water flow. Some Rakahangans benefit from the black pearl industry in Manihiki through part-ownership or employment.\n\nThere is no tourist accommodation on Rakahanga although homestays can be arranged. Access to the atoll remains very difficult. AirRaro offers fortnightly (usually) flights between Rarotonga to Manihiki. Both the Manihiki and Rakahanga communities operate outboard motor boats between the atolls, a trip which takes up to 3 hours depending on conditions. The alternative is a 3-6 day voyage on one of the trading ships which run on sparse schedules from Rarotonga or sometimes Tahiti. An airstrip built on Rakahanga's western coast in 1982 was damaged beyond repair by waves in the next cyclone\n\nJulian Dashwood, writing under the name Julian Hillas, lived on Rakahanga in the mid1930s and was briefly married to an islander, Tupou. At least one of his articles about Rakahanga was published. The novel he wrote while on the atoll, White Natives, was never published, although an account of his stay is in his autobiography.\n\nRakahanga gained international attention when a raft on a Kon-Tiki like expedition led by Frenchman Eric de Bisschop smashed on the reef in 1958. de Bisschop was killed and buried on the atoll. A few weeks later a French naval group retrieved the body which was reburied with honours in Tahiti.\n\nPupuke Rabati was prime minister of the Cook Islands from 1987 to 1989.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1988299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988299", "title": "Shikao Suga", "text": "Shikao Suga\n\nSuga went to Kosei Gakuen Male High School in Suginami, Tokyo. After graduating from Tokyo Keizai University in 1989, he worked as a \"salaryman\" for four years in the advertisement industry.\n\nBy 1993, at 27, he had set his mind on becoming a musician. He already had a number of lyrics written. He made his first indie single, \"0101\", which he released using his birth name in kanji.\n\nAfter 2 years struggling to have a major recording label, by age 30, he was signed up by Office Augusta. His debut single (\"Hit Chart o Kakenukero\") opened up a world of possibilities. His EP album \"Clover\", released in 1997, shows his J-Pop music has jazz, funk and soul influence. His work in Office Augusta began displaying his name as スガシカオ, in katakana, which continues today.\n\n\"\"Yozora no Mukō\"\", the song he wrote the lyrics to, and was sung by SMAP, has appeared in several Japanese music textbooks. Both SMAP's \"\"Yozora no Mukō\"\" (1998) and KAT-TUN's \"\"Real Face\"\" (2006) either debuted at or reached quickly the top spot in the Oricon charts, and sold over 1 million units each. \nSeveral of his songs have been used in anime and live action dramas and movies adapted from manga.\nHoney and Clover included songs from his album \"Clover\", like \"\"Hachigatsu no Serenade\"\", \"\"Tsuki to Knife\"\" and \"\"Yubikiri\"\". \nThe song \"\"Manatsu no Yoru no Yume\"\" appeared in the first Death Note live action movie as an insert song. \nHis song \"\"Yūdachi\"\" was used as the closing theme for the movie Boogiepop and Others, and as the opening theme for the 2000 anime series Boogiepop Phantom. \"\"Hajimari no Hi\"\" was used as the first opening theme to Letter Bee, and after a year and three months, he released \"\"Yakusoku\"\", which would be the opening for the \"Letter Bee\" sequel, . In 2019's live action adaptation of the manga \"Yotsuba ginkō Harashima Hiromi ga mono mōsu!~ Kono hito (on'na) ni kakero ~\", his song \"\"Tōi yoake\"\" would be the first song he's written as a theme song for a TV Tokyo dorama.\n\nHe also did the theme songs to the XXXHOLiC anime series from CLAMP, including its movie xxxHOLiC: Manatsu no Yoru no Yume (\"Sanagi ~theme from xxxHOLiC the movie~\"), its first TV series season (\"Jūkyū-sai\"), and from \"XXXHOLiC Kei\", its second season (\"Nobody Knows\"). \"\"Sofa\"\" was the song used in the OVA \"xxxHOLiC: Shunmuki\" in February 17, 2009. In February 2013, XXXHOLiC live action drama started on WOWOW, and Suga's \"\"Aitai\"\" was used as its opening theme song. In 2015, CLAMP made the drawings for the music video for \"\"あなたひとりだけ 幸せになることは 許されないのよ\"\" (Anata hitori dake shiawase ni naru koto wa yurusarenai no you, also known as \"Anayuru\"), including in it images of characters from \"XXXHOLiC\", to celebrate his debut anniversary. Suga's 2013 album \"Aitai\" cover and artist photos were made by Photographer and Film Director Mika Ninagawa\n\nHis songs have also been included in non-manga movies, like Dark Water (\"\"Aozora\"\") and Sweet Little Lies (\"\"Ame agari no asa ni\"\").\n\nOther programs, like NTV's news program News Zero (\"\"Shunkashuutou\"\", October 6, 2006 to December 27, 2007) have also used Sugs's songs.\n\nThey have appeared as well in countless of TV ads, like those of insurance agency Sony Sompo, and some car brands and housing businesses. For Chica Umino's seinen manga series, March Comes in Like a Lion, his song \"\"Kizashi\"\" was used in the commercial ad for the manga, and has appeared in it, as requested by Umino herself.\n\nHis name and songs have also been mentioned in other anime, series and books.\nIn Gintama, his name has been mentioned on episode 115, and his song \"\"Progress\"\" has been included in a parody in the series' \"Shirogane no Tamashii\" arc 2nd season's episode 9. \"\"Progress\"\" has also been included in a parody in episode 69 of Shinkansen Henkei Robo Shinkalion The Animation. In Arashi's program \"Arashi ni Shiyagare\" of June 30, 2018, a parody of \"Professional Shigoto no Ryuugi\" was made in the section \"Sakurai Sho no asakatsu\", headed by member Sho Sakurai, including Suga's song \"Progress\".\nHis name has also been included in Haruki Murakami's novel After dark, with reference to his song \"\"Bakudan juice\"\".\nIn 2019, director Makoto Shinkai twitted about his admiration for Suga, and that he \"borrowed\" the last name for the character Keisuke Suga from his newest anime movie, Weathering with You.\n\nSuga started appearing at concert venues in 1997 as part of a caravan of artists that either were mostly invited by radio station events, like \"Akasaka Live\" (TBS Radio) or \"Meet the World Beat\" (FM802), or were self promoted by the agency to which he belonged, like in all the \"Augusta Camp\" series, as part of Fukumimi, up until 2012, in which he appeared as guest, since he had retired from in 2011.\n\nHis first live tour as a solo artist was in 1998, in the \"Shikao & The Family Sugar Tour '98\". \"Family Sugar\" was the name given to the support band he had from 1997 to 2007.\n\nFrom 2007 on, Suga has had the support of other groups of musicians. One under the \"Funk Fire\" name, which was the name also of a concert series in larger venues. Another group (with no name) has been supporting him from 2015 on, both for his live tours as well as other events and festival concerts.\n\nHe has also had tours playing the guitar by himself. Most of the concerts in this series are called \"Hitori Sugar\". The first one of the series was on October 22, 2006. For the 2020 Hitori Sugar Tour, Suga posted on his official site a series of recommendations about coronavirus health-related information for people planning to go to live concerts, mainly because of the concerns of the spread of the virus through out Asia.\n\nIn 2009 he made his first trip overseas, to London. It was to be the first time he appeared before a non-Japanese audience.\nIn September 2017 he made his official first appearance in the American Continent, participating in the Greenroom Festival in Hawaii, which he repeated the following year\nIn December 2017 he made his first trip within Asia, visiting Singapore on the 8th and Taiwan on the 17th, under the tour named \"Suga Shikao Asia Circuit 2017\". On the December 26 he ended the tour in the city of Tokyo.\n\nSuga is also a music producer, DJ, and radio personality. His radio stint began shortly after his debut.\nIn 1997 he headed FM NORTHWAVE's \"スガシカオのヒットチャートをかけぬけろ\" (Suga Shikao no Hitto Chaato wo Kakenukero\"). From October 3, 2005, until March 27, 2006, he was hosting a radio program called \"Night Stories Monday\" on J-Wave radio station, which was downloadable as a podcast. Other stations where he worked at are BayFM and FM802. He often appears as special navigator. On April 5, 2020, Suga began a new weekly radio program on J-Wave, called \"Mercedes Benz the Experience\".\n\nIn 2012, Suga translated the lyrics for Hedwig and the Angry Inch, which started performances September 28, at Zepp DiverCity Tokyo, with Mirai Moriyama in the lead.\n\nIn 2017 he celebrates 20 years of career with a musical festival that he has named \"Sugafes\", which had the participation of renowned artists like Dohatsuten, Pornografitti and Mr. Children and others. Sugafes was made in collaboration with Atsushi Shikano, from Viva la Rock Festival, as an added special.\n\nOn August 12, 2017, he makes his acting debut on the WOWOW drama Plage () He also had a cameo in the last episode of the TV Tokyo drama \"Yotsuba ginkou...\", appearing as himself.\n\nHe has provided work to other artists:\n\nHe was a member of Fukumimi, a band formed by artists from the same label (Office Augusta); it consisted of Shikao Suga, Masayoshi Yamazaki, Kyoko (杏子), and later on Chitose Hajime, COIL, Araki Yuko (mi-gu), Sukima Switch and others.\n\nDuring his years at Office Augusta, he toured around the country with a back up band called \"Shikao and the Family Sugar\". The members were Suga Shikao (Vocal & Rhythm Guitar, Lyrics & Composition), Mori Toshiyuki (Keyboard & Band Master, Arrangement), Numazawa Takashi (Drums), Matsubara Hideki (Bass), Mamiya Takumi (Lead Guitar), Otaki Yuko and Saito Kumi (chorus). Activities stopped in 2007 , just after the celebration of his 10th debut anniversary.\n\nIn 2006 he was part of a group of singers all born in 1966. The unit was called \"Roots 66\". And they had a special event called [ROOTS 66 DON'T TRUST OVER 40] on the 2nd of April. Ten years later, in 2016, they reunited again for an event called [ROOTS 66 -Naughty50-]. In 2017, they lent their voices for the ending theme of the second season of the anime \"Osomatsu san\", called レッツゴー!ムッツゴー!～6色の虹～ (\"Let's go! Muttsu go! ~ Rokushoku no niji\").\n\nIn 2006 he was involved in another group, Kokua, for which he has served as vocalist and songwriter. Their first involvement was for the theme song \"Progress\" for NHK's program (\"Professional Shigoto no Ryūgi\", known overseas as \"The Professionals\"). In 2016, the members reunited for their 1st official album and tour.\n\nIn 2009 he was part of the 20th anniversary celebrations of radio station FM802. He was involved in the FM802 x Docomo campaign collaboration song \"Oh! Radio\", written by \"Kiyoshiro Imawano\" (which was to be his last), as part of the special unit called \"Radio Soul 20\". The group consisted of musicians Mao Abe, HY, Shigeru Kishida (Quruli), Shikao Suga, Bonnie Pink, Daisuke Yamamori (Rock'A'Trench), Sho Wada (Triceratops). The song aired April that year.\n\nIn 2015 he was part of the FM802 X Tsutaya Access! spring campaign, writing the song that was to be the campaign song, 「Music Train 春の魔術師」(Music Train ~ Haru no Majutsushi). \"Sugar & The Radio Fire\" is the special unit made to sing the song, and it consists of musicians Shikao Suga, Sakurako Ohara, Yohei Kawakami (Alexandros), Kosuke Saito (Unison Square Garden), Maguro Taniguchi (Kana-Boon), Haruna (Scandal), Tatsuya Mitsumura (Nico Touches the Walls), Ryota Yamamura (Flumpool). Song aired in march 1 to May 31 that year.\n\nIn 2018, he returns as part of the FM802 x Tsutaya Access! Spring campaign as a singer, this time as part of the special unit \"Radio Bestsellers\", with the song 「栞」(Shiori), written by Ozaki Sekaikan (CreepHyp). \"Radio Bestsellers\" is made up by musicians Aimyon, Sekaikan Ozaki (CreepHyp), Kenta Kataoka (Sumika), Gen (04 Limited Sazabys), Kosuke Saito (Unison Square Garden), Shikao Suga.\n\nIn 2019 he collaborated with Takeshi Kobayashi for Tokyo Metro's \"\"Find my Tokyo\"\" campaign in writing the song for its version. He also appears in a cameo in the video for the ad.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1988301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988301", "title": "West Jerusalem", "text": "West Jerusalem\n\nWest Jerusalem or Western Jerusalem refers to the section of Jerusalem that remained under Israeli control after the 1948 Arab–Israeli War, whose ceasefire lines delimited the boundary with the rest of the city, which was then under Jordanian control. A number of western countries such as the United Kingdom acknowledge \"de facto\" Israeli authority, but withhold \"de jure\" recognition. Israel's claim of sovereignty over West Jerusalem is more widely accepted than its claim over East Jerusalem.\n\nPrior to the 1948 Palestine war, the area of West Jerusalem held one of the wealthiest Arab communities, numbering some 28,000 people, in the region. By the end of hostilities, only approximately 750 non-Jews remained in the area's Arab sector, mostly Greeks in the “Greek colony” neighborhood. Following the war, Jerusalem was divided into two parts: the western portion, from which it is estimated roughly 30,000 Arabs had fled or been evicted, came under Israeli rule, while East Jerusalem came under Jordanian rule and was populated mainly by Palestinian Muslims and Christians. The Jordanians expelled a Jewish community of some 1,500 from the Old City.\n\nAfter widespread looting, Israeli institutions managed to gather in around 30,000 books, mostly in Arabic, dealing with Islamic law, Qur’anic exegesis and translations of European literature, together with thousands of works from the holdings of churches and schools. Many were taken from the homes of Palestinian writers and scholars in Qatamon, Bak'a and Musrara.\n\nThe United Nations Partition Plan for Palestine planned a “corpus separatum” for Jerusalem and its environs as an international city.\n\nArabs living in such western Jerusalem neighbourhoods as Katamon or Malha were forced to leave; the same fate befell Jews in the eastern areas, including the Old City of Jerusalem and Silwan. Almost 33% of the land in West Jerusalem in the pre-mandate period had been owned by Palestinians, a fact which made it hard for the evicted Palestinians to accept Israeli control in the West. The Knesset (Israeli Parliament) passed laws to transfer this Arab land to Israeli Jewish organizations.\n\nThe only eastern area of the city that remained in Israeli hands throughout the 19 years of Jordanian rule was Mount Scopus, where the Hebrew University of Jerusalem is located, which formed an enclave during that period and therefore is not considered part of East Jerusalem.\n\nIsrael established West Jerusalem as its capital in 1950. The Israeli government needed to invest heavily to create employment, building new government offices, a new university, the Great Synagogue and the Knesset building. West Jerusalem became covered by the Law and Administrative Ordinance of 1948, subjecting West Jerusalem to Israeli jurisdiction. United States President Donald Trump's administration announced recognition of Jerusalem as Israel's capital on December 6, 2017. On December 15, 2018, Australia officially recognized West Jerusalem as Israel's capital.\n\nDuring the Six-Day War in June 1967, Israel captured the eastern side of the city and the whole West Bank. Over the following years, their control remained tenuous, the international community refusing to recognise their authority and the Israelis themselves not feeling secure.\n\nIn 1980, the Israeli government annexed East Jerusalem and reunified the city but the international community disputed this. The population of Jerusalem has largely remained segregated along the city's historical east/west division. The larger city contains two populations that are \"almost completely economically and politically segregated... each interacting with its separate central business district\", supporting analysis that the city has retained a duocentric, as opposed to the traditional monocentric, structure.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1988307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988307", "title": "Ratu Sir Lala Sukuna Day", "text": "Ratu Sir Lala Sukuna Day\n\nRatu Sir Lala Sukuna Day (commonly known as Ratu Sukuna Day) was a national public holiday in Fiji until the year 2010, when the Prime Minister, Commodore Voreqe Bainimarama, declared both Ratu Sir Lala Sakuna Day and National Youth Day to no longer be public holidays. It was originally celebrated annually on the last Monday of May, in honour of Lala Sukuna (1888-1958), the national father of modern Fiji, whose death anniversary falls on 30 May. The week leading up to Ratu Sukuna Day is marked by public celebrations with speeches and events, with an address from the President of Fiji on the closing day. Members of the public enter Parliament grounds to polish Sukuna's statue.\n\nRatu Sukuna Day in 2000 was marred by the insurrection instigated by George Speight on 19 May 2000, which led to the dismissal of the elected government on 27 May. On Ratu Sukuna Day, Fijian citizens woke up to hear of the military takeover the night before, in the wake of the resignation, possibly forced, of the President, Ratu Sir Kamisese Mara.\n\nRatu Sir Lala Sukuna Day in 2005 was celebrated in 19 centers around Fiji, including on the island of Rotuma. 24 May saw the beginning of a week of celebrations that culminated on 30 May with an event at Suva's Albert Park, with President Ratu Josefa Iloilo as the chief guest.\n\nPrime Minister Laisenia Qarase launched the festivities under the theme of Unity in Diversity on 24 May by officially opening the new Ratu Sukuna Memorial School in Nabua. The newly completed Great Council of Chiefs complex was opened the same day, and Qarase officially launched a website about Ratu Sukuna. A song has also been composed to mark the celebrations. The Fiji Museum in Suva also hosted an exhibition featuring photographs, along with medals, walking sticks, and a glass-encased \"tabua\" (whale's tooth) that had belonged to Ratu Sukuna.\n\nAlluding to the ethnic, religious, and political divisions that have riven Fiji in recent years, Ratu Josateki Nawalowalo, the national organizer of the celebrations, described Ratu Sukuna as \"a master of reconciliation\" from whom the present generation should learn. \"\"This is the kind of leader we should try to emulate because he was true to himself and rose to the occasion when faced with daunting challenges, always proving to the nation that they could depend on him.\"\"\n\nA few discontented voices were raised. On 23 May, Meli Bogileka, general secretary of the People's National Party and a former minister in the Chaudhry government (1999-2000) said that Ratu Sukuna's achievements had been overstated, and overlooked the way his policies had confined native Fijians to pocket settlements and villages which, Bogileka considered, had impeded their progress. His comments drew an immediate rebuff from the government, which in a press release said that Bogileka's statement was inaccurate and insensitive, and should be \"treated with the contempt it deserves.\" Bogileka reiterated his comments on 26 May, saying that Sukuna should have used his chiefly position to encourage indigenous Fijians to work rather than remain in their villages in the name of culture. \"\"I stand wholeheartedly by the comments I made because it is the truth and the poverty that indigenous Fijians are now facing is largely because we rely too much on our families for our survival and cannot really fend for ourselves like other races do,\"\" Bogileka said.\n\nSenator Ratu George Cakobau, son of former Governor-General Ratu Sir George Cakobau, said on 25 May that unless Ratu Sukuna's vision for Fiji was followed, the celebrations would be a waste of money.\n\nOn March 18, 2010, Commodore Voreqe Bainimarama announced that both Ratu Sir Lala Sakuna Day and National Youth Day would no longer be treated as public holidays, as a result of a Cabinet decision to amend the Employment Relations Promulgation. This announcement was met by some confusion and was further clarified by the Ministry of Information on March 22, 2010. The Ministry of Information published a press release stating that these two days were not in need of a public holiday in order to celebrate them.\n\n"}
{"id": "1988309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988309", "title": "Bukit Gombak", "text": "Bukit Gombak\n\nGombak, also known as Bukit Gombak, is a subzone of Bukit Batok, Singapore. It is a hilly neighbourhood in the west-central area of the Southeast Asian city-state of Singapore. In the Malay language, \"bukit\" means hill and \"gombak\" a bunch or collection of something. The neighbourhood consists of two hills. One of them stands at 133m while the other stands at 113m. They are Singapore's second and third highest natural point after Bukit Timah Hill.\n\nGombak is bounded by Bukit Batok Road, West Avenue 5, the North side of Bukit Gombak Sports Complex, West and North side of Town Park, the North-West and North side of the landed housing estate along Hillview Avenue, Upper Bukit Timah Road and Choa Chu Kang Road. It is generally regarded as the area around the elevated Mass Rapid Transit (MRT) train station of the same name (NS3), including the hills to the east of the station and HDB apartment blocks along Bukit Batok West Avenue 5 and East Avenue 5. The Tower Transit feeder bus service 945 from the Bukit Batok bus interchange plies the general area.\n\n\nBukit Gombak was a single-member constituency in the Singapore general elections in 1988, 1991 and 1997. In 1988, the ruling party People's Action Party candidate Dr. Seet Ai Mee defeated the Singapore Democratic Party candidate Ling How Doong by winning 53.5% of the vote. In 1991, Bukit Gombak became one of only four constituencies held by the opposition when Ling won 51.4% of the votes to Seet's 48.6%. In 1997 Ling lost his seat to the PAP's Ang Mong Seng by over 30% of the vote and Bukit Gombak returned to PAP control.\n\nIn the redrawing of electoral boundaries in 2001, shortly before general elections were held, the area was subsumed under the five-member Hong Kah Group Representation Constituency. The PAP slate comprising Yeo Cheow Tong, John Chen Seow Phun, Ahmad Khalis bin Abdul Ghani, Ang Mong Seng and Amy Khor Lean Suan defeated the Singapore Democratic Party with 79.7% of the vote. The PAP won the GRC in a walkover in the 2006 general election with Alvin Yeo and Zaqy Mohamad as new candidates replacing John Chen and Ahmad Khalis. Ang Mong Seng remained as representative for Bukit Gombak. A smallest portion of Bukit Gombak was also subsumed under the five-member Jurong GRC, with Halimah Yacob as the MP for Bukit Batok East, until 2015.\n\nFollowing Hong Kah GRC's dissolution and the 2011 general elections, Bukit Gombak became part of Chua Chu Kang Group Representation Constituency contested by the PAP slate comprising Gan Kim Yong (former member for Chua Chu Kang Single Member Constituency), Alvin Yeo, Zaqy Mohamad and new candidates Low Yen Ling and Alex Yam Ziming. They defeated a team from the National Solidarity Party led by Tony Tan Lay Thiam and Hazel Poa by 61.2% to 38.8%.\n\nLow Yen Ling represents the Bukit Gombak division within the GRC following Ang Mong Seng's retirement in 2011. This division includes Housing and Development Board apartment blocks near the Bukit Gombak MRT station as well as the private estates and condominiums off Hillview Avenue. A smallest portion of Bukit Gombak is part of Jurong GRC, which Rahayu Mahzam currently represents as Bukit Batok East.\n\n"}
{"id": "1988324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988324", "title": "Helpdesk and incident reporting auditing", "text": "Helpdesk and incident reporting auditing\n\nHelp desk and incident reporting auditing is an examination of the controls within the help desk operations. The audit process collects and evaluates evidence of an organization's help desk and incident reporting practices, and operations. The audit ensures that all problems reported by users have been adequately documented and that controls exist so that only authorized staff can archive the users’ entries. It also determine if there are sufficient controls to escalate issues according to priority.\n\nThe management and support of IT assets is essential for all businesses. Help desks are now fundamental and key aspects of good business service and operation. Through the help desk, problems are reported, managed and then appropriately resolved in a timely manner. Help desks can provide both internal and external users the ability to ask questions and receive effective answers. Moreover, help desks can help the organization run smoothly and improve the quality of the support it offers to the users.\n\n\n\n\nToday, there are many software choices which help management operate the help desk functions. In addition, these software products greatly improve the auditing of help desk operation. Help desk software is management software that automates many features of an organization's help desk environment, such as automated email response. It gives businesses the capability of using a systematic approach to responding to both internal and external users.\n\nThe typical functionality of help desk software includes:\n\nThe core components of any help desk software application include the abilities to record and track support requests through all stages. In addition, reporting is also a key element to providing detailed information on how the system is running. The right choice of help desk software depends on the size of the organization and the complexity of the support process. The business needs will vary greatly during different periods of time.\n\n\nThe outsourcing of the help desk function and IT operations as a whole are a growing trend. However, it is important for the management to be aware of the ultimate responsibility for the help desk. This responsibility is still retained in the organization and not in the outsourcing firms. Help desk is still substantially important even if it is outsourced. In addition, it is critical to have appropriate management structure. Outsourcing decisions always involved both risks and benefits. The risks can be mitigated through careful planning. Whether it is a right decision or not for the organization to outsource can be decided through research. It also helps in delegating responsibilities to one and each.\n\nHelp desks play a key role in modern business organizations. A well designed and maintained help desk can substantially:\n\n\nEffective auditing practices can contribute to maintaining the high quality of help desks, and help desk software may further improve the efficiency of help desk auditing.\n\n"}
{"id": "1988326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988326", "title": "Maxine Chernoff", "text": "Maxine Chernoff\n\nMaxine Chernoff (born 1952) is an American novelist, writer, poet, academic and literary magazine editor. She was born and raised in Chicago, Illinois, and attended the University of Illinois at Chicago.\n\nChernoff is a professor and Chair of the Creative Writing program at San Francisco State University. With her husband, Paul Hoover, she edits the long-running literary journal \"New American Writing\". She is the author of six books of fiction and ten books of poetry, including \"The Turning\" (2008) and \"Among the Names\" (2005), both from Apogee Press.\n\nChernoff's novel \"American Heaven\" and her book of short stories, \"Some of Her Friends That Year\", were finalists for the Bay Area Book Reviewers Award. With Paul Hoover, she has translated \"The Selected Poems of Friedrich Hölderlin\" (Omnidawn Press, 2008) which won the 2009 PEN Translation Prize. \n\nAs of 2013, she lives in Mill Valley, California.\n\nReviewers Award\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1988331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988331", "title": "Walter IV, Count of Brienne", "text": "Walter IV, Count of Brienne\n\nWalter IV the Great of Brienne ( (1205–1244) was Count of Brienne 1205–1244. He was the son of Walter III of Brienne and Elvira of Sicily. Around the time of his birth, his father lost his bid for the Sicilian throne and died in prison. His inheritance of the Principality of Taranto and the County of Lecce was confiscated.\n\nWhile a teenager, Walter was sent to Outremer where his uncle John of Brienne was the ruler of Jerusalem. In 1221 John gave him the County of Jaffa and Ascalon, and arranged a marriage with Marie de Lusignan (before March, 1215 – ca. 1252 or 1254), daughter of Hugh I of Cyprus, in 1233.\n\nEven after his uncle had been forced out of the Kingdom by Frederick II, Walter remained one of the most important lords of the Kingdom of Jerusalem. He participated in the Crusade of Theobald I of Navarre in 1139 and was among the many French Crusaders captured by the Ayyubids. He was commander of the Crusader army that marched against the forces of as-Salih Ayyub at the Battle of La Forbie in 1244. Against the advice of al-Mansur of Homs, his Syrian ally, Walter insisted on taking the offensive, rather than fortifying his camp and awaiting the retreat of the Khwarezmians. In this disastrous battle, the Crusader-Syrian forces were nearly annihilated. Walter was captured, tortured before the walls of Jaffa, and ultimately turned over to the Egyptians after the Khwarezmian defeat before Homs in 1246. He was imprisoned in Cairo and murdered by merchants whose caravans he had robbed, with the sultan's consent.\n\nHe was succeeded by his elder son John, who died childless. His younger son Hugh of Brienne settled in Southern Italy and became a partisan of Charles of Anjou, who returned to him the family's county of Lecce.\n\n \n"}
{"id": "1988333", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988333", "title": "Motion and amendment (election)", "text": "Motion and amendment (election)\n\nA motion and amendment electoral system decides the result of the election by following standard rules for adopting other proposals. The steps are:\n\nThis was the system used for the election of the Speaker of the British House of Commons until 2001.\n\nIf there is a Condorcet winner and people vote according to their preferences, then that individual will be considered in the final vote on the motion in step 4. If there is not a Condorcet winner then any person in the final motion will be a member of the Smith set; which individual that is may depend on who is nominated at which stage. However, there is no guarantee that a motion will pass at the end.\n\nThe voting might go as follows:\n\n\nMotion and amendment is prone to tactical voting. The result may also depend on the order in which candidates are considered. \n\nIn the example above, if supporters of Knoxville pretended to prefer Memphis over Nashville or Chattanooga, they could enable Knoxville to appear in the final motion. The voting would have been: \n\n\nThis particular tactical voting would not work if Knoxville had been nominated before Memphis or Chattanooga.\n"}
{"id": "1988336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988336", "title": "Martha MacDonald (disambiguation)", "text": "Martha MacDonald (disambiguation)\n\nMartha MacDonald may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "1988337", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988337", "title": "Beta Lyrae", "text": "Beta Lyrae\n\nBeta Lyrae (β Lyrae, abbreviated Beta Lyr, β Lyr) is a multiple star system in the constellation of Lyra. Based on parallax measurements obtained during the Hipparcos mission, it is approximately distant from the Sun.\n\nIt consists of three components: a triple star system (designated Beta Lyrae A) together with two single star companions (Beta Lyrae B and C). These are also the A, B and C components of a wider system designated WDS J18501+3322, which has additional components designated WDS J18501+3322D, E and F. Beta Lyrae A itself consists of an eclipsing binary pair (Beta Lyrae Aa) and a single star (Ab). The binary pair's two components are themselves designated Beta Lyrae Aa1 (officially named Sheliak , the traditional name of the system) and Aa2.\n\n\"β Lyrae\" (Latinised to \"Beta Lyrae\") is the system's Bayer designation, established by Johann Bayer in his \"Uranometria\" of 1603. WDS J18501+3322 is a designation in the Washington Double Star Catalog. The designations of the constituents as \"Beta Lyrae A\", \"B\" and \"C\", or alternatively \"WDS J18501+3322A\", \"B\" and \"C\", and additionally \"WDS J18501+3322D\", \"E\" and \"F\", and those of \"A's\" components - \"Beta Lyrae Aa\", \"Aa1\", \"Aa2\" and \"Ab\" - derive from the convention used by the Washington Multiplicity Catalog (WMC) for multiple star systems, and adopted by the International Astronomical Union (IAU).\n\nBeta Lyrae bore the traditional name \"Sheliak\" (occasionally \"Shelyak\" or \"Shiliak\"), derived from the Arabic الشلياق \"šiliyāq\" or \"Al Shilyāk,\" one of the names of the constellation of Lyra in Islamic astronomy. In 2016, the International Astronomical Union organized a Working Group on Star Names (WGSN) to catalogue and standardize proper names for stars. The WGSN decided to attribute proper names to individual stars rather than entire multiple systems. It approved the name \"Sheliak\" for the component Beta Lyrae Aa1 on 21 August 2016 and it is now so included in the List of IAU-approved Star Names.\n\nIn Chinese astronomy, \"Tsan Tae\" ( (), meaning \"Clepsydra Terrace\", refers to an asterism consisting of this star, Delta² Lyrae, Gamma Lyrae and Iota Lyrae. Consequently, the Chinese name for Beta Lyrae itself is (, .)\n\nBeta Lyrae Aa is a semidetached binary system made up of a stellar class B6-8 primary star and a secondary that is probably also a B-type star. The fainter, less massive star in the system was once the more massive member of the pair, which caused it to evolve away from the main sequence first and become a giant star. Because the pair are in a close orbit, as this star expanded into a giant it filled its Roche lobe and transferred most of its mass over to its companion.\n\nThe secondary, now more massive star is surrounded by an accretion disk from this mass transfer, with bipolar, jet-like features projecting perpendicular to the disk. This accretion disk blocks humans' view of the secondary star, lowering its apparent luminosity and making it difficult for astronomers to pinpoint what its stellar type is. The amount of mass being transferred between the two stars is about solar masses per year, or the equivalent of the Sun's mass every 50,000 years, which results in an increase in orbital period of about 19 seconds each year. The spectrum of Beta Lyrae shows emission lines produced by the accretion disc. The disc produces around 20% of the brightness of the system.\n\nThe variable luminosity of this system was discovered in 1784 by the British amateur astronomer John Goodricke. The orbital plane of this system is nearly aligned with the line of sight from the Earth, so the two stars periodically eclipse each other. This causes Beta Lyrae to regularly change its apparent magnitude from +3.2 to +4.4 over an orbital period of 12.9414 days. It forms the prototype of a class of ellipsoidal \"contact\" eclipsing binaries.\n\nThe two components are so close together that they cannot be resolved with optical telescopes, forming a spectroscopic binary. In 2008, the primary star and the accretion disk of the secondary star were resolved and imaged using the CHARA Array interferometer and the Michigan InfraRed Combiner (MIRC) in the near infrared H band (see video below), allowing the orbital elements to be computed for the first time.\n\nIn addition to the regular eclipses, the system shows smaller and slower variations in brightness. These are thought to be caused by changes in the accretion disc and are accompanied by variation in the profile and strength of spectral lines, particularly the emission lines. The variations are not regular but have been characterised with a period of 282 days.\n\nAnalysis of Gaia Data Release 2 astrometry reveals a group of about 100 stars around β Lyrae which share its space motion and are at the same distance. The cluster members are all main sequence stars and the lack of a main sequence turnoff means that a precise age cannot be calculated, but the cluster age is estimated at 30 to 100 million years. The average Gaia DR2 parallax for the member stars is .\n\nIn addition to the spectroscopic pair, several other companions to Beta Lyrae have been catalogued. β Lyr B, at an angular distance of 45.7\", is of spectral type B7 V, has an apparent magnitude of +7.2, and can easily be seen with binoculars. It is about 80 times as luminous as the Sun and is also a spectroscopic binary with a period of 4.348 days. β Lyr C is magnitude 9.9v, separation 86\". The Washington Double Star Catalog lists three more faint companions at one to two arc minutes separation.\n\nComponents B and F are thought to be members of a group of stars around β Lyrae, at approximately the same distance and moving together. The others just happen to be in the same line of sight. Components E and F are both chemically peculiar stars; both are catalogued as Ap stars although component F is sometimes thought to be an Am star. Component C has been observed to vary in brightness by over a magnitude, but the type of variability is not known.\n\nThe Gaia spacecraft has provided these data for various companions:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1988339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988339", "title": "The Frog Prince (1971 film)", "text": "The Frog Prince (1971 film)\n\nThe Frog Prince (released on home video as Tales from Muppetland: The Frog Prince) is a 1971 American/Canadian musical fantasy comedy television special directed by Jim Henson, and jointly produced by Robert Lawrence Productions and Henson Associates. It is a retelling of the classic fairy tale of \"The Frog Prince\" featuring Kermit the Frog as the narrator, Kermit's nephew Robin as the Frog Prince, Sir Robin the Brave, and Sweetums, among others. This special marked the debut of both Robin and Sweetums to the world of The Muppets.\n\nWhile swimming in a well, Kermit introduces himself as the narrator of a special about frogs. The special opens with Kermit and several other frogs sitting around a well, when a small frog they do not recognize appears. The frog introduces himself as Sir Robin the Brave, explaining that he is actually a prince. He recounts, in flashback, how he once fought an ogre named Sweetums and was transformed into a frog by Sweetums's master, a villainous witch named Taminella Grinderfall. Taminella intended to give Robin to Sweetums as his breakfast, but Robin hopped away before they could catch him. The other frogs laughingly dismiss Robin's story as a fairy tale. Kermit is more sympathetic, though he himself does not fully believe Robin. Robin reveals to Kermit that he cannot swim, and Kermit gives him swimming lessons. Nearby, they hear King Rupert the Second proclaiming that he will step down as king that evening; and his daughter, Princess Melora (who is turning nineteen that day), will be crowned queen. Robin is overjoyed, as he must be kissed by a princess in order to be returned to human form.\n\nThe princess later comes to the well, and Robin learns that she is under an enchantment that prevents anyone from understanding what she says (her speech consists mostly of spoonerism). As she sits by the well, singing to herself, she accidentally drops her golden ball in the water. Robin offers to retrieve it for her if she will befriend him and take him to the palace (two conditions that must be met before she can kiss Robin). Though initially reluctant, Melora agrees; and Robin succeeds in fetching the ball, despite his limited swimming skills. Melora puts him in her basket to take him back to the palace; but before they leave, Robin learns that Taminella is also at the palace, posing as the king's sister. Robin reveals Taminella's identity to Kermit, who follows him to the palace to keep an eye on him.\n\nAt the palace, it is revealed that Taminella placed the enchantment on Melora so that she could not tell anyone of Taminella's true identity. Robin asks Melora to kiss him, saying he will turn into a prince. She does not believe him; but in an effort to befriend her, he points out that he can understand her jumbled speech. They sing a duet of the song that Melora had been singing at the well; but before they can kiss, Taminella catches them. Recognizing Robin, she vows she will feed him to Sweetums before being summoned to speak with the king about the upcoming coronation. Melora tells Robin the only way to destroy Taminella's power is to \"bake the hall in the candle of her brain,\" which Robin does not understand. As Melora and Taminella leave for lunch, Robin asks Melora to kiss him good-bye; Taminella suggests she bring Robin with them instead.\n\nAt lunch, Taminella announces that she and Rupert have decided Taminella shall be crowned queen, as Melora cannot be understood. Melora frantically tries to tell her father the truth about Taminella, but he does not understand her mixed-up speech. Robin also tries to tell the king the truth, but Taminella silences him by stuffing his mouth with popovers. Unable to get through to her father, Melora storms out, leaving Robin behind. Taminella takes Robin to Sweetums's lair in a cage.\n\nRobin lulls Sweetums to sleep with a lullaby, and Kermit (who had followed them) tries to free Robin. Unsuccessful, he pretends to be Taminella and tricks Sweetums into freeing Robin himself (while sleepwalking). But Sweetums, realizing he is tricked, wakes up and intents on eating Robin. He chases him and Kermit around his lair, smashing furniture to pieces with his club in the process, until a falling pillar knocks him unconscious.\n\nKermit and Robin escape, but learn that the coronation is starting. Robin tells Kermit to go back to the swamp and summon the other frogs, while he tries to figure out what \"bake the hall in the candle of her brain\" means. Kermit and the frogs return just before Taminella is to be crowned, and help Robin disrupt the coronation. Amidst the chaos of the hopping frogs, Melora yells out \"The candle of her hane!\"; and Robin realizes \"bake the hall in the candle of her brain\" really means \"break the ball in the handle of her cane.\" He bites Taminella on the arm, causing her to drop her cane and shatter the glass ball in its handle. Taminella's power destroyed, she collapses and turns into a bird, which flies off. Melora's enchantment is broken, and she tells the truth to her dumbfounded father. She expresses her thanks to the frogs, particularly Robin, whom she kisses in gratitude. Robin turns back into a prince, to everyone's amazement, and professes his love for Melora. King Rupert the Second, still confused but not wanting to spoil the happy ending, crowns Melora queen; everyone sings in celebration.\n\nBack at the well, Kermit reveals that Robin and Melora were eventually married, and that he still sees them sometimes. They then appear with their infant son, whom they have named after Kermit. Kermit expresses how flattered he is to have a prince named after him, and leaps into the well and swims around, humming Melora's song from earlier as the credits roll.\n\nLater syndicated alongside \"The Muppet Show\".\n\n\n\nAdditional Muppets performed by Faz Fazakas, John Lovelady, and Daniel Seagren.\n\n\"The Frog Prince\" was first released on LP, then VHS, Betamax and LaserDisc in 1983 under the Muppet Home Video label. On January 14, 1994, Jim Henson Video released the special on VHS.\n\n"}
{"id": "1988341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988341", "title": "Hairshirt (film)", "text": "Hairshirt (film)\n\nHairshirt (released to home video as Too Smooth) is a 1998 romantic comedy film starring Dean Paras, Neve Campbell, Katie Wright, Rebecca Gayheart and Stefan Brogren.\n\nDanny Reilly (Dean Paras) is a self-obsessed man who, after dumping Renee Weber (Neve Campbell), falls in love again with Corey Wells (Katie Wright). But Renee makes it her mission to see that Danny never falls in love again and sets out for attack when he falls for Corey. Who will get the girl when Danny's constantly talking roomie Tim (Stefan Brogren) falls in love with Corey too?\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1988347", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988347", "title": "Supermarine Spiteful", "text": "Supermarine Spiteful\n\nThe Supermarine Spiteful was a British Rolls-Royce Griffon-engined fighter aircraft designed by Supermarine to Air Ministry specification F.1/43 during the Second World War as a successor to the Spitfire. It had a new wing design, to improve its critical Mach number and allow safe operations at higher speeds. The new design also had a modern inwards-retracting undercarriage. Other changes included a larger fin to improve the somewhat marginal stability of Griffon Spitfires and changes to the mounting of the engine to tilt it down slightly for better visibility over the nose.\n\nThe Spiteful was ready for production as the war was ending and was passed over in favour of jet-powered designs. The Royal Navy continued development as the Supermarine Seafang as it was not clear jets could safely operate from aircraft carriers but the success of the de Havilland Sea Vampire led to this project being cancelled in 1945. Discussions with the French firm SNCAC to produce the Spiteful under licence were abandoned when France produced jet engines. Of the original order for 150 Spitefuls, only a small number were completed.\n\nBy 1942, Supermarine designers had realised that the characteristics of the Spitfire's wing at high Mach numbers might become a limiting factor in increasing the aircraft's high-speed performance. The main problem was the aeroelasticity of the Spitfire's wing; at high speeds the relatively light structure behind the strong leading edge torsion box would flex, changing the airflow and limiting the maximum safe diving speed to 480 mph (772 km/h) IAS. If the Spitfire were to be able to fly higher and faster, a radically new wing would be needed.\n\nJoseph Smith and the design team were aware of a paper on compressibility, published by A.D. Young of the R.A.E, in which he described a new type of wing section; the maximum thickness and camber would be much nearer to the mid-chord than conventional airfoils and the nose section of this airfoil would be close to an ellipse. In November 1942, Supermarine issued Specification No 470 which (in part) stated:\nSpecification 470 described how the wing had been designed with a straight taper to simplify production and to achieve a smooth and accurate contour. The wing skins were to be relatively thick, aiding torsional rigidity which was needed for good aileron control at high speeds. Although the prototype was to have a dihedral of 3° it was intended that this would be increased in subsequent aircraft. To improve the ground-handling the Spitfire's narrow-track, outward-retracting undercarriage was replaced with a wider-track, inward-retracting system. (This eliminated a weakness in the original Spitfire design, giving the new plane similar, safer landing characteristics, comparable to the Hurricane, Typhoon, Tempest, Mustang, and Focke-Wulf 190.) The Air Ministry was impressed by the proposal and, in February 1943, issued Specification F.1/43 for a single-seat fighter with a laminar flow wing; there was also to be provision made for a wing folding scheme to meet possible Fleet Air Arm requirements. The new fighter was to use a fuselage based on a Spitfire VIII.\n\nThe new wing was fitted to a modified Spitfire XIV \"NN660\", in order to make a direct comparison with the earlier elliptical wing, and was first flown on 30 June 1944 by Jeffrey Quill. Although the new Spitfire's speed performance was comfortably in excess of an unmodified Spitfire XIV, the new wing displayed some undesirable behaviour at the stall which, although acceptable, did not come up to the high standards of Mitchell's earlier elliptical wing. \"NN660\" crashed on 13 September 1944 while performing mock-combat at low altitude with a standard Spitfire, killing pilot Frank Furlong. No reason for the loss was officially established, although Quill suspected that the aileron control rods had momentarily seized, the Spiteful using control rods rather than the Spitfire's cables. Quill noted that from then on a careful check was always made of the control rods at the factory, and that type of accident never re-occurred.\n\nIn the meantime, the opportunity had been taken to redesign the Spitfire's fuselage, to improve the pilot's view over the nose and to eliminate gross directional instability by using a larger fin and rudder. This instability had been apparent since the introduction of the more powerful Griffon engine. The instability was exacerbated by the increase in propeller blade area due to the introduction of the four-bladed and subsequent five-bladed Rotol airscrews for the next aircraft, \"NN664\" (for which Specification F.1/43 had been issued). The updated design incorporated the new fuselage (although lacking the enlarged fin/rudder) and, as it was now substantially different from a Spitfire, the aircraft was named \"Spiteful\" (although \"Victor\" had been originally proposed).\n\nThe Spiteful was ordered into production as the Spiteful XIV (having no preceding marks of its own, the numerals were carried over from the original Spitfire XIV conversion), and 150 of the aircraft were ordered. With the advent of jet propulsion, however, the future of high-performance fighters was clearly with the jet fighter, and so the order was later cancelled with only a handful of Spitefuls built. At the time however, there was some uncertainty over whether jet aircraft would be able to operate from the Royal Navy's aircraft carriers so it was decided to develop a naval version of the Spiteful, to specification N.5/45, subsequently named Seafang.\n\nThe Seafang featured folding wingtips, a \"sting\"-type arrester hook and a Griffon 89 or 90 engine, fed from an extended carburettor air intake driving two new Rotol three-bladed contra-rotating propellers. The first one produced was a converted Spiteful XV (\"RB520\") but with the successful operation of the de Havilland Sea Vampire from the carrier in 1945, the need for the Seafang disappeared.\n\nWith the end of the Second World War, Supermarine entered into discussions with \"Société Nationale de Constructions Aéronautiques du Nord\" (SNCAN) about licence production of the Spiteful in France, but again the introduction of jet fighters overshadowed the piston-engined fighter and the talks came to nothing.\n\n\nIn late 1943 or early 1944, Supermarine's chief designer Joe Smith suggested Supermarine develop a simple jet fighter based around the Spiteful's wing, and use a new jet engine being proposed by Rolls-Royce (later the Nene). This proposal was accepted and a new specification, E.10/44, was issued by the Air Ministry for an experimental aircraft which was initially referred to as the \"Jet Spiteful\"; the prototype \"TS409\" first flew on 27 July 1946. The E.10/44 was not ordered by the RAF, as its performance was not substantially better than the Gloster Meteor and de Havilland Vampire, but the Admiralty expressed an interest in the aircraft for use as a naval fighter and issued specification E.1/45 around it. The aircraft was subsequently named \"Attacker\" and had a short career with the Fleet Air Arm and the Pakistan Air Force.\n\nThe enlarged fin/rudder of the Spiteful was also used on the Spitfire Mark 22 and 24s and Seafire Mark 46 and 47s and was usually referred to as the \"Spiteful type\" tail.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1988354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988354", "title": "Britannia silver", "text": "Britannia silver\n\nBritannia silver is an alloy of silver containing 11 ozt 10 dwt (i.e. 11½ troy oz.) silver in the pound troy, equivalent to , or 95.833% by weight (mass) silver, the rest usually being copper.\n\nThis standard was introduced in England by Act of Parliament in 1697 to replace sterling silver (92.5% silver) as the obligatory standard for items of \"wrought plate\". The lion passant gardant hallmark denoting sterling was replaced with \"the figure of a woman commonly called Britannia\", and the leopard's head mark of the Worshipful Company of Goldsmiths replaced with a \"lion's head erased\".\n\nBritannia standard silver was introduced as part of the great recoinage scheme of William III from 1696, when attempts were made to limit the clipping and melting of sterling silver coinage. A higher standard for wrought plate meant that sterling silver coins could not easily be used as a source of raw material because additional fine silver, which was in short supply at the time, would have to be added to bring the purity of the alloy up to the higher standard.\n\nBritannia silver is considerably softer than sterling, and after complaints from the trade, sterling silver was again authorised for use by silversmiths from 1 June 1720, and thereafter Britannia silver has remained an optional standard for hallmarking in the United Kingdom and Ireland.\n\nSince the hallmarking changes of 1 January 1999, Britannia silver has been denoted by the millesimal fineness hallmark 958, with the symbol of Britannia being applied optionally.\n\nThe silver bullion coins of the Royal Mint issued since 1997, known as \"Britannias\" for their reverse image, were minted in Britannia standard silver until 2012, when they switched to 999 pure silver.\n\nBritannia silver should be distinguished from Britannia metal, a pewter-like alloy containing no silver.\n\n"}
{"id": "1988356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988356", "title": "Mermaid Avenue Vol. II", "text": "Mermaid Avenue Vol. II\n\nMermaid Avenue Vol. II is a 2000 album of previously unheard lyrics written by American folk singer Woody Guthrie, put to music written and performed by British singer Billy Bragg and American band Wilco. It continues the project originally conceived by Guthrie's daughter, Nora Guthrie which resulted in the release of \"Mermaid Avenue\" in 1998. Both volumes were collected in a 2012 box set along with volume three as \"\".\n\n\"Man in the Sand\", a documentary about the collaboration between Bragg and Wilco, was released in 1999.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1988358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988358", "title": "City of Mount Isa", "text": "City of Mount Isa\n\nThe City of Mount Isa is a local government area in north west Queensland. The City covers the urban locality of Mount Isa, the administrative centre, and surrounding area, sharing a boundary with the Northern Territory to the west.\n\nMount Isa is a reasonably affluent district. The largest industry in the City is the Mount Isa Mines, a source of lead, copper, silver and zinc. Cattle grazing and tourism are other industries of note.\n\nThe city was inhabited by the Kalkadoon and Indjilandji people, whose livelihood depended on hunting and gathering, fishing and trade for several thousands of years, before the European settlers arrived here. The Kalkadoon craftsmen were known for their stone implements and handmade tools which were traded with other Aboriginal groups spread all over the western Queensland.\n\nKalkatunga (also known as Kalkadoon, Kalkadunga, Kalkatungu) is an Australian Aboriginal language. The Kalkatunga language region is North-West Queensland including the local government areas of the City of Mount Isa. \n\nOn 10 February 1914, the Shire of Barclay Tableland, based in Camooweal, was incorporated on an area previously managed by the shires of Burke and Cloncurry. On 14 August 1919 the spelling was changed and it became known as Shire of Barkly Tableland. As a consequence of the growth of Mount Isa as a mining and population centre within the shire, an Order in Council dated 15 December 1962 renamed the shire to Shire of Mount Isa, effective 1 July 1963, and its administration centre relocated to Mount Isa. At the same time it gained part of the Shire of Cloncurry. On 30 May 1968, the shire was proclaimed as a City due to the area reaching a population of 18,000.\n\nThe City of Mount Isa includes the following settlements:\n\nMineside Mount Isa:\n\nTownside Mount Isa:\n\nThe Mount Isa City Council operate a public library at Mount Isa City.\n\n\nSister cities of Mount Isa include:\n"}
{"id": "1988374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988374", "title": "Brampton Island", "text": "Brampton Island\n\nBrampton Island is an island in the Cumberland Group, off shore from Mackay in the Mackay Region, Queensland, Australia. The island lies within the Great Barrier Reef World Heritage Area, and the majority of the island forms the Brampton Islands National Park, however there is a resort located on the island. The highest point of the island is Brampton Peak, 214 m above sea level.\n\nThe traditional Aboriginal owners of Brampton Island are the Ngaro people, although no permanent population was present when Captain James Cook passed through the area in June 1770. The island was eventually given its European name in 1879, when Staff Commander Bedwell of the Royal Navy recognised the group of islands and named each after towns in the county of Cumberland.\n\nIn 1916, Joseph Busuttin and his family became the island's first European settlers. The island's resort was first established in December 1933 when two of the Busuttin sons welcomed passengers from the P&O ship \"SS Canberra\". Busuttin's sons then sold the resort and left in 1959.\n\nThere were several owners briefly over the next two years, Carapark and Hotels of Australia. In 1961, the island was purchased for 80,000 pounds by the McLean family which had been operating Roylen Cruises from Mackay which was started by Tom McLean MBE, a former World War II Army Engineer. Tom had been with the Dock's company in PNG and spent considerable time on and about the Fairmile \"B\"s. In due course there was a fleet of Fairmiles operating from what was possibly Australia's worst-positioned port of Mackay.\n\nTom McLean's son Fitzroy, who previously had been the Master of an ex-World War II Fairmile, Roylen Star, became the manager of the island. He was the ultimate host and proved to be a considerable drawcard over many years. Another former Roylen skipper, Ray Smith, became the Assistant Manager. The resort developed quickly with the aid of the Roylen Cruise fleet, operating a system called Cruise n Stay, by utilising both vessels and the accommodation at the Island. These cruises toured the reef and Whitsunday's, often returning to Brampton to drop off people wishing to stay there. Brampton was perhaps the most idyllic of all the islands as it was protected by Carlisle Island and the resort was positioned facing the north so the prevailing and often blustery Southerly winds had no effect on the island or its pristine beaches. With the addition of Brampton, came an influx of tourists and tourist dollars.\n\nA small railway was introduced to run stores and supplies from the \"Deep Water Jetty\" to the resort. This was a rail system based on the sugar cane trains operated in the nearby \"Sugar Town\" of Mackay. Due to the huge tidal differences (up to 6 metres or so) the jetty at the resort could only be utilised at certain times due to the depth of the water, whereas the \"Deep Water Jetty\" could be used around the clock.\n\nThe island featured regularly on Bob Dyer's television show \"Pick a Box\". It hosted many television, media and other personalities with many spending their honeymoons at the resort. Some notables included John Farnham, John Laws, and Daryl Somers, as well as the English pop group \"The Police\". \n\nAn engineering feat during its day saw an airstrip built on the island in 1965 which operated TAA aircraft including (during the 1970s) De Havilland Twin Otters. It was, however, a relatively short airstrip and several aircraft had accidents there including one of TAA's Twin Otters. No one was killed in any of the accidents there.\n\nA saltwater swimming pool was completed in 1972. \n\nThe island was operated in a less-than-formal manner and many tourists came back year after year to enjoy that informality. There were several cyclones over this period and the island suffered considerable damage. It was also used as a stop-off point for numerous Royal Australian Navy vessels including the \"Attack\" class patrol boats and Landing Craft. In the 1970s Fitzroy McLean's sons, Ian, Mark, Fitzroy Junior, and Peter all worked on the island.\n\nIn the late '80s the island's owners started demolishing villa style accommodation and constructed a new upmarket block referred to as the \"Blue Lagoon\" block. The Island also featured well in the Cruising Yacht Clubs with 2 notable events every year - \"The Bowen to Brampton\" and the \"Mackay to Brampton\" events. In 1985, Trans Australia Airlines purchased Brampton Island, upgraded the resort and subsequently sold it to P&O Resorts in late 1997. Three million dollars was spent on a major refurbishment of the resort before it was purchased by Voyages.\n\nOn 1 September 1983, British resort worker Celia Douty was murdered in Dinghy Bay on Brampton Island. The crime remained unsolved until 2001, when it became the first murder in Australia to be solved using DNA profiling.\n\nOn 3 April 2008, a single-engine Piper Cherokee crashed into the ocean just after taking off from Brampton Island. The pilot and four passengers survived and were rescued by helicopter.\n\nMost of the island is part of Brampton Islands National Park, which is home to a range of wildlife and plants. There are also 17.8 km of walking tracks and a campsite, which requires a permit to use.\n\nThe Brampton Island Resort accommodates up to 220 guests in 106 rooms and is popular with couples. The resort offers a number of free and paid-for activities, including fishing trips, snorkelling and scenic flights.\n\nThe resort was operated by Voyages until 2010 when it was sold to Brampton Enterprises. In November 2010 Brampton Enterprises announced a major redevelopment of the resort which would involve closing the resort from 24 January 2011, until an expected reopening in December 2011.\n\n"}
{"id": "1988376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988376", "title": "Rainbow Prelude", "text": "Rainbow Prelude\n\nA young French girl meets and falls in love with Frédéric Chopin, at the time when Poland was occupied by Russian troops.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1988386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988386", "title": "Memphis Mafia", "text": "Memphis Mafia\n\nThe \"Memphis Mafia\" was the nickname given by rock 'n' roll icon Elvis Presley to a group of friends, associates, employees and cousins whose main functions were to accompany, protect, and serve Elvis from the beginning of his career in 1954 until his death in 1977. Several members filled practical roles in the singer's life. For instance, they were employed to work for him as bodyguards or on tour logistics and scheduling. In these cases Elvis paid salaries, but most lived off fringe benefits such as gifts, cars, houses and bonuses. Over the years, the number of members grew and changed, but for the most part there was a core group who spent much time with the singer.\n\nElvis preferred men around him who were loyal, trustworthy and deferential. Thus family members and friends of his youth were very important to him. \"For the first time in his life, he had a group of male friends to pal around with, and he relished being the leader of the pack.\" The group began with Elvis' first cousins Junior and Gene Smith (Gladys Presley's sister Levalle's children) who accompanied Elvis everywhere, along with Elvis' high school friend Red West and rockabilly singer Cliff Gleaves. At that time Judy Spreckels seems to have been the only woman. She describes herself as having been like a sister to Elvis, a companion, confidante and keeper of secrets in the exciting days of his early career. \"Elvis was surrounded by the first wave of what would become known as the Memphis Mafia.\" She says that she \"was with him and the guys all the time.\" They drove bumper cars in Las Vegas Valley, rode horses in California and hung out at Graceland. \"There wasn't a crowd then, just a few guys,\" and she emphasizes that she \"had nothing to do with being a yes man for him and obviously he trusted me.\" Among \"the first to live, travel and play with Elvis\" were Red West, Delbert B. \"Sonny\" West (died 24 May 2017, Nashville, TN), Billy Smith, who was with Elvis from the start to the end and the only original member still with Elvis after 1976, Charlie Hodge, Lamar Fike, and Joe Esposito. Over the years they were joined on the payroll by Alan Fortas, Richard Davis, Marty Lacker, Jimmy Kingsley, \"Chief\" Ray Sitton, Jerry Schilling, Mike Keeton, Dave Hebler, Sam Thompson and numerous others.\n\nAround 1960, the media dubbed these people the \"Memphis Mafia.\" This first referred to their image, as they usually cruised the city in black mohair suits and dark sunglasses. According to one account, a crowd of people in front of the Riviera Hotel watched as two big black limousines arrived. Elvis and his friends got out of the two cars and someone in the crowd yelled, \"Who are they, the Mafia?\" and a newspaper reporter picked up the story. The Memphis Mafia members themselves say on their website that Elvis liked the name and it stuck. These original Memphis Mafia members at the time the phrase was coined were Billy Smith, Sonny West, Marty Lacker, Lamar Fike, Joe Esposito, Red West, Charlie Hodge and Alan Fortas.\n\nPresley and his friends and employees also adopted the acronym \"TCB\" which meant \"Taking Care of Business\". Presley had the tail of his private jet painted with the initials \"TCB\" and a lightning bolt and gave away gold and diamond chain necklaces with TCB (and ) logos as gifts. Elvis' wife Priscilla, helped with the creation of this logo on a flight through stormy conditions. A lightning bolt flashed across the sky in front of them, and Elvis took inspiration from it. Priscilla sketched out the design on note paper; positioning the letters and lightning bolt in various ways before they found what they liked.\n\nWilliam Otterburn-Hall describes the men as close around the star \"like a football scrum after a loose ball\". He relates that they were a \"friendly bunch\" who, when Elvis began to sing just for fun during his interview, followed \"suit, singing, clowning, all on their feet\". According to Patrick Humphries, they \"acted as Elvis' bodyguards, babysitters, drug procurers, girl-getters, mates and car buyers.\" The author also mentions other functions of the guys: \"various members of the Memphis Mafia had ... played vital roles in keeping Elvis' numerous dirty secrets out of the public eye. A couple of them had been arrested with false prescriptions attempting to collect drugs for Elvis, quite a few had taken physical hits in the service of protecting Elvis and none were paid more than $500 a week. For that they were often shouted at, abused and belittled by the King when he felt like it.\" noted Buzz Cason. Marty Lacker states, \"Everyone had assigned responsibilities and they were far from leeches, hangers on or whatever else they were called.\" \"They all had jobs to do so that Elvis could do his and as far as being there for the money, that's laughable because there really wasn't much in that area to be there for.\" Marty went on to say, \"Most of us were not there for the money, we were there because we all cared about Elvis and each other like brothers.\"\n\nThe Members of the Memphis Mafia had specific jobs. Joe Esposito handled money and cross referenced the extensive travel arrangements. Charlie Hodge harmonized with Elvis, played background acoustic guitar, and gave him scarves and beverages during concerts, as well as being responsible for inspecting each stage layout before the concert. Lamar Fike handled Elvis' stage lighting. Red and Sonny West were Elvis' bodyguards (although Red West also had a talent for writing songs, including some recorded by Elvis such as \"If Everyday Was Like Christmas\" and then \"Separate Ways\"). Marty Lacker was a brutally honest \"sounding board\" advisor, Jerry Schilling gave advice about what other groups were using for audio equipment etc., and Elvis' Cousin Billy Smith was a jack of all trades as they called him.\n\nPeter Guralnick writes that Elvis spent all day and night with the members from the Memphis Mafia: \"For Elvis and the guys ... Hollywood was just an open invitation to party all night long. Sometimes they would hang out with Sammy Davis, Jr., or check out Bobby Darin at the Cloister. Nick Adams and his gang came by the suite all the time, not to mention the eccentric actor Billy Murphy, longtime friend of John Wayne and Robert Mitchum\". Guralnick adds \"The Colonel joked that they looked like a bunch of old men, but the Memphis Mafia had become almost as well known around town as Frank Sinatra's Rat Pack\" and that Elvis and his guys were all \"living on speed and tranqs\". For Joe Esposito, \"it was a party like you wouldn't believe. Go to a different show every night, then pick up a bunch of women afterwards, go party the next night. Go to the lounges, see Fats Domino, Della Reese, Jackie Wilson, the Four Aces, the Dominoes – all the old acts. We'd stay there and never sleep, we were all taking pills just so we could keep up with each other.\"\n\nWhen Presley emerged as a major celebrity in 1956, he was constantly besieged by adoring fans and the press, making a normal lifestyle impossible. However, Presley's enormous wealth allowed him an ability to separate himself from the general public, especially in his home city of Memphis. For example, he would rent an entire movie theater to watch a film. Among Memphis natives, he was most known for renting out the entire Memphis amusement park Libertyland in order to ride his favorite roller coaster the Zippin Pippin. Professional handlers and celebrity security experts had not yet evolved. Presley faced repeated threats of physical violence from outraged moral extremists and death threats from fanatics, as would later happen when he performed in Las Vegas. These threats were kept out of the press for fear of triggering even more.\n\nFor both his security needs and touring support, Presley hired people chosen from among those he could trust and depend on to manage his public appearances. This entourage included first cousins and several of Presley's friends from his boyhood in a poor Memphis housing project plus junior and senior high school friends and early employees from Memphis such as Alan Fortas, nephew of U.S. Supreme Court Justice Abe Fortas. Many people were employed with the group through the years but some of the more prominent members were Joe Esposito, Lamar Fike, Alan Fortas, Marty Lacker, Billy Smith, Richard Davis, Red West, Sonny West, Dave Hebler, Al Strada, Dr. Nick, Larry Geller, Charlie Hodge, Jerry Schilling, Sam Thompson and Gene Smith.\n\nEach man had specific duties. Joe Esposito served as Elvis' chief road manager and personal aide for 17 years. Marty Lacker, another aide, also served as Elvis' chief personal aide for several years. Esposito and Lacker were Presley's best men at his wedding. Sonny West was responsible for security at Presley concerts. Red West was one of Presley's earliest friends from their school days, his first bodyguard which he would remain until the last year of Presley's life, and in 1954 had acted as a driver for Elvis, Scotty Moore and Bill Black when they first toured the American South performing as the \"Blue Moon Boys.\" Priscilla Presley said these employees were paid an average of $250 per week during the 1960s, which rose to $425 per week in the 1970s, however one pay stub does exist that showed a weekly pay of only $35 for the '63-65 era. Each Christmas all Presley employees received bonus checks. Some members of this inner circle became close friends who served as replacements for the normal everyday friendships Presley's fame would not allow. Marty Lacker and Elvis' cousin, Billy Smith, were probably the closest true friends of Elvis according to some in the group. Known for his generosity (attributed by Presley himself to an impoverished childhood), he bought some of these employees homes as wedding gifts and frequently bought new Cadillac automobiles for employees, relatives and friends.\n\nElvis's father Vernon increasingly distrusted and disliked many members of the Memphis Mafia as Elvis' financial condition deteriorated in 1972. Presley's rapid financial deterioration was partly a result of his divorce from Priscilla Presley, which was finalized on October 9, 1973.\n\nThroughout the years, several members of the Memphis Mafia left Elvis' employment, either due to falling out with Vernon Presley or for personal reasons, only to return at later dates. This included Marty Lacker, Jerry Schilling, and Lamar Fike.\n\nThe most publicized fallout came when Vernon Presley fired Elvis' longtime friends Red West and Sonny West on July 13, 1976.\n\nVernon Presley gave the reasons for their firing to be: Elvis' expenses were increasing at an alarming rate, and there were complaints and threats of lawsuits about the manner in which Red West and Sonny West interacted with fans. After being in Elvis' employment for two decades, both Red West and Sonny West were only paid a few weeks' severance pay. Their requests to speak directly to Elvis about their employment termination and the nominal severance pay were not granted. Red West, Sonny West, and Elvis himself felt betrayed, and all parties were upset with one another in the manner in which they were fired.\n\nWhen Colonel Parker informed Elvis Red West and Sonny West were writing a \"tell-all book\" about Elvis, which included the disclosure of Elvis' addiction to prescribed pain medications, Elvis was furious as well as \"hurt\". Elvis and the Colonel discussed offering Red West and Sonny West a monetary settlement in return for a written agreement the book would not be published, and their experiences with Elvis, on stage and off would remain confidential. An agreement was not reached, and when Elvis received a copy of the book entitled \"Elvis, What Happened?\" (which was first published on July 12, 1977), he worried that his reputation would be adversely affected. Most of all, Elvis was concerned his daughter Lisa Marie Presley, would be adversely affected by the contents of the book. The publication of the book bothered Elvis on a personal and professional level during the last two weeks of his life.\n\nIn numerous press conferences concerning the book \"Elvis, What Happened?\", both Red West and Sonny West stated they wrote the book, in part, in order to make Elvis realize that his dependence on prescription medications was (literally) killing him. They stated they hoped their book would \"shock\" Elvis into seeking medical care away from the physicians who were complicit in prescribing Elvis large amounts of prescription medications and fully resting and becoming \"clean\" off of these prescribed drugs.\n\nElvis Presley reportedly spent days and nights with his friends and employees from the Memphis Mafia. They were a big family and Elvis lived in a \"milieu of a protective brotherhood.\" Gerald Marzorati says that Elvis \"couldn't go anywhere else without a phalanx of boyhood friends.\" Even the girls he dated lamented, \"Whenever you were with Elvis for the most part you were with his entourage. Those guys were always around\". According to the singer's cousin Billy Smith, Elvis got into bed with Smith and his wife Jo \"many times at Graceland when we would spend the night there in Lisa's room, or on tour in the hotel, and at the trailer on the property at Graceland. ... we were all three there talking for hours about everything in the world! Sometimes he would have a bad dream and come looking for me to talk to, and he would actually fall asleep in our bed with us. That happened a lot of times, and we thought nothing of it.\"\n\nWhen they rented the Rainbow Rollerdrome in Memphis, Elvis and the \"Memphis Mafia\" usually played \"a game called 'War', of which Elvis was the proud inventor. There were two teams, and the object of the game was to knock over as many members of the opposing team as possible by any means.\" Another game was called the 'Whip' game. \"Elvis's idea of an exciting game was that it should be as dangerous as possible\", such as the game that involved fireworks. \"Some of the Memphis Mafia would buy up to $15,000 worth of fireworks in today's money, including skyrockets, baby giants, firecrackers, and chasers, which moved rapidly and unpredictably until they exploded. Since the emphasis was on large and potentially lethal fireworks, everyone had to wear air force jump-suits plus gloves, helmets, and goggles. When they were all dressed up, they divided themselves into Blue and Red teams, and started hurling fireworks at the other team; Elvis was left with a big scar on his neck from one firework, and one of his friends nearly lost an eye.\"\n\nSince the late 1970s, some former members of the Memphis Mafia have written books on Elvis. The first exposé book, \"\" appeared in 1977 shortly before Elvis's death. This so-called Bodyguard book came from the West cousins and Dave Hebler. They wrote about Presley's years of prescription drug abuse which eventually led to his death. The guys were fired, but not by Elvis in person. Elvis had \"even offered the publishers money not to go ahead with it. For Vernon the book was proof of his long-held distrust and dislike not just of those three but of the whole of the Memphis Mafia ...\" Even George Klein, who chastised and shunned other members of the group for writing books about Elvis, ended up writing a book as well.\nIn 2007, Sonny West released \"Elvis: Still Takin' Care of Business\", which was a softer look at his relationship with the King.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1988388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988388", "title": "Corrupt and Illegal Practices Prevention Act 1883", "text": "Corrupt and Illegal Practices Prevention Act 1883\n\nThe Corrupt and Illegal Practices Prevention Act 1883 (46 & 47 Vict c. 51) was an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland. It was a continuation of policy to make voters free from the intimidation of landowners and politicians. It criminalised attempts to bribe voters and standardised the amount that could be spent on election expenses.\n\nDespite the Ballot Act 1872, William Ewart Gladstone's Second Ministry (1880-85) knew that to make voting less corrupt, certain measures were required to eradicate intimidation and bribery. The act meant that the expenses of candidates were published and could be measured against a limit as to how much could be spent on \"political campaigns\". It laid down rules for the conduct of parliamentary candidates, including a strict limit on expenses. The limit was set at £710 for the first 2,000 voters in the candidate's constituency, and then £40 for every additional 1,000 voters. Each candidate was limited to just one party agent (though in exceptional circumstances the candidate did have the right to petition parliament for more). Strict record keeping was required as proof that expenses were not being exceeded. Poorer men could also become parliamentary candidates and under the Act stiff penalties were imposed on those breaking it such as heavy fines and imprisonment.\n\nAlthough it did not entirely remove corruption from the voting system, it strengthened the Corrupt Practices Act 1854 and was aided by a number of disenfranchised, small boroughs.\n\nThe Parliamentary Elections Corrupt Practices Act 1885 clarified that an employer was legally permitted to give paid time off from work to allow employees to vote, so long as this was given equally to all voters and not along party lines.\n\nThe Act, except section 42, was repealed by the Representation of the People Act 1949 (c.68), ss.175 & 176(2)&(3) & Sch.9; and the Election Commissioners Act 1949 (c.90), s.21 & Sch.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1988390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988390", "title": "Rotuma Day", "text": "Rotuma Day\n\nRotuma Day is an annual celebration on the island of Rotuma, a Fijian dependency. It falls on May 13, the anniversary of the island's cession to the United Kingdom in 1881.\n\nAs there are more people of Rotuman descent outside Rotuma than on the island, celebrations are held in other centres besides Rotuma, with big events in Suva and Lautoka.\n\nThe 2005 events marked the 124th anniversary of the annexation of the island to the United Kingdom.\n\nSpeaking at the Suva celebration, Fiji's High Commissioner to Australia, Major Jioje Konrote, himself a Rotuman Islander, commended Rotumans living outside Rotuma for maintaining their links to their homelands. There are some two thousand people on Rotuma, with a further ten thousand Rotumans in metropolitan Fiji.\n\nJoji Kotobalavu, Chief Executive of the Prime Minister's office, told Rotumans that their island would always be a special part of Fiji, recognized alongside the fourteen provinces. He commended them for their disproportionate achievements and contributions towards the development of Fiji as a country, while Labour Minister Kenneth Zinck paid tribute to the many Rotumans to have distinguished themselves in the fields of education, medicine, business, and society.\n"}
{"id": "1988401", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988401", "title": "UEFA Women's Euro 2005", "text": "UEFA Women's Euro 2005\n\nThe 2005 UEFA Women's Championship, also referred to as UEFA Women's Euro 2005, was a football tournament for women held from 5 June to 19 June 2005 in Lancashire, England and Cheshire, England. The UEFA Women's Championship is a regular tournament involving European national teams from countries affiliated to UEFA, the European governing body, who have qualified for the competition. The competition aims to determine which national women's team is the best in Europe.\n\nGermany won the competition for the fourth consecutive tournament, and the sixth time overall (including one win in the predecessor tournament, the \"European Competition for Representative Women's Teams\"). Their championship win was the last for coach Tina Theune-Meyer, who months earlier had announced her retirement effective at the end of the tournament. In her nine years in charge of Germany, they won three European titles, two bronze medals in the Olympics, and the 2003 World Cup.\n\nEight national teams participated – seven of which qualified from earlier stages, plus England, which received an automatic berth as the host nation. They were split into two groups of four: Group A and Group B. Each team in a group played each other once, with the top two teams in each group progressing to the semi-finals. The winner faced the runner-up of the other group in a play-off, with the winner of each semi-final advancing to the final to determine the champion.\n\n\n\nA qualifying round ran from 22 March to 3 October 2004. The teams which were entered played in a group stage, with the winners advancing to the final, and the runners-up being given the chance of qualification through a play-off. England, as the host nation, qualified automatically for the tournament. This was the first time in which the hosts qualified automatically for the final tournament.\n\nThe following teams were eliminated at this stage: \n\n\nThree teams were also eliminated in play-offs for the tournament:\n\n\nMore information on the qualification format at UEFA.com\n\nFor a list of all squads that played in the final tournament, see 2005 UEFA Women's Championship squads\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nTop two teams in each group advanced to the semi-finals\n\nNote:\n----\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1988405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988405", "title": "Bribie Island", "text": "Bribie Island\n\nBribie Island is the smallest and most northerly of three major sand islands forming the coastline sheltering the northern part of Moreton Bay, Queensland, Australia. The others are Moreton Island and North Stradbroke Island. Bribie Island is long, and at its widest. Archibald Meston believed that the name of the island came from a corruption of a mainland word for it, \"Boorabee\". meaning 'koala bear'.\n\nBribie Island hugs the coastline and tapers to a long spit at its most northern point near Caloundra, and is separated from the mainland by Pumicestone Passage. The ocean side of the island is somewhat sheltered from prevailing winds by Moreton Island and associated sand banks and has only a small surf break. The lee side is calm, with white sandy beaches in the south.\n\nMost of the island is uninhabited national park () and forestry plantations. The southern end of the island has been intensively urbanised as part of the Moreton Bay Region, the main suburbs being Bongaree, Woorim, Bellara and Banksia Beach. A bridge from Sandstone Point on the mainland was completed in 1963.\n\nBuckley's Hole, at the southern tip of the island, is an important bird habitat and refuge.\n\nCrossing to southern part of the island from the mainland via the bridge, the first suburb to be encountered is Bellara. The other four suburbs in the southern half of the island are Woorim (about away on the island's 'surf side'), Bongaree at the southern end of the island, on the 'calm side' or 'passage side' and Banksia Beach and White Patch at the northern end of the populated area, also on the 'passage side'. Two other localities, Welsby and Bribie Island North, make up the undeveloped northern part of the island.\n\nBribie Island North is part of the Sunshine Coast Region while all of the other suburbs on the island are part of the Moreton Bay Region.\n\nBribie Island Coaches operates a bus service around the Island as well as a route which runs to Caboolture and Morayfield via Ningi and Pebble Beach. In August 2007 an alternative route, via Beachmere and Pebble Beach, was introduced. The service to Caboolture is timed to connect with trains to and from Brisbane.\n\nThere are many types of wildlife present on the island. Kangaroos, wallabies, emus, various snake species, green tree frogs and dingos can often be seen venturing from the national park into the surrounding suburbs.\n\nPumicestone Passage, located between the island and the mainland, is a protected marine park that provides habitat for dugongs, turtles and dolphins. There are also extensive mangrove forests in this area. \nEucalypt forests, banksias and heathlands are the predominant vegetation elsewhere.\n\nBribie Island is home to around 350 species of bird. This includes a range of honeyeater species, lorikeets, waterbirds and birds of prey. Flying foxes (also called fruit bats) visit the area, along with several species of small insect-eating bats. Flying foxes are important pollinators and seed dispersers while the insect-eating bats help control mosquito and other insect populations.\n\nBuckley's Hole, at the southern tip of the island, was declared an environmental park in 1992.\n\nThe island seems particularly prone to instances of bee swarming.\n\nBribie Island National Park covers , nearly a third of the total area of the island. There is a common misconception that the national park covers most of the non-inhabited area, but in fact most of the centre of the island consists of conifer plantations closed to public access. Formerly leased to CSR Timber, the Queensland Government is currently re-planting around of this area through its DPI Forestry arm. Much of the rest has been developed for housing.\n\nIn 2009 the Queenslands National Parks and Wildlife Service (QNPWS) used imported blocks of rock to prevent access to roads and tracks leading into the national park forcing all vehicle access to the park to be via the Beach Access Track at Woorim or the Ranger Station at Whitepatch. All access to the national park now requires a permit to be purchased. Local residents were threatened by letter with fines of up to $16,000 by QNPWS in 2009 for walking domestic animals within the park.\n\nThe inhabitants of Bribie Island at the time they were encountered by Matthew Flinders in H.M. colonial sloop Norfolk in 1799 were the Djindubari people. broadly part of the 'Kabi' or more correctly Gubbi Gubbi people of South-East Queensland. Meston recorded the pre-contact population of Aboriginal people as 600–1,000, but by 1891 none remained on the Island and only four lived on the mainland.\n\nThe comparatively rich coastal country allowed permanent residence. Natural resources of land and sea were abundant and harvested according to the seasons. Winter mullet schooled from May to July. Dolphins were trained to herd the fish into waiting nets and spears. Winter was the best season for bream, followed by tailor in September and October. In summer mud crabs and oysters were plentiful and dugong were hunted. Summer whiting and flathead were speared or netted. Bungwall Fern was gathered for its starchy roots all year round. Kangaroo, eels and carpet snakes were rich in protein and fat. The dominant shellfish used as food was the oyster known today as the Sydney Rock Oyster known locally as tibir, at that time growing naturally on the seabeds. The oyster middens, many metres thick, were plundered by early settlers for lime. A significant midden site, now lost, was located not far from Bongaree jetty. It contained discarded shells, marsupial bones and stone tools. The biggest of the oyster middens was at White Patch, where dugong were also plentiful. The Ugari (pipi) on the coastal beaches was also eaten.\n\nLieutenant James Cook sighted the Glass House Mountains west of the Island on Thursday 17 May 1770 while sailing up the east coast of Australia in HM Bark Endeavour. He called these hills the Glass Houses as the reflections and the shape of the hills reminded him of the glass manufacturing houses back in England. James Cook named the area Glass House Bay and was the first European to name this stretch of water.\n\nOn 16 July 1799 Captain Matthew Flinders left Glass House Bay about east of the shore in the \"Norfolk\". He sailed south-west between Moreton Island and the mainland parallel to the southern shore of Bribie Island until spotting an opening in the low western shore. He anchored at 8:15am and transferred with a small crew and Bongaree to a smaller craft. He landed on Bribie Island unaware that it wasn't the mainland and met a small group of Aborigines who had gathered on the beach. Although Bongaree didn't speak the same dialect as the local aborigines the meeting was peaceful until one attempted to remove Flinders' hat. Flinders refused and the Europeans and Bongaree returned to their boat. As they left the man who had tried to remove Flinders' hat threw a spear that missed the small boat and crew. Flinders fired his musket at the men on shore and wounded the man who had thrown the spear. The Aborigines fled the beach. Flinders named the southern shore and site of the confrontation \"Point Skirmish\". There is an area on the modern map marked Skirmish Point but should not be confused with the actual place of the incident which is known as South Point.\n\nFlinders needed to repair leaks in his boat and pulled it ashore some north of the area he had the incident with the locals for those repairs. Once his boat was repaired he explored the mainland side of the passage and scaled Mt. Beerburrum to get a view of the area. He spent 15 days in the region.\nIt was not until some time later it was determined that this was an island and the changing of the name of the waterway between Bribie Island and the mainland was made at some other point.\n\nThe origin of the name \"Bribie\" are believed to be linked to a convict named \"Bribie\" or \"Breiby\" who gathered basket-making material on the island in the 1830s. In his memoirs, Tom Petrie wrote:\n\nIn those days there was a prisoner among the others who made baskets for the Government called \"Bribie, the basket maker.\" He was not chained, and was allowed to go about in a boat to get cane from the scrubs for his work. ... It was from this man Bribie, my father thinks, that Bribie Island got its name. He cannot remember distinctly on this point, but has some vague recollection of a connection between the man and the island – whether he was blown ashore there, or what, he does not know.\" \nIn 1890, the Queensland Aboriginal Protection Association established a mission station on Bribie Island. A school and a teacher's residence was established, with two dormitories designed to accommodate 20 residents. By September 1892, suffering financial difficulties and with the site described by Archibald Meston as \"mainly ti-tree swamps\", the mission was abandoned and residents moved to Myora Mission on North Stradbroke Island.\n\nBribie Island fortifications were constructed from 1939 to 1943 as part of the defence of South East Queensland during the Second World War, and to provide artillery training for Australian soldiers. Other fortifications throughout Moreton Bay during the war, included at Caloundra, on Moreton Island at Cowan Cowan Point and Rous. Together with the existing installations at Fort Lytton, they provided a coordinated series of defensive batteries for Moreton Bay.\n\nIn February 1939, six months before the start of WW2, a review of the defences of Moreton Bay called for two 6 inch Mark XI guns at north Bribie.\n\nSoon after Australia declared war on Germany on 3 September 1939, 6 inch guns previously carried by the World War I-era cruiser were taken to the present location of Fort Bribie () to guard the northwest channel, which ran close to the shore near Caloundra, across the bay in a southeasterly direction towards Moreton Island, and then southwesterly towards the mouth of the river, forming a Z-shaped route. The most effective sites for guns were the closest points to the channel bends.\n\nThe mounting and placement of the guns was hopelessly inadequate and according to Major General Robert E Jackson, Officer in Charge of Northern Command in July 1940, Fort Bribie was \"no value from a defence point of view\" and had to be fixed.\n\nBefore this could happen an argument about the location broke out, costings being sought for both Bribie and Caloundra. It was argued Caloundra was higher, better equipped and cheaper to build, whereas Bribie was flat, hot, infested with mosquitos and sandflies, had no freshwater, no bridge and would be much more expensive. The decision came down to Fort Bribie's ability to cover both entrances to the northwest channel, while Caloundra could only cover the most northerly entrance. The guns had a range of about .\n\nColonel JS Whitelaw designed the layout of the fort on Bribie and recommended its completion, receiving the go ahead by early 1942. By April—hastened by the December 1941 attacks by the Japanese forces on Pearl Harbour, Malaya, Hong Kong and Singapore—construction of the gun emplacements was almost complete. The construction cost of all of Fort Bribie's concrete structures was ₤55,000, about $2.5 million in 2010 dollars.\n\nOn 19 February 1942, Darwin was bombed in two raids killing at least 243 people and wounding between 300 and 400 more. By November 1943 Darwin was bombed 64 times, with other towns also attacked including Townsville. The ferocity and success of the attacks suddenly created a very real dread in the Queensland population.\n\nIn July 1942 after failing to take Port Moresby by sea in the Battle of the Coral Sea, the Japanese landed on Papua New Guinea's north coast and moved south, capturing Kokoda on 29 July. This was the first time any Australian territory had been occupied by an enemy force.\n\nReinforcements were sent to Fort Bribie and Fort Cowan Cowan, strengthening the existing defences at the two forts. A number of guns from the First World War were provided to upgrade Australian coastal defences, and new forts were constructed during 1942-43 at Skirmish Point on south Bribie Island and Rous on Moreton Island. The Skirmish Point Battery at Woorim contained two fixed gun emplacements on Panama mounts.\n\nThe Pacific War also brought the Americans soldiers.\n\nIt was widely believed at the time that the American and Australian armed forces and governments had conspired on a plan to abandon Australia north of Brisbane to the Japanese in case of invasion. The plan, known as the Brisbane Line was never official policy, but the alleged strategy gained support after General Douglas MacArthur referred to it during a press conference in March 1943, where he also coined the term 'Brisbane Line'.\n\nMany historians of the WW2 period on Bribie island refer to Brisbane Line and draw it from Fort Bribie due west to Charleville, then south-west to a point just west of Adelaide, as recounted by Warwick Outram in Bribie Memories 2nd edition 2009 . George H. Johnston, War Correspondent for the \"Argus\" newspaper was present when MacArthur mentioned the Brisbane Line on 16 March 1943, but later clarified the matter by writing it was Gen. MacArthur who abandoned the Brisbane Line concept and decided that the battle for Australia should be fought in New Guinea.\n\nAt Fort Bribie itself, two mine control huts were used by Royal Australian Navy during 1942 and 1943, known as RAN 2. These monitored and controlled the guard indicator loops and mine loops set in the North West Channel. The indicator loops relied on a moving magnet or any large mass of metal, which naturally acquires magnetic field, to induce a current in a stationary loop of wire. If a submarine was detected by the guard loop, the operator would wait until there was also a swing mine loop before detonating the mines by sending a current down the mine loop. RAN 2 was moved to Cowan Cowan on Moreton Island in September 1943. When the mines in Moreton Bay were decommission at the end of the war, six were missing. One was found at Tewantin in 1945.\n\nThe mines weighed and were buoyant, so needed to be moored with sinkers, up to below the surface. Every 5 minutes hour perturbations due to the tides known as \"perts\" had to be recorded. Daily and weekly tests were carried out on all equipment. In three years of operation, the mines were never detonated.\n\nAnother minefield with guard loop built in 1942 protected Pearl Channel and Main Channel south of Bribie Island. The guard loops ran from the Loop Control Hut at the end of North Street, just north of Woorim to Combouyuro Point, Moreton Island. Three Harbour Defence Asdics, sea-bed mounted submarine detection devices now known as sonar, were position down-channel from the guard loops, as a second means of detection.\n\nThe Bribie Island library opened in 1976 with a major refurbishment in 2016.\n\nBribie Island has a number of heritage-listed sites, including:\n\nFederally, Bribie Island is contained within the Division of Longman which since 2016 has been represented by Susan Lamb MP, a member of the Australian Labor Party. Rick Williams is the Australian Labor Member of the Queensland Legislative Assembly for Pumicestone which includes Bribie Island within its electoral boundaries (2012) while the current Moreton Bay Regional Council Division 1 councillor is Brooke Savige (2016).\n\nThe artist Ian Fairweather lived on Bribie Island for many years in self-inflicted poverty. A park on the island is named in his honour at the corner of First Ave and Hunter St Bongaree.\n\nBrisbane Broncos players Jack Reed, an English representative, and Matt Gillett, a State of Origin representative grew up on Bribie Island.\n\nBribie Island's main shopping centre is at Bellara, comprising a Woolworths supermarket and a Target store, as well as a number of nationally known companies such as Telstra, Rockmans, Priceline Pharmacy, Nextra Newsagency, Liquorland, Brumby's Bakery, EB Games, Flight Centre, Millers, Prouds, Donut King, Mister Minit, Spendless Shoes, Strandbags and Gloria Jean's Coffees. The island also has an additional Woolworths supermarket at Banksia Beach, as well as an Aldi store and two large IGA supermarkets located at Bongaree and Woorim. Traditional \"strip\" development of shopping facilities around the island provides a comprehensive array of retail businesses such as hardware stores, medical centres, newsagents, chemists and food outlets.\n\nThere are two large, modern hotels—the Bribie Island Hotel at Bellara and the Blue Pacific Hotel on the 'surf side' of the island at Woorim. Residents and visitors often prefer to visit local clubs such as the large and award-winning Bribie Island Citizens and RSL Club, the two bowls clubs at Bongaree, the Surf Life Saving Club at Woorim on the 'surf side', and the small Solander Lakes Bowls Club at Banksia Beach. There is a well-established golf club at Woorim, with a second golf course and club house recently completed at Banksia Beach as part of the Pacific Harbour development. A small twin cinema was established in 1997 on McMahon Street.\nThe existing bridge was the longest, pre-stressed, pre-cast concrete bridge in Australia at the time of its construction. With a length of 2736 feet (831.4 m), the bridge cost $716,321 and was officially opened on Saturday 19 October 1963 by the then premier of Queensland Frank Nicklin.\nAn additional bridge onto Bribie Island has been proposed, and an official 'Bribie Island Bridge Corridor Study' was conducted in 2015 by the Queensland Department of Transport and Main Roads that supports this proposal. The study recommends the new bridge be built north of the existing bridge, however the anticipated date of commencement has not yet been announced.\n\nA desalination plant has been proposed for Bribie Island by the National/Liberal Party (LNP). The previous (up to 2012) Labor government decided it was not a good place to build a Desal Plant. Some residents are opposed to the plant due to environmental reasons, however others see the plant as a benefit to the island.\n\nThere are two primary schools: Bribie Island State School at Bongaree, and Banksia Beach State School, and one high school: Bribie Island State High School. Both primary schools are governed by a 'School Enrolment Management Plan', and only accept students who live within their designated catchment areas.\n\nBribie Island State School was opened on 4 February 1924. Prior to the opening of the Bribie Island State High School in 1989 secondary students were transported to Caboolture. The 2006 enrolment at the high school was 954 students. Bribie Island State High School presently has over 1,000 students. Banksia Beach State School opened in 1992. Student numbers are continuing to rise annually and are now over 1,000 students.\n\nThe Moreton Bay Regional Council operates a library service at 1 Welsby Parade, Bongaree. It also operates the Bribie Island Aquatic Leisure Centre on Goodwin Drive. Bribie Jetty at Bongaree is a popular recreation and fishing spot.\n\nAccording to the Australian Bureau of Statistics there were 16,209 persons resident on the island in 2006. Of these, 7796 (48%) were males and 8413 (52%) were females. Of the total population 1.6% were Indigenous persons compared with 2.3% for all of Australia.\n\n13.6% of the population on the island were children aged between 0–14 years and 50.3% were persons aged 55 years and over. The median age of persons was 55 years, compared with 37 years for all of Australia. 75.7% stated they were born in Australia. Other places of birth included were: England 6.6%, New Zealand 4.0%, Germany 0.9%, Netherlands 0.8% and Scotland 0.8%. The median weekly household income was $609, compared with $1,027 for all of Australia.\n\nIn 2004 a reality television series called \"The Hot House\" that aired on Network Ten was filmed on Bribie Island. The show entailed 14 couples building a house together knowing that only one couple would win the house and a number of prizes, including a boat, which came with it. On the final night of filming locals were given free tickets to enter the area which had been fenced off for filming.\n\n\"The Enigmatic Mr Phelps\", a novel by Canada-based English international crime writer David B. Green, was partly set in Banksia Beach during the winter of 2004. It includes many references to the island and the surrounding area. Part two of the two-part novel, \"Berlin by Christmas\", features an opening chapter based entirely on the island. The fictional character of \"Phelps\" is often confused with the real life of the author.\n\nNick Earls' 1996 novel \"After January\" includes a description of a visit to the beach and the ruins of World War II battlements on the northern end of the island.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1988409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988409", "title": "Lasseter Highway", "text": "Lasseter Highway\n\nLasseter Highway is a fully sealed 244 kilometre highway in the Northern Territory of Australia. It connects Yulara, Kata Tjuta and Uluru east to the Stuart Highway at Erldunda. The highway is named after Lewis Hubert (Harold Bell) Lasseter, who claimed to have discovered a fabulously rich gold reef (Lasseter's Reef) west of Kata Tjuta.\n\n"}
{"id": "1988410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988410", "title": "Zeki Demirkubuz", "text": "Zeki Demirkubuz\n\nZeki Demirkubuz (born 1 October 1964 in Isparta, Turkey) is a contemporary Turkish film director, screenwriter, producer and film editor.\n\nDemirkubuz dropped out of high school, and started working in a textile workshop. Then, he worked as a street vendor for some time. After the 1980 coup d'état, he was imprisoned without trial for three years at the age of 17 for alleged communist activities, and was tortured. At the time, he was studying Communications Engineering at Istanbul University. Following his graduation, he became involved with movie making. After working as an assistant director, he established his own production company, called \"Mavi Film\". Uncompromising and fiercely independent, Demirkubuz controls almost every aspect of his films, making few concessions to prevailing trends.\n\nHe started in the movie business as the assistant of director Zeki Ökten in 1986. He made his first film, \"\"C Blok\"\" in 1994. He was able to manage his projects with very low budgets due to the experience he gained while working as an assistant.\n\nSome of his films are \"\"Masumiyet\"\" (1997) which was shown at Venice Film Festival, and \"\"Üçüncü Sayfa\"\" (1999), also shown at many international film festivals like Locarno and Rotterdam. The films \"\"Yazgı\"\" (2001) and \"\"İtiraf\"\" (2001) included in his \"\"Mental Minefields: The Dark Tales\"\" trilogy [written by Zeki Demirkubuz] were shown at Cannes Film Festival's \"Uncompetitive section\". He made \"\"Bekleme Odası\"\" in 2003.\n\nDemirkubuz, refers to Dostoevsky in his cinematographic mentality. His scenarios grow on the ethical dilemmas of the human condition. He usually uses basic concepts, such as love, passion, self-sacrifice, and the absurdity of life and death.\n\nZeki Demirkubuz's \"Kader\" won \"The Best Film\" prize at 2006 Antalya Golden Orange Film Festival.\n\n"}
{"id": "1988411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988411", "title": "Jean Becquerel", "text": "Jean Becquerel\n\nJean Becquerel (5 February 1878 – 4 July 1953) was a French physicist, and son of Antoine-Henri Becquerel. He worked on the optical and magnetic properties of crystals, discovering the rotation of the plane of polarisation by a magnetic field. He also published a textbook on relativity. In 1909, he became the fourth in his family to occupy the physics chair at the Muséum National d'Histoire Naturelle, following in the footsteps of his father, his grandfather A. E. Becquerel and his great-grandfather Antoine César Becquerel.\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "1988412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988412", "title": "El Caco", "text": "El Caco\n\nEl Caco is a stoner rock band from Lillestrøm in Norway. \n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1988425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988425", "title": "Vicky Nguyen", "text": "Vicky Nguyen\n\nVicky Nguyen (born circa 1979) is a 14-time Emmy award-winning Vietnamese-American investigative journalist working with NBC News in New York.\nNguyen joined NBC News in April 2019 as the Investigative and Consumer correspondent. Her reporting has been seen on \"The Today Show\", \"3rd Hour Today\", \"Nightly News with Lester Holt\", \"NBC News Now\" and MSNBC.\n\nPrior to moving to New York, Nguyen worked for NBC Bay Area, KNTV in the San Francisco Bay Area. There, she served as a senior investigative reporter for the NBC Bay Area Investigative Unit and anchor of the Sunday evening news on NBC Bay Area. Before joining NBC Bay Area, Nguyen worked at various television stations in Florida, Nevada and Arizona.\n\nNguyen was born in Saigon, Vietnam.\nAt a very young age, she and her parents fled Vietnam as refugees. After two days, two nights and a Thai pirate attack on the open ocean, their boat landed on the coast of Malaysia, where Nguyen and her family stayed in a refugee camp for 14 months. At age 2, Nguyen immigrated into the United States. A family in Eugene, Oregon sponsored her family to America. She spent most of her childhood in San Jose and Santa Rosa, and became a U.S. citizen at age 10.\n\nNguyen started her career with Central Florida News 13 in Orlando, Florida. While there, she shot, wrote and edited her stories before delivering live reports. As Vicky wrote on her blog, \"I was a 'one man band.' I shot my own video on a 20 pound DVC Pro camera (and) carried my own 15 pound tripod.\" She then moved to ABC affiliate KOLO in Reno, Nevada as a nightside reporter and fill-in anchor. \n\nFollowing her time in Reno, Nguyen moved to Phoenix, Arizona to work with KSAZ. At KSAZ, she was able to hone her live and breaking news reporting covering national stories. Notable interviews include Alex Trebek, Tyra Banks, Shaquille O'Neal and Senator John McCain. Nguyen also had the opportunity to cover the Baseline Killer and Serial Shooter investigations while with KSAZ, which was the first instance in which two separate serial killers attacked the same city at the same time.\n\nShe returned to her Northern California roots in January 2007, and started working with NBC Bay Area as a freelance reporter. Shortly thereafter she was hired full-time, and worked as a special assignment reporter for KNTV. Nguyen was eventually promoted to anchor/senior investigative reporter with KNTV. While in that role, she worked closely with the NBC Bay Area Investigative Unit. According to her official NBC Bay Area bio,\nVicky's favorite part of her job is meeting people from diverse backgrounds and having the opportunity to tell stories that make a difference in how people view the world. Her most memorable interviews are with everyday people who share their inspirational stories.\n\nIn April of 2019, Nguyen moved from California to New York to accept a new role as an investigative and consumer correspondent for NBC News. Since joining NBC News Vicky has been featured on \"The Today Show\", \"3rd Hour Today\", \"Nightly News with Lester Holt\", \"NBC News Now\" and MSNBC, among others.\n\nVicky is a national Emmy award-winning reporter, recognized for outstanding investigative reporting for her series exposing Sysco Corporation's widespread practice of storing perishable food in unrefrigerated outdoor public storage sheds. She was honored with the 2019 duPont-Columbia award for \"Drivers Under Siege\" about the rise in violent attacks on Bay Area bus operators. Her work has also been recognized with the dupont-Columbia award, Scripps Howard award, Gerald Loeb Award, National Press Club award, Society of Professionals Journalists Sigma Delta Chi Award, 3 Gracie awards, 2 Clarion awards, 14 regional Emmy awards and 3 regional Murrow awards.\n\nIn addition, she has earned several awards from the Asian American Journalists Association (AAJA) and the Radio and Television News Directors Association (RTNDA).\n\nVicky is happily married with three daughters.\n\n"}
{"id": "1988431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988431", "title": "Buka Island", "text": "Buka Island\n\nBuka Island is the second largest island in the Autonomous Region of Bougainville, in eastern Papua New Guinea. It is in Buka Rural LLG of North Bougainville District, with the Autonomous Region's and district's capital city of Buka on the island.\n\nThe island is separated by the narrow Buka Passage from the northwestern coast of Bougainville Island, and has an area of approximately 500 km².\n\nBuka was first occupied by humans in the Paleolithic period, with evidence for human habitation at Kilu Cave some 30,000 years ago.\n\nBritish, Australian and American whaling ships visited the island in the nineteenth century for food, water and wood. The first on record was the \"Eliza\" in 1806, and the last known visit was by the \"Palmetto\" in 1881.\n\nThe present inhabitants speak languages that are from the eastward push of Austronesian languages of the Lapita Culture complex, some 2,700 years ago.\n\nIn 1899 the German Empire laid claim to the island, annexing it into German New Guinea.\n\nBuka Island was occupied by Japanese troops during World War II, and it was the site of important Japanese airfields that were considered strategic by the allies. Although the island was bombed by allied air forces and warships, allied armies never fought in Buka. After holding out for years on poor supplies, the Japanese surrendered in 1945 when allied troops were approaching the Selau peninsula on nearby Bougainville.\n\nThe economy of Buka can be divided into a very small urban component and the village sector. The village sector is characterised by subsistence farming, primarily of sweet potato as a staple food, and the production of copra and cocoa as cash crops by family-sized units and small cooperative work groups. Vanilla and tropical spice crops have made a halting progress, and remain very minor sources of income for villagers.\n\nThe urban sector at Buka Passage includes the Bougainville representatives of major New Guinean business, such as Bank South Pacific, CPL (which purchases cash crops), Agmark, presence of the Autonomous Bougainville Government, which is based in Kubu, near Buka Passage. There are a number of small businesses in the island.\n\nBuka Airport is the principal airport in the Bougainville area. It has scheduled service to Rabaul, Lae, and Port Moresby.\n\nBuka is a relatively flat island some long in the north-south axis, and up to wide in the west-east axis. It is separated from Bougainville by the Buka Passage, a narrow, deep and very fast flowing tidal channel about wide. The east coast is the windward side for most of the year, and is characterised by a coastal cliff that rises close to the ocean, leaving only a narrow and often rocky beach. A coral reef rings the entire island, it is narrow on the east coast, which is battered by oceanic winds and large waves; it spreads out into lagoons on the west coast.\n\nAlong the western coast there is a small mountain range, named the Richard Parkinson Range, after the German planter and explorer. The highest peak in this range is Mt. Bei, which is in elevation. The range runs between Buka and Carola Harbour. The few larger rivers on the island flow from headwaters in the range's interior. The largest is the Gagan River.\n\nThe rest of the island is a large raised limestone formation. It rises inland, and along the cliffs at the eastern coast. The cliffs correspond to the reef of an ancient lagoon.\n\nThe limestone morphology means that there is very little surface water available throughout most of the island. This poses a problem for the island's residents, especially during the dry season, when water is collected by villagers from 'kukubui' springs along the foot of the cliffs.\n\nThe island is divided into five Autonomous Bougainville Government electorates: \n\nEach of these electorates has its own local government, known as Councils of Elders.\n\nBuka is the main city on Buka Island, and the present-day capital of the Autonomous Region of Bougainville. It is located on the northern coast of Buka Passage. On old maps it is named 'Chinatown.' The land the city occupies was formally known as Leta. There has been considerable expansion of the city in recent years, and also in nearby Kubu, location of the Autonomous Bougainville Government Parliament, and Hutjena, the location of the national high school serving Buka.\n\nThe main island of Buka is occupied by two distinct language groups, Solos and Halia. The latter is split into two dialects in Buka Island: Hanahan Halia spoken along the east coast from Buka Passage (known locally as Ieta) to Tohatsi and Haku, spoken in the north coast villages from Elutupan to Lontis. A third dialect of Halia, known as Selau is spoken in the peninsula of the same name in north Bougainville. Halia and Haku speakers easily understand each other, Selau is a more distant dialect. Solos is a distinct language within the North Bougainvillean Austronesian family, and Halia and Solos are not mutually intelligible.\n\nOn the west coast of Buka there are five small inhabited islands that have close cultural and linguistic ties to the main island of Buka. From north to south these are Pororan and nearby Hitau, Petats and Yamen and Matsungan. The language of these islands is distinct from Halia and Solos, but resembles Halia more closely than it does Solos. This language is referred to as Petats in the linguistic literature, and as West Coast in Buka.\n\nAll languages spoken by the indigenous population of Buka are part of the North Bougainvillean Austronesian group of languages. They show some affinity to the languages of Nissan Island and New Ireland and are part of the Melanesian branch of the Austronesian language family.\n\nContemporary Bukas often use Tok Pisin as a lingua franca between the three main language groups.\n\nAlthough separated into three or four different language groups, Buka society shows very similar traits throughout the island. Traditional Buka society conformed to a broad pattern of Melanesian horticultural organisation. Coastal (or 'tasi' – beach) villagers, namely the Haku, Halia and West Coast speakers, planted taro, kept chickens, fished and collected shellfish. The Solos fished in Buka's rivers and traded forest products and taro with the Halia and West Coast islanders. As in most Pacific Islands, pigs were, and still are, extremely important and are seldom eaten except in the course of rituals and formal feasts. The cuscus (a type of marsupial) and various birds also supplement the diet.\n\nDescent is matrilineal and the kinship terminology is based on a Hawaiian system. Buka kinship does not prescribe a post-marital residence, but it is generally preferred that a young couple live first with the husband's maternal relatives, and later move to the wife's land. The reason for this is that though a man will require assistance from his clansfolk, his children belong to his wife's clan.\n\nThere are inherited positions of authority for men, or chieftainships called tsunono (in Halia, or close cognates in the other languages). Women can also be 'chiefs', known as teitahol in Halia and tuhikauu in Haku. Traditionally, women chiefs have little overt authority, although they are extremely well respected. Women have a sacred value, rather than secular power. This is changing somewhat under the influence of NGOs and also because of women's leadership role in the peace movement during the Bougainville Civil War.\n\nAlthough tsunono are in theory genealogically determined, in practice the rule is often broken. If a man is not a good speaker, or if his brother is an exceptional one, the body of tsunono can recognise him as a 'mausman' (spokesman in Tok Pisin) or tsonpepeito (guardian in Halia).\n\nTsunono do not wield arbitrary power. They must represent the interests of their clan. Although the clan cannot (easily) remove a tsunono if he fails to do this, they can make it very difficult for him to mobilise the land and labour resources required to be an effective political agent.\n\nEach sub-clan has its own clan house, known as a tsuhana. These buildings are extremely important in Buka political organisation, they are public buildings in which feasts are conducted for funerals, memorials and reconciliations. Typically, a clan or village will meet to discuss political affairs within the tsuhana. Large wooden slit-gongs are kept there, and struck to call meetings, announce funerals, deaths and other village events.\n\nTsuhana are associated with the body of the tsunono. Striking the post of a tsuhana in anger is said to be equivalent to assaulting the chief, and requires expiation by the sacrifice of a pig. The construction of a tsuhana is an elaborate process, though the actual building is usually quite humble. Each step in the construction requires the sacrifice of pigs, and this in turn requires mobilisation of the sub-clan and its allies. A tsuhana must be built for a tsunono chief to be regarded as powerful and authoritative.\n\nIn general, tsunono and tsuhana have authority over a sub-clan, or hamlet sized territory encompassing between five and twenty nuclear families. There is, however, a hierarchy of tsunono. Typically several tsuhana will combine under the leadership of a preeminent clan, and the leader of this clan will be called tsunono mal. This relationship is not irrevocable, and requires the assent of other tsunono. It is not possible, or at least it is not easy, for a tsunono to conquer and force other tsuhana to submit to his own.\n\nThe most powerful chief is called munihil. This chief has in theory power over clans of a moiety class in a district encompassing perhaps several villages. Such a chief will not be the largest and most powerful landholder, and will rarely have a strong genealogical claim over all the villages. Sometimes such a chief will not even be a local, but a preeminent leader drawn from a distant area. His claim to leadership is not his own, but derives from the collective agreement of the tsunono who 'put him forward' so that he can represent them.\n\nThere are four moiety classes in all Buka societies – Nakaripa, Naboen, Nakas and Natasi. Nakaripa and Naboen are represented by totemic emblems the fowl and the eagle, while Nakas is represented by a dog and there is no consensus as to the totem of Natasi, but kotoiana, a kind of sea hawk, is often suggested, along with pue, the froth of the sea break. Nakaripa and Naboen are prestige classes and the overwhelming majority of the population will claim to belong to one or the other, even if they are genealogically members of the low prestige classes Nakas and Natasi. Traditionally, the latter carried out the prestige classes' dirty work; more recently these groups have become independent ('bruklus') and assert themselves as 'clans in their own right'.\n\nWhile Buka will call their moiety categories 'clans' in Tok Pisin and English, this is not sociologically accurate and the word is actually used in two different senses, corresponding to what anthropologists would recognise as moieties and clans. (This is also a feature of the Halia language, the Halia term in question is pinaposa.) There are clans, which trace common descent and will occasionally act as corporate entities. These clans are land-holding groups, though often clans will be represented by sub-clans in different villages, or even in different linguistic areas.\n\nBy contrast, the moiety classes encompass many different clans. Moiety classification is important in conflict resolution and in the organisation of authority. For a man to succeed his mother's brother as tsunono, the 'opposite' moiety (always either Nakaripa or Naboen) will hatsunono (make tsunono). During reconciliation ceremonies, the 'opposite' moiety will make speeches setting conditions on the reconciling parties and will preside over sacrifices.\n\nTraditional Buka religious beliefs revolve around establishing good relationships between the living and the spirits of the dead as well as wild and clan spirits (known as lilihane) which are believed to inhabit every named geographical feature. (Large rocks and tiny pools of water usually have their own names, as do individual passages in the reef that rings the island). These spirits can have positive or negative attitudes to humans, or can ignore them entirely. Spirits are powerful, but not all-knowing or all powerful. (For instance, when a new person is introduced to an area where a powerful, potentially harmful spirit dwells, he or she must say \"it's me again, I'm coming to wash just like I did yesterday!\") Spirits govern success in horticulture, fighting and, of course, all things sexual.\n\nCommunication with the spirits is established by means of a sacrificial fire. Such fires are most often lit to celebrate funeral feasts for the recently dead. No fire is lit at the time of burial. The day following burial the clan most closely related to the dead will light a fire and offer some cooked fish and taro. The elders of the clan will speak to the fire, addressing the ancient ancestors and asking that they receive the new spirit and aid the living in the road ahead. Aid is needed, for now the clan must quickly acquire several pigs to kill at subsequent feasts marking five days and then ten days since burial. These feasts are more public and their successful organisation is very important for a sub-clan's prestige. These feasts can be quite draining on a clan's finances, since pigs are in short supply in Buka. The spirits will aid in this, and help the clan achieve cohesion.\n\nThroughout Buka, as in most other areas within Melanesia, there is belief in sorcery, called 'matuna' or 'tsora'. There are two kinds of sorcery: one kind was traditionally used by the chief or more exactly by the chief's agents, to punish transgressors in the village. This sorcery was public and the paraphernalia used to effect it was displayed at the tsuhana as a sign of high rank. Contemporary sorcery is understood to be a different kind. It is performed in secret, and usually believed to have been bought by the supposed sorcerer abroad; it is itself a shameful transgression. The most common motivation for suspicions of sorcery relate to unequal economic or political success, which causes 'jealousy'.\n\nToday the overwhelming majority of Buka are Christians, divided into a Roman Catholic majority and a large minority of United Church (Methodist), as well as many different Pentecostal and evangelical sects.\n\nBuka Christianity, especially the Catholic denomination, has a strong tendency to assimilate indigenous and Christian beliefs. The islanders refer to this as 'translation'. God is called Sunahan, a personal name that is sometimes glossed as 'he who plants villages like new shoots of taro', although this is a folk etymology. Sunahan is a creator figure from Buka tradition, and the stories concerning him are secret. In some areas, Jesus is assimilated to Bariosa, Geriana or Matanatsil, hero-figures whose stories are told throughout northern Bougainville and as far as New Ireland. Saint Mary is understood as a chiefly woman, a teitahol or tuhikau. In October, there are processions where statues of St. Mary tour the island. The statues are followed by women carrying traditional women's worksacks, because a chiefly woman ought to travel with taro and betelnut.\n\nBuka is famous in the anthropological literature as the site of a large and militant social movement called the Hahalis Welfare Society, as well as several other political and religious movements. These are often termed 'cargo cults' by their opponents, although the utility of this term is a matter of dispute amongst anthropologists and historians of the Pacific.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1988447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988447", "title": "Free Patriotic Movement", "text": "Free Patriotic Movement\n\nThe Free Patriotic Movement (FPM) (, ), also known as the Aounist party (, ), is a Lebanese political party, led by Gebran Bassil.\nThe FPM party promotes the rights of Lebanese expatriates and a relatively high minimum wage. The party's support base is overwhelmingly from Lebanon's Christian community.\n\nThe Free Patriotic movement follows a lebanese Nationalism ideology.\n\nFor many years, while Aoun was exiled in Paris, he led the FPM from abroad. He returned to Lebanon on 7 May 2005 after the Cedar Revolution forced the withdrawal of the Syrian forces, and then contested the legislative elections held in late May in early June although it placed him on the head of the largest Christian group of deputies.\n\nAoun also contested the Cedar Revolution which itself gave him the opportunity to come back to Lebanon.\n\nAt the time of the 2005 elections, the FPM came up with a detailed political program which contained economic and political reform plans and gained the support of many Lebanese Christians. The FPM won 21 seats in the parliament, and formed the second biggest bloc in the Lebanese Parliament. Being the leading Christian bloc after the election, it joined the March 8 Alliance.\n\nIn 2006, the FPM signed a memorandum of understanding with Hezbollah organizing their relation and discussing Hezbollah's disarmament, given some conditions. The second and third conditions for disarmament were the return of Lebanese prisoners from Israeli jails and the elaboration of a defense strategy to protect Lebanon from the Israeli threat. The agreement also discussed the importance of having normal diplomatic relations with Syria and the request for information about the Lebanese political prisoners in Syria and the return of all political prisoners and diaspora in Israel.\n\nOn 1 December 2006, Free Patriotic Movement leader Michel Aoun declared to a crowd of protesters that the current government of Lebanon was unconstitutional, claiming that the government had \"made corruption a daily affair\" and called for the resignation on the government. Hundred of thousands of supporters of this party, Amal Movement, and Hezbollah, according to the Internal Security Forces (ISF), gathered at Downtown Beirut trying to force Fouad Siniora to abdicate.\n\nOn 11 July 2008, FPM members, Issam Abu Jamra as deputy-prime minister, Gebran Bassil as minister of telecommunications, and Mario Aoun as minister of social affairs were appointed to the cabinet. It was the Movement's first participation in the Lebanese Government.\n\nDespite the strong media and political war against the Free Patriotic Movement, the results of the 2009 Elections granted the FPM 27 parliamentary seats. The FPM's bloc is the second largest in the Lebanese parliament. The FPM gained 7 more seats than in the 2005 elections, earning at least triple the number of deputies of any other Christian-based bloc in the parliament due to geographical distribution. The total seats won by the March 8 alliance were 57 out of 128, which led to a defeat for the FPM.\n\nIn November 2009, the Free Patriotic Movement nominated five ministers to join the first government headed by Saad Hariri. The five ministers included:\n\n\nThe Free Patriotic Movement launched its own broadcasting channel (OTV) on 20 July 2007, and their own radio station called Sawt Al Mada (English:Voice of Scope) on 1 June 2009.\n\nIn June 2011, the Change and Reform bloc led by Aoun nominated eleven ministers to join the second government headed by Najib Mikati, gaining more than double the share they had in the former government\nThe eleven ministers are:\n\nMinisters with Portfolios:\n\nMinisters without Portfolios:\n\nIn February 2014, the Change and Reform bloc led by Michel Aoun nominated four ministers to join the national unity government headed by Prime Minister Tammam Salam. The Free Patriotic Movement had two ministers:\n\n\nOn 17 August 2015, Minister Gebran Bassil was chosen by General Michel Aoun as the new leader for the Free Patriotic Movement. No elections were done because it could have possibly led to fracturing the party, and so Alain Aoun stepped down from candidacy in order for Bassil to be assigned as the new leader.\nOn February 28, the party elected his political bureau members:\nMireille Aoun,\nNaji Hayek,\nJimmy Jabbour,\nRindala Jabbour,\nNaaman Mrad,\nZiad Najjar.\n\nLebanese Forces (LF) leader Samir Geagea and Free Patriotic Movement (FPM) Founder MP Michel Aoun turned a historic page in intra-Christian relations when the former March 14 presidential nominee officially endorsed on Monday Aoun's candidacy for the presidency.\n\n\"I announce after long consideration, discussions and deliberations between members of the executive body of the Lebanese Forces, our endorsement of the candidacy of [former] General Michel Aoun for the presidency,\" Geagea said in joint news conference with his March 8 rival.\n\nSpeaking from the LF's headquarters in Maarab where he had met with Aoun shortly before the news conference, Geagea read a 10-point understanding that summarized the key points of the Declaration of Intent struck between the LF and FPM in June.\n\nThe commitment to the implementation of the Taif Accord, the need to stop the flow of arms and militants across the Lebanese-Syrian border in both directions, the ratification of a new electoral law and compliance with international resolutions were among the key points agreed upon between the LF and FPM, Geagea said.\n\nAs he read the key points of his understanding with Aoun, Geagea paused for a moment to tell joke. With humor, the LF leader asked Aoun to urge his son-in-law Foreign Minister Gebran Bassil to act in accordance with the sixth point of their agreement.\n\nGeagea was referring to his understanding with the Former general over \"the need to adopt an independent foreign policy that guarantees Lebanon's interests and complies with international law.\"\n\nFor his part, Aoun thanked Geagea for his support and said he would extend his hands to all political parties.\n\nGeagea's official endorsement of Aoun's nomination would provide a significant boost for the former general's presidential bid but it remains unclear how the Future Movement would react to this initiative.\n\nBefore his arrival to the LF's headquarters, Aoun met with Maronite Patriarch BecharaRai, who has repeatedly voiced his support for initiatives aimed at breaking the presidential deadlock.\n\n\"We came to inform the patriarch of the agreement,\" Aoun said from the seat of the Maronite church.\n\nEarlier in the day, Rai had met with former Prime Minister and head of the Future Movement parliamentary bloc Fouad Siniora. Following his meeting with the patriarch, Siniora stressed the need to elect a president who enjoys the support of all Lebanese factions.\n\n\"We have to work hard to elect a person who can unite all Lebanese people from all political affiliations and promote coexistence among them,\" said Siniora.\n\nGeagea's endorsement of Aoun is the first time the country's two leading Christian parties have come together on such a pivotal issue after decades of animosity.\n\nGeagea, the former March 14 presidential candidate, was caught by surprise when his ally Future Movement leader and former Prime Minister Saad Hariri reportedly nominated Marada Movement Chief Suleiman Franjieh for the presidency.\n\nGeagea has staunchly opposed the deal, which stirred up controversy both within the March 8 and 14 camps.\n\nAoun, on the other hand, had shown no signs of giving up his presidential ambitions in favor of Franjieh, a longtime ally of Hezbollah and a member of Aoun's reform and Change parliamentary bloc.\n\nFor weeks Hezbollah remained silent over Hariri's proposed settlement, as Franjieh sought to win the support of its allies.\n\nHezbollah finally broke its media silence Dec. 29, 2015, and reaffirmed its support for Aoun's presidential bid.\n\nIn the first official statement since Hariri's initiative emerged, Hezbollah's Politburo Chief Sayyed Ibrahim Amin al-Sayyed announced from the seat of the Maronite patriarchate that his party is committed to supporting the presidential bid of its ally Aoun.\n\nAoun and Geagea kicked off talks a year ago. The talks culminated in a Declaration of Intent that paved the way for a surprise visit by Geagea to Aoun's residence in Rabieh in June.\n\nThe Declaration of Intent has since brought Aoun and Geagea closer together, putting an end to the bitter rivalry between the Christian leaders who fought a devastating war in 1990.\n\nOn 31 October 2016, General Michel Aoun was elected by the Lebanese parliament as Lebanon's President, ending a 29-month presidential vacuum.\n\nThe electoral slogan of the party was 'A Strong [FPM] for a Strong Lebanon'. The party formed a number of local coalitions with a wide array alliance partners around the country. In North III FPM fielded the ”Strong North” list, headed by Gebran Bassil, in alliance with the Independence Movement and the Future Movement. In Mount Lebanon I (Byblos–Kesrwan) FPM fielded the ”Strong Lebanon” list led by Chamel Roukoz. In Mount Lebanon II (Metn) FPM fielded the ”Strong Metn” list together with the SSNP and Tashnaq.\n\nAfter the split between the Future Movement and the Lebanese Forces, a joint list for Beirut I of the Free Patriotic Movement, Tashnaq and the Hunchaks was conceived. supported by the Future Movement. In Bekaa I FPM, Future, Tashnaq and independents fielded a joint list. In North I (Akkar) and South II (Saida-Jezzine) FPM formed electoral alliances with al-Jamaat al-Islamiyya. In North II FPM fielded a list in alliance with Kamal Kheir.\n\nMoreover, whilst FPM and the Amal-Hezbollah coalition parted ways nationally, joint lists were presented in Beirut II, Mount Lebanon III (Baabda), and Bekaa II (West Bekaa-Rachaya).\n\nIn Bekaa III (Baalbek-Hermel) FPM had hoped to form a list together with former speaker Hussein el-Husseini, but the project fell apart as el-Husseini withdrew from the electoral process. In the end, the Free Patriotic Movement candidates joined the list led by the former regional secretary of the Baath Party, Faiz Shukr.\n\nIn South III the Future Movement, the Free Patriotic Movement and the Lebanese Democratic Party supported a joint list called \"The South is Worth It\", with two FPM-supported independents.\n\nFollowing the announcement of results, Gebran Bassil stated that FPM and its Strong Lebanon bloc would form the largest bloc in parliament (a role previously played by the Future Movement). Bassil stated that FPM would gather up to 30 MPs, including Talal Arslan and Tashnaqs.\n\n"}
{"id": "1988452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988452", "title": "Big Belt Mountains", "text": "Big Belt Mountains\n\nThe Big Belt Mountains are a section of the Rocky Mountains in the U.S. state of Montana. Situated mainly in the Helena National Forest, the mountains are used for logging and recreation for the surrounding residents. Nearby is Helena, Montana, Canyon Ferry Lake, the Missouri River, Townsend, Montana, and White Sulphur Springs, Montana. The highest point in the Big Belt Range is Mount Edith at while the center of the range is \n\nThe Big Belts lie primarily between the Missouri River drainage to the west and the Smith River drainage to the east. Today, they are traversed by U.S. Highway 12 between Townsend, Montana in the Missouri drainage, and White Sulphur Springs, Montana in the upper Smith River drainage.\n\nThe gulches on the western slopes of the Big Belts were noted historically for rich gold placer strikes. The richest was the 1864 and 1865 placer gold strikes in Confederate Gulch, including Montana Bar, which was one of the most concentrated gold placer strikes ever made.\n\nThe range takes its name from the fact it is situated in a long belt-like arc. It stretches 75 miles, making it a mid-length subrange of the Rocky Mountains. To the east are the Little Belts and to the south, somewhat continuing this arc, are the Bridger Mountains.\n\nThe Belt Supergroup series of rocks, which are primarily Precambrian mudstones, were named after this mountain range and the adjacent Little Belt Mountains. A particularly well-known example of exposed Belt Group mudstones in alternating purplish-red or pale bluish-green layers in the Big Belt Mountains is in Wolf Creek Canyon along Interstate 15 between Helena and Great Falls. While these rocks were named after these ranges of western-central Montana, and are found in them, they are more exposed and better known in northwestern Montana, northern Idaho, and southeastern British Columbia, namely around Flathead Lake, Glacier National Park.\n\n"}
{"id": "1988459", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988459", "title": "CodeWright", "text": "CodeWright\n\nCodeWright is a Windows Programmers Editing System for software developers originally marketed by Premia Corp. (Beaverton, Oregon) and developed by Premia co-founders Eric Johnson and Don Kinzer, initially released in 1991. Premia was acquired in April 2000 by Starbase Corp. which was itself acquired in January 2003 by Borland.\n\nCodeWright can be configured to work with other integrated development environment (IDE) systems, and synchronize with IDEs on the fly. Support for version control systems, compilers, error files is available. The editor canbe extended via DLLs.\n\nCodeWright was a crossover product at a critical time in the history of Windows. A popular editor for programmers at the time was Brief, a DOS-only product that was valuable due to its early-day EMACS-like features, especially split-screen and extensive macro capability.\n\nMuch as being Brief-like was an advantage in the DOS and early Windows era, by 2000 having \"CodeWright editing features\" was a marketing advantage. Since the makers of Brief were not moving to a Windows-based editor, that left it to other parties.\n\nCodeWright was the first Windows editor that offered equivalent or better facilities as Brief, and would even emulate Brief. Additionally, CodeWright arrived at the same time as hardware graphics acceleration was arriving for Windows, removing at a stroke one of the biggest obstacles to the use of Windows, the slow redraw times that made quickly browsing through large code bases difficult or impossible in Windows.\n\nDespite its wide initial popularity, CodeWright would be eclipsed rapidly by a growing number of IDEs available for Windows, which offered similar features as CodeWright, and typically were better integrated to the specific language at hand.\n\nCodeWright is project-based. Within projects one can define and load everything and also make use of Microsoft Visual Studio libraries (or .Net) and the Java Class Libraries. Features such as Syntax Highlighting and Code completion can be readily changed. \n\nIt also enables extending the IDE by writing CodeWright-specific API scripts, Visual Basic scripts and Perl scripts.\n\nThe company's \"Fusion\" product, introduced mid-1990s, existed as both 16- and 32-bit versions, in support of programmers doing C++ development.\n\nBorland is no longer renewing support contracts and is no longer engaging in new development.\n\nCodeWright was acquired by Embarcadero Technologies as part CodeGear from Borland in 2008. CodeWright is currently sold by Embarcadero Technologies.\n\nEmbarcadero was still referring to CodeWright as \"Legacy\" in 2018.\n\n"}
{"id": "1988468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988468", "title": "Bükk", "text": "Bükk\n\nThe Bükk Mountains () are a section of the North Hungarian Mountains of the Inner Western Carpathians. Much of the area is included in the Bükk National Park.\n\nAlthough Kékes, the highest point in Hungary, is not here but in the nearby Mátra Mountains, the average height of the Bükk Mountains–with more than 20 peaks higher than 900 m–exceeds that of Mátra. The highest point of Bükk is Kettős bérc (961 m), third highest main peak in Hungary after Kékes and Galyatető.\n\nThere are 1115 known caves in the mountain range, including Bányász-barlang (Miner cave, 274 m) and István-lápa (254 m), the deepest caves in Hungary, the archaeologically important Szeleta cave, the Cave Bath (a main tourist attraction of Miskolc-Tapolca), the Anna Cave, and the István Cave. 52 of the caves are protected because of their fauna and microclimate.\n\nThe mountain range is also famous for its skiing facilities located around Bánkút. There are a number of maintained ski slopes equipped with several J-bar lifts. The long traditions of skiing – on the racing and recreational levels – in Bükk are fostered by local enthusiasts constituting the \"Bánkút Ski Club\" also in charge of operating and developing one of the largest alpine ski centres in Hungary (http://www.bankut.hu).\n\n"}
{"id": "1988471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988471", "title": "Qiu Xiaolong", "text": "Qiu Xiaolong\n\nQiu Xiaolong (, Chinese pronunciation /tɕʰjoʊː ˌɕjɑʊˈlʊŋ/, American English pronunciation ; born Shanghai, China, 1953) \nis an English-language poet, literary translator, crime novelist, critic, and academic, who has lived for many years in St. Louis, Missouri. He originally visited the United States in 1988 to write a book about T. S. Eliot, but following the Tiananmen Square protests of 1989, he remained in America to avoid persecution by the Communist Party of China.\n\nHe has published nine crime-thriller/mystery novels set in Shanghai in the 1990s at the point when the People's Republic of China is making momentous changes. These include \"Death of a Red Heroine\", which won the Anthony Award for best first novel in 2001, and \"A Loyal Character Dancer\". All books feature Chief Inspector Chen Cao, a poetry-writing cop with integrity, and his sidekick Detective Yu. Alongside the plot, a major concern in the books is modern China itself. Each book features quotes from ancient and modern poets, Confucius, insights into Chinese cuisine, architecture, history, politics, herbology and philosophy as well as criminal procedure.\n\nQiu says his father was an \"accidental capitalist\": in the late 1940s the trading company his father worked for went bankrupt and as severance received a case of unsold perfume essence. His father taught himself how to make perfume and started a small perfume factory in Shanghai. The factory was transferred to the state in the mid-1950s, following the communist takeover of China, and thereafter his father was a manual laborer in a state-run factory.\n\nThe Cultural Revolution began in 1966, and the family was branded as \"black\", part of the counter-revolutionary class. The Red Guard searched their home for two days, taking away anything regarded as decadent (jewelry, books, even electric fans); Qiu's mother had a nervous breakdown, from which she never really recovered.\nQiu's father came home at times with bruises from being attacked at work.\nThen his father suffered an acute retinal detachment and was hospitalized. In order to be eligible for eye surgery, his father had to write a confession of guilt for his capitalist bourgeois sins; but it was not deemed sufficiently repentant. So the teenage Qiu re-wrote it, using melodramatic language and framing his father's capitalist sins as no accident. It seemed to work, as soon after his father received his surgery. Ironically, Qiu says, \"The Red Guard’s approval of my father’s confession gave me some confidence in my writing\".\n\nQiu's older brother (Qiu Xiaowei), handicapped from childhood due to infantile paralysis, also suffered a breakdown during the Cultural Revolution, being unable to work or study (the schools all being shut down). The brother is still hospitalized, and Qiu makes regular trips to Shanghai to visit him.\nHe also has a younger sister, Xiaohong.\n\nAt age 16, Qiu would have been sent to the countryside to be \"re-educated\", but was allowed to stay in Shanghai because he suffered from bronchitis. With schools closed, Qiu spent his time practicing Tai Chi in the park on the Bund; one day, he noticed people studying English on a park bench and decided to join them.\nThis interest in English grew into his academic specialty: he got a B.A. in English from East China Normal University (1978), an M.A. in English Literature from the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences (1981), and was an Assistant and Associate Research Professor at the Shanghai Academy of Social Sciences (1986 – 1988).\n\nIn 1988, prior to a fellowship in the United States, he married his wife Wang Lijun.\n\nIn 1988, Qiu went on a Ford Foundation grant to Washington University in St. Louis, Missouri, to work on a book about T.S. Eliot.\nEliot was born in St. Louis, and his grandfather founded the university.\n\nBut in 1989, Qiu and fellow Chinese academics were stunned to watch TV reports of the severe government crackdown of the Tiananmen Square protests. On July 4, Qiu was volunteering at a St. Louis fair, selling egg rolls as a fundraiser for Chinese student protesters, when he overheard a Voice of America broadcast describing him as \"a published poet who supported the democratic movement in China.\"\nSubsequent signs suggested Qiu might have trouble if he returned to China: his sister was visited by the Shanghai police who told her \"to tell me to behave myself\"; and he learned that his latest poetry book, already at the galley stage, would not be published. So Qiu made the momentous choice to stay in the United States, and arranged for his wife to come a month later. The next year, his daughter Julia was born in St. Louis.\n\nQiu enrolled as student at Washington University, and earned an M.A. (1993) and Ph.D. (1995) in Comparative Literature. From 1996-2005 he was an adjunct professor there. He and his family continue to live in St. Louis.\n\nQiu began writing poems in Chinese in 1978, studying under the poet Bian Zhilin (卞之琳).\nWhile an academic in China, Qiu wrote poetry and scholarly articles,\nand translated work by the modernist poet T.S. Eliot into Chinese, including \"The Waste Land\" and \"The Love Song of J. Alfred Prufrock\".\nEliot has been a major influence on Qiu, both in his poetry and, more obliquely, in his detective novels. Eliot's \"impersonal theory\", as opposed to the romantic tradition, holds that the poet should not identify himself with the persona of the poem. Likewise, Inspector Chen of his novels has some of Qiu's traits but is not him, \"embracing the tension between the impersonal and personal.\"\n\nWith Qiu's 1989 decision to stay in the United States for political reasons, publishing in China became difficult and he began writing mostly in English. After Qiu finished his Ph.D. in 1995, he visited China again after a long absence.\nHe was impressed by the astounding social changes in the country, with newly-minted capitalists becoming darlings and old socialist norms fading. He tried to express some of this in a long poem “Don Quixote in China,” but was not very satisfied with the result.\nSo he decided that a novel was better for describing \"this type of dramatic change -- you can call it 'best of times, worst of times'\".\nNever having written a novel before, and writing it in his second language of English, he latched onto the \"detective story as a ready-made framework\".\nThus was born his protagonist Inspector Chen Cao, like Qiu a Chinese poet and translator from Shanghai who studied English literature, but also a policeman. Qiu says, \"A cop needs to walk around, knock on people's doors and talk to various people. This particular cop is very helpful because he's an intellectual. He's not only going to catch a murderer; he also tries to think what's wrong historically, socially, culturally — in what kind of a context did this tragedy occur?\"\n\nQiu's first Inspector Chen novel, \"Death of a Red Heroine\", garnered him the 2001 Anthony Award for Best First Novel by a mystery writer.\nand \"The Wall Street Journal\" ranked it as the third best political novel of all time.\nIt was based in part on an actual sex and drug scandal from the early 1990s.\nUp to 2019, Qiu has written eleven Inspector Chen novels. The early novels are often occupied with legacies of the Cultural Revolution. The series has tried to keep up with the continuing changes in China. Qiu goes back regularly to visit, watches Chinese TV via satellite, and reads Chinese newspapers over the internet.\nThe seventh novel, \"Don't Cry, Tai Lake\" touches on environmental contamination in modern China.\nDiscussions and revelations on Chinese microblogs (Weibo) inspired some of the eighth novel, \"The Enigma of China\".\nThe scandals and downfall of the high Chinese official Bo Xilai formed a basis for the ninth novel, \"Shanghai Redemption\".\n\nIn many of the Inspector Chen novels, Qiu portrays traditional Shanghai life amidst the old alleyways and also how it is rapidly disappearing with modernization. These are also themes in two of his other works: \"Red Dust\" is a set of short stories about the inhabitants of a small lane in Shanghai, spanning Mao's rise to the return of capitalism; \"Disappearing Shanghai\" combines intimate black-and-white photos of older Shanghai with poems by Qiu.\nQiu visits his old family house in Shanghai occasionally; frozen in time, it is filled with old carved furniture and devoid of plumbing (having instead a chamber pot).\n\nCultural background is a major influence in Qiu' s novels. From the Cultural Revolution to the Economic Reform, his writing reflects the society during those times. For Qiu, a lot of the writing is inspired by his own childhood experiences. Qiu also writes about Chinese cuisine in his novels, which gives Western readers a glimpse into Chinese food culture, and the Chinese people, as the Chinese people in Qiu's novels are not portrayed as the stereotypical characters who are ignorant and foolish, living an exotic lifestyle. Rather, he portrays a range of realistic characters who are talented, virtuous, and open-minded.\n\nOne of the most significant stylistic symbols in Qiu Xiaolong' s novel is that he incorporates a lot of poetic writing, which stylistically owes more to Eliot and Yeats than it does to classical Chinese verse.\n\nQiu's teacher, Bian ZhiLin, significantly influenced him on his career path as well. When he was pursuing his master's degree, he started writing poems when his teacher Bian suggested him to do so. Furthermore, following Bian's footstep, Qiu started to write novels in English as Bian was writing English novels instead of Chinese novels.\n\nQiu believes it is an advantage rather than a disadvantage to write from a distance, which reflects the fact that he is writing about China from a distance. One may see from an angle what those living in the place fail to see. According to Qiu, he is using his detective novels as a scope to view Chinese society, raising important political and social issues about contemporary China. As he said:“The 'protagonist' of my novel is actually China, whereas the detective fictions are just the masks--the Western society has many bias and misunderstanding when they are introducing China. I hope to portray parts of the true China using English, and talk about the changes and confusions Chinese people are experiencing during the period of social transition.\"\n\nHis series of novels featuring Shanghai Inspector Chen Cao has been praised for its accurate portrayal of modern life in communist China, where a difficult transition toward a more Western society and capitalist economy conflicts with traditional Chinese values and a still-oppressive and bureaucratic government.\n\nMany reviewers noted that Qiu's descriptions of China and its society are the most interesting part of the book, and that the murder mystery serves as a device to paint the nation's portrait. Connie Fletcher, writing in Booklist, declared the book to be \"fascinating for what it reveals about China as well as what it reveals about a complex man in this setting.\"\n\nIt was also commented that, in publishing crime fiction of the caliber that is recognized by international competitions, Qiu Xiaolong breaks the stereotype that Chinese writers only write a certain kind of novel.\n\nQiu Xiaolong’s work has been criticized by Chinese critics and readers who claim that his depiction of China is not real as his target audience is primarily Western readers.\nSome Chinese critics have complained that Qiu's content plays to orientalism that appeals to Western perceptions of China, utilizing cultural elements like folklore, ancient poetry, and cuisine. Critics also argue that Qiu's novels lack deductive reasoning and suspenseful enough plot to be considered a worthy detective story.\n\nQiu‘s themes often revolve around corruption in China. He has claimed that since the Communist party has taken over control of the media, the internet has become an important and effective way for people to speak out for justice in spite of constant censorship. He has argued that political reform in China would be impossible despite dramatic economic changes. His detective novels’ protagonist Inspector Chen often uncovers corruption while investigating case, which turns his idealism toward pessimism about the Chinese political system. He also has commented that his love of incorporating authentic regional Chinese food into his fiction is related to feelings of nostalgia, such as Marcel Proust famously does in Remembrance of Things Past; and that traditional food in present China still exists because of the food-safety scandals.\n\n\n\n\"Death of a Red Heroine\", \"A Loyal Character Dancer\", \"When Red is Black\", \"A Case of Two Cities\", \"Red Mandarin Dress\", \"The Mao Case\", \"Don't Cry, Tai Lake\" and \"Hold Your Breath, China\" have been adapted as BBC Radio 4 dramas, starring Jamie Zubairi as Chen and Dan Li as Detective Yu.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1988474", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988474", "title": "Pyotr Sviatopolk-Mirsky", "text": "Pyotr Sviatopolk-Mirsky\n\nPrince Pyotr Dmitrievich Svyatopolk-Mirsky (, tr. ; , in Vladikavkaz – , in Saint Petersburg, Russian Empire) was a Russian general, politician, and police official.\n\nSvyatopolk-Mirsky was born in Vladikavkaz into the prominent Svyatopolk-Mirsky family. He was the only son of the general Dmitry Ivanovich Svyatopolk-Mirsky and Georgian Princess Sofia Orbeliani. Pyotr was educated at Page Corps, graduating in 1874 with first-class honours, and was appointed Page of the Chamber. In 1875, he became a cornet at \"Her Empress Leib-Guards Hussars\". He was the father to literary historian D. S. Mirsky.\n\nSvyatopolk-Mirsky took part in the Russo-Turkish War, 1877–78 and was decorated for valour in the Battle of Kars. Then he studied at the General Staff Academy and graduated in 1881. \n\nIn 1884, he was made the acting commander of the staff of 31st Infantry division, and in 1887, he was appointed to commander of staff of 3d Grenadier division.\n\nIn 1895, he was appointed the governor of Penza, and in 1897 the governor of Yekaterinoslav.\n\nIn 1900, Dmitry Sipyagin appointed Svyatopolk-Mirsky assistant Minister of the Interior and commander of the Imperial Corps of Gendarmes. After Sipyagin's assassination in 1902, Svyatopolk-Mirsky resigned as assistant minister but was persuaded to accept the position of Governor-General of Vilna (modern-day Lithuania and Belarus). As the Governor-General, Svyatopolk-Mirsky was credited with successful liberal reforms, defusing national tensions in the province by allowing more rights to the national minorities, stopping pogroms against the Jews.\n\nIn August 1904, he succeeded to the position of Minister of the Interior after Plehve's assassination. His appointment was seen as a victory of Liberals over the Conservatives and in the Court term as a victory of the party of widow Empress Maria Fyodorovna (who supported the liberal reforms and was a patroness of Pyotr's sister Olga) over the party of Empress consort Alexandra Fyodorovna.\n\nConservative Ministers Witte and Sipiagin credited Svyatopolk-Mirsky with being an honourable, intelligent man of the highest moral principles, which is notable due to his attempts at liberal reform in Imperial Russia while minister. These reforms began with permitting members of the local Zemstvos to gather to discuss broader policy issues and coordination of Zemstvo programs, something that had not been permitted in Russia regularly. The remaining reforms were embodied in a decree that called for the inclusion of elected members to the State Council, removal of the restrictions on the Old Believers, measures to strengthen legality, extend freedom of the press and religion, broaden the authority of local self-government, eliminate unnecessary restrictions on non-Russians, and do away with exceptional laws in general. Svyatopolk-Mirsky not only allowed the congress, but also participated in its work and personally delivered its decision to Tsar Nicholas II along with his own plan for constitutional reforms. \n\nSvyatopolk-Mirsky's plan included transferring more power to the State Council of Imperial Russia. The plan was much less radical than the reforms implemented by the October Manifesto 1905, but in December 1904 it was considered ultra-radical and was dismissed.\n\nThe massacre of a peaceful demonstration in Saint Petersburg, known as Bloody Sunday, occurred on . According to Svyatopolk-Mirsky, he never had authorised the shooting of the demonstrators, but still fulfilled his final duty to the tsar, becoming the scapegoat for the massacre. According to Svyatopolk-Mirsky's opponents, he not only did authorise the shooting, but also actively encouraged the demonstration in order to push his own political agenda.\n\nSvyatopolk-Mirsky was replaced as minister of the Interior by Alexander Bulygin in February 1905 and retired from government service. As a retired Minister of Interior, he was expected to be appointed a member of the State Council of Imperial Russia, but it was not the case. He retired from the political life until his death on 16 May 1914.\n\n"}
{"id": "1988476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988476", "title": "EMD GP59", "text": "EMD GP59\n\nThe EMD GP59 is a 4-axle diesel road switcher locomotive model built by General Motors Electro-Motive Division between 1985 and 1989. Power was provided by a 12-cylinder EMD 710G3A diesel engine, which could produce . This locomotive shared the same common frame with the EMD GP60, giving it an overall length of . It featured a fuel tank. 36 examples of this locomotive were built including three demonstrators. Norfolk Southern placed the only order for the GP59 and also acquired the three demonstrators which featured an aerodynamic cab.\n\nBy adding a full cowl body, a comfort cab, and an HEP generator, the GP59 became the EMD F59PH.\n\nIn 2011 Norfolk Southern began a program to upgrade their fleet of GP59s, the only GP59s operating anywhere. The first one was not released until March 2013 as NS 4650 GP59E. The GP59E features a new EM2000 microprocessor, an all-new electrical cabinet with SmartStart auto start/stop, rebuilt 12-710G3C-BC prime-mover with EMDEC EUI system, NS-designed split cooling, the NS Admiral cab with cab signals, LSL, and CCB26 electronic brake valve. The GP59E is set up to operate with NS class RP-M4C road slugs.\n\nIn 2016, Norfolk Southern began a program to upgrade GP50 and GP59 units to GP59ECO's. These will be similar to the GP33ECO locomotives, but these units will be paid for by Norfolk Southern, not government funding. In June 2016, the first unit, 4662, was completed, rebuilt from GP50 7073.\n\n"}
{"id": "1988477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988477", "title": "Svyatopolk-Mirsky", "text": "Svyatopolk-Mirsky\n\nSvyatopolk-Mirsky (, Sviatapolk-Mirski, , , also transliterated as \"Swiatopolk\" or \"Mirskii\") is a family of Russian and Polish nobility that originated from present-day northwestern Belarus.\n\nThey first appeared in the Grand Duchy of Lithuania in the late 15th century as \"Mirski,\" a name probably derived from the town of Miory in the former Kievan Rus principate of Polotsk, although it is possible that the family had been local rulers for some centuries beforehand. The memoirs of Prince Pyotr Vladimirovich Dolgorukov assert that the Svyatopolk-Mirsky family were nobility descending from Rurik who submitted to Gediminas and became magnates. The \"Genealogical Handbook of the Nobility\" (\"\") states that the Svyatopolk-Mirsky family descends from a younger branch of the Princes of Turov. Two members of the family Bogusław and Stanisław were representatives at the Great Sejm in 1791. \n\nTomasz Bogumił Jan Światopełk-Mirski (1788-1868) fought in the 1830 November Uprising near Suwalki and fled into exile in Paris, where he both represented the interests of the exiled Poles in France and attempted to seek pardon from the tsar. He was an active participant in the French colonization of Algiers, where he received a large grant of land and allegedly suggested the formation of the French Foreign Legion in order to reduce the burden of Polish exiles on the French state. He converted to Orthodoxy from Roman Catholicism, was regarded as a traitor by his fellow Polish rebels for his outspoken support of Pan-Slavism. He was eventually allowed to return to Russia, where he remained under house arrest until his death. His sons Dmitry (1825—1899) and Nikolai (1833—1898) were educated as members of the Russian nobility and had distinguished military careers.\n\nTomasz Bogumił claimed a Rurikid descent, according to his claim, the Mirskis were descendants of Sviatopolk I of Kiev, but his claims were rejected by leading genealogists of Poland and Russia in the 19th century. Despite this, his pro-Russian attitudes and allegiance to the Tsars earned his branch of the family the confirmation of their dubious princely title by Alexander II of Russia in 1861 although the Senate of the Polish Kingdom had previously confirmed it in 1821. Nikolai bought the historic castle of Mir in 1895 due to its name, the family having no historic connection with it. \n\nOther branches of the family remained Polish by choice and retained estates near Braslaw and Miory until 1940. Adam Napoleon Mirski of Zawierz and his sister Maria were painted by Jan Rustem in 1808. The painting, \"Portrait of Maria Mirska, Adam Napoleon Mirski and Barbara Szumska\" is on display at the National Museum in Warsaw.\n\nTomasz (d. 1852) was an officer in Napoleon's Polish cavalry. Catholic Father Eugeniusz Światopełk-Mirski was murdered by the Bolsheviks in Mogilev in 1918, Father Antoni Swiatopelk-Mirski (1907-1942) was martyred at Auschwitz by the Nazis and has recently been advanced by the Vatican as a candidate for beatification. Two teenage members of the family, Krzysztof Światopełk-Mirski and Michał Światopełk-Mirski, were killed in the 1944 Warsaw Uprising.\n\nThe most notable Svyatopolk-Mirsky members are in the Russian branch:\n\n"}
{"id": "1988483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988483", "title": "Frank Castle (rugby league)", "text": "Frank Castle (rugby league)\n\nFrank Castle (second ¼ 1924 – 15 August 1999) was an English Olympic Games sprint trialist, rugby union, and professional rugby league footballer who played in the 1940s, 1950s and 1960s. He played representative level rugby union (RU) for Warwickshire, and at club level for Coventry R.F.C., and representative level rugby league (RL) for Great Britain and England, and at club level for Leigh (Heritage № 581) and Barrow, as a , i.e. number 2 or 5.\n\nCastle won caps for England while at Barrow in 1951 against France, in 1952 against Other Nationalities (2 matches), and Wales, in 1953 against Other Nationalities, and won caps for Great Britain while at Barrow in 1952 against Australia (3 matches), and in 1954 against Australia.\n\nCastle also represented Great Britain while at Barrow between 1952 and 1956 against France (2 non-test matches).\n\nCastle played , i.e. number 5, in Barrow's 0-10 defeat by Wigan in the 1950–51 Challenge Cup Final during the 1950–51 season at Wembley Stadium, London on Saturday 5 May 1951, played and scored a try in the 21-12 victory over Workington Town in the 1954–55 Challenge Cup Final during the 1954–55 season at Wembley Stadium, London on Saturday 30 April 1955, in front of a crowd of 66,513, and played in the 7-9 defeat by Leeds in the 1956–57 Challenge Cup Final during the 1956–57 season at Wembley Stadium, London on Saturday 11 May 1957, in front of a crowd of 76,318.\n\nCastle played , i.e. number 5, in Barrow's 12-2 victory over Oldham in the 1954 Lancashire County Cup Final during the 1954–55 season at Station Road, Swinton on Saturday 23 October 1954.\n\nCastle is second in Barrow's all time try scorers list with 281-tries.\n\n"}
{"id": "1988495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988495", "title": "Lucas Industries", "text": "Lucas Industries\n\nLucas Industries plc was a Birmingham-based British manufacturer of motor industry and aerospace industry components. Once prominent, it was listed on the London Stock Exchange and was formerly a constituent of the FTSE 100 Index. In August 1996, Lucas merged with the American Varity Corporation to form LucasVarity plc.\n\nAfter LucasVarity was sold to TRW the Lucas brand name was licensed for its brand equity to Elta Lighting for aftermarket auto parts in the United Kingdom. The Lucas trademark is currently owned by ZF Friedrichshafen, which retained the Elta arrangement.\n\nIn the 1850s, Joseph Lucas, a jobless father of six, sold paraffin oil from a barrow cart around the streets of Hockley. In 1860, he founded the firm that would become Lucas Industries. His 17-year-old son Harry joined the firm around 1872. At first it made general pressed metal merchandise, including plant pot holders, scoops and buckets, and later in 1875 lamps for ships. \"Joseph Lucas & Son\" was based in Little King Street from 1882 and later Great King Street Birmingham.\n\nIn 1902, what had by then become Joseph Lucas Ltd, incorporated in 1898, started making automotive electrical components such as magnetos, alternators, windscreen wipers, horns, lighting, wiring and starter motors. The company started its main growth in 1914 with a contract to supply Morris Motors Limited with electrical equipment. During the First World War Lucas made shells and fuses, as well as electrical equipment for military vehicles. Up until the early 1970s, Lucas was the principal supplier to British manufacturers (such as BSA, Norton and Triumph) of magnetos, dynamos, alternators, switches and other electrical components.\n\nAfter the First World War the firm expanded rapidly, branching out into products such as braking systems and diesel systems for the automotive industry and hydraulic actuators and electronic engine control systems for the aerospace industry. In 1926 they gained an exclusive contract with Austin. Around 1930, Lucas and Smiths established a trading agreement to avoid competition in each other's markets. During the 1920s and 1930s Lucas grew rapidly by taking over a number of their competitors such as Rotax and C.A.Vandervell (CAV). During WW2 Lucas were engaged by Rover to work on the combustion and fuel systems for the Whittle jet engine project making the burners. This came about because of their experience of sheet metal manufacture and CAV for the pumps and injectors.\nIn about 1957 they started a semiconductor manufacturing plant to make rectifiers and transistors.\n\nIn 1976, the militant workforce within Lucas Aerospace were facing significant layoffs. Under the leadership of Mike Cooley, they developed the Lucas Plan to convert the company from arms to the manufacture of socially useful products, and save jobs. The plan was described at the time by the \"Financial Times\" as \"one of the most radical alternative plans ever drawn up by workers for their company\", and by Tony Benn as \"one of the most remarkable exercises that has ever occurred in British industrial history\". The Plan took a year to put together, consisted of six volumes of around 200 pages each, and included designs for 150 proposed items for manufacture, market analysis and proposals for employee training and restructuring the firm's work organisation.\n\nThe plan was not put into place but it is claimed that the associated industrial action saved some jobs. In addition the Plan had an impact outside of Lucas Aerospace: according to a 1977 article in \"New Statesman\", \"the philosophical and technical implications of the plan (were) now being discussed on average of twenty five times a week in international media\". Workers in other companies subsequently undertook similar initiatives elsewhere in the UK, continental Europe, Australia and the United States, and the Plan was also supported by and influenced the work of radical scientists such as the British Society for Social Responsibility in Science and community, peace and environmental activists through spreading the idea of encouraging socially useful production. The Plan's proposals also had an influence on the economic development strategies of a number of left-wing Labour councils, for example the West Midlands, Sheffield, Cleveland and the Greater London Council, where Cooley was appointed Technology Director of the Greater London Enterprise Board after being sacked by Lucas in 1981 due to his activism.\n\nIn August 1996, Lucas Industries plc merged with the North American Varity Corporation to form LucasVarity plc. Its specific history is covered on the LucasVarity page but for the sake of continuity key aspects of the old Lucas business histories to date, particularly that referring to CAV and Lucas Diesel Systems are still included here.\n\nHarry Lucas designed a hub lamp for use in a high bicycle in 1879 and named the oil lamp \"King of the Road\". This name would come to be associated with the manufactured products of Lucas Companies, into the present day. However, Lucas did not use the \"King of the Road\" epithet for every lamp manufactured. They used this name on only their most prestigious and usually highest priced lamps and goods. This naming format would last until the 1920s when the \"King of the Road\" wording was pressed into the outer edge of the small \"lion and torch\" button motifs that frequently decorated the tops of both bicycle and motor-car lamps. The public were encouraged by Lucas to refer to every Lucas lamp as a \"King of the Road\", but strictly speaking, this is quite wrong, as most lamps throughout the 20th century possessed either a name, a number, or both.\nJoseph and Harry Lucas formed a joint stock corporation with the New Departure Bell Co., of America in 1896, so that Lucas designed bicycle lamps could be manufactured in America to avoid import duties.\n\nThe King of the Road name returned in 2013 as Lucas Electrical reintroduced a range of bicycle lighting to the UK. The name was reserved for the Lucas Electrical's premium LED bike lights.\n\nLucas also acquired many of its British competitors:\n\nCAV Ltd was headquartered in Acton, London making diesel fuel injection equipment for diesel engine manufacturers worldwide and electrical equipment for commercial and military vehicles.\n\nThe company was formed by Charles Anthony Vandervell (1870–1955), making accumulators, electric carriage lamps, and switchboards in Willesden.\n\nIn 1904 the firm, moved to Warple Way, Acton. The firm pioneered the dynamo-charged battery principle and in 1911 it produced the world's first lighting system used on a double-decker bus. By 1918 1,000 employees were making vehicle electrics and aircraft magnetos. Wireless components were also made from 1923.\n\nIn 1926 CAV was bought by Lucas. In 1931, CAV in partnership with Robert Bosch Ltd., became CAV-Bosch Ltd and began making fuel injection pumps for the diesel industry and later fuel systems for aircraft. Lucas bought Bosch's interest out in 1937 and it became CAV Ltd in 1939. In 1978 the company's name became Lucas CAV. In 1980 the Acton factory employed around 3,000 people making heavy duty electric equipment for commercial vehicles, by this time high volume diesel fuel injection manufacturing had been relocated to larger modern factories in Kent, Suffolk, Gloucestershire and many countries throughout the world. Acton continued to make low volume specialist pumps for the military and for Gardner engines.\n\nThe electrical business was sold to US company Prestolite Electric in 1998 and remained at Acton until relocating to nearby Greenford in 2005.\n\nThe diesel fuel injection equipment research, engineering and manufacturing business known in later years as Lucas Diesel Systems Ltd continues at all of the worldwide sites (with the exception of those in Japan and South Carolina, US, which had closed by this time) and since 2000 has been owned by Delphi, a US-domiciled automotive parts and systems manufacturer. The name has been changed to Delphi, and the business is a major part of the Delphi Powertrain Division.\n\nWorldwide dieselfuel injection business sites: England - Gillingham, Kent; Park Royal, London; Sudbury, Suffolk; Stonehouse, Gloucestershire. France - Blois and La Rochelle. Brazil - São Paulo. Mexico - Saltillo. Spain - Sant Cugat, Barcelona. Turkey - Ismir. India - Mannure, Chennai. Korea - Changwon, Busan.\n\nThe company started as a car brake manufacturer after, in 1925, Albert H. Girling (also co-founder of Franks-Girling Universal Postage) patented a wedge-actuated braking system. In 1929 he sold the patent rights to the New Hudson company. Girling later developed disc brakes, which were successful on racing cars from the early 1950s to the 1970s. Girling brakes had the quirk of using natural rubber (later nitrile) seals, which caused difficulties for some American owners of British cars because of incompatibility with US brake fluids.\n\nGirling brake manufacture was taken over by Lucas in 1938, but the patent remained held by New Hudson until this in turn was purchased by Lucas in 1943. Lucas then moved its Bendix brake and Luvax shock absorber interests into a new division which became Girling Ltd. Girling products included:\n\nRotax went through several name changes and manufacturing locations, the last of these being the former premises of the Edison Phonograph Company in Willesden, west London in 1913. Initially a motor cycle accessory business, Rotax began to specialise in aircraft components after the First World War. After an initial proposal for Lucas and Rotax to jointly take over CAV, Lucas decided in 1926 to take over both companies.\n\nIn 1956 Lucas Rotax opened a new plant in the new town of Hemel Hempstead to the north of London. Lucas Rotax was later renamed Lucas Aerospace. By the 1970s the company had 15 plants at various locations.\nBased in the Park Royal Industrial Estate, London next to a soy sauce factory and opposite Lucas Rotax, this facility provided components for BAE Systems, principally for the Stingray Torpedo Project.\n\nIn 1913 Frederick Richard Simms started Simms Motor Units Ltd, which in the First World War became the principal supplier of magnetos to the armed forces. In 1920 the company took over a former piano factory in East Finchley, north London. During the 1930s the factory developed a range of Diesel fuel injectors. In the Second World War the company again became the principal supplier of magnetos for aircraft and tanks, also supplying dynamos, starter motors, lights, pumps, nozzles, spark plugs and coils.\n\nThe East Finchley factory continued to expand after the war, eventually reaching . In 1955, the company acquired seven other British light engineering companies: R.F. Landon Partners, Horstman, Mono-Cam, Hadrill and Horstmann, Industrial Fan and Heater, Clearex Products and Simplus Products. At the end of 1957, the company formally changed its name to Simms Motor and Electronics Corporation Ltd., informally known as the Simms Group. The Simms Group was taken over by Lucas in 1968 and integrated within the CAV division. Manufacturing in East Finchley was steadily run down and the factory closed in 1991 to be redeveloped for housing. It is commemorated by Simms Gardens and Lucas Gardens.\n\nIn the 1920s Lucas signed a number of cross licensing agreements with Bosch, Delco and most of the other automotive electrical equipment manufacturers in Europe and North America. In addition, these agreements included a non-competitive clause agreeing that Lucas would not sell any electrical equipment in their countries and they would not sell electrical equipment in Great Britain. By the mid-1930s Lucas had a virtual monopoly of automotive electrical equipment in Great Britain.\n\nWith a monopoly in place, Lucas proceeded to supply electrical equipment that was commonly cited as the best reason not to buy a British car.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1988499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988499", "title": "Civil Aviation Administration of China", "text": "Civil Aviation Administration of China\n\nThe Civil Aviation Administration of China (CAAC; ), formerly the General Administration of Civil Aviation of China (), is the aviation authority under the Ministry of Transport of the People's Republic of China. It oversees civil aviation and investigates aviation accidents and incidents. As the aviation authority responsible for China, it concludes civil aviation agreements with other aviation authorities, including those of the Special administrative regions of China which are categorized as \"special domestic\". It directly operated its own airline, China's aviation monopoly, until 1988. The agency is headquartered in Dongcheng District, Beijing.\n\nThe CAAC does not share the responsibility of managing China's airspace with the Central Military Commission under the regulations in the Civil Aviation Law of the People's Republic of China (中华人民共和国民用航空法, \"Zhōnghuá Rénmín Gònghéguó Mínyòng Hángkōng Fǎ\").\n\nCAAC was formed on November 2, 1949, shortly after the founding of the People's Republic of China, to manage all non-military aviation in the country, as well as provide general and commercial flight service (similar to Aeroflot in the Soviet Union). It was initially managed by the People's Liberation Army Air Force.\n\nIn 1963, China purchased six Vickers Viscount aircraft from Great Britain, followed in 1971 with the purchase of four Hawker Siddeley Trident aircraft from Pakistan International Airlines. In August 1971 the airline purchased six Trident 2Es directly from Hawker Siddeley. The country also placed provisional orders for three Concorde aircraft. With the 1972 Nixon visit to China the country ordered 10 Boeing 707 jets. In December 1973 it took the unprecedented step of borrowing £40 million from Western banks to fund the purchase of 15 additional Trident jets. Russian built Ilyushin Il-62 aircraft were used on long range routes during the 1970s and 1980s.\n\nIn 1980 the airline was transferred to the direct control of the State Council.\n\nIn 1988 CAAC Airlines was divided up into a number of individual air carriers, each named after the region of China where it had its hub. Since then, CAAC acts solely as a government agency and no longer provides commercial flight service.\n\nIn March 2008, CAAC was made a subsidiary of the newly created Ministry of Transport, and its official Chinese name was slightly adjusted to reflect its being no longer a ministry-level agency. Its official English name has remained Civil Aviation Administration of China.\n\nOn 11 March 2019, the CAAC was the first civil aviation authority to ground the Boeing 737 MAX. After so doing, most of the world's aviation authorities grounded the MAX, including the European Union Aviation Safety Agency the next day. It took the US Federal Aviation Administration until 13 March to ground the MAX. Aviation commentators saw this as having bolstered the global reputation of the CAAC at the expense of the FAA.\n\nCurrently, CAAC is an administrative department mostly intended to supervise aviation market. CAAC releases route applications every week and for routes that don't fly to an open-sky country/region, there will be monthly scoring releases that determine the score for each of them. CAAC subsequently grant those whose score highest on the list permission to start.\n\nCAAC also issue frequent operation data and notices.\n\nList of Directors of the Civil Aviation Administration of China:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1988523", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988523", "title": "East African shilling", "text": "East African shilling\n\nThe East African shilling was the currency issued for use in British controlled areas in East Africa from 1921 until 1969. It was produced by the East African Currency Board. It is also the proposed name for a common currency that the East African Community plans to introduce.\n\nThe shilling was subdivided into 100 \"cents\", and a \"pound\" was equivalent to twenty shillings.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, the pound sterling formerly was divided into twenty shillings, and it was normal to consider the shilling to be a subsidiary unit of the pound. In British East Africa, however, even though twenty shillings were equal in value to one pound sterling, the shilling was always considered the primary unit of account. This state of affairs was unique amongst all the parts of the British Empire that used the pound sterling currency.\n\nThis anomalous state of affairs arose because the first currency used by the British colonial authorities in British East Africa was the rupee, not sterling. The East African shilling was introduced to Kenya, Tanganyika, and Uganda in 1921, replacing the short-lived East African florin at a rate of 2 shillings to 1 florin. The short-lived florin had been introduced because of increasing silver prices after World War I. At that time, the Indian rupee was the currency of the British East African states. The rupee, being a silver coin, rose in value against sterling. When it reached the value of two shillings, the authorities decided to replace it with the florin. From the florin thence came the East African shilling. The currency remained pegged to one shilling sterling and was subdivided into 100 cents. In 1936, Zanzibar joined the currency board, and the Zanzibari rupee was replaced at a rate of 1.5 East African shillings to 1 Zanzibari rupee. It was replaced by local currencies (Kenyan shilling, Ugandan shilling, and Tanzanian shilling) following the territories' independence.\n\nIn 1951, the East African shilling replaced the Indian rupee in the Aden colony and protectorate, which became the South Arabian Federation in 1963. In 1965, the East African Currency Board was breaking up, and the South Arabian dinar replaced the shilling in the South Arabian Federation at a rate of 20 shillings to 1 dinar.\n\nThe shilling was also used in parts of what is now Somalia, Ethiopia, and Eritrea when they were under British control. Before 1941, these areas, then known as Italian East Africa, were using the Italian East African lira. In 1941, as a result of World War II, Britain regained control and introduced the shilling, at a rate of 1 shilling to 24 lira. Italian Somaliland was returned to Italy in 1949 as a UN Trusteeship and soon switched to the Italian Somaliland somalo, which was at par with the shilling. British Somaliland gained independence in 1960, and joined what had been Italian Somaliland to create Somalia. In that year, Somalia began using the Somali shilling (replacing the Somali somalo) at par with the East African shilling.\n\nEthiopia regained independence in 1941, with British support, and began using the East African shilling. Maria Theresa thalers, Indian rupees, and Egyptian pounds were also legal tender at the beginning of this time, and it is unclear exactly when this status ended. Full sovereignty was restored in late 1944, and the Ethiopian birr was reintroduced in 1945 at a rate of 1 birr = 2 shillings. Eritrea was captured from the Italians in 1941, and began using the East African shilling, as well as the Egyptian pound. The lira was demonetized in 1942. When Eritrea formed a federation with Ethiopia in 1952, the birr, which was already in use in Ethiopia, was adopted in Eritrea.\n\nA new version of the currency is proposed by the East African Community, which consists of Kenya, Tanzania, Uganda, Rwanda, Burundi, and South Sudan.\n\nIt had been proposed that the Second East African shilling be introduced into circulation in 2012, but the target was not met. A second target date was set to 2015, but also not met. The third target date is 2024.\n\nIn 1921, notes were issued by the East African Currency Board in denominations of 5, 10, 20, 100, 200, 1,000 and 10,000 shillings, with the notes of 20 shillings and above also carrying the denominations given in pounds sterling (£1, £5, £10, £50 and £500). In 1943, 1 shilling notes were issued, the only occasion that such notes were produced. 1,000 shilling notes were only issued until 1933, with 10,000 shillings notes last issued in 1947. The remaining denominations were issued until 1964.\n\nValues in shillings were written on banknotes in English, Arabic, and Gujarati, while values in pounds were written in English only.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1988525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988525", "title": "Death of a Red Heroine", "text": "Death of a Red Heroine\n\nDeath of a Red Heroine is a mystery novel written by Qiu Xiaolong and was published in English in 2000. It won the 2001 Anthony Award for best first novel.\n\nThis story is set in Shanghai in the early 1990s. One day, Guan Hongying is found dead. Chief inspector Chen Cao, along with his subordinate, Yu, start to investigate this murder case and find that this young woman lived a double life. On one side, Guan Hongying was a member of Communist Party and a popular public figure. On the other, she lived a “degenerate” lifestyle, away from the eyes of the public. This secret lifestyle brings the case into the public's attention, once this young woman dies. During the investigation, Chen and Yu discover that the number one suspect, Wu Xiaoming, is the son of Wu Bing, a high-ranking Party cadre. Wu and his father put the detectives under a huge pressure to avoid investigating, but with the help of Ling's father, Chen succeeds to save himself from the pressure and sends Wu to the court. Chen and Yu struggle to discover his motive to kill Guan. Eventually, Chen discovers her motive: Guan had been blackmailing Wu to make him leave his wife. Wu did not want Guan to jeopardize his political career. As a result, he murdered her. Chen brings these facts to the attention of his superiors.\n\n\nIn the novel, Qiu portrays the complex politics and economy of the People's Republic of China. The political tension during the early 1990s is represented through the novel's principle characters. Chen, a rising young cadre, symbolizes the new-capitalist force of Deng Xiaoping. Guan Hongying represents the old-socialist force. Wu Xiaoming, the murderer and son of a high cadre, represents the powerful old-guard cadres. Detective Yu, Chen's assistant, represents the ordinary citizens who welcome reform, yet have doubts.\n\nQiu adapts the Classical Chinese storytelling style. In Classical Chinese novels, the insertion of poetry serves as a brief introduction and conclusion to a chapter. In addition to poetry, Qiu inserts popular Chinese idioms, historical allusions, philosophical aphorism and Maoist speeches. It has been criticized that these inclusions slow down the pace and intrude the suspense that is crucial for a detective story.\n\nIn an interview, Qiu explains that he had not intended to write \"Death of a Red Heroine\" as a “detective story”. However, the genre provides him with a structure that meets his intention. His intention is to examine the old-socialist and new-capitalist tensions that occur during the early 1990s.\n\nIn 2001, \"Death of a Red Heroine\" received the Anthony Award for \"Best First Novel\" and has been nominated for the Edgar Awards for \"Best First Novel.\"\n\nThe differences of Qiu's style from traditional Western detective story have won him acclaim for “[a]n impressive and welcome respite from the typical crime novel.”\n\nScholar Liu Bai reviews the book from the perspective of trauma theory, which puts individuals' trauma on a social level to reveal the structure of power in society. In his opinion, there is a close relationship between the psychological trauma of main characters and their social power. This also reflects Qiu Xiaolong's expectation towards the society he lives in.\n\nFor example, Chen Cao is suffering from his breakup with Ling due to their differing social status. Guan Hongying's death, a form of physical trauma, is a representation of her political failure. This is an example of the many implicit power relationships found in this book.\n\nLiu also found that the book reveals Qiu Xiaolong's awareness of fighting for his own freedom of speech. In the book, Liu found the characters face a lot of anxiety in regards to their self-identification. He argues that those anxieties reflect Qiu Xiaolong's expectation to obtain acknowledgment of his own social identity as a member of ethnic minority in America.\n\nThe book was translated into Chinese by Yu Lei () under the title \"Hóng yīng zhī sǐ\" (). While sections of the text critical of the Cultural Revolution, the high cadre's children (), and the Party were faithfully translated, some sexual scenes and descriptions were removed.\n"}
{"id": "1988530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988530", "title": "Dan Bain", "text": "Dan Bain\n\nDonald Henderson \"Dan\" Bain (February 14, 1874 – August 15, 1962) was a Canadian amateur athlete and merchant. Though he competed and excelled in numerous sports, Bain is most notable for his ice hockey career. While a member of the Winnipeg Victorias hockey team from 1894 until 1902, Bain helped the team win the Stanley Cup as champions of Canada three times. A skilled athlete, he won championships and medals in several other sports and was the Canadian trapshooting champion in 1903. In recognition of his play, Bain was inducted into a number of halls of fame, including the Hockey Hall of Fame in 1949. He was also voted Canada's top athlete of the last half of the 19th century.\n\nIn his professional life Bain was a prominent Winnipeg businessman and community leader. He became wealthy as a result of operating Donald H. Bain Limited, a grocery brokerage firm. Bain was an active member of numerous community associations, the president of the Winnipeg Winter Club and an avid outdoorsman. The Mallard Lodge, a building on the shores of Lake Manitoba built by Bain as a personal retreat, today serves as a research facility for the University of Manitoba.\n\nThe son of Scottish immigrants, Bain was born in Belleville, Ontario, and as a young child moved with his family to Winnipeg, Manitoba. His father, James Henderson Bain, was a horse buyer for the British government and upon his arrival in Canada lived in Montreal before moving west. His mother, Helen Miller, was a seamstress. Bain was the sixth of seven children, having four sisters and two brothers. Bain attended school in Winnipeg and earned a bachelor's degree from Manitoba College. He began working in 1888, aged 14, serving as a bookkeeper's apprentice for a grocery broker.\n\nBain's first championship came in 1887 when he captured the Manitoba roller skating title at the age of 13 by winning a three-mile race. At the age of 17, he won the Manitoba provincial gymnastics competition, and at 20 won the first of three consecutive Manitoba cycling championships. Bain was also a top lacrosse player in his home province.\nIn 1895 Bain first played competitive ice hockey when he answered a classified ad placed in a newspaper by the Winnipeg Victorias, who were looking for new players. Though he played with a broken stick held together by wire, Bain made the team only five minutes into the tryout. He quickly became a star centre and leader of the Victorias. This was proven during a February 14, 1896, game against the Montreal Victorias for the Stanley Cup, the trophy for the national hockey championship in Canada. Bain scored a goal in a 2–0 win for Winnipeg that gave them the Cup. This victory marked the first time a team outside of Quebec had won the Stanley Cup. A huge crowd greeted the team at the Canadian Pacific Railway station when their train, decorated with hockey sticks and the Union Jack, returned to Winnipeg. They were led in a parade of open sleighs to a feast in their honour, where fans gathered to celebrate the championship.\n\nThe Montreal Victorias played Winnipeg in a challenge to reclaim the Cup in December 1896, a game described by the local press as \"the greatest sporting event in the history of Winnipeg\". Though Bain scored two goals in the game, Montreal recaptured the Cup with a 6–5 victory. Winnipeg was involved in many other Stanley Cup challenges with Bain serving as the team's captain and manager. They lost again to their Montreal counterparts in 1898 before a record crowd of over 7,000 fans.\nDuring a 1900 challenge series against the Montreal Shamrocks, Bain scored four goals in three games, but Winnipeg again lost the title. The Victorias next challenged the Shamrocks in 1901 in a best-of-three series. Winnipeg won the series in two games after Bain scored the clinching goal in overtime. It was the first time in Stanley Cup history that the winning goal was scored in extra time. Bain did so while playing with a broken nose that required him to wear a wooden face mask, earning him the nickname \"the masked man\" as a result. When the Victorias defended their title in a series against the Toronto Wellingtons in January 1902, Bain did not play in the series. The team lost their next challenge against the Montreal Hockey Club, in March of that year, which marked the end of Bain's hockey playing career. In 1911 and 1912 the Victorias, with Bain as honorary president, won the Allan Cup, which replaced the Stanley Cup as the top amateur hockey trophy in Canada in 1909. They were the first team from Western Canada to win the trophy.\n\nThroughout his sporting career, Bain also earned medals in lacrosse and snowshoeing. He was the Canadian trapshooting champion in 1903. An avid figure skater throughout much of his life, Bain won over a dozen titles, the last of which came at the age of 56. He continued to skate until the age of 70, and he remained a competitive athlete until 1930. On his skill in a variety of sports, Bain once said, \"I couldn't see any sense in participating in a game unless I was good. I kept at a sport just long enough to nab a championship, then I'd try something else.\"\n\nIn recognition of his sporting skill, Bain was inducted into several halls of fame. In 1945 when the Hockey Hall of Fame was founded, he was one of the initial 12 players selected. In 1949 he was elected a member of the International Hockey Hall of Fame.\nThis was followed in 1971 by his induction into Canada's Sports Hall of Fame, the Manitoba Sports Hall of Fame and Museum in 1981 (as an individual; he would be inducted again in 2004 along with the 1911 and 1912 Winnipeg Victorias teams), and the Manitoba Hockey Hall of Fame. Bain was also voted Canada's top sportsman of the last half of the 19th century.\n\nApart from sports, Bain was a well-known Winnipeg businessman. From his first job as a bookkeeper's apprentice at a grocery broker, he moved up to junior partner when the business was sold to one of his neighbours. By 1905 his name was added to the company's, creating Nicholson and Bain; the firm prospered, with offices across Western Canada. This partnership ended in 1917 due to differences in lifestyle between the two men. Bain renamed the firm after himself, Donald H. Bain Limited, and served as president. It was through his firm that he amassed a large fortune, and purchased several properties in and around Winnipeg. Though reserved in his personal life, Bain was known as a community leader. He helped found the Winnipeg Winter Club on land that is now the home of the naval reserve division. After the Second World War, he organized the current Winter Club. Bain also belonged to many community groups, including the Freemasons, and was the life governor of the Winnipeg General Hospital. He was also one of Western Canada's first automobile enthusiasts and owned many British vehicles. He served for a time as president of the Winnipeg Automobile Club.\n\nAs a trap-shooter, Bain developed an appreciation for nature. He bought an ownership share in the Portage Country Club, on the Delta Marsh near the south shore of Lake Manitoba, and later donated the land to Ducks Unlimited. Bain built the Mallard Lodge as a personal retreat on land adjacent to the club. He strictly enforced his privacy, even building a road to his lodge that he allowed no one else to use; members of the Portage Country Club were required to take a different route. Bain intended to donate his lodge to the government of Manitoba for preservation, though he died before he could do so. The lodge passed into the control of the government regardless, and in 1966 was donated to the University of Manitoba as a research facility that remains active today. Bain was also a member of the Manitoba Game and Fish Association and the Winnipeg Humane Society.\n\nBain never married and had no children. A quiet and reserved individual after his playing career, Bain earned a reputation as a workaholic, and was described by a friend as \"salty in speech and strongly opinionated.\" Bain upheld a strong moral code, including abstaining from alcohol, and led a frugal lifestyle. He was fond of his pets, in particular his Curly Coated Retriever dogs that he was said to value above human company. On August 15, 1962, Bain died in Winnipeg, aged 88. He left an estate in excess of C$1 million, ($ in dollars), the majority of which he donated to charity and former employees. He was buried in the cemetery of St. John's Cathedral in Winnipeg.\n"}
{"id": "1988536", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988536", "title": "Eco (currency)", "text": "Eco (currency)\n\nThe Eco is the proposed name for the common currency that the West African Monetary Zone (WAMZ) plans to introduce in the framework of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS). After its introduction, the goal is to merge the new currency with the West African CFA franc (used by most French-speaking members of ECOWAS since 1945). This will create a common currency for much of West Africa.\n\nFor the Eco to be implemented, ten convergence criteria, set out by the West African Monetary Institute (WAMI), must be met. These criteria are divided into four primary and six secondary criteria. Up to the fiscal year 2011, only Ghana has been able to meet all the primary criteria in any single fiscal year.\n\nThe four primary criteria to be achieved by each member country are: \n\nThe six secondary criteria to be achieved by each member country are:\n\nThe goal of a common currency, first in West African Monetary Institute (WAMI)/West African Monetary Zone (WAMZ) countries – The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea-Conakry (which is French speaking but does not use the CFA franc), Liberia, Nigeria and Sierra Leone – and later in the whole ECOWAS area, was officially stated in December 2000 in connection with the formal launch of WAMZ. The Eco was first planned to be introduced in 2003, but this was postponed several times, to 2005, 2010 and 2014. At a meeting of the Convergence Council of Ministers and Governors of West Africa on 25 May 2009, the start of the currency was rescheduled to 2015 due to the international economic crisis. The December 2009 meeting also established a plan to begin work to merge the Eco with the CFA franc immediately upon the launch of the Eco; this was planned to be achieved by 2020.\n\nIn 2001, the West African Monetary Institute (WAMI) was set up with headquarters in Accra, Ghana. It is to be an interim organisation in preparation for the future West African Central Bank. Its function and organisation are inspired by the European Monetary Institute. Thus, WAMI is to provide a framework for central banks in the WAMZ to start the integration and begin preliminary preparations for the printing and minting of the physical money, just as EMI did before in the Eurozone before the introduction of the euro. The current director general is J.H. Tei Kitcher.\n\nRecent assessments of member countries' efforts to meet the criteria are very bleak. The performance scorecard presented at the 2012 Annual Statutory Meetings of the WAMZ shows that GDP growth was projected to decline to 6.9% in 2012 from 8.7% in 2011. The convergence scale of the whole WAMZ area was also projected to go down from a score of 79.2% in 2011 to 62.5% in 2012; as no member met all the convergence criteria. The average annual inflation rate also increased from 11.6% in 2011 to 12.6% in 2012. The Director of Multilateral Surveillance ECOWAS Commission, Lassane Kabore, described the performance as \"dismal\", but he also affirmed the commitment of his commission to the establishment of the Eco.\n\nIn February 2018 ECOWAS affirmed its intention to restart the process with an introduction in 2020 which is strictly impossible: it is therefore a declaration of intent. On February 23, 2018, according to the economist Jean Joseph Boillot, no serious work on the technical aspects of this implementation has yet been undertaken, either at the university level or at the state level. \n\nIn June 2019, the major financiers of the 15 ECOWAS countries stressed the importance of strengthening the macroeconomic convergence of the 15 countries.\n\nRespecting the timetable for the implementation of the single currency will depend on the \"efforts\" of each country in this area, said the president of the ECOWAS Commission, Jean-Claude Brou.\n\n\"Performance in terms of macroeconomic convergence is a sine qua non\" for the single currency, insisted Adama Koné, adding that it was necessary \"to strengthen the mechanisms of multilateral surveillance\". A single currency \"will bring a lot to our savings. This is an opportunity for integration that must be seized for African countries, because the markets are [currently] fragmented.\n\nOn June 29, 2019, the leaders of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) formally adopted the name of \"eco\" for their project of the single currency and planned to introduce the currency in 2020.\n\nIn October 2019, according to the International Monetary Fund, the success of the project to replace the CFA franc in West Africa with a common currency - the eco - will depend on taking into account certain factors both political and economic. It is also worried about the slowdown in growth south of the Sahara.\n\nECOWAS leaders met on December 21, 2019, in Abuja six months after adopting the name \"eco\" for the future single currency project. This meeting came after the meeting of the committee of finance ministers and governors of central banks of the community space in the Nigerian capital.\n\n\"The recommendations report is ready to be submitted to Heads of State,\" said Nigerian Minister of Finance, Budget and Planning, Zainab Ahmed, chair of the ministerial committee.\n\nQuoted by the Nigerian press agency NAN, the chair of the ministerial committee said that only Togo, among the ECOWAS countries, would meet the main requirements or criteria for the adoption of a single currency. These criteria include convergence, the flexible exchange rate regime, the fight against insecurity and interstate collaboration.\n\nOn December 21, 2019 Ivorian President Alassane Ouattara announced that the West African CFA franc would be reformed, including renaming it the eco. Additionally, the technical links with France will be largely cut, that is to say that Paris will no longer co-manage the currency of these eight countries. Foreign exchange reserves will no longer be centralized by France and the obligation to pay 50% of these reserves to the famous French Treasury operating account disappears. In addition, France is withdrawing from the management bodies of the CFA. So far, Paris has had a representative at the BCEAO, the Central Bank of West African States, another on the banking commission, and one on the monetary policy council. However, it is the Banque de France which will remain the guarantor of the convertibility between the Eco and the Euro with which it will keep a fixed parity. It is expected that its implementation will take place by the end of 2020.\n\nOn December 22, 2019, the Managing Director of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) welcomed the major reform of the CFA franc decided by eight West African countries and France. For Kristalina Georgieva, these changes \"constitute an essential step in the modernization of long-standing agreements between the West African Economic and Monetary Union and France\".\n\nOn December 28, 2019, the President of Equatorial Guinea, Teodoro Obiang Nguema, visited Abidjan in Côte d'Ivoire. During the press point after this meeting between the two heads of state, Alassane Ouattara and Teodoro Obiang Nguema, the two heads of state also discussed the reform of the West African CFA franc. The Equatorial Guinean president would like to see the same reform for the Central African CFA franc, which he deems \"obsolete\".\n\nOn December 29, 2019, the president of Ghana expressed his desire to adopt the new eco which is being established to replace the West African CFA franc.\n\nIn January 2020, According to several articles citing local media, Nigeria would require five \"non-negotiable terms\" before joining the single currency. Some particularly mention the deposits in the French Treasury of part of the foreign exchange reserves of the future common currency. On this point, the end of this guarantee is already mentioned in the reform proposed on December 21. Still according to the Nigerian press, Abuja would also require the management of the eco by the ECOWAS itself, without forgetting its impression in Africa and not in France.\n\nSierra Leone announced on Thursday, January 9, 2020, to announce its decision on the future ECOWAS single currency, Eco, very soon. The Bank of Sierra Leone (BSL) announced on Thursday January 9, 2020 that the country will continue with Leone as its legal tender until the meeting of the Board of Governors of ECOWAS scheduled for January 16, 2020.\n\nOn January 14, 2020, the central banks of the ECOWAS sub-region began an extraordinary general assembly to deliberate on questions relating to the introduction of the single currency, the ECO, scheduled for 2020. The committee of central bank governors is also expected to discuss the implications of the recent announcement by French-speaking ECOWAS countries on the proposal to introduce the single currency ECO to replace the CFA franc. The talks will also determine the way forward for the member states of the West African Monetary Zone (WAMZ) in accordance with the roadmap for the introduction of the single currency - the CEE. The ECOWAS technical team, however, is expected to present proposals made by the West African Monetary Institute regarding the CEE. The governors should also send their recommendations to the region's heads of state to find out if the region is ready for the introduction of the single currency.\n\nOn January 16, 2020, Nigeria and several West African countries, notably English-speaking ones, denounced in Abuja the decision to replace the CFA franc by the Eco, saying that it was \"not in conformity\" with the program recently adopted by the entire region to establish a single currency.\n\nIn all cases, the six countries of the West African Monetary Zone (WAMZ) \"noted with concern the declaration aiming to unilaterally rename the CFA franc to Eco by 2020\", according to a press release issued after this extraordinary meeting between the various finance ministers and the governors of the central banks. WAMZ is made up of Nigeria, Ghana, Liberia, Sierra Leone, The Gambia and Guinea (Conakry), which is not part of the CFA zone. These countries consider that \"this action is not in accordance with the decisions\" of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) with a view to \"adopting the Eco as the name of the single currency\" of the whole region.\n\nThey \"reiterate the importance for all ECOWAS members to adhere to the decisions of the authority of the Heads of State and Government of ECOWAS concerning the implementation of the revised roadmap for the single currency program\". A summit bringing together the heads of state of the WAMZ is planned \"soon\" to decide on the conduct to come, specifies the final communiqué.\n\nTheir January 16 statement also brought to light the battle for leadership between Côte d'Ivoire and Nigeria. In publicly criticizing the decision of the West African Economic and Monetary Union (Uemoa) to rename the CFA franc “eco” by 2020, the finance ministers and central bank governors of The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Liberia, Nigeria and Sierra Leone have not only revealed the divisions of ECOWAS.\n\nOn January 31, 2020, Ivorian President Alassane Ouattara clarified the alleged rejection of the Eco by the 7 countries of the West African Monetary Zone (WAMZ). There are only five countries that ended up in Abuja out of the fifteen of the Economic Community of West African States [ECOWAS] \", he fumed, cutting the grass under his feet CFA anti-Francs, many of them shouting “white cap and white cap”.\n\n\"The majority of countries did not attend this meeting. It was not a meeting of heads of state, but of ministers and governors, \"said Ouattara. \"What we decided at the level of heads of state, our will is to bring the eco in 2020\", on the basis, he insists, of \"conditions\"\n\nThe first condition is to meet the 5 performance criteria: deficit of less than 3%, debt of less than 70%, low inflation, etc. (...). For the moment, there are only four or five countries, including Côte d'Ivoire, that meet these criteria, \"he added, stressing that the process should be\" gradual \". \"Five, eight, ten countries [meeting the criteria] can come together,\" he said, adding that others could then join them like the eurozone started at eleven and which includes ten nine countries today.\n\n“We want to do it in stages. We do not want haste, but we also do not want countries that do not meet the convergence criteria to shake up the process \", he concluded.\n\nIn February 2020, the Nigerian foreign minister revealed that the meeting attended by President Muhammadu Buhari and chaired by the President of ECOWAS, President Mahamadou Issoufou of Niger, also discussed the new single currency of the West Africa, the CEE.\n\nOn this specific point, Minister Onyeama announced that \"Nothing has changed with regard to the position of Nigeria\". He explained that according to Nigeria, the convergence criteria are not met by the majority of countries and that it is therefore necessary to extend the deadline for the launch of the ECOWAS single currency.\n\nIn February 2020, an extraordinary summit of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) took place. Many points were raised. In particular the establishment of the single currency (Eco),\n\nOn the single currency, the final communiqué which sanctioned this meeting mentions that the Conference of Heads of State and Government of the subregional organization is satisfied with the important developments initiated by the West African Economic and Monetary Union (Uemoa) in the creation of the single currency. ‘’ The Conference was informed by Alassane Ouattara, President of the Republic of Côte d'Ivoire, President of the Conference of Heads of State of Uemoa on the reform of the CFA franc. This reform is a step towards achieving the establishment of the Eco as provided for in the road map adopted by the Conference of Heads of State of ECOWAS. The Conference expressed satisfaction with these important developments and the insights provided by the president of the Conference of Heads of State of Uemoa on this issue, \" read the press release.\n\nOn 17 February 2020, the West African Economic and Monetary Union (Uemoa, eight countries) was published and its planned extension to the entire Economic Community of African States (Cedeao, 15 countries). Entitled Entry into the Era of Eco: Implications of Reform in West Africa, it aims to address the uncertainties arisen from the announcement of this substitution by Presidents Ouattara and Macron on 21 December 2019. \nThe first conclusion is that the parity maintained with the euro and France's unlimited guarantee of convertibility will maintain confidence in the new currency. This guarantee helped to contain inflation from 2000 to 2019 at an average of 2% in the Uemoa region, compared with almost 10% in Cedeao and about 16% in sub-Saharan Africa. \n\"No immediate effect\" on the sovereign rating of the states, The end of the deposit of half of the exchange reserves of the Member States of the Union with the French Treasury does not worry S-P, because the fixed exchange rate is maintained. \"That is why we believe that this reform should not have an immediate effect on our sovereign ratings,\" the authors conclude. In other words, investors don't have to worry at the moment. \nThe second conclusion is that the project to extend the eco to the fifteen members of the Cedeao seems a long way off. \"Material barriers remain, which leads us to consider this project unlikely in the medium term,\" the report says. \nFirstly because of Nigeria's weight, because Nigeria accounts for two-thirds of Cedeao's GDP and three times more than Uemoa's. But also because of its protectionist policies, says the report: \"Accepting a common monetary policy between Nigeria and its Cedeao partners therefore seems difficult, especially since Nigeria has recently decided to close its borders with Benin and Niger to reduce smuggling and support local agricultural production. \nAn extension beyond France's Uemoa guarantee would also require the approval of the Council of the European Union after consultation with the European Central Bank, which is not automatic. \nFinally, the adoption of a flexible exchange rate regime desired by Cedeao would increase the significant risks in terms of monetary shocks for Uemoa economies, particularly those that have increased their use of foreign currency borrowing in recent years. Years. years,\" says S-P, recalling the conclusion of one of its 2017 reports on the dangers of devaluation: in the event of a currency crisis and without the French guarantee, Côte d'Ivoire, Senegal and Togo, which borrowed heavily, especially in form Eurobonds, see their debt heavily set up and S-P would be forced to lower their ratings. \nThe report concludes with the recommendation to sharply improve tax revenues and a warning: \"Whatever exchange rate regime Uemoa members choose, whether it is the maintenance of the euro, the option of a basket of currency (..) or a floating rate of exchange rate, fiscal discipline and strong economic policy will be all the more important for the economic stability of the monetary union.\n\nOn 20 May 2020, the Council of Ministers of the French Republic adopted a bill according to which the Central Bank of West African States, the central bank managing the currency of the eight nations of the West African Economic and Monetary Union which use the West African CFA franc, will no longer be required to deposit half of its exchange reserves with the Public Treasury of France. Furthermore, the French government will withdraw from all governing bodies of the Central Bank of West African States; until now, both the Minister of Finance of France and the governor of the Bank of France participated in the biannual meetings of the Central Bank, one of which took place in Paris. Both houses of the French legislature, the National Assembly and the Senate, must approve the bill for its provisions to come into force. Subsequent to ratification, the eco is expected to come into use in July 2020. It remains for the nations who have proposed to adopt the single currency, whether to continue using the name ‘eco.’ France will guarantee a fixed exchange rate of 1 euro to 655.96 West African CFA francs, though this arrangement is likely to change after the introduction of the new currency.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1988545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988545", "title": "Bill Barber", "text": "Bill Barber\n\nWilliam Charles Barber (born July 11, 1952) is a Canadian former professional ice hockey forward who played twelve seasons for the Philadelphia Flyers in the National Hockey League (NHL). As part of the famed LCB (Leach, Clarke, Barber) line, Barber helped lead the Flyers to the franchise's two Stanley Cups in 1974 and 1975. He was inducted into the Hockey Hall of Fame in 1990. He is currently a scouting consultant with the Flyers.\n\nBarber was drafted by the Flyers, seventh overall, in the first round of the 1972 draft. He was called up after 11 games in the AHL with the Richmond Robins. In his first season with the Flyers, Barber scored 30 goals and 34 assists and was a contender for the Calder Memorial Trophy for rookie of the year.\n\nBarber was converted to left wing by coach Fred Shero. He scored at least 20 goals every season. His best season was 50 goals and 62 assists in the 1975–76 season. In the Flyers' successful 1974 and 1975 Stanley Cup playoffs campaigns, Barber contributed three and six goals respectively. Barber also contributed another six goals in an unsuccessful 1976 playoff run. In addition to his respectable scoring abilities, Barber was also a well rounded player. On the power play he was equally valuable for setting up the play as he was for pulling the trigger, and if forced into a defensive role, he was capable.\n\nIn the 1976 Canada Cup, Barber scored one of his most famous goals while playing for Team Canada. Behind in the final against Czechoslovakia, Barber scored to send the game into overtime, and an eventual Team Canada victory.\n\nHe was a team leader for the next decade. In 1979–80, the Flyers had their record 35-game unbeaten streak, and Barber was in the centre of it all. He helped the Flyers reach the Stanley Cup finals in the spring of 1980 with a number of key playoffs goals against the NY Rangers and Minnesota North Stars.\n\nBarber captained the Flyers in the 1981–82 season and part of 1982–83. As of the end of the 2012–13 season, he still holds the Flyers regular season career scoring record with 420 goals. He is tied for the lead for Flyers career playoffs goals with Rick MacLeish; both have 53 playoffs tallies.\n\nBarber was forced to retire as a player after the 1984–85 season after being unable to return from reconstructive knee surgery in the spring of 1984. The Flyers retired his number 7, on October 7, 1990, just after he was inducted into the Hockey Hall of Fame.\n\nOn January 14, 2017, Barber played before a sold out crowd of over 19,000 at the Wells Fargo Center in the Flyers' 50th anniversary alumni game against the alumni of the Pittsburgh Penguins, here he played alongside his longtime linemates, Bobby Clarke and Reggie Leach, and which ended in a 3–3 tie. Before to the game Barber announced that it would be his last alumni game.\n\nAfter his playing career, Barber started coaching. He coached the Hershey Bears for 16 games in 1985. He was the Flyers assistant coach between 1985–1988. After coaching the Flyers farm team (Phantoms) for four years where he won his and team's first Calder Cup in 1998. He then was the Flyers' head coach from December 2000 until April 2002, winning the Jack Adams Trophy after 2000–01.\n\nBarber was the director of player personnel for the Tampa Bay Lightning, a position he held from August 2002 to June 2008. Barber's name was added to the Stanley Cup for a third time in 2004 with Tampa Bay. On October 13, 2008, he returned to the Flyers organization when he was named a scouting consultant.\n\nBarber and his late wife, Jenny have two children. Jenny Barber died from lung cancer in 2001.\n\nOn September 25, 2010, the Bill Barber Sports Complex was opened in his honour in his hometown Callander.\n\n"}
{"id": "1988548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988548", "title": "Ben Franklin Place", "text": "Ben Franklin Place\n\nBen Franklin Place is a building complex in the Centrepointe area of Ottawa which houses the Centrepointe Branch of the Ottawa Public Library, the Centrepointe Theatre, and a satellite office for the City of Ottawa. It also includes an outdoor skating rink. Ben Franklin Place also houses an Ottawa By-Law Enforcement Office and the West Bureau of Investigations and Prevention for the Ottawa Fire Service.\n\nBuilt to house the former city of Nepean's city hall, the complex was named for the first mayor of Nepean, Ben Franklin.\n\nThe Royal Canadian Legion, Bells Corners Branch and the City of Nepean dedicated a granite War Memorial obelisk on Sunday, September 20, 1992 to those who made the supreme sacrifice, in many world conflicts.\n\nThe building also houses the counselor for College Ward currently Rick Chiarellis offices.\n"}
{"id": "1988559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988559", "title": "De Randfichten", "text": "De Randfichten\n\nDe Randfichten are a German \"Volksmusik\" (folk music) band from Johanngeorgenstadt, Saxony.\n\nFounded in 1992 as \"Original Arzgebirgische Randfichten\" by Thomas \"Rups\" Unger and Michael \"Michl\" Rostig, they were renamed to \"De Randfichten\" in 1997. In that year Thomas \"Lauti\" Lauterbach became a band member, and they released their first album \"Do pfeift dr Fuchs\".\n\nTheir song \"Lebt denn der alte Holzmichl noch?\" reached #3 of the German single charts in July 2004 and was in the German Top 100 for 56 weeks. The song is based on a traditional folk song \"Der Hausmichl\".\n\nAfter the \"Holzmichl\" song they had six other singles in the German charts, \"De lustigen Holzhackerleit\", \"Jetzt geht die Party richtig los\", \"Das kommt vom Rudern\", \"Nananana\", \"Rups am Grill\" and \"Du kleine Fliege\"; the most recent of these was in 2012.\n\nIn 2005, the group represented Saxony in the Bundesvision Song Contest 2005, with the song \"Jetzt geht die Party richtig los\", placing 6th with 71 points.\n"}
{"id": "1988563", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988563", "title": "Howard Ballard", "text": "Howard Ballard\n\nHoward Louis Ballard (born November 3, 1963) is a former American football offensive tackle in the National Football League for the Buffalo Bills and Seattle Seahawks. Nicknamed \"House\" for his sturdy build, he played in four Super Bowls and was selected to two Pro Bowls while a member of the Bills. He played college football at Alabama A&M University. \n\nAfter breaking his leg in a game, which ended his career, Ballard worked as a sheriff's deputy in Clay County, Alabama. He eventually went back to school to finish his degree, and started coaching high school football in Pike County, Alabama. Today he works at bush hills academy being a girls gym coach.\n"}
{"id": "1988564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988564", "title": "Operation Blackstone", "text": "Operation Blackstone\n\nOperation Blackstone was a part of Operation Torch, the Allied landings in North Africa during World War II. The operation called for American amphibious troops to land at and capture the French-held port of Safi in French Morocco. The landings were carried out by the 47th Infantry Regiment of the U.S. Army and took place on the morning of 8 November 1942 as part of a larger operation to capture Casablanca.\n\nThe landings from converted destroyers were mostly successful. They were initially conducted without covering fire, hoping that the French might not resist at all. When coastal batteries opened fire, the fleet returned fire. When commanding General Harmon arrived French snipers had pinned the assault troops (most of whom were in combat for the first time) on the beaches. Most of the landings occurred behind schedule; air support from the carriers destroyed a French convoy of trucks intended to reinforce the defenses.\n\nSafi surrendered on the afternoon of November 8. But sporadic resistance continued until November 10 when the remaining defenders were pinned down and the bulk of Harmon's forces raced to join the siege of Casablanca.\n\n17th Armored Engineer Battalion\n82nd Armored Reconnaissance Battalion\n\n"}
{"id": "1988570", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988570", "title": "Alexander Bulygin", "text": "Alexander Bulygin\n\nAlexander Bulygin ( – 5 September 1919) was the Minister of Interior of Russia from February 1905 until October 1905.\n\nGraduate of the Imperial School of Law, he began work in the Tambov district court in 1871. He then held various administrative offices including that of Governor of Kaluga (1887), of Moscow (1893), and assistant to the Governor-General of Moscow, Grand \nDuke Sergei Alexandrovich (1902).\n\nBulygin replaced Prince Pyotr Dmitrievich Svyatopolk-Mirsky on 20 January 1905 after strikes and protests in January. He was assisted by General Dmitri Feodorovich Trepov. Bulygin is most notable for the so-called 'Bulygin Constitution', developed in response to the 1905 Russian Revolution. Tentative proposals were made in February already. It was issued on 6 August 1905, and proposed a purely advisory Duma. According to his Memoirs Sergei Witte did not force the Tsar to sign this Manifesto; moreover he states nobody knew who wrote the Manifesto. Witte suggests a member of the Black Hundreds. The Tsar had no other choice than to accept the rescript, written by Bulygin.\nIt did not satisfy those who wanted a fully legislative assembly, and Bulygin's opponents, discontented, advocated the strikes of September and October. After these events, Bulygin (and Trepov) were sacked on 17 October 1905 and replaced by the reactionary Pyotr Nikolayevich Durnovo. After resignation Bulygin returned to the State Council.\n\nHe was shot and killed by Bolsheviks on 5 September 1919. The Ryazan Cheka were responsible.\n"}
{"id": "1988573", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988573", "title": "Elizabeth of Bohemia (1292–1330)", "text": "Elizabeth of Bohemia (1292–1330)\n\nElizabeth of Bohemia () (20 January 1292 – 28 September 1330) was a princess of the Bohemian Přemyslid dynasty who became queen consort of Bohemia as the first wife of King John the Blind. She was the mother of Emperor Charles IV, King of Bohemia.\n\nShe was the daughter of Wenceslaus II of Bohemia and Judith of Habsburg. Her mother died when Elizabeth was five years old, and of her ten children only four of them lived to adulthood: Wenceslaus, Anne, Elizabeth and Margaret. Elizabeth and her siblings also had a half-sister called Agnes. Six years after the death of her mother, her father remarried, to a Polish princess called Elizabeth Richeza, from the Piast dynasty. Elizabeth's father then gained the Crown of Poland.\n\nMany notable events occurred during Elizabeth's youth, including a devastating fire at Prague Castle in 1303, the death of her father, and the assassination of her brother Wenceslaus. Elizabeth was orphaned by the age of thirteen and lived with her sister, Anne. Her other sister, Margaret was married at the age of seven to Bolesław III the Generous, after he had come to the court of Bohemia with his mother, Elisabeth of Greater Poland.\n\nElizabeth went to live with her aunt Kunigunde in a nunnery near Prague Castle. Without a mother, Elizabeth was strongly influenced by her aunt. Her sister-in-law, Viola of Teschen and her stepmother, Elizabeth Richeza, came to live with Anne and Elizabeth until the relationship between the sisters deteriorated.\n\nIn 1306, after the murder of Elizabeth's brother Wenceslaus, Elizabeth's brother-in-law Henry became King of Bohemia. Elizabeth was now the only unmarried princess in the family, and at fourteen she was considered a good age to marry, and as a result played an important role in the power struggle for the Kingdom of Bohemia.\n\nThe quarrels of the Bohemian throne between Henry of Bohemia and Rudolph of Habsburg resulted in Rudolph taking Bohemia and marrying Queen Elizabeth Richeza. Elizabeth went to live in Prague Castle with her brother's widow, Viola Elisabeth of Cieszyn. However, on Rudolph's death in 1307 the crown returned to her brother-in-law and sister, who wanted Elizabeth to marry the Lord of Bergova (Otto of Löbdaburg) for political reasons. Elizabeth refused to marry Otto and so Elizabeth and Anne fell out with each other.\n\nAn opposition group was formed against Henry and Anne, with Elizabeth as the figurehead.\n\nElizabeth married the son of Henry VII, Holy Roman Emperor, John of Luxembourg. She knew Anna and Henry's weaknesses and this marriage was one of them. The wedding took place on 1 September 1310, after John was forced to invade Bohemia. Henry and Anne fled to Carinthia where Anne died in 1313. The coronation of John and Elizabeth took place on 7 February 1311.\n\nThe marriage was initially a disaster, as Elizabeth needed to give birth to a son to prevent the inheritance of the descendants of her sisters, Margaret and Agnes, but did not have a son until six years into the marriage, when she gave birth to Charles IV, Holy Roman Emperor.\n\nThe marriage improved for a while as the succession was safely secured, but after a while, Elizabeth grew jealous of John, who had listened to her but whose political opinions differed to hers. In 1319 an alleged plot was uncovered, to depose John and replace him with their eldest son Charles. John had the culprits punished.\n\nJohn decided to prevent his wife from interfering in the education of their children, and took the three eldest children: Margaret, Bonne, and Charles, from Elizabeth's custody. Queen Elizabeth then lived at Mělník Castle and young Charles was imprisoned by his own father, before being sent to France in 1323. He never saw his mother again.\n\nIn total isolation and abandoned by all, Elizabeth left Bohemia and went to live in exile in Bavaria. Her actions were considered an act of open hostility towards John and his nobles. In exile Elizabeth gave birth to her last children, twin daughters Anne and Elizabeth. John did not support Elizabeth during her exile. Elizabeth returned to Bohemia in 1325, with her daughter Anne, Elizabeth having died a few months before. When she returned she was ill, but she lived for another five years. Her final years were affected by her lack of finances, which made her unable to maintain a court. She eventually died of tuberculosis in 1330, at the age of thirty-eight.\n\nElizabeth and John were parents to seven children\n\n"}
{"id": "1988578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988578", "title": "Bacton, Suffolk", "text": "Bacton, Suffolk\n\nBacton is a village and civil parish in Suffolk, England, about north of Stowmarket. The village appeared as 'Bachetuna' in the Domesday Book and the area appears to have been settled at least since Roman times.\n\nAt the centre of the village is the Twelfth Century church of St Mary the Virgin, featuring a medieval wall painting. Nearby is a doctors' surgery, a primary school Bacton Primary, and an under-fives preschool, but Bacton Middle School closed in 2015 as the local authority abandoned the three-tier education system. Housing in the village is a mixture of many well-preserved centuries-old listed buildings including the 18th century Grade II* listed Bacton Manor, alongside newer individual and estate-type properties with a large proportion of bungalows. During the last thirty years there has been little new development other than occasional infill construction, but several new housing developments have now been applied for and some already approved; up to 300 new houses may be built in the next few years with a potential to almost double the population.\n\nCommunity facilities include a village hall built at the end of the nineteenth century, and community groups include a bowls club, Bacton United football club with a large number of teams, Scouts, Guides, Cubs, Brownies and Rainbows and various other clubs and societies. There's also a 16th C public house, the Bull at Bacton with a restaurant area and regular live music.\n\nFor a village of only around 1200 people, Bacton is surprisingly well served by businesses. In the heart of the village is Shop Green with a Londis general store and post office, and a petrol and service station for car sales, servicing and repairs (Lamberts Service Station). On the Northern outskirts of the village is a new-car dealership (Jefferies), and within its showroom a shop selling country clothing and Steiff collectable teddybears; also on the site is the brewery shop of the Humber Doucy Brewing Company, located elsewhere in the village. Further along the B1113 and still in Bacton is Finbow's Yard, a small trading estate which is home to a range of businesses including car sales, furniture store, white goods dealer and repairer, hairdressers, the Heart of Suffolk Distillery (home of Betty's Gin) and a large hardware store and builders merchants, with its builders yard across the road in Cotton, alongside Emzo's gift shop & coffee shop.\n\nThe Great Eastern Main Line railway between London and Norwich runs through the east end of the village, but Finningham railway station and its goods yard, which was situated in Bacton, was closed in the Beeching cuts of the sixties and only the station building remains, now a private house. However rail access to London via the nearby town of Stowmarket in 80 minutes has encouraged an influx of townies into what was previously a very localised community. The village has enjoyed a regular bus service till now but this is soon to be cut to a minimum or removed altogether, forcing people without cars to rely on taxis or very limited community transport. Larger modern housing exists alongside typical Suffolk cottage type property.\n\nThe parish of Bacton includes the village, the adjoining hamlet of Earl's Green and the outlying settlements of Bacton Green, Canham's Green, Cow Green and Ford's Green. Together with Tailor's Green and Shop Green within Bacton village, the parish has seven registered village greens. A Parish Plan was produced in 2009.\n\nOutside the Londis shop there is a small pond which can freely be fished for goldfish, roach, koi and mirror carp. The koi average around five pounds, while there is allegedly a large mirror carp of twenty pounds in the pond.\n\nThe village hall is located just across the road from the church and is a regular meeting place for the village's Brownies and Rainbows. The Pre-School group has its own adjacent premises. The church also has a community room with kitchen facilities used by some village groups.\n\nBacton United '89 FC opened their new facilities in July 2010 at Brickwall meadow on Broad Road. There are two adult sized pitches, a junior pitch and a clubhouse. The adult first team, reserves and 'A' team all play in the Suffolk & Ipswich football league and share the use of the main pitches. There are also several junior teams of all age groups playing at Brickwall meadow and other local pitches. The 1st Team at Bacton won the Suffolk Junior Cup in both 2010-11 season and more recently in 2017. The clubhouse is another location available for hire for social occasions, with a well-equipped bar.\n\n"}
{"id": "1988582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988582", "title": "Kovač (surname)", "text": "Kovač (surname)\n\nKovač (Cyrillic: Ковач), meaning \"blacksmith\" in Slavic languages, is a common surname in Croatia, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Slovenia and Serbia. In Slovakia the surname is Kováč (feminine: Kováčová). \n\nKovač is a common surname in Croatia, with 9,614 carriers (2011 census), most of them living in northern and eastern parts of the country and in Serbia with 8,749 people bearing it. In Slovenia, some 4,800 have this surname. Outside Europe, the surname is fairly common in the United States (especially Texas and California), Canada, and South America.\n\nThe surname Kovács is the Hungarian loanword of this word, and is one of the most frequent surnames in Hungary. The Romanian form is Covaci, and it is also a relatively frequent surname in Romania. The derivative forms Kovačić or Slovenian Kovačič, as well as Kovačević and Bulgarian Kovachev, are also very common.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1988584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988584", "title": "Western Digital FD1771", "text": "Western Digital FD1771\n\nThe FD1771 is the first in a line of floppy disk controllers produced by Western Digital. It uses single density (FM) modulation and supports the IBM 3740 disk format. It is packaged in a 40-pin DIP.\n\nThe FD1771 was succeeded by many derivatives that were mostly software-compatible:\n\nMany compatible chips were available from other vendors:\n\nThese families were used in many microcomputers and home computers including the Radio Shack TRS-80, Acorn Electron, BBC Master, Atari ST, Acorn Archimedes and the SAM Coupé, as well as the +D and DISCiPLE disk interfaces for the Sinclair ZX Spectrum, the Commodore 157x/1581 for the Commodore 64 and the Atari XF551 for the Atari XL/XE.\n"}
{"id": "1988589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988589", "title": "Stowupland", "text": "Stowupland\n\nStowupland is a village east of Stowmarket, Suffolk, England. Stowupland High School is found in the village.\n\nStowupland is centred on several village greens and was the winner of the Suffolk \"Village of the Year\" competition in 2006. The village has numerous amenities including, a petrol station, two butchers, a Chinese takeaway, a chip shop and two public houses - The Crown and The Retreat. As well as the high school there is a primary school - Freeman Community School, which has an attached pre-school. There are active football (Stowupland Falcons), cricket and bowls clubs in the village. A lottery grant funded gym and indoor sports facility is available for public use at the high school.\n\nThe village implements a \"Parish Plan\" to help steer the development of the village. The plan was produced following the completion and analysis of a questionnaire that was sent to every dwelling and allows residents to have a degree of say in what happens in the village. One of the main aims is to try to maintain Stowupland's separation from the nearby market town of Stowmarket which has expanded considerably in recent years with just a single field now separating properties in Stowmarket from Stowupland.\nA monthly magazine, \"The Telstar\", is delivered free to every household and contains reports from parish and local council as well as various articles from residents, clubs and churches in the village.\nStowupland previously hosted an event (Music on The Green).\n\nThe A1120 tourist route runs through the village and the A14 trunk road is located just to its south.\n\n"}
{"id": "1988590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988590", "title": "Bobby Bauer", "text": "Bobby Bauer\n\nRobert Theodore \"Bobby\" Bauer (February 16, 1915 – September 16, 1964) was a Canadian professional ice hockey right winger who played 10 seasons in the National Hockey League (NHL) for the Boston Bruins. He was a member of the famed \"Kraut Line\" with teammates Milt Schmidt and Woody Dumart. The trio led the Bruins to two Stanley Cup championships and became the first line to finish first, second and third in NHL scoring, in 1939–40. Bauer was named to the All-Star Team four times and was a three-time winner of the Lady Byng Trophy, awarded for gentlemanly conduct combined with a high calibre of play. He recorded only 36 penalties in minutes in 327 games.\n\nPrior to his NHL career, Bauer won the Memorial Cup with the St. Michael's Majors in 1934 as junior champions of Canada. He joined the Royal Canadian Air Force in 1942 and won the Allan Cup with the Ottawa RCAF Flyers as senior champions that year. Bauer turned to coaching following his NHL career and guided the Kitchener-Waterloo Dutchmen to two Allan Cup championships. The Dutchmen were sent to represent Canada at the 1956 Winter Olympics where Bauer coached the team to a bronze medal. He also coached the Canadian entry at the 1960 Winter Olympics that won a silver medal. Bauer assisted his brother David in creating the Canadian national hockey team in the 1960s. He was inducted into the Hockey Hall of Fame in 1996.\n\nBauer was born on February 16, 1915, in Waterloo, Ontario. He was the second of 11 children to Edgar and Alice Bauer; His elder brother Frank was later Mayor of Waterloo and he had nine younger siblings: Eugene, Jerome, Alice, David, Raymond, Mary, Rita, Therese and Margaret. Edgar was a Knight of the Order of St. Sylvester, Waterloo city councilor and executive in the Bauer family's automotive parts business.\n\nThe Bauer children learned to play hockey in a backyard rink, and Bobby grew up playing youth hockey in Kitchener–Waterloo before moving to Toronto in 1930 where he attended St. Michael's College School and played junior first with the St. Michael's Buzzers in 1930–31 followed by three years with the St. Michael's Majors. In 1933–34, Bauer recorded 15 points in 13 Memorial Cup playoff games to help the Majors capture the Dominion junior championship. Bauer played his final year of junior in 1934–35 with the Kitchener Greenshirts where he first played with Milt Schmidt and Woody Dumart, who was then a defenceman.\n\nAll three players were signed by the Boston Bruins, and Bauer was assigned to the Boston Cubs of the Canadian-American Hockey League (CAHL) for the 1935–36 season. He scored 15 goals for the Cubs in 48 games, then was promoted to the Providence Reds of the International-American Hockey League (IAHL) in 1936–37. It was with the Reds that Bauer as right wing, Schmidt at centre and Dumart, who moved up to left wing, were first placed together as a line. Owing to their shared German heritage, the trio were initially called the \"Sauerkrauts\" by Providence coach Albert Leduc, though the name was shortened and they were known as the \"Kraut Line\" for the majority of their careers. Following a season in which Bauer recorded 18 points in 44 games with the Reds, the Bruins recalled him to Boston for the team's final game of the regular season. He made his NHL debut on March 21, 1937, and scored his first goal in a 6–1 victory over the Chicago Black Hawks.\n\nThe Kraut Line earned full-time spots in Boston beginning in 1937–38; Bauer recorded a team-leading 20 goals in his rookie season as the trio led the Bruins to the team's first of four consecutive Prince of Wales Trophy wins as the NHL's best team in the regular season. Following a 31-point regular season in 1938–39, Bauer added five points in 12 playoff games and was named to the NHL's second All-Star Team. The Bruins eliminated the New York Rangers, then defeated the Toronto Maple Leafs four games to one to capture Boston's first Stanley Cup championship in ten years. In 1939–40, Schmidt led the NHL in points with 52 while Dumart and Bauer finished second and third respectively with 43 each. It was the first time in league history that three linemates finished in the top three spots in NHL scoring. Bauer was again named a second team All-Star, and with only two penalties in minutes (PIM), won the Lady Byng Trophy for the first time.\nA 39-point season in 1940–41 with only two PIM earned Bauer his third consecutive appearance on the All-Star Team and a second Lady Byng Trophy. In the playoffs, the Bruins reached the 1941 Stanley Cup Finals where they defeated the Detroit Red Wings in four straight games. Bauer scored the Stanley Cup winning goal midway through the second period of a 3–1 victory in the deciding game. Following the outbreak of the Second World War, all three members of the Kraut Line enlisted with the Canadian military by signing up for home defence. At the same time, anti-German sentiment led to efforts to change the trio's nickname. They were briefly called the \"Buddy Line\" and the \"Kitchener Kids\", though they were again referred to as the Kraut Line following the war.\n\nThe trio were called to active duty in January 1942, forcing them to leave the Bruins midway through the 1941–42 season. In their final game with the Bruins, the Kraut Line recorded eight points in a dominating victory over the Montreal Canadiens. Following the contest, players from both teams fêted the trio, hoisting them up on their shoulders and parading them around the ice. Bauer was overwhelmed by the moment: \"The ovation, at the height of my youth, sort of grabbed me.\" Schmidt, Dumart and Bauer were the first NHL players to join the Royal Canadian Air Force, and while training in Ottawa, they joined the Ottawa RCAF Flyers of the Quebec Senior Hockey League (QSHL). The trio helped the Flyers win the Allan Cup as Canadian senior champions. Bauer was sent to Halifax to continue his training and played with the Dartmouth RCAF team in 1942–43. Bauer, who served as a radio technician, was dispatched to the United Kingdom where he, Schmidt and Dumart were members of a bomber squadron. However, he was returned to Canada in 1944 after being ruled invalid due to a bout of sciatica caused by an old hockey injury. He played with a team in Toronto until the war's conclusion.\n\nReturning to the Bruins for the 1945–46 NHL season, Bauer was reunited with his Kraut Line teammates. Unlike many players who had left for the war, he remained in peak form. However, after scoring 22 points that season, Bauer contemplated retirement. He chose to return for one additional season and was named the Bruins captain for 1946–47. Bauer had his best year in the NHL: he recorded a team-leading 30 goals and finished seventh overall in league scoring with 54 points. He was named to a fourth All-Star Team and won the Lady Byng Trophy for the third time. Following the season, he announced his retirement.\n\nReturning to Kitchener, Bauer joined the Bauer Skate Company, his father-in-law's hockey equipment business. He also began his coaching career with the Ontario Hockey Association (OHA)'s Guelph Biltmore Mad Hatters and, late in the 1947–48 season, joined the Kitchener-Waterloo Dutchmen in the OHA senior division. After recording 15 points in eight games, Bauer scored 38 and 24 points in the following two seasons and helped the Dutchmen reach the OHA finals in three consecutive years between 1948 and 1950. He again retired as a player in 1950, but came back in 1951–52 for a final season with Kitchener-Waterloo. Late in the season, he also played in one final game with the Bruins. The team was celebrating \"Milt Schmidt-Woody Dumart appreciation night\" and convinced Bauer to come out of retirement to reunite the Kraut Line for one game on March 18, 1952. The trio were presented gifts in honour of their service to the team and sport. In the contest itself, Bauer scored one goal in a 4–0 victory over Toronto and assisted (along with Dumart) on Schmidt's 200th career goal – at the time a rare feat; Schmidt was one of only five active players at that point to have reached the mark.\n\nEnding his playing career, Bauer became coach, general manager and president of the Dutchmen in 1952. He coached the team to two OHA senior championships and Allan Cup victories: 1952–53 and 1954–55. As the top senior team in the nation, the Dutchmen were sent to Italy to represent Canada at the 1956 Winter Olympics. Bauer was pleased with the way his team adapted to European rules and the Dutchmen were expected to bring home the gold medal. However, the team was shocked by the American entry, a 4–1 loss. Though they still had a chance at gold due to the round robin format of the tournament, the Dutchmen were defeated by the Soviet Union – at the time a relatively unknown and emerging hockey power – by a 2–0 score despite outshooting the Soviets 23–9. Canada was relegated to the bronze medal, at the time the worst finish in the nation's Olympic hockey history.\n\nBauer retired as a coach following the Olympics. However, the Dutchmen, augmented by players loaned from other teams, were again sent to represent Canada at the 1960 Winter Olympics. The team's coach, Bill Durnan resigned following a six-game losing streak, and after several other candidates were unable to take the necessary time off to coach the squad at the tournament, the Canadian Amateur Hockey Association (CAHA) convinced Bauer to return. The Canadians lost only one game in the tournament, to the United States. The final game of the tournament had been scheduled between Canada and the Soviet Union as it was expected to be the gold medal match-up. However the Americans won all of their games. Consequently, the match determined the silver medal, which Canada claimed with an 8–5 victory.\n\nBauer partnered in a Guelph-based electronics company and resided in Kingston with his wife Marguerite and sons Bobby Jr., and Bradley. He also partnered with Woody Dumart in a stick manufacturing company and was a director of the Kitchener Rangers hockey club. His brother, Father David Bauer, convinced CAHA officials in 1962 to abandon the practice of sending a club team to represent Canada internationally in favour of building a true Canadian National Team. Bobby assisted his brother's efforts in creating the team by sharing his coaching knowledge and helping to formulate how the team was to be formed. The first national team played at the 1964 Winter Olympics where it finished a controversial fourth. On September 16, 1964, Bauer suffered a heart attack while golfing and died at the age of 49. He was posthumously inducted into the Hockey Hall of Fame by the veterans committee in 1996.\n"}
{"id": "1988595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988595", "title": "Herzog Ernst", "text": "Herzog Ernst\n\nHerzog Ernst is a German epic from the early high Middle Ages (c. 1180), first written down by an anonymous author from the Rhine region.\n\nThe main theme of the story is an argument between a Bavarian duke (Herzog Ernst) and his stepfather Kaiser Otto I. The story is split into two parts:\n\nThe epic blends together two historical events: an argument between Herzog Liudolf and his father Otto I in 953–954; and the rebellion of Herzog Ernst II from Swabia (born 1007) against his stepfather King Konrad II in 1026–1027\n\nThis story was very popular in the Middle Ages in Germany, as evidenced by the number of manuscripts that have been found in a wide range of places. It was popular due to its fantastical descriptions of the Orient and far away lands (a popular topic due to the Second Crusade), and also its introduction of the concept of chivalry.\n\nHerzog Ernst is usually grouped under the heading 'Spielmannsdichtung' or 'Spielmannsepos'. This term is used to describe a handful of other manuscripts of the time, due to the assumption that they were written and told by Spielmänner (a kind of jester). However, this term has recently been disputed, as these works are considered too complex to have been written by Spielmänner, who are generally thought to have been uneducated.\n\nThe following were also produced around this period:\n\nFull text (in German)\n"}
{"id": "1988598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988598", "title": "Mendlesham", "text": "Mendlesham\n\nMendlesham, Suffolk is a village with 1407 inhabitants as of the 2011 Census. It lies north east of Stowmarket and from London.\n\nThe place-name 'Mendlesham' is first attested in the Domesday Book of 1086, where it appears as \"Melnesham\" and \"Mundlesham\". The name means 'Myndel's village'.\n\nMendlesham is known for its large street fair which is held on every May Day bank holiday. Mendlesham has a popular community newsletter, and a good primary school. There is one public house in the village called 'The King's Head'. The village has a few shops including Mendlesham Bakery, Mendlesham Fish 'N' Chip Shop and a post office at the back of The King's Head.\n\nNearby at is the Mendlesham transmitting station which broadcasts Kiss 105-108 (previously Vibe FM) on 106.4 MHz and the Digital One digital radio multiplex, and which was formerly used for VHF 405 line transmissions of Anglia Television. The mast stands at the corner of the former WWII airfield, RAF Mendlesham. This was used by the RAF and US Eighth Air Force between 1943 and 1955, and once held a memorial to the US 34th Bomb Group. The memorial has now been moved to the churchyard of St. Mary's in Mendlesham. Although some of the land has reverted to agriculture or is an industrial estate, one airstrip is now used by the Suffolk Coastal Floaters Hang Gliding Club.\n\nThere are also three churches, including the grand medieval St. Mary's, built at a time when the village had a much larger population.\nIn 1531 , the Mendlesham Christian Brethren were a group of Protestant dissenters, and two decades later, Adam Foster became a Marian martyr, after he refused to attend a Roman Catholic mass. He was condemned to be burnt at the stake by John Hopton, the Bishop of Norwich.\n\nMendlesham had the second station on the Mid-Suffolk Light Railway, which ran from 1904 to 1952.\n\nMendlesham Manor is an Elizabethan Manor House.\n\nClose to Mendlesham is the hamlet of Mendlesham Green, which contains Mendlesham Green Baptist Church.\n\nThe village was struck by an F0/T1 tornado on 23 November 1981, as part of the record-breaking nationwide tornado outbreak on that day.\n\nFoxe's Book of Martyrs\n\n"}
{"id": "1988606", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988606", "title": "List of Victory ships", "text": "List of Victory ships\n\nThis is a list of Victory ships. Victory ships were a type of cargo ship which were mass-produced in the United States during World War II.\n\nIn the following list, \"Keel\" refers to the date of the keel laying, \"Launch\" to the launch date, and \"Delivery\" to the ship's completion date. \n\nThe \"MC Hull No.\" is a unique number assigned by the United States Maritime Commission (\"MC\" for \"Maritime Commission\"). \n\nGaps in the hull numbers correspond to ships whose contracts were cancelled.\n"}
{"id": "1988615", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988615", "title": "The Big Picture (song)", "text": "The Big Picture (song)\n\n\"The Big Picture\" is a song by Y Kant Tori Read, commercially released by Atlantic Records in 1988 exclusively as a 7\" vinyl single in a generic picture sleeve. Two versions of a promotional 7\" vinyl were also released, one with light blue labels and one with dark blue labels. A 12\" promotional vinyl single was also issued with an accompanying picture sleeve. The song was a commercial failure and received absolutely no critical comment.\n\nA video clip for \"The Big Picture\" was shot by Marty Callner. The only band member to appear in it is Tori Amos. It is typical of the era, featuring a scantily clad Amos cavorting and wreaking havoc on a sound-stage made to resemble the back alleys of Los Angeles. It is notable for a narrative introductory bit during which Amos argues with a police officer about her illegally parked car. Amos' excuse is that someone broke into her car and stole her underwear: \"That's gross!\" The officer, undeterred, hands her the ticket and walks off with her garter belt hanging out of his back pocket.\n\nNotably, graphic artist Rantz Hoseley, a friend of Amos' at the time, appears in the video as a street punk upon whose pants Amos spray-paints. Hoseley went on to edit the best selling Amos-themed comic anthology \"Comic Book Tattoo\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1988618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988618", "title": "Onufri", "text": "Onufri\n\nOnufri Argitis or Onoufrios of Neokastro or Onoufrios Argytes () was an Orthodox icon painter and Archpriest of Elbasan, active in the 16th century in southern Albania and south-western Macedonia. His works are characterized by post-Byzantine and Venetian influences. He also painted portraits, landscapes, and churches.\n\nLittle is known with certainty about Onufri's life and his existence only emerged in the early 20th century. Regarding his birthplace only an inscription in the Holy Apostles church, near Kastoria has survived. Onufri is believed to have been born in the early 16th century either in the region of Berat (in today's Albania) or near Kastoria or Grevena (in today's northern Greece). The epithet \"Argitis\", which appears in a fresco near Kastoria may point to Argos as his place of birth, although as he used it only once it is regarded probable that it refers to a location in the area of Kastoria. His flawless Greek calligraphic inscriptions is an indicator that he received high-level education. He was educated in the Republic of Venice and was a member of the Greek Brotherhood of Venice.\n\nIn the climate of the time, the painting of Christian icons can be seen as an act to restore pre-Ottoman culture. He was active in Berat and possibly Venice until 1547. Then he worked in both Berat and Kastoria and in 1555, in Shelcan near Elbasan. He may have also been the painter of various murals in the church of St. Nicholas near Prilep (North Macedonia). After 1554, he lived and painted in the village of Valsh. In a number of churches his works were signed with the title \"Protopapas\" (), demonstrating a senior position in the church hierarchy. However, his signature has not been preserved on icons that have been also attributed to him such as a Dodekaorton icon at that is preserved at the National Museum of Medieval Art in Korce.\nOnufri introduced greater realism and individuality into facial expressions, breaking with the strict conventions of the time. He was the first to introduce the colour pink into icon painting. The secret of this colour was not passed on and died with him. His work is noted for the intense use of colours and the use of natural dyes. \nAccording to Georgios Golobias the works of Onufri were significantly influenced by western art, as a result of his possible stay in Venice, being a member of the local Greek fraternity. On the other hand, Manolis Chatzidakis claims that western traces are few and they can be explained due to the contact with the paintings of the Cretan School.\n\nOnufri founded a school of painting in Berat, which was passed on to his son Nikolla, and upon his death to Onouphrios Cypriotes (Onufri Cypriota) and Kostandin Shpataraku.\n\n"}
{"id": "1988619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988619", "title": "Clint Benedict", "text": "Clint Benedict\n\nClinton Stevenson \"Praying Benny\" Benedict (September 26, 1892 – November 12, 1976) was a Canadian professional Lacrosse goalie, ice hockey goaltender who played for the Ottawa Senators and the Montreal Maroons. He played on four Stanley Cup-winning squads. He was the first goaltender in the National Hockey League (NHL) to wear a face mask. He led league goaltenders in shutouts seven times over his professional career. He is a member of the Hockey Hall of Fame.\n\nBenedict played for the Ottawa Stars Lacrosse Club, winning the City Championship in 1911. He later played professionally with the Ottawa Capitals Lacrosse Club earning distinction for his tenacity under fire. This helped him immeasurably in his transition into professional hockey.\n\nBenedict was one of the first great goalies in professional hockey and a great innovator in the sport. He was the first goalie to drop to his knees to stop the puck along the ice; at the time, dropping to the ice was illegal. This earned him the nickname \"Praying Benny.\" The first rule change the NHL made legalized his playing style.\n\nBenedict played senior-level hockey at 17, playing for the Ottawa Stewartons of the Ottawa City league in 1909–10, moving to the Ottawa New Edinburghs of the Inter-provincial Amateur Hockey Union the following season. Benedict joined the Ottawa Senators of the National Hockey Association (NHA) in the 1912–13 season. Although the Senators had at the time future Hall of Famer Percy LeSueur as their starting goaltender, Benedict played 10 games for the club. He played one more season as backup to LeSueur and took over as starting goaltender in the 1914–15 season. He led the league in Goals Against Average (GAA) that season and the following two seasons to start his career. He played 12 seasons overall for the Senators.\n\nAfter winning three Stanley Cups with the Senators, his career changed in the 1923–24 season. Benedict developed a problem with drinking, which at first was kept secret by the Senators. Benedict occasionally played for the Senators while under the effects. In the playoffs, Benedict and the Senators played poorly and were quickly eliminated. Management withheld some of his salary for his behaviour. Benedict sued the team in return and the Senators countersued, revealing in court documents the extent of Benedict's behaviour. Once the Ottawa papers found out about the court case, the secret was out. The two sides quickly settled to minimize the publicity.\n\nBenedict's career with the Senators was finished. On October 20, 1924, Benedict was traded along with Punch Broadbent to the expansion Montreal Maroons. It was a new lease on life for Benedict who played for six seasons with the Maroons. In 1926, he won another Stanley Cup with the Maroons.\n\nIn 1930, some 30 years before Jacques Plante popularized the goalie mask, Clint was the first goalie to wear facial protection in the NHL with the Montreal Maroons using it for five games during the 1929–30 season. On January 7, 1930, he was hit by a shot from Howie Morenz in the face, breaking the bridge of his nose. Benedict was out of action for six weeks. He returned on February 20, 1930 against the New York Americans wearing the mask. He played with a mask for five games in total and according to Douglas Hunter, Benedict modified or tried different masks during the sequence of games. His last game wearing a mask was on March 4, 1930 when he got hit in the face during a goal-mouth scramble. He had to leave the game due to blood coming from his nose. When asked about his short-lived face mask Benedict remarked: \nThe game against Ottawa was his last game in the NHL. In June 1930, Benedict was placed on waivers. The next season, he played for the Windsor Bulldogs senior hockey team, the Maroons farm team, leading them to the IHL championship. In 1932, Benedict became manager and coach of Saint John Beavers of the Maritime Senior Hockey League, a position he held for two seasons. Benedict was inducted into the Hockey Hall of Fame in 1965, much later than would be expected of a player of his ability and career and possibly due to the events of 1924. Benedict lived to 84 years of age, dying in 1976 in Ottawa.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1988622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988622", "title": "Female sexual arousal disorder", "text": "Female sexual arousal disorder\n\nFemale sexual arousal disorder (FSAD) is a disorder characterized by a persistent or recurrent inability to attain sexual arousal or to maintain arousal until the completion of a sexual activity. The diagnosis can also refer to an inadequate lubrication-swelling response normally present during arousal and sexual activity. The condition should be distinguished from a general loss of interest in sexual activity and from other sexual dysfunctions, such as the orgasmic disorder (anorgasmia) and hypoactive sexual desire disorder, which is characterized as a lack or absence of sexual fantasies and desire for sexual activity for some period of time.\n\nAlthough female sexual dysfunction is currently a contested diagnostic, it has become more common in recent years to use testosterone-based drugs off-label to treat FSAD.\n\nA number of studies have explored the factors that contribute to female sexual arousal disorder and female orgasmic disorder. These factors include both psychological and physical factors. Psychologically, possible causes of the disorder include the impact of childhood and adolescence experiences and current events – both within the individual and within the current relationship.\n\nThere has been little investigation of the impact of individual factors on female sexual dysfunction. Such factors include stress, levels of fatigue, gender identity, health, and other individual attributes and experiences, such as dysfunctional sexual beliefs that may affect sexual desire or response. Over exposure to pornography-style media is also thought to lead to poor body image, self-consciousness and lowered self-esteem. An individual's sexual activity is disrupted by overwhelming emotional distress resulting in inability to attain sexual pleasure. Sexual dysfunction can also occur secondary to major psychiatric disorders, including depression.\n\nA substantial body of research has explored the role of interpersonal factors in female sexual dysfunction, particularly in relation to orgasmic response. These studies have largely focused on the impact of the quality of the relationship on the sexual functioning of the partners. Some studies have evaluated the role of specific relationship variables, whereas others have examined overall relationship satisfaction. Some studies have explored events, while others have focused on attitudes as an empirical measure of relationship functioning. Subject populations have varied from distressed couples to sexually dysfunctional clients to those in satisfied relationships.\n\nIn addition to past experience and personal psychology, social context plays a factor:\n\nEstimates of the percentage of female sexual dysfunction attributable to physical factors have ranged from 30% to 80%. The disorders most likely to result in sexual dysfunction are those that lead to problems in circulatory or neurological function. These factors have been more extensively explored in men than in women. Physical etiologies such as neurological and cardiovascular illnesses have been directly implicated in both premature and retarded ejaculation as well as in erectile disorder, but the contribution of physiological factors to female sexual dysfunction is not so clear. However, recent literature does suggest that there may be an impairment in the arousal phase among diabetic women. Given that diabetic women show a significant variability in their response to this medical disorder, it is not surprising that the disease's influence on arousal is also highly variable. In fact, the lack of a clear association between medical disorders and sexual functioning suggests that psychological factors play a significant part in the impact of these disorders on sexual functioning.\n\nKenneth Maravilla, Professor of Radiology and Neurological Surgery and Director of MRI Research Laboratory at the University of Washington, Seattle, presented research findings based on neuro-imaging of women's sexual function. In a small pilot study of four women with female sexual arousal disorder, Maravilla reported there was less brain activation seen in this group, including very little activation in the amygdala. These women also showed increased activation in the temporal areas, in contrast to women without sexual difficulties, who showed deactivation in similar areas. This may suggest an increased level of inhibition with an arousal stimulus in this small group of women with FSAD.\n\nSeveral types of medications, including selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), can cause sexual dysfunction and in the case of SSRI and SNRI, these dysfunctions may become permanent after the end of the treatment.\n\nKaplan proposed that sexual dysfunction was based on intrapsychic, interpersonal, and behavioural levels. Four factors were identified that could have a role in the development of sexual dysfunction: 1) lack of correct information regarding sexual and social interaction, 2) unconscious guilt or anxiety regarding sex, 3) performance anxiety, and 4) failure to communicate between the partners.\n\nThe DSM-5 lists the diagnostic criteria as including a minimum of three of the following:\n\n\nThe DSM-IV (American Psychiatric Association 1994) diagnostic criteria were:\n\n\nMarita P. McCabe noted:Difficulties arise with this definition in terms of what constitutes an adequate lubrication-swelling response. There is no \"gold standard\" regarding the length of time it should take to become aroused or the level of arousal that should be achieved. These responses may vary from one woman to another and are dependent on a range of factors, which include her general mood when sexual stimulation commences and her partner’s skill in stimulating her. There may also be differences in physiological and subjective levels of arousal, with some women reporting no feelings of sexual arousal despite evidence of vaginal vasocongestion and others reporting arousal in the absence of such evidence. The expectations and past experiences of clinicians and clients may also lead them to classify the same symptoms as female sexual arousal disorder in one woman but not in another.\n\nThere are several subtypes of female sexual arousal disorders. They may indicate onset: lifelong (since birth) or acquired. They may be based on context: they may occur in all situations (generalized) or be situation-specific (situational). For example, the disorder may occur with a spouse but not with a different partner.\n\nThe length of time the disorder has existed and the extent to which it is partner- or situation-specific, as opposed to occurring in all situations, may be the result of different causative factors and may influence the treatment for the disorder. It may be due to psychological factors or a combination of factors.\n\nThe FDA has approved flibanserin and bremelanotide for low sexual libido in women.\n\nOne problem with the current definition in the DSM-IV is that subjective arousal is not included. There is often no correlation between women's subjective and physiological arousal. With this in mind, recently, FSAD has been divided up into sub-types: \nThe third sub-type is the most common in clinical settings.\n\nOne of the largest criticisms for female sexual arousal disorder is whether it is an actual disorder or an idea put forth by pharmaceutical companies in order to step into a potentially billion dollar industry; see \"Orgasm Inc.\" There is also concern that this ignores those women who have experienced a significant loss of libido following hysterectomy.\n\nThe only mention of female sexual arousal disorder in a peer-reviewed medical journal indicated that 43% of women suffer from FSAD, however the survey turned out to not be a rigorous study. Of the handful of questions, if any respondent answered yes at any time, they were classified as having FSAD. Here are the questions asked that respondents could only choose a response of Yes or No:\n\nFurthermore, the author Edward O. Laumann turned out to have financial ties to Pfizer, creator of Viagra.\n\nAnother criticism, for example, is that \"the meaningful benefits of experimental drugs for women's sexual difficulties are questionable, and the financial conflicts of interest of experts who endorse the notion of a highly prevalent medical condition are extensive.\"\n\nProfessor of bioethics and sociology Jennifer R. Fishman argues that the categorization of female sexual dysfunction as a treatable disease has only been made possible through the input of academic clinical researchers. Through ethnographic research, she believes she has shown how academic clinical researchers have provided the scientific research needed by pharmaceutical companies to bio-medicalize female sexual dysfunction and consequently identify a market of consumers for it. She questions the professional ethics of this exchange network between researchers and pharmaceutical companies, as the clinical research trials are funded by pharmaceutical companies and researchers are given considerable financial rewards for their work. She argues that the conferences where definition of the disease and diagnostic criteria are defined and research is presented to clinicians are also ethically ambiguous, as they are also funded by pharmaceutical companies.\n\nIt is also worth noting that female sexual arousal disorder is rarely a solitary diagnosis. Due to its high rates of comorbidity with hypoactive sexual desire disorder, a new disorder is being proposed for the DSM-5: Sexual Interest/Arousal Disorder. The diagnostic criterion \"persistent or recurrent\" symptoms is also problematic in that it is vague and could lead to too much reliance on clinical judgment.\n\nHeather Hartely of Portland State University, Oregon is critical of the shift from female sexual dysfunction being framed as an arousal problem to a desire problem. In her article, \"The 'Pinking' of Viagra Culture\", she states that the change from female sexual arousal disorder to hypoactive sexual desire disorder is indicative of \"disease mongering\" tactics by the drug industry through an effort to match up a drug to some subcomponent of the DSM classification.\n\nAdditionally, Leonore Tiefer of NYU School of Medicine voiced concerns that the success of Viagra, in combination with feminist rhetoric, were being used as a means of fast-tracking public acceptance of pharmaceutical treatment of female sexual arousal disorder. The justification behind this, she says, is that \"the branding of Viagra has succeeded so thoroughly in rationalizing the idea of sexual correction and enhancement through pills that it seems inevitable and \"only fair\" that such a product be made available for women,\" giving a dangerous appeal to \"nonapproved drugs though off-label prescribing\".\n\nNatural variation could be overlooked because there are no specific duration or severity criteria for diagnosis. Therefore, the duration criterion of symptoms lasting at least 6 months and the severity criterion of symptoms during 75% or more of sexual encounters have been proposed.\n\nDiagnosis based on insufficient vaginal lubrication/swelling is problematic because women's genital arousal may be an \"automatic response\" that they are unaware of. Furthermore, there is little evidence that women with sexual arousal disorder have a poor lubrication/swelling response.\n\n"}
{"id": "1988627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988627", "title": "Matthew Yglesias", "text": "Matthew Yglesias\n\nMatthew Yglesias (; born May 18, 1981) is an American blogger and journalist who writes about economics and politics. Yglesias has written columns and articles for publications such as \"The American Prospect\", \"The Atlantic\", and \"Slate\". Currently, he is an editor and columnist for the news website Vox, which he co-founded in 2014.\n\nYglesias's father Rafael Yglesias is a screenwriter and novelist and he has a brother named Nicolas. His paternal grandparents were novelists Jose Yglesias and Helen Yglesias (née Bassine). His paternal grandfather was of Spanish-Cuban background, and his three other grandparents were of Eastern European Jewish descent.\n\nYglesias went to high school at the Dalton School in New York City and later attended Harvard University, where he studied philosophy.\n\nYglesias started blogging in early 2002, while still in college, focusing mainly on American politics and public policy issues, often approached from an abstract, philosophical perspective. Yglesias was a strong supporter of invading Iraq, Iran and North Korea, calling the countries on his blog \"evil\" and stating that \"we should take them all out,\" although he was critical of the term \"axis of evil.\" He later called his attitudes about the war a mistake.\n\nYglesias joined the \"American Prospect\" as a writing fellow upon his graduation in 2003, subsequently becoming a staff writer. His posts appeared regularly on the magazine's collaborative weblog TAPPED.\n\nFrom June 2007 until August 2008, he was a staff writer at \"The Atlantic Monthly\", and his blog was hosted on the magazine's website, \"The Atlantic\". In July 2008, he announced that he would leave \"The Atlantic Monthly\" for the Center for American Progress where he wrote for its blog, ThinkProgress, because he missed \"the sense of collegiality that comes from working with like-minded colleagues on a shared enterprise\" and thought he could \"help advance their mission.\" On November 21, 2011, he left ThinkProgress to work as a business and economics correspondent at Slate's Moneybox.\n\nOn or before 2010, Yglesias coined the term \"pundit's fallacy\" to denote \"the belief that what a politician needs to do to improve his or her political standing is do what the pundit wants substantively.\"\n\nAndrew Sullivan formerly took nominations on his blog for the Yglesias Award, an honor \"for writers, politicians, columnists or pundits who actually criticize their own side, make enemies among political allies, and generally risk something for the sake of saying what they believe.\"\n\nYglesias has stated that he voted for Mitt Romney when he ran for Governor of Massachusetts in 2002.\n\nLong considered a top Twitter user in foreign policy and influence on the left, Yglesias deleted his past Twitter feed in November 2018, after controversy over tweets which defended the motivation of protesters who gathered outside the house of Tucker Carlson. The tweets also expressed a lack of empathy for Carlson's wife, which caused outrage.\n\nIn February 2014, he left \"Slate\" and joined Vox Media to co-found Vox with Ezra Klein.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1988636", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988636", "title": "Legaia 2: Duel Saga", "text": "Legaia 2: Duel Saga\n\nLegaia 2: Duel Saga, known as in Japan, is a turn-based role-playing video game and the sequel to \"Legend of Legaia\". It was released by Fresh Games in North America and Europe.\n\nThe player controls each characters and only three for the battle screen, while others cannot replace the leading one. The player can make nicknames as the game progresses. The player can mix each recipes and materials for skills. A few mini games included the casino, guild quests, rice planting, side-jumping and special battles. On the \"Tactical Arts System\", the player can combine between three and seven blocks to unlock Arts on screen. The max number of blocks is increased after leveling up. Starting from five blocks for each characters, the player can link with arts from hyper to normal or super ones. Mystic Arts uses seven blocks, low HP, and 100 AP and MP. Variable Arts uses six blocks and 80 AP for two characters to defeat one enemy. The player can use MP to temporarily increase status, recover health or defeat enemies.\n\nThe game follows a group of outcasts (Mystic) and natural spirits (Origin), siding to fight each other. They were created by the Source Forge, the world's creation in Demiurge Tower. When three magical stones are scattered, the creation is imbalanced for the apocalypse. The outcasts appeared in a crater near the town.\n\nThe main protagonist is Lang, the village swordsman. His allies include orphaned magician Maya, martial arts teacher Kazan, female pirate captain Sharon Blade and spiritual giant Ayne. The main villain is Avalon, a star shaper opposing humanity. His minions include the sorceress Velna, swordsman Rauss and the duo of foster siblings.\n\nAfter retrieving the stones, Lang places them back to the world's living creation.\n\nThe game received an average score of 70.46% at GameRankings based on an aggregate of 40 reviews, 67/100 at Metacritic for 21 reviews, and was less successful than the predecessor. According to \"Famitsu\", it sold 40,302 during its debut week, ranking sixth among all new releases for the period. It became one of Dengeki Online's top 200 best-selling games with 53,808 copies.\n"}
{"id": "1988641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988641", "title": "Mästerskapsserien", "text": "Mästerskapsserien\n\nMästerskapsserien (Champions League) was a short-lived Swedish football league played 1991 and 1992 to decide the Swedish Champions. The top six teams from Allsvenskan qualified for Mästerskapsserien while the four bottom had to play the promotion and relegation Kvalsvenskan league with four (1991) and two (1992) teams from Division 1.\n\nThe winners and runners-up of the two seasons were: \n"}
{"id": "1988651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988651", "title": "Meisel", "text": "Meisel\n\nMeisel or Meisels is a surname. Notable people with the surname include:\n\n"}
{"id": "1988656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988656", "title": "Templo Mayor", "text": "Templo Mayor\n\nThe (Spanish for \"[the] Greater Temple\") was the main temple of the Mexica peoples in their capital city of Tenochtitlan, which is now Mexico City. Its architectural style belongs to the late Postclassic period of Mesoamerica. The temple was called the \"\" in the Nahuatl language. It was dedicated simultaneously to Huitzilopochtli, god of war, and Tlaloc, god of rain and agriculture, each of which had a shrine at the top of the pyramid with separate staircases. The spire in the center of the adjacent image was devoted to Quetzalcoatl in his form as the wind god, Ehecatl. The Great Temple devoted to Huitzilopochtli and Tlaloc, measuring approximately at its base, dominated the Sacred Precinct. Construction of the first temple began sometime after 1325, and it was rebuilt six times. The temple was destroyed by the Spanish in 1521 to make way for the new cathedral.\n\nThe Zócalo, or main plaza of Mexico City today, was developed to the southwest of this archeological site, which is located in the block between Seminario and Justo Sierra streets. The site is part of the Historic Center of Mexico City, which was added to the UNESCO World Heritage List in 1987. It received 801,942 visitors in 2017.\n\nAfter the destruction of Tenochtitlan, the Templo Mayor, like most of the rest of the city, was taken apart and the area redeveloped by new structures of the Spanish colonial city. The Temple’s exact location was forgotten. By the 20th century, scholars had a good idea where to look for it. This was based on the archeological work done at the end of the 19th century and the first half of the 20th. Leopoldo Batres did some excavation work at the end of the 19th century under the Mexico City Metropolitan Cathedral because at the time, researchers thought the cathedral had been built over the ruins of the temple.\n\nIn the first decades of the 20th century, Manuel Gamio found part of the southwest corner of the temple and his finds were put on public display. However, the discovery did not generate great public interest in excavating further, because the zone was an upper-class residential area. In 1933, Emilio Cuevas found part of a staircase and beam. In 1948, Hugo Moedano and Elma Estrada Balmori excavated a platform containing serpent heads and offerings. In 1966, Eduardo Contreras and Jorge Angula excavated a chest containing offerings, which had first been explored by Gamio.\n\nThe push to fully excavate the site did not come until late in the 20th century. On 21 February 1978, workers for the electric company were digging at a place in the city then popularly known as the \"island of the dogs\". It was so named because it was slightly elevated over the rest of the neighborhood and, during flooding, street dogs would congregate there. Just over two meters down, the diggers struck a pre-Hispanic monolith. This stone turned out to be a huge disk of over in diameter, thick and weighing . The relief on the stone was later determined to be Coyolxauhqui, Huitzilopochtli's sister, and was dated to the end of the 15th century.\n\nFrom 1978 to 1982, specialists directed by archeologist Eduardo Matos Moctezuma worked on the project to excavate the Temple. Initial excavations found that many of the artifacts were in good enough condition to study. Efforts coalesced into the Templo Mayor Project, which was authorized by presidential decree.\n\nTo excavate, 13 buildings in this area had to be demolished. Nine of these were built in the 1930s, and four dated from the 19th century, and had preserved colonial elements. During excavations, more than 7,000 objects were found, mostly offerings including effigies, clay pots in the image of Tlaloc, skeletons of turtles, frogs, crocodiles, and fish; snail shells, coral, some gold, alabaster, Mixtec figurines, ceramic urns from Veracruz, masks from what is now Guerrero state, copper rattles, and decorated skulls and knives of obsidian and flint. These artifacts are now housed in the Templo Mayor Museum. This museum is the result of the work done since the early 1980s to rescue, preserve and research the Templo Mayor, its Sacred Precinct, and all objects associated with it. The museum exists to make all of the finds available to the public.\n\nThe excavated site consists of two parts: the temple itself, exposed and labeled to show its various stages of development, along with some other associated buildings, and the museum, built to house the smaller and more fragile objects.\n\nAztec temples were typically expanded by building over prior ones, using the bulk of the former as a base for the latter, as later rulers sought to expand the temple to reflect the growing greatness of the city of Tenochtitlan. Therefore, digging down through this temple takes us back in time. The first temple was begun by the Aztecs the year after they founded the city, and the temple was rebuilt six times. All seven stages of the Templo Mayor, except the first, have been excavated and assigned to the reigns of the emperors who were responsible for them.\n\nConstruction of the first Templo Mayor began sometime after 1325. This first temple is only known through historical records, because the high water table of the old lakebed prevents excavation. According to these records, the first pyramid was built with earth and perishable wood, which may not have survived to the present time.\n\nThe second temple was built during the reigns of Acamapichtli, Huitzilihuitl and Chimalpopoca between 1375 and 1427. The upper part of this temple has been excavated, exposing two stone shrines covered in stucco on the north side. A chacmool was uncovered as well. On the south side, there is a sacrificial stone called a \"téchcatl\" and a sculpted face.\n\nThe third temple was built between 1427 and 1440 during the reign of Itzcoatl. A staircase with eight stone standard-bearers is from this stage bearing the glyph with the year Four-Reed (1431) These standard bearers act as \"divine warriors\" guarding the access to the upper shrines.\n\nThe fourth temple was constructed between 1440 and 1481 during the reigns of Moctezuma I and Axayacatl. This stage is considered to have the richest of the architectural decorations as well as sculptures. Most offerings from the excavations are from this time. The great platform was decorated with serpents and braziers, some of which are in the form of monkeys and some in the form of Tlaloc. At this time, the stairway to the shrine of Tlaloc was defined by a pair of undulating serpents and in the middle of this shrine was a small altar defined by a pair of sculpted frogs. The circular monolith of Coyolxauhqui also dates from this time.\n\nThe fifth temple (1481–1486) is dated during the short reign of Tizoc. During these five years, the platform was recovered in stucco and the ceremonial plaza was paved.\n\nThe sixth temple was built during the reign of Ahuizotl. He finished some of the updates made by Tizoc and made his own; as shown on the carvings of the \"commemoration stone of the huei teocalli\", showing the two tlatoqueh celebrating the opening of the temple during the last day of the month Panquetzaliztli dedicated to Huitzilopochtli; day 7 acatl of the year 8 acatl (Dec 19th, 1487). The Sacred Precinct was walled off and this wall was decorated with serpent heads. He built three shrines and the House of the Eagle Warriors.\n\nThe seventh and last temple is what Hernán Cortés and his men saw when they arrived to Tenochtitlan in 1519. Very little of this layer remains because of the destruction the Spaniards wrought when they invaded the city. Only a platform to the north and a section of paving in the courtyard on the south side can still be seen.\n\nMost of what is known about this temple is based on the historical record. It was at the time the largest and most important active ceremonial center. Fray Bernardino de Sahagún reported that the Sacred Precinct had 78 buildings; the Templo Mayor towered above all of them.\n\nThe pyramid was composed of four sloped terraces with a passage between each level, topped by a great platform that measured approximately . It had two stairways to access the two shrines on the top platform. One was dedicated to Tlaloc, the god of water on the left side (as you face the structure), and one to Huitzilopochtli, deity of war and of the sun, on the right side. The two temples were approximately in height, and each had large braziers where the sacred fires continuously burned. The entrance of each temple had statues of robust and seated men which supported the standard-bearers and banners of handmade bark paper. Each stairway was defined by balustrades flanking the stairs terminating in menacing serpent heads at the base. These stairways were used only by the priests and sacrificial people. The entire building was originally covered with stucco and polychrome paint.\n\nThe deities were housed inside the temple, shielded from the outside by curtains. The idol of Huitzilopochtli was modeled from amaranth seeds held together with honey and human blood. Inside of him were bags containing jade, bones and amulets to give life to the god. This figure was constructed annually and it was richly dressed and fitted with a mask of gold for his festival held during the Aztec month of Panquetzaliztli. At the end of the festival, the image was broken apart and shared among the populace to be eaten.\n\nIn his description of the city, Cortés records that he and the other Spaniards were impressed by the number and magnificence of the temples constructed in Tenochtitlan, but that was tempered by this disdain for their beliefs and human sacrifice.\n\nOn 14 November 1519, Cortes seized the emperor Moctezuma II and ordered the destruction of all the religious relics of the Aztecs. He ordered a Catholic cross placed on the Templo Mayor. While Cortes left for Veracruz to confront Spaniards looking to arrest him, Pedro de Alvarado learned of a plan to attack the Spaniards, and staged a pre-emptive attack on the Aztecs in the Sacred Precinct while they celebrated a religious festival. Unarmed and trapped within the walls of the Sacred Precinct, an estimated 8,000–10,000 Aztec nobles were killed. When word of the massacre spread throughout the city, the people turned on the Spaniards, killing seven, wounding many, and driving the rest back to their quarters. The Spaniards were trapped between two Aztec forces and 68 were captured alive. Ten of these Spanish captives were immediately sacrificed at the Temple and their severed heads were thrown back to the Spaniards. The others were sacrificed at the Great Temple that night, which could be seen from the Spanish camps. The sacrificed Spaniards were flayed and their faces — with beards attached — were tanned and sent to allied towns, both to solicit assistance and to warn against betraying the alliance.\n\nAfter the fall of Tenochtitlan in 1521, the lands controlled by the Aztecs became part of the Spanish empire. All the temples, including the Templo Mayor, were sacked, taking all objects of gold and other precious materials. Cortés, who had ordered the destruction of the existing capital, had a Mediterranean-style city built on the site. Essential elements of the old imperial center, including the Templo Mayor, were buried under similarly key features of the new city in what is now the historical downtown of the Mexico City. The Templo Mayor and Sacred Precinct were demolished and a Spanish church, later the main cathedral, was built on the western half of the precinct.\n\nFray Toribio de Motolinía, a Spanish friar who arrived to Mexico soon after the invasion, writes in his work \"Memoriales\" that the Aztec feast of Tlacaxipehualiztli “took place when the sun stood in the middle of [the Temple of] Huitzilopochtli, which was at the equinox”. This statement has become very famous, as it is the only textual reference known so far that explicitly relates a Mesoamerican temple with astronomical observations. The measurements in the Templo Mayor confirmed the veracity of this comment. The orientation of stage II, the earliest of the archaeologically attested construction phases, is different from that adopted by stage III and preserved in all subsequent stages. One of the sunset dates corresponding to the east-west axis of the late stages, including the last, is April 4, which in the Julian calendar of the 16th century was equivalent to March 25. In 1519, this was the last day of Tlacaxipehualiztli, that is, precisely the day of the feast of the month. Furthermore, March 25, the Feast of the Annunciation, was in the Middle Ages commonly identified with the vernal equinox. Consequently, Motolinía did not refer to the astronomical equinox (the date of which would have hardly been known to a non-astronomer at that time), but rather only pointed out the correlation between the day of the Mexica festival, which in the last years before the invasion coincided with the solar phenomenon in the Templo Mayor, and the date in the Christian calendar that corresponded to the traditional day of spring equinox.\n\nAccording to tradition, the Templo Mayor is located on the exact spot where the god Huitzilopochtli gave the Mexica people his sign that they had reached the promised land: an eagle on a nopal cactus with a snake in its mouth.\n\nThe Templo Mayor was partially a symbolic representation of the Hill of Coatepec, where according to Mexica myth, Huitzilopochtli was born. Huitzilopochtli emerged from his mother Coatlicue fully grown and fully armed to battle his sister Coyolxauhqui and her brothers the Centzon Huitznahua who intended to kill him and their mother. Huitzilopochtli was victorious, slaying and dismembering his sister. Her body was then thrown to the bottom of the hill. As the southern half of the Great Temple represented Coatepec (on the side dedicated to Huitzilopochtli), the great stone disk with Coyolxauhqui’s dismembered body was found at the foot of this side of the temple. The northern half represented Tonacatepetl, the mountain home of Tlaloc.\n\nThe sacred ballcourt and skull rack were located at the foot of the stairs of the twin temples, to mimic, like the stone disk, where Huitzilopochtli was said to have placed the goddess’ severed head. These locations served as a place for the reenactment of the mythical conflict.\n\nThe various levels of the Temple also represent the cosmology of the Aztec world. First of all, it is aligned with the cardinal directions with gates that connect to roads leading in these directions. This indicates the place where the plane of the world that humans live in intersects the thirteen levels of the heavens, called Topan and the nine levels of the underworld, called Mictlan.\n\nArchaeologist Eduardo Matos Moctezuma, in his essay \"Symbolism of the Templo Mayor,\" posits that the orientation of the temple is indicative of the total vision that the Mexica had of the universe (cosmovision). He states that the \"principal center, or navel, where the horizontal and vertical planes intersect, that is, the point from which the heavenly or upper plane and the plane of the Underworld begin and the four directions of the universe originate, is the Templo Mayor of Tenochtitlan.\" Matos Moctezuma supports his supposition by claiming that the temple acts as an embodiment of a living myth where \"all sacred power is concentrated and where all the levels intersect.\" Said myth is the birth and struggle between Huitzilopochtli and Coyolxauhqui.\n\nThe Sacred Precinct of the Templo Mayor was surrounded by a wall called the \"coatepantli\" (serpent wall). Among the most important buildings were the ballcourt, the Calmecac (area for priests), and the temples dedicated to Quetzalcoatl, Tezcatlipoca and the sun. The Templo Mayor itself delineated the eastern side of the Sacred Precinct.\n\nOn the sides of the Templo Mayor, archeologists have excavated a number of palatial rooms and conjoining structures. One of the best preserved and most important is the Palace (or House) of the Eagle Warriors. This area dates back to the fourth stage of the temple, around 1469. It was excavated in 1981 and 1982 by José Francisco Hinojosa. It is a large L-shaped room with staircases decorated with sculptures of eagle heads. To enter this main room, one had to pass through an entrance guarded by two large sculpted representations of these warriors. The Eagle Warriors were a privileged class who were dedicated to the god Huitzilopochtli, and dressed to look like eagles. Adjoining this palace is the temple for these warriors—also known as the Red Temple. This temple shows clear Teotihuacan influence in its paintings (mostly in red) and the design of its altar. Almost all the interior walls of the House of the Eagles are decorated with beautiful paintings and contain long benches, which are also painted. These benches are composed of two panels. The upper one is a frieze with undulating serpents in bas-relief. The lower panel shows processions of armed warriors converging on a zacatapayolli, a grass ball into which the Mexica stuck bloody lancets during the ritual of autosacrifice. This palace specifically imitates much of the style of the Burnt Palace, located in the ruins of Tula.\nA number of important artifacts have been found in this area, the most important of which are two nearly identical large ceramic sculptures of Mictlantecuhtl, the god of death. Despite being found in fragile pieces, they were both reconstructed and are on display at the on-site museum.\n\nAnother conjoining area was dedicated to the Ocelot Warriors. Their temple, dedicated to the god Tezcatlipoca, lies under the current Museo de la Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público to the south of the Templo Mayor.\n\nThe Calmecac was a residence hall for priests and a school for future priests, administrators and politicians, where they studied theology, literature, history and astronomy. Its exact location is on one side of what is now Donceles Street. The Temple of Quetzalcoatl was located to the west of the Templo Mayor. It is said that during the equinox, the sun rose between the shrines dedicated to Huitzilopochtli and Tlaloc and shone directly on this temple. Due to the god’s serpentine nature, the temple had a circular base instead of a rectangular one.\n\nThe ball field, called the tlachtli or teutlachtli, was similar to many sacred ball fields in Mesoamerica. Games were played barefoot, and players used their hips to move a heavy ball to stone rings. The field was located west of the Templo Mayor, near the twin staircases and oriented east-west. Next to this ball field was the \"huey tzompanti\" where the skulls of sacrifice victims were kept after being covered in stucco and decorated.\n\nThe Temple of the Sun was located west of the Templo Mayor also and its remains lie under the Metropolitan Cathedral. The project to shore up the cathedral at the end of the 20th century and beginning of the 21st brought to light a number of artifacts.\n\nMost of the objects found in the Templo Mayor were offerings. Although many are of Mexica design, there are also abundant items from other peoples, brought in as tribute or through trade. Sculptures, flint knives, vessels, beads and other sumptuary ornaments—as well as minerals, plants and animals of all types, and the remains of human sacrifice—were among the items deposited in offerings. All of these fulfilled a specific function within the offering, depending on the symbolism of each object. In excavations at the Templo Mayor, different types of offerings have been found and have been grouped by researchers in terms of Time (the period in which the offering was deposited); Space (the location of the offering within the structure); Container (type and dimensions of the receptacle containing the objects); internal distribution (placement of objects within the offering) and value of the items. The offerings were usually contained in cavities, in stone urns, and in boxes made of slabs. These are found under floors; in platforms, architectural bodies, stairways and in temples. These offerings were placed accompanied by complex rituals following set temporal, spatial and symbolic patterns, depending on the intention of the offering.\n\nThe oldest Mexica objects, located in the second temple, are two urns which contain the remains of incinerated bones; one of the urns was made of obsidian and the other of alabaster. A small silver mask and a gold bell were found inside one urn, and second gold bell and two green stone beads were placed in the other.\n\nImages of the gods Huehueteotl-Xiuhtecuhtli, together with Tlaloc, presided over most of the offerings found in the Templo Mayor. Representing fire and water respectively, this pair of deities probably symbolized the concept of \"burning water,\" a metaphor for warfare.\n\nAnother theme exhibited in this hall is autosacrifice, a ritual that was conducted in private as a personal act of communication with the gods. Widespread throughout the entire population, this practice was performed by perforating certain fleshy parts of the body—such as the earlobes, lips, tongue, chest, calves, et cetera—with obsidian blades, agave needles or bone perforators. Once the implement was covered with blood, it was inserted in straw balls called Zacatapayoli. The entirety was probably placed in ceremonial boxes—tepetlacalli—as an offering to the gods. Objects associated with human sacrifice are the \"face blades\" or knives decorated with eyes and teeth, as well as skull masks. Other ceremonial items include musical instruments, jewelry, and braziers for the burning of copal.\n\nThe museum of the Templo Mayor was built in 1987 to house the Templo Mayor Project and its finds—a project which continues work to this day. In 1991, the Urban Archeology Program was incorporated as part of the Templo Mayor Project whose mission is to excavate the oldest area of the city, around the main plaza. The museum building was built by architect Pedro Ramírez Vázquez, who envisioned a discreet structure that would blend in with the colonial surroundings. The museum has four floors, three of which are for permanent exhibitions and the fourth houses offices for the director, museum administration and research staff. Other departments are located in the basement, where there is also an auditorium.\n\nThe museum has eight main exhibition halls, each dedicated to a different theme. Room 1 is dedicated to the goddesses Coatlicue and Coyolxauhqui, mother and sister to Huitzlipochtli, respectively. Here are displayed the first finds associated with the temple, from the first tentative finds in the 19th century to the discovery of the huge stone disk of Coyolxauhqui, which initiated the Templo Mayor Project.\nRoom 2 is dedicated to the concepts of ritual and sacrifice in Tenochtitlan. This room contains urns where dignitaries where interred, funerary offerings, as well as objects associated with self and human sacrifice—such as musical instruments, knives and skulls.\n\nRoom 3 demonstrates the economics of the Aztec empire in the form of tribute and trade, with examples of finished products and raw materials from many parts of Mesoamerica. Sala 4 is dedicated to the god Huitzilopochtli. His shrine at the temple was the most important and largest. This room contains various images of him as well as offerings. Also located here are the two large ceramic statues of the god Mictlantecuhtli which were found in the House of the Eagle Warriors who were dedicated to Huitzilopochtli.\n\nRoom 5 is dedicated to Tlaloc, the other principal deity of the Aztecs and one of the oldest in Mesoamerica. This room contains various images of the god usually worked in green or volcanic stone or in ceramic. The most prized work is a large pot with the god’s face in high relief that still preserves much of the original blue paint.\nRoom 6 is dedicated to the flora and fauna of Mesoamerica at this time, as most contained divine aspects for the Aztecs. Also many of the offerings found at the Templo Mayor were or were made from various plants and animals. Related to Room 6, Room 7 contains exhibits of the agricultural technology of the time, especially in the growing of corn and the construction of \"chinampas\", the so-called \"floating gardens\". The last room is Room 8, which is dedicated to the archeology and history of the site.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1988659", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988659", "title": "Max Bentley", "text": "Max Bentley\n\nMaxwell Herbert Lloyd \"Max\" Bentley (March 1, 1920 – January 19, 1984) was a Canadian ice hockey forward who played for the Chicago Blackhawks, Toronto Maple Leafs, and New York Rangers in the National Hockey League (NHL) as part of a professional and senior career that spanned 20 years. He was the NHL's leading scorer twice in a row, and in 1946 won the Hart Trophy as most valuable player. He played in four All-Star Games and was twice named to a post-season All-Star team.\n\nBentley was one of six hockey-playing brothers, and at one point played with four of his brothers with the Drumheller Miners of the Alberta Senior Hockey League. In 1942–43, he made NHL history when he played on the league's first all-brother line with Doug and Reg. He played five seasons in Chicago with Doug before a 1947 trade sent him to the Maple Leafs in one of the most significant transactions in NHL history to that point. Bentley won three Stanley Cup championships with the Maple Leafs before spending a final NHL season with the Rangers in 1953–54. He then returned to his home in Saskatoon to finish his playing career. Considered one of the best players of his era, Bentley was inducted into the Hockey Hall of Fame in 1966. Bentley was named one of the NHL's 100 greatest players of all-time by the NHL in 2017.\n\nBentley was born March 1, 1920, in Delisle, Saskatchewan. He was the youngest of six boys, and one of thirteen children. His father Bill was a native of Yorkshire, England who emigrated to the United States as a child and became a speed skating champion in North Dakota before settling in Delisle. He became mayor and helped build the town's covered skating rink. All of the Bentley children were athletes, and all six brothers played hockey. Bill Bentley believed that all six boys could have played in the National Hockey League (NHL), though responsibilities on the family farm resulted in the eldest four boys spending the majority of their careers playing senior hockey on the Canadian Prairies.\n\nHis father taught Bentley to play hockey on their farm, where the family patriarch believed the daily chores would give his children the strength to have strong shots. Bentley's father also taught him to use his speed to elude bigger and stronger opponents as he weighed only 155 pounds fully grown. He played two years in Rosetown, Saskatchewan between 1935 and 1937 where he led the Saskatchewan Intermediate league in scoring as a 16-year-old. He moved onto the Drumheller Miners of the Alberta Senior Hockey League (ASHL) in 1937, leading that league in scoring while playing on a line with brothers Roy and Wyatt. The trio were joined in Drumheller by Doug and Reg for the 1938–39 season. The family operated a gas station in town when not playing hockey.\n\nWhile playing for Rosetown, Bentley attended a tryout camp for the Boston Bruins. Believing him too small to play in the NHL, the Bruins sent him home. He then traveled to Montreal for a tryout with the Canadiens. The team advised him to see a doctor who stated he had a heart condition, and that if he did not quit hockey, he would be dead within a year. Bentley chose to continue playing, but developed into a hypochondriac following the diagnosis. He constantly complained of aches, pains and ailments, and carried so many drugs and medications he was known as a \"walking drug store\".\n\nHe played two years of senior hockey in Drumheller, and one more with the Saskatoon Quakers in the Saskatchewan Senior Hockey League (SSHL) before playing his first professional games with the Providence Reds of the American Hockey League (AHL) in 1940–41. He caught the attention of the Chicago Blackhawks, and while the team was impressed with his play, they wanted him to start with their American Hockey Association (AHA) affiliate in Kansas City. Bentley initially refused, and considered retiring. He was convinced to report by Kansas City's coach, Johnny Gottselig, and played only five games before injuries in Chicago led the Blackhawks to request a call-up. Gottselig sent Bentley up, reuniting him with brother Doug who had joined Chicago in 1939. Max played his first NHL game on November 21, 1940, against the Bruins. He scored his first goal on December 1 against the New York Rangers.\n\nIn his third NHL season, 1942–43, Bentley scored 70 points to finish third in the league in scoring. He finished three points behind brother Doug, who won the scoring title. Max tied an NHL record by scoring four goals in one period of a 10–1 victory over the Rangers on January 28, 1943. He added three assists in the game, tying the league record at the time for points in one game with seven. He was called for only one penalty during the season, and as a result was voted the winner of the Lady Byng Trophy as the league's most sportsmanlike player.\n\nWorld War II had decimated the rosters of all NHL teams, and with the Blackhawks searching for players, Max and Doug convinced the team to sign their brother Reg. The trio made history on January 1, 1943, when they became the first all-brother line the NHL had seen. Two nights later, Max and Doug assisted on Reg's first, and only, NHL goal, the only time in league history that a trio of family members recorded the goal and assists on a scoring play. While Max and Doug were established NHL stars, Reg played only 11 games in his NHL career.\n\nBentley's career was interrupted in 1943 when he joined the Canadian Infantry Corps. He was briefly stationed in Victoria, British Columbia, where he completed the 1942–43 season playing with the Victoria Navy team then spent the following two years stationed in Calgary where he played with the Calgary Currie Army team in the Canadian military leagues. He led the Alberta league in goals and points with 18 and 31 respectively in 1943–44.\n\nFollowing the war, Bentley returned to the Blackhawks where he was reunited with his brother Doug and joined on a line by Bill Mosienko. The trio, who were all small and exceptionally fast, were dubbed the \"Pony Line\" and emerged as one of the top scoring lines in the league. Max led the league in scoring with 61 points, and was awarded the Hart Trophy as the league's most valuable player. He was the first Blackhawk to ever win the award.\n\nBentley again led the league in scoring in 1946–47, recording 72 points in 60 games. He won the title on the final night of the season, finishing one point ahead of Montreal's Maurice Richard. In doing so, he became only the third player in NHL history to win consecutive scoring titles after Charlie Conacher and Sweeney Schriner, both of whom accomplished the feat in the 1930s. He then played in the 1st National Hockey League All-Star Game on October 13, 1947, for the NHL All-Stars, a 4–3 victory over the Toronto Maple Leafs.\n\nThree weeks later and six games into the season, the Maple Leafs completed a deal to acquire Bentley. He was sent to Toronto with Cy Thomas in exchange for Gus Bodnar, Bud Poile, Gaye Stewart, Ernie Dickens and Bob Goldham, on November 2, 1947. The trade sent shockwaves throughout the league. The five players sent to Chicago essentially formed an entire starting unit; NHL President Clarence Campbell stated he was \"astounded\" by the deal, and stated it ranked with the Maple Leafs' purchase of King Clancy in 1930 as one of the most significant transactions in league history. The trade was still being discussed weeks later as observers throughout the league attempted to assess which team received the better deal. Bentley was initially disappointed to leave his brother in Chicago, but quickly adapted to Toronto where he was immediately popular.\n\nWith the Leafs, Bentley challenged for his third consecutive scoring title. He eventually finished fifth with 54 points, seven behind Elmer Lach's league-leading 61. The Leafs finished in first place in the regular season standings, then went on to win the Stanley Cup in a four-game sweep over the Detroit Red Wings in the 1948 Stanley Cup Finals. Bentley was overjoyed, stating: \"I waited a long time for this. A Stanley Cup championship at last!\"\n\nBentley and the Leafs struggled in the 1948–49 regular season. He fell to 41 points on the year – 31 less than his total of two seasons previous – while the Leafs finished fourth out of six teams. The team recovered in the playoffs, eliminating the Red Wings in four consecutive games for the second year in a row to win the team's third consecutive Stanley Cup. Bentley scored the third goal in a 3–1 win in the deciding contest.\n\nThe Leafs' championship streak came to an end in 1949–50 but Bentley showed a modest improvement offensively, leading the team with 23 goals. He contemplated retiring and returning to Saskatchewan, but chose to return to Toronto for the 1950–51 season. He finished the season with significantly improved scoring totals, finishing third in the league with 62 points, behind Maurice Richard's 66, and Gordie Howe's league-record 86. The Leafs faced the Canadiens in the 1951 Stanley Cup Finals, which was won by Toronto in five games. Bentley finished with 13 points in the playoffs, tying him with Richard for the league lead.\n\nAfter finishing the 1951–52 season with 41 points, Bentley contemplated his future in hockey. He mused about an opportunity to coach the Calgary Stampeders of the Western Hockey League (WHL) and stated a desire to play again with his brother Doug, but ultimately returned to Toronto. He only played in 36 games in 1952–53 after suffering a back injury, but reached 500 career points on November 5, 1952, with two goals against the Rangers.\n\nFollowing the season, the New York Rangers offered Max and Doug Bentley the opportunity to play together again. The Rangers acquired both players in cash transactions over the summer. Max finished the season with 32 points in 54 games, while Doug played only 20 games. Bentley's rights reverted to the Maple Leafs in the fall of 1954 when he refused to report to the Rangers for the 1954–55 NHL season. From the Leafs, he demanded a C$20,000 contract, more than the team was willing to pay. He was initially placed on the suspended list by Toronto after he refused to report to training camp and attempted to purchase his release from the team. Bentley expressed a desire to leave the NHL and play for the WHL's Saskatoon Quakers, where Doug had become coach. The Maple Leafs ultimately supported Bentley's request. At the time he was granted his release, he was second amongst all active players with 245 goals, behind only Richard.\n\nHe joined the Quakers in November 1954 to great excitement in Saskatoon. Bentley finished the season with 41 points in 40 games. He began the 1955–56 season with Saskatoon, but retired on November 15, 1955, due to recurring back problems. He played his final game on that night, scoring his final goal in an 8–3 victory over the Winnipeg Warriors.\n\nIn 1956, Bentley joined his brother Doug in hockey management when the brothers launched a new Saskatchewan Junior Hockey League (SJHL) team in Saskatoon. He attempted to get into coaching, first offering his services to the WHL's Vancouver Canucks in the winter of 1961, before going south to coach the Burbank Stars of the California Hockey league in 1962. His nephew Bev and son Lynn played with him in Burbank, while Doug was the player-coach of the rival Long Beach Gulls.\n\nMax Bentley was known for his speed, passing and puck handling skills. He learned his trade with his brothers as they constantly played street hockey in the summers and on the ice in the winters. Bentley's father flooded a sheet of ice that was the length of a regulation NHL hockey rink but much narrower, forcing the boys to develop the ability to maintain control of the puck while making fast, hard turns to reach the net. He was nicknamed the \"Dipsy Doodle Dandy from Delisle\" in reference to his ability to skate around opponents who often found that the only way to stop him was via rough play. Bentley was able to score from nearly any angle, an ability that confounded even his brother Doug. Long-time prairie hockey promoter Bill Hunter said Bentley was \"a phenomenal hockey player, an absolute artist with the puck\". Opponents occasionally attempted to use Bentley's hypochondria against him, making remarks on how he looked ill in a bid to distract him during the game.\n\nBentley was inducted into the Hockey Hall of Fame in 1966, two years after his brother Doug. One year later, Max and Doug were inducted together into the Saskatchewan Sports Hall of Fame. \"The Hockey News\" ranked him 48th on its 1998 list of the top 100 players of all time.\n\nIn addition to hockey, Bentley and his brothers played baseball in the summers. Representing their hometown of Delisle, they participated in regional tournaments and were repeat winners. Bentley played summer baseball throughout the 1950s, and was a member of the Saskatoon Gems of the Western Canada Senior League. He was also a long-time curler, often playing with his brothers, son and nephews.\n\nThe majority of Bentley's time away from the hockey rink was spent on the family farm outside Delisle. The Bentleys operated a large farm, raising cattle and growing wheat, and Max tended to return to the farm to recuperate during hockey seasons when he felt he needed to rest up. He and his wife Betty had a son, Lynn, who was also a hockey player and a younger son, Gary. Bentley died at his home in Saskatoon on January 19, 1984, at the age of 63.\n\n"}
{"id": "1988666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988666", "title": "Vijay R. Singh", "text": "Vijay R. Singh\n\nSir Vijay Raghubar Singh, KBE (13 July 1931 – 25 September 2006) was an Indo-Fijian lawyer and politician who held Cabinet office in the 1960s and 1970s. Vijay Singh served in Prime Minister Ratu Sir Kamisese Mara's government in a variety of positions, including Attorney-General, and was President of the Indian Alliance, a division of the ruling Alliance Party. He quit the party in 1979 following disagreement with Alliance leadership and later joined the opposition National Federation Party. Vijay Singh was involved in the restructure of the Fiji sugar industry and was a leading member of the Jaycees movement in Fiji.\n\nVijay Singh was born in Yalalevu, Ba, Fiji and was the eldest of 14 children. He came from a prominent Arya Samaj family in Ba. He attended the local Arya Samaj school for primary education and obtained his secondary education at Marist Brothers High School in Suva. With no tertiary education available in Fiji, and not able to afford to travel overseas for further education, he took up employment in his uncle, Hari Shankars', accountancy and import business. Seeing his determination to pursue further studies, his uncle offered to finance him to study law. He began legal studies at Lincoln's Inn in London in 1951. He graduated with a Law degree from the University of London in 1953 after only two years, the shortest period of study permissible to sit the final examination. He became a Barrister of the High Courts of England, Australia, and Fiji. In February 1954, he returned to Fiji and began to practise in Labasa. He also had offices in Nadi and Suva. In 1956 he married Maya, with whom he had a son, Vinay, and a daughter, Madhu.\n\nWhile in Labasa, Vijay Singh became involved in cane farmers unions and was the President of the Labasa Kisan Sangh. He was also a key player in the formation of the Federation of Cane Growers (an umbrella organisation of various sugar cane unions to negotiate with the CSR) and the subsequent negotiations that took place with the Colonial Sugar Refining Company regarding the 1960 sugar cane contract. He, together with Ayodhya Prasad, of the Viti Levu-based Kisan Sangh, signed the 1960 cane contract in defiance of the majority of the Federation of Cane Growers. He later became the President of a united Kisan Sangh and held this office until the mid-1990s. He was an active leader of the joint committee of all sugar cane growers associations, established to restructure the sugar industry and when the Sugar Cane Growers Council was established in 1985, he was selected as its first Chief Executive. He also became a director of the Fiji Sugar Marketing Company, thus providing sugar cane farmers a direct say in how Fiji's sugar was marketed.\n\nIn 1965, together with Ratu Kamisese Mara, and other organizations opposed to the Federation Party, he was involved in the formation of Fiji's first multi-racial political party, the Alliance Party. He joined the Alliance Party independently of Ayodhya Prasad's National Congress of Fiji and worked himself to a position of influence within the Party by taking up the posts of Treasurer and Publicity Manager. When the Congress was wound up in 1967, its members joined the Indian division of the Alliance Party, the Indian Alliance, with Vijay R. Singh as President. In the 1966 election, he was elected to the Legislative Council from the East-Central cross-voting seat which covered Vanua Levu and Lau. The Federation Party had no hope of winning the seat and to confuse voters selected another Vijay Singh. From then on he started to use the name, Vijay R. Singh (Vijay Raghubar Singh - using his father's first name as his middle name.) The ploy by the Federation Party backfired, as Vijay R. Singh's opponent was a clerk and he asked the electorate, \"\"Which Vijay Singh do you wish to vote for - the clerk or the lawyer?\"\"\n\nFollowing the Alliance Party's win in the election, he was appointed the Member for Social Services, a portfolio that had been held by A. D. Patel prior to the election. This was not a ministerial post in the modern sense, as Singh and his fellow \"members\" comprised a minority of the Executive Council and were technically only advisers to the Governor, who retained all power. However, the portfolio, which encompassed Health, Education, Housing and Social Welfare, was upgraded to a ministerial position when responsible government was introduced in September 1967. It was during his term as Minister that the University of the South Pacific was established. He also introduced a program to extend secondary education to rural areas by the establishment of Junior Secondary Schools. He was later appointed the Minister of Commerce, Industry and Cooperatives and was instrumental in the establishment of a flour mill, steel rolling mill and a second brewery in Fiji. He played an active part in multi-party talks held in London, culminating in the new constitution and Fiji's independence in 1970.\n\nIn the 1972 election, it was clear that Vijay R. Singh was losing favour with the leadership of the Alliance Party, when he was not nominated for his existing safe seat and instead was given another (less safe) seat in a constituency where he did not have any political following. He won the election and was made Minister for Housing, Urban Development and Social Welfare. Not happy with this \"demotion\" he soon resigned as a Minister and resumed private practice. He was then elected Deputy Speaker of the House of Representatives of Fiji of the House of Representatives. In mid-1975, when the Minister of Education announced that the Government would not subsidize school fees for non-Fijians, Vijay Singh was among its most vocal critics, describing the decision as \"deplorable because of its distressingly repellent odour of crude racialism.\" In 1976, he was elected the Speaker and resigned from the presidency of the Indian Alliance.\n\nIn June 1976, he became the first Indo-Fijian to be knighted by the Queen for his services as a citizen, as a member of parliament, Minister and Speaker. In the 1977 election, he lost the pre-selection for Alliance Party's nomination for his National seat to the prominent K.R. Latchan. He then began speaking out publicly on issues affecting the Indian community but accepted nomination for an Indian Communal seat that he could not win.\n\nThe Alliance Party still needed him as they needed a qualified lawyer to be the Attorney General. He was appointed to the Senate and given the portfolio of Attorney General and Minister for Economic Development. Differences between him and the Alliance leadership widened and he resigned from both the party and the Senate in 1979. In 1982, he joined the National Federation Party (NFP), whose leader's moderate style appealed to him, and soon became a key adviser to its leader, Jai Ram Reddy. He won the 1982 election on the NFP ticket in a national constituency in his home town of Ba but his attempts to use foreign media to influence the election backfired and the NFP lost the election.\n\nIn 1985 he resigned his seat in the House of Representatives and began work as chief executive of the Sugar Cane Growers Council but this career was cut short by the Fiji coups of 1987. In order to bring pressure on the regime in Fiji to restore democracy, he lobbied at the Commonwealth Heads of Government meeting in Vancouver in October 1987 to have Fiji expelled from the Commonwealth. He succeeded but was barred from returning to Fiji, having been declared persona non-grata. He then settled in Australia. After the restoration of democracy in Fiji he returned and resumed his law practice in Suva in 1991.\n\nSingh's last public contribution was his book, \"Speaking Out\", published in 2006, in which he recited his version of the events surrounding the coups in Fiji. The book offended Saula Telawa (the leader of the fringe New Nationalist Party), who called for the book to be banned in Fiji. Singh's strident criticism of some ministers of the Methodist and other churches for supporting the coups was insensitive to Christian beliefs and to the predominantly Christian indigenous Fijians, claimed Telawa, whose party calls for indigenous supremacy and for Christianity to be established as the state religion.\n\nSingh's memoir also made controversial claims that Sitiveni Rabuka, the architect of the 1987 coups, had personally told him that he was the main instigator behind the scenes of the 2000 coup also, and that his main target was not the government of Mahendra Chaudhry, but the aging Ratu Mara, who was now President. Pleading \"sub judice\", Rabuka refused to comment. In an audio interview broadcast on Fiji Live on 17 August, barely six weeks before his death, Singh claimed that an emotional Ratu Mara, who had abruptly resigned the Presidency in the midst of the coup crisis, had told him of his own suspicions about Rabuka. Although unsubstantiated, Singh's claims were not new: Mara's own last recorded interview had expressed strong suspicions about Rabuka's possible involvement in the 2000 coup. Singh's claimed conversation with Rabuka was, however, the first known purported confession from Rabuka.\n\nSir Vijay R. Singh died on 25 September 2006 in Brisbane, Australia, after a long battle with cancer.\n\n"}
{"id": "1988670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988670", "title": "Karlslunds IF", "text": "Karlslunds IF\n\nKarlslunds IF is a Swedish sports club with several departments, located in Örebro.\n\nKarlslunds IF runs one of the biggest programme for athletics in Örebro, Sweden, with some 4000 members and more than 200 coaches coaching eight different sports. Currently women's football (known as KIF Örebro DFF) and skiing have the most successful teams.\n\nThe club was founded on April 27, 1920 by a group of young athletes living in the Karlslund area in western Örebro. With an original focus on athletics, skiing and football, the club quickly branched into other sports, becoming one of Örebro's most successful sports clubs of the 20th and 21st century.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1988673", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988673", "title": "Cosmas of Maiuma", "text": "Cosmas of Maiuma\n\nSaint Cosmas of Maiuma, also called Cosmas Hagiopolites (\"of the Holy City\"), Cosmas of Jerusalem, or Cosmas the Melodist, or Cosmas the Poet (d. 773 or 794), was a bishop and an important hymnographer (writer of hymns) of the Eastern Orthodox Church.\n\nSaint Cosmas () was probably born in Damascus, but he was orphaned at a young age. He was adopted by Sergius, the father of St. John of Damascus (ca.676 - 749), and became John's foster-brother. The teacher of the two boys was an elderly Calabrian monk, also named Cosmas (known as \"Cosmas the Monk\" to distinguish him), who had been freed from slavery to the Saracens by St. John's father. John and Cosmas went from Damascus to Jerusalem, where both became monks in the Lavra (monastery) of St. Sabbas the Sanctified near that city. Together they helped defend the Church against the heresy of iconoclasm.\n\nCosmas left the monastery in 743 when he was appointed Bishop of Maiuma, the port of ancient Gaza. He outlived St. John by many years and died in great old age.\n\nAs a learned prose-author, Cosmas wrote commentaries, or \"scholia\", on the poems of St. Gregory of Nazianzus. He is regarded with great admiration as a poet. St. Cosmas and St. John of Damascus are considered to be the best representatives of the later Greek classical hymnography, the most characteristic examples of which are the artistic liturgical chants known as \"canons\". They worked together on developing the Octoechos.\n\nSaint Cosmas has been called \"a vessel of divine grace\" and \"the glory of the Church.\" He composed the solemn canons for Matins of Lazarus Saturday, Palm Sunday, the Triodes (canons with only three Canticles) which are chanted during Holy Week, the first canon of the Nativity (based on a Nativity sermon by St. Gregory the Theologian), and is known for his finest work, \"\"Canon for Christmas Day\"\". Altogether, fourteen canons are attributed to him in the liturgical books of the Orthodox Church. His most well-known composition is \"More honourable than the cherubim…\" (which is included in the \"Axion Estin\"), sung regularly at Matins, the Divine Liturgy and other services.\n\nThe hymns of St. Cosmas were originally intended for the Divine Services of the Church of Jerusalem, but through the influence of Constantinople their use became universal in the Orthodox Church. It is not certain, however, that all the hymns ascribed to Cosmas in the liturgical books were really his compositions, especially as his teacher of the same name was also a hymn writer.\n\nThe Eastern Orthodox Church observes his feast on October 14 (for those Orthodox Christians who follow the Julian Calendar, October 14 falls on October 27 of the Gregorian Calendar).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1988675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988675", "title": "Kovačić (surname)", "text": "Kovačić (surname)\n\nKovačić (Cyrillic: Ковачић), alternatively spelled Kovačič in Slovene and Slovak (feminine (Slovak): Kovačičová), Kovacsics in Hungarian, or transliterated as Kovacic/Kovacich/Kovachich in English, is one of the most common surnames in Croatia, Slovenia, as well as Hungary and Serbia. Etymologically it is a patronymic derivative of the surname Kovač, which is a Slavic cognate of the English surname Smith, and as such is closely related to the similar surname Kovačević.\n\nIn Croatia the form \"Kovačić\" is more common than \"Kovač\", whereas in Slovenia it is the other way around. There are around 12,000 people with this surname in Croatia, making it the 7th most common in the country.\n\nIt may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1988689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988689", "title": "Computational cognition", "text": "Computational cognition\n\nComputational cognition (sometimes referred to as computational cognitive science or computational psychology) is the study of the computational basis of learning and inference by mathematical modeling, computer simulation, and behavioral experiments. In psychology, it is an approach which develops computational models based on experimental results. It seeks to understand the basis behind the human method of processing of information. Early on computational cognitive scientists sought to bring back and create a scientific form of Brentano's psychology\n\nThere are two main purposes for the productions of artificial intelligence: to produce intelligent behaviors regardless of the quality of the results, and to model after intelligent behaviors found in nature. In the beginning of its existence, there was no need for artificial intelligence to emulate the same behavior as human cognition. Until 1960s, economist Herbert Simon and Allen Newell attempted to formalize human problem-solving skills by using the results of psychological studies to develop programs that implement the same problem-solving techniques as people would. Their works laid the foundation for symbolic AI and computational cognition, and even some advancements for cognitive science and cognitive psychology.\n\nThe field of symbolic AI is based on the physical symbol systems hypothesis by Simon and Newell, which states that expressing aspects of cognitive intelligence can be achieved through the manipulation of symbols. However, John McCarthy focused more on the initial purpose of artificial intelligence, which is to break down the essence of logical and abstract reasoning regardless of whether or not human employs the same mechanism.\n\nOver the next decades, the progress made in artificial intelligence started to be focused more on developing logic-based and knowledge-based programs, veering away from the original purpose of symbolic AI. Researchers started to believe that symbolic artificial intelligence might never be able to imitate some intricate processes of human cognition like perception or learning. The then perceived impossibility (since refuted ) of implementing emotion in AI, was seen to be a stumbling block on the path to achieving human-like cognition with computers. Researchers began to take a “sub-symbolic” approach to create intelligence without specifically representing that knowledge. This movement led to the emerging discipline of computational modeling, connectionism, and computational intelligence.\n\nAs it contributes more to the understanding of human cognition than artificial intelligence, computational cognitive modeling emerged from the need to define various cognition functionalities (like motivation, emotion, or perception) by representing them in computational models of mechanisms and processes. Computational models study complex systems through the use of algorithms of many variables and extensive computational resources to produce computer simulation. Simulation is achieved by adjusting the variables, changing one alone or even combining them together, to observe the effect on the outcomes. The results help experimenters make predictions about what would happen in the real system if those similar changes were to occur.\n\nWhen computational models attempt to mimic human cognitive functioning, all the details of the function must be known for them to transfer and display properly through the models, allowing researchers to thoroughly understand and test an existing theory because no variables are vague and all variables are modifiable. Consider a model of memory built by Atkinson and Shiffrin in 1968, it showed how rehearsal leads to long-term memory, where the information being rehearsed would be stored. Despite the advancement it made in revealing the function of memory, this model fails to provide answers to crucial questions like: how much information can be rehearsed at a time? How long does it take for information to transfer from rehearsal to long-term memory? Similarly, other computational models raise more questions about cognition than they answer, making their contributions much less significant for the understanding of human cognition than other cognitive approaches. An additional shortcoming of computational modeling is its reported lack of objectivity.\n\nJohn Anderson in his Adaptive Control of Thought-Rational (ACT-R) model uses the functions of computational models and the findings of cognitive science. The ACT-R model is based on the theory that the brain consists of several modules which perform specialized functions separate of each other. The ACT-R model is classified as a symbolic approach to cognitive science.\n\nAnother approach which deals more with the semantic content of cognitive science is connectionism or neural network modeling. Connectionism relies on the idea that the brain consists of simple units or nodes and the behavioral response comes primarily from the layers of connections between the nodes and not from the environmental stimulus itself.\n\nConnectionist network differs from computational modeling specifically because of two functions: neural back-propagation and parallel-processing. Neural back-propagation is a method utilized by connectionist network to show evidence of learning. After a connectionist network produce a response, the simulated results are compared to real-life situational results. The feedback provided by the backward propagation of errors would be used to improve accuracy for the network's subsequent responses. The second function, parallel-processing, stemmed from the belief that knowledge and perception are not limited to specific modules but rather are distributed throughout the cognitive networks. The present of parallel distributed processing has been shown in psychological demonstrations like the Stroop effect, where the brain seems to be analyzing the perception of color and meaning of language at the same time. However, this theoretical approach has been continually disproved because the two cognitive functions for color-perception and word-forming are operating separately and simultaneously, not parallel of each other.\n\nThe field of cognition may have benefitted from the use of connectionist network but setting up the neural network models can be quite a tedious task and the results may be less interpretable than the system they are trying to model. Therefore, the results may be used as evidence for a broad theory of cognition without explaining the particular process happening within the cognitive function. Other disadvantages of connectionism lie in the research methods it employs or hypothesis it tests as they have been proven inaccurate or ineffective often, taking connectionist models away from an accurate representation of how the brain functions. These issues cause neural network models to be ineffective on studying higher forms of information-processing, and hinder connectionism from advancing the general understanding of human cognition.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1988691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988691", "title": "Simon Easterby", "text": "Simon Easterby\n\nSimon Easterby (born 21 July 1975 in Harrogate, North Yorkshire) is an Irish former rugby union player. He is currently the forwards coach for the Irish national team.\n\nEasterby's father is English and his mother Irish. He is the younger brother of Guy Easterby, also an Ireland international. He was educated at Ampleforth College in North Yorkshire and was a member of St Hughs house.\n\nEasterby captained the Scarlets for five consecutive seasons and played more than 50 European games, 201 games (19 tries) for Llanelli and the Scarlets. He had been part of the West Wales region since signing from Leeds Carnegie in 1999. \nIn August 2010, Easterby was forced to retire through a knee injury at the age of 35.\n\nEasterby made his first international appearance in a Six Nations victory over Scotland at Lansdowne Road in 2000 and then became a regular in the side, being ever-present for the remainder of that Six Nations competition. Easterby then played in all three of the games during the summer tour but he missed all of the following season due to injury and did not return until the game against Scotland in September 2001. After Ireland's defeat, he lost his place but he did win a cap as a replacement against Samoa in November 2001. In 2002 he played a part in the first ten of Ireland's games – eight as a starter – but after that, he lost his place and he did not return until playing in two Tests during the summer tour of 2003 against Tonga and Samoa.\n\nHe was virtually ever-present for Ireland since then; he has received in total 65 caps and scored 40 points. Described as the \"elder statesman among Ireland's back-row options\" in 2007, one newspaper suggested that \"[2007] could well be Easterby's last Six Nations campaign\" As it turned out, Easterby played in one more Six Nations Championship in 2008, after which he retired from international rugby to concentrate on his club career.\n\nHe remains Ireland's most capped flanker with 65 caps for his country.\n\nEasterby received a call-up to the 2005 Lions tour to New Zealand, after Lawrence Dallaglio fractured his ankle in the first game of the tour. He forced his way into the Test team and covered himself in glory, including scoring a try in the second Test in Wellington. He took over the leadership duties for the 2005 Autumn series in the absence of injured duo Brian O'Driscoll and Paul O'Connell.\nIn total he has two British and Irish Lions caps.\n\nOn retiring, Easterby was officially confirmed as the Scarlets new defence coach and signed a two-year contract with the region and in June 2012, Easterby was confirmed as the new Head Coach for the Scarlets, following the departure of Nigel Davies to Gloucester.\n\nHis long association with the Scarlets came to an end in July 2014 when he was confirmed as Irelands new forwards coach, replacing the outgoing John Plumtree.\n\nEasterby is married to Sarra Elgan Rees, the daughter of ex-rugby union player Elgan Rees who played for Neath RFC, Wales and the British and Irish Lions. Former Scarlets and Wales full back Matt Cardey was best man at the wedding. Sarra Elgan Easterby is a TV presenter and a fluent Welsh speaker. Their daughter, Soffia, was born in 2007, and their son, Ffredi, was born in 2009.\n\nIn August 2014, Easterby was one of 200 public figures who were signatories to a letter to \"The Guardian\" expressing their hope that Scotland would vote to remain part of the United Kingdom in September's referendum on that issue.\n\n"}
{"id": "1988704", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988704", "title": "Luís de Sousa (writer)", "text": "Luís de Sousa (writer)\n\nFrei Luís de Sousa (born Manoel or Manuel de Sousa Coutinho; 1555 – 5 May 1632) was a Portuguese monk and prose-writer, born at Santarém, a member of the noble family of Sousa Coutinho.\n\nIn 1576, he broke off his studies at Coimbra University to join the order of Malta, and shortly afterwards was captured at sea by Barbary pirates and taken prisoner to Argel, where he met Cervantes. A year later, Manuel de Sousa Coutinho was ransomed, and landing on the coast of Aragon passed through Valencia, where he made the acquaintance of the poet Jaime Falcão, who seems to have inspired him with a taste for study and a quiet life.\n\nThe national disasters and family troubles increased his desire, which was confirmed when he returned to Portugal after the Battle of Alcácer Quibir. Between 1584 and 1586, he married a noble lady, Dona Magdalena de Vilhena, widow of Dom John of Portugal, the son of the poet Dom Manuel of Portugal, to whom Camões had dedicated his seventh ode.\n\nSettling at Almada, on the Tagus opposite Lisbon, he divided his time between domestic affairs, literary studies and his military duties as colonel of a regiment. His patriotic dislike of the Philippine Dynasty grew stronger as he saw Portugal exploited by her powerful partner, and it was ultimately brought to a head in 1599. In that year, to escape the pest that devastated Lisbon, the governors of the kingdom for Philip II decided to move their quarters to his residence; thereupon, finding his protest against this arbitrary resolution unheeded, he set fire to his house, and to escape the consequences of his courageous act had to leave Portugal.\n\nGoing to Madrid, he not only escaped any penalty, owing no doubt to his position and influence at the Spanish court, but was able to pursue his literary studies in peace and to publish the works of his friend Jaime Falcão (Madrid, 1600).\n\nNothing is known of how he passed the next thirteen years, though there is a tradition that, at the instance of a brother resident in Panama, who held out the prospect of large commercial gains, he spent some time in America. It is said that fortune was unpropitious, and that this, together with the news of the death of his only child, Dona Anna de Noronha, caused his return home about 1604.\n\nIn 1613, he and his wife agreed to a separation, and he took the Dominican habit in the convent of Benfica, while Dona Magdalena entered the convent of the Sacramento at Alcantara. According to an old writer, the motive for their act was the news, brought by a pilgrim from Palestine that Dona Magdalena's first husband had survived the battle of Alcácer Quibir, in which he was supposed to have fallen, and still lived; Almeida Garrett has immortalized the legend in his 1843 play \"Frei Luís de Sousa\". The story, however, deserves no credit, and a more natural explanation is that the pair took their resolution to leave the world for the cloister from motives of piety, though in the case of Manuel the captivity of his country and the loss of his daughter may have been contributory causes.\n\nHe made his profession on 8 September 1614, and took the name by which he is known as a writer, Frei Luís de Sousa. In 1616, on the death of Frei Luís Cacegas, another notable Dominican who had collected materials for a history of the order and for a life of the famous archbishop of Braga, Dom Bartholomew of the Martyrs, the task of writing these books was confided to Frei Luís. The \"Life of the Archbishop\" appeared in 1619, and the first part of the \"Chronicle of St Dominic\" in 1623, while the second and third parts appeared posthumously in 1662 and 1678; in addition he wrote, by order of the government, the \"Annals of D. John III.\", which were published by Alexandre Herculano in 1846. After a life of about nineteen years spent in religion, he died on 5 May 1632, in Benfica, Lisbon, leaving behind him a memory of strict observance and personal holiness.\n\nThe \"Chronicle of St Dominic\" and the \"Life of the Archbishop\" have the defect of most monastic writings—they relate for the most part only the good, and exaggerate it without scruple, and they admit all sorts of prodigies, so long as these tend to increase devotion. Briefly, these books are panegyrics, written for edification, and are not histories at all in the critical sense of the word. Their order and arrangement, however, are admirable, and the lucid, polished style, purity of diction, and simple, vivid descriptions, entitle Frei Luís de Sousa to rank as a great prose-writer. His metaphors are well chosen, and he employs on appropriate occasions familiar terms and locutions, and makes full use of those charming diminutives in which the Portuguese language is rich. His prose is characterized by elegance, sweetness and strength, and is remarkably free from the affectations and false rhetoric that characterized the age.\n\nIn addition to his other gifts, Frei Luís de Sousa was a good Latin poet. There are many editions of the \"Life of the Archbishop\", and it appeared in French (Paris, 1663, 1679 and 1825), in Italian (1727–1728), in Spanish (Madrid, 1645 and 1727) and in English (London, 1890). The \"História de S. Domingos\" may be read in a modern edition (6 vols, Lisbon, 1866).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1988710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988710", "title": "Tour de Suisse", "text": "Tour de Suisse\n\nThe Tour de Suisse () is an annual cycling stage race in Switzerland. Raced over nine days, the event covers two weekends in the latter half of June. Along with the Critérium du Dauphiné, it is considered a proving ground for the Tour de France, which is on the calendar two weeks after the end of the Tour de Suisse. Since 2011 the event is part of the UCI World Tour, cycling's highest level of professional races.\n\nThe race was first held in 1933 and has evolved in timing, duration and sponsorship. Like the Tour de France and the Dauphiné, the Tour de Suisse has several stages with significant mountain climbs in the Swiss Alps and at least one individual time trial. Several winners of the Tour de Suisse have also won the Tour de France, including Eddy Merckx and Jan Ullrich. In 2005 the Tour de Suisse was included in the inaugural UCI Pro Tour and organizers moved the race to earlier in June.\n\nThe first winner of the race was Austrian Max Bulla in the 1933 edition. The rider with most wins is Italian Pasquale Fornara with 4 wins in the 1950s. The most recent winner is Colombian Egan Bernal, who won for the first time in 2019.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1988739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988739", "title": "Cool on Your Island", "text": "Cool on Your Island\n\n\"Cool On Your Island\" is a song by the band Y Kant Tori Read, commercially released by Atlantic Records in 1988 as a 7\" vinyl single and a cassette single. Two versions of a promotional 7\" vinyl were also released, one with light blue labels and one with dark blue labels. The song was a commercial failure and received absolutely no critical comment. After the failure of the first single by the band, the label did not feel expenses were warranted to film a music video.\n\nThe promotional 7\" vinyl singles feature a double A-side of an edited version of the track. There was also a promotional CD single issued for the Phil Collins song \"A Groovy Kind of Love\". Inexplicably it featured \"Cool on Your Island\" as tracks 2 and 3; the album and edit versions. The track would go on to be a favourite for Amos to perform at live concerts later in her career.\n\nAmos has told a story on \"The Rosie O'Donnell Show\" regarding an incident where the release of this single may have kept her out of harm. She states that between the failure of \"Y Kant Tori Read\" and her successful solo career she was detained by German police while travelling because a friend (and co-traveller) had marijuana on her person. When the police were interrogating her, she stated she was a musician and that she had been \"on a record with Phil Collins.\" As he was extremely popular there at the time, she was set free.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1988742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988742", "title": "NWA World Television Championship", "text": "NWA World Television Championship\n\nThe NWA World Television Championship is a world television championship owned and promoted by the American professional wrestling promotion National Wrestling Alliance (NWA). The current champion is Zicky Dice, who is in his first reign.\n\nOn December 14, 2019, the NWA announced they were reintroducing the NWA World Television Championship with a tournament to determine a new champion. Although past Television champions from both the Georgia and Mid-Atlantic versions have been referred to on NWA programming, the original titles and respective lineage are currently owned by WWE. As it is a professional wrestling championship, the NWA World Television Championship is not won not by actual competition, but by a scripted ending to a match, determined by the bookers and match makers. On occasion the promotion declares a championship vacant, which means there is no champion at that point in time. This can either be due to a storyline, or real life issues such as a champion suffering an injury being unable to defend the championship, or leaving the company.\n\nOn December 14, 2019, during NWA's Into the Fire pay-per-view, it was announced they were reintroducing the NWA World Television Championship with a tournament to determine a new champion at their next PPV, Hard Times, on January 24, 2020. On the December 17 episode of NWA's weekly flagship program, \"NWA Power\", it was revealed that all NWA World Television Championship tournament matches would have a 6 minute, 5 second time limit. The time limit was an homage to the 6:05 PM start time of \"NWA Power\" as well as a tribute to the original start time for NWA's \"World Championship Wrestling\" that ran from the 1970s to 1992. All tournament competitors, as well as two qualifying matches, were then announced. On the January 7 episode of \"NWA Power\", Tim Storm clarified that six competitors would move on to the first round of the NWA World Television Championship tournament. He also announced there would be two additional spots open in the first round for competitors yet to be named and not currently on the NWA roster. The tournament bracket was unveiled on the January 14 episode of \"NWA Power.\" On the January 21 episode of \"NWA Power\", the final two competitors in the first round of the tournament were named: Matt Cross from the independent circuit and Dan Maff from Ring of Honor.\n\nOn the January 28, 2020 episode of NWA Power, the \"Lucky Seven Rule\" was announced. A champion who successfully defends the championship 7 consecutive times will receive a match for the NWA Worlds Heavyweight Championship.\n\n<br>\n<br>\n<br>\n\nThe current design is the same that Jim Crockett Promotions used from April 1985 to November 1988. It is also the same design World Championship Wrestling used from November 1988 to January 1991 and for the WCW World Television Championship belt from January 1991 to May 1992. The design uses a dual-colored leather strap (black front, red back) as the base. The main plate is nickel silver with a red background for the words “NWA Television Heavyweight Wrestling Champion.” An eagle’s head and wings sit underneath the “NWA” letters, a globe is etched in the silver underneath “Television,” and a wrestling ring with two figures is etched in the silver underneath “Heavyweight Wrestling Champion.” There are four side plates. On the left are the logos of two of the major television networks: NBC and ABC. On the right, the logo of the television network CBS is on one plate while an image of a satellite dish is on the other.\n\nAs of 17, 2020.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1988746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988746", "title": "Ben Gunn", "text": "Ben Gunn\n\nBen Gunn or Benjamin Gunn may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1988747", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988747", "title": "Interpersonal psychoanalysis", "text": "Interpersonal psychoanalysis\n\nInterpersonal psychoanalysis is based on the theories of American psychiatrist Harry Stack Sullivan (1892–1949). Sullivan believed that the details of a patient's interpersonal interactions with others can provide insight into the causes and cures of mental disorder.\n\nCurrent practitioners stress such features as the detailed description of clinical experience, the mutuality of the interpersonal process, and the not-knowing of the analyst.\n\nAlong with other neo-Freudian practitioners of interpersonal psychoanalysis, such as Horney, Fromm, Thompson and Fromm-Reichman, Sullivan repudiated Freudian drive theory.\n\nThey, like Sullivan, also shared the interdisciplinary emphasis that was to be an important part of the legacy of interpersonal psychoanalysis, influencing counsellors, clergymen, social workers and more.\n\nSullivan proposed that patients could keep certain aspects or components of their interpersonal relationships out of their awareness by a psychological behavior described as selective inattention - a term that has to a degree passed into common usage.\n\nA defence mechanism that functions prior to psychological repression, and acts by way of blocking all notice of the threat in question, selective inattention can also be accompanied by selective non-participation.\n\nBoth defences as used by patients may be usefully identified by the analyst through examination of his/her countertransference.\n\nSullivan emphasized that psychotherapists' analyses should focus on patients' relationships and personal interactions in order to obtain knowledge of what he called personifications – one's internalised views of self and others, one's internal schemata.\n\nSuch analyses would consist of detailed questioning regarding moment-to-moment personal interactions, even including those with the analyst himself.\n\nPersonifications can form the basis for what Sullivan called parataxic distortions of the interpersonal field – distortions similar to those described as the products of transference and projective identification in orthodox psychoanalysis. As with the latter, parataxic distortion can, if identified by the analyst, prove fruitful clues to the nature of the patient's inner world.\n\nSullivan has been criticised for inventing (sometimes opaque) neologisms for established psychoanalytic concepts, to claim a perhaps spurious intellectual independence.\n\n"}
{"id": "1988754", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988754", "title": "Kumiko Nakano", "text": "Kumiko Nakano\n\nNakano Kumiko (中野公美子, born March 3, 1977 in Osaka, Japan) is an actress who debuted as a Japanese idol with the girl band Osaka Performance Doll from 1993 to 1997.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1988758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988758", "title": "Leo Boivin", "text": "Leo Boivin\n\nLéo Joseph Boivin (born August 2, 1932) is a Canadian retired professional ice hockey defenceman who played 19 seasons in the National Hockey League for the Toronto Maple Leafs, Boston Bruins, Detroit Red Wings, Pittsburgh Penguins and Minnesota North Stars.\n\nLeo Boivin began playing hockey at seven years of age on the rivers and outdoor ice surfaces of Prescott, Ontario, near Ottawa, Ontario. He began his junior career with the Inkerman Rockets where he was spotted by a scout for the Boston Bruins who inked him to a contract. That led to a move to the Port Arthur Bruins for two more seasons. At the end of his Junior career, his rights were traded by Boston to the Toronto Maple Leafs. In 1951–52 he began playing for the American Hockey League (AHL) Pittsburgh Hornets and was promoted to the Toronto Maple Leafs. The Maple Leafs had lost hard-hitting blue liner Bill Barilko in the summer of 1951 when he disappeared on a fishing trip and the Toronto brass felt that Boivin's physical style could help fill that void. Boivin only got into two games in the 1951-52 season but joined the Maple Leafs as a regular the following year. Early in the 1954-55 season Boivin was traded back to the Bruins in exchange for Joe Klukay.\n\nBack in Boston, Boivin enjoyed his best years as a feared member of the Boston Bruins blue line and helped lead them to two Stanley Cup finals in the late 1950s. Boivin starred with other Boston defensive stalwarts Allan Stanley, Fern Flaman, Doug Mohns and Bob Armstrong. He remained the anchor of a youthful Bruins defensive corps during the difficult reconstructive period of the early 1960s. Boivin became captain of the Boston Bruins in 1963. In February 1966, Boivin was traded to the Detroit Red Wings in a five-player trade. \"I had been in Boston for a long time and they were struggling. (General Manager) Hap Emms asked me if I would go to Detroit. It was near the (trade) deadline. (Doug) Barkley lost his eye that year and Sid Abel wanted me to go there. I said, 'Sure, I'll go to Detroit.' It was quite a feeling to go in there because they had guys like (Gordie) Howe and (Alex) Delvecchio that I had hit hard through the years. But they welcomed me with open arms. I really enjoyed playing there.\" That spring he would help the Red Wings to the Stanley Cup Final, where they lost to the Montreal Canadiens.\n\nAfter one more season with Detroit, Boivin's career was winding down but age 35, he was given a chance to extend his career when the league doubled in size by adding six new franchise for the 1967-68 campaign. Boivin found a new home when he was selected by the Pittsburgh Penguins in 1967 NHL Expansion Draft. \"After sixteen years in the six-team league, expansion added on to my career. At that time, there were a lot of players playing in the American Hockey League that were great players who just didn't get a chance.\" He spent a season and half with the Penguins before moving on for a final time when he was traded to the Minnesota North Stars, another expansion club. After the North Stars were defeated in the quarterfinals the 1970 playoffs, Boivin retired. Punch Imlach, who was the head coach and General Manager of the first-year Buffalo Sabres tried to entice Boivin into playing one more season, but the veteran defender opted to stay retired though he did remain involved with the game at the NHL level.\n\nFollowing his retirement in 1970, Boivin became a scout. He became an interim coach of the St. Louis Blues during the 1975–76 and 1977–78 seasons, and coached the Ottawa 67's of the Ontario Hockey League for a brief period, tutoring young defenceman Denis Potvin. Boivin was inducted into the Hockey Hall of Fame in 1986.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1988768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988768", "title": "Dickie Boon", "text": "Dickie Boon\n\nRichard Robinson (January 10, 1878 – May 3, 1961) known as Dickie Boon was a Canadian ice hockey forward and manager. He played for the Montreal Hockey Club (Montreal HC) of the Canadian Amateur Hockey League (CAHL) and the Montreal Wanderers of the Federal Amateur Hockey League (FAHL) in the early 1900s. He was a player on two Stanley Cup winning teams and managed the Wanderers to four Cup titles. Boon was uncle to Lucille Wheeler-Vaughan, Canadian and world ski champion.\n\nBorn in Belleville, Ontario, one of seven children, four boys and three girls. Boon moved with his family to Montreal, where he became involved in several sports in his youth. He was a proficient speed skater, winning the 1892 Junior Amateur Championship. He was also involved in rowing and canoeing. The family home was on the present site of the Windsor train station in Montreal.\n\nIn 1894, at the age of 16, Boon began playing organized hockey with the \"Young Crystals\" at the old Crystal Rink in Montreal with another Hall of Famer, Mike Grant. In 1897, he joined the Monarch Hockey Club. In 1900 he joined the Montreal Hockey Club of the Montreal Amateur Athletic Association's junior club. The following year he was promoted to the senior team. He played the position of cover point, similar to today's defenceman. Considered to be 'fast and wiry', Boon is credited with being the first player to use the poke check, which he used to great success in stopping opposing forwards.\n\nBoon was the captain of the two-time Stanley Cup-winning Montreal HC teams of 1902 and 1903 which had several other future Hall of Famers including Jimmy Gardner, Tommy Phillips and Jack Marshall. He was effective despite being the smallest player on the team. Like many other members of the team dubbed the \"Little Men of Iron\", Boon left Montreal HC in December 1903 to found the Montreal Wanderers in the new Federal Amateur Hockey League (FAHL). He played with the club until 1905. At that point, professionalism was taking hold in hockey and Boon dropped out of playing hockey after the objections of his parents to him becoming a professional. He then turned to management of the Wanderers and he managed the club until 1916. He led the Wanderers to four Stanley Cup titles in 1906, 1907, 1908, and 1910 as Manager. Although Boon was a multiple winner of the Stanley Cup, he was not happy with it interfering in the season of play. In 1903, he was quoted as saying: \"The Cup is far from beneficial to the game, it is detrimental.\"\n\nIn 1910, Boon, along with Jimmy Gardner was instrumental in setting up the National Hockey Association (NHA) (predecessor of today's National Hockey League (NHL)) when the Wanderers were refused entry into the new Canadian Hockey Association (CHA), along with Renfrew. Gardner, Boon and Ambrose O'Brien conceived of founding the NHA on the spot, after the CHA had met to expel the Wanderers and in the same hotel, the Hotel Windsor in Montreal. The NHA would be innovative in making professional hockey more business-like.\n\nIn 1924, Boon was approached by James Strachan, former owner of the Wanderers and part-owner of the new Montreal Hockey Club franchise entering the National Hockey League to negotiate the use of the name \"Wanderers\" for the new team. The negotiations were unsuccessful and the team was instead nameless, until the nickname \"Maroons\" came into use, after the colour of their sweaters.\n\nAfter retiring from playing hockey, Boon became a co-founder of the Boon-Strachan Coal business. After leaving the ice for good, he took up curling and golf. He was a long-time member of the Outremont Curling Club and the Club's Boon Trophy was named after him. In 1954, he was named one of Montreal's outstanding sportsmen by the Sportsmen's Association of Montreal.\n\nHe died at his Outremont, Quebec home on May 3, 1961 after being in poor health for several months. He had continued to curl until 1959 when he was injured in a golf cart accident that fractured his pelvis. He had continued playing golf until the fall of 1960 not long before his death. Boon was survived by his widow Kathleen Fitzgerald. He was later buried at Mount Royal Cemetery in Montreal.\n\nSource: Hockey Hall of Fame\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1988770", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988770", "title": "Political killing", "text": "Political killing\n\nPolitical killing may refer to:\n"}
{"id": "1988772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988772", "title": "Tatung Company", "text": "Tatung Company\n\nTatung Company () (Tatung; ) is a multinational corporation established in 1918 and headquartered in Zhongshan, Taipei, Taiwan.\n\nEstablished in 1918 and headquartered in Taipei, Tatung Company holds 3 business groups, which include 8 business units such as Industrial Appliance BU, Motor BU, Wire & Cable BU, Solar BU, Smart Meter BU, System Integration BU, Appliance BU, and Advanced Electronics BU. As a conglomerate, Tatung's investees involve in some major industries such as optoelectronics, energy, system integration, industrial system, branding retail channel, and asset development.\n\n1918\nEstablishment of Xie Zhi Business Enterprise, the forerunner of Tatung Company, by founder and chairman, Mr. Shang-Zhi Lin\nCompleted over 600 constructions, including the Tamsui River embankment project and the Executive Yuan building\n\n1939\nTatung Iron Works was established. (When Taiwan was handed over from Japan to the Republic of China in 1945, Tatung Iron Works was renamed \"Tatung Steel and Machinery Manufacturing Company.\")\n\n1942\nMr. T. S. Lin succeeded as chairman of Tatung and principal of both Tatung High School and Tatung University\nEstablishment of Tatung High School\n\n1949\nMass production of electric fans and motors\n\n1960\nMass production of Tatung rice cookers\n\n1962\nThe Company became publicly listed on the Taiwan Stock Exchange\n\n1966\nEstablishment of Wire & Cable Plant in Taoyuan County\n\n1968\nThe Company renamed from Tatung Steel and Machinery Company to Tatung Company and officially registered as so \n\n1969\nCompany mascot (Tatung Boy) and song launched\nMass production of color TVs\n\n1970\nRevenues exceeded NT$2.2 billion, making Tatung Taiwan's foremost private company\n\n1972\nMr. W. S. Lin appointed as president of Tatung\n\n1977\nParticipated in the Ten Major Construction Projects (Taiwan's Trente Glorieuses under Taiwan Miracle) with the construction of a slag treatment facility for China Steel and provision for Chiang Kai-shek International Airport's power control station\n\n2000\nChunghwa Picture Tubes was listed on the OTC market\n\n2001\nGlobal Management Division set up at the company's headquarters\nChunghwa Picture Tubes was listed on the Taiwan Stock Exchange\n\n2003\nMass production of LCD and PDP TVs\n\n2004\nSet up a new subsidiary Toes Opto-Mechatronics Company\nEstablished SeQual Technologies Co. to produce the oxygen generator for clinical therapy and home health care uses\nEstablished Tatung Compressors (Zhongshan) Co. in China\n\n2005\nConsolidated Tatung's Desktop PC Business Unit with Elitegroup Computer Systems (ECS), making Tatung the largest shareholder of ECS\nEstablished Tatung Wire & Cable Technology (Wujiang) Co. in China\n\n2006\nMr. W. S. Lin was elected as chairman and president of Tatung\nGreen Energy Technology started trading on the emerging stock market\n\n2007\nForward Electronics invested in Apollo Solar Energy Co. to expand its scope into the market of solar cell module\n\n2008\nGreen Energy Technology was listed on the Taiwan Stock Exchange on 25 January\nEstablished Tatung Electric Technology (Vietnam) Co. for the manufacturing and sales of wires and cables\n\n2009\nTatung University launched WiMAX network, the first wireless broadband network ever built in campus alike\nTo help the victims of Typhoon Morakot, Tatung initiated a Special Service Project in which 1,000 technicians and 70 service trucks were mobilized in and around the affected areas to help handle damaged home appliance items. The employees of Tatung Group together with the staff of Tatung University and Tatung High School also donated their one-day earnings totaling to NT$10 million to those in need\n\n2010\nNew Energy Business Unit set up a crystal growth center to manufacture multi-crystalline silicon bricks, a milestone for HQ's involvement in the crystal-related business\nLuxury condominium, \"Tatung Noble Residences (Phase Ⅱ of Tatung Tomorrow World)\", the 2nd project in Nangang by Shan Chih Asset Development, was under construction\n\n2011\nMrs. W.Y. Lin was appointed President of Tatung\n\n2012\nLithium iron phosphate cathode material by Tatung Fine Chemicals successfully entered into Japanese market of energy storage\n\n"}
{"id": "1988774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988774", "title": "Brown's Inlet", "text": "Brown's Inlet\n\nBrown's Inlet is a body of water in central Ottawa. A former creek, it grew considerably in size with the creation of the Rideau Canal, into which it now empties. Originally considerably larger, the inlet was shortened and divided so that today on the surface it is two ponds, but they are connected underground. The inlet is in the southern part of the Glebe neighbourhood, emptying into the canal near the Bank Street Bridge. The two ponds of the inlet are surrounded by parks and expensive homes. The ponds are home to a wide array of wild life including frogs, turtles, fish, and birds.\n"}
{"id": "1988778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988778", "title": "Clan Gunn", "text": "Clan Gunn\n\nClan Gunn () is a Highland Scottish clan associated with lands in northeastern Scotland, including Caithness, Sutherland and, arguably, the Orkney Isles. Clan Gunn is one of the oldest Scottish Clans, being descended from the Norse Jarls of Orkney and the Pictish Mormaers of Caithness.\n\nThe traditional origin of the Clan Gunn is that the progenitor of the clan was one \"Gunni\" who came to Caithness at the end of the 12th century when his wife, Ragnhild, inherited the estates from her brother, Harald Maddadsson who was the Earl of Orkney. His wife descended from St Ragnvald, who was the founder of the St Magnus Cathedral in Kirkwall, Orkney. \"Gunni\", whose name meant \"war\", was allegedly descended from Viking adventurers and his grandfather was \"Sweyn\" who was killed in a raid on Dublin in 1171. Smibert, however, states that the Gunns were of Gaelic origin. Further information on the Norse origins of Clan Gunn can be found in an article written by Michael James Gunn, quoting Sir Robert Gordon's \"A Genealogical History of The Earldom of Sutherland\" from the 17th century: \"Sir Robert Gordon, in researching genealogies for his work interviewed many of the heads of families in Sutherland, among them Alexander Gun of Kilearnan and Navidale, 4th Mackeamish, who died in 1655. From him he learned that Mackeamish’s family \"are called Clan-Gun from one called Gun, whom they allege to have been the king of Denmarke his sone, and came many dayes agoe from Denmark, and settled himself in Catteynes.\" The significance of this statement is made clear when it is remembered that, in Sir Robert Gordon’s time, the kingdoms of Denmark and Norway were united under the Danish crown. However, the ancient Gaelic sennachies described the Gunns as Lochlainnach, or Norwegians, not Danes, because at the time of their forbear’s arrival in Orkney and Caithness Norway was a separate kingdom and not united with Denmark until the Union of Kalmar in 1391.\n\nThe first 'chief' of the Clan Gunn to appear in historical records definitively was George Gunn, who was the \"crouner\" or \" coroner\" of Caithness during the 15th century. The later Celtic patronymic of the Gunn chiefs may have been \"MacSheumais Chataich\", however 'George' Gunn was widely known as \"Am Braisdeach Mor\" which means the \"great brooch-wearer\". This was due to the insignia that was worn by him as coroner. George is said to have held court at his Clyth Castle in such splendor that it would rival any Highland chief.\n\nThe Battle of Harpsdale was fought in 1426 where the Clan Gunn fought an inconclusive battle with the Clan Mackay.\n\nThe Gunn's traditional enemies were the Clan Keith, who from their Ackergill Castle, challenged the Gunn chiefs for both political needs and for land. In one such feud it was claimed that Dugald Keith coveted Helen, daughter of Gunn of Braemor. The girl resisted Keith's advances but on learning that she was to be married to another man, he surrounded her father's house, slew many of the inhabitants and carried the girl to Ackergill Castle where she threw herself from the tower, rather than submitting to her kidnapper. The Gunns retaliated and repeatedly raided the Keith's territory; however, they suffered defeat in 1438 or 1464 at the Battle of Tannach. Both sides having suffered considerable losses agreed to meet and settle their differences in what is known as the Battle of Champions, where each side was to bring twelve horses. However, the Keiths arrived with two warriors on each horse and slaughtered the outnumbered Gunns. This was in turn avenged by the chief's remaining son James who killed Keith of Ackergill and his son at Drummoy.\n\nIn 1517 the Clan Gunn supported the Clan Sutherland in defeating the Clan Mackay at the Battle of Torran Dubh.\n\nAlistair Gunn, son of John Robson Gunn, had become a man of much note and power in the North. He had married the daughter of John Gordon, 11th Earl of Sutherland and for this reason \"he felt entitled to hold his head high amongst the best in Scotland\". His pride, or perhaps his loyalty to the Earl of Sutherland, led to his undoing when in 1562, he led Gordon's retinue and encountered James Stewart, 1st Earl of Moray, and his followers on the High Street of Aberdeen. The Earl of Moray was the bastard half-brother of Mary, Queen of Scots, as well as the son-in-law of William Keith, 4th Earl Marischal, chief of Clan Keith. It was the custom at the time to yield thoroughfares to the personage of greater rank, and in refusing to yield the middle of the street to Stewart and his train, Alistair publicly insulted the Earl. Stewart soon afterward had him pursued to a place called Delvines, near Nairn. There he was captured and taken to Inverness, and following a mock trial, he was executed.\n\nIn the late 16th century the Gunns were involved in a number of feuds against the Earl of Sutherland and Earl of Caithness. In 1586 at the Battle of Allt Camhna the Clan Gunn was victorious but they were defeated shortly afterward by a massive force at the Battle of Leckmelm.\n\nDuring the 17th century the Clan Gunn strengthened their links with the Clan Mackay when Gunn of Killearnan married Mary Mackay, sister of Lord Reay, chief of Clan Mackay. The next Gunn chief married Lord Reay's daughter.\n\nAnother branch of the clan, the Gunns of Bramore, who descend from Robert, a younger son of \"Am Braisdeach Mor\" were generally known as the Robson Gunns. Sir William Gunn, brother of the Robson chief, despite being Catholic served in the army of the Protestant king of Sweden, and rose to command a battalion. He later fought for Charles I and received a knighthood in 1639. He later returned to the Continent where he served the Holy Roman Empire and married a German baroness. He became an imperial general and was created baron of the Holy Roman Empire in 1649.\n\nThe Gunns as a Clan did not support the Stuarts and fought for the British government during the Jacobite rising of 1745. Alexander Gunn, chief of the Clan Gunn was a Captain of an Independent Highland Company that fought for the British Government.\n\nGunns did independently fight for the Bonnie Prince and a list can be found in the publication No Quarter Given, the muster roll of Prince Charles Edward Stuart's Army 1745–46.\n\nOn 25 September 2015, the Lord Lyon King of Arms for Scotland issued an interlocutor recognizing Iain Alexander Gunn of Banniskirk as Chief of Clan Gunn. He is now Iain Alexander Gunn of that Ilk, Chief of Clan Gunn. At a Family Convention, held in Orkney on July 18, 2015, a petition to the Lyon Court requesting this recognition was approved and sent to the Lyon for action. For the first time in 230 years the Clan has a recognized Chief. Iain previously served as Commander of Clan Gunn for over forty-three years.\n\nIain Alexander Gunn of Banniskirk was appointed the second Commander of Clan Gunn, by commission of Lord Lyon on 9 June 1972. He was Secretary of the Clan Gunn UK Society on its establishment in 1961. The first Commander was his Uncle, William Gunn of Banniskirk, who held the title 1967–1968.\n\nIn 1978, the Chief of Clan Keith and the Commander of Clan Gunn signed a peace treaty at the site of the Chapel of St. Tayrs, ending the feud between the two clans which began in 1478.\n\n\nThe Gunn tartan is found in 'weathered', 'ancient', 'muted', and 'modern' colourings.\nA picture of the Tartan \n\n"}
{"id": "1988779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988779", "title": "Frank Boucher", "text": "Frank Boucher\n\nFrançois Xavier \"Raffles\" Boucher (October 7, 1901 – December 12, 1977) was a Canadian professional ice hockey player and executive. Boucher played the forward position for the Ottawa Senators and New York Rangers in the National Hockey League (NHL) and the Vancouver Maroons in the Pacific Coast Hockey Association (PCHA). Frank later became coach and the general manager of the New York Rangers.\n\nBorn in Ottawa, Ontario, in 1901, Boucher was the youngest son in a family of six sons and two daughters born to Tom Boucher and Annie Carroll. His paternal grandfather, Antoine Boucher was French, while his other grandparents were of Irish descent. Frank Boucher was one of four brothers who played in the NHL. His brother, Georges \"Buck\" Boucher, played on the Ottawa Senators dynasty of the 1920s, winning four Stanley Cups. Brothers Bobby and Billy also played in the NHL. There were two other brothers, Carroll and Joseph, and two sisters, Irene and Lily. The family lived in the New Edinburgh neighbourhood of Ottawa.\n\nFrank's nephew, Sgt. Frank Boucher, son of Georges, was the head coach of Canada's 1948 Olympic gold medal winning ice hockey team - the Ottawa RCAF Flyers.\n\nBoucher inherited some of his athletic ability from his father Tom, who played rugby football for the Ottawa Rough Riders, winning Canadian championships in 1894, 1896, 1897 and 1901, playing alongside Tom \"King\" Clancy, whose son was the famous hockey player King Clancy. Boucher recalls receiving his first pair of skates at age six for Christmas, double-runners which he promptly fell from and never used again. Frank and the rest of the brothers would play games on outdoor rinks, including rinks on the Rideau River and for local New Edinburgh teams. To pay for team equipment, the team members would canvass the neighbourhood, which included Rideau Hall, where Boucher would first meet Lady Byng. Boucher attended Crichton Public School but dropped out of school at age thirteen. He took a job as an office boy with the federal government munitions department for the duration of World War I. After World War I, Boucher joined the Royal Canadian Mounted Police and moved west.\n\nWhile in Lethbridge working with the Mounties, Boucher played for the Lethbridge Vets along with Mountie teams he organized. After a year working in Banff, Alberta, Frank returned home to play for the Ottawa Senators for the 1921–22 season, where he would play with his brother George. Because he had played senior hockey out west, his playing rights belonged to the PCHA, but he was allowed to play the season for Ottawa on condition he then play for the Vancouver Maroons in following seasons. In a twist of fate, he joined the Stanley Cup champions but the Senators lost the NHL title that year to the Toronto St. Pats, who would defeat Vancouver in the Stanley Cup Final.\n\nBoucher played for the Maroons until 1926. The Maroons would play in the 1923 Stanley Cup Final against the Senators, losing 3-2. His brother George still played for the Senators. The Maroons played in the against Montreal, who had the other Boucher brothers Billy and Bob, losing to the Canadiens in a best-of-three series 2–0. A highlight of the second game, a Maroons 2–1 loss, was that all goals were scored by the Bouchers, two by Billy and one by Frank.\n\nIn 1926, when the western league dissolved, his rights were sold to the Boston Bruins. He never played for the Bruins as Conn Smythe then paid the Bruins $1500 for Boucher, on the advice of Bill Cook, whom he'd played against out west, but would play with during his time with the Rangers. Boucher became a member of the original New York Rangers team.\n\nBoucher played for the Rangers until he retired in 1937–38. Boucher centered the famous Bread Line with the brothers Bill and Bun Cook, and together they helped the Rangers win the Stanley Cup in 1928 and 1933, also reaching the Finals in 1932.\n\nFrank was not only a brilliant forward, but was also one of the game's classiest. Lady Byng, wife of Viscount Byng, the Governor-General of Canada, donated a trophy to be awarded to the NHL's \"most gentlemanly player.\" While playing for the New York Rangers, Boucher won the Lady Byng Memorial Trophy seven times in eight years. He was then given the trophy outright, and Lady Byng donated another trophy to the NHL.\n\nThe Rangers hired him to coach the New York Rovers, a minor-league team that also played at Madison Square Garden, as his apprenticeship to coaching the Rangers. When general manager Lester Patrick made the decision to retire from coaching prior to the 1939–40 season, he hired Boucher, who led his Ranger club to the last Stanley Cup. The franchise would be in existence for 68 seasons before they won a Cup without Boucher being directly involved.\n\nAfter finishing first in the NHL's regular season in 1942, the Rangers lost in the playoffs to the Toronto Maple Leafs. Soon they became victims of the military draft of World War II and went into a steep decline. In 1943–44 NHL season the New York Rangers were so bad that Boucher came out of retirement for 15 games to play where he recorded 14 points; at age 42, he was the oldest position player ever to play in the NHL, a record he held until surpassed by Doug Harvey in 1968. The Rangers finished the 50 game season with only 6 wins. Between appearances in 1940 and 1972 they reached the Stanley Cup Finals only once.\n\nWhen Patrick retired, Frank took over as general manager. He got the Rangers into the playoffs in 1947–48 with his trade to get Buddy O'Connor and Frank Eddolls. He stepped down from coaching to concentrate on his manager's job and hired Lynn Patrick, Lester's son and an ex-teammate, to coach the Rangers, and Lynn came very close to winning the Stanley Cup in 1950, proving Boucher astute in hiring him as coach. But the Rangers were an aging team, and eroded. Lynn Patrick resigned to go to Boston, and neither Neil Colville nor Bill Cook, also former teammates of Boucher's, could get the Rangers into the playoffs. General John Kilpatrick, the Rangers' owner, thought about replacing Boucher, but he held off.\n\nDuring the 1945–46 season, Boucher became the first coach to use two goalies regularly. Alternating Charlie Rayner and Jim Henry every game, and later, every four to six minutes, he proved the usefulness of having two goalies.\n\nFrank went back behind the bench in 1953–54, but could not get the Rangers into the playoffs. He then hired Muzz Patrick, another son of Lester and ex-teammate, to coach the team, but the Rangers won only 17 games and missed the playoffs again. So General Kilpatrick had a talk with Frank and reluctantly expressed that Frank could not build the Rangers into a winner, and recommended Frank resign as general manager. Frank thought it over, realizing that it was better than being fired. He then typed his resignation and handed it in to the General, ending his 29-year association with the Rangers.\n\nHe was inducted into the Hockey Hall of Fame in 1958. In 1998, he was ranked number 61 on \"The Hockey News\"' list of the 100 Greatest Hockey Players. His uniform number 7 hangs in the rafters of Madison Square Garden, although it was retired for a later Ranger, Rod Gilbert.\n\nIn 1974, Boucher wrote \"When the Rangers Were Young\", a book about his experiences with the old-time Broadway Blueshirts, giving him one last moment of fame during his lifetime. He died of cancer on December 12, 1977, in the town of Kemptville, Ontario, near Ottawa, at the age of 76.\n\nIn the 2009 book \"100 Ranger Greats\", the authors ranked Bouche at No. 9 all-time of the 901 New York Rangers who had played during the team's first 82 seasons.\n\n"}
{"id": "1988782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988782", "title": "Međimurje Party", "text": "Međimurje Party\n\nThe Međimurje Party ( or MS) is a regional political party in Croatia, formed in Međimurje in 2000. It is usually aligned with right-wing parties.\n\nAt the last legislative elections, 23 November 2003, an alliance of the Croatian Party of Rights (\"Hrvatska stranka prava\"), the Međimurje Party and the Zagorje Democratic Party - won 6.4% of the popular vote and 8 out of 151 seats, all for the HSP.\n"}
{"id": "1988789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988789", "title": "The Black EP", "text": "The Black EP\n\nThe Black EP is an EP by American rock band Interpol, released in August 2003 by EMI Records. It includes \"Say Hello to the Angels\" (taken from their debut album, \"Turn on the Bright Lights\"), a demo version of \"NYC\", and four live recordings from the Black Sessions recorded on French radio station Radio France.\n\n\n\nReleases\n"}
{"id": "1988790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988790", "title": "Georges Boucher", "text": "Georges Boucher\n\nJohn Georges \"Buck\" Boucher (August 19, 1895 – October 17, 1960) was a Canadian professional ice hockey defenceman who played for the Ottawa Senators, Montreal Maroons, and Chicago Black Hawks in the National Hockey League. Born in Ottawa, Ontario, Buck was one of six brothers. His brothers Frank, Bobby and Billy all played in the NHL. Their father Tom Boucher, played rugby football, winning the Canadian championship in 1894, 1896, 1897 and 1901. Boucher started his professional athletic career in football as halfback for the Ottawa Rough Riders of the Canadian Football League. After three years of football he switched to hockey.\n\nGeorges was one of six sons born to Tom Boucher and Annie Carroll. His paternal grandfather, Antoine Boucher was French while his other grandparents were Irish in descent. His brothers Billy, Bob and Frank would also become professional ice hockey players. There were two other brothers, Carroll and Joseph, and two sisters, Irene and Lily. Their father played rugby football, winning the Canadian championship in 1894, 1896, 1897 and 1901.\n\nBuck's son, Sgt. Frank Boucher, was the head coach of Canada's 1948 Olympic gold medal winning ice hockey team - the Ottawa RCAF Flyers.\n\nHe played as an amateur with the Ottawa Aberdeens and the New Edinburghs and Royal Canadians of the Ottawa City Hockey League teams. He started play with the Senators, then of the NHA, in 1915. At the time, he played as a forward.\n\nBoucher would soon switch to play as a defenceman where he would gain fame as an excellent stick handler. He would play with stars such as Eddie Gerard, Horrace Merrill, Sprague Cleghorn, Lionel Hitchman and King Clancy.\n\nBoucher helped lead the Senators to four Stanley Cups between 1920 and 1927. He played in the NHL from 1917 to 1932, scoring 117 goals and 87 recorded assists in 449 games. An extremely tough customer, he also had 838 penalty minutes, including 115 in just 44 games in 1926–27. At his retirement in 1932 he ranked 11th among NHL career points leaders.\n\nHe would go on to coach in the NHL in Ottawa, Boston, St. Louis and Chicago. He would coach the Ottawa Senators of the Quebec Hockey League to the Allan Cup in 1949.\n\nHe suffered from throat cancer for six years and was inducted into the Hockey Hall of Fame in 1960, just three weeks before he died.\n\n"}
{"id": "1988802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988802", "title": "Robert Karlsson", "text": "Robert Karlsson\n\nRobert Karlsson (born 3 September 1969) is a Swedish professional golfer who has played on the European Tour and the PGA Tour and plays on the PGA Tour Champions.\n\nKarlsson was born in Katrineholm, Sweden where his father Björn was a greenkeeper at the local golf club. His family lived close to the golf course, just next to the practice green, were Karlsson spent a lot of time and later officially named \"Robert's green\", written on a plate on a stone nearby.\n\nAs an 19-year-old amateur in 1989, he became the sixth Swedish player to complete all four rounds in The Open Championship, achieved at Royal Troon Golf Club, at his Open debut, playing the last round with defending Open champion Seve Ballesteros and tying Ballesteros at 76th place and second best amateur after sinking a 3-yard putt on the last hole. The month before, he represented Sweden at the European Amateur Team Championship, at Royal Portcawl, Wales, and finished tied fourth individually with Peter McEvoy, England, in the stroke-play qualification competition.\n\nHe turned professional in late 1989 and qualified for membership of the European Tour at the 1990 Qualifying School. Since then he has retained his card and has had a steady career on tour, the highlight of which came in 2008 when he won the Order of Merit. He has finished in the top-20 of the Order of Merit seven times throughout his career and has won 11 events on tour.\n\nAt the 2006 Celtic Manor Wales Open, Karlsson broke the European Tour's 36 hole and 54 hole scoring records by shooting 124 for the first two rounds and 189 for the first three. However as the course was a par 69, which is rare at the top level, his to-par scores were less remarkable 14 under after two rounds and 18 under after three.\n\nKarlsson's second victory of 2006 at the Deutsche Bank Players Championship of Europe in July helped him reach the top 50 of the Official World Golf Rankings and in 2008 he entered the top 25. His win at the Alfred Dunhill Links Championship took him to number 8 in October 2008. A T3 finish at the Portugal Masters two weeks later took him to number 6. He has spent over 25 weeks in the top-10 since 2008.\n\nKarlsson was a member of the Continental Europe team in the Seve Trophy in 2000, 2002 and 2007. In 1999 he was eleventh on the Ryder Cup qualifying table just missing out on the last automatic place, and was not selected as a captain's pick. He made his Ryder Cup debut in 2006, at the age of 37, along with fellow Swede Henrik Stenson. He played again in 2008, forming a partnership with Pádraig Harrington in the foursomes and beating Justin Leonard 5 & 3 in the singles on Sunday.\n\nAfter a strong finish to the season, Karlsson won the 2008 European Tour Order of Merit, being the first Swedish golfer to do so. This achievement resulted in him winning Swedish Male Athlete of the Year Award at the Swedish Sports Gala in January 2009, also a Swedish male golfer first. After the 2008 season, he also received the Swedish Golfer of the Year award, male and female, for the first time of two during his career. He won the World Cup for Sweden with teammate Henrik Stenson in November 2008. The two of them finished second to United States at their try to defense in the event the year after and received The Team of the Year award at the Swedish Sports Gala in January 2010.\n\nIn June 2009, Karlsson suffered from an eye injury, with no depth-perception in his left eye. It occurred during the week of the St. Jude Classic, the week before the U.S. Open, which Karlsson was set to play in, teeing off in the first round with fellow Swede Henrik Stenson. The eye injury caused Karlsson to withdraw from the event and he missed most of the rest of the 2009 season. He returned for The Vivendi Trophy toward the end of the season, and completed his recovery by claiming his tenth Tour title at the 2010 Commercialbank Qatar Masters the following January. In June, Karlsson lost in a sudden death playoff to Lee Westwood at the St. Jude Classic. In 2011, Karlsson was again in a playoff at the St. Jude Classic, where he lost to long-suffering veteran Harrison Frazar.\n\nIn May 2017, Thomas Bjørn selected Karlsson as his first vice-captain for the 2018 Ryder Cup, and in September 2019 Pádraig Harrington did the same for the 2020 Ryder Cup.\n\nAs Karlsson turned 50 in 2019, he became eligible for the PGA Tour Champions, and qualified for the 2020 season by finishing third at the PGA Tour Champions National Qualifying Tournament in December 2019.\n\nKarlsson is known as \"The Scientist\" for his contemplative and analytical style of play.\n\nKarlsson was one of the tallest golfers on the European Tour at . Like many leading Swedish golfers he lives outside his home country, formerly based himself in Monaco and in 2010 moved to Charlotte, North Carolina, United States.\n\nKarlsson is a member of the \"Champions for Peace\" club, a group of 54 famous elite athletes committed to serving peace in the world through sport, created by Peace and Sport, a Monaco-based international organization.\n\nIn 2016, Karlsson supported the creating of a European Challenge Tour event at his old home club Katrineholm Golf Club in Sweden, Swedish Challenge hosted by Robert Karlsson. The tournament took place in 2016, 2017 and 2018.\n\n\nEuropean Tour playoff record (3–3)\nPGA Tour playoff record (0–2)\nJapan Golf Tour playoff record (0–1)\n\nCUT = missed the half way cut<br>\n\"T\" indicates a tie for a place.\n\n\n\"T\" indicates a tie for a place\n\nCancelled due to 9/11<br>\n\nQF, R16, R32, R64 = Round in which player lost in match play<br>\n\"T\" = Tied<br>\nNote that the HSBC Champions did not become a WGC event until 2009.\n\nAmateur\n\nProfessional\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1988806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988806", "title": "Lolita (1997 film)", "text": "Lolita (1997 film)\n\nLolita is a 1997 drama film directed by Adrian Lyne and written by Stephen Schiff. It is the second screen adaptation of Vladimir Nabokov's 1955 novel of the same name and stars Jeremy Irons as Humbert Humbert and Dominique Swain as Dolores \"Lolita\" Haze, with supporting roles by Melanie Griffith as Charlotte Haze, and Frank Langella as Clare Quilty. The film is about a middle-aged male professor, Humbert, who rents a room in the house of the widow Charlotte Haze and becomes sexually attracted to her adolescent daughter Dolores, also called \"Lo\" or \"Lolita\".\n\nLyne's film is more overt with many of the novel's darker elements compared to Stanley Kubrick's 1962 version, which used suggestion and innuendo for comic purposes.\n\nThe film had difficulty finding an American distributor and premiered in Europe before being released in the United States. The film was eventually picked up in the United States by Showtime, a cable network, before finally being released theatrically by The Samuel Goldwyn Company. The performances by Irons and Swain impressed audiences, but, although praised by some critics for its faithfulness to Nabokov's narrative, the film received a mixed critical reception in the United States. \"Lolita\" was met with much controversy in Australia, where it was not given a theatrical release until April 1999.\n\nIn 1947, Humbert Humbert (Jeremy Irons), a middle-aged European professor of English literature, travels to the United States to take a teaching position in New Hampshire. He rents a room in the home of widow Charlotte Haze (Melanie Griffith), largely because he is romantically attracted to her 14-year-old daughter Dolores (Dominique Swain), also called \"Lo\", who he sees while touring the house. Obsessed from boyhood with girls of approximately her age (whom he calls \"nymphets\"), Humbert is immediately smitten with Lo and marries Charlotte only to be near her daughter.\n\nCharlotte finds Humbert's secret diary and discovers his preference for her daughter. Furious, Charlotte runs out of the house, when she is struck by a car and killed. Her death frees Humbert to pursue a romantic and sexual relationship with Lo, whom he nicknames \"Lolita\". Humbert and Lo then travel the country, staying in various motels before eventually settling in the college town of Beardsley, where Humbert takes a teaching job and Lo begins attending Beardsley Prep School an all-girls Catholic school. Humbert and Lo must conceal the nature of their relationship from everyone- strangers they encounter when traveling as well as the administration at Beardsley. They present themselves to the world as a father and daughter. Over time, Lo's increasing boredom with Humbert, combined with her growing desire for independence, fuels a constant tension that lead to a fight between them. Humbert's affection for Lo is also rivaled by another man, playwright Clare Quilty (Frank Langella), who has been pursuing Lo since the beginning of the pair's travels. Lo eventually escapes with Quilty, and Humbert's search for them is unsuccessful, especially as he doesn't know Quilty's name.\n\nThree years later, Humbert receives a letter from Lo asking for money. Humbert visits Lo, who is now married and pregnant. Her husband, Richard, knows nothing about her past. Humbert asks her to run away with him, but she refuses. He relents and gives her a substantial amount of money. Lo also reveals to Humbert how Quilty actually tracked young girls and took them to Pavor Manor, his home in Parkington, to exploit them for child pornography. Quilty abandoned her after she refused to be in one of his films.\n\nAfter his visit with Lo, Humbert tracks down Quilty and murders him. After being chased by the police, Humbert is arrested and sent to prison. He dies in prison on November 1950 due to a coronary thrombosis, and Lo dies the next month on Christmas Day from childbirth complications.\n\nThe first screen adaptation of the book, 1962's \"Lolita\", was credited solely to Nabokov, although it was heavily revised by Stanley Kubrick and James Harris and was directed by Kubrick.\n\nThe screenplay for the 1997 version, more faithful to the text of the novel than the earlier motion picture, is credited to Stephen Schiff, a writer for \"The New Yorker\", \"Vanity Fair\", and other magazines. Schiff was hired to write it as his first movie script, after the film's producers had rejected commissioned screenplays from the more experienced screenwriters and directors James Dearden (\"Fatal Attraction\"), Harold Pinter, and David Mamet. According to Schiff:\nSchiff added that Kubrick's film might better have been titled \"Quilty\", since the director had \nallowed the character of Quilty to \"take over the movie\".\n\nLyne states in the DVD commentary that he prefers location shooting even though it is more difficult in some respects; and that the home of Charlotte Haze was filmed in Wilmington, North Carolina.\n\n\"Lolita\" premiered in the United States on Showtime on August 2, 1998. Due to the difficulty in securing a distributor, the film received a limited theatrical run in the US on September 25, 1998, in order to qualify for awards. Accordingly, the film took in a gross income of $19,492 in its opening weekend. \"Lolita\" grossed $1,147,784 domestically, against an estimated $62 million budget.\n\nRotten Tomatoes gave the film an approval rating of 68% based on 25 reviews. Metacritic reports an average score of 46 out of 100 based on 17 critics, indicating \"mixed or average reviews\".\n\nJames Berardinelli praised the performances of the two leads, Irons and Swain, but he considered Griffith's performance weak, \"stiff and unconvincing\"; he considered the film better when she no longer appeared in it and concluded: \"\"Lolita\" is not a sex film; it's about characters, relationships, and the consequences of imprudent actions. And those who seek to brand the picture as immoral have missed the point. Both Humbert and Lolita are eventually destroyed—what could be more moral? The only real controversy I can see surrounding this film is why there was ever a controversy in the first place.\"\n\nThe film was \"The New York Times\" \"Critics Pick\" on July 31, 1998, with its critic Caryn James saying, \"Rich beyond what anyone could have expected, the film repays repeated viewings...it turns Humbert's madness into art.\" Writer/director James Toback lists it in his picks for the 10 finest films ever made, but he rates the original film higher.\n\nCommenting on differences between the novel and the film, Charles Taylor, in \"Salon\", observes that \"[f]or all of their vaunted (and, it turns out, false) fidelity to Nabokov, Lyne and Schiff have made a pretty, gauzy \"Lolita\" that replaces the book's cruelty and comedy with manufactured lyricism and mopey romanticism\". Extending Taylor's observation, Keith Phipps concludes: \"Lyne doesn't seem to get the novel, failing to incorporate any of Nabokov's black comedy—which is to say, \"Lolita\"'s heart and soul\".\n\nThe film's soundtrack was composed by Ennio Morricone and released on the Music Box Records label. As the composer himself described the project: \"With my music, I only had to follow on a high level the director's intentions to make \"Lolita\" a story of sincere and reciprocal love, even within the limits of the purity and malicious naiveté of its young subject.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1988808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988808", "title": "Frank Brimsek", "text": "Frank Brimsek\n\nFrancis Charles \"Mr. Zero\" Brimsek (September 26, 1915 – November 11, 1998) was an American professional ice hockey goaltender who played ten seasons in the National Hockey League (NHL) for the Boston Bruins and Chicago Black Hawks. He won the Calder Memorial Trophy as a rookie, and the Vezina Trophy twice, and he was named to the NHL All-Star Team eight times (twice on the First Team and six times on the Second Team). He was also a member of two Stanley Cup championships (1939 and 1941). At the time of his retirement in 1950, he held the records for most wins and shutouts recorded by an American goaltender; these records stood for 54 years and 61 years respectively. In 1966, he was inducted into the Hockey Hall of Fame, the first American goalie to be inducted; and in 1973, he was part of the inaugural class of the United States Hockey Hall of Fame. In 1998, Brimsek was ranked number 67 on \"The Hockey News\"' list of the 100 Greatest Hockey Players, the highest ranked American goaltender.\n\nBrimsek was born in the hockey hotbed of Eveleth, Minnesota on September 26, 1915. His parents were of Slovene descent. The town of Eveleth produced at that time four other hockey players who would play in the National Hockey League (NHL): Mike Karakas, Sam LoPresti, Al Suomi and John Mariucci. Brimsek and Karakas played on the same baseball team in high school. Brimsek first started playing hockey when his brother, John, the second-string goalie on the Eveleth High School team, switched to defense, and Frank replaced him in the net. Soon, Brimsek found himself spending most of his spare time playing hockey. Unlike most of his friends who wanted to be high-scoring forwards, Brimsek never showed any desire to play any other position than goalie. Just before every winter, Brimsek and his friends would get on a dry lot and they would practice shooting at him. After graduating from high school, Brimsek played for the St. Cloud State Teachers College hockey team. He also graduated from college with a machine shop student's degree.\n\nIn the fall of 1934, Brimsek was invited to the Detroit Red Wings training camp for a shot at playing in the National Hockey League (NHL). Jack Adams, the Red Wings' coach and manager, made a bad impression on Brimsek, who felt that Adams had a habit of favoritism. This led him to try out for another professional team, the Baltimore Orioles of the Eastern Amateur Hockey League (EAHL). Unfortunately, the Orioles cut him, and Brimsek hitchhiked back to Eveleth. On his way back home, he had a chance meeting with the owner of the Pittsburgh Yellow Jackets, John H. Harris. The Yellow Jackets were in need of a goaltender and Harris signed Brimsek to the team. Brimsek started playing for the Yellow Jackets in sixteen exhibition games in 1934–35; he won fourteen of them.\n\nThe next season, the Yellow Jackets joined the EAHL. Brimsek finished with twenty wins and eight shutouts, the most by any goalie in the league. He was named to the league's Second All-Star Team and awarded the George L. Davis Trophy for the lowest goals against average (GAA). Impressed by Brimsek, Harris wanted to protect his interests in the goalie so he had the Red Wings put Brimsek on their protected list. Harris then tried to get the Red Wings to call Brimsek up. However, the Red Wings wanted Brimsek to first play one year for their amateur team in Pontiac, but Brimsek turned down the offer, choosing to stay with the Yellow Jackets instead. Harris then shopped Brimsek around the NHL until he was accepted by the Boston Bruins in October 1937. The Bruins were already well established in net with future hall-of-famer Tiny Thompson, so Brimsek was assigned to the Providence Reds of the International-American Hockey League (IAHL) for the 1937–38 season. In his only full season with the Reds, Brimsek helped his team win the Calder Cup and he was named to the league's First All-Star Team.\n\nBrimsek started the 1938–39 season with the Reds, but he would not stay long with them. During an NHL exhibition game, Thompson got injured and it was unlikely that he would recuperate in time for the beginning of the regular season, so the Bruins called up Brimsek. In his NHL debut, Brimsek helped his new team defeat the Toronto Maple Leafs 3–2. He played another game, a 4–1 victory against the Red Wings, before being sent back down to the Reds after Thompson recovered. Art Ross, the Bruins' coach and general manager, had seen enough of Brimsek to consider promoting Brimsek to starting goalie with the Bruins. Thompson was traded to the Detroit Red Wings for goaltender Normie Smith and $15,000.00 U.S. cash on November 16, 1938, and Ross brought Brimsek back from Providence. This did not sit well with Bruins fans as Thompson was a favorite and had won the Vezina Trophy.\n\nOn December 1, 1938, in Brimsek's first game as the starting goalie, his team fell 2–0 to the Montreal Canadiens in Montreal. On that same night, Thompson won his first game with the Red Wings. Also, Brimsek wore red hockey pants instead of the team's colors, and he was wearing Thompson's former jersey number 1. These details did not improve his image with the fans. Brimsek, fared better in the next game as he shut out the Chicago Black Hawks. After shutting out his opponents for the second straight game, the fans warmed up to him immediately. Brimsek went on to earn six shutouts in his first seven games, and the fans and the media began to call him \"Mr. Zero\". During that seven game span, he also set the NHL record for the longest shutout streak, 231 minutes and 54 seconds. At the end of the regular season, Brimsek had backstopped the Bruins to a first-place finish in the league, and he recorded the most wins (33), the most shutouts (10) and the lowest GAA (1.56) in the league. In the playoffs, Brimsek and his team defeated the New York Rangers in the semi-finals and the Maple Leafs in the 1939 Stanley Cup Finals. He also won the Calder Memorial Trophy and the Vezina Trophy, and he was named to the NHL First All-Star Team.\n\nIn 1939-40, Brimsek finished first in the league in wins again and he was named to the NHL Second All-Star Team. This was the first of six berths on the Second All-Star Team. The Bruins were eliminated in the playoffs by the New York Rangers in the semi-finals. In 1940–41, Brimsek backstopped the Bruins to their third consecutive first-place finish in the league. The Bruins defeated the Red Wings in the 1941 Stanley Cup Finals four games to none, and Brimsek had his second Stanley Cup victory. For his efforts during the regular season, Brimsek was named to the NHL Second All-Star Team for the second year in a row. Continuing on the previous season's success, Brimsek won the Vezina Trophy and was named to the NHL First All-Star Team for the second time in his career. However, Brimsek's team could not replicate their playoff success as they were eliminated by the Red Wings in the semi-finals.\n\nUpon the outbreak of World War II, three of the Bruins' best forwards – center Milt Schmidt, left wing Woody Dumart, and right winger Bobby Bauer – joined the Royal Canadian Air Force midway through the 1941–42 season. Despite their absence, the Bruins made it to the Stanley Cup Finals the next season. In the finals, they were defeated by the Red Wings four games to none. Due to his play in the regular season, Brimsek was again named to the NHL Second All-Star Team. However, it was popular opinion at the time that Brimsek deserved the spot on the First All-Star Team over Johnny Mowers, including Mowers' own coach and general manager, Jack Adams.\n\nThe next season, Brimsek decided to help the war effort by joining the United States Coast Guard. During his time with the Coast Guard, he played with the Coast Guard Cutters hockey team in Curtis Bay, Maryland, and later served in the South Pacific. While in the Coast Guard, he achieved the rank Motor Machinists Mate 2nd Class Petty Officer. After the war ended, Brimsek returned to the Bruins in time for the 1945–46 season. However, Brimsek was not as sharp as he was before due to having not played any professional hockey for two years. In his first season back, Brimsek guided the Bruins to the finals against the Montreal Canadiens. The Bruins were defeated in five games, three of which went to overtime. Brimsek was applauded for his performance in the playoffs, compensating for his team's weak defence. This marked Brimsek's fourth appearance in the finals and it would be his last. Brimsek was also named to the NHL Second All-Star Team for the fifth time in his career.\n\nBrimsek remained with the Bruins for three more seasons. He was named to the NHL Second All-Star team twice more and was selected to play in the inaugural NHL All-Star Game in 1947. The Bruins made the playoffs all three seasons but were eliminated in the semi-finals every time. Brimsek was also a finalist for the Hart Trophy in 1947–48, finishing behind Buddy O'Connor of the Rangers. Personal problems plagued Brimsek during his final years in Boston. His ten-month-old son had died in January 1949, and his coach and longtime teammate, Dit Clapper, had resigned from his coaching duties. It did not also help that the Boston crowd would occasionally boo Brimsek for his play. After the 1948–49 season, Brimsek requested a trade from Boston to Chicago in order to be closer to home, and to the new blueprint business he had started there. Boston granted his request and he was traded to the Chicago Black Hawks in exchange for cash.\n\nBrimsek's 32 playoff wins for Boston ranks him fourth in team history as of 2019.\n\nBrimsek played one season with the Black Hawks, recording 22 wins, 38 losses and 10 ties in 70 games. The Hawks finished last in the standings. It was the only season when Brimsek's team did not make the playoffs. He retired at the conclusion of the season.\n\nBrimsek played a stand-up style of goaltending, in which a goalie usually stays on his feet instead of dropping down on his knees to make a save. Brimsek is also remembered for having a quick catching hand and for \"taking the feet out\" of opposing players that were being a nuisance in front of his net. After retiring, Brimsek returned to Minnesota and worked as a railroad engineer. Even after his playing days, Brimsek regularly received fan mail. In 1966, he was inducted into the Hockey Hall of Fame, the first American-born goalie to be so honoured, and in 1973 he was an inaugural inductee of the United States Hockey Hall of Fame. Brimsek died on November 11, 1998 in Virginia, Minnesota, leaving behind his wife, Peggy, his two daughters, Chris and Karen, and his five grandchildren.\n\nIn 1998, Brimsek was ranked number 67 on \"The Hockey News\"' list of the 100 Greatest Hockey Players, and was the highest ranked American goaltender. An annual award, to the top high school goaltender in Minnesota, is given in Brimsek's honor. Brimsek's 252 wins and 40 shutouts each stood for a long time as the most ever recorded by an American netminder. His wins record was finally broken by Tom Barrasso on February 15, 1994 and his shutouts record has only been equaled by John Vanbiesbrouck and Jonathan Quick. Brimsek's 35 shutouts with Boston places him third on that team's career list behind only Tiny Thompson and Tuukka Rask. . Also, Brimsek's eight berths on the NHL All-Star Team are the second most among goalies in history, behind only Glenn Hall with ten.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1988811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988811", "title": "Tarn Taran Sahib", "text": "Tarn Taran Sahib\n\nTarn Taran Sahib is a town in the Majha region of the state of Punjab, in northern India. It is the district headquarters and hosts the municipal council of Tarn Taran district. Gurdwara Sri Tarn Taran Sahib, a prominent Sikh shrine is located in the central part of the city.\n\nTarn Taran Sahib was founded by the Fifth Sikh Guru, Shri Guru Arjan Dev Ji (1563–1606).He was so enchanted by its natural beauty that he established a town and named it Tarn Taran, the boat to cross the ocean of exsistance and to enjoy the blessings of almighty God. He laid the foundation of Sri Tarn Taran Sahib Temple.\nTarn Taran Sahib was part of the Bhangi Sikh Dynasty ruled by a powerful Sikh family of the Dhillon Clan from 1716 to 1810.\n\nIn 1947, the year of the Partition of India and the Partition of Punjab, Tarn Taran was the only \"tehsil\" (district) in Punjab, along with Shiekhupura, Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Hoshiapur, Kapurthala, Patti, Amritsar, Lyallpur, and Patiala, with a majority Sikh population. The city was a center of the Sikh insurgency during the 1980s and early 1990s. The main occupation in this area is agriculture and agroindustry, with very few other industries.\n\nTarn Taran district was formed in 2006. The declaration to this effect was made by Captain Amarinder Singh,Chief Minister of Punjab, during the celebrations marking the martyrdom day of Sri Guru Arjan Dev Ji. With this, it became the 19th district of Punjab.\n\nMaharaja Ranjit Singh had the steps on the two sides of the sarovar, formerly left unfinished by Budh Singh and Jassa Singh Ahluwalia, completed and its circumambulatory passage paved. The Darbar Sahib was also reconstructed. Maharaja Ranjit Singh and his grandson, Kanvar Nau Nihal Singh, donated large quantities of gold to have the exterior plated with the metal, but the work made little progress in the troubled times that followed Ranjit Singh's death. It was in the last quarter of the nineteenth century that part of the exterior was covered with goldleaf by Sant Sham Singh, of Amritsar. Only one of the four towers planned by Kanvar Nau Nihal Singh for the four corners of the tank was erected during this time. Under Maharaja Ranjit Singh's orders, the town of Tarn Taran was enclosed by a wall. A few other shrines, such as the Mahji Sahib, the Akal Bunga and the Guru ka Khuh, were developed and several bungas added.\n\nAfter the annexation of the Punjab to the British dominions, the management of the shrines at Tarn Taran, along with those at Amritsar, was entrusted to a \"sarbarah\", or manager, appointed by the deputy commissioner of Amritsar. The role of the manager was, however, confined to general supervision, the priests being autonomous in the conduct of religious affairs. They divided the offerings among themselves and gradually appropriated most of the lands endowed to the Darbar Sahib during Sikh rule. They neglected their religious duties and cared little for the sanctity of the holy shrines and the sarovar. The traditional monthly congregation on every \"amavasya\" day, the last day of the dark half of the month, was reduced to a small carnival. Reforms introduced by the Singh Sabha, Tarn Taran, established in 1885, were disapproved and resisted by the clergy. Efforts of the Khalsa Diwan Majha and the Central Majha Khalsa Diwan to cleanse the administration met with only partial successl\n\nAs the Gurdwara reform movement got under way, the control of the sacred shrines passed to a representative body of the Sikhs, the Shiromam Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee, on 27 January 1921. A leper asylum established by Guru Arjan Dev (it was thought that minerals in the water were helpful in treating Leprosy), but completely ignored by the clergy after the abrogation of Sikh sovereignty, was taken over in 1858 by Christian missionaries.\n\n Indian census,Sikhism(75.7%), followed by Hindus(23%) Tarn Taran Sahib had a population of 66, 847. Males constituted 52.3% of the population, and females 47.7%. Tarn Taran has an average literacy rate of 79.33%, higher than the state average of 75.84%: male literacy was 82.39%, and female literacy was 76%. In Tarn Taran Sahib, 11.2% of the population was under 6 years of age and 15% is elderly. 3% of its residents have settled abroad.\n\nThe city has many historical gurdwaras which include: Darbar Sahib Sri Guru Arjan Dev Ji, Gurdwara Guru Ka Khuh (Gurdwara of the Guru's Well), Gurdwara Bibi Bhani Da Khuh, Gurdwara Takkar Sahib, Gurdwara Lakeer Sahib, Gurudwara Baba Garja Singh Baba Bota Singh, Gurdwara Jhulna Mahal, and Lalpur(Tapeana Sahib).\n\nThe main religious hub at Tarn Taran Sahib is Sri Darbar Sahib Tarn Taran, built by Sri Guru Arjan Dev Ji. The Gurdwara Sri Darbar Sahib Tarn Taran has the largest \"sarovar\" (holy tank) in the world.\n\nGurdwara Darbar Sahib (Tarn Taran) - This gurdwara is an elegant, three-storeyed structure at the southeastern corner of the sarovar. Approached through a double-storeyed arched gateway, it stands in the middle of a marble-floored platform. The upper portion of the edifice is covered with glittering gold-plated sheets. The lotus dome, damaged in an earthquake (4 April 1905) and subsequently reconstructed, has an ornamental gold pinnacle with an umbrella-shaped gold finial. Exquisitely executed stucco work in intricate designs, inset with reflecting glass pieces, decorate the interior walls and the ceiling. The Guru Granth Sahib is seated on a platform under an elongated dome covered with goldplated metal sheets. This throne was an offering from Kanvar Nau Nihal Singh. A relay recital of Kirtan goes on from early morning until late in the evening.\n\nHar Ki Pauri -\nA flight of marbled steps behind the Darbar Sahib descending into the sacred pool, marks the spot where, according to tradition, Guru Arjan made the first cut as the digging started in 1590. Pilgrims go down these steps to take Charanamrit or palmsful of holy water to sip.\n\nThe Sarovar -\nOne of the largest of the Sikh holy tanks (ponds), it is an approximate rectangle in shape. Its northern and southern sides are , respectively, and eastern and western sides , respectively. The sarovar was originally fed by rain water that flowed in from the surrounding lands. In 1833, Maharaja Raghubir Singh of Jmd had a water channel dug, connecting the tank with the Lower Kasur Branch of the Upper Ban Doab Canal at Rasulpur watermills, to the southeast. The channel was cemented and covered in 1927/28 by Sant Gurmukh Singh and Sant Sadhu Singh. They also supervised karseva, i.e. complete desilting of the tank through voluntary service, in 1931. The operation was repeated in 1970 under Sant Jivan Singh. Most of the bungas around the sarovar have now been demolished and a verandah constructed instead along the periphery. The name Tarn Taran, since appropriated by the town itself, originally belonged to the sarovar, so called by Guru Arjan. Literally it means, \"the boat that takes one across (the ocean of existence)\". (Tarana in Sanskrit is a raft or a boat). According to Sikh tradition, the water of the old pond was found to possess medicinal properties, especially efficacious for curing leprosy. For this reason the sarovar was known as Dukh Nivaran, the eradicator of affliction. AKAL BUNGA, a four storeyed building near the Nishan Sahib (Sikh flagpole), was constructed in 1841 by Kanvar Nau Nihal Singh. Maharaja Sher Singh provided the finishing touches. The Guru Granth Sahib, \"after a procession around the sarovar amid\" chanting of hymns in the late evening, is, brought here for the night's rest. Manji Sahib, a small domed shrine in the eastern part of the circumambulatory pavement, marks the spot from where Guru Arjan supervised the excavation of the sarovar. A divan hall, a vast pavilion of reinforced concrete, has now been raised close to it.\n\nThe Tower -\nThe only completed column of the four planned by Kanvar Nau Nihal Singh, for the beautification of the sarovar at Tarn Taran, stands at the northeastern corner. The three-storeyed tower, high, was erected during the Kanvar's lifetime. The dome on top of it was added later.\n\nGurdwara Lakeer Sahib is situated at the place where a line on the ground was marked by Baba Deep Singh Ji, before entering into war against the Mughal Empire in 1757. Gurudwara Bibi Bhani da Khuh, situated near Sri Darbar Sahib Tarn Taran, is named after Bibi Bhani Ji. She was the daughter of Guru Amar Das, the wife of Guru Ram Das, and the mother of Guru Arjan Dev Ji. This religio-historic \"khuh\" (well) was dug by Guru Arjan Dev Ji, in memory of his mother, at the place where she used to serve food, water, and medicine to the needy and visiting pilgrims. Locals preserved the place with the help of Dera Kar Sewa Tarn Taran, and constructed a gurdwara.\n\nGurdwara Guru Ka Khuh is also situated in Tarn Taran City. This well belonged to Guru Arjan Dev Ji, and a historic gurdwara has been built at this place.\n\nOther gurdwaras in the District of Tarn Taran are at Goindwal Sahib, namely Gurdwara Baoli Sahib, at Khadoor Sahib, at Baba Buddha Sahib (Bir Sāhib) and those at Amritsar. Goindwal Sahib Goindwal Sahib, situated along the River Beas, is from Tarn Taran Sahib. It is an important center of Sikhism, as Guru Arjan Dev ji was born there.\n\nTarn Taran has many smaller-scale to large-scale industries:\n\n\nThe central government has plans for setting up a special economic zone (SEZ) at Sri Goindwal Sahib.\n\nThe nearest airport is Amritsar International Airport. At a distance of , direct International flights are available to Dubai, Singapore, Kuala Lumpur, Doha, Tashkent and Ashgabat. Domestic connections are available to Delhi, Mumbai, Srinagar and Jammu.\n\nTarn Taran is well-connected with nearby cities and villages with the rail network.\n\nTarn Taran station is on the way on the Amritsar-to-Khemkaran line.\n\nA rail line from Tarn Taran sahib to Goindwal Sahib has been recently constructed and a new project of rail from Patti to Ferozpur is under construction.\n\nTarn Taran is connected by roads to many other locations: \n\nTarn Taran is located on the historic Royal Highway (Sher Shah Suri Marg) of the Mugal Empire from Delhi to Lahore. NH-15 (National Highway No. 15) also passes through Tarn Taran. It has a fast bus service to Amritsar, with a daily route of about 450 buses daily.\n\nAC coach buses of many transports have routes of Tarn Taran, including PUNBUS, PRTC, RAJ, and NEW DEEP.\n\nDaily bus services run to and from New Delhi, Chandigarh, Patiala, Bikaner, Bathinda, Ferozpur, Ludhiana, and Jalandhar.\n\nThere is weekly bus service to Ponta Sahib.\n\n1 Maharaja Ranjit Singh Public School\n2 Sri Guru Harkrishan Public School\n3 St. Francis Convent School\n4 Mamta Niketan Convent School\n5 St. Thomas Convent School\n6 Guru Arjun Dev Khalsa School\n7 Punjab Children Academy\n8 Cupid's School\n9 Mata Ganga Girls School\n10 SD Sen Sec Public School\n11 Sant Singh Sukha Singh Public School\n12 SSS Public School\n13 Arya Girls School\n14 Govt. Sen Sec School\n15 Police DAV Public School\n16 Guru Nanak Dev Academy\n17.Majha public sr.sec.school.\n18. SD Girls High School\n19 Universal Academy\n20 s. b.d.s sen sec school patti\n21 shri mahavir jain model high school patti\n22 S.B.B.S Sen Sec School Rasulpur Tarn Taran\n23 Baba Deep singh public school\n\n1 Guru Arjun Dev Khalsa College\n2 Sewa Devi College\n3 Mata Ganga College for women\n4 Majha College for women\n5 Kalian Homeopathic College\n6 Mai Bhago Institute of Nursing\n7 Shiv Shankar Institute of Engg and Tech (Patti)\n8 Shaheed Bhagat Singh Pharmacy (Patti)\n9 Shaheed Bhagat Singh Polytechnic College\n10 Shaheed Bhagat Singh B.Ed College\n11 International School of Nursing\n12. Goutam college Tarn Taran\n13 Guru Gobind Singh Khalsa College Sarhali\n\nTarn Taran is a Municipal Council city in district of Tarn Taran, Punjab. The Tarn Taran\nNo of Distt Wards 19 Which Has Been Included City and Some Of Neae Area's.\n\nTarn Taran Municipal Council has total administration over 12,874 houses to which it supplies basic amenities like water and sewerage. It is also authorize to build roads within Municipal Council limits and impose taxes on properties coming under its jurisdiction.\n\nThe city has adequate health care system The city has one Civil (public) hospital besides six private hospitals. Tarn Taran has a largest 350 Bedded fully computerized Charitable Hospital viz. Guru Nanak Dev Super-speciality Hospital, run under 'Baba Jiwan Singh Baba Dalip Singh Educational Trust'(regd.). Baba Jagtar Singh Kar Sewa Wale is the Chairman. \nThe Hospital has got all core medical facilities with state of art Radiology and Pathology Departments.\n\nTarn Taran Sahib is situated near the Amritsar district. It sends one elected representative to the Lok Sabha (the Indian parliament), one member to the State Legislative Assembly and two members to Shiromani Gurdwara Parbhandhak Committee (SGPC) at Amritsar. It is the headquarters of Tarn Taran district. It is a municipal council with 19 wards. The district borders Doaba, Malwa Belt and Pakistan.\n\nVisitor attractions in and around Tarn Taran Sahib include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1988818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988818", "title": "Billy Burch", "text": "Billy Burch\n\nHarry Wilfred Burch (November 20, 1900 – November 30, 1950) was an American-born, Canadian professional ice hockey forward who played in the National Hockey League (NHL) for the Hamilton Tigers, New York Americans, Chicago Black Hawks, and Boston Bruins. Born in Yonkers, New York, Burch grew up in Toronto and scored 42 goals in 12 Memorial Cup playoff games to lead the Toronto Canoe Club Paddlers to the 1920 Canadian junior championship.\n\nBurch won the Hart Trophy as the NHL's most valuable player in 1924–25. In that same season, he joined his teammates in precipitating the first player's strike in NHL history and which led to the dissolution of the Hamilton franchise. Transferring to the newly formed New York franchise, Burch served as the team's captain, scored the first goal in Americans' history in 1925 and won the Lady Byng Trophy in 1926–27 as the NHL's most gentlemanly player. He was inducted into the Hockey Hall of Fame in 1974.\n\nBurch was born on November 20, 1900, in Yonkers, New York, but moved to Toronto at a young age and grew up in the Ontario capital as a multi-sport athlete playing lacrosse, football and hockey. In football, Burch played quarterback for the Toronto Central YMCA team that won the provincial junior championship in 1920. That same year was teammate of Lionel Conacher and Roy Worters with the Toronto Canoe Club Paddlers hockey team which won the 1920 Memorial Cup as the Dominion champions of Canada. Burch led all players in the Memorial Cup playoffs with 42 goals, 12 assists and 54 points in 12 games. He spent the following two seasons with the Toronto Aura Lee team in the Ontario Hockey Association.\n\nAfter beginning the 1922–23 season with the New Haven Westminsters in the United States Amateur Hockey Association, Burch was signed to a contract by the Hamilton Tigers on January 30, 1923. He joined a Tigers team that was last in the four-team NHL, but which improved as he did. After scoring six goals in ten games to finish that season, Burch finished in a tie for third in NHL scoring in 1923–24 with 22 points. The Tigers finished 1924–25 as the regular season champions with a record, and Burch was voted the winner of the Hart Trophy as the league's most valuable player following a 20-goal regular season.\n\nThe NHL had expanded by two teams that season and the schedule increased from 24 to 30 games, however Burch and his teammates were not paid any extra compensation by the Tigers. In protest, the players demanded that the team and league pay each individual $200 for the additional regular season and playoff games, or they would refuse to play the NHL championship series. After defying an order by league president Frank Calder to play, the team was disqualified and the Montreal Canadiens, who won the semi-final series, were declared league champions. The Tigers' actions constituted the first player's strike in NHL history. The Tigers franchise was sold and relocated for the 1925–26 season.\n\nThe franchise became the New York Americans, and Burch was named the team's captain, a position he would hold until 1932. The team played up his New York birth; he was dubbed both \"Yonkers Billy Burch\" and \"the Babe Ruth of hockey\". Burch scored the first goal in Americans' franchise history on December 2, 1925, in a 2–1 victory over the Pittsburgh Pirates, and finished the season eighth in league scoring with 25 points. He again finished eighth in scoring, with 27 points, in 1926–27, and was voted the winner of the Lady Byng Trophy, awarded for his \"effectiveness and a true sporting spirit\".\n\nFollowing a last-place finish in the Canadian Division, the Americans revamped their roster for the 1928–29 season. Of the team's regulars the past season, only Burch and Lionel Conacher were retained. Burch scored 11 goals and 16 points for New York and played the only two playoff games of his NHL career after the team improved to a second-place finish. He scored only 10 points in 1929–30 before improving to 22 points in each of the following two campaigns. Approaching the end of his career, Burch was sold by New York to the Boston Bruins prior to the 1932–33 season. However, he did not see much playing time in Boston in the first part of the season and on January 17, 1933, was traded to the Chicago Black Hawks in exchange for Vic Ripley. Burch suffered a broken leg at the end of the season with spelled the end of his playing career. Burch was the last active NHL player who had played with the Hamilton Tigers. \n\nBurch retired to Toronto, where he died in 1950. \"Montreal Gazette\" sportswriter Tommy Shields praised Burch as a quality NHL player: \"He broke in and played in the days when the going was rough and a player had to be good to stick. If you didn't make it, there was no going back to the amateur ranks. Billy turned pro and never looked back. He was a major leaguer all the way.\" He was posthumously inducted into the Hockey Hall of Fame in 1974.\n"}
{"id": "1988825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988825", "title": "Central Park (Ottawa)", "text": "Central Park (Ottawa)\n\nCentral Park is a park in The Glebe neighbourhood in central Ottawa, Ontario, Canada.\n\nThe park has two sections, Central Park East and West divided by Bank Street. To the southeast of the park is the landscaped area around Patterson Creek creating a continued stretch of greenery all the way to the Rideau Canal. Originally, the entire area of the park was that area around Patterson Creek. In the 1890s, work began on landscaping the area. Clemow Avenue was constructed, blocking the creek and creating the open space of the park. The work on the park was completed in 1907. In the 1960s, the city proposed extending Carling Avenue through the park to the canal. This caused an outcry in the community and led to the creation of the Glebe Community Association. Eventually, the plans were shelved.\n"}
{"id": "1988828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988828", "title": "Come Sail Away", "text": "Come Sail Away\n\n\"Come Sail Away\" is a song by American progressive rock group Styx, written and sung by primary singer and songwriter Dennis DeYoung and featured on the band's seventh album \"The Grand Illusion\" (1977). Upon its release as the lead single from the album, \"Come Sail Away\" peaked at #8 in January 1978 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100, and helped \"The Grand Illusion\" achieve multi-platinum sales in 1978. It is one of the biggest hits of Styx's career.\n\nLyrically, the song uses sailing as a metaphor to achieve one's dreams. The lyrics touch on nostalgia of \"childhood friends,\" escapism, and a religious thematic symbolized by \"a gathering of angels\" singing \"a song of hope.\" The ending lyrics explain a transformation from a sailing ship into a starship, by narrating that \"they climbed aboard their starship and headed for the skies\" which also imply biblical verses from Ezekiel (1:1-28).\n\nHowever, DeYoung revealed on \"In the Studio with Redbeard\" (which devoted an entire episode to the making of \"The Grand Illusion\"), that he was depressed when he wrote the track after Styx's first two A&M offerings, \"Equinox\" and \"Crystal Ball\", sold fewer units than expected after the success of the single \"Lady\".\n\nMusically, \"Come Sail Away\" combines a plaintive, ballad-like opening section (including piano and synthesizer interludes) with a bombastic, guitar-heavy second half. In the middle of the second half of the album version is a minute-long synthesizer-heavy instrumental break.\n\n\nIn the United States, \"Come Sail Away\" reached #8 on \"Billboard\" and spent two weeks at #9 on \"Cash Box\". The song also peaked at #9 in Canada. On superstation WLS-AM in their home city of Chicago, the song spent two weeks at #3 and was ranked at #26 for the year.\n\nAlthough, the song hit its chart peak in 1978, Come Sail Away has had tremendous longevity in popular culture. It was arguably as popular in the 1980s (and in subsequent decades) as it was when released in the late 1970s.\n\nThe song appears on trailers and TV spots for the films \"\", \"Treasure Planet\", \"The Wild\", \"Moana\", and \"Big Daddy\". \n\nIn the 2018 Netflix release \"Like Father\" the song is the choice of the main characters Rachel and Harry for their winning performance in the cruise karaoke championship.\n\nIn the 2019 film, \"Stuber\", the song is used during an action sequence later on in the film. It is referenced earlier in the film as well.\n\nThe song appears as a plot point to the \"South Park\" episode \"Cartman's Mom Is Still a Dirty Slut\". If Cartman hears any portion of the song, he feels a compulsion to sing the rest of it. On \"\", he does a cover of the song.\n\nIt scored the end of the pilot episode of \"Freaks and Geeks\", in which the leading character finally gets the courage to ask a popular girl to slow dance. Though she agrees, the guitar-heavy second half kicks in before they can start dancing as originally intended.\n\nA version of the song performed by Aimee Mann is used in the TV show \"Community\" in the Season 5 episode, \"Geothermal Escapism,\" for the nautical departure of Donald Glover's Troy Barnes. In the first season, he'd confessed to crying upon hearing the original version of the song.\n\nThe song also appears in \"ER\"'s season 7, episode 19 (\"Sailing Away\"), where Doctor Greene sings along.\n\nIn \"Generation Kill\" several of the Marines sing the chorus as they travel.\n\nThe song is parodied as \"Please Say You'll Stay\" in the \"Fish Hooks\" episode \"Labor of Love\".\n\nThe song was in \"The Goldbergs\" season 1, episode 2 (\"Daddy Daughter Day\"). The song again appears in season 5, episode 4 (“Revenge ‘o the Nerds”), sung by Erica Goldberg at a Revenge of the Nerds-style musical finale. \n\nThe song is performed by the New Directions on an episode of the hit television show \"Glee\" (Season 6, Episode 11).\n\nThe song is performed as part of a Broadway musical in \"Mozart in the Jungle\"'s first episode. Hailey plays the oboe section of the piece along with Cynthia at the cello. (Season 1, Episode 1)\n\nIn Modern Family’s episode Spring-a-Ding-Fling, a parody of the song is sang by realtor Phil Dunphy played by comedian Ty Burrell.\n\nThe song is performed by \"Dagger\" actress, Olivia Holt, in the season one finale of Cloak & Dagger (episode 10).\n\nThe song was used in the homecoming dance scene of \"The Virgin Suicides\".\n\nMe First and the Gimme Gimmes released a cover on their album \"Ruin Jonny's Bar Mitzvah\", which was featured in commercials for season 3 off the Discovery Channel's Deadliest Catch in 2005.\n\nPatty Pravo covered it as \"Dai Sali Su\" on her 1978 album \"Miss Italia\".\n\nIn 2016 the song was ranked at number 72 by internet radio station WDDF Radio in their top 76 of the 1970s countdown.\n\n"}
{"id": "1988830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988830", "title": "Joseph Thomson (explorer)", "text": "Joseph Thomson (explorer)\n\nJoseph Thomson (14 February 1858 – 2 August 1895) was a Scottish geologist and explorer who played an important part in the Scramble for Africa. Thomson's gazelle and Thomson's Falls, Nyahururu are named after him. Excelling as an explorer rather than an exact scientist, he avoided confrontations among his porters or with indigenous peoples, neither killing any native nor losing any of his men to violence. His motto is often quoted to be \"\"He who goes gently, goes safely; he who goes safely, goes far.\"\"\n\nBorn in Penpont, Dumfriesshire, he was apprenticed into his father's stone-masonry and quarrying business. He developed a keen amateur interest in geology and botany, which eventually led to his formal education at the University of Edinburgh, studying under Archibald Geikie and Thomas Henry Huxley.\n\nOn graduating in 1878, he was appointed geologist and naturalist to Alexander Keith Johnston's Royal Geographical Society expedition to establish a route from Dar es Salaam to Lake Nyasa and Lake Tanganyika. Johnston died during the trip and Thomson was left to take the leadership role for the expedition. Thomson successfully led the expedition over k in 14 months, collecting many specimens and recording many observations. Part of his crew included James Chuma, who also worked closely and assisted the Scottish explorer David Livingstone. \n\nIn 1883, he embarked on another Royal Geographical Society expedition, this time to explore a route from the eastern coast of Africa to the northern shores of Lake Victoria. British Empire traders wanted a route that would avoid potentially hostile Maasai and German traders who were competing in the area. The expedition set out a few months behind the rival German expedition of Gustav A. Fischer. Thomson's leadership was again a success, demonstrating the feasibility of the route and making many important biological, geological, and ethnographic observations, though Thomson's attempt to climb Mount Kilimanjaro in a day failed. However, on the return journey, Thomson was gored by a buffalo and subsequently suffered from malaria and dysentery.\n\nHe recovered in time to give an account of his experiences at a meeting in November 1884 of the Royal Geographical Society, which awarded him their Founder's Gold Medal the following year. His book \"Through Masai Land\" followed in January 1885 and was a best seller. One of the first to read it was the young Henry Rider Haggard. His imagination fired by Thomson's expedition, Haggard promptly wrote a book of his own, \"King Solomon's Mines\". Haggard also wrote other well received novels eg \"She\", one of a series succeeding King Solomon's Mines. The novel expands on further adventures of the main characters in King Solomon's Mines. When Thompson read that book (\"She\"), he felt it didnt represent the lands where it was based on well, Africa, and put into writing a new novel based on his experiences in the East African region eg denoted by his book Through Masailand. He called this novel \"Ulu: an African Romance\". It was important enough to demand a sequel which he wrote with Ms E. Harrison Smith as \"Ulu :an African Romance volume II\"\n\nIn 1885, Thomson was employed by the National African Company to forestall and hinder German influence in the vicinity of the Niger River, but he returned the following year to the UK to lecture, disillusioned that no further opportunities existed for large-scale exploration in the continent. He became discontented with his life in the UK and struggled to identify new opportunities for exploration. A modest expedition to the Atlas Mountains of Morocco was marred by trouble with porters and local political difficulties. He spent a month in 1889 travelling in central Europe with budding author J. M. Barrie.\n\nIn 1890, Cecil Rhodes employed Thomson to explore north of the Zambezi, conclude treaties and gain mining concessions from tribal chiefs on behalf of his British South Africa Company, which had been chartered by the British government to claim the territory known as Zambezia (later Rhodesia, modern day Zimbabwe and Zambia) as far north as the African Great Lakes. Though he made a sequence of important treaties on the trip, a smallpox epidemic in the intervening country stopped him from achieving the ultimate goal, which was to meet Alfred Sharpe at the court of Msiri, King of Katanga, and to assist Sharpe in incorporating the mineral-rich country into Zambezia by treaty. Thomson's role was to have brought supplies of cloth, gunpowder, and other gifts with which to impress Msiri. Without these, Sharpe was rebuffed, and a year later, the Stairs Expedition led by Captain William Stairs, believing itself to be in a race with another attempt by Thomson to reach Katanga, killed Msiri and took Katanga for King Leopold II of Belgium. Unknown to the Stairs Expedition, by this time Thomson had been instructed by the British government not to go.\n\nThomson's health had deteriorated because of cystitis, schistosomiasis, and pyelonephritis. In 1892, he contracted pneumonia and, seeking the right climate in which to recuperate, spent time in England, South Africa, Italy, and France. He died in London in 1895, at the age of 37.\n\nTaxa named in honour of Joseph Thomson include:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1988832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988832", "title": "Manuel de Abreu", "text": "Manuel de Abreu\n\nManuel Dias de Abreu (January 4, 1894 – January 30, 1962) was a Brazilian physician and scientist, the inventor of \"abreugraphy\", a rapid radiography of the lungs for screening tuberculosis. He is considered one of the most important Brazilian physicians, side by side with Carlos Chagas, Vital Brazil and Oswaldo Cruz.\n\nAbreu was born in São Paulo, Brazil, and obtained his M.D. in medicine at the Federal University of Rio de Janeiro in 1914.\nShortly afterwards, he travelled to France, where he first worked in the service of Dr. Louis Gaston, at the Nouvel Hôpital de la Pitié, in 1915. Charged with photographing surgical pathology specimens, Abreu quickly developed new and better devices and methods for this. In 1916, Abreu started to work at the Hôtel-Dieu and had his first contact with medical radiography, which had been discovered by the German physicist Wilhelm Röntgen just 20 years before. He became the director of the laboratory of radiology of the hospital in substitution to the previous director, Dr. Jean Guilleminot, who was conscripted to fight in the First World War. It was in this position, by suggestion of Guilleminot, that Abreu became interest in fluorography, or the photographic recording of fluoroscopic x-ray images of the lungs. He soon was able to perceive the immense diagnostic value of these images for tuberculosis and other pulmonary affections, and he began his photographic studies of the lungs in 1918, now at the Laennec Hospital (also in France).\n\nAbreu's first landmark contribution to the radiography of soft tissues (until then not much utilized as a diagnostic radiographical method, due to the low definition of images) was to develop an x-ray densitometry method, by comparing the degree of white density of biological tissues to water's and to other highly dense references, such as bones, and to point out its value for radiodiagnosis. In 1921 he first published his pioneering work on the radiological interpretation of pulmonary injuries in pleuropulmonary tuberculosis, titled \"\"Le Radiodiagnostic dans la Tuberculose Pleuro-Pulmonaire\"\". This and his method of pulmonary densitometry gave him an invitation to join the prestigious Académie de Médicine de Paris.\n\nIn 1922 Abreu returned to Brazil and accepted a post as the head of the X-Ray Department at the Federal public health service for the prophylaxis of tuberculosis in Rio de Janeiro. The city was at that time going through a devastating epidemic of tuberculosis. He intensified research on thoracic radiography for the purpose of early diagnosis of tubercular lesions, but the results were initially discouraging, due to the low quality of fluroscopic images at the time.\n\nAs a result of the improvements of fluoroscopic and photographic devices and techniques, in 1935 he took again his experiences in the old German Hospital of Rio de Janeiro, and was then able to conceive a cheap and fast method to take small (50 or 100 mm) photographic plates of lungs in a single roll of film, which became a standard tool for an easier diagnosis of tuberculosis for many decades to come, with a corresponding impact on its prophylaxis and cure.\n\nAbreu's ideas for a new mass screening radiography apparatus was made true by the construction of a first device by the Lohner House, a representative of Siemens in Rio de Janeiro. The first service of Thoracic Census was established in 1937. The first results indicated the usefulness of abreugraphy: the screening of 758 asymptomatic and apparently sane individuals in July 1937 revealed that 44 of them had already tuberculosis lung lesions, which allowed for early treatment and a better survival. Mobile units were also employed, and soon abreugraphy became a mandatory examination for anyone applying to a public job or school in Brazil. By the end of the 1940s, Dr. Manuel de Abreu could present the first positive impact of mass screening on tuberculosis mortality.\n\nThe invention was named \"abreugrafia\" in his honor by the Society of Medicine and Surgery of Rio de Janeiro in 1936. Abreugraphy was largely discontinued as a mandatory screening tool in Brazil in the 1970s, after antibiotic treatment and public health programs greatly decreased the incidence of the disease, and also out of fear of unnecessary exposure to x-rays, particularly in children and pregnant woman. The World Health Organization recommended its discontinuance and the Brazilian health service stopped to pay for it in 1999.\n\nAbreugraphy was not used in other countries so intensively as in Brazil and a few other Latin America countries. It received several different names, according to the country where it was adopted: mass radiography, miniature chest radiograph (United Kingdom and United States), roentgenfluorography (Germany), radiophotography (France), schermografia (Italy), photoradioscopy (Spain) and photofluorography (Sweden). The importance of abreugraphy was outlined by the creation of the Brazilian Society of Abreugraphy, in 1957, and the publication of the \"Revista Brasileira de Abreugrafia\".\n\nAbreu was also one of the first radiographists to develop quantitative methods to evaluate the area of internal anatomical structures and to use it in medical diagnosis, an approach which he used to quantitate images of the mediastinum, and which he named radiogeometry. His ideas where collected and published in 1928 in his book \"\"Essai sur une nouvelle Radiologie Vasculaire\"\". Furthermore, Abreu was instrumental in developing new techniques for x-ray planar tomography of the thorax using the simultaneous exposure of several films, as well as the use of tracheobronchic washout as technique for precise detection of Koch bacilli in infected individuals.\n\nManuel Dias de Abreu lectured in the field of medical radiology in innumerable Brazilian and foreign scientific institutions, and was a member of the most important medical organizations of the world. He was awarded the French \"Légion d'Honneur\" and several other scientific prizes, among them the Gold Medal of the American College of Chest Physicians, in 1950 and the Gold Medal of the Argentinian Radiological Society, in 1953.\n\nBesides several books on medicine, Abreu published also two poetical works: \"Substâncias\", which was illustrated by famous Brazilian painter Emiliano Di Cavalcanti and \"Poemas sem Realidade\", illustrated by himself.\n\nTragically (and ironically, for a pneumologist), Dr Abreu, a smoker, died in Rio de Janeiro in 1962 from lung cancer.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1988840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988840", "title": "Frank Buckland (ice hockey)", "text": "Frank Buckland (ice hockey)\n\nFrancis Lawson Taylor Buckland (May 23, 1902, in Gravenhurst, Ontario – June 23, 1991) was a Canadian sports administrator.\n\nBuckland helped lead the Ontario Hockey Association in the 1950s and 1960s. He was president and treasurer of the amateur organization for 21 years. He was inducted into the Hockey Hall of Fame in 1975.\n"}
{"id": "1988847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988847", "title": "Renegade (Styx song)", "text": "Renegade (Styx song)\n\n\"Renegade\" is a 1979 hit song recorded by the American rock band Styx. It was on their \"Pieces of Eight\" album. It reached #16 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 in June 1979.\n\nThe song is a first-person narrative of an outlaw, captured for a bounty, who recognizes that he is about to be executed for his criminal activities. The execution will be by hanging, as the outlaw laments, \"Hangman is coming down from the gallows and I don't have very long.\"\n\nSome pressings of the single were made with translucent, red vinyl. Years after its release it remains a staple on classic rock radio playlists, and is usually the final song Styx plays at its concerts.\n\nWhen performed live from 1978 to 1983, drummer John Panozzo increased the tempo of the drum pattern during the guitar solo sections. Also, the track would serve as the drum solo spot for Panozzo during that time frame.\n\nAlthough songwriter Tommy Shaw and fellow Styx guitarist James Young usually played lead guitar on their own compositions, Young asked Shaw if he could take the solo on \"Renegade\". Shaw agreed, and Young later returned the favor by allowing Shaw to play lead on his \"Half-Penny, Two-Penny\" on the \"Paradise Theatre\" album.\n\nWhen at home games, the Pittsburgh Steelers, an NFL team, play the song during fourth quarter to encourage the crowd. The song is often associated with the team and its fans.\n\nThe song is often used in some media (such as \"Supernatural\" and \"Freaks and Geeks\") to evoke a '70s' aesthetic in the work. In sports, the song is played at Heinz Field as an anthem for the Pittsburgh Steelers during the 4th quarter, especially during close games. Milwaukee Brewers closer Josh Hader uses the song for his run-in music from the bullpen. The song is also featured in the 1995 movie \"Billy Madison\"\". \n\n"}
{"id": "1988850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988850", "title": "Walter Bush", "text": "Walter Bush\n\nWalter Lewis Bush, Jr. (September 25, 1929 – September 22, 2016) was an American ice hockey administrator. He was born in Minneapolis, Minnesota.\n\nIn 1955, he helped start the Central Hockey League, which turned into one of the few successful minor professional hockey leagues of that era. In 1960, he organized and promoted a semi-pro Northwestern League consisting of 6 teams in Minnesota, Iowa and Nebraska sanctioned under the auspices of the Amateur Hockey Association of the United States (AHAUS), and that included several former college players, including Doug Woog of the University of Minnesota who played for both St. Paul and Lincoln, and Canadian center Billy Colpitts of the University of North Dakota who played for Sioux City. Also skating one season for the Sioux City Eagles was 1960 Olympic Gold Medalist Bob Owen. This league was notable for the fact that it was responsible for developing a very strong fan base in the host cities of Edina, St. Paul, Omaha, Sioux City and Lincoln, many of which subsequently became the homes of the oldest franchises in the United States Hockey League's (USHL) Western Division. He was also instrumental in bringing National Hockey League hockey to his home state with the Minnesota North Stars as a minority owner. As the president of USA Hockey for nearly two decades, he was instrumental in the efforts that brought women's hockey into the Olympic program in 1998. He assumed in June 2003 the position of USA Hockey's chairman of the board, a position he was still holding in May 2009.\n\nFrom 1996 to 2001, he was the owner and chairman of the board of the American Hockey League's Kentucky Thoroughblades.\n\nHe was inducted into the United States Hockey Hall of Fame in 1980 and later inducted into the Hockey Hall of Fame in 2000. He was awarded the Olympic Order in 2002, and was inducted into the IIHF Hall of Fame in 2009.\n\nHe was portrayed in the 2004 Disney film \"Miracle\" by Sean McCann. Bush died on September 22, 2016, at the age of 86.\n\n"}
{"id": "1988852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988852", "title": "Lee Batchelor", "text": "Lee Batchelor\n\nEgerton Lee Batchelor (10 April 1865 – 8 October 1911) was an Australian politician and trade unionist. He was a pioneer of the Australian Labor Party (ALP) in South Australia, which at the time was known as the United Labor Party (ULP). He was a member of the South Australian House of Assembly (1893–1901), leading the ULP from 1898 until his resignation in 1899 to accept a ministerial post in a non-Labor government, with the party's approval. Batchelor entered federal politics in 1901 and held cabinet posts in the first three ALP governments. He was Minister for Home Affairs (1904) under Chris Watson, and then served two terms as Minister for External Affairs (1908–1909, 1910–1911) under Andrew Fisher. He suffered a fatal heart attack at the age of 46 while climbing Mount Donna Buang.\n\nLee Batchelor was born in Adelaide, South Australia in 1865 and after the early death of his photographer father, he and his two brothers were raised by his mother. Batchelor was educated at the North Adelaide Model School and worked there as a pupil-teacher when he was 12. He also worked at the North Adelaide Church of Christ secondary school but became an apprentice engine-fitter in the government engineering plant in the Adelaide suburb of Islington at 17.\n\nBatchelor soon became active in the labour movement and joined the Amalgamated Society of Engineers (Adelaide) in 1882 and was its president four times between 1889 and 1898. He was also president of the Railway Service Mutual Association. He was elected treasurer of the Trades and Labor Council in 1892 and secretary in 1893. In 1890 he married Rosina Mooney. In 1891, Batchelor was a prominent founding member of the United Labor Party. He was the ULP secretary from 1892 to 1896 and was president in 1898.\n\nBatchelor was nominated for election to the South Australian House of Assembly on behalf of the ULP in 1893. He gained widespread support from the electorate, and was elected at the top of the poll, becoming one of ten of the first Labor Members of Parliament in South Australia, after John McPherson, the first ULP leader, was elected to East Adelaide in a 1892 by-election. Batchelor also defeated a sitting minister in his seat, and outpolled Charles Kingston, a later Premier of South Australia. When McPherson died in 1897, Batchelor became Labor leader, with the party continuing to support the Kingston liberal government. Thomas Price succeeded Batchelor as Labor leader after the 1899 election (and went on to form the world's first stable Labor government, after the 1905 election). John Verran led Labor to form the state's first of many majority governments at the 1910 election.\n\nFollowing the fall of the Kingston ministry in December 1899 and the brief premiership of Vaiben Louis Solomon, Batchelor was invited to join Frederick Holder's government as the Minister for Education and Agriculture. As the Minister, Batchelor legislated for a new teacher training scheme coupled with university education. Although the Labor Party pledge of 1899 refused the right of members to join a non-Labor administration, caucus released Batchelor from this constraint: Holder's was essentially the old Kingston ministry with which Labor had associated closely. Batchelor resigned from caucus and from the leadership and became the first Labor member in Australia to join a non-Labor ministry, with the party's unanimous approval.\n\nHe retired from the South Australian parliament in 1901 and stood for election to the Parliament of Australia in the first Australian election. Batchelor, along with Holder, was elected to the Australian House of Representatives in the single statewide Division of South Australia. Batchelor was the only Labor member of the seven MPs. Labor candidate Thomas Price finished eighth. After South Australia was divided into electoral divisions for the 1903 election to which Batchelor was assigned the Division of Hindmarsh. Batchelor however unselfishly gave up this seat for one of his state MPs, instead deciding to contest the Division of Boothby against former Premier Vaiben Solomon. The voters of Boothby rewarded this selflessness with his election.\n\nIn 1904, Batchelor was the Minister for Home Affairs in the government of Chris Watson. He was a \"certain inclusion\" in Watson's ministry, and along with Billy Hughes had been counselled Watson in selecting the remainder of the Watson ministry. One of his main responsibilities in the short-lived ministry was for the passage of the \"Seat of Government Act\" as to the founding of the new national capital. He was nominated in the leadership contest when Watson retired as inaugural Labor leader in 1907 but declined to stand.\n\nFrom 1908 to 1909, and again from 1910 to 1911, Batchelor was the Minister for External Affairs under the governments of Andrew Fisher. Batchelor attended the 1911 Imperial Conference along with Fisher, as the leading spokesperson on trade and foreign policy matters.\n\nWhen the Northern Territory was transferred to the control of the Commonwealth in January 1911, Batchelor was the first minister to be given the responsibility of overseeing the administration of the territory. During this time he worked to create reserves for the Indigenous peoples of the Northern Territory.\n\nBatchelor collapsed and died from a heart attack when climbing Mount Donna Buang in October 1911, at age 46. He was the first serving Minister who was also a member of the parliament to die in office (Sir James Dickson, Minister for Defence, died in January 1901 but he was not a member of parliament). Shortly after his death, in 1912, the town of Batchelor, Northern Territory (which is about 98 kilometres south of Darwin) was named after him.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1988856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988856", "title": "Jack Butterfield (ice hockey)", "text": "Jack Butterfield (ice hockey)\n\nJohn Arlington \"Jack\" Butterfield (August 1, 1919 – October 16, 2010) was a professional ice hockey administrator and the president of the American Hockey League, serving the longest tenure of any AHL executive (28 years, from 1966 to 1994). After his retirement as president, he served as the AHL's Chairman of the Board until his death and continued to oversee the creation of the annual regular season schedules for the league. He was born in Regina, Saskatchewan.\n\nAfter leaving the University of Alberta and being wounded in action while serving as a Wellington bomber pilot in the Royal Canadian Air Force in World War II, and before serving as a league official, Butterfield worked for his uncle Eddie Shore's New Haven Eagles and Springfield Indians teams as a public relations executive and trainer. He subsequently held management positions in the Pacific Coast Hockey League and the United States Hockey League before returning to the Indians, serving as a rink manager and trainer before rising to become the team's general manager. He was the general manager when the Indians won three consecutive Calder Cup championships in 1960, 1961 and 1962, a feat as yet unmatched in the AHL.\n\nUpon becoming AHL President in 1966, Butterfield was instrumental in establishing the AHL as the primary minor league for the National Hockey League through restructuring of the basic affiliation agreement with the NHL. This agreement would help the league survive when expansion and the World Hockey Association came into being, and Butterfield's acumen became respected enough so that his views were sought by the NHL Rules Committee. He was responsible for moving the league offices to the Springfield area, where they remain to this day.\n\nButterfield guided the AHL through the difficult '70s, helping the league survive several rounds of NHL expansion and the appearance and disappearance of the WHA.\n\nElected to the Hockey Hall of Fame in 1980 in the Builders' category, Butterfield twice won the James C. Hendy Memorial Award as the AHL's outstanding executive (1971, 1984) and the NHL's Lester Patrick Trophy in 1985 for service to hockey in the United States. He was further honored by having the award for the most valuable player in the AHL playoffs named after him in 1984 and being named as one of the inaugural members of the AHL's Hall of Fame in 2006. Butterfield was also the first recipient of the Thomas Ebright Memorial Award in 1998 for outstanding contributions to the AHL.\n\n\"The American Hockey League would not exist today were it not for the efforts of Jack Butterfield during his tenure as president. He is a hockey legend and his contributions will forever be honored by the AHL,\" according to AHL President David Andrews.\n\nButterfield remained active in the community in retirement, serving on the board of the Springfield Shriner’s Hospital and as vice-chairman of the local March of Dimes. He died in Springfield, Massachusetts, on October 16, 2010.\n\n"}
{"id": "1988857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988857", "title": "Lady (Styx song)", "text": "Lady (Styx song)\n\n\"Lady\" is a 1973 song written and performed by the rock band Styx. It was first released on \"Styx II\" and was a local hit in the band's native Chicago, but initially failed to chart nationally. The song gained success shortly after Styx left Wooden Nickel Records to move to A&M Records in 1974 as it began picking up airplay nationwide, eventually peaking at #6 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 in March 1975. The power ballad was later re-recorded for the 1995 Styx compilation \"Greatest Hits\" due to a contractual dispute between A&M and Wooden Nickel.\n\n\"Lady\" was written by Dennis DeYoung for his wife, Suzanne Feusi, the first song he ever wrote for her. DeYoung recounted to \"Contemporary Keyboard\" magazine for the January 1981 issue that the first time he ever played acoustic piano was when the band arrived at the recording studio to record \"Lady\" and saw the piano in the studio; DeYoung had written the song on an electric piano, but decided to try it out on the piano instead, and liked the sound so much that he switched to the piano for the recorded version. It didn't get much promotion and went nowhere until a DJ named Jeff Davis on WLS in Chicago rediscovered the song when he heard it on a jukebox at a pizza place on the north side of Chicago. Determined to make it a hit, Davis convinced management to let him play the song on his Saturday Night show, which had an audience in 38 states and a few foreign countries. The song became a major hit on the station, spending two weeks at #2 on the WLS survey, and was ranked as the 29th biggest hit of 1975 on their year-end countdown.\n\nThis is the only song from the band's four Wooden Nickel-era albums that is still performed live; all other material from those years has been long disowned by the band. Former lead singer Dennis DeYoung also performs the song regularly on his solo tours.\n\n\nLady '95 is a 1995 Styx re-recording of the 1973 song \"Lady\". It was rerecorded as a result of a contractual dispute between A&M Records and Wooden Nickel Records. It solely appears on A&M compilations, most notably \"Styx: Greatest Hits\", for which the song was rerecorded.\n\nThe 1995 A&M Records Compilation \"Styx: Greatest Hits\" couldn't use the original version of \"Lady\" because the song was originally recorded for and released through Wooden Nickel Records (which also had a distribution arrangement with RCA Records). Because A&M/PolyGram had been unable to secure distribution rights to the song, most of the original lineup of Styx (Dennis DeYoung, Chuck Panozzo, and James \"J.Y.\" Young) reunited with long time guitarist Tommy Shaw to re-record the track at Dennis' home studio, The White Room. They were joined by uncredited session drummer Todd Sucherman, who filled in for John Panozzo due to Panozzo's failing health; Sucherman officially (and permanently) joined the band in 1996, during the Return to Paradise tour, and is included in the present lineup. The track, which is very similar to the original, was titled \"Lady '95\". The recording of the track ultimately led to the original members of Styx reuniting.\n\nThe re-recorded version received mixed reviews from fans. Some claimed that the production was better than the original version. However, other fans still stick to the original, being that the original was the one that hit #6 on the charts.\n\n\nThis song has been featured in various television programs, including episodes of \"It's Always Sunny in Philadelphia\", \"Freaks and Geeks\", \"The Office\", and \"Still Standing\". It has also appeared in films such as \"The Perfect Man\", \"Old School\", and \"Underdog\".\n\nHomer Simpson, as Odysseus, endures this song as he crosses the River Styx in the \"Simpsons\" episode \"Tales from the Public Domain\", groaning \"This truly is hell!\"\n\nDennis DeYoung sang the song with Hal Sparks in 2006 on the show \"Celebrity Duets\".\n"}
{"id": "1988865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988865", "title": "Sigma-class design", "text": "Sigma-class design\n\nThe Sigma class is a Dutch-built family of modular naval vessels, of either corvette or frigate size, designed by Damen Group.\n\nSigma stands for Ship Integrated Geometrical Modularity Approach. The basic design of the Sigma Patrol Series can vary as the hull segments are designed as components. Ships can vary in the number of hull segments and in the order in which they are placed. The ship's dimensions of length and beam lead to the individual SIGMA type names: the SIGMA 9113 is long , the SIGMA 10513, is in length again with a beam of \n\nThe design was derived from the earlier High Speed Displacement hull form by MARIN Teknikk AS in the 1970s.\n\nThere are three types of Sigma combatants\n\nSimplified comparisons between the different Sigma models.\nThere are multiple new Sigma designs released in early 2015 these are the:\n\nThey are likely to be part of the \"Compact SIGMA\" series, a new series small sized combatants with shorter range and up to 2 weeks mission endurance with the same combat systems as the larger Sigmas.\n\n\n\n\n\nThe Indonesian variant is based on the Sigma 9113 design. Work on the first of the class, KRI \"Diponegoro\", began with the first steel cutting conducted in October 2004. The ship was christened on 16 September 2006 and commissioned on 2 July 2007 by Admiral Slamet Soebijanto, Indonesian Navy Chief of Staff.\n\nOptions for two other units were exercised in January 2006 with the first steel cut commenced on 3 April 2006 in Damen's Schelde Naval Shipbuilding yard, Vlissingen-Oost yard and not in Surabaya stated earlier.\n\nOn 28 August 2007, Jane's Missiles and Rockets reported that Indonesia was having problems securing the export license for the MM-40 Exocet block II and are considering Chinese made C-802 anti-ship missiles as alternatives. However, the ships have already been delivered with the Exocet missiles.\n\nOn the 16 August 2010, Indonesia Defense Department, signed a deal with PT PAL Indonesia and Damen Schelde to build a 105-meter frigate in Indonesia based on Damen Schelde Sigma 10514 design. For the first ship, five modules for the ship will be built in Indonesia and the Dutch manufacturer Damen Schelde will build 2 modules while for the second ship the Indonesians will build six modules and Damen Schelde will build one module. The first hull will only be equipped with guns (without major weapons) and the second hull is complete with major weapons such as 76 mm main cannon, 12 MICA vertical launch air defence missile, MM-40 Exocet block III, Torpedo, and SMART-S MK2 radar system. The Indonesian Navy announced that it will build two \"destroyer escorts\" referring to the SIGMA 10514. On the Indo Defence 2012 exposition a model was revealed showing the phalanx and ASW mortar replaced by a single 35 mm Oerlikon Millennium Gun system, also the 76 mm had a stealth cupola. Some reported that the VLS missiles will be Aster-15 instead of MICA, due to these changes the ships role also changed from ASW to AAW.\n\nOn 1 February 2013 it was announced that a second unit will be built by Damen Schelde Naval Shipbuilding and PT PAL Surabaya, the second contract includes torpedo tubes, combat control room and a couple of surface weapons. As of December 2015, the first ship, KRI \"Raden Eddy Martadinata\" (331), was 85% complete and the ship was launched on 18 January 2016. On 7 April 2017 the first ship, KRI \"Raden Eddy Martadinata\" (331), was commissioned at Tanjung Priok. The second ship, KRI \"I Gusti Ngurah Rai\" (332), was commissioned on 10 January 2018.\n\nOn 6 February 2008, Morocco signed a USD$1.2 billion contract with Schelde Naval Shipbuilding for two light frigate SIGMA 9813 and one light frigate SIGMA 10513, which are modified versions of the existing Sigma-class design.\n\nA subsequent contract was signed on 1 April 2008 with Thales Nederland for the supply and installation of the command and control and sensor package for the ships. The package included TACTICOS combat management system, SMART-S Mk2 surveillance radar, LIROD Mk2 tracking radar, Thales KINGKLIP sonar system, IFF system, Integrated communication system comprising external communication system and FOCON internal communication system, two Target Designation Sights, VIGILE ESM system, SCORPION ECM system, and the integrated navigation system.\n\nThe first frigate for Morocco, \"Tarik ben Ziyad\", was launched in July 2010, began sea trials on 6 May 2011 and was delivered on 12 September 2011. The second ship was launched on 2 February 2011, with sea trials planned for late in the year. The third ship was planned to be launched in September 2011.\n\nIn November 2016 the Romanian Navy indicated that Damen Shipyard's Sigma-class design had been selected to supply four vessels, to be locally constructed at the Damen Shipyard in Galati. Romania will order four multi-role corvettes for a total of 1.6 billion euros including training, spare parts and ammunition. The first ship is planned to be delivered within 2.5 years after contract signing.\n\nThe Romanian Navy has studied the SIGMA 9813 and SIGMA 10514 with the 10514 meeting most of the requirements. No official confirmation has been given on what variant of SIGMA will be ordered.\n\nIn July 2019, the Romanian authorities announced the selection of Naval Group and its partner Santierul Naval Constanta (SNC) for the programme to build four new Gowind multi-mission corvettes.\n\nOn 18 August 2017, Damen announced the keel laying for one SIGMA 10514 Long Range Ocean Patrol Vessel (SIGMA 10514 LROPV/ SIGMA 10514 POLA) at Damen Schelde Naval Shipyard in Vlissingen for the Mexican Navy. The vessel was constructed modularly in six modules, two modules were constructed in Vlissingen and the other four modules in Mexico. According to the Defense Security Cooperation Agency Major Arms Sale notification on 5 January 2018, the primary weapon systems for the Sigma class will include RGM-84L Harpoon Block II, RIM-162 ESSM with eight cell MK56 VLS launcher, MK 54 Mod 0 lightweight torpedoes with two (2) MK 32 Surface Vessel Torpedo Tubes (SVTT) triple tube launchers, Block II Rolling Airframe Missile (RAM) missiles and Bofors 57 mm gun. In April 2018 Damen Group contracted Spanish defense technology company Indra to equip the Mexican Navy's new long-range offshore patrol vessel (POLA) with its RIGEL electronic defense system.\n\nIndonesian Navy / Sigma 9113 design\nIndonesian Navy / Sigma 10514 design\nMoroccan Navy / Sigma 9813 & 10513 design\n\nNote: 613 now shows on AIS as \"Sultan Moulay Ismail\".\n\nMexican Navy / Sigma 10514 LRP design\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1988874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988874", "title": "Kneeling", "text": "Kneeling\n\nKneeling is a basic human position where one or both knees touch the ground. \n\n"}
{"id": "1988885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988885", "title": "Emrah Eren", "text": "Emrah Eren\n\nEmrah Eren (born 13 November 1978) is a Turkish retired footballer.\n\nEmrah has played over 250 matches at Turkish Super League and was a Turkey U21 internationals.\n\nEmrah began his career at Gaziosmanpaşa in his teenage years, playing on the right side of defence and midfield. He became professional in İstanbulspor in 1995. He soon found himself at Super Lig team Adanaspor, and immediately made his mark despite his youth. His talent earned him a place in the Turkish under-21 team, first at 1997 Mediterranean Games where he continued to impress the scouts from many teams. Displaying pace, power, technique and hard work it was obvious that he would soon join a big team.\n\nIn the summer of 1999, he joined Galatasaray. His time there was brief, as he failed to earn much playing time. He was loaned out to Istanbulspor for a while but found that his experience on his return to Galatasaray would be the same as he had been through before. At the beginning of the 2002 season he joined league strugglers Kocaelispor. Here he found regular playing time and refound his form and began to show signs of fulfilling his promise that he had displayed in his younger years. His efficient defending combined with runs into the opposition half made him one of the stars of the team. Kocaelispor were relegated from the Superlig. Emrah left to join the Black Sea club Trabzonspor.\n\nAt Trabzonspor, Emrah has established himself as one of the best defenders in Turkish football. He has fulfilled much of the potential that he showed in his youth. He is a fan favourite due to his modesty and hard work in the team. In July 2005 he extended his contract with the team for a further three years, to 2008.\n\nIn January 2006, he joined Malatyaspor.\n\nEmrah Eren is married with one child.\n\nIn June 2010, Emrah Eren signed a 1 year contract with Konyaspor.\n"}
{"id": "1988886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988886", "title": "The Book of Heavy Metal", "text": "The Book of Heavy Metal\n\nThe Book of Heavy Metal is the 3rd full length album by the Swedish heavy metal band Dream Evil. This is the last album to feature Gus G. and Snowy Shaw. \n\nNotes: \n\"Let's Make Rock\" is omitted from this album because it appears as track 13 for the Japanese edition of 2003's \"Evilized\".\n\nThe METALLLL! portion of the U.S. version of the song \"The Book of Heavy Metal\" is removed and placed as the intro to \"The Enemy\" instead.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1988889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988889", "title": "Lipstick", "text": "Lipstick\n\nLipstick is a cosmetic product containing pigments, oils, waxes, and emollients that apply color, texture, and protection to the lips.\n\nMany colors and types of lipstick exist. Some lipsticks are also lip balms, to add color and hydration.\n\nAlthough the name originally applied to the baton (stick) of material, within a tubular container, usually around 10mm in diameter and 50mm in length the term now generally relate to the material itself, regardless of method of application.\n\nAncient Sumerian men and women were possibly the first to invent and wear lipstick, about 5,000 years ago. They crushed gemstones and used them to decorate their faces, mainly on the lips and around the eyes. Egyptians like Cleopatra crushed bugs (carmine) to create a color of red on their lips. Women in the ancient Indus Valley Civilization may have used rectangular pieces of ochre with beveled ends as lipstick. Ancient Egyptians wore lipstick to show social status rather than gender. They extracted the red dye from fucus-algin, 0.01% iodine, and some bromine mannite, but this dye resulted in serious illness. Lipsticks with shimmering effects were initially made using a pearlescent substance found in fish scales.\n\nWomen in the Minoan civilization colored their lips with bright red cosmetics. Lip paint in ancient Greece was initially restricted to prostitutes and courtesans, but expanded to the upper class between 700 and 300 BCE. Greek women colored their lips with cosmetics made from dyes containing Tyrian purple, crushed mulberries, and the toxic pigment vermilion.\n\nThe Chinese made some of the first lipsticks that were made from beeswax over 1,000 years ago to protect the delicate skin of the lips. During the Tang Dynasty (618-907 CE), scented oils were added to them, which gave the mouth an enticing factor.\n\nIn Australia, Aboriginal girls would paint their mouths red with ochre for puberty rituals.\n\nLip colouring started to gain some popularity in 16th-century England. During the time of Queen Elizabeth I bright red lips and a stark white face became fashionable. At that time, lipstick was made from a blend of beeswax and red stains from plants. Only upper-class women and male actors wore makeup.\n\nThroughout most of the 19th century, the obvious use of cosmetics was not considered acceptable in Britain for respectable women, and it was associated with marginalised groups such as actors and prostitutes. It was considered brazen and uncouth to wear makeup. In the 1850s, reports were being published warning women of the dangers of using lead and vermilion in cosmetics applied to the face. By the end of the 19th century, Guerlain, a French cosmetic company, began to manufacture lipstick. The first commercial lipstick had been invented in 1884, by perfumers in Paris, France. It was covered in silk paper and made from deer tallow, castor oil, and beeswax. Prior to this, lipstick had been created at home. Complete acceptance of the undisguised use of cosmetics in England appears to have arrived for the fashionable Londoner at least by 1921.\n\nIn the 19th century, lipstick was colored with carmine dye. Carmine dye was extracted from cochineal, scale insects native to Mexico and Central America which live on cactus plants. Cochineal insects produce carminic acid to deter predation by other insects. Carminic acid, which forms 17% to 24% of the weight of the dried insects, can be extracted from the insect's body and eggs. Mixed with aluminum or calcium salts it makes carmine dye (also known as cochineal).\n\nThis lipstick did not come in a tube; it was applied with a brush. Carmine dye was expensive and the look of carmine colored lipstick was considered unnatural and theatrical, so lipstick was frowned upon for everyday wear. Only actors and actresses could get away with wearing lipstick. In 1880, few stage actresses wore lipstick in public. The famous actress, Sarah Bernhardt, began wearing lipstick and rouge in public. Before the late 19th century, women only applied makeup at home. Bernhardt often applied carmine dye to her lips in public.\n\nIn the early 1890s, carmine was mixed with an oil and wax base. The mixture gave a natural look and it was more acceptable among women. At that time, lipstick was not sold in screw up metal tube; it was sold in paper tubes, tinted papers, or in small pots. The Sears Roebuck catalog first offered rouge for lips and cheeks by the late 1890s.\nBy 1912 fashionable American women had come to consider lipstick acceptable, though an article in the \"New York Times\" advised on the need to apply it cautiously.\n\nBy 1915, lipstick was sold in cylinder metal containers, which had been invented by Maurice Levy. Women had to slide a tiny lever at the side of the tube with the edge of their fingernail to move the lipstick up to the top of the case, although lipsticks in push-up metal containers had been available in Europe since 1911. In 1923, the first swivel-up tube was patented by James Bruce Mason Jr. in Nashville, Tennessee. As women started to wear lipstick for photographs, photography made lipstick acceptable among women. Elizabeth Arden and Estee Lauder began selling lipstick in their salons.\n\nDuring the Second World War, metal lipstick tubes were replaced by plastic and paper tubes. Lipstick was scarce during that time because some of the essential ingredients of lipstick, petroleum and castor oil, were unavailable. World War II allowed women to work in engineering and scientific research, and in the late 1940s, Hazel Bishop, an organic chemist in New York and New Jersey, created the first long lasting lipstick, called No-Smear lipstick. With the help of Raymond Specter, an advertiser, Bishop's lipstick business thrived.\n\nAnother form of lip color, a wax-free, semi-permanent liquid formula, was invented in the 1990s by the Lip-Ink International company. Other companies have imitated the idea, putting out their own versions of long-lasting \"lip stain\" or \"liquid lip color.\"\n\nThroughout the early 20th century, lipstick came in a limited number of shades.\n\nDark red lipstick was one of the most popular shades throughout the 19th and 20th century, especially in the 1920s. Flappers wore lipstick to symbolize their independence. Lipstick was worn around the lips to form a \"Cupid's bow,\" inspired by actress Clara Bow. At that time, it was acceptable to apply lipstick in public and during lunch, but never at dinner.\n\nIn the early 1930s, Elizabeth Arden began to introduce different lipstick colors. She inspired other companies to create a variety of lipstick shades. In the 1930s, lipstick was seen as a symbol of adult sexuality. Teenage girls believed that lipstick was a symbol of womanhood, yet adults saw it as an act of rebellion. Many Americans, especially immigrants, did not accept teenage girls wearing lipstick. A study in 1937 survey revealed that over 50% of teenage girls fought with their parents over lipstick.\n\nIn the mid-1940s, several teen books and magazines stressed that men prefer a natural look over a made-up look. Books and magazines also warned girls that wearing cosmetics could ruin their chances of popularity and a career. The implication of these articles was that lipstick and rouge were for teen girls who acted very provocatively with men. Despite the increased use of cosmetics, it was still associated with prostitution. Teen girls were discouraged from wearing cosmetics for fear that they would be mistaken for \"loose\" girls or prostitutes.\n\nBy the 1950s, movie actresses Marilyn Monroe and Elizabeth Taylor helped bring back dark red lips. A 1951 survey revealed that two-thirds of teenage girls wore lipstick.\n\nIn 1950 chemist Hazel Bishop formed a company, Hazel Bishop Inc., to promote her invention of long-lasting, non-smearing 'kissproof' lipstick (\"stays on you... not on him\"), which quickly gained acceptance. At the end of the 1950s, a cosmetic company named Gala introduced pale shimmery lipstick. Later, Max Factor created a popular lipstick color called Strawberry Meringue. Lipstick manufacturers began creating lipsticks in lavender, pale pink, white, and peach. Since parents generally frowned on teen girls wearing red lipstick, some teen girls began wearing pink and peach lipsticks, which became a trend. White or nearly white lipstick was popular in the 1960s. Rock groups such as the Ronettes and the Shirelles popularized white lipstick. Girls would apply white lipstick over pink lipstick or place under-eye concealer on their lips. During that time, many lipsticks were either matte, sheer, or slightly shiny. In the 1960s, lipstick was associated with femininity. Women who did not wear lipstick were suspected of mental illness or lesbianism.\n\nIn the 1970s, a number of cosmetic companies introduced lipsticks in more unusual colors such as iridescent light blue (Kanebo), frosted lime green (\"Conga Lime\" by Revlon), and silver sparkled navy blue (\"Metallic Grandma\" by Biba). M•A•C cosmetics continues to release limited edition and highly collectible lipsticks in a wide range of colors and finishes, including unusual hues of violets, blues, and greens.\nBlack lipstick became popular in the late 1970s and into the 1990s. In the 1950s, black lipstick had been worn by actresses starring in horror films. It became popular again due in part to punk and goth subcultures.\n\nIn the mid-1980s, so-called mood lipstick, akin to mood rings, was sold to adults by mainstream cosmetic companies. This type of lipstick changes colors after it is applied, based on changes in skin's pH that supposedly reflect the wearer's mood. Previously these had been available as little girls' play makeup. They had another resurgence in the very early 21st century, offered by inexpensive as well as more exclusive cosmetic lines, and color changing chemicals also appeared in lip gloss, such as Smashbox O-Gloss, and blush, such as Stila Custom Color Blush.\n\nIn the 1990s, lipstick colors became semi-matte. Shades of brown were very popular. These shades were inspired by several shows, such as \"Friends\". In the late 1990s and into the 21st century, pearl shades became very popular. Lipsticks were no longer matte or semi-matte, but were shiny.\n\nIn 2012, bright bold lip colors became trendy again with saturated colors such as hot pink, neon, and orange.\n\nIn 2014 and early 2015 nude lipsticks became popular. These lipsticks follow the general trend where \"less is more\". Examples of celebrities promoting this trend are Paris Hilton and Gigi Gorgeous.\n\nIn late 2015 and 2016 liquid lipstick, which applies like a gloss but dries matte, became popularized with brands such as Anastasia Beverly Hills, Sephora, Huda Beauty, Kylie Cosmetics, NYX Cosmetics. Its most common form comes in a tube, applied with an applicator wand. Liquid lipstick tend to have more staying power and more pigmented than the traditional lipstick. However, it is more drying and easily cracked during the day.\n\nLipstick also has many variations including liquid, lip balms, glosses, crayons, pencils, liners, palettes, and stains. Balms and glosses tend to be more translucent and not as dark or vibrant. Some individuals buy lip balms and glosses rather than lipstick, as they get a more hydrating feeling from these. \n\nA \"lipstick lesbian\" is a female who is typically attracted to other females, but remains stereotypically feminine and has a “girly” identity, sometimes known as a \"femme.\" The term \"lipstick lesbian\" became popular when used by writer Deborah Bergman, a reporter for the \"Los Angeles Times\".\n\nLipstick contains wax, oils, antioxidants, and emollients. Wax provides the structure to the solid lipstick. Lipsticks may be made from several waxes such as beeswax, ozokerite and candelilla wax. Because of its high melting point, carnauba wax is a key ingredient in terms of strengthening the lipstick. Various oils and fats are used in lipsticks, such as olive oil, mineral oil, cocoa butter, lanolin, and petrolatum. \n\nLipsticks get their colors from a variety of pigments and lake dyes including, but not limited to bromo acid, D&C Red No. 21, Calcium Lake such as D&C Red 7 and D&C Red 34, and D&C Orange No. 17. Pink lipsticks are made by mixing white titanium dioxide and red shades. Both organic and inorganic pigments are employed.\n\nMatte lipsticks contain more filling agents like silica but do not have many emollients. Creme lipsticks contain more waxes than oils. Sheer and long lasting lipsticks contain more oil, while long lasting lipsticks also contain silicone oil, which seals the colors to the wearer's lips. Glossy lipstick contains more oil to give a shiny finish to the lips.\n\nShimmery or frost lipstick may contain mica, silica, and synthetic pearl particles, such as bismuth oxychloride, to give them a glittery or shimmering shine.\n\nLipstick is made from grinding and heating ingredients. Then heated waxes are added to the mix for texture. Oils and lanolin are added for specific formula requirements. Afterwards, the hot liquid is poured into a metal mold. The mixture is then chilled. Once they have hardened, they are heated in flame for half a second to create a shiny finish and to remove imperfections.\n\nLead and other trace metals may be found in many lipsticks; these occur naturally and can accidentally contaminate other ingredients during production. As contaminants are not added intentionally they will not be listed as ingredients. \n\nIn 2007, a study by the Campaign for Safe Cosmetics released a report called \"A Poison Kiss\" that tested 33 popular brands of lipstick for lead content. The study found that 61 percent of lipsticks contained lead with levels up to 0.65 parts per million (ppm). The study raised public awareness of the issue, putting pressure on the FDA to conduct further studies using a specialized testing method. In 2009, the FDA released the follow-up study to the Campaign for Safe Cosmetics' report, which found lead was present in all 20 samples tested. The lead levels ranged from 0.09 to 3.06 ppm, with the highest levels found in lipsticks made by Cover Girl, L'Oreal, and Revlon.\n\nIn 2010, the FDA conducted an expanded survey on its previous study, which broadened the testing to 400 lipsticks that were available on the U.S. market at the time. This study was performed by Frontier Global Sciences, Inc. using the same testing method as 2009. This study found an average of 1.11 ppm compared to the 1.07 ppm average in the 2009 study, while the highest amount of 7.19 ppm in Maybelline's Color Sensational 125 – Pink Petal. This was more than twice the highest amount found in the 2009 study.\n\nTrace amounts of lead can contaminate raw ingredients, specifically mineral based additives, as this element occurs naturally in soil, water, and air. The Campaign for Safe Cosmetics made a list of chemicals for concern which can contain toxic chemicals such as lead.\n\nWhilst only trace amounts of lead are ingested from lipstick, lead accumulates in the body over time, which can eventually lead to lead poisoning. The most common users of lipstick are teens and adult women, and a study performed by the University of California-Berkeley found that women applied lipstick anywhere from two to fourteen times a day. This translates to up to 87 milligrams of product ingestion per day. Lead ingestion is particularly concerning for pregnant women because lead can enter the fetus from the mother.\n\nThe FDA is the regulating body of cosmetic safety under the U.S. FD&C Act. Cosmetics regulated by the FD&C Act do not need to be approved for pre-market sale, but pre-market approval is required for any color additives used in lipsticks. Currently, the FDA has not set an acceptable lead limit level for lipsticks specifically, but it has set specifications for lead in the color additives used in lipstick. The FDA's maximum lead limit level is 20 parts per million in cosmetics; however, since lipstick is absorbed through the skin and only ingested in very small quantities, the FDA does not \"consider the lead levels we found in the lipsticks to be a safety concern\". The CDC, on the other hand, reports that there is no safe blood level for lead and that its presence, even at low levels, can affect IQ, the ability to pay attention, and academic achievement. Once present, the effects of lead exposure on the body cannot be reversed.\n\nTraces of lipstick, cosmetics, nail polish, or other \"smears\" could be found left on drinking cups, glasses, cigarette butts, and tissue papers and may all be significant forensic evidence in the investigation of a crime, especially in cases such as sexual assault, homicide, and in government- or corporate-related corruption and controversies.\n\nLipstick, as a physical evidence, may be found on clothing, parts of the victim's or convict's body, a tissue, a cigarette, etc. By comparing the composition of a lipstick smear with that of a victim or a witness, forensic scientists can demonstrate direct or indirect proof of contact or a relationship between the plaintiff and the defendant. Also, it is sometimes possible to extract saliva DNA from the lipstick print which might link a suspect to their presence at the crime scene.\n\nVarious other methods of forensic lipstick analysis are used. For instance, a small amount of lipstick (approximately 10 μg) could lead to good comparisons in thin-layer chromatography.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1988890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988890", "title": "John Seybert", "text": "John Seybert\n\nJohn Seybert (1791 – 1860) was an American bishop of the Evangelical Association. He was only the second Bishop of this denomination, a predecessor to the Evangelical United Brethren Church (and the United Methodist Church). He was elected at the General Conference of 1839.\n\nSeybert was born 7 July 1791 in Manheim, Pennsylvania and died 4 January 1860 near Flat Rock, Ohio. His father, Henry, had been a German mercenary soldier in the British army during the American Revolutionary War. He was captured and imprisoned at Lancaster, Pennsylvania. After the war he became something of an indentured servant to a Mr. Schaffner, serving for three years. In 1790 Henry was married to Susan Kreuzer. Two of their four sons survived to maturity, John and David.\n\nJohn, Sr. was confirmed in the Lutheran faith. He received an elementary education in German and English. The family prospered, John receiving in 1806 at his father's death a farm near Manheim. One year after Henry's death, John's mother deserted her sons and entered a religious community at Harmony, Pennsylvania, called the Rappites. Though John maintained contact with her until his death, her actions permanently alienated David from their mother.\n\nThough raised, even confirmed, a Lutheran, John was converted at a revival held by an itinerant Evangelical preacher, Matthias Betz, in Manheim, 21 June 1810. Immediately he showed great zeal for the Christian faith. He was chosen as class leader of a class that met in Manheim. He was also recruited as class leader of a class that met in nearby Mount Joy.\n\nSeybert was brought into the preaching ministry of the Evangelical Association by the Rev. John Dreisbach, an early denominational leader. Seybert was received as a preacher-on-trial in 1819 and appointed to the Lancaster Circuit. He began a strenuous discipline of Biblical and theological study, which he follow throughout his long ministry.\n\nIn 1822 Seybert was ordained a deacon. He went on to serve other churches/circuits, finally arriving in the Ohio Conference. While traveling through swampy areas of Ohio, he contracted malaria which kept him in precarious health the rest of his life. In 1824 he was ordained an elder. In 1825 he was elected to the supervisory position of presiding elder, appointed to the Canaan District in Pennsylvania (a large area mostly east of the Susquehanna River, south into Virginia, and north into New York).\n\nThe expansion of the Evangelical Association, both in territory as well as the increasing complexity of its Charitable and Mission Societies, led the denomination in 1839 to adopt a great centralization of leadership. This led to John Seybert's election as Bishop, the first Evangelical leader to hold that office since the death of founder, Bishop Jacob Albright in 1808. Seybert accepted this election only after much prayer and self-examination.\n\nAs a bishop, Seybert was required to travel extensively throughout the expanding Church, both in general ministry as well as to preside at all Conferences. He traveled by carriage where roads were passable. Where there were no roads, he traveled on horseback, and sometimes walked. His travels ranged from New York, to New Jersey, to the Shenandoah Valley, to southwestern Pennsylvania, as far west as St. Louis, eastern Iowa, northern Illinois, Milwaukee, Detroit, Waterloo in Canada, Buffalo, and the Mohawk Valley. In one year (1850), for example, he traveled 106 days in Pennsylvania, 50 days in New York, 60 days in Ohio, 11 days in Michigan, 34 days in Indiana, 81 days in Illinois, 14 days in Wisconsin, 6 days in Maryland, and 3 days in Canada (for a total of 365 days). Although in later years he could have traveled by train, Bishop Seybert continued his previous methods of travel because it allowed him to minister to people in need all along his route.\n\n"}
{"id": "1988891", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988891", "title": "State trials", "text": "State trials\n\nIn English law, the term state trials primarily denotes trials relating to offences against the state. In practice it is a term often used of cases illustrative of the law relating to state officers or of international or constitutional law.\n\nThe first collection of accounts of state trials was published in 1719 in four volumes. Although without an editor's name, it appears that Thomas Salmon (1679–1767), an historical and geographical writer, was responsible for the collection. A second edition, increased to six volumes, under the editorship of Sollom Emlyn (1697–1754), appeared in 1730. This edition contained a lengthy preface critically surveying the condition of English law at the time.\n\nA third edition appeared in 1742, in eight volumes, the seventh and eighth volumes having been added in 1835. Ninth and tenth volumes were added in 1766, and a fourth edition, comprising ten volumes, with the trials arranged chronologically, was published the same year. A fifth edition, originated by William Cobbett, but edited by Thomas Bayly Howell (1768–1815) and known as \"Cobbett's Complete Collection of State Trials\", was published between 1809 and 1826. This edition is in thirty-three volumes; twenty-one of them, giving the more important state trials down to 1781, were edited by TB Howell, and the remaining volumes, bringing the trials down to 1820, by his son Thomas Jones Howell (d. 1858).\n\nA new series, under the direction of a parliamentary committee, was projected in 1885, with the object of bringing the trials down to a later date. Eight volumes were published in 1888–1898, bringing the work down to 1858. The first three of these were edited by Sir John Macdonell, the remaining five by John Edward Power Wallis. For the purpose of citation, their name may be abbreviated to St Tr (NS).\n\nSelections have also been edited by Harry Lushington Stephen and others.\n\n"}
{"id": "1988894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988894", "title": "Janet Pilgrim (model)", "text": "Janet Pilgrim (model)\n\nJanet Pilgrim (born Charlaine Edith Karalus; June 13, 1934 – May 1, 2017) was an American model who became a Playmate of the Month while employed at \"Playboy's\" corporate office. She was chosen as Playmate of the Month three times: July 1955, December 1955 and October 1956.\n\nIn 1955 \"Playboy\" was in its second year of production and had previously used professional models as Playmates. Karalus worked for Hugh Hefner in the subscription department and agreed to pose for the July 1955 episode in exchange for a new addressograph for the office. Hefner reportedly chose the name \"Janet Pilgrim\" as to make fun of sexual puritanism.\n\nKaralus appeared topless with a tuxedo-clad man reported to be Hefner in the background with his back to the camera. The caption read in part: \"We found Miss July in our own circulation department, processing subscriptions, renewals, and back copy orders. Her name is Janet Pilgrim and she's as efficient as she is good looking.\"\n\nReaders responded well to her appearance as Miss July and sent in letters asking for more Janet Pilgrim. Despite getting offers to model for outside agencies, Janet chose to appear twice more as a Playmate and was listed on Playboy's masthead as head of reader's services department for the next 10 years. Hefner at one point offered a personal phone call from Pilgrim in exchange for enrollment in a lifetime subscription to his magazine.\n\nPilgrim is said to be the prototype of the \"girl next door\" approach to Playboy Playmates from that time onward.\n\nIn the early 1980s she attended college to become a registered nurse, and worked in geriatrics. She is the daughter of the late Gedeminis Karalus and Hulda Wittekind. She was predeceased by her husband Alan Whitelaw; her brothers George and Donald, and sister Carol. She is survived by her sister Marilyn Pajkos; her daughters Linda (Kerry) Smith, of New Canaan; and Lisa (Gary) Wehner, of Hartwick, NY. She had five grandchildren: Zachary and Rachel Smith, of New Canaan; and Christopher, Jennifer, and Samantha Wehner, of Hartwick, New York.\n\nShe died in Norwalk, Connecticut, at the age of 82.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1988901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988901", "title": "Amalgamated Engineering Union (Australia)", "text": "Amalgamated Engineering Union (Australia)\n\nThe Amalgamated Engineering Union (AEU), originally known as the Amalgamated Society of Engineers, was an Australian trade union which existed between 1852 and 1973. It represented engineers, as well as some other metal trades workers.\n\nThe first Australian branch of the Amalgamated Society of Engineers was formed in Sydney in 1852 by 27 members of the British union who had emigrated to Australia following a lockout in Britain. While the Australian section was the first overseas branch of the union to be formed, several others were established over the course of the 19th century, including in Canada, South Africa, New Zealand and the United States.\n\nIn 1890 a breakaway group formed the Australasian Society of Engineers, dissatisfied with the union being controlled from Britain. The ASE was to continue to operate in parallel to the AEU throughout its history, and the two organisations were bitter rivals in organising engineering workers.\nIn 1921, following the amalgamation of the parent ASE union with several smaller British engineering unions, the Society was renamed the Amalgamated Engineering Union. In February 1938 the Australian branch was deregistered, but was re-established later the same year, to be known as the Amalgamated Engineering Union (Australian Section). In 1969 the Australian branch separated from its British parent union, forming an autonomous union known simply as the Amalgamated Engineering Union (AEU). In 1972 the union began amalgamating with the Sheet Metal Working Industrial Union of Australia, the Boilermakers and Blacksmiths' Society of Australia and the Federated Jewellers, Watchmakers and Allied Trades Union of Australia. Between 1976 and 1983, this new union was called the Amalgamated Metal Workers & Shipwrights Union, before becoming the Amalgamated Metal Workers' Union (AMWU).\n\nThe ASE was famous for its involvement in the landmark 1920 High Court of Australia case, \"Amalgamated Society of Engineers v Adelaide Steamship Co. Ltd.\", more popularly known as the \"Engineers' case\", which overturned the doctrine of implied intergovernmental immunities, significantly altering the balance of power in Australian federalism.\n"}
{"id": "1988906", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988906", "title": "Refuse &amp; Resist!", "text": "Refuse &amp; Resist!\n\nRefuse & Resist! (\"R&R!\") was a human rights activist group founded in New York City in 1987 by Emile de Antonio, Dore Ashton, Dennis Brutus, John Gerassi, Abbie Hoffman, William Kunstler, C. Clark Kissinger, Conrad Lynn, Sonia Sanchez, Rev. Fernando Santillana, and other activists who were concerned that the American government, epitomized by U.S. President Ronald Reagan, advocated a far right-wing political program directed against the political rights of its people. Artist Keith Haring created R&R!'s logo in 1988. The organization's national office was located in New York City, with chapters at various times in Atlanta, Georgia; Chicago, Illinois; Honolulu, Hawaii; Los Angeles, California; Miami, Florida; Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; Milwaukee, WI; New York City and the San Francisco Bay Area. The organization officially dissolved in 2006. At that time, the national office closed, and the organization's files transferred to the Tamiment Library at New York University.\n\nRefuse & Resist! opposed censorship, war, acts of police brutality, in support of political prisoners and against the death penalty. The organization advocated reproductive rights and played an active role in the defense of abortion clinics. It also supported rights for undocumented immigrants. The group did not endorse candidates for elected public office.\n\nThe organization was made up of affiliated independent organizations, individuals, local chapters, and less formal national 'networks' organized around specific initiatives or interests. The central form of the organization was a National Council which met periodically to \"identify new reactionary attacks and to encourage resistance to them.\"\n\nFrom September 1987 through early 2002, Refuse & Resist! published the print periodical \"CounterAttack\" and from 1995 until 2006 it maintained the \"Refuse & Resist!\" website as media for information about political and social events of concern in the United States and internationally.\n\nIn 1988, R&R! organized \"Resist in Concert!\" at the New York Palladium, with performances by Sinéad O'Connor, Afrika Bambaataa, De La Soul, Ikey C & Easy-Ad, Karen Finley, Lenny Kaye, Shinehead, and others.\n\nIn addition to the \"Resist in Concert!\" initiative, Refuse & Resist! involved and supported progressive art and artists, including supporting artists and arts organizations whose work was the object of governmental repression. Visual and performing artists, especially in New York and Los Angeles, were active in the Artists' Network of Refuse & Resist! and experimented with ways to integrate political themes of resistance with aesthetic expression.\n\nR&R! initiated a periodic Courageous Resister Award to recognize important individual acts of resistance and in support of civil rights and civil liberties. Recipients included health care workers, activists against police brutality, artists, and even small towns. The first awards were presented at Resist in Concert! 1988, by Susan Sarandon, Robbie Conal, and Philip Agee.\n\nR&R! organized public demonstrations and other forms of protest in support of abortion rights, immigrants' rights, political prisoners, and for other causes. For example, R&R! activists were actively involved in demonstrations against the 1991 invasion of Iraq and marched with thousands in the streets of New York City to protest the politics of the 2004 Republican National Convention.\n\nR&R! organized against many forms of censorship. For example, when in 1989 the U.S. Congress adopted the so-called Jesse Helms Amendment, which required the National Endowment for the Art not to fund \"obscene or indecent\" art, R&R! organized both the \"Jesse Helms Degenerate Art Show\" and the \"New Blasphemy Forum\" in New York City as forums for artists to express opposition to the new restrictions. Likewise, R&R! came to the defense of artists, such as Ice T, whose art was the object of censorship.\n\nR&R! opposed the invasion of privacy and government surveillance. For example, when the 1990 Census was conducted, R&R! organized public demonstrations across the U.S., in which census forms were burned in protest of what they saw as intrusive questions asked on the forms.\n\nR&R! upheld reproductive freedom for women and posed the slogan \"Abortion on Demand & without Apology!\" In this activity, they frequently defended physicians and women's health clinics. In response to the judicial opinions in \"Webster v. Reproductive Health Services\" and \"Rust v. Sullivan\", R&R! deliberately disrupted two sessions of the U.S. Supreme Court, which was the first time that court had ever experienced public protest. In related events, activists occupied the offices of U.S. Congressman Henry Hyde and the National Right to Life Committee, both whom opposed abortion. During the 1990s, R&R! were vocal and uncompromising opponents of Operation Rescue, a group known for staging protests and civil disobedience against abortion clinics. Refuse & Resist! also co-initiated the National Day of Appreciation for Abortion Providers in 1996, which has since become an annual event.\n\nR&R! supported the defense of Mumia Abu-Jamal, an early member, who was accused and convicted of murder in 1982. Citing suppressed and allegedly falsified evidence presented against Mumia, R&R! joined with many others in exposing his trial and conviction as political persecution and a vendetta conducted by the Philadelphia Police Department. R&R! was active in the international \"Free Mumia\" campaign. in 1995, R&R initiated a series of \"Philly Freedom Summers\" in which students and other youth converged in Philadelphia, to raise public awareness and support for Abu-Jamal and for a new trial. It was during the first summer that they spoke out against Pennsylvania Governor Tom Ridge, who signed a death warrant for Abu-Jamal that June. That August the execution order was stayed, but Abu-Jamal remains in prison pending the outcome of his appeal.\n\nR&R! supported the rights of all immigrants, raising the slogan \"We Are All Illegals!\" Activists often protested at the offices of the Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) and at the United States Coast Guard base in Miami, Florida, in opposition to the return of Haitian refugees back to Haiti. In Texas, activists were arrested for climbing the fences of a 'secret' INS detention facility and exposing its activities.\n\nR&R! organized the first National Conference Against the War on Drugs. They revealed photographs of alleged \"boot camps\" supposedly being used to incarcerate youths as punishment for what they felt were victimless drug crimes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1988908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988908", "title": "Robert Vansittart (judge)", "text": "Robert Vansittart (judge)\n\nRobert Vansittart (December 28, 1728 – January 31, 1789) was an English jurist, antiquarian and rake.\n\nThe son of Arthur Vansittart and Martha, daughter of Sir John Stonhouse, 3rd Baronet, and elder brother of Henry Vansittart, he grew up in Shottesbrooke in Berkshire. He was educated at Winchester College and Trinity College, Oxford, becoming a fellow of All Souls College, Oxford in 1748. In 1753, he was called to the bar at the Inner Temple. He held a number of minor judicial appointments, including that of recorder of Maidenhead in 1758 and Newbury in 1764, before being appointed Regius Professor of civil law at Oxford in 1767, a chair he held until his death. He published a number of antiquarian works in his spare time.\n\nHe was a close acquaintance of Samuel Johnson, William Hogarth and Paul Whitehead and a participant in the debauchery of the Hellfire Club.\n\nHe died, unmarried, in Oxford.\n\nA character in one of Johann Wolfgang von Goethe's comedies is named for him following a meeting in Italy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1988910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988910", "title": "Kneeling chair", "text": "Kneeling chair\n\nA kneeling chair is a type of chair for sitting in a position with the thighs dropped to an angle of about 60° to 70° from vertical (as opposed to 90° when sitting in a normal chair), with some of the body's weight supported by the shins.\n\nIn 1979, Hans Christian Mengshoel invented the original kneeling chair of modern times, the Balans chair. Three Norwegian designers, Oddvin Rykken, Peter Opsvik, and Professor Svein Gusrud developed chairs based on the same principle.\n\nThe kneeling chair is meant to reduce lower back strain by dividing the burden of one's weight between the shins and the buttocks. People with coccyx or tailbone pain resulting from significant numbers of hours in a sitting position (e.g., office desk jobs) are common candidates for such chairs.\n\nA proper kneeling chair creates the open body angle by lowering the angle of the lower body, keeping the spine in alignment and the sitter properly positioned to task. The benefit of this position is that if one leans inward, the body angle remains 90° or wider. A misconception regarding kneeling chairs is that the body's weight bears on the knees, and thus users with poor knees cannot use the chair. In a proper kneeling chair, most of the weight remains on the buttocks, and some of the weight bears on the shins, not the knees. The primary function of the shin rests (knee rests) is to keep one from falling forward out of the chair.\n\nA saddle chair provides another way to keep the body from falling forward; this type of seat is generally seen in some sit stand stools, which seek to emulate the straddle riding or saddle position of a horseback rider.\n\nConclusions from scientific work on the possible benefits of the kneeling position point in different directions.\n\nDr. A. C. Mandal’s research from the 1960s to the 1990s concluded that a forward sloping seat did effectively tip the pelvis forward, opening up the angle between torso and thigh, and thereby correctly aligns the spine, indicating a more suitable position for long periods of sitting.\n\nDrury and Francher studied the original Balans kneeling chair in 1985, concluding that overall it was “no better than conventional chairs and could be worse than well-designed conventional office chairs”.\n\nLander, et al. conducted another experiment in 1987 comparing the kneeling chair with a conventional chair, finding support for claims of increased blood circulation.\n\nA 1989 study on a sample of 20 subjects concluded that the Balans chair promoted greater lumbar curvature than the “straight back chair” during relaxed sitting, typing, and writing, and that it could contribute to treatment of lower back injuries.\n\nA more recent study from 2008 confirms that “ergonomically designed kneeling chairs set at +20° inclination do maintain standing lumbar curvature to a greater extent than sitting on a standard computer chair”.\n"}
{"id": "1988911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988911", "title": "Robert Stacy McCain", "text": "Robert Stacy McCain\n\nRobert Stacy McCain (born October 6, 1959) is an American conservative journalist, writer, and blogger. McCain is a former assistant national editor and reporter for \"The Washington Times\" and co-author (with Lynn Vincent) of the 2006 book \"Donkey Cons: Sex, Crime, and Corruption in the Democratic Party\". He is proprietor of the blog, The Other McCain.\n\nRobert Stacy McCain was born on October 6, 1959.\n\nMcCain joined the staff of \"The Washington Times\" in November 1997. In addition to his regular duties as an editor, McCain also contributed numerous by-lined news and feature articles to \"The Washington Times\". He frequently reported on controversial issues in the \"culture war,\" including stories related to sexuality, education, and history. His writing about communism included feature stories about Joseph McCarthy, \"The Black Book of Communism\", and the obituary of former U.S. Communist Party leader Gus Hall. McCain's reporting on controversies surrounding sexuality included features about Alfred Kinsey, the Jesse Dirkhising murder case, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), and Judith Levine's controversial 2002 book, \"Harmful to Minors\".\n\nIn 2003, McCain was named editor of the \"Culture, Etc.\" page of \"The Washington Times\", which appears on Page A2 of the newspaper Monday through Friday. Over the years, McCain interviewed many prominent authors and personalities.\n\nIn 2006, McCain co-wrote \"Donkey Cons\" with Lynn Vincent (), and created a blog to promote the book.\n\nMcCain also contributed freelance articles, reviews and commentary pieces to a number of publications including \"The American Spectator\", \"Reason\", \"The American Conservative\", \"Ripon Forum\", and \"\", as well as such online forums as \"The Conservative Voice\" and \"The American Thinker\".\n\nIn January 2008, McCain announced he would resign from \"The Washington Times\" in order to concentrate on a book project and began blogging about the 2008 presidential race as \"The Other McCain.\" In March 2010, McCain returned to the Times as a freelance writer, covering a New York congressional race with a candidate with connections to the Tea Party.\n\nOn March 13, 2013, McCain was named the editor-in-chief at ViralRead.com.\n\nThe Southern Poverty Law Center reported in 2000 that McCain was once a member of the League of the South. Writer Barrett Brown accuses McCain of failing to disclose conflicts of interest, writing in his book \"Hot, Fat and Clouded,\" that McCain is \"a member of the sons of Confederate Veterans, for instance, an organization which the reader may recall from a few seconds ago, when McCain was covering it in the context of an objective news article regarding a controversial dispute between the organization of which he's a member and a fellow whom he and the organization both strongly opposed -- and who belonged to a certain race with whom McCain has elsewhere expressed great interest.\"\n\nBrown also accuses McCain of writing under the pseudonym \"Burke C. Dabney\" for the white supremacist magazine \"American Renaissance\".\n\nMcCain lives on the Atlantic Seaboard with his wife. They have six children, whom they homeschooled. He is a Baptist, and has remarked, \"I am a poor excuse for a Christian, but I really do have a deep faith in God\".\n\nMcCain frequently derides Senator John McCain as \"Crazy Cousin John\". The distant kinship is based on a common ancestor in South Carolina listed in the 1790 Census.\n\n"}
{"id": "1988916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988916", "title": "Westheimer Street Festival", "text": "Westheimer Street Festival\n\nThe Westheimer Street Festival was a community street fair held bi-annually in Houston, Texas, United States from approximately 1971 to 2004. The festival underwent name and management changes afterwards. By 2009 the street festival was absorbed into what is currently now known as the Free Press Summer Fest.\n\nThe festival (as well as its current successor, The Westheimer Block Party) takes its name from Westheimer Road, a thoroughfare in Houston which extends from approximately Bagby Street to the Westpark Tollway. At its near terminus, Westheimer Road passes for a number of blocks through Neartown. This area has acquired a reputation as Houston's 'bohemian' enclave sometime between the end of World War II and the 1960s. By the time of the Street Festival's inception, the Neartown area served as the social and geographic hub of Houston's Gay and Lesbian Community, as well as the focal point of alternative art and music within the City of Houston at large.\n\nWhat became the Westheimer Street Festival was an offshoot of the Westheimer Colony Art Festival (known as the Bayou City Art Festival since 1997), which was established in 1971 as an arts/crafts festival. Both the original event and the later street fair occurred twice yearly over the course of a weekend in mid-April and a weekend in mid-October. Throughout the 1970s and 1980s, the 'Westheimer Art Festival' and the 'Westheimer Street Festival' continued to diverge. At one point, the art festival became a fenced-off, paid-admission event held in the parking lot of a strip center at the intersection of Westheimer Road and Montrose Boulevard. By this time, the Street Festival extended a dozen blocks along Westheimer and included well over a hundred art and craft vendors, food vendors and beer booths, as well as several outdoor stages showcasing local bands and musicians. Eventually, the Westheimer Colony Association decided to vacate the Neartown area altogether, first moving to downtown Houston and later Memorial Park—reorganizing in the process as the Bayou City Art Festival.\n\nBy the early 1990s, the Westheimer Street Festival had grown to an event that hosted as many as 300,000 attendees over a two-day period, requiring street closure on Westheimer for about half a dozen blocks and resulting in traffic jams for several blocks further in both directions. The festival had originally been a fairly anarchistic and organic event, with no central organization. Realizing that an event of this size required professional management, the City of Houston took steps to ensure that there would be no Westheimer Street Festival in the absence of professional management. The principal step was an agreement with the Texas Alcoholic Beverage Commission to prevent the issuance of so-called 'picnic permits' within the blocks covered by the festival. The TABC agreed that they would only issue a single alcohol permit to the individual or entity holding a street closure permit from the city. The city then restricted the conditions for obtaining the permit: it would not be issued unless the applicant had taken out an insurance policy covering the event and hired sufficient clean-up, sanitation, and security to guarantee minimal impact on surrounding residences. Under these circumstances, the Westheimer Street Festival came under the control of The Westheimer Street Festival Corporation, as led by John Florez.\n\nFrictions between the street fair and local residents were only somewhat abated by Mr. Florez's management. He had no prior experience as an event producer and a tendency to minimize the event budget wherever possible. A frequent complaint from neighborhood homeowners was a chronic lack of portable toilets (and the attendant consequences), with minimal attention to post-event clean-up running a close second. What had started out as a friendly neighborhood event held by and for residents of a relaxed and fairly bohemian community had become a bacchanal crowding of thousands into a neighborhood increasingly dominated by upscale condominiums and their increasingly conservative inhabitants.\n\nBy the late 1990s, matters had reached the point where city council members Annise Parker and Chris Bell felt obliged to introduce a city ordinance requiring public hearings as a precondition for the issuance of a street closure permit. The ordinance became law on June 16, 1999. The last 'true' WestFest in Neartown was held on October 16 and 17, 1999. Shortly thereafter, Mr. Florez moved his event out of Neartown altogether, and for several years produced an event called \"The Westheimer Street Festival in Exile\" in Eleanor Tinsley Park several miles north of the original festival site. At this point, the last vestige of any similarity to the original community event was pretty well gone. Other parties beckoned however, and by 2002 the \"Westheimer Street Festival in Exile\" had largely run out of steam.\n\nIn 2003, Mr. Florez attempted to return his event to Neartown by unofficially piggybacking it onto the Annual Gay Pride Parade. The principal effect of this attempt was to alienate many of Mr. Florez's remaining friends in the Houston Gay and Lesbian Community and further cement opposition of local community groups to the entire idea of a neighborhood street party. Florez relocated to San Antonio in late 2004; he was murdered on June 23, 2007 by two young men at his local video store, Videos Mexicanos, who wanted to travel to Houston for the annual Gay Pride Weekend festivities.\n\nOctober 15, 2005 saw the return, of sorts, of the Westheimer Street Festival. Initially called 'WestFest Compressed' and now known as 'The Westheimer Block Party', this event is the brainchild of Free Press Houston publisher Omar Afra. While it bears extremely little resemblance to the oversized and unmanagable street festival of the 1980s and 1990s, it bears considerable similarity to the community street festival and art show as it existed in the 1970s and early 1980s. The event occurs without street closure on series of properties around the intersection of Westheimer road and Taft Street. Changes the Neartown area has experienced over the last twenty years rule out the possibility that the 'Block Party' will ever grow to match the original festival. It has experienced a slow and steady growth over the last two years, however, and seems to be finding friends and supporters within the community. Afra later invested in a Westheimer Block Party replacement, the Free Press Summer Fest since 2009 where it is likely that a new reincarnation of the Westheimer Street Festival is done for good.\n\n"}
{"id": "1988922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988922", "title": "Stephen Bar Sudhaile", "text": "Stephen Bar Sudhaile\n\nStephen Bar Sudhaile was a Syrian mystical writer who flourished about the end of the 5th century AD.\n\nThe earlier part of his career was passed at Edessa, of which he may have been a native. He afterwards removed to Jerusalem, where he lived as a monk and endeavoured to make converts to his peculiar doctrines, both by teaching among the community there and by letters to his former friends at Edessa. He was the author of commentaries on the Bible and other theological works. Two of his eminent contemporaries Jacob of Serugh (451-521) and Philoxenus of Mabbogh (d. 523), wrote letters in condemnation of his teaching. His two main theses which they attacked were (1) the limited duration of the future punishment of sinners, (2) the pantheistic doctrine that all nature is consubstantial with the Divine essence that the whole universe has emanated from God, and will in the end return to and be absorbed in him.\n\nThe fame of Stephen as a writer rests on his identification with the author of a treatise which survives in a single Syriac manuscript (\"Brit. Mus. Add. MSS.\" 7189, written mainly in the 13th century), The book of Hierotheus on the hidden mysteries of the house of God. The work claims to have been composed in the 1st century AD, by a certain Hierotheus who was the disciple of Saint Paul and the teacher of Dionysius the Areopagite. But, like the works which pass under the name of Dionysius, it is undoubtedly pseudonymous, and most Syriac writers who mention it attribute it to Stephen. The author of the \"Book of Hierotheus\" is sometimes referred to as Pseudo-Hierotheus as his follower, Dionysius the Areopagite, is called Pseudo-Dionysius the Areopagite to differentiate them from the biblical figures.\n\nAn interesting discussion and summary of the book have been given by AL Frothingham (\"Stephen bar Sudhaili\", Leiden, 1886), but the text was not edited until F. S. Marsh's edition of 1927. From Frothingham's analysis we learn that the work consists of five books; after briefly describing the origin of the world by emanation from the Supreme Good it is mainly occupied with the description of the stages by which the mind returns to union with God, who finally becomes all in all. To describe the contents in a few words: at the beginning we find the statement regarding absolute existence, and the emanation from primordial essence of the spiritual and material universes: then comes, what occupies almost the entire work, the experience of the mind in search of perfection during this life. Finally comes the description of the various phases of existence as the mind rises into complete union with, and ultimate absorption into, the primitive essence. The keynote to the experience of the mind is its absolute identification with Christ; but the son finally resigns the kingdom unto the Father, and all distinct existence comes to an end, being lost in the chaos of the Good (Frothingham, p. 92).\n\nOne of the most curious features of the work is the skill with which the language of the Bible is pressed into the service of pantheistic speculation. In this and other respects the book harmonizes well with the picture of Stephens teaching afforded by the letter of Philoxenus to the Edessene priests Abraham and Orestes (Frothingham, pp. 28–48). The \"Book of Hierotheus\" is probably an original Syriac work, and not translated from Greek. Its relation to the Pseudo-Dionysian literature is a difficult question; probably Frothingham (p. 83) goes too far in suggesting that it was prior to all the pseudo-Dionysian writings (cf. Ryssel in \"Zeitschrift für Kirchengeschichte\").\n\nThe unique manuscript in which the \"Book of Hierotheus\" survives furnishes along with its text the commentary made upon it by Theodosius, patriarch of Antioch (887–896), who appears to have sympathized with its teaching. A rearrangement and abridgment of the work was made by the great Monophysite author Bar-Hebraeus (1226–1286), who expunged or garbled much of its unorthodox teaching. The copy that he used is the manuscript which now survives in the British Museum.\n"}
{"id": "1988936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988936", "title": "Joseph Adams (mercenary)", "text": "Joseph Adams (mercenary)\n\nJoe S. Adams, Jr. is an American private investigator and former mercenary who trained the forces of, and acted as a bodyguard for, Adolfo Calero, one of the leaders of the Contra rebellion in Nicaragua. In his 1988 trial in Florida for violations of the Neutrality Act, Adams was accused of having done so on behalf of the United States Central Intelligence Agency. Adams was the first person indicted in Iran-Contra, was convicted, sentenced to one day of unsupervised probation and a $50.00 fine, and then pardoned. Adams has been the subject of over 100 newspaper articles as well as November 3, 1986 Newsweek article. Adams has also been featured in mercenary magazines such as Eagle and Soldier of Fortune.\n\nA former member of the United States Marine Corps, Adams has also worked as a mercenary and security consultant in Southeast Asia, Africa, and Europe. He currently operates Adams Investigations in St. Louis, Missouri and has worked numerous high-profile cases there, including the capture of an FBI Top Ten Most-Wanted Fugitive.\n\nAdams is a former bodybuilder and powerlifter who appeared in several of Joe Weider's publications in the 1970s, and appeared in shoots with former California governor Arnold Schwarzenegger. \n\nIn the 1980s, Adams was the subject of controversy in the St. Louis area when, acting as a bounty hunter, a prisoner in his custody died from the effects of a stun gun.\n\n"}
{"id": "1988945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1988945", "title": "List of Scottish representative peers", "text": "List of Scottish representative peers\n\nThis is a list of representative peers elected from the Peerage of Scotland to sit in the House of Lords after the Acts of Union 1707 abolished the Parliament of Scotland, where, as a unicameral legislature, all Scottish Peers had been entitled to sit.\n\nFrom 1707 to 1963 there were sixteen Scottish representative peers, all elected from among the peerage of Scotland to sit for one parliament. After each dissolution of parliament, a new election of representative peers from Scotland took place, although the Irish representative peers held their seats in parliament for life.\n\nUnder the Peerage Act 1963 which came into effect in August that year, all Scottish peers were given seats in the House of Lords as of right, thus after that date no further Scottish representative peers were needed.\n\n"}
