{"id": "2000294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000294", "title": "Edwardsburgh/Cardinal", "text": "Edwardsburgh/Cardinal\n\nEdwardsburgh/Cardinal is a township in the United Counties of Leeds and Grenville of eastern Ontario, Canada. Edwardsburgh township was first surveyed in 1783, and incorporated in 1850. The township was part of the historical Grenville County before it merged with Leeds County to form the United Counties in the 19th century.\n\nThe Township of Edwardsburgh/Cardinal was formed on January 1, 2001, through the amalgamation of Edwardsburgh Township with the Village of Cardinal.\n\nIt is a historical community with many old homes and buildings; including one-room school houses, grist mills, and churches. It is situated along the Saint Lawrence Seaway/River and extends back into rural hamlets. Both Highway 416 and Highway 401 pass through the township, as well as the South Nation River.\n\nThe township's main population centres are Cardinal, Johnstown, and Spencerville. The township's administrative offices are located in Spencerville.\n\nEdwardsburgh/Cardinal's southern boundary is the Saint Lawrence River's shore. To the west, the township ends at the boundary for Augusta Township and to the east is the neighbouring United Counties of Stormont, Dundas and Glengarry. To the north of the township is the township of North Grenville. The township covers an area of . The township belongs to the Great Lakes–Saint Lawrence lowlands region.\n\nDespite the township's proximity to the Saint Lawrence River, only ten percent of the area's water drains into the Saint Lawrence, and ninety percent drains into the South Nation River. The flow of the South Nation River through this area is described as very sluggish with poor drainage, due to the fact there is little drop in elevation along the river; this leads to the formation of bogs and swamps, and also makes the area prone to seasonal flooding. The north-west section of the township is known as the Groveton Bog, and to the east is known as the Hellgate Swamp. The soils in the area range from sandy and dry, to dark and acidic closer to the swamp areas.\n\nThe majority of the township is covered in only a very thin layer of soil, in spite of this, there are very few rock outcrops in the area. The only notable outcrop within the township is along the Saint Lawrence river in New Wexford. None of the bedrock in the township contains phosphates, metalliferous ores, mica or anything else of notable value; the sands in the area are also of little value as they are too silty and fine to be used as building material. There is, however, a high concentration of stones in much of the local soil, making it suitable for gravel. The area had a few limestone quarries, but the output of these quarries were small and only used locally.\n\nUp until the 18th century, the land was covered with thick, mature, mixed forests. The original forest was almost completely cleared throughout the years and the forest that stands today is mostly secondary growth over previously cleared land. The forests in the area presently contain numerous types of deciduous, oak, birch, ash and maple trees. The common coniferous trees in the area include many types of pine and cedar as well as balsam fir and white spruce. In the darker, acidic soils around the bogs and swamps there are tamarack trees, as well as juniper and black spruce. Wild grape, Virginia creeper, and other woody vines are native to the area.\n\nAccording to archaeologists, the earliest human activity in the area surrounding Edwardsburgh/Cardinal can be traced back to approximately 11,000 years ago, after the retreat of a glacier first made the land inhabitable; this era is known as the Paleo-Indian period.\n\nNumerous stone arrowheads have been excavated within the region and can be traced to the Clovis people, as well as the Plano people. Although no habitation sites have been discovered within the township boundaries, it is suggested that these cultures must have hunted in the Edwardsburgh/Cardinal area during this time. The Clovis arrows found within the region vary greatly, and reflect thousands of years of the Clovis people's progression and a changing environment. The earlier weapons were short dart-points, while two to three thousand years later, the Clovis people were mostly carving stone spear-points. This is indicative of an increase in larger game animals migrating into the area. There is little evidence of these cultures ever existing, as their footprint on the land was virtually invisible, and the population density during this period was very low. No human remains have survived from this time period making it impossible to determine the physical appearance of the cultures.\n\nThe period following the Paleo-Indian Period was known as the Archaic Period. From 5000-1000 BCE the eastern Ontario region was dominated by the Laurentian Archaic people, who were direct descendants of the Plano people. This culture was far more sophisticated than its ancestors; a result of a warmer climate and the emergence of modern flora and fauna. Current archaeological findings cannot show us any evidence as to how the culture housed or sheltered themselves. Although their diet consisted of mostly fish and plants, the Laurentians were also big game hunters of deer, elk, and even bear. In contrast to their ancestors who used rough, chipped stone tools, the Laurentians are known to have used polished stone tools for hunting and woodworking.\n\nExcavations of human remains revealed they were a violent culture; humans remains from this period have been found to be decapitated, have skull fractures or stone projectiles embedded into the bones. These excavations also suggested that the Laurentian Archaic people were a ritualized culture as some of their dead were sprinkled with red ochre and a wide range of goods, which also presumably represented status within the culture. Some of the goods and artifacts found buried alongside the Laurentians were not native to the area, meaning they must have traded goods frequently with other people. It is likely that the decapitated or otherwise brutalized remains are those of outside traders who threatened or attacked the Laurentian Archaic people.\n\nIn 1673, the French, working with indigenous tribes from the area, built a storehouse on Old Breeches River, now known as Johnstown Creek. This storehouse was used to hold supplies en route to upriver trading posts such as Fort Frontenac (now, Kingston) until 1758. In 1759, The French settlers built Fort de Lévis on Chimney Island, in the Saint Lawrence River just off of Johnstown, between it and Ogdensburg. The purpose of this fort was to protect the Saint Lawrence River from the British. It was captured by Major-General Jeffrey Amherst in August 1760 during the Battle of the Thousand Islands. The island on which the fort once stood was permanently flooded during the construction of the Saint Lawrence Seaway.\n\nIn the late 1700s, most of the Loyalists upon their arrival to the area were farmers, and did not see formal education as a valuable or important thing. In 1787, three years after their arrival, more privileged Loyalists began to petition for a school to be built in each district, to teach mathematics, arithmetic, English and Latin. Finally, in the early 1800s, the government of Upper Canada passed The Common School Act of 1816, which allowed for a common school to be built in every district where at least 20 students would attend. It would then be the township's responsibility to divide itself into School Sections based upon the locations of the congregated pupils. The Act distributed grants of £25 to schools that met the requirements to pay for a teacher's salary. Although this Act showed promise for the township, the Act did not supply funds for building materials or labour for schools to be built, thus few schools managed to be established early on.\n\nIn the 1840s, further school related Acts were passed that led to vast improvement of the Common School education system in Edwardsburgh/Cardinal. By 1845, the superintendent for the Edwardsburgh district recorded 20 schools operating in the area with 755 children registered as students. In the 1850s, the township began to consider building separate schools in lieu of Common Schools, however these schools more expensive for the township to open due to a higher taxation on separate schools. When another Act went into effect in the mid-1850s, the common and separate schools levelled in price, as the double taxation on separate schools ended. This led to the first separate school being erected in 1855.\n\nIn total, about 28 single-room separate schools were registered in the township of Edwardsburgh/Cardinal. The separate schools were phased out after bigger, newer schools were built in the larger villages and pupils started being transported there instead. Many of the structures are still standing and have been converted into private homes. The following is a list of some of these schools and their names:\n\nCurrently, the township's schools belong to the Upper Canada District School Board. There are only three schools still operating within the township boundaries: Benson Public School in Cardinal, South-Edwardsburgh Public School in Johnstown, and Centennial '67 Public School in Spencerville. All of these schools are elementary schools; for high school, students have the option of either South Grenville District High School in Prescott, or North Grenville District High School in Kemptville, both of which are located in close proximity to the township. For Catholic schools, students from Edwardsburgh/Cardinal may attend St. Mark Catholic School in Prescott or St. Mary-St. Cecilia Catholic School in Morrisburg; as these are the closest elementary schools to the township under the Catholic District School Board of Eastern Ontario. The closest Catholic high school to the township is St. Michael Catholic High School located in Kemptville. Elementary students also have the option of attending St. Lawrence Academy, located in Prescott, which is a private school that focuses on Christian values. The nearest post-secondary school to the township is the St. Lawrence College campus located in Brockville. For adult schools and continuing education, residents of Edwardsburgh/Cardinal have the option of attending a TR Leger School campus located in Prescott.\n\nIn 2011 according to the National Household Survey, of 5,060 adults (persons over 25 years of age) in the township, 53.8% had obtained some form of post-secondary education; 13.8% having a university degree, and an additional 27.4% having a college diploma, and 12.5% having a trades certificate. 27.1% of the township's adult population reported a high school diploma being the highest level of education attainment, and 19.3% reported having neither a high school nor a post-secondary diploma or degree. Within Edwardsburgh/Cardinal, the percentage of seniors (ages 65+) with post-secondary credentials was 42.4% and the percentage of seniors without any credentials was 40.3%. The percentage of adults (ages 25–44) with post-secondary credentials was about 20% higher, at 62.5%; the percentage of adults without post-secondary credentials was significantly lower than the percentage of seniors, with only 10.4% having not attained any certifications.\n\nThe most common field of study in Edwardsburgh/Cardinal is business, management or marketing. In the year 2011, of the 2,720 residents aged 25 or older who had obtained a post-secondary education, 86.2% had attended school within in Ontario, 9.6% had studied in another province or territory and 4.2% had studied outside Canada.\n\nCardinal is a village located in the township of Edwardsburgh/Cardinal. Prior to being incorporated in 1878, the village was referred to by numerous names, including: Edwardsburgh, Point Cardinal, Munro's Point, Elgin, and Port Elgin. Situated along the Saint Lawrence River, between the towns of Iroquois to the east and Johnstown to the west, Cardinal has approximately one thousand residents. During the late 1700s, Hugh Munro acquired land at the site which would later become Cardinal. Upon seeing the Galops rapids, Munro saw potential for water power, which could become profitable. According to General Simcoe's documents, by 1794 Munro had established a saw and grist mill on his property. By 1864, Cardinal's business concerns included the McLatchie foundry and the Canada Starch Works.\n\nThe village of Cardinal was founded by Captain Hugh Munro in the late 1700s. Many unfortunate events in Munro's life led to his settlement in Cardinal. After the death of his Major, Munro was held responsible for large debts incurred by supplying the soldiers with necessities. After joining the Loyalists, Munro was injured in the American Revolutionary War and saddled with more debt after supplying troops out of pocket. Munro petitioned the government for compensation, and it is believed he was granted the land in present-day Cardinal as a result. The land at Cardinal had much potential in the 1700s due to the adjacent river and the construction of Ontario Highway 2 through the village in 1790. The river provided a means of transportation and power while the highway led to increased traffic to the area, as it was the primary route between Montreal and Kingston. By 1794, Munro had constructed a saw and grist mill which the community subsequently grew around.\n\nIn the early-1800s, Cardinal began to grow as a village as more settlers arrived and businesses began operations. Another sawmill and a general store were established. A large dock was built for a timber business, which shipped timber on rafts to Montreal. In 1843, the village's post office was erected. Before the Galop Canal was constructed in 1846, early settlers earned an income hauling boats through the rapids. Some residents relied on agriculture for their income, and maintained family farms.\n\nBy the mid-19th century Cardinal began to develop further, as the Galop Canal had been fully constructed to allow easy passage through the rapids and a Grand Trunk Railway line was laid through the community, connecting it with Toronto. A train station was built shortly after the tracks were laid, called Edwardsburg Station. By 1851, the population had grown to around 120 individuals. Several businesses opened mid-century, including three more general stores, a blacksmith, a tailor, a gunsmith, two shoemakers, a cloth factory, a library, a carpentry shop and two inns. Additionally, this period was the beginning of the Canada Starch Company.\n\nDuring the late-1800s, the community prospered further, as more businesses opened and the population steadily increased. In 1871, the population had reached 300. By the 1870s, the village was home to an additional three general stores, a machinist, a milliner, two blacksmiths, eight tradesmen, five churches, a carriage shop, a doctor and a telegraph operator in addition to its original businesses and tradespeople. In 1878, the village was officially incorporated and renamed Cardinal.\n\nBy 1895, the population of Cardinal had reached 1,000. New businesses at this time included a drug store, three barbers, a bakery, a jewellery shop, a cheese factory, a butcher shop, an undertaker and several others.\n\nThe first public school in Cardinal, built around 1843, was a two-storey frame building originally standing at the corner of First and Henry Street. This school was later moved to the corner of New and James Street. Although it is unclear when the school closed, the building was used by the Canada Starch Company as a storehouse before becoming a duplex in 1891, as it remains in 2016. During the mid-1800s, there were two additional one-room log schoolhouses operating in Cardinal, one at the west end of the village and one about a mile east of the village. The exact years of their operation are unknown.\n\nIn 1872, the first schools were replaced by a two-room brick structure along Dundas Street, called Dundas Street Public School. As enrolment increased, a frame building was constructed west of the brick school to house the younger children. This school served as both an elementary and continuation school until 1911, when a separate continuation school was erected due to overcrowding.\n\nThe first continuation school opened in 1911, and was located on First Street. The building was a stable which was renovated into a school. This structure served as the continuation school until 1921, when a home once belonging to the prominent Benson family was sold and turned over to the school board. The school was known as Cardinal High School, and operated into the early 1950s. After its closure, the school was left boarded up and abandoned for a period of time before an accidental fire destroyed the building.\n\nAs the population increased and transportation improved, one and two-room schoolhouses were largely phased out in favour of larger, modern schools. In 1949, Cardinal became home to a modern public elementary school named Benson Public School in honour of a prominent village family. By 1959, four more classrooms were built. The school had its highest number of enrolment in the late 1960s with 400 pupils attending. Benson Public School closed in 2017.\n\nAs of 2016, Cardinal is home to five active churches: a Presbyterian, United, Anglican, Roman Catholic and Pentecostal Church. Three other churches were once located in the village throughout its history, all of which were Methodist churches. These churches were the Wesleyan-Methodist Church, the Episcopal Methodist Church, and the Free Methodist Church.\n\nThe first Presbyterian church was constructed in 1826, slightly north of the site of the current Presbyterian church on Dundas Street. The Presbyterian congregation had existed for a year prior to the church's construction. The first church was a small, stone church with only one room. In 1877, the church was replaced by a larger brick building complete with a spire. In 1911, the church caught fire after being struck by lightning, and the spire was destroyed and replaced with the current tower. At the church's centennial in 1925 the building was renovated and given the name St. Andrew's Presbyterian. In 1967 the church in Mainsville amalgamated with St. Andrew's becoming St. Andrew's and St. James’ Presbyterian Church. An addition was added to the church in 1997. As of 2016, this church is still in use.\n\nThe first St. Paul's Anglican Church building was located along Highway 2, east of the village. The stone church was constructed around 1827 and was then known as St. Paul's Edwardsburgh. The land surrounding the church became a designated cemetery shortly following construction. In 1872, the building was deemed unsafe and was replaced at a new location, the corner of John and New Street. The old church was demolished, and the stones were used to erect a stone cairn on the site which it once stood. The new brick church was built with a parish hall. In 1958, an addition was added to the hall. As of 2016, this church is still in use.\n\nThe Sacred Heart Roman Catholic Church was built in 1875 on land donated by G.W. Benson. The church is located on the northeast corner of John and Middle Street. The building was designed by James Dowsley, measuring and constructed of brick. In 1923, the church became a parish, and a rectory was purchased. The church has gone many renovations since its construction, most of which being repairs or modernizations. In 1992, the church purchased a nearby home and demolished it in order to construct a new rectory and church office on site. As of 2016, this church is still in use.\n\nThe Methodist congregation in Cardinal has been represented under a variety of names. The first Methodist churches were Episcopal Methodist and Wesleyan-Methodist churches, both constructed of stone. The Episcopal church was built on Dundas Street in 1851 and the Wesleyan-Methodist was located a mile west of the village on Highway 2. In 1883, the two Methodist congregations amalgamated, and a new church was needed to accommodate the new, larger congregation. Ten years later, in 1893, the church was constructed of red brick along Dundas Street. In 1925, the church became known as St. John's United Church after entering into a church union. This church is still in use.\n\nSome members of the Wesleyan-Methodist church became the Holiness Movement Church around 1900, and a new frame church was built in 1910 for the congregation. In 1956, a granite block building was built at the corner of Gill Street and Shanly Road to replace the frame church. In 1959, the Holiness Movement Church became the Free Methodist Church after a church union. This church operated into the late 1990s; after its closure it was converted into apartments.\n\nIn 1934, Cardinal became home to a Pentecostal congregation. Church meetings were held in a variety of locations before a church was constructed along Highway 2 during the late-1990s. The Pentecostal congregation met at the Orange Hall, followed by the local machine shop before purchasing the former telephone office on Dundas Street in 1941. Land was purchased by the congregation in 1997 to become the site of a new church. The purchased lot was the site of an apple orchard which the congregation tended to; the apples were sold to raise money for the church's construction. The church, called the Philadelphia Pentecostal Tabernacle, is still in operation as of 2016.\n\nCardinal is home to a total of six denominational cemeteries, two of which are no longer in use. Outside the village to the east are four cemeteries sitting on lots next to one another; these cemeteries are Roman Catholic, Anglican, Methodist and Presbyterian. The other two cemeteries are the old Presbyterian and Methodist cemeteries, located behind the Presbyterian Church within the village.\n\nThe old Presbyterian Cemetery located within the village was established in 1827 and was also used by Methodists. In the mid-1880s, a ship carrying immigrants arrived in the area which had experienced a cholera epidemic on board; numerous immigrants were buried in the southern part of the cemetery in an unmarked area who died shortly after their arrival. In 1897, the cemetery was closed and relocated when the canal to the north of the cemetery was dug. Many of the bodies and stones from the old cemetery were relocated to the new cemetery, and many unmarked graves were discovered in the process and also moved. A few graves still remain on site.\n\nThe relocated Presbyterian and Methodist cemeteries are located east of the village of Cardinal along Highway 2 and the Saint Lawrence River. The Methodist and Presbyterian congregations split on the purchase of a lot of land to be used as two new cemeteries in 1897 when the old cemetery was closed. The cemeteries are divided by a gravel driveway down the centre of the lot. After the 1920s, the Methodist Cemetery became known as the United Church Cemetery. These cemeteries are both still in use.\n\nThe Anglican Cemetery was established in 1827, upon the construction of the former Anglican church on Highway 2 along the Saint Lawrence River. In the mid-1880s, some of the bodies from the aforementioned cholera epidemic were buried behind the cemetery's vault. In 1891, the cemetery vault was presented to the Anglican church by W.T. Benson, with an agreement that any revenue coming from the vault be used to benefit the church or cemetery. The vault was used by all Cardinal's congregations. The Anglican Cemetery is still in use as of 2016.\n\nThe Roman Catholic cemetery, known as Sacred Heart Cemetery, was erected in 1892. Prior to this, Roman Catholics were buried in nearby Prescott or Dixon's Corners. The cemetery is located along Highway 2 and the Saint Lawrence River, between the Anglican cemetery and the Presbyterian and Methodist cemeteries. As of 2016, this cemetery is still in use.\n\nThe Saint Lawrence river in Cardinal is home to two sunken ships which are popular dive sites for tourists and locals. Both shipwrecks are also visible from land, as the water is shallow enough that both ships are partially exposed above the water. was an iron-clad, wooden steam freighter built in Cleveland in the 19th century, and launched on July 6, 1878. The ship was around in length with a speed of . \"Conestoga\" was awaiting passage through lock 28 at the Galop Canal on May 22, 1922, when a fire broke out in the engine room. All passengers managed to escape and the ship's cargo was also salvaged, however the ship itself was flushed downstream from the locks where it eventually sank about from the shoreline. \"Conestoga\" rests at a depth of only , with the top portion of the steeple engine protruding above the river. According to divers, the wooden portions of the \"Conestoga\" site are well preserved, however the top portions of metal are badly ice-damaged and rusted, and are quickly deteriorating. Looters and \"wreck-stripping\" has apparently caused significant damage to the site, and a blade from \"Conestoga\"s propeller was broken off by a dynamite blast during a salvage attempt gone wrong.\n\"Weehawk\" was launched out of Camden, New Jersey, on December 12, 1926, where it operated as a ferry along the New England coast for many years. \"Weehawk\" was long and could carry around 500 passengers as well as around 30 cars. Eventually the boat was moved to the lock at Galop Canal in the 1960s, where it was purchased along with its sister ship by a local welder who had the intention of disassembling them both and selling the metal as scrap. A family tragedy prevented the welder from ever completing the deconstruction of both ships and the abandoned \"Weehawk\" eventually sank to the bottom of the canal. All that remains of the ship is half of its hull which is tipped over onto its side, with part of its skeleton sticking out above the water.\n\nTwo less popular dive sites are also commonly associated with the Edwardsburgh/Cardinal township, SS \"Ralph T. Holcomb\", and \"Fleur Marie\". Apparently just east of Cardinal, the hull of SS \"Ralph T. Holcomb\" lies in the old canal bank. This ship was purchased by the Canada Starch Company for hauling coal sometime in the early 1900s before it was sunk. \"Fleur Marie\" was built in Quebec in 1850 and was later left abandoned at the docks in Prescott. The abandoned ship was considered an eyesore amongst locals and eventually caught fire, leading to the ship to be scuttled in of water off the shore of Windmill Point in 1883, where it still currently sits. Although \"Fleur Marie\" is associated with the area, it is actually located within American waters.\n\nThe Galop Canal was opened in 1846 and was used until the 1950s. The canal allowed ships to bypass the rapids of the Saint Lawrence River near Cardinal and Iroquois. Construction began in 1844, and was done without machinery, but instead by use of hand tools such as axes, wheelbarrows, and shovels. The men worked for around 14 hours and were paid 50 cents each day. In 1897 new locks were built along the canal. Some parts of the canal reached in length and were the longest in Canada at the time. In the 1950s the Saint Lawrence Seaway was created and new locks were built in Iroquois for large, ocean-going ships. Present day, Galop Canal is a popular location amongst locals for swimming and picnics, as well as diving. The wreck of \"Weehawk\" is located in Lock 27 at Galop Canal; divers are able to view this site and drift with the current of the Saint Lawrence River to the nearby \"Conestoga\" dive site.\n\nThe township of Edwardsburgh/Cardinal is dotted with many old, rural hamlets and communities, most of which date back to the early 1800s. Most of these hamlets are tiny and only ever had a few farms and less than twenty businesses. The communities of Brouseville, New Wexford, Crystal Rock, Ventnor, Hyndman, Mainsville, Groveton, Campbell's Corners, McCarley's Corners, The Island, McReynolds, Pittston, Van Allens, Glen Smail and Shanly are all a part of Edwardsburgh/Cardinal. Each hamlet usually had its own schoolhouse, cheese factory, and churches; many had their own general stores, burial grounds, as well as grist or saw mills.\n\nBrouseville, Ontario is a small rural hamlet located approximately north of Cardinal. The central location of the hamlet is the intersection of Brouseville Road and County Road 22. Brouseville extends easterly to the township boundary, and Kain Road is considered to be the southern boundary of the community. Brouseville, formerly known as Bolton's Corners, was renamed in 1872 after Dr. William H. Brouse, a local travelling physician. Brouse took over the South Grenville seat in the 1872 federal election which prompted residents to change the name in his honour.\n\nBrouseville was settled many years later than neighbouring settlements of similar size; until the mid-1800s, the community consisted of solely homesteads or farms established by a handful of families. At this time, the community was called Bolton's Corners after the Bolton family, a notably large family who were amongst the first to settle here. By the 1860s, Brouseville became a thriving community with many businesses in operation typical of the era; Brouseville had a hotel, a jewellery store, four grocery stores, a pump shop, a blacksmith, as well as a carriage repair shop in operation. By the late 1800s, a post office had been established.\n\nSporting events became popular with the creation of an outdoor \"arena\", operated and maintained by locals. Brouseville organized its own hockey team, as well as a soccer and softball team, which competed against the teams of neighbouring communities. These events were highly organized and results were reported by local media.\n\nIn 1870, William Anderson constructed a horse-racing track on his property in Brouseville. Anderson was a well-respected horse trader who raised thoroughbreds and offered training at his track until 1900. Frank James, brother of outlaw Jesse James, frequented this horse track and maintained a friendship with Anderson; James was a regular customer, buying several horses from Anderson over the years and staying at his home during his visits.\n\nA notable piece of architecture belonging to the hamlet was an octagon house that once stood on Byers Road. The house was believed to have been built by a \"Mr. Wright\" in 1873, following the fad of octagonal houses built in the United States. The house remained abandoned for many years after it was purchased by the Land Bank. Numerous efforts were made to have the distinctive house designated a heritage building in order to preserve it, however the outcry was largely ignored. On October 31, 1995, the house was destroyed by fire and later completely demolished.\n\nBy the end of the 1800s, Brouseville remained largely unchanged; the same businesses were still in operation with the addition of a long distance telephone line constructed by the Bell Telephone Company of Canada. In 1904, a manager was appointed and an office was built where the community could make or receive long-distance phone calls; residential phones were unavailable in Brouseville until later.\n\nIn the early 1900s, Brouseville established its first school, fairly late into its settlement. Prior to this, students had to travel long distances to neighbouring communities. Residents of the community demanded their own school section but were met with opposition from neighbouring schools, which relied on the revenue provided by Brouseville taxpayers. In 1905, Brouseville was finally designated its own school section, #6; the school was dubbed S.S. #6 Brouseville School. A red brick schoolhouse, modern for the time, was built on the southeast corner of the community's main intersection. The school contained a basement, large furnace, and seating for 50 pupils. The school remained open until 1971 during which time schoolhouses were phased out in favour of larger schools. The schoolhouse in Brouseville became a multi-purpose building, used after school hours as both a church and community hall. Numerous social gatherings were organized and held in the schoolhouse from quilting bees and box socials to concerts and live music. After the school's closure, the building remained in use as a community building before it was sold to become a private residence.\n\nBrouseville saw a steady decline in business into the mid-1900s when improved infrastructure and technology ended the necessity of small, self-sustaining communities. Currently, the village of Brouseville has no businesses located within its boundaries and is largely a residential community. Despite the closure of every business, the population of Brouseville has been continuously increasing since the start of settlement. In recent years, new homes have been sporadically built within the community of Brouseville.\n\nCampbell's Corners, Ontario, is the name given to a small settlement located close to the community of Hyndman. The community was originally called Campbell's Mills, as the settlement was formed around a mill established by a Hector Campbell, whose family was one of the first to settle the area in the early 1800s. Campbell's Corners was most prosperous during the mid-to-late 19th century when pioneer industries like mills could thrive; during this time, the mill attracted settlement and immigration, and an agricultural community grew around the milling industry.\n\nDuring the 19th century, the Campbell family operated a large sawmill, producing shingles, lumber, and boxes for the local cheese factories as well as containing a separate gristmill; the mill, operated by steam engine, employed around six individuals – four adults and two younger individuals – with wages around $700 annually. Early into the settlement, a small burying ground was established on a local farm; few details are known about its use and the grave markers were removed over half a century ago.\n\nBy the mid-1800s, the community still had few businesses of its own apart from the mills, and instead relied on neighbouring communities for most services; the only other business recorded as being in operation in Campbell's Corners was a general store, which is said to have operated briefly at the end of the century. Residents of Campbell's Corners would have used the post office and cheese factory in Hyndman, and travelled to other communities for additional services. Residents who were not employed by the mill sustained themselves through farming operations or by working in construction for the railway.\n\nIn the 1840s prior to the designation of school sections, a school was built between Hyndman and Campbell's Corners. The first schoolhouse was constructed of log, and a decade after its construction had fallen into disrepair. By 1852, the community had been designated as a school section which was shared with Hyndman, known as S.S. #17. The log schoolhouse was replaced by a frame structure with brick veneer built at a cost of $430 including the land purchase; the school was referred to as S.S. #17 Campbell's Mills School. When the school was rebuilt, it was also relocated further west along Hyndman Road at the corner of the road leading to the Campbell family's mill. In 1875, Hyndman and Campbell's Corners were divided into two school sections; Campbell's Mills School remained S.S. #17 and used the existing schoolhouse, while Hyndman became S.S. #23 and required a new school. In 1914, S.S. #17 underwent minor renovations inside and outside; the structure was covered with clapboard and the furniture and interior floor were replaced. In 1964, the school closed due to lack of enrolment caused by improvements in transportation and the construction of larger, modern schools nearby.\n\nIn 1880, the mill at Campbell's Corners was destroyed by fire; however, it was promptly rebuilt with the efforts of the entire community. In 1914, the building was destroyed a second time, again by a fire which also destroyed a barn and two homes located on the property; the mill was not rebuilt at this time, as the industry was in steady decline. With the closure of the mills and the general store, Campbell's Corners became a completely residential community by the mid-20th century. Presently the community still consists entirely of private homes, some of which are modern, having being built overtop of old farms.\n\nCrystal Rock, Ontario is a community located along County Road 44, directly north of Johnstown. The settlement was first called Gore's Hill, then Limekiln before being changed to Crystal Rock in the 1900s. The land was first surveyed for Loyalist settlement by Edward Jessup in 1784 however it was predominately Irish immigrants who settled and established the community. Before 1784, the land was occupied by many small First Nations communities. Largely forced out by the Europeans, the few aboriginals who stayed in Crystal Rock traded handmade goods with the early settlers. Clay beads, bowls and pipes were commonly found scattered throughout the land.\n\nIn the early 1800s, land at Crystal Rock was slowly doled out to disbanded Loyalists as grants. Early landholders cleared the lots of timber and shipped it to Montreal for profit with no intention of settlement. The timber trade ceased in 1820 and Crystal Rock was abandoned. Settlement began at Crystal Rock in the 1830s with an influx of Irish immigrants. Few settlers received clear title to the land they occupied as much of it was clergy reserve land. Some opted to become tenants while others simply squatted. The land in Crystal Rock is sandy with large limestone outcroppings making traditional farming difficult. Wheat, hops and rye became staple crops, being the most productive and easily sold to nearby breweries and distilleries. Many settlers sought employment outside of agriculture, working as labourers during the construction of the canals and railways or as rivermen.\n\nDuring the 1830s, the Gore family established a large homestead at the intersection of County Road 44 and Brouseville Road. Gore's farm was of the first in the area and included lime pits and a limekiln. The prominent farm led to the community's early designation of Gore's Hill and inspired the construction of numerous other limekilns which the settlement became known and named for. At night the light of the kilns was allegedly visible from a distance creating the illusion the area was glowing.\n\nAround 1840, the first schoolhouse was built from logs on property owned by a Daniel Mills. Prior to this a teacher tutored children from their home for a fee. Sunday school was held here after hours for Methodist and Anglican congregations until the 1850s. When the township split into school sections, Crystal Rock was designated section #8 and the school was recorded as ‘Common School S.S. #8’. In 1865, records indicate a section of land was sold to school trustees by Joseph Dyer for unspecified school use, on which was a log schoolhouse. Records are unclear as to whether the land was sold to extend the grounds of the existing school, or if the building was a newly constructed replacement. By 1865, the school was referred to by S.S. #8 Limekiln School. In 1870, a local man was hired to build a stone schoolhouse to replace the log building with a toilet and woodshed on the premises. In the 1880s the school's well water was deemed unsafe after many students fell ill. The unsanitary conditions of the school were attributed to the deaths of a few pupils in 1909. The toilets were then demolished and the school was cleaned and repaired. The school closed by 1961 and was sold to the church before becoming a private residence, as it remains today.\n\nBy the 1850s around were being cultivated by the community and two taverns had opened. In 1868, a Loyal Orange Lodge group built an Orange Hall which also held Anglican and Methodist services before churches were built. The frame hall was later used as a community meeting hall. By the late-1800s, Crystal Rock was a thriving farming community home to numerous pioneer industries. Tradesmen including a blacksmith, shoemaker, mechanic, cooper and two carpenters, one of whom solely constructed coffins, serviced the community. A shingle and a cheese factory were constructed. The cheese factory was built in 1884 at the corner of Brouseville Road by a trio of locals. The factory, called Thompson's Cheese Factory #5 after one of its owners, was later upgraded to produce butter.\n\nThe community established two churches along County Road 44 by the late-1800s to service pre-existing Anglican and Methodist congregations. Crystal Rock also had a Roman Catholic congregation which was too small to support a church and instead held services in local homes. In 1877 the Limekiln Methodist Church was built with volunteer labour and donated materials. The dark-yellow frame church held bi-weekly services and a weekly Sunday school. In 1916 the church was painted blue and windows from a church dismantled in Roebuck replaced the originals. Limekiln Methodist closed and became a private home in 1930 after amalgamating with Spencerville. The Anglican church was constructed of brick in 1881 and called St. James’ Anglican Church. This church remained active for over a century. The church owned the schoolhouse for many years after its closure using it as a parish hall. In the 1990s a new parish hall was built.\n\nCrystal Rock never had a formal cemetery, however upon the Europeans’ arrival two First Nations burial sites were discovered in the area. Oral histories suggest there may be at least two unmarked family cemeteries from the 1800s. According to local lore, corroborated by a dated newspaper article, one cemetery contains the graves of two girls and a local man's leg which was lost in a dynamite accident.\n\nIn the early 1900s, Crystal Rock sustained all its early businesses and trades apart from the limekilns. The last lime was produced here in 1904 and sold to Canada Starch Company (CASCO) in Cardinal. The community became Crystal Rock in 1907 when a post office opened. Postal authorities advised the community to rename itself to avoid confusion with an older settlement of Limekiln, Ontario. Residents submitted names at local meetings where the name Crystal Rock was chosen. By the 1930s all the original businesses and trades operating here had closed except for the school and one church. The Depression coupled with the obsolescence of pioneer industries ultimately led to the decline.\n\nCrystal Rock was briefly revived during the 1940s when electrical power was brought to the area. Numerous small businesses were established along County Road 44 from the late 1940s into the 1970s. In 1946 a garage and service station was constructed which sold gasoline, coal and other necessities and included a small refreshment stand. After the station closed the building became an antique shop and later a welding shop before being destroyed by arson. In the 1950s, a lumber yard and machine shop were operating. In the early 1960s the machine shop was converted into a joint garage and restaurant and a building was moved from Johnstown for a second restaurant.\n\nIn 1975, government expropriation was largely responsible for Crystal Rock's final decline. The Land Bank bought out most of the land causing many to leave. Several buildings were demolished including most of the early pioneer cabins, barns and some stone houses and the lots were left abandoned. Into the 1990s, the church, and a restaurant remained open and a horse track, gunsmith and upholstering business briefly operated. Presently, Crystal Rock consists solely of residential properties and a limestone quarry.\n\nArtist and author Thelma Cameron (October 20, 1918 – December 19, 2009) lived in Crystal Rock for most of her life. In the 1970s she turned her home in Crystal Rock into the Crystal Rock Art Room, which was a gallery for her original works. At the time of her death she had self-published three books including an autobiography and two local histories, one of which was about Crystal Rock. It was published in 1994 and titled \"Crystal Rock History (Its Rocky Twists and Turns)\". One of Cameron's paintings was presented to Queen Elizabeth II by the Town of Prescott in the 1980s during her visit to Fort Wellington.\n\nGlen Smail, Ontario is a rural community located approximately south of Spencerville along County Road 44 near its intersection with Glen Smail Road. The settlement was first called Cowdrey's Hill followed by Hunter's Settlement before receiving the name Glen Smail; Cowdrey, Hunter and Smail were all surnames of the first prominent settlers in succession. The land was first occupied in 1818 and grew to become a village by mid-century. Glen Smail was at its height in the mid-to-late 1800s when many pioneer industries, farms and businesses were active. Around 1900, the population was around 100.\n\nSettled mainly by Scottish immigrants, Glen Smail began as an agricultural community with most residents supporting themselves through family farms. By the 1850s, some pioneer businesses and trades began to operate from the village. This included a general store which sold food items, alcohol and other necessities and a steam-powered sawmill. The sawmill was notably the only of its kind during the mid-1800s in the township and could operate year-round.\n\nTwo schools operated in Glen Smail, a common school as well as a Roman Catholic separate school. The first common school was built in 1837 along County Road 44. The school was a one-room log schoolhouse, and was reportedly in bad condition throughout its operation. The school was called S.S. #11 Glen Smail School, as Glen Smail was school section number eleven in the township. In 1864, the structure was replaced by a stone schoolhouse built further south on the opposite side of the road. The school closed in 1964, as one-room schools began to be phased out, and the building was converted into a private residence.\n\nThe first Roman Catholic separate school was built around 1861. There are few records for the first separate school and little else is known about it aside from the fact it was located around half a mile south of the common school, and was open for only four years. In 1959, a new separate school was constructed on donated land called St. Mary's School. In 1963, two rooms were added onto the building to accommodate the increasing number of pupils. This school operated until 1979, after which the building was abandoned until 1982 when it was bought by the Edwardsburgh Lions Club to be used for club functions.\n\nBy the end of the 1800s, a few more businesses had opened in the village, however Glen Smail still consisted mostly of farms. In the late-1800s, new businesses included a blacksmith, cooperage, butcher, carriage shop, shoemaker and a village post office. A lime kiln was also built, which provided area farmers with a supplemental income. During the 1880s, the sawmill was closed and sold off, being converted into a cheese factory. Local farmers sold their milk to the factory, and packaging was made by the local cooperage. By 1906, the factory was called William Edgar Cheese Factory. The cheese factory closed by the 1920s, and the building was moved to Shanly to become a general store.\n\nThe community began to decline during the 20th century as pioneer industries became increasingly obsolete. When Ontario Highway 16 was constructed around 1918, more traffic came through the community. This led to the construction of a small general store and gas pumps, possibly the last businesses to be established in Glen Smail. By the 1950s, small family farms began to be less profitable due to improved infrastructure and few remained operational in the village. In the 1970s, the land was sold off to the Land Bank and many structures were subsequently demolished. As of 2016, the community consists of sparse residential properties with no businesses in operation.\n\nGroveton, Ontario, is a hamlet located north of Spencerville along County Road 44. The hamlet grew around the intersection of County Road 44 and Buckwheat Road which becomes Groveton Road immediately after the intersection. According to local histories, the community was named in the 1850s by a travelling reverend responsible for delivering the community's religious services prior to a church; the reverend is said to have stated plainly to the congregation the meeting was to be called the \"Groveton appointment\", which they later attributed to their entire settlement.\n\nIn the beginning of the 1800s the area was covered in large white pines which were quickly cleared and hauled south to Johnstown, to then be shipped to Quebec City to later become masts for British naval ships. Once the forest was cleared, the area was left with shallow, sandy soil and rocky ridges, creating terrible farm land; the early settlers quickly became dependent on buckwheat which proved to be the most productive crop or sought income in fields unrelated to agriculture. Into the early 1800s, the community began to grow; before 1850, Groveton was home to a school as well as an inn run by a Thomas King; the inn began operation around 1842 with nine rooms for rent, horse stables as well as a tavern.\n\nThe first school in Groveton was erected in 1836, prior to the designation of school sections; this school was constructed of logs and located at the community's main intersection. By 1843, a new log structure was erected on the northwest corner of the intersection to replace the first school; the schoolhouse was used after hours for church services and community meetings. Groveton became its own designated school section in the mid-1800s, known as S.S. #16, Groveton, its school was titled the same. In 1873, land was purchased to extend the school's grounds and shortly after the log building was destroyed by fire; a new stone schoolhouse was erected through volunteer labour immediately following. The school ceased operations in 1962 when more modern schools were favoured; the building was left abandoned before being purchased and converted into a home.\n\nBy the mid-1800s, Groveton was a thriving pioneer community as many residents had established typical pioneer industries or trades; records indicate a blacksmith as well as carpenters, tinsmiths, weavers, shoemakers, masons and tanners were all in operation here by 1850. In 1857, material was purchased for an Orange Lodge hall to be built in the community; prior to the hall's construction, the group had held meetings in other locations for many years.\n\nIn 1851, Groveton became home to the railway industry, when the Bytown and Prescott Railway was laid out through the western part of the settlement. Although the railway did not employ local men, it brought in workers from elsewhere who stayed and spent money in the village. When the railway was completed, a small section of lan along the track was sold to become a new railway flag station. A man named James Doyle erected a primitive boarding house along the railway which was dubbed Doyle's Station. The flag station was only active a few years before being closed by railway authorities who deemed the station unprofitable due to its location on a grade; the station resumed operations in the 1900s, briefly, after locals obtained an order from the Railway Commission to reopen.\n\nBy the end of the 19th century, the school and pioneer industries operating from Groveton were still thriving. The community was home to a post office and in 1885, local men leased land just northeast of the hamlet near the settlement of Campbell's Corners with the agreement they would establish a cheese factory there immediately. The cheese factory became known as the Groveton Cheese Factory and remained in operation until the 1930s. In 1890, a frame church was constructed at the settlement's main intersection. The church was built to serve the pre-existing Methodist congregation. The church operated until 1917, when it was permanently closed. The building was used a machine shed before being demolished.\n\nA geological survey of Groveton was conducted by a team from Ottawa around 1905, where the highest point of land between the Saint Lawrence and Ottawa Rivers was identified on property owned by a local family. A concrete marker was placed on the location as well as a tall, wooden work tower. Shortly after the tower was erected, locals began to climb the wooden structure for the view, however after it was left unmaintained for over a decade, it became both an eyesore and a safety hazard. In 1917, a six-year-old boy attempted to climb the structure, prompting locals to quickly demolish the deteriorating tower. The concrete marker still remains on site and is periodically observed by the Geodetic Survey of Canada.\n\nInto the early 1900s, Groveton became home to new businesses as pioneer industries dwindled, growing increasingly unnecessary. Many sugar bushes were in operation and blueberries were farmed from the nearby marshes to generate an income. Around the 1920s, a new inn was constructed in the community called Groveton Inn. The inn was a popular spot for local entertainment such as dances. The inn operated until the mid-century when it was converted into a home. In the 1940s, a sawmill was in operation for a few years before ceasing operations. After the 1950s, the community continued to decline with all businesses eventually ceasing operations, including the school and post office.\n\nPresently, Groveton exists as a small, rural, residential community. The look of settlement has changed greatly since the 1800s and early 1900s; many farm buildings and former businesses have been demolished, relocated, or repurposed. The community contains no businesses, and very little farming operations are established. Groveton has had very little development since the 1960s, apart from the sporadic construction of private residential dwellings.\n\nHyndman, Ontario is the name given to a settlement located in the northeast section of the township along Hyndman Road near its intersections with County Roads 22 and 44; the Petite Nation River flows through the community. The community was known by various names, including Grant's Mills and Grantville, before being referred to as Hyndman; the name Grant was given to the area by one of the first settlers, Lewis Grant, who established the first mills here in the early 1800s which a community subsequently grew around.\n\nIn the late-1700s, the land encompassing what would become Hyndman was mostly reserved as Crown land. In the 1790s, a few lots of land were divided and granted to Loyalists who sold the land on for a profit; being surrounded by reserved land they didn't view settlement as a possibility. In 1799, two lots of land were sold to a man named Allen Paterson, who petitioned the Court of Quarter Sessions after his purchase to release more Crown land for sale or lease to the Loyalists in order to encourage settlement on land which had potential. By 1803, the land Paterson had purchased was still registered in his name however a man named Lewis Grant had settled on the land, dammed the river, and established a flour and gristmill and oat kiln; allegedly these were the first mills erected on the Nation River, and the only mills on the river between Montreal and Kingston for a number of years.\n\nIn the beginning of the 1800s, new roads were laid out to make the mills at Hyndman more accessible to the township and more Crown land was leased out to Loyalists for homesteads. By the 1820s, many families were starting to construct homes and settle here after years of the land frequently changing hands. Lewis Grant's son, Daniel, had constructed his own mills, including a sawmill, shingle mill, carding mill as well as a woodworking shop which he rented out. Additionally in the 1820s, more land was sold for settlement to accommodate poverty-stricken families immigrating from Britain.\n\nIn the mid-1800s, the village was at its height with the mills all remaining in operation as well as two schools and a church. More immigrants arrived from Britain to settle in the community, establishing homes and small farming operations. Of the settlers, those who were not employed by the mills were usually either farmers or railroad employees; no pioneer trades beyond the mills and woodworking shop were reportedly established in Hyndman.\n\nPrior to the division of school sections, Hyndman had its own log schoolhouse constructed in 1842; the log building was used after hours for religious services and as a community hall. When Hyndman was divided into sections, the area became section #17 with the school being referred to as S.S. #17 Campbell's Mills School; the school was located between Hyndman and the small neighbouring settlement of Campbell's Corners. In 1852, the log structure had greatly deteriorated and was replaced in a new location, west of its former location on Hyndman Road, by newer a frame building. In 1875, the area was divided into two sections, S.S. #17 and S.S. #23; the western section remained #17 serving Campbell's Corners, while S.S. #23 was created near the intersection of Hyndman Road and County Road 22. The S.S. #23 school was replaced by a newer building in 1914, and the old frame schoolhouse was dismantled to have its materials recycled. Both schools closed permanently in 1964 due to the construction of larger, modern schools nearby and improved transportation.\n\nIn 1863, the Grantville Congregation was formed by the community as a Wesleyan-Methodist congregation. Shortly after its inception, the congregation purchased land from the Grant family for 5 shillings in order to construct a church. The church serviced the area for a short time, as the small congregation was eventually amalgamated into a larger congregation from the nearby community of Heckston.\n\nIn 1877, the death of Daniel Grant led to the mills of the community being sold along with the Grant homestead to a man named Joseph Hyndman; Hyndman became postmaster upon his arrival which spurred the name change. The Hyndman family operated the mills and established a cheese factory on the property in the 1890s. The factory was originally a red frame building however it was replaced by a cinderblock building, which allowed for year-round operation, after a fire damaged the frame structure in 1933. The cheese produced here was sold locally as well as shipped internationally to England. The cheese factory was enlarged in the 1950s, but business declined in the 1960s when stricter regulation were placed upon cheese production, making it too costly to produce.\n\nInto the 20th century, Hyndman remained relatively unchanged before immediately seeing a decline before 1910. For a brief period, a general store operated after Joseph Hyndman's death in 1901 led to new mill owners, who ran a store accompanying the mill until 1906. At this time, the mills which sustained the community were deemed obsolete and ceased operations, with the buildings being demolished completely by 1907. Sports became increasingly popular in the community in the early 1900s, and an outdoor \"arena\" was erected in Hyndman on a nearby pond; fees were charged for ice time and organized hockey games against neighbouring community teams were held there. By mid-20th century, the community saw a total decline as all businesses, schools and churches had ceased operations.\n\nInto the late 1900s, a few sporadic developments have taken place in Hyndman; a tree-growing nursery was in operation and land was cleared to accommodate a golf course. Presently, Hyndman is a rural residential community consisting mostly of private homes, with few small farms still in operation. Some modern homes have been constructed here in recent years, many of which have been built on top of what were previously old farms. A commemorative sign has been erected at the former site of the mills established by Lewis Grant to indicate their location.\n\nMainsville, Ontario, is a rural community situated around the intersection of Brouseville and Wynands roads. Around the time of its settlement the community was referred to as both Main's Corners and Raney's Corners, after two families which had both established homes at near the intersection.\n\nIn the early 1800s, the Mainsville area began to be settled by a few families who established homes and farms around what would become the community's main intersection. The settlement expanded slowly into the 1830s and 1840s, at which point the community began to recognize the need for services such as a church and school.\n\nIn 1835, a Presbyterian congregation had formed in Mainsville and part of the Spencerville charge and a church was constructed of log shortly after. Services were conducted by a pastor who also gave services at Spencerville and Cardinal. By the 1860s, the primitive log structure serving as the Presbyterian church was in need of upgrades or replacement. In 1865, the Raney family donated a portion of land on the northwest corner of the main intersection to hold a new Presbyterian church, which was to be called St James Presbyterian Church. In the late 1800s, the church separated from Spencerville to join the Cardinal charge; drive sheds were built behind the church for the congregation. The Presbyterian church closed in 1967 as membership declined and the building was converted into a home. Later into the settlement, in 1870, a Methodist church was built on land purchased from the Main family. This church drew large crowds to its early services however few residents became members; by 1878 the congregation consisted of 50 people. The Mainsville Methodist Church was demolished and replaced in 1893, with drive sheds being built to accompany the church. After the church union in 1925, the church became the Mainsville United Church until its closure in 1971. This church also became a private home.\n\nThe first school in Mainsville was established early, around 1844. This log schoolhouse, located on land leased by the Main family, was used until 1860 when it was replaced by a more practical stone schoolhouse situated across the road from the old one. Mainsville was designated its own school section, #9, with the school's name recorded as S.S. #9 Mainsville School. In later years, the school became known simply as the Mainsville Public School. In 1961, the school was closed and pupils were bussed to a newer, larger school in Johnstown. The stone schoolhouse became a private home.\n\nAfter 1870, the community had begun to be consistently listed as Mainsville in church and school records; the settlement continued to grow and was now home to a blacksmithing shop and brickyard. By the end of the century Mainsville had a population of 75 and in addition to the original businesses, now had two general stores and a harness shop.\n\nBy the 1900s, the majority of the land surrounding Mainsville had been cultivated by farmers. At this time, the community added a cheese factory and a grocery store to its business roster. The cheese factory, constructed in 1906, was supplied by local farmers and operated by the Division Mainsville Cheese Association, a group of local men. The factory burned down in 1946, at which time the owner purchased the cheese factory from Pittston and moved it to Mainsville as a replacement. The factory ceased operations in the 1950s and was converted into apartments. During the first half of the 1900s, team sports became popular, highly organized event throughout the township with each community assembling its own teams. Mainsville had a hockey, football and softball team. The community began to change by the mid-1900s; around this time the village received access to electricity, infrastructure improved and technology became more accessible all of which contributed to the community's obsolescence.\n\nMainsville Cemetery is a non-denominational cemetery which was used as a community burial ground as early as 1895, however the land was not formally purchased for this use until 1901. In 1897 during the construction of Galop Canal, numerous graves were moved from Cardinal and interred this cemetery. In 1949, the fence surrounding the Mainsville Cemetery was painted and maintained by the Mainsville Women's Institute. As of the 1960s, the cemetery is under the care of the township and a board of trustees. In 1985, a new steel fence and gate were built replacing the old one.\n\nNear the end of the 1900s many properties in Mainsville which once belonged to the first settlers were sold to the government Land Bank. After the properties were purchased, the homes and farms were usually demolished or simply left abandoned. Although many century-old structures were lost, several other buildings from the beginning of the settlement remain standing or occupied. Mainsville has no businesses in operation as of 2016, and consists mostly of residential properties and a few small farms. Newer houses have been periodically built within the community since the mid-1900s.\n\nNew Wexford, Ontario is a small hamlet located just east of the town of Prescott, Ontario, between Prescott and Johnstown. The hamlet is located along the Saint Lawrence River banks, and Ontario Highway 2. By the time Prescott became an established town and the War of 1812 had ended, The King's Highway (Ontario Highway 2) had become a rapidly improving, main corridor between Montreal and Kingston. This showed much potential for the people who held the land at the outskirts of Prescott. Eventually, by the 1850s, the railway had advanced through Prescott and the surrounding area, which generated further interest amongst the landowners to form a community.\nThe land in New Wexford was divided and granted to various loyalists in the late 1700s, and changed hands many times until the early 1800s. Around 1835, Dr. Thomas Gainfort, who already owned land in the area, became heir to two more lots of land in close proximity to his existing property. After Gainfort's death in 1854, his three spinster sisters inherited all of his land; it is around this time the railroad and highway were beginning to develop and the settlement began showing growth potential. By 1860, the Gainfort trio had commissioned someone to lay out a town plot on their property to be called New Wexford, as the family is said to have emigrated from Wexford County, Ireland. The most successful early business established in the village was a slaughter house owned by the King family, which remained thriving until the Great Depression. The King's property was located on a piece of land which jutted out into the Saint Lawrence River, leading locals to refer his land as Butcher's Point. The slaughterhouse purchased cattle and swine from local farmers, which was then supplied to local families and to the crews that worked the river barges. Meat was preserved using large ice blocks which were cut from the Saint Lawrence during the winter months.\n\nIn the beginning of the 1800s, before formal schooling was introduced to the area, it was recorded that some of the wealthy settlers of New Wexford paid a woman named Ann Drummond, to tutor their children. According to the records, Miss Drummond was paid around 9 shillings for 4 months of private tutoring in 1824. Prior to 1860, little else is known about formal education practices in New Wexford, however it is believed that students would have likely walked into the town of Prescott to attend school. In 1860, seven lots of land were chosen to become New Wexford's first official school, S.S. #1. Early records for this school are unclear, the earliest records are from 1899, forty years after the school was established. The first records show that around 20-30 students enrolled in the school, and dates in which the school was closed or postponed and the reasons why; during the year 1899, the school was closed twice – once for rain, and once for the death of a student named Aggie Manion and her father.\n\nNew Wexford's most infamous landmark was formerly an old railway overpass across Ontario Highway 2 with low clearance that frequently caused problems for large transports commuting from Kingston to Montreal, and was the cause of many accidents. Locally, the overpass was referred to as \"The Subway\", and was built to connect the CPR tracks to Prescott's coal yards, west of the village. Before Highway 401 was built, Ontario Highway 2 was the main corridor between Kingston and Montreal, and despite clear marking of the clearance, many truck drivers sheared off their roofs, or became wedged under the overpass causing traffic congestion. According to local lore, a truck transporting chickens once collided with The Subway and the chickens were subsequently freed, resulting in a village-wide round-up of the escaped birds. The Subway was dismantled in March 1973.\n\nPittston, Ontario is located on the banks of the South Branch of the South Nation River; north of Cardinal, Ontario, between Brouseville and Shanly. Its main intersection is the crossing of Shanly Road and Pittston Road. Originally, the community was called Riddell's Settlement, as the Riddell family headed six households and owned much of the land here. The community was eventually renamed after William Pitt, who was the first postmaster and built the first general store here in the 1800s. Although much of the land of Pittston was surveyed and distributed as land grants by 1799, the land changed hands many times before being settled by 1840. The village was arguably at its height during the mid-to-late 1800s, at which time several businesses were in operation and family farms were thriving. By the late 1800s, the village had a population of around 150.\nThe village of Pittston was settled as an agricultural community, with most of its residents running family farms as their main source of income. Eventually, by the mid-1800s the community became home to some pioneer trades and businesses. During the mid-1800s, the village was home to a sawmill, a gristmill, two general stores, and a blacksmith shop. By 1871, a post office was running out of one of the general stores.\n\nWhen the township was divided by school sections, Pittston was section number ten with its school being accordingly named S.S. #10 Pittston School. The first school building in Pittston was constructed around 1841. This schoolhouse was built from log and reportedly \"lacked the bare necessities\". During the 1850s, a new stone school was built to replace the log structure. In 1908, the stone schoolhouse was condemned and dismantled. A replacement was constructed on Pittston Road, west of the intersection of Shanly Road, at a cost of $5000. The third school was constructed of red brick with a belfry. The new school was divided into multiple rooms and had a basement for storage. The school closed in 1964 when one-room common schools were phased out, and was converted into a home.\n\nThe community of Pittston has historically been home to two churches, a Wesleyan-Methodist (now United) church and a Holiness Movement church. It is unclear when the Holiness Movement church was constructed, however it was a small frame building located east of the village's main intersection. This church was closed and dismantled in the 1950s, and the salvaged materials were used to construct a new church in Cardinal. The Pittston United Church was constructed in 1870 as a Wesleyan-Methodist church. The land was purchased for one dollar in 1869, with the red brick building being constructed the following year. Around the 1920s, the church became the Pittston United Church after a church union.\n\nA cheese factory was built in Pittston in the late-1800s. By 1885, an addition was added to the cheese factory which housed a grain crusher and planing machine, diversifying operations. The cheese factory burned down twice, once in the late-1800s and once in 1900, and was rebuilt after both fires. By 1900, the factory had reached its peak, producing 20 cheeses a day. The cheese was transported to Spencerville where it was then shipped to Montreal to be exported internationally. The factory closed in the 1940s.\n\nInto the 1900s, many of the businesses in Pittston began to close as improving infrastructure led to the obsolescence of small farming communities. Additionally, many family farms began to cease operations as they were increasing unprofitable. By the mid-1900s, all businesses apart from the general store, which operated until the late 1990s, had closed. In 1950, one new business had opened, another general store, which operated until 1968. In 1971, a Kampgrounds of America (KOA) campground was established in the village. The campground, located east of the main intersection, has space for 90 trailers and 100 tents. The campground has a pool, miniature golf course, ball diamond, playground and hiking trails for recreation.\n\nAs of 2016, the KOA campground is the only business in operation in Pittston. The village currently consists mainly of residential properties with a few farms still in operation. The Pittston United Church is still in use.\n\nThe Island, Ontario, is the name given to a small community located along Dukelow Road, west of Spencerville. In the 19th century, Dukelow Road was only a primitive trail through forest which flooded from both ends during the spring essentially creating a temporary island; this lead locals to refer to the area and surrounding settlement as simply The Island. The Island has been a consistently small settlement, as by the mid-19th century only four families had established homesteads and mixed-farming operations there; the settlement likely obtained its distinction due to its isolation from surrounding communities and not its prosperity.\n\nDuring the 19th century The Island consisted mostly of farmers; mixed-farming operations were the main source of income and little to no businesses were recorded in the community apart from a sawmill. Residents would likely have relied on travelling to neighbouring communities for services. The sawmill was located on what was the Eighth Concession and was powered by steam engine; the mill operated year-round employing around four men. After the forest was cleared the mill ceased operations and by the 1920s the property used as a homestead and the forest regrown. Mail was delivered to the community by horse and buggy beginning in 1916 until around 1935 when it was then delivered by car until the 1940s; the community never had a formal post office and mail was delivered house by house.\n\nIn 1863, the township council designated The Island as its own school section, called S.S. #26; the section was designated much later than others in the area due to low potential enrolment. A log schoolhouse was constructed first, and used until 1901 when it was replaced by a more practical stone structure. The school served elementary aged students. The schoolhouse was used as a meeting place for a variety of social gatherings after hours; most locally notable was the Union Literary Club which operated from the schoolhouse from 1909. The club was exclusive to residents of the Island; a password was required for entry into meetings and members were expected to pay a fee twice a year to maintain membership. The club frequently had musical entertainment, public speakers and formal debates. The school was closed around 1928, when students began to be transported to schools in nearby Spencerville. After the school was closed, the building was later sold and converted into a private home.\n\nDuring the early 1900s, The Island was a popular gathering spot for the township to participate in organized sports; each village or settlement typically had their own formal hockey team or ball team assembled, depending on the season, which competed against other communities at the few designated hockey \"arenas\" or parks. A recurring patch of flat ice in a field at The Island was designated the \"Island Arena\", hockey games and tournaments were organized and held at this outdoor \"arena\" throughout the winter months. These tournaments were considered important in the township and were large community events; the results of the games were often reported in local newspapers and were well-followed by surrounding communities.\n\nPresent day, The Island, although recognized by contemporary maps, consists solely of a few family homes; almost all of the farms have ceased operations and there are no businesses currently located within the community. Development remains minimal; the roads here have been modernized and are mostly paved and well-maintained. Some newer, modern homes have been constructed sporadically within the area in recent years.\n\nVentnor, Ontario, is a small hamlet located along the Petite Nation River near the village of Spencerville. Originally, the settlement was called Adams after Gideon and Joel Adams, the sons of the Loyalist Dr. Samuel Adams, who received considerable land grants there prior to 1795 which included the rights to establish a mill and dam on the Petite Nation. The Adams family were the first to settle at Ventnor in the early 1800s, and had a mill in operation by 1928. The community of Ventnor was at its height in the late 1800s, a time when many pioneer businesses and industries were active within the village.\n\nEarly into the 19th century, the settlement began to grow around the Adams’ mill as more settlers, mostly Loyalists and Scottish or Irish immigrants, established homesteads on the surrounding land. At this point, the settlement was home to a gristmill and a sawmill, later accompanied by an oat kiln and stone flour mill. By the 1840s, the sons of Gideon and Joel Adams inherited the land of what was to be the village of Ventnor; the settlement had by this time a blacksmith, a carriage shop, a general store and a hotel. During the 1850s, land was surveyed and divided into lots, and plans and maps were created detailing the further development of the village of Adams. In 1864, the village established its own post office, which ultimately led to its name change; Adams was deemed unacceptable by postal authorities as another village named Adams existed within Ontario. Ventnor was allegedly randomly chosen from a list of suggested untaken names given by Canada Post, and the village was immediately renamed Ventnor.\n\nThe first cemetery located in Ventnor was established around 1837 as a family burial plot for the Stitt family, and is known as Stitt Cemetery; before the community cemetery was established, some early settlers who were not a part of the Stitt family were buried here for lack of a better location. Stitt Cemetery was used as a meeting spot by the village's temperance association. The community cemetery, known as Adams Cemetery, is located along Adams Road south of the community. The land for the cemetery was purchased in the mid-1800s from a member of the Adams family to be a non-denominational burial place. The earliest known burial is dated to 1869. The cemetery is currently maintained by a local board.\n\nBy the mid-to-late 19th century, Ventnor had established more businesses and industries alongside the pre-existing ones, including two more general stores, a cabinet maker, milliner, tailor and a carpet manufacturer. Additionally, three doctors were practicing within the village in the mid-1800s. By the 20th century, the community continued to prosper, with the addition of a fourth general store, a second gristmill, a cement works and brickyard, a cheese and butter factory, a barber shop, three churches, a Good Templar's Hall (a temperance association), a public school as well as an ice cream parlour which was supplied by its own cow. By 1899, the community had a population of around 200 individuals, and a second schoolhouse was needed in the village. Sports were a popular community past time during the 1800s, and Ventnor, like most other area communities had its own hockey and baseball teams which competed throughout the township against other the communities; games and tournaments were considered important events and were widely reported on by local newspapers.\n\nVentnor was at one point home to three churches: a Presbyterian church, a Methodist Episcopal church, and a Wesleyan-Methodist church. The Presbyterian church, known as Ventnor Presbyterian Church, was constructed in 1877 by volunteers using local limestone; upon its construction, it briefly served the Wesleyan-Methodist congregation. The Presbyterian church closed briefly due to the church union in 1925, after which the congregation was to attend the newly formed Ventnor United Church. Dissatisfied with the union, the Presbyterian congregation bought the church back, renaming it Knox Presbyterian; services were held there until the late 1990s. The Wesleyan-Methodist church was built in 1879 on the south side of the Petite Nation and the Episcopal Methodist Church, constructed in the same year, was built along Ventnor Road. The congregation of the Episcopal Methodist church was small, and by the 1880s had amalgamated with the Wesleyan-Methodist church. This congregation assembled at the Wesleyan-Methodist church, and the Episcopal church was sold to the school board. The Wesleyan-Methodist church became known as Canada Methodist Church, until 1925 when it became the Ventnor United Church. The United Church became a community meeting spot after a hall was built alongside it in 1929. By the 1970s, the congregation had greatly decreased and the church was closed except for the occasional wedding ceremony; in 1993, the church was demolished.\n\nThe first school in Ventnor was established as early as 1848, as census records from this year indicate a schoolhouse was operating on a local farm however little else is known about this school. In 1852, the first school was replaced by a stone schoolhouse built on Ventnor Road. The school section serving Ventnor was known as section #14, with its school being known as S.S. #14 Ventnor School. Attendance was low as only a third of the enrolled students regularly attended in the mid-1800s. In 1884, the stone schoolhouse was in such bad repair it was condemned and the school board purchased the brick building formerly used as the Episcopal Methodist church to be used as the new school; the spire was removed and replaced with the belfry from the dilapidated stone schoolhouse. In 1898, enrolment and attendance increased and a second school section was opened to serve the village known as section #27, with the school being named S.S. #27 Dobbie's School. The school, located at the corner of County Road 22 and Ventnor Road, was a primitive schoolhouse, originally without running water. In the 1930s, Dobbie's School was upgraded to include basic plumbing and equipment for home economics class. Both S.S. #14 and S.S. #27 operated until the 1960s, at which time students were transported to more modern schools in Shanly or Spencerville.\n\nInto the 20th century, improvements of local roads, the accessibility of motor-vehicles, and the importation of goods ultimately led to the village's decline, as pioneer industries on which the village thrived became obsolete. By 1913, the lumbering business had declined, leading to the closure of the mills, followed by their demolition. The gristmill remained open for a short period of time during the 20th century, during which time it was converted into a cheese factory and later into a boiler plant until it was damaged by fire in the mid-1900s then demolished. The post office was closed in the 1960s, at which time the population had reportedly declined to around 68 individuals; the last business to close was the general store which ceased operations around 1960.\n\nBy the late 1900s, Ventnor had become a rural farming and residential community, with few businesses outside of agriculture in operation. Currently, the village is home to some dairy farming operations; however, the village mostly consists of family homes. Despite the lack of businesses, new homes are being constructed in the Ventnor area sporadically, with no formal development plans.\n\nNewport, Rooney's Corners, The Front, The Second, Garryowen, Clover Hill, Spencerville West, Domville Station, Kelly's Settlement and Prescott Junction (also called Junctionville) were communities that were once located within the Edwardsburgh/Cardinal boundaries but are either no longer labelled on maps, or have no remaining structures. Most were barely established communities containing mostly family farms and a few businesses.\n\nClover Hill, Ontario, was a community located north-west of Cardinal. The community got its name from the large hill surrounded by a large field of clover which the settlement was built around. In 1797, the newly surveyed land was first granted to prominent Loyalist men including Gideon Adams and Captain Hugh Munro, both of whom later established other communities in the township. Most of the Loyalists who were granted the land at Clover Hill sold their lots promptly to willing settlers.\n\nIn the early 1800s families slowly began to settle the area, sustaining themselves through mixed farming or working as labourers. By mid-century, much of the land of Clover Hill had been cultivated and sugar bushes became a popular addition to local farms. Prior to 1851, a cheese factory called Spotswood Cheese Factory was established in Clover Hill which produced cheese from the milk supplied by the communities farms; this factory remained in operation into the 1900s. Few pioneer trades were established during the mid-1800s, a shoemaker was the only tradesperson recorded on early censuses.\n\nPrior to the division of school sections around 1840, Clover Hill had its own elementary school; the school was constructed primitively of logs and was frequently closed for lack of attendance. In 1853, a school inspector noted that this school had been closed for quite sometime, having possibly been abandoned. By 1862, a schoolhouse was mapped out on Lot 18 of Clover Hill; as records from the time are unclear, it is unknown if this school was the same log school mentioned in 1853 or its replacement. In 1876, the community had enough students to be designated as its own school section, known as S.S. #7. A more practical stone schoolhouse was constructed on Lot 18 to replace the old school, which was now titled S.S.#7 Clover Hill School. The school operated until 1939 when it closed for lack of enrolment.\n\nThe Clover Hill schoolhouse was located on top of the community's landmark hill which was also the settlement's geographic centre, making the building a convenient meeting place after school hours. The structure was used for a variety of purposes, essentially becoming the community hall, housing concerts, box socials and dances. In addition, residents relied on sports for entertainment, mainly hockey, baseball or lacrosse. Clover Hill assembled its own sports teams which competed against teams from neighbouring communities; these sporting events were widely reported on by local media. Clover Hill was also home to a primitive horse-racing track, constructed by locals with wheelbarrow and shovel.\n\nIn the 1900s, a fully mechanized sawmill was established in Clover Hill by a man named Garnett Baker. The mill produced or milled lumber for locals and was contracted to supply Canadian National Railways (CNR) with railway ties. As transportation improved, this sawmill became relatively obsolete as lumber was easily accessible elsewhere. Despite the steady decline in business, the sawmill there remained in operation for many decades, with Baker being its sole owner and operator. The mill closed in 1985 following a fire that destroyed Baker's home. A barn which accompanied the sawmill still stands, having recently been used as the headquarters for the Johnstown Snowmobile Club.\n\nIn the mid-1900s, the construction of the Ontario Highway 401, in conjunction with government expropriation, ultimately led to the community's dissolution. The highway was constructed over parts of the settlement, and its construction severed the community's access to the front of the township. In the 1970s, the Edwardsburgh Land Bank purchased much of what remained of Clover Hill. In 1974, residents of Clover Hill were offered $500 an acre for their land from an alleged \"secret buyer\"; many accepted the offers until the community grew suspicious, and after prying into the matter uncovered the Land Bank scheme. These properties were now owned by the government and essentially left abandoned. Most of the structures that once made up the settlement were demolished, including the schoolhouse, sawmill and numerous farms and houses. Only a handful of the original stone houses built there still remain, one of which is the former home of two of the first settlers, William and Margaret Bush, who are buried in front of the house.\n\nDomville Station was the name given to a small community which was located north of New Wexford and Prescott Junction, at the western border of the township. The community got its name due to its proximity to the village of Domville and the fact there was a small train station built here in the 1850s. Despite having no established businesses, residents living here felt the need to distinguish their community as the low, swampy land made the rest of the township inaccessible by road for many months of the year. Residents relied on neighbouring communities for their services.\n\nDomville Station was an agricultural community, as most residents in the 1800s sustained themselves through family farming operations. Until World War I, hops were the main commodity as they could be easily sold to nearby breweries.\n\nAround 1844, Domville Station became its own school section, section number eighteen in the township. A log schoolhouse was then built along Glen Smail Road to serve as the community's school. During the mid-1800s, around 50 pupils attended the school on average. In 1874, the land holding the log schoolhouse was purchased with a half-acre being sold back to the school board. The following year a stone school was constructed to replace the log structure. The stone school was referred to as S.S. #18 Knowles School, after the Knowles family who owned the land nearby. In the early 1900s, attendance decreased so greatly the school was frequently closed and reopened; upon its 1946 reopening, only 8 pupils were enrolled. Despite decreasing enrolment, the playground was enlarged in 1950 through a land donation. The school closed years later in 1963 when one-room schools were phased out.\n\nThe Domville train station, constructed in 1854, was located along the Bytown and Prescott Railway line at its intersection with Hands Road. The station was a red clapboard building, measuring around . It was considered a flag station, as it did not have a station master. Instead, a cylinder outside of the building contained a flag which one would use to flag down a passing train. Inside the station were two long benches and a cooking stove.\n\nAs infrastructure improved into the 1900s, family farms became less profitable and ceased operations. The Bytown and Prescott Railway began to shut down in 1966, eliminating the flag stop. During the 1970s, much of the land in the community was purchased by the Land Bank, and many homes were subsequently demolished or left abandoned. The name Domville Station fell into disuse after the community largely dissolved. As of 2016, the land which was once Domville Station consists of a few private homes and a pyrotechnics company, called Hands Fireworks Inc., located on what was once a farm.\n\nGarryowen, Ontario was a small rural hamlet located south of the village of Ventnor, its central location being the intersection of Armstrong Road and Rock Street. The area was primarily settled in the 1820s by Irish and Scottish immigrants who named the community after the Garryowen air.\n\nDuring the mid-1800s, Garryowen was a thriving farming community. Wheat, potatoes, pork, as well as maple sugar and syrup were the main commodities. Several farms also raised sheep or had orchards. Many residents opened quarries as the land here was shallow and limestone was abundant. The stone was a profitable resource used locally or sold to construction projects. Other mid-century businesses included a cooperage, shoemaker, weaver and stonemason.\n\nIn 1843, a primitive log schoolhouse was built serving elementary aged students. Garryowen was designated school section 12 in the township and the school was accordingly named S.S. #12 Garryowen School. The log school was condemned and replaced on site in 1879. The new school was constructed of stone taken from the local quarries. After hours, the school was used as a community hall. The school closed in the 1960s due to lack of enrolment and was converted to a home.\n\nIn the late 1800s, Garryowen became home to an outdoor arena. An area was cleared in the centre of a grove referred to as Roddick's Grove. In summer it was set up for baseball and was flooded by a well in winter for hockey. Teams from Garryowen played against those from neighbouring communities and townships. Sporting events were highly organized and tournament results were published by local media.\n\nBy the 1890s a vineyard and cheese factory were established in Garryowen. The cheese factory was built in 1892 as the Garryowen Cheese Factory. The factory produced around of cheese per day from local milk, which was exported to American and British markets. In 1901, the shareholders formed the Canada Pride Cheese Company. By 1930, cheese was mostly purchased by wholesalers and by the 1940s the factory was closed. The frame factory was dismantled and its lumber used to build three houses.\n\nThe population of Garryowen steadily declined from 1900 onward. The land became barren by the 1930s and most farming operations ceased. With few families remaining in the area, the community dissolved and the name Garryowen fell into disuse. Most contemporary maps do not distinguish the area as a locality. In recent years, the area has been somewhat reoccupied by new families.\n\nKelly's Settlement was the name given to a small community located between Crystal Rock and Johnstown along County Road 44, then known as Johnstown Road. The settlement began in the early-to-mid 1800s when several farms and homes were constructed in the area. The residents were mostly farmers in charge of mixed farming operations. Wheat, rye and hops were the main commodities.\n\nDuring the 1850s, the community became home to a large frame hotel called Kelly's Inn. The inn was owned and operated by James Kelly for whom the settlement was named after. In addition to the inn and farms, the community established some small pioneer trades. A shoemaker, a carpenter and joiner, and two weavers maintained businesses here. The community relied on neighbouring communities for most of its services.\n\nThe most recently recorded reference of Kelly's Settlement is from 1864 township records. The record is of a business transaction in which the township hired a local man to construct a bridge at \"Kelly’s Settlement on the Johnstown road\". After this time, there is no mention of Kelly's Settlement as its own community, and the area was considered part of Crystal Rock. Presently, the area consists of a handful of residential properties and little evidence of the settlement exists.\n\nNewport, Ontario was a planned town located between Johnstown and New Wexford which never ended up becoming fully established. According to some records, the town was also sometimes referred to as New Jerusalem. The proposed village was to be where the current of the Battle of the Windmill National Historic Site is located, often referred to as Windmill Point. The Crown originally granted the land to two Loyalists, John Dulmage and Thomas McIlmoyle, who sold the land to a farmer named Joseph Bass in 1809. Bass held onto the land for five years before selling it off to Solomn Snyder in 1814. Snyder divided 27 and a half acres of his water front property into town lots, declaring this was to become a new town called Newport, Ontario. At the time, the King's Highway (Ontario Highway 2) would have run parallel to the shoreline past the windmill. At its peak, Newport had around ten stone buildings or structures including the windmill, all of which would've been located on what is now Windmill Road. These structures included a stone, one-room schoolhouse, which was called S.S #3 North Channel School, a three-story stone building which contained both a tavern and general store, as well as a storehouse and two-storey carriage barn. The remainder of the structures here were family homes.\n\nIn 1838, the village was attacked by a group of American invaders from Ogdensburg attempting to \"free\" Prescott of perceived British oppression; known as the Battle of the Windmill. Although the Americans were ultimately defeated, the town of Newport experienced great loss. During the battle, two civilian lives were lost; a mother and her two children had been hiding in their cellar after their home was seized, with the intention of fleeing at dusk. When the trio exited the cellar, they were immediately spotted by the invading Americans who held their fire, however when they arrived close to the Canadian lines, shots were fired. All three were hit; the mother and her four-year-old son died on the battlefield, while the seventeen-year-old daughter, despite being shot through her jaw, managed to crawl to safety. After the battle, the bodies of fifty American men were buried in a mass grave near the battle site. Most of the buildings that once stood as Newport were burned or destroyed by both cannon and gun fire during the battle, and were not rebuilt.\n\nIn 1873, the windmill was converted into a lighthouse, and the village of Newport began to fade into obscurity. The village was never registered and little mention was ever made of it even existing, apart from a popular lighthouse keeper using the name \"Newport\" to occasionally specify the location of his lighthouse in the late 1800s. In 1920, the area became a designated National Historic Site and is currently owned and maintained by Parks Canada. The ruins of one of the original stone farm houses remained at the site until the 1980s, when it was completely demolished. Present day, only the windmill and one of the original homes that made up the town of Newport remain standing. The home is known as Joseph Bass house, and is one of the oldest homes still standing in the township; it also served as a tavern and general store. According to a Prescott Journal article from 1898, the house was used during battle as a place to keep the injured and dead. Damage from cannon blasts can still be seen on the exterior of the house, which is currently a private residence.\n\nPrescott Junction was a planned town located east of Prescott, about a kilometre north of New Wexford. The town had triangular boundaries, which at the time were the Grand Trunk Railway line, the Bytown and Prescott Railway line as well as Reynolds Street, a now non-existent road. In 1868, the land was surveyed and divided into 17 lots to become a new townsite. The town was originally called Junctionville, however this name was only used briefly; by 1871 newspapers and business directories were referring to the village as Prescott Junction.\n\nBy the 1870s the town was thriving, with many businesses and homes having been constructed. Businesses in operation included two hotel and taverns called Beaufort's Inn and the Ottawa Hotel, a Montreal Telegraph Company office, a Grand Trunk Railway station and a Canadian Express Company office. There were enough houses to accommodate around 50 individuals.\n\nIn 1884, the Grand Trunk Railway closed its station at Prescott Junction, and eventually the Canadian Pacific Railway took control of the area's railways. The town then became used as coal storage yards and ultimately dissolved.\n\nBy the late-1900s, there was little evidence of Prescott Junction's existence. All of the structures were burned or demolished, with only some foundations remaining. Much of the area where the village once stood is now entirely overgrown, while some land has been incorporated into the Prescott Golf Course.\n\nThe most noticeable piece of architecture left over from the town was a wooden footbridge which crossed over the former Bytown and Prescott Railway line, referred to by locals as Hangman's Bridge. The ominous name led some to associate the bridge with actual hangings, however there is no evidence of any hangings associated with the bridge ever occurring. It is likely that the bridge got its name from the fact its simple wood construction vaguely resembled a gallows. The bridge was demolished around the late 1980s or early 1990s.\n\nRooney's Corners was the name given to a small community near Cedar Grove Road and Rooney Road; what was the communities centre is now the junction of the 401, Ontario Highway 16, and the aforementioned roads. Highway development dissected most of the land and the remainder was sold off to the government Land Bank around the 1970s. The community's name was taken from the surname of the owners of the general store, Edward and Rosanna Rooney.\n\nDuring the 1800s, Rooney's Corners was a thriving farming community with some pioneer industries in operation. The settlement had a limestone quarry and clay deposits which were both mined and a pottery business known as Mooney's Pottery was established. As most of the residents here sought an income through farming, a cheese factory was subsequently built relying on the local milk supply. The frame factory was known as Rooney's Cheese Factory.\n\nIn 1848, a schoolhouse was located on a farm along Cedar Grove Road. When school sections were designated, the school was originally a union section with the neighbouring township of Augusta. By 1852, Rooney's Corners and the surrounding area had a large enough population to warrant their own school section. The area was labelled as section #20 with its school being accordingly named S.S. #20 Cedar Grove School. The school required yearly grants to stay open, and was eventually replaced in 1900 by a frame schoolhouse built further west.\n\nIn addition to the common school, in 1855 plans were made to erect a Roman Catholic Separate School in the community. By 1856, a stone schoolhouse was constructed along Cedar Grove Road and designated Separate School #1; it is believed to have been the first separate school in the township. The first teacher was paid 36 pounds a year plus board to teach elementary-aged students basic school subjects such as spelling or grammar. In later years the school closed periodically due to lack of enrolment before being permanently closed around 1907.\n\nBy 1871, a sawmill was established by the Chapman family on a small creek situated off of Cedar Grove Road. The mill, called Chapman's mill, also operated as a carding mill for a period of time, supplying the community with slab lumber and shingles. In later years the mill was converted to operate on steam power. In the early 1900s, Wentworth Chapman was crippled in an accident at the mill involving escaped horses. Shortly after this, the mill ceased operations and later was destroyed by fire along with the Chapman family's farm. Until the 1990s, the chimney once belonging to Chapman's mill, which survived the fire, remained in its original location; it was a tall stone structure with a base.\n\nIn the early 1900s, Rooney's Corners was essentially at a standstill. The schools and mill had closed, however around this time the general store, which lent the settlement its name, was established on County Road 44. The community saw some excitement in the 1920s, during prohibition, when bootlegging became a profitable endeavour; Rooney's Corners was located along a popular smuggling route. A ball diamond was laid out in a nearby cow pasture in the 1920s which held organized ball games against teams from nearby settlements and villages; the results of the games were often published in local newspapers.\n\nDuring the 1950s, many of the farms and houses which formed Rooney's Corners were expropriated by the Provincial Highway Department in order to accommodate Highway 401. Within a short time, much of the community was demolished. In the 1970s, much of the remaining land around Rooney's Corners and Cedar Grove Road was purchased by the government Land Bank; houses and lots were either demolished or left abandoned. Around the 1980s, the cluster of houses along Fraser Road, all belonging to members of the Fraser family, became referred to as Fraserville; the designation was spurred due to the extensive Christmas light decorations put up each year by the family, which attracted local attention.\n\nPresently, there is little to no visible trace of the community's existence. Many of the buildings constructed by early settlers along Rooney and Cedar Grove roads have disappeared, including all of the former businesses, schools and many farms and houses. The name Rooney's Corners has more-or-less disappeared, no longer commonly ascribed to the area.\n\nThe Front was the name given to the community situated between Cardinal and Johnstown on the First Concession of the township, along the Saint Lawrence River. The name was given to the community as this area of land was considered to be at the front of the township, and was often referred to as simply \"The Front\" by locals. Despite its location along the river, little settlement occurred before the late 1700s, when the Loyalists arrived.\n\nBy 1792, much of the land along The Front was granted to disbanded Loyalist soldiers, who had been settling the area and clearing the land sporadically since it was surveyed 1784. The first settlers established small farms here, raising livestock or planting crops. As early as 1790, two gristmills and a sawmill were in operation along The Front, however by 1865, these mills were no longer mentioned in records and presumed closed.\n\nIn the early 1800s, residents of The Front relied on the river for a means of employment. Businesses involving river transportation were profitable at this time, such as hauling boats through the Galops Rapids. Later into the century, construction projects such as the building of the Galop Canal provided work for the residents of The Front. In addition to the river, residents sustained themselves through various agricultural means; the area consisted of many farms and orchards which sold dairy, produce or other goods to local markets. Cheese factories dotted the area along The Front giving farmers a place to sell their milk production, and supplying cheese to local communities; The Front was serviced by the cheese factories of Rooney's Corners and Cardinal, as well as its own Perry Creek factory, located on Lot 23 on the First Concession. The Perry Creek factory was destroyed by fire in 1897, but was rebuilt within a month; the new factory operated until 1923.\n\nIn 1826, a Presbyterian church was constructed in what is now considered part of Cardinal, however at the time was known as The Front Church. In 1827, the first Anglican church in the township of Edwardsburgh/Cardinal was erected in The Front with an accompanying burial ground; the church operated until 1873, while the cemetery is still in use today. Around 1849, a Wesleyan-Methodist church was erected on Lot 10 of the First Concession, just west of Cardinal; this church operated for a short time, before the congregation amalgamated with the Episcopal Methodist church located in Cardinal to become a United church. Two other churches, more commonly associated with he villages of Johnstown and Cardinal, were considered as belonging to The Front when they were first constructed; the Sacred Heart Roman Catholic Church, now considered to be in Cardinal, was constructed in 1875 and the Johnstown Methodist Church constructed in 1879.\n\nTwo schools operated along The Front serving the community's students. According to an 1851 census, a schoolhouse was located west of Cardinal on property belonging to the McIlmoyle family. Little is known about the school, except for that it was purchased in 1853 and closed sometime before the end of the 1800s; it is likely after 1872 the schools in Cardinal began to serve the students from this schoolhouse. During the mid-1800s when school sections were divided, S.S. #3 North Channel School served many of the students from The Front. North Channel School opened in 1845, however little records exist regarding the early history of the school. The building was replaced in 1876 by a structure described as primitive and unattractive, having been left unpainted; the building was only around for a few months before being destroyed by arson. A new school was constructed as a replacement shortly after; the new school was described as meticulously kept and remained in operation until the mid-1900s.\n\nIn the 1930s, a small coal business operated along Empire-Hannah Road. Coal was stockpiled here and sold locally; the small company was eventually bought out and the remaining coal was sent to Ottawa by train until stocks were depleted and the company folded. In the 1950s, the community saw a boom in prosperity with the construction of the Saint Lawrence Seaway, and Highway 2 became a main commercial and tourist route. As tourists were common and workers from the construction project were seeking temporary accommodations, during this time, numerous tourist cabins or other roadside sleeping accommodations were in operating along The Front. Additionally, three service stations were located between Johnstown and Cardinal, selling fuel and repairing vehicles. A general store was opened to serve the workers as well as the tourists, which closed upon the Seaway's completion.\n\nBy the mid-1900s, The Front was decreasingly dependent on agriculture and many large farms were subsequently divided into smaller lots for constructing family homes; many homes have been constructed along Highway 2 sporadically since this time. Presently, the community which was once referred to as The Front consists of a strip of mainly residential properties stretching for many kilometres from Johnstown to Cardinal along the highway. Many old homes, barns and former businesses built by the early settlers during the late 18th and early 19th centuries are still standing and occupied, however there are also many which have been demolished or replaced. The Front is a designation rarely used today to describe the area, having fallen into disuse some time ago.\n\nThe Second was the name given to a small settlement located along what was the Second Concession of the township, now Froom and Scott roads. The concession line, instead of lying straight, ran parallel to the Saint Lawrence River shoreline leading to a break in the road and oddly shaped lots; the Second Concession was thus known locally as the \"Broken Second\".\n\nIn the late 1700s, the land at The Second had been surveyed and divided into lots to be distributed as land grants to Loyalists or to be purchased by European immigrants; by 1792 some land here was occupied. Around 1795, a Loyalist named Thomas Gooseberry, one of only three black Loyalists from Jessup's Corps, was granted a lot of land here; Gooseberry did not settle here, as by 1801 his name was absent from census records.\n\nIn the early 1800s, settlement at The Second increased as more families established homes and began clearing the land. The Second remained a small agricultural until the mid-1800s, consisting of farms and homes with no prominent businesses. By 1851, the community had significant growth in population but not in industry; agriculture was the most cited means of employment next to jobs on the river, such as ship captains. Only one pioneer tradesperson was operating a business during this time as a shoemaker. The farmers of The Second mostly established mixed-farming operations; field crops such as wheat, oats, hay, peas and potatoes were popular and common livestock included dairy cattle, swine, sheep and horses. Beekeeping and apple orchards were also common on local farms.\n\nIn 1843, a school was constructed of logs along The Second. Little is known about this school; the log structure was replaced by a stone schoolhouse not long after its construction. When school sections were divided The Second was designated S.S. #5. The stone schoolhouse reportedly provided primitive accommodations, as it lacked a proper heating source and running water. The schoolhouse operated into the early 1900s when it too was replaced by a slightly more modern building. In 1949, a local named Andrew Wylie willed part of his land along the Second Concession for the construction of a new school. A brick school, called Wylie's School, was constructed in 1950 consisting of a single room and modern conveniences such as washrooms and electricity. Wylie's School closed in 1969.\n\nIn 1855, the Grand Trunk Railway was established nearby in Cardinal which allowed the community farmers to conveniently distribute their goods to larger markets in cities like Montreal. Around the same time a cheese factory, supplied by local milk, was established and operated well into the 1900s. Although farming was still the main industry, women began to be self-employed as weavers or seamstresses during the mid-19th century. No new businesses were established in The Second through to 1900; the community relied heavily on the village of Cardinal for services as well as travelling salesmen.\n\nIn the early 1900s, the community remained relatively unchanged from the previous century until the 1950s when the community began to feel a slow decline. Improved infrastructure lessened the communities dependency on agriculture and self-sustainability. At the end of the 1950s, the construction of Highway 401 disrupted the community; almost all of the farms along The Second had their northern sections severed off to accommodate the highway. Presently, The Second consists of mainly residential addresses and has no businesses currently in operation. Locally, the road and surrounding area is still often referred to as the \"Broken Second\" despite the community's steady decline.\n\nSpencerville West was the name given to the community located slightly north-west of Spencerville; the community extended west from the abandoned CPR tracks (one mile west of Spencerville) to the township border and encompassed the western ends of Dukelow and Goodin road. The designation of the community Spencerville West was first used by Spencerville United Church groups to more accurately define its congregation. The land in the area was settled by the mid–19th century, as the South Nation River branches off through the centre of the community, making ideal farm land.\n\nBy the late nineteenth century, the community consisted of many mixed-farming operations and a few businesses. A cheese factory was constructed around this time, which operated for a period of time as a joint business of the Ventnor factory ran by Millar and Ferguson. This cheese factory was in operation from 1874 until 1948 when it was closed and dismantled. Additionally, there was two orchards in operation, a cooperage, many small sugar bushes and an icehouse which sold cut ice blocks to farmers. The most notable sugar bush was that of the Drummond family, whose vast farm land was locally designated as Drummond's Hill during the 19th century. The Drummond family were prominent community figures who settled here before 1803; their sugar bush has sold maple sugar and syrup from the same property since around 1817. On the north side of County Road 21 along Keeler's Creek was a sawmill first operated by the Keeler family. The water-powered mill operated until the early 1920s when it was left abandoned, falling later into ruins.\n\nEarly into the settlement of the community, a church was erected by Methodists on property belonging to and donated by the Drummond family. This church was served by the same ministers as the Spencerville churches, and some in its congregation were from the neighbouring township of Augusta. In addition to the church, a Sunday school was built around 1815 next to the church called Union Sunday School or Union Sabbath School. The Sunday school was of brick construction and served the area Protestants. In 1876, the church was rebuilt out of brick as well; at this time, the church was known as Drummond's Methodist Church. Most of the building supplies for the church were donated, and labour was supplied by local volunteers. The church and school closed in the early 1900s and were later demolished with financial difficulties being cited as the reason. Today, a stone monument reading \"Drummond’s Union Sabbath School, 1815-1913\" stands on the site of the former church and school.\n\nWhen school sections were introduced in the mid-19th century, Spencerville West became a union school section with Augusta township, as the village of Roebuck in located on the other side of the township border. In Edwardsburgh this section was known as S.S. #19 (S.S. #25 in Augusta), with its schoolhouse being named accordingly, S.S. #19 Edwardsburgh/Roebuck School. It is unclear when the first S.S. #19 was built, however the first structure was replaced by a new one in 1870. The school served on average around 100 pupils from ages five to twenty years. Later, in 1896, an additional room was added and in 1960, washrooms were added. In the mid-1960s the school closed as transportation to larger, modern schools became available.\n\nIn the early 1900s, a sawmill was built on the south side of County Road 21 in the community by the McGuire family who operated this sawmill into the late 1900s. In the 1930s, a small general store was open for a brief period to serve the community of Spencerville West which sold dry goods and groceries as well as animal feed. The store was destroyed by fire in 1941 then rebuilt a year later. The store was later converted into a private dwelling before being demolished sometime in the mid-1900s to widen the road.\n\nPresently, Spencerville West consists mainly of farms and residential properties and it is not a listed community on most contemporary maps. The Drummond family still reside here operating their sugar bush and a small restaurant; maple syrup and sugar is sold and patrons are served dishes which can typically be served with maple syrup such as pancakes.\n\nEdwardsburgh/Cardinal is home to many small cemeteries and private family burial plots, most of which are over a century old. It is believed there are potentially many small family plots from the late 18th, and early 19th centuries that remain unknown within the township, as mortality rates in this time were much higher and early settlers needed to bury their dead quickly and easily; most people at this time were buried on the family property. Grave robbing was also an issue faced by early settlers, as fresh bodies could be sold for profit to those looking to practice medicine; burying the bodies of loved ones close to the homestead decreased the likelihood of anyone being tempted to steal the body. No grave markers were likely placed on these graves; any markers that would have been used in these times would likely have not survived two centuries. The oldest legible stone in the area can be found at North Channel Cemetery. The grave and stone belong to Jerusha Plumley, who was buried here in 1801. One of the earliest known burials in the area took place in the same cemetery a few years prior, in 1796. The grave is that of John McIlmoyle Sr., and though the dates were recorded the stone marker is no longer there.--\n\nThe following is a list of all the registered cemeteries, including private cemeteries, in Edwardsburgh/Cardinal:\n\nThere are around six private cemeteries located in the township on record; these cemeteries are from the mid-to-late 19th century and are small family plots that were erected on former homesteads. These small cemeteries are located on private property and therefore not accessible to the public. Along what was formerly The Front, the family of John Driver (d.1896) are buried along with Henry Bolton (d.1856), who was once a fairly prominent local figure; the burying place is known as Driver Cemetery. On the outskirts of Spencerville near Connell Road, there are two old family cemeteries in close proximity; one is a family plot for the Connell family, and the other the Stitt family. The stones in these family plots date from as far back as 1837. The Holmes Cemetery located near Pittston is a fairly large family plot, with over ten members of the Holmes family interred here. Many of the Holmes family stones are too decayed to read however the earliest confirmed interment was in 1849, and the most recent in 1910. The Kane Cemetery was located in Groveton on property originally owned by Isaac Wilson, and was the burying place of three of his relatives; including his mother, and two of his adult children who died as a result of a fever epidemic in 1850. In 1880, the grandson of Isaac Wilson built a small fence around the cemetery however the stone markers were later moved to Adams cemetery in Ventnor where they remain today. Near Clover Hill, a pioneer man named William Bush and his wife are buried on what was once their homestead.\n\nThe township is also home to a few cemetery vaults, four of which still stand. Also known as dead houses, these stone vaults were used to store bodies in cold-climate areas until the ground could be excavated for burial. The Shanly cemetery vault is located in close proximity to the hamlet's cemetery. This vault is in poor condition but still stands; it is estimated to have been built around 1876, the same time the Shanly cemetery was erected. There are two vaults located in Spencerville, the Spencerville Funeral Home vault and the Connell vault. The Connell vault is located just outside the village, on the Connell family's property. It was built in 1912 as a private family vault and remains a private structure today. The Spencerville Funeral Home vault is located on County Road 44 just south of the village. The vault was built in 1892, and according to \"The Prescott Journal\" in an article published August 24, 1893, the vault was built at a cost of $600 and had every modern convenience of the time in regards to vaults. As of 2008, the vault was owned by the Grant Brown Funeral Home of Spencerville and was still in use. St. Paul's Cemetery vault is located within St. Paul's Cemetery on the outskirts of Cardinal. It is believed this vault was built using stones salvaged from the St. Paul's Anglican church when it was dismantled in 1872. This vault was still in use as of 2008.\n\nAccording to 2011 census data, individuals aged 65 or older accounted for 17.6% of the population of Edwardsburgh/Cardinal; working aged individuals (those aged 15–64) accounted for 67.0% of the population. 15.4% of the total population were classified as children, and were ages 0 through 14 years. When compared to national percentages, the percentage of persons aged 65 or older in Edwardsburgh/Cardinal was nearly 3% higher than the overall percentage for Canada, while the percentage of children and working-aged individuals were both lower by approximately 1%. Comparing census data from 2006 and 2011, Edwardsburgh/Cardinal saw a population increase of 4%, and over one hundred new private dwellings were built.\n\nNational Household Survey data from 2011 indicates that 4.1% of the population of Edwardsburgh/Cardinal were foreign-born immigrants, while 95.8% were Canadian-born non-immigrants; there were no non-permanent residents identified within in the township. None of the immigrants identified were considered to be recent immigrants, meaning they immigrated here prior to 2006. The most common countries of origin reported were the United Kingdom and the United States, with the United Kingdom accounting for 29.8% of the immigrant population, and the United States accounting for 19.3%.\n\nAccording to the 2011 NHS data, 1% of the township's population were considered to be visible minorities; an estimated 70 individuals. The largest visible minority group in Edwardsburgh/Cardinal was Black. In contrast, the percentage of visible minorities living in Ontario was 25.9% of the population, with the largest minority group being of South Asian or Chinese descent. The three most frequently reported ethnic origins of the township's population were either solely, or a combination of Canadian, English, and/or Irish.\n\nIn 2011 in Edwardsburgh/Cardinal, 92.0% of the population spoke only English as a mother tongue; 4.5% of the population reported French, and 2.9% a non-official language, as a mother tongue. 97.6% of the population reportedly spoke mostly English while at home. The most common non-official language mother-tongue was Dutch, which accounted for 27.9% of the non-official language speaking population. In comparison, the most commonly reported non-official mother-tongue in Ontario was reportedly Italian.\nUpon the Loyalists first arrival in 1784, there was already two missionaries belonging to the Roman Catholic church in what would later be Upper Canada. Shortly after settlement, the British appointed chaplains to attend to the needs of both Anglican and Presbyterian Loyalists. Later on, Methodism was introduced to the area by ancestral German Protestants. These four religious denominations maintained strong influence in Edwardsburgh/Cardinal into the modern age.\nIn 2011, 81.5% of the population of Edwardsburgh/Cardinal associated themselves with a religion, according to National Household Survey data. The most common religion stated was Roman Catholic.\n\nIn 2011, 3,385 individuals of working age reported being employed while 370 individuals reported being unemployed. This means the employment rate was at 57.8% and the unemployment rate was around 9.9%.\nWithin the township of Edwardsburgh/Cardinal, the top three industries of employment were manufacturing, retail trade and construction. The top occupations were middle management positions in trade, transportation, production and utilities; transportation jobs and heavy equipment operation or repair, and sales representatives or salespersons. In the township, the percentage of workers aged 15 – 24 was 11.2% of the work force and the percentage of individuals aged 55–64 in the workforce was 15.5%. The majority of the work force is aged 35 – 54 years, accounting for 51.8% of Edwardsburgh/Cardinal's working age population.\n\nThe average commute for residents of Edwardsburgh/Cardinal is around 28.7 minutes which is close to the national average of 27.6 minutes. In the year 2011, only 0.3% of those living in the township used some form of public transportation to get to or from work; the national average being around 14%. 88.4% of the population used a car, truck or van as a driver while 5.9% reported being a passenger. 81.4% of working individuals reported working at their usual establishment while 6.9% worked from home and 11.2 have no fixed work address.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2000298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000298", "title": "Diffa Region", "text": "Diffa Region\n\nDiffa is one of the seven Regions of Niger, located in the southeast of the country. The capital of the region is Diffa.\n\nDiffa Region is situated in the extreme southeast of Niger between 10° 30’ and 15° 35’ longitude East and 13° 04’ and 18° 00’ latitude North. It covers 156 906 km², and it borders Agadez Region to the north, Chad to the east, Nigeria to the south, and Zinder Region to the west. The landscape is primarily Sahelian in the south, merging into the Sahara desert in the north of the region. In the far southeast can be found Niger's portion of Lake Chad; formerly extending as far west as N'guigmi, the lake has shrunk drastically in recent decades. In the southeast the Komadougou Yobe river forms part of the border with Nigeria.\n\nDiffa is the regional capital; other major settlements include Bosso, Chetimari, Dungass, Gueskerou, Goudoumaria, Kablewa, Mainé-Soroa, N'Gourti, N'Guelbély, N'guigmi and Toumour.\n\nDiffa Region is divided into three Departments:\n\nThe Region also includes three Urban Communes, a number of Rural Communes, four Cantons, and over twenty \"Groupments\" (administrative councils of nomadic communities). The Urban Communes are Diffa, Maïné-Soroa, N'guigmi; while the Rural Communes include Bosso, Chétimari, Goudoumaria, N'gourti, Kabléwa, Nguel beyli, and Gueskérou.\n\nThe population was estimated in 2000 at 216,245 and 346,595 inhabitants in the 2001 census; as of 2011 the population stood at 489,531. The population is 85% sedentary and 15% nomadic, practising seasonal migration with their livestock. The age range is 37% aged less than 20, 57% between 20 – 60, and 6% older than 60 years old. The total annual growth rate is around 1.2% and it is one of the least populated areas of Niger ( 2.2 people/km²). The main ethnolinguistic groups in the region are the Diffa Arabs, Fula, Hausa, Kanuri, Dazaga and Tedaga Toubou and Tuaregs.\n\nRefugees from Nigeria fleeing violence from Boko Haram are living with local populations in the Diffa Region. As of 11 June 11 2014, the International Rescue Committee (IRC) estimated that as many as 1,000 refugees a week were crossing the border into Diffa region; four out of five are women and girls. By October 2015 the number of Nigerian refugees in the region had risen to at least 150,000. After a lull in the fighting in 2017-18, violence increased in 2019, further worsening an already fragile security situation.\n\nThe economy of Diffa Region is primarily agricultural, based upon pastoralism and farming. The major crop, grown both for subsistence and sale, is millet, especially drought-tolerant varieties. One third of arable land is devoted to farming: almost 105,000 hectares farmed of the 299,500 hectares of arable land. Areas of the east and south also grow rice and maize. Irrigation in the valleys around Maïné-Soroa make this possible, as does the edge of Lake Chad (3,000 km² in the far east) and the seasonal Komadougou Yobe river valley in the south, which forms around 150 km of the border with Nigeria. Despite this the Diffa Region is among the most unproductive agricultural areas in Niger, and all of West Africa, making it especially vulnerable to drought and famine.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2000303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000303", "title": "Peter Desaga", "text": "Peter Desaga\n\nPeter Desaga was a German instrument maker at the University of Heidelberg who worked with Robert Wilhelm Bunsen. In 1855, Desaga perfected an earlier design of the laboratory burner by Michael Faraday into the Bunsen burner. The Desaga family held the right to market the burner for generations, as part of an agreement made with Bunsen. The Bunsen burner was essential to the invention of the spectroscope by Robert Wilhelm Bunsen and Gustav Robert Georg Kirchhoff.\n\nPeter Desaga's son, Carl Desaga, founded C. Desaga.\n\nRetrieved November 9, 2011.\n"}
{"id": "2000305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000305", "title": "Yekaterina Vorontsova-Dashkova", "text": "Yekaterina Vorontsova-Dashkova\n\nPrincess Yekaterina Romanovna Vorontsova-Dashkova (; 28 March [17 March O.S.] 1743 – 15 January [4 January O.S.] 1810) was the closest female friend of Empress Catherine the Great and a major figure of the Russian Enlightenment. She was part of a coup d'etat that placed Catherine on the throne. Vorontsova-Dashkova was the first woman in the world to head a national academy of sciences and helped found the Russian Academy. She also published prolifically, with original and translated works on many subjects.\n\nBorn Countess Yekaterina Vorontsova, she was the third daughter of Count Roman Vorontsov, a member of the Senate, and was distinguished for her intellectual gifts. Her uncle Mikhail Illarionovich and brother Alexander Romanovich both served as Imperial Chancellors, while her brother Semyon was Russian ambassador to Great Britain, and a celebrated Anglophile. She received an exceptionally good education, having displayed from a very early age the abilities and tastes which made her whole career so singular. She was well versed in mathematics, which she studied at the University of Moscow. In general literature, her favorite authors were Bayle, Montesquieu, Boileau, Voltaire and Helvétius.\n\nWhile still a girl, she was connected with the Russian court, and became one of the leaders of the party that attached itself to the Grand Duchess Catherine Alexeyevna.\n\nBefore she was sixteen, she married Prince Mikhail Ivanovich Dashkov (1736–1764), a prominent Russian nobleman of Rurikid stock, in February 1759, and went to reside with him in Moscow. She learned Russian there to communicate with her in-laws. After the death of Prince Dashkov, she gave herself up to her children, to literature, and to politics.\n\nIn 1762, she was at Saint Petersburg and took, according to her own account, the leading part in the coup d'état by which Catherine was raised to the throne; however, this was discounted by Catherine in her letters. Another course of events would probably have resulted in the elevation of the Princess Dashkova's elder sister, Elizabeth, who was the former emperor's mistress, and in whose favor he made no secret of his intention to depose Catherine.\n\nHer relations with the new empress were not of cordial nature, though she continued to be devotedly loyal. She often disliked the men Catherine the Great chose to take as lovers, and often resented the graces and devotion shown to them by the Empress. Her blunt manners, her unconcealed scorn of the male favorites that in her eye disgraced the court, and perhaps also her sense of unrequited merit, produced an estrangement between her and the empress, which ended in her asking permission to travel abroad. Permission was granted, and shortly thereafter she departed, but remained a loyal supporter of Catherine, and the two women remained friends. The true cause of her request to leave was said to have been the refusal by Catherine the Great of her request to be appointed colonel of the imperial guards.\n\nHer husband having meanwhile died, she set out in 1768 on an extended tour through Europe. She was received with great consideration at foreign courts, and her literary and scientific reputation procured her the \"entrée\" to the society of the learned in most of the capitals of Europe.\n\nIn Paris, she secured the warm friendship and admiration of Diderot and Voltaire. She showed in various ways a strong liking for Britain and the British. She corresponded with Garrick, Dr. Blair, and Principal Robertson; and when in Edinburgh, where she was very well received, she arranged to entrust the education of her son, Pavel Michailovich, Prince Dashkov to Principal Robertson.\nShe lived in Edinburgh from 1777 to 1779, and donated a collection of Russian commemorative medals to the University of Edinburgh. Her son became an adjutant of Grigory Potyomkin.\n\nShe travelled in Ireland, where she can be seen watching a review of the Irish Volunteers in a picture by Francis Wheatley in November 1779. She was friends with Georgiana Shipley, daughter of Jonathan Shipley, in London. She met Benjamin Franklin in Paris on 3 February 1781.\n\nIn 1782, Dashkova returned to the Russian capital, and was at once taken into favor by the empress, who strongly sympathized with her in her literary tastes, and especially in her desire to elevate Russian to a high place among the literary languages of Europe.\n\nImmediately after her return, the princess was appointed Director of the Imperial Academy of Arts and Sciences (known now as the Russian Academy of Sciences). Theoretically the head of the Academy was always its President; however, Count Kirill Razumovsky, who had been appointed President in 1746 (when he was just 18) played only a nominal role in the Academy, and the actual leadership in the Academy, such as there was, belonged to successive Directors.\n\nDashkova was the first woman in the world to head a national academy of sciences. Although not a scientist herself, Dashkova restored the failing institution to prominence and intellectual respectability. This came at a critical time in the history of science, its transformation from what was called natural philosophy, often practiced by gifted amateurs, to a professional enterprise.\n\nIn 1784 Dashkova was also named the first president of the newly created Russian Academy. In this position, too, she acquitted herself with marked ability. She launched the Russian Academy's project for the creation of its 6-volume Dictionary of the Russian Languages, arranged its plan, and executed a part of the work herself.\n\nIn 1783 she was elected an honorary member of the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences, the first woman among this academy's foreign members, and its second female member after Eva Ekeblad.\n\nShortly before Catherine's death, the friends quarrelled over a tragedy which the princess had allowed to find a place in the publications of the Academy, though it contained revolutionary principles, according to the empress. A partial reconciliation was effected, but the princess soon afterwards retired from court.\n\nOn the accession of the Emperor Paul in 1796, she was deprived of all her offices, and ordered to retire to a miserable village in the government of Novgorod, \"to meditate on the events of 1762.\" After a time the sentence was partially recalled on the petition of her friends, and she was permitted to pass the closing years of her life on her own estate near Moscow, where she died on 4 January 1810.\n\nHer son, the last of the Dashkov family, died in 1807 and bequeathed his fortune to his cousin Ivan Vorontsov, who thereupon by imperial licence assumed the name Vorontsov-Dashkov. Ivan's son, Count Illarion Ivanovich Vorontsov-Dashkov, held an appointment in the tsar's household from 1881 to 1897 before gaining wide renown as a General-Governor of Caucasus from 1905 to 1915.\n\nBesides her work on the Russian dictionary, Princess Dashkova edited a monthly magazine, and wrote at least two dramatic works: \"The Marriage of Fabian\", and a comedy entitled \"Toissiokoff\". Her memoirs were published in French in Paris in 1804 (\"Mon Histoire\") and in English in 1840 in London in two volumes (\"Memoirs of the Princess Daschkaw, written by herself\"). The English version of her memoirs was edited by Mrs. W. Bradford. (This is Martha Wilmot, who lived with the princess from 1803-1808; her family missing her, elder sister Katherine Wilmot went to bring her home, but the pair decided to stay another couple of years.)\n\n\"The Princess and the Patriot: Ekaterina Dashkova, Benjamin Franklin and the Age of Enlightenment\" exhibition was held in Philadelphia, U.S.A., from February to December 2006. Benjamin Franklin and Dashkova met only once, in Paris in 1781. Franklin was 75 and Dashkova was 37. Franklin and Dashkova were both evidently impressed with each other. Franklin invited Dashkova to become the first woman to join the American Philosophical Society, and the only one to be so honored for another 80 years. Later, Dashkova reciprocated by making him the first American member of the Russian Academy. The correspondence between Franklin and Dashkova was the highlight of the exhibition.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2000310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000310", "title": "Dosso Region", "text": "Dosso Region\n\nDosso is one of the eight Regions of Niger. The region has an area of , with a population of 2,078,339 as of 2011.\n\nThe region of Dosso is the historic centre of the Dosso Kingdom, which had its capital at Dosso. Today the palace of the Sultanate of Dosso remains as a symbol of the aristocratic ruling class of the kingdom. The region was traditionally populated by Zarma people who are believed to have migrated from the Lake Débo area of what is now Mali during the time of the Songhai Empire.\n\nDosso border Tahoua Region to the northeast, Nigeria to the southeast (specifically Sokoto State and Kebbi State), Benin (Alibori Department) to the southwest, and Tillabéri Region to the northwest. The region's border with Benin is formed by the river Niger. Part of the Dallol Bosso valley runs through the region; part of this area is protected as the Dosso Reserve, and contain some of the last remaining herds of West African giraffe.\n\nDosso is the regional capital; other major settlements include Birni N'Gaouré, Dioundiou, Dogondoutchi, Falmey, Gaya, Loga and Tibiri (Doutchi).\n\nDosso is divided into 5 Departments (Boboye Department, Dogondoutchi Department, Dosso Department, Gaya Department and Loga Department), 5 urban administrative divisions (communes urbaines) and 38 rural administrative divisions (communes rurales), 1 province, 15 cantons and 3 nomadic grouping.\n\nLike most regions of Niger, the population of the region of Dosso has rapidly grown since independence. From 693,207 in 1977, its population increased to 1,018,895 by 1988, and to 1,479,095 by 2001. Dosso region has the third highest population density (61.4 inhabitants/km), below that of Niamey and Maradi regions. Most people live in rural areas, with only 10.4% of the population residing in urban areas. Other demographic statistics are similar to the national averages. The main ethnolinguistic groups are the Fulani, Hausa, Tuareg and Zarma (also referred to as 'Djerma'). The region is also a major centre of the Maouri, a Hausa sub-group who have retained their traditional animist belief.\n"}
{"id": "2000318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000318", "title": "Tahoua Region", "text": "Tahoua Region\n\nTahoua is one of eight Regions of Niger. The capital of the region is the commune of Tahoua. The region covers 106,677 km².\n\nTahoua borders Agadez Region to the northeast, Maradi Region to the southeast, Nigeria's Sokoto State to the south, and Mali (Gao and Kidal regions), Dosso Region and Tillabéri Region to the west. Much of the region lies with the Sahel, merging into the Sahara desert in the north. \n\nTahoua is the regional capital; other major settlements include Abalak, Bagaroua, Birni-N'Konni, Bouza, Illela, Keita, Madaoua and Tchintabaraden.\n\nTahoua is divided into 8 Departments:\n\n\nAs of 2011 the population of Tahoua Region was 2,741,922. The main ethnolinguistic groups are the Fulani, Hausa and Tuareg; the Tagdal language, thought to be a mixed Songhay-Tuareg language, is also spoken.\n\n\nhttp://www.stat-niger.org/statistique/file/Affiches_Depliants/Nigerenchiffres2014def.pdf\n\n"}
{"id": "2000320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000320", "title": "Rhyodacite", "text": "Rhyodacite\n\nRhyodacite is an extrusive volcanic rock intermediate in composition between dacite and rhyolite. It is the extrusive equivalent of granodiorite. Phenocrysts of sodium-rich plagioclase, sanidine, quartz, and biotite or hornblende are typically set in an aphanitic to glassy light to intermediate-colored matrix. \nRhyodacite is a high silica rock containing 20% to 60% quartz with the remaining constituents being mostly feldspar. The feldspar is a mix of alkaline feldspar and plagioclase, with plagioclase forming 35% to 65% of the mix. \nRhyodacite often exists as explosive pyroclastic volcanic deposits.\n\nRhyodacite lava flows occur, for example, in northwestern Ferry County (Washington), and at An Sgùrr on the island of Eigg in Scotland.\n"}
{"id": "2000327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000327", "title": "Zinder Region", "text": "Zinder Region\n\nZinder Region is one of the seven Regions of Niger; the capital of the region is Zinder. The Region covers 145,430 km².\n\nNumerous Palaeolithic and Neolithic remains, as well as cave paintings, have been found in the Termit Massif.\n\nZinder was the centre of the Sultanate of Damagaram, a powerful sultanate which dominated much of the surrounding region from the mid-18th century until the French conquest in the 1890s. Zinder was initially the capital of the Niger territory, however this was moved to Niamey in 1926 and thereafter Zinder declined in importance, though it remains an important regional centre.\n\nZinder Region is located in the southeast of Niger and covers 145,430 km². It borders Agadez Region to the north, Diffa Region to the east, Nigeria to the south (specifically, the states of Yobe, Jigawa and Katsina), and Maradi Region to the west. The landscape is primarily Sahelian in the south, merging into the Sahara desert in the north of the region. The terrain is predominantly flat, except for the Koutous Hills, which lie north of Kelle, and the Termit Massif in the far north of the region.\n\nZinder is the regional capital; other major settlements include Alakoss, Albarkaram, Bande, Boune, Dakoussa, Dan-Barto, Dantchiao, Daouche, Dogo-Dogo, Falenko, Gaffati, Gamou, Garagoumsa, Gouchi, Gouna, Goure, Guidiguir, Hamdara, Ichirnawa, Kantche, Kelle, Kolleram, Kourni, Kwaya, Magaria, Malawa, Matameye, Mirriah, Moa, Ollelewa, Sassoumbroum, Tanout, Tenhya, Tesker, Tsaouni, Yaouri and Yekoua.\n\nZinder is divided into 5 Departments:\n\nAs of 2012 the population of the Region was 3,539,764. The main ethnolinguistic groups are various Arab groups, Fulani, Hausa, Kanuri, Dazaga Toubou and Tuareg groups such as the Tayart Tamajeq. The Tagdal language, thought to be a mixed Songhay-Tuareg language, is also spoken.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2000346", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000346", "title": "AWA United States Heavyweight Championship", "text": "AWA United States Heavyweight Championship\n\nThe AWA United States Championship was a short-lived title in the early days of the American Wrestling Association. It started out as the NWA United States Championship promoted in the Chicago, Illinois from 1953 until 1958. in 1958 then champion Verne Gagne created the American Wrestling Association (AWA) based on Minneapolis, Minnesota and took the championship with him, claiming the lineage of the Chicago version. The Chicago promotion recognized Wilbur Snyder as their next champion, splitting the lineage into their own NWA United States Heavyweight Championship. The Minneapolis version of the championship was renamed the AWA United States Championship in 1960.\n\n"}
{"id": "2000351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000351", "title": "Jordan Hill Roman Temple", "text": "Jordan Hill Roman Temple\n\nJordan Hill Roman Temple is a Romano-Celtic temple and Roman ruin situated on Jordan Hill above Bowleaze Cove in the eastern suburbs of Weymouth in Dorset, England. Original amateur excavations on the site in 1843, by J. Medhurst, were followed by a series of excavations in the 20th century suggesting that the site was in operation between to the late 4th century.\n\nIn the 20th century the site became the property of the Ministry of Works and is currently in the guardianship of English Heritage.\n\nThis is a Romano-British type temple, with a square-plan building situated within a courtyard or precinct. The floorplan of the temple measured . The surrounding precinct measured and contained numerous deposits of animal bones, ceramics, and coins. The site may also have served as a late 4th-century signal station.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2000352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000352", "title": "Władysław Dobrzaniecki", "text": "Władysław Dobrzaniecki\n\nWładysław Dobrzaniecki (September 24, 1897 in Zielinka near Borszczów – July 4, 1941 in Lemberg, District of Galicia) was a Polish physician and surgeon.\n\nWładysław was since 1936 head of the Saint Zofia Children Hospital in Lwów, and since 1938 titular professor of surgery at the Lviv University. He was a precursor of plastic surgery in Poland.\n\nHe was murdered by the Germans in Lviv during the Massacre of Lvov professors.\n"}
{"id": "2000353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000353", "title": "Retro Gamer", "text": "Retro Gamer\n\nRetro Gamer is a British magazine, published worldwide, covering retro video games. It was the first commercial magazine to be devoted entirely to the subject. Launched in January 2004 as a quarterly publication, \"Retro Gamer\" soon became a monthly. In 2005, a general decline in gaming and computer magazine readership led to the closure of its publishers, Live Publishing, and the rights to the magazine were later purchased by Imagine Publishing. It was taken over by Future plc on 21 October 2016, following Future's acquisition of Imagine Publishing.\n\nThe first 18 issues of the magazine came with a coverdisk. It usually contained freeware remakes of retro video games and emulators, but also videos and free commercial PC software such as \"The Games Factory\" and \"\". Some issues had themed CDs containing the entire back catalogue of a publisher such as Durell, Llamasoft and Gremlin Graphics.\n\nOn 27 September 2005, the magazine's original publishing company, Live Publishing, went into bankruptcy. The magazine's official online forums described the magazine as \"finished\" shortly before issue #19 was due for release. However, rights to \"Retro Gamer\" were purchased by Imagine Publishing in October 2005 and the magazine was re-launched on 8 December 2005.\n\n\"Retro Survival\" is a commercial CD retro games magazine put together by the freelance writers of \"Retro Gamer\" when Live Publishing collapsed. The CD was published in November 2005 and contains articles that would have appeared in Issue 19 of \"Retro Gamer\", as well as several extras including a foreword by celebrity games journalist Mr Biffo.\n\nIn June 2004, a tribute to \"Zzap!64\" was included, \"The DEF Tribute to \"Zzap!64\"\", celebrating the 20th anniversary of the Commodore 64 focused magazine.\n\nIncludes interviews with leading 80s and 90s programmers such as David Crane, Matthew Smith and Archer MacLean. Regular columns also feature such as Back to the 80s and 90s, Desert Island Disks (what games would a gaming celebrity take to a desert island) and From the Archives (a profile of a particular game developer or publisher).\n\nThe 'Making Of's' is a recurring feature in which well-known developers are interviewed about the creation and design process behind their games. Classic titles covered in past issues have included \"Breakout\" (Steve Wozniak), \"Dungeon Master\" (Doug Bell), \"Smash TV\" (Eugene Jarvis), \"Starfox\" (Jez San), \"Rescue on Fractalus!\" (David Fox/Charlie Kellner), \"Prince of Persia\" (Jordan Mechner), \"Berzerk\" (Alan McNeil), \"The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy\" (Steve Meretzky), \"Crystal Castles\" (Franz X. Lanzinger), \"Tetris\" (Alexey Pajitnov), \"Sheep in Space\" (Jeff Minter) \"Out Run\" (Yu Suzuki) and \"Splat!\" (Ian Andrew).\n\nIssue 48 (February 2008) contained an exclusive interview with \"Manic Miner\" creator Matthew Smith, written by freelancer Paul Drury after a visit to Smith's family home in Liverpool.\n\nMarch 2010 (issue 75) saw John Romero collaborating with \"Retro Gamer\", taking on the role of 'Guest Editor', taking charge of the magazine's editorial and splashing his own unique style to a number of his favorite articles and subjects throughout the magazine.\n\nThe magazine celebrated its 150th issue in January 2016 and as of November 2016, the staff consists of Editor Darran Jones, Production Editor Drew Sleep, Senior Staff Writer Nick Thorpe and Designer Sam Ribbits.\n\nThe magazine posts its own issue preview videos on its YouTube channel, featuring editor Darran Jones and Production Editor Drew Sleep as hosts.\n\nThree DVDs with 25 to 30 issues each have been released over the years:\n\n\"Retro Gamer\" is now available as an iOS app and can be downloaded onto iPhone and iPad.\n\nRetro Gamer won Best Magazine at the 2010 Games Media Awards.\n\n"}
{"id": "2000354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000354", "title": "Frank Randle", "text": "Frank Randle\n\nFrank Randle (born Arthur Hughes, also known as Arthur McEvoy or Arthur Twist; 30 January 1901 – 7 July 1957) was an English comedian. A contemporary of fellow Lancastrians George Formby and Gracie Fields, he was regarded as more subversive, perhaps explaining why the immense popularity he enjoyed during his lifetime has not survived him.\n\nRandle was born in Aspull, near Wigan, Lancashire, to an unmarried Rhoda Heathcoate Hughes. He left school aged 13 and worked in a variety of menial jobs until two years later when he joined an acrobatic troupe. He took the name Arthur McEvoy after his mother married Richard McEvoy. In 1928 Randle began to tour as a comedian, principally in Lancashire and Northern England. Randle appeared on stage carrying a red warning lamp, similar to the type found around road works, declaring \"Look what some dam'd fool left in’t road\". He developed his own show, \"Randle's Scandals\", which in the 1950s featured Roy Castle.\n\nRandle's mischievous wit led to a running conflict with Harry Barnes, a police chief of the Lancashire seaside resort of Blackpool, who frequently banned him from performing in the town's venues. He was prosecuted in 1952 on four charges of obscenity and fined £10 on each count. Randle responded to his critics in robust fashion, frequently throwing his false teeth into the audience and once bombarding Blackpool from an aeroplane with toilet rolls (according to an episode of Rude Britannia, broadcast by the BBC on 15 June 2010, the toilet roll bombardment actually took place over Accrington, not Blackpool). Randle's police charge sheet is lodged with Lancashire Archives.\n\nOn the outbreak of the Second World War, and having failed his medical to join the RAF, Randle joined the Home Guard and established a career in film. His iconoclastic portrayal of the underdog, flouting authority and disrupting the establishment, found a ready audience in a population suffering the privations of war. He took equity in John E. Blakeley's Manchester-based Mancunian Film Studios, appearing in eight of its productions. In his last film, \"It's a Grand Life\" (1953), his co-star was Diana Dors.\n\nWith the decline of Variety in the 1950s Randle's popularity faded. Pressed by debts and tax arrears, and suffering from the consequences of a life of alcohol abuse, he was made bankrupt by the tax authorities in 1955. He died in Blackpool of gastroenteritis in 1957 and is buried in Carleton Cemetery, Blackpool.\n\nHe had married May Annie Victoria Douglas, known as \"Queenie\", in 1928 in Greenwich, London. There were no children but Manchester artist Arthur Delaney was alleged to be Randle's illegitimate son by fellow performer Genevieve Delaney (also known as Eve Delaney).\n\nRandle's comedy achievement was celebrated in \"Grin up North\", a major touring exhibition that looked at the unique Northern sense of humour. He was most recently featured in an episode of BBC 4's \"Rude Britannia\" shown in June 2010.\n\nIn 2007 a celebratory plaque paid for by members of the Cuthbert Club was unveiled to Randle on Blackpool's North Pier. In 2010 the same organisation paid for the refurbishment of Randle's gravestone, which was unveiled in July 2010.\n\n\nNotes\nBibliography\n\n"}
{"id": "2000359", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000359", "title": "Desert Speedtrap", "text": "Desert Speedtrap\n\nDesert Speedtrap Starring Road Runner & Wile E. Coyote is an action game developed by Probe Entertainment, that was released in 1994 for the Sega Master System console and Sega Game Gear color handheld system.\n\nThe Road Runner must outwit the Coyote, while maintaining his strength by eating birdseed. While the premise is not unlike that of some other popular games for Game Gear and Mega Drive/Genesis, this platform game suffered in popularity due to difficulties encountered in controlling the Road Runner.\n\nFive reviewers on Electronic Gaming Monthly scored the Game Gear version an average score 7.4 out of 10, comparing it to an 8-bit version of Road Runner's Death Valley Rally. Four reviewers on GamePro scored the Game Gear version an average score 3.4 out of 5, criticizing its low quality graphics and music and it's hard difficulty.\n\nThe game was one of thirteen Master System cartridge games that could be chosen along with nine other games as a prize by members of the Super Juegos competition.\n"}
{"id": "2000361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000361", "title": "Omid Kordestani", "text": "Omid Kordestani\n\nOmid R. Kordestani (, born 1963) is an Iranian Kurdish-American businessman who has been the Executive Chairman at Twitter since October 2015. He was previously a Senior Vice President, the Chief Business Officer, and most recently a special advisor to the CEO and founders at Google from July 2014 to October 2015 and was a director of Vodafone from March 2013 to October 2014. Kordestani had also previously been at Google from May 1999 to April 2009, reaching the position of Senior Vice President for Worldwide Sales and Field Operations.\n\nOmid Kordestani was born in Tehran, Iran and grew up there attending Andisheh Don Bosco School, an Italian Catholic school in Tehran that emphasised education and language skills. He moved to San Jose, California after the death of his father in 1976.\n\nKordestani graduated from Buchser High school in 1980. He later received an electrical engineering degree from San Jose State University and went to work for Hewlett Packard as an engineer. Several years later in order to pursue a business degree, he entered Stanford Business School and earned his MBA in 1991.\n\nKordestani has more than a dozen years of high-technology consumer and enterprise experience, including key positions at Internet pioneer Netscape Communications. He was also vice president of Business Development and Sales and grew Netscape's website revenue from an annual run-rate of $88 million to more than $200 million in 18 months. He started his career at Netscape as director of OEM Sales, and during his four-year career at that company he was responsible for establishing major customer relationships with Citibank, AOL, Amazon, Intuit, Travelocity, Intel, @Home, eBay, and Excite. Prior to Netscape, Kordestani held positions in marketing, product management, and business development at The 3DO Company, Go Corporation, and Hewlett-Packard.\nHe joined Google in May 1999, leading the development and implementation of the company's initial business model and was Google's senior vice president of worldwide sales and field operations until April 16, 2009. Kordestani played a part in Google's worldwide revenue generation efforts as well as the day-to-day operations of the company's sales organization.\n\nOn July 18, 2014, Kordestani came back to Google to fill the vacancy of Chief Business Officer at Google after Nikesh Arora, who was recruited to Google by Kordestani himself, left for SoftBank. Initially interim, his post became permanent in October.\n\nOn October 14, 2015, Kordestani left Google and became Executive Chairman at Twitter.\n\nKordestani is one of the founders of PARSA Community Foundation, a Persian heritage, entrepreneurship and philanthropic society.\n\nKordestani net worth was estimated to be $1.4 billion in 2009, after his divorce from Bita Daryabari. Kordestani has two children with Daryabari, and two with Gisel Kordestani, whom he married in 2011. \n\nIn the May 8, 2006 issue of \"Time Magazine\", Kordestani was named one of Time's \"100 People who shape our world\".\n\nKordestani was selected as the Persian Person of the Year in 2007 by Persian Awards.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2000362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000362", "title": "Thomas Sydney Beckwith", "text": "Thomas Sydney Beckwith\n\nLieutenant-General Sir Thomas Sydney Beckwith (17 February 1770 – 15 January 1831) was an English officer of the British Army who served as quartermaster general of the British forces in Canada during the War of 1812, and a commander-in-chief of the Bombay Army during the British Raj. He is most notable for his distinguished service during the Peninsular War and for his contributions to the development and command of the 95th Rifles.\n\nHis father was Major General John Beckwith, who commanded the 20th Regiment of Foot. His brothers were Captain John Beckwith, Sir George Beckwith and Brigadier General Ferdinand Beckwith. He was also the uncle of Major-General John Charles Beckwith. He entered the Army himself in 1791, joining the 71st (Highland) Regiment of Foot, and served with them in India.\n\nIn 1817, he married Lady Mary Douglas, eldest daughter of Sir William Douglas, 4th Baronet of Kelhead. His wife, whose brothers Charles and John succeeded as Marquess of Queensberry, was elevated to the rank of a daughter of a marquess by royal warrant. Their only son, Thomas Sydney Beckwith, was a Captain in the Rifle Brigade, and died in Gibraltar on 21 March 1828.\n\nIn 1800, he was appointed to command a company in Colonel Coote Manningham's \"Experimental Corps of Riflemen\", which later was designated the 95th Regiment and subsequently the Rifle Brigade. He was promoted to Major within the Corps in 1802. The next year, he was promoted to Lieutenant Colonel and took command of the 1st Battalion. Beckwith was one of the favourite officers of Sir John Moore in the famous camp of Shorncliffe, and aided that general in the training of the troops which afterwards became the Light Division.\n\nHe served on the expeditions to Hanover in 1806 and Copenhagen in 1807, before joining the expedition to the Peninsula under Major General Arthur Wellesley. He took part in the Battle of Vimeiro, and the expedition into Spain under Sir John Moore, in which the Rifles bore the brunt of the rearguard fighting.\n\nThe next year, he returned to Portugal and was appointed to command the 1st Brigade of the Light Division. Beckwith took part in Craufurd's great march to the field of Talavera. In 1810, during the French invasion of Portugal, he was present at the Battle of the Coa and the Battle of Busaco. During the subsequent operations to drive the French from Portugal, he fought at the Battle of Fuentes de Onoro, and distinguished himself at the Battle of Sabugal.\n\nIn 1812, he was appointed Assistant Quartermaster General to the British forces in North America. As such, he commanded the troops which were sent to Chesapeake Bay in 1813. He had only one regiment of infantry and some undisciplined French former prisoners of war, the Independent Companies of Foreigners. \nAt the Battle of Craney Island, Beckwith's troops were repulsed by shore batteries while attempting to land. He subsequently captured Hampton, Virginia but the men of the Independent Companies misbehaved, giving Beckwith's troops an evil reputation for atrocities.\n\nIn 1814, he was promoted to Major General and appointed Quartermaster General to the troops in Canada under Sir George Prevost. Prevost's expedition into New York was defeated at the Battle of Plattsburgh. The Peninsular veterans in the force considered that Prevost and his staff (including Beckwith) were at least partly responsible for the defeat (in Beckwith's case, for failure to provide sufficient intelligence on the geography and enemy dispositions).\n\nBeckwith was made a Knight Bachelor in 1812 and a Knight Commander of the Order of the Bath in 1815. In 1827, he was made Colonel Commandant of his old corps, the Rifle Brigade.\n\nIn 1829, he was appointed Commander in Chief of the Bombay Army. In 1830, he was promoted Lieutenant General, but died of fever the following year at Mahableshwar.\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "2000364", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000364", "title": "AWA America's Championship", "text": "AWA America's Championship\n\nThe AWA America's Championship was a very short-lived title in the American Wrestling Association that was created to play upon Sgt. Slaughter's patriotism. It lasted for shortly over one year, from 1985 to 1986.\n\n"}
{"id": "2000367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000367", "title": "James Ferguson (Scottish astronomer)", "text": "James Ferguson (Scottish astronomer)\n\nJames Ferguson (25 April 1710 – 17 November 1776) was a Scottish astronomer. He is known as the inventor and improver of astronomical and other scientific apparatus, as a striking instance of self education and as an itinerant lecturer.\n\nFerguson was born near Rothiemay in Banffshire of humble parents. According to his autobiography, he learned to read by hearing his father teach his elder brother, and with the help of an old woman was able to read quite well before his father thought of teaching him. After his father taught him to write, he was sent at the age of seven for three months to the grammar school at Keith and that was all the formal education he ever received. \n\nHis taste for mechanics was about this time accidentally awakened on seeing his father making use of a lever to raise a part of the roof of his house — an exhibition of strength which excited his wonder. In 1720 he was sent to a neighboring farm to keep sheep, where he amused himself by making models of machines, and at night he studied the stars. Afterwards, as a servant with a miller, and then with a doctor, he met with hardships which rendered his constitution feeble through life. Being compelled by his health to return home, he then amused himself with making a clock having wooden wheels and a whalebone spring. When slightly recovered he showed this and some other inventions to a gentleman, who employed him to clean his clocks, and to make his house his home. He there began to draw patterns for needlework, and his success in this art led him to think of becoming a painter.\n\nIn 1734 he went to Edinburgh, where he began to make portraits in miniature, by which means, while engaged in his scientific studies, he supported himself and his family for many years. Subsequently, he settled at Inverness, where he drew up his \"Astronomical Rotula for showing the motions of the planets, places of the sun and moon, &c.\", and in 1743 went to London, England, which was his home for the rest of his life. He wrote various papers for the Royal Society of London, of which he became a Fellow in November 1763. He devised astronomical and mechanical models, like globes. Ferguson's globes were inspired by the early 18th Century globes of John Senex. Senex sold him the copper plates for his globe gores, but not the copper plates used for Senex's pocket globe gores. Consequently, Ferguson designed his own pocket globe, producing several editions. Ferguson had some Senex gores re-engraved by a certain James Mynde, showing Admiral Anson's voyages of the years 1740–1744.\nIn 1748, Ferguson began to give public lectures on experimental philosophy, which he repeated in most of the principal towns in England. During his time traveling in England, the well known London bookseller Andrew Millar arranged lectures for him in the spa towns of Royal Tunbridge Wells and Bath. Ferguson's deep interest in his subject, his clear explanations, his ingeniously constructed diagrams, and his mechanical apparatus rendered him one of the most successful of popular lecturers on scientific subjects.\n\nAs the inventor and improver of astronomical and other scientific apparatus, and as a striking instance of self education, he claims a place among the most remarkable Scottish scientists. \n\nDuring the latter years of his life he received a pension of £50 from the privy purse. He died in London on 17 November 1776 and was buried in St Marylebone churchyard.\n\nAlthough not as well known nowadays, Ferguson was widely influential in his own time. Thomas Paine mentioned him in his publication \"The Age of Reason\" and William Herschel studied astronomy from his books. The German experimental physicist Georg Christoph Lichtenberg admired Ferguson: \"Everything was done by experiments – he had not even chalk and sponge.\" \n\nFerguson's principal publications are:\n\nHis autobiography is included in the 1857 biographical dictionary of eminent Scotsmen and in \"Life\" by E. Henderson, LL.D. (first edition, 1867; 2nd, 1870), which also contains a full description of Ferguson's principal inventions, accompanied with illustrations.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2000368", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000368", "title": "Collaboration (magazine)", "text": "Collaboration (magazine)\n\nCollaboration is an American magazine dedicated to the spiritual and evolutionary vision of Sri Aurobindo and The Mother. The magazine was founded in 1974. Content includes articles, essays, poetry, and art. Topics range across the theory and practice of Integral Yoga, the place of humankind in the universe, consciousness, and transformation.\n\n"}
{"id": "2000369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000369", "title": "Swinton Lions", "text": "Swinton Lions\n\nThe Swinton Lions are a professional rugby league club based in Swinton, Greater Manchester, England, which competes in the Championship. The club has won the Championship six times and three Challenge Cups. Before 1996, the club was known simply as Swinton.\n\nThe club was formed in 1866 when members of Swinton Cricket Club decided to take up \"football\" in the winter to keep fit. Other than an annual challenge against the local Lancashire Rifle Volunteers from 1869, the only games played were amongst the club's own membership.\n\nIn 1871, they joined the Rugby Football Union as \"Swinton and Pendlebury F.C.\", playing their first game at Burying Lane against Eccles Standard. The team quickly became virtually unbeatable in the Manchester area and beyond. This rise in stature was surprising because Swinton and Pendlebury was a tiny colliery village with a few cotton mills, but it had a large number of local junior teams from which the club drew its talent.\n\nIn 1873, they moved from Burying Lane (Station Road from circa 1889) to a ground known as Stoneacre, and used the nearby White Lion public house as changing rooms. They have been known as the Lions ever since.\n\nHaving gone three years undefeated in the mid-1870s, the Lions gradually sought a tougher fixture list. In 1878, the club ventured into Yorkshire, and was soon travelling throughout England taking on opponents including Oxford University. Such was the Lions' success that by the mid-1880s Swinton had become recognised as a national force and were considered the strongest team in Lancashire. The first rugby match under floodlights took place in Salford, between Broughton and Swinton on 22 October 1878.\nIn 1886, they moved to Chorley Road. The new ground could accommodate much larger crowds and the staging of County matches added to Swinton's growing reputation. The Lions produced several England internationals and dozens more who gained representative recognition wearing the red rose of Lancashire.\n\nThey were initially reluctant to join the new Northern Union, but did so on 2 June 1896 due to the fact that the majority of other teams in the area had done so, causing financial hardship to the club. The Northern Union was then split into two county leagues, Lancashire and Yorkshire.\n\nIn 1900, led by Jim Valentine, they won the Rugby League Challenge Cup defeating Salford at Fallowfield, Manchester.\n\nOn Saturday 8 September 1906, Swinton hosted a Pontefract team who arrived with only 12 players. The Lions scored 18 tries in a club record 76–4 victory. This record would stand for ninety years but three months later when the Lions visited Pontefract they lost 5–0.\n\nThe period leading up to the Great War was not particularly auspicious for the Lions. Financial crisis followed financial crisis and only the sale of the main stand saved the club from closure during 1917. The war took the lives of 13 Swinton players, but back home the Lions played on throughout in a desperate attempt to stay afloat.\n\nLions' directors managed to call upon the support of local businessmen. The signings of Hector Halsall, a centre and future captain, and Albert Jenkins, a Welsh half-back, provided the catalyst. Throughout the 1920s the Lions got better and better, they beat the visiting Australasian team of the 1921–22 Kangaroo tour of Great Britain 9–0. At last they won the Lancashire County Cup in 1925 before recapturing the Challenge Cup in 1926.\n\nThey then followed this with their first-ever Championship a year later, and in 1928 the team reached its zenith becoming the last team to secure \"All Four Cups\"; they were also the only side from Lancashire to achieve this feat (Hunslet and Huddersfield were the two other clubs). In addition to the Championship Trophy, the Challenge Cup, the Lancashire League and the Lancashire Cup; Swinton won a fifth cup, the Salford Royal Hospital Cup, which was competed for by Salford, Broughton Rangers and Swinton. Crowds in excess of 20,000 were commonplace at Chorley Road.\n\nUnder captain, Hector Halsall, the Lions were a side with a strong Welsh presence, with players like Billo Rees as well as the Cumbrian goal-kicking second row forward, Martin Hodgson who signed for Swinton in January 1927. Hodgson still holds the long distance penalty goal world record with a kick of 77¾ yards (at the Athletic Grounds, Rochdale Hornets, in April 1940).\n\nThe 1927–28 season saw the Lions sweep all before them. They topped both the Championship and the Lancashire League, having already defeated Wigan in the Lancashire Cup. In a tense Challenge Cup Final they squeezed past Warrington 5–3, and three weeks later the Holy Grail was achieved when they comfortably eased past Featherstone Rovers 11–0 to take the Rugby Football League Championship.\n\nA rent dispute in 1928 caused the club to search for pastures new. In 1929, the club then moved to a new stadium back near their original home off Station Road, taking the old stands with them. This new stadium's name was named after its location, Station Road. In March 1929, a 22,000 thousand crowd saw the Lions defeat Wigan in the first match on new turf. This soon became a favoured ground for major fixtures such as Test matches, Challenge Cup semi-finals, Lancashire Cup finals and Championship finals.\n\nFurther Championships were won in 1931 and 1935.\n\nSwinton won the Lancashire Cup against Widnes in 1940, but thereafter the war curtailed the promise of further progress. In 1941–42, Swinton abandoned the Lancashire League due to the Second World War and did not return until the 1945–46 season.\n\nThroughout the late 1940s, and the 1950s the Lions strove unsuccessfully to repeat former glories and often flattered to deceive, but the appointment of Welshman Cliff Evans as coach signalled a renaissance. Concentrating on a youth policy and training methods beyond his era, Evans began to model an exciting, young Swinton team. This new era saw some notable Welshmen in the Lions' ranks such as Rees Thomas, Ralph Morgan, Frank Osmond, Dai Moses, Ron Morgan and Graham Rees. Also in the 'swinging 1960s' years the Lions fielded real top class performers such as GB internationals Ken Gowers at full-back, Alan Buckley at left-centre plus his wing partner, John Stopford. During this same decade, local talent came to the fore with the likes of Graham Williams (scrum-half), Derek Whitehead (full-back/utility), Barry Simpson (2nd-row) and classy GB loose-forward Dave Robinson. During the second half of the decade other prominent players turned out for the Lions. Of these, perhaps the most worthy were stand-off Billy 'Daz' Davies, scrum-half Peter Kenny and 2nd-rowers Rod Smith (ex-Workington Town) and the highly respected Bill Holliday (ex-Whitehaven, Hull Kingston Rovers, Cumberland and GB). In fact it was the Lions 1960s quartet of Gowers, Buckley, Stopford and Robinson who were selected to play for the GB tourists on the 1966 tour to Australasia. Gowers was even given the honour of being awarded the position of tour vice-captain. However, some critics saw this as an apology for overlooking him when the previous tourists were chosen in 1962, when many believe he was easily the most outstanding player to wear a full-back's jersey in the British game.\n\nA proposal in 1960 to create a Manchester rugby league club at the former White City Stadium on Chester Road, Old Trafford, Stretford, received strong opposition from Salford and Swinton. Their protests were renewed when a match was staged there between a Manchester XIII (Salford and Swinton players) and the New Zealand tourists in September 1961 and the idea was subsequently dropped.\n\nSwinton made it to the final of the Lancashire County Cup in three consecutive seasons 1960–61, 1961–62 and 1962–63 plus 1964–65 but lost to St. Helens on each occasion at Central Park, Wigan. However, by the end of the 1960s they finally lifted the trophy after overcoming a strong Leigh side 11-2 led by Alex Murphy. Their victorious captain that early November day in 1969 at Central Park, Wigan was long serving dependable right-centre Bob Fleet.\n\nSwinton became Champions of the Rugby Football League Championship in the 1962–63 season. Led by coach Cliff Evans and inspirational skipper Albert Blan, the team recovered from a slow start to complete the final backlogged 18 games (delayed due to the severe winter weather) of a 30-match league calendar undefeated to walk away with the Championship. Swinton's 6th Championship was retained in style 12 months later (1963–64).\n\nAs Swinton coach in the late 1960s/early 1970s, Albert Blan guided the team to a fourth and final Lancashire County Cup success in the 1969–70 Final against Leigh by 11–2 at Central Park, Wigan.\n\nWhen two divisions were reintroduced in 1973, Swinton were out of the top flight, and have struggled to regain their former glories ever since. By the end of the 1970s the club had hit rock-bottom, even though Station Road continued to host semi-finals and finals.\n\nInitially under Frank Myler, and then under Jim Crellin, the Lions briefly threatened a revival during the 1980s. Players such as Les Holliday (son of Bill) and Danny Wilson offered great hope for the future, but despite a Second Division Premiership success in 1987, three separate promotions simply brought about three immediate relegations.\n\nSwinton offered Leigh the option of a ground share at Station Road in June 1991 but they turned it down. In 1992, financial mis-management necessitated the sale of Station Road for property development. The club moved to Gigg Lane, Bury, the home of Bury F.C. In the Lions' last season at Station Road they were drawing crowds of 3,000 but this sudden move caused the club to lose many supporters.\n\nSwinton were saved from liquidation by a consortium headed by former chairman Malcolm White in January 1993.\n\nIn 1996, the first tier of British rugby league clubs played the inaugural Super League season and changed from a winter to a summer season. The rest of the professional game in Britain would follow this move to summer.\n\nIn 1996, Swinton officially added Lions to their name. Peter Roe led Swinton to promotion from Division Two in 1996. The former Great Britain captain, Mike Gregory was the head coach of the club between 1998 and 2001. The popular but ultimately disastrous reign of Tony Humphreys followed in the early period of 2002. Humphreys was sacked in late May 2002 and replaced by former player Phil Veivers. Under the guidance of Veivers performances and result improved significantly and the Lions finished in a promotional playoff position. Only a loss to Sheffield Eagles denied the Lions the opportunity of promotion to National League One.\n\nThe financial failure of major creditor and de facto owner Hugh Eaves in 2002 put the future of the club in jeopardy, the chairman and benefactor Malcolm White resigned. The Swinton Supporters' Trust began life on 14 February 2002 in the White Lion public house and set about raising funds for the club. Shortly afterwards, Swinton were forced out of Gigg Lane by the financial problems of their landlords, Bury F.C.\n\nIn August 2002, the club were brought the club back to within one mile of the Swinton and Pendlebury border when they played their first match at Moor Lane in Kersal as tenants of Salford City F.C., after travelling to Leigh and Chorley to play 'home' matches. Unfortunately the football club would not grant Swinton a ten-year lease which would be required to enable much needed funding to bring the ground up to standard.\n\nIn 2004, the Lions moved to Park Lane, Whitefield, home of Sedgley Park R.U.F.C.\n\nPeter Roe quit as coach of Swinton Lions in September 2003, after less than a year in charge. He rejected a two-year contract to continue as the coach and general manager and left the National League Two club.\n\nIn 2006, the return to Swinton and Pendlebury was taken one step further when club chairman, John Kidd, announced on 9 August that the club had acquired a site to build a 6,000 capacity stadium with training facilities and community use in Agecroft, Pendlebury.\n\nIn May 2007, Swinton Lions went into administration for about 48 hours to restructure the club from top to bottom. A new company, Swinton Lions Rugby Club, was set up to remove problems with shareholdings from the previous administration. The club came under the stewardship of chairman, John Kidd and fellow directors Paul Kidd (chairman's son), Dave Roberts and Ben Jones.\n\nIn May 2009, John Kidd announced that he hoped to be in a position to apply for planning permission from the local council by the autumn. Once given approval by Salford Council it was envisaged that construction could be completed quickly.\n\nDuring the autumn of 2009 director Paul Kidd stood down as head coach and moved to his new role as director of rugby. It was also announced that the new player/coach for season 2010 would be Paul Smith with Ian Watson as his assistant player/coach. During the season, on 25 May 2010, Paul Smith announced his resignation from his head coach role and left to play for Leigh. He was replaced by Paul Kidd and Ian Watson.\n\nOn 26 September 2010, former Barrow coach Steve McCormack was confirmed as the head coach for the 2011 season with Ian Watson and Marlon Billy continuing in their roles as assistant coaches. Swinton played their home games for the 2011 season at the Willows, Weaste, Salford. Swinton went on to win promotion to the Co-operative Championship as Champions of Championship 1.\n\nAs of 7 June 2011 when the club hosted a fans' meeting at Moorside Social Club, Swinton, Mr Kidd stated that he expected that the building of the stadium should commence no later than New Year's Day, 2012 with completion set for the end of April (2012). However, the predicted return date of spring 2012 proved to be a somewhat optimistic and premature forecast. Ultimately the funding did not materialise and the club later relinquished its lease on the Agecroft site.\n\nWith Salford moving to a new stadium in Barton, Eccles, Swinton set up a ground-share with Leigh in the Co-operative Championship for the 2012 season and onwards whilst they await permission to build their own ground at Agecroft.\n\nOn 18 March 2013 the club announced the appointment of Gary Chambers as head coach. Gary, a teacher at Harrop Fold School in Walkden. By late 2013 the club was found to be in severe financial difficulties. Chairman John Kidd announced his resignation and hopes of saving the club were left in the hands of director David Jones and the Supporters' Trust. Alan Marshall and Stephen Wild were nominated by the Supporters' Trust to fill two positions on the new Board of Directors. Ian Watson took over as player-coach.\n\nIn January 2014, Salford City Reds owner Marwan Koukash announced his intention to revolutionise Swinton town centre via the development of St Ambrose Barlow RC High School. His plans were to include a 3,000 capacity stadium for the Lions on the site of the old school playing field, alongside new housing, restaurants and a hotel.\n\nIn June 2014, Ian Watson left to join Salford and John Duffy replaced him as head coach in July. A difficult season combined with drastic restructuring of the league structure left the Lions in the third tier of rugby league, League 1, in 2015. In October 2014 the club announced its intention to return to Park Lane, home of Sedgley Park RUFC as its home base for season 2015.\n\nFollowing their promotion from League 1 to the Championship in 2015, Swinton were forced to play their home league games in nearby Salford and Widnes as Park Lane (Sedgley Park RUFC) did not meet the minimum requirements for the Championship, before moving to Heywood Road, Sale. As of March 2016 the club has re-engaged with the project to establish a community stadium in the Agecroft district of Pendlebury.\n\nIn July 2017 after a very poor season on the field and serious financial problems off it, coach John Duffy departed and took a new coaching post with Featherstone Rovers after their man in charge, Jon Sharp left his post. He was immediately replaced by former player and assistant coach Stuart Littler.\n\nOn 5 September 2017 the club announced that former Leigh Director Andy Mazey owner of Greater Manchester based S. R. Waite Group would step in as the new club chairman. Since Mazey's arrival the board now includes former Manchester United Brand Manager Tony Sheridan, former Wigan Athletic footballer John Coyne, and Tecmark Managing Director Richard Heyes.\n\nIn September 2019 the club announced that they were seeking permission from the Rugby Football League to rebrand the club as Manchester Lions from the 2020 season onwards. The official name of the club would remain Swinton Lions but the branding and presentation would all become Manchester. The plan was met with considerable opposition including local councillors and the Mayor of Salford; threats of violence were also reported against the members of the board. As a result of the opposition the entire board resigned on 12 September 2019 with a sole interim director appointed to prevent the club going into administration; the Lions supporters trust were asked to take the club forward. A month later, on 2 October 2019, the RFL placed the club into special measures due to continuing uncertainties about the governance of the club.\n\n\nGains\nLosses\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2000386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000386", "title": "AWA International Television Championship", "text": "AWA International Television Championship\n\nThe AWA International Television Championship was a short-lived title in the American Wrestling Association from 1987 to 1989. It was filled with a several months long tournament and was defended on their television broadcast on ESPN.\n\nAs explained by Larry Nelson on the AWA Championship Wrestling show on ESPN, the first two wrestlers in the tournament to reach 50 points (with 5 points being awarded or deducted for a pinfall or submission victory or loss, and 2.5 points being awarded or deducted for a countout or disqualification victory or loss) faced off in the finals to determine the first champion.\n"}
{"id": "2000389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000389", "title": "Andrew Caldecott", "text": "Andrew Caldecott\n\nSir Andrew Caldecott (; 26 October 1884 – 14 July 1951) was a British colonial administrator.\n\nOn 27 September 1929, Andrew Caldecott became the Founder President of Rotary Club of Kuala Lumpur.\n\nAndrew Caldecott was born on 26 October 1884 in Boxley, Kent, United Kingdom. He was the eldest child of Rev Andrew Caldecott and Isobel Mary Johnson. His mother was the daughter of Rev Stenning Johnson. Lieutenant John Leslie Caldecott (1886 – 9 September 1914), Andrew's younger brother, had served in the Royal Garrison Artillery, who later served as the \"aide-de-camp\" to the Governor of Nyasaland. John participated in World War I and died on 9 September 1914 in Nyasaland, Africa (present-day Malawi) at the age of 28, with his remains buried at the Karonga War Cemetery.\n\nAndrew Caldecott studied at Uppingham School in Rutland and was awarded scholarships, enabling him to be admitted to Exeter College of the University of Oxford. He achieved outstanding academic results while in college and had been awarded scholarships. He gained a third class in Classical Honour Moderations and subsequently graduated with a Bachelor of Arts in Classics (second-class honours) in 1907. In 1948, he was conferred as an Honorary Fellow by Exeter College.\n\nUpon his graduation from college in 1907, Caldecott joined the Colonial Office in November of the same year and was posted to Malaya. He initially worked in Negeri Sembilan as a Cadet of the Federated Malay States (FMS). He served as Acting District Officer (DO) of Jelebu from 1909 to 1911. In 1911, he was appointed as Acting DO of Kuala Pilah, and was transferred back to Jelebu to serve as DO in the same year. He was re-appointed Acting DO of Kuala Pilah in the following year. In 1913, Caldecott was transferred to the Federal Secretariat in Kuala Lumpur and assumed the office of Deputy Controller of Labour. He subsequently held various positions, including Assistant Secretary (AS) to the Chief Secretary (1914 – 1916), 2nd AS to the Federal Secretary (1916 – 1920) and Acting AS to the colonial government (1920 – 1922). Caldecott went on leave from September 1922; he took up the \"ad hoc\" appointment as Malayan Commissioner at the British Empire Exhibition held at Wembley Park in the United Kingdom in 1924 and 1925. During the exhibition, he was in charge of the coordination of the Malaya Pavilion. Thereafter, he was conferred CBE by the British Government.\n\nAfter the exhibition, Caldecott returned to Malaya in March 1926 and worked as Town Planning Administrator and State Valuer of Ipoh; he was transferred to the Housing and Public Works Department Enquiry Committees as Chairman in December 1926. He was appointed Deputy Controller of Labour and Acting Under-Secretary to the Straits Settlements in July 1927, until 1928, when he was promoted to Secretary for Postal Affairs of the Straits Settlements and FMS as Officer, Class 1A. Since then, Caldecott had been assigned to serve in local authorities; he became Acting Resident of Negeri Sembilan in 1929 and Acting Resident of Perak from 1930 to 1931. He was appointed to serve as Resident of Selangor, until March 1932, when he was transferred back to the central government of FMS as Chief Secretary. He served as Colonial Secretary of the Straits Settlements from May 1933 to February 1934. On 17 February 1934, Caldecott worked as Acting Governor of the Straits Settlements and High Commissioner of FMS, when Sir Cecil Clementi, the then-Governor of the Straits Settlements retired due to illness. During his tenure as Acting Governor, Caldecott upheld Clementi's policy of decentralisation. He was re-appointed Colonial Secretary when Sir Shenton Thomas took office in 9 November 1934.\n\nDuring his time in Malaya, Caldecott earned a reputation for his ability to settle disputes between different ethnic groups which made him popular with all races, a rare feat for a colonial administrator given the diversity of the Straits Settlements population. He also served as the first president of the Football Association of Malaysia.\n\nIn 1935, Caldecott was appointed governor of Hong Kong. His tenure was the shortest in Hong Kong colonial history, for he was appointed the second last Governor of Ceylon a little more than a year later to handle the threat to the British administration caused by the overwhelming national liberation movement in Ceylon. When arriving in Hong Kong to assume the Governorship, Caldecott, unusually, elected to wear civilian dress, something that would not happen again until the arrival, in 1992, of the last colonial Governor, Chris Patten. His departure to Ceylon was met with dismay by the community as he had become a respected figure. Locals had petitioned to Foreign Secretary Anthony Eden for him to remain but to no avail.\n\nIt was during Caldecott's tenure that Hong Kong's Kai Tak Airport received its first regular arrival, the \"Dorado\" and the Queen Mary Hospital opened as an adjunct hospital to the Hong Kong University (the hospital is now under the control of the Hong Kong Hospital Authority). Caldecott called the promotion of Chinese civil servants to replace the European ones, a policy not realized until the signage of Sino-British Joint Declaration in 1984. His tenure also saw the outbreak of the Second Sino-Japanese War, with more than 100,000 refugees from the Chinese Mainland flooding into Hong Kong to escape the conflict.\n\nHe was sent to Ceylon (Sri Lanka) to examine the situation in the island closely and report on issues such as the governing structure, the representation of the minority communities, the franchise etc. His observations regarding these issues had an important impact on the evolution of the Ceylon constitution. \n\nCaldecott was governor during the second world war. During his governance First diesel train ran to Galle in 1938, Bank of Ceylon opened in 1939 and the University of Ceylon established.\n\nCaldecott married Olive Mary Innes, daughter of J. R. Innes, CMG in 1918. He knew his wife while she served as a civil servant in Malaya. She died of illness in Ceylon in 1943. Following her death, Caldecott married Evelyn May Palmer, daughter of Dr J. Robertson and H. Palmer in 1946. Olive bore him a son and a daughter, namely John Andrew Caldecott, CBE (25 February 1924 – 14 July 1990) and Joan Caldecott. His son was the Chairman of M&G Group.\n\nCaldecott had a wide range of hobbies. He had published many articles with regards to the affairs of Malaya, and had written books about Malayan history in his early years. In his late years, he published two ghost novels. Besides writing, his other hobbies include drawing, playing the piano, tennis and golf.\n\nCaldecott composed the melody to the Negeri Sembilan anthem, Berkatlah Yang DiPertuan Besar Negeri Sembilan.\n\n\n\nIn Hong Kong, Caldecott Road, a road in New Kowloon, is named after him.\n\nIn Singapore, Caldecott Hill, Caldecott Close, Caldecott MRT station and Andrew Road are named after him, and Olive Road is named after his first wife.\n"}
{"id": "2000393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000393", "title": "Anti-prom", "text": "Anti-prom\n\nAnti-prom, also known as morp (\"prom\" spelled backwards), is a social event often staged by high school students as a protest against, or boycott of, their school's official prom, as an alternative celebration. Other times, it may be an unofficial prom, planned by the students themselves so that it is not under the control of the school. \n\nSome of the more common reasons for the creation of an anti-prom include the desire to curb the large cost of a traditional prom, to listen to music other than that expected to be played at the official prom, to have a smaller, more personal get-together, ones that cannot find a date or have been rejected for a prom date, don't like the food, or have looser and less strict rules than the school's (often relating to dress rules or alcohol consumption). Another common anti-prom is an unofficial dance set up by freshmen and sophomores as they cannot go to prom without a junior or senior. \n\nThe attendees of an anti-prom usually disagree with the values of the high school in-crowd who, stereotypically, organize the prom from the preparatory stages to the after-parties. In particular, anti-prom attendees protest what they regard as the vanity, excess, and conformity that the prom culture expects from students. Anti-proms do not follow any prescribed format, catering instead to the varied tastes of the large spectrum of students who feel dissociated from prom culture. Nevertheless, anti-prom participants are generally concerned with arranging social activities that are not only fun and enjoyable, but which also serve as an assertion of solidarity and of the legitimacy of social difference. \n\nSexual orientation and gender identity sometimes plays a role in leading students to form and attend an anti-prom (sometimes referred to as a gay prom or queer prom): lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, and questioning (LGBTQQ) students who feel that attending their school's traditional prom with a same-sex partner or not identifying in traditional gender identity fashion would be problematic might choose to hold their own gathering. Gay proms began to form in the 1990s, with one of the longest running and oldest being the Hayward Gay Prom, which was first held in 1995.\n"}
{"id": "2000394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000394", "title": "Reconstruction from zero crossings", "text": "Reconstruction from zero crossings\n\nThe problem of reconstruction from zero crossings can be stated as: given the zero crossings of a continuous signal, is it possible to reconstruct the signal (to within a constant factor)? Worded differently, what are the conditions under which a signal can be reconstructed from its zero crossings?\n\nThis problem has two parts. Firstly, proving that there is a unique reconstruction of the signal from the zero crossings, and secondly, how to actually go about reconstructing the signal. Though there have been quite a few attempts, no conclusive solution has yet been found. Ben Logan from Bell Labs wrote an article in 1977 in the \"Bell System Technical Journal\" giving some criteria under which unique reconstruction is possible. Though this has been a major step towards the solution, many people are dissatisfied with the type of condition that results from his article.\n\nAccording to Logan, a signal is uniquely reconstructible from its zero crossings if:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2000395", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000395", "title": "Rosa gallica", "text": "Rosa gallica\n\nRosa gallica, the Gallic rose, French rose, or rose of Provins, is a species of flowering plant in the rose family, native to southern and central Europe eastwards to Turkey and the Caucasus. It was one of the first species of rose to be cultivated in central Europe.\n\n\"Rosa gallica\" is a deciduous shrub forming large patches. The slender, straight prickles are various in size and frequency in this species The leaves are pinnately-compound, with three to seven bluish-green leaflets. The flowers are clustered one to four together, on glandular pedicels. Each flower has five or more petals, sometimes producing double corollas. The flowers are fragrant and deep pink. The hips are globose to ovoid, 10–13 mm diameter, orange to brownish.\n\nCultivars of the species \"R. gallica\" and hybrids close in appearance are considered as a cultivar group, the Gallica Group roses. Their exact ancestry is usually unknown and other species may be involved. They are easily cultivated. The Gallica Group roses share the vegetative characters of the species:\n\nPlants with semidouble deep pink flowers have been treated as either a variety, under the name \"R. gallica\" var. \"officinalis\", or as a cultivar, \"R. gallica\" 'Officinalis'. It is also called the apothecary's rose, the crimson damask rose, or the red rose of Lancaster. It is the county flower of Lancashire. A cultivar \"R. gallica\" var. \"officinalis\" 'Versicolor', with striped pink blooms, is also known as \"Rosa mundi\".\n\nThe names \"Rosa gallica\" f. \"trigintipetala\" or \"Rosa\" 'Trigintipetala' are considered to be synonyms of \"Rosa damascena\".\n\nIt was cultivated by the Greek and Romans and commonly used in mediaeval gardens. In the 19th century it was the most important species of rose to be cultivated, and most modern European rose cultivars have at least a small contribution from \"R. gallica\" in their ancestry.\n\n\"Rosa gallica\" is easily cultivated on well drained soil in full sun to semishade; it can survive temperatures down to −25 °C.\n\nThe following cultivars and hybrids have gained the Royal Horticultural Society's Award of Garden Merit.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2000396", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000396", "title": "Sri Aurobindo Ashram", "text": "Sri Aurobindo Ashram\n\nThe Sri Aurobindo Ashram is a spiritual community (ashram) located in Pondicherry, in the Indian territory of Puducherry. The ashram grew out of a small community of disciples who had gathered around Sri Aurobindo after he retired from politics and settled in Pondicherry in 1910. On 24 November 1926, after a major spiritual realization, Sri Aurobindo withdrew from public view in order to continue his spiritual work. At this time he handed over the full responsibility for the inner and outer lives of the \"sadhaks\" (spiritual aspirants) and the ashram to his spiritual collaborator, \"the Mother\", earlier known as Mirra Alfassa. This date is therefore generally known as the founding-day of the ashram, though, as Sri Aurobindo himself wrote, it had “less been created than grown around him as its centre.”\n\nLife in the community that preceded the ashram was informal. Sri Aurobindo spent most of his time in writing and meditation. The three or four young men who had followed him to Pondicherry in 1910 lived with him and looked after the household. Otherwise they were free to do as they wished. The Mother and French writer Paul Richard met Sri Aurobindo in 1914 and proposed that they bring out a monthly review; but after the outbreak of World War I, they were obliged to leave India, and Sri Aurobindo had to do almost all of the work on the review himself, helped a little by the young men who were living with him. In April 1920 the Mother returned to Pondicherry, and soon the community began to take the form of an ashram, more because the \"sadhaks\" “desired to entrust their whole inner and outer life to the Mother than from any intention or plan of hers or of Sri Aurobindo.” After the ashram was given formal shape in 1926, it experienced a period of rapid growth, increasing from around 24 in the beginning of 1927 to more than 150 in 1934. The membership leveled off in 1934 owing to a lack of suitable housing.\n\nDuring these years there was a regular routine. At 6:00 every morning the Mother appeared on the ashram balcony to initiate the day with her blessings. \"Sadhaks\" would have woken very early and completed a good portion of the day’s work including meditation and then assembled under the balcony to receive her blessings.\n\nAs the ashram grew, many departments came up and were looked after by the \"sadhaks\" as part of their \"sadhana\": the offices, library, dining room, book/photograph printing, workshops, sports/playground, art gallery, dispensary/nursing home, farms, dairies, flower gardens, guest houses, laundry, bakery, etc. The heads of the departments met the Mother in the morning and took her blessings and orders. She would meet the sadhaks individually again at 10 am and, in the evening at 5:30 pm, she would conduct meditation and meet the sadhaks.\n\nIn addition, four times a year Sri Aurobindo and the Mother used to give public Darshans (spiritual gatherings where the guru bestows blessings) to thousands of devotees gathered to receive grace.\n\nOnce confined to a few buildings in one corner of Pondicherry, the ashram’s growth has caused it to expand physically in all directions. Today Ashramites live and work in more than 400 buildings spread throughout the town. The central focus of the community is one group of houses including those in which Sri Aurobindo and the Mother dwelt for most of their lives in Pondicherry. This interconnected block of houses — called “the Ashram main-building”, or more usually just “the Ashram” — surrounds a tree-shaded courtyard, at the centre of which lies the flower-covered “Samadhi”. This white marble shrine holds, in two separate chambers, the physical remains of Sri Aurobindo and the Mother.\n\nToday, Pondicherry has become an important destination for spiritual seekers as well as tourists. Thousands of visitors from all over the world come to the ashram.\n\nThe visiting hours for the visitors are from 8 am to 12 noon and then again from 2 pm to 6 pm.\n\nThe Ashram, according to Sri Aurobindo, “has been created with another object than that ordinarily common to such institutions, not for the renunciation of the world but as a centre and a field of practice for the evolution of another kind and form of life which would in the final end be moved by a higher spiritual consciousness and embody a greater life of the spirit.”\n\nThe practice of Integral Yoga, Sri Aurobindo explained, ”does not proceed through any set mental teaching or prescribed forms of meditation, mantras or others, but by aspiration, by a self-concentration inwards or upwards, by self-opening to an Influence, to the Divine Power above us and its workings, to the Divine Presence in the heart, and by the rejection of all that is foreign to these things.”\n\nThe complete method of Integral Yoga aims to transform human life into a divine life. In Sri Aurobindo's yoga, the highest aim is the state of being one with the Divine, without the renunciation of life in the world. For such a fulfillment of the consciousness, the urge for perfection must not be confined to a few individuals. There must be \"a general spiritual awakening and aspiration in mankind\" as well as \"a dynamic re-creating of individual manhood in the spiritual type.\" This would lead eventually to the emergence of a new type of being, the gnostic being, which “would be the hope of a more harmonious evolutionary order in terrestrial Nature”.\n\nSri Aurobindo Ashram is the primary publisher of the works of Sri Aurobindo and the Mother. As of January 2015 it keeps some 200 publications in English in print, of which 78 are books by Sri Aurobindo, 44 books by the Mother, 27 compilations from their works, and 47 books by other authors. These books are printed at the Sri Aurobindo Ashram Press, which has been in operation since the 1940s. They are distributed by SABDA, the Ashram’s book distribution service, which has been in operation since the 1950s. SABDA also carries books relating to Sri Aurobindo, the Mother, and their yoga brought out by other publishers, making the number of English books on their list more than 600. The Ashram also publishes books in 17 other European and Indian languages, for a total of more than 550 publications. SABDA carries these and other non-English titles: in all there are 1678 titles in 23 languages.\n\nThe photographs of Sri Aurobindo and The Mother are printed in house and is available from Ashram reception service. Sizes are available to suit table top to large wall frames.\n\nThe Complete Works of Sri Aurobindo are being issued in 37 volumes, of which 34 have been published. The Collected Works of the Mother have been issued in 17 volumes.\n\nThe Ashram publishes a number of journals relating to the philosophy and yoga of Sri Aurobindo and the Mother. These are currently printed at the Sri Aurobindo Ashram Press, though several were earlier brought out in other cities. Some of Sri Aurobindo’s works first appeared in these and other journals, among them \"The Advent\", a quarterly, which has recently ceased publication. The most important journals in English are:\n\nThe Ashram press also prints several journals published by other organizations. These include:\n\nDuring the early years of the community Sri Aurobindo and the Mother imposed very few rules on the \"sadhaks\", because they wished them to learn to direct their lives by looking for the divine guidance within. After 1926, written rules were circulated. The main rules were an absolute prohibition of alcohol, drugs, sex and politics.There were also a number of guidelines for the smooth functioning of the collective life of the community. These rules were collected in Rules and Regulations of Sri Aurobindo Ashram, copies of which are given to all members.\n\nThe Sri Aurobindo Ashram Trust was established in 1955 to administer the community and its assets. The trust board consists of five Trustees, the first of whom were chosen by the Mother herself. After her passing in 1973, the trustees have chosen replacements by consensus.\n\nThe main ashram departments are overseen by department heads who report to the Trustees.\n\nThe Ashram, a public charitable trust, is open to all. No distinctions of nationality, religion, caste, gender, or age are observed. Members come from every part of India and many foreign countries. A large number of devotees from Pondicherry and Tamil Nadu visit the Ashram every day, and support the activities of the Ashram in various ways. Many say that they have benefited from the teachings of Sri Aurobindo and the Mother. However, some feel that there is little mingling of ashramites and local people. According to a senior Ashram official, the practice of silence observed by the ashramites may have been misunderstood as rude behaviour.\n\nIn compliance with the Central Government's Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013, the Sri Aurobindo Ashram Trust constituted an Internal Complaints Committee in April 2014.\n\nIn 2001, a female member was expelled from the ashram for violating a \"mandatory rule\". Thereafter she filed charges of sexual harassment against various members. These charges were dismissed by committees and government agencies, all of which found the charges false. The then chairperson of the National Commission for Women added that there \"appeared to be malicious planning behind the complaints\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2000403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000403", "title": "Ricky Phillips", "text": "Ricky Phillips\n\nRicky Lynn Phillips (born October 7, 1952) is an American bass guitarist and a member of the rock band Styx since 2003. He has also played in Nasty Habit, as a member of The Babys and Bad English, and with Coverdale-Page and Ted Nugent.\n\nPhillips and his former Bad English bandmate Neal Schon also played with former Montrose members Sammy Hagar and Denny Carmassi on a live version of the Montrose song \"Rock Candy\".\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2000410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000410", "title": "Drowned in Sound", "text": "Drowned in Sound\n\nDrowned in Sound, sometimes abbreviated to DiS, is a UK-based music webzine financed by artist management company Silentway. Founded by editor Sean Adams, the site features reviews, news, interviews, and discussion forums.\n\n\"DiS\" began as an email fanzine in 1998 called 'The Last Resort' but was relaunched by founder and editor Sean Adams as \"Drowned in Sound\" in 2000.\n\nThe freelance writing team is currently spread across four continents – North America, Asia, Europe and Australasia. The site is mostly based on contributions from unpaid writers and has an integrated forum to allow for discussion and comments on interviews, news and reviews. It also includes a user-rated database of artists and bands as well as details for most live music venues (big and small) in the UK. The site has over 60,000 registered members, and gets around 470,000 unique visitors per month.\n\nIn 2006 the site launched a podcast called \"Drowned in Sound Radio\".\n\nIn November 2007, DiS teamed up with ad-supported download site RCRDLBL.com to launch an audio and video blog, entitled \"Drownload\".\n\nDiS have been involved with Summer Sundae festival since 2008, and in 2010 kick off their 10th Anniversary celebrations with a line-up headlined by The Futureheads and Frightened Rabbit. Previously, they hosted the Friday night billing of the Rising Stage as being presented in partnership with Drowned in Sound.\n\nIn April 2019, Sean Adams posted on his personal Facebook page that the website will cease commissioning album reviews and features for the foreseeable future.\n\nA percentage of DrownedinSound.com (the web site) and the Drowned In Sound Recordings record label are owned by Silentway Ltd.\n\nDiS had a short-lived partnership with Rupert Murdoch's BSkyB, which ended by mutual consent in August 2008, making the majority of DiS's staff redundant in the process.\n\nOn 19 March 2006, The \"Observer\" \"Music Monthly\" ranked DrownedinSound.com 9th on its list of top 25 websites. In November 2006 it passed the 150,000 unique readers a week mark and was nominated in the Best Music Website category at the 2007 PLUG Awards and the Best Website category at the 2007 Shockwaves NME Awards.\n\nThe site and a handful of its writers received nominations at the 2006 Record of the Day awards, held in London on 21 November 2006. The site won in the category of Best Podcast and finished runner-up in the category of Best Website for the second year running.\n\nIn September 2007, DiS was nominated in two categories at the annual BT Digital Music Awards – best music magazine and best podcast (audio). In November 2007 DiS was named Best Online Music Publication at the annual Record of the Day awards. In 2010 Drowned in Sound won Best Publication at the Record of the Day awards.\n\n"}
{"id": "2000415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000415", "title": "Eugene H. Peterson", "text": "Eugene H. Peterson\n\nEugene Hoiland Peterson (November 6, 1932 – October 22, 2018) was an American Presbyterian minister, scholar, theologian, author, and poet. He wrote over 30 books, including the Gold Medallion Book Award–winner \"The Message: The Bible in Contemporary Language\" (Navpress Publishing Group, 2002), an idiomatic paraphrasing translation of the Bible into modern American English using a dynamic equivalence translation approach.\n\nPeterson was born on November 6, 1932, in East Stanwood, Washington, and grew up in Kalispell, Montana. He earned his Bachelor of Arts degree in philosophy from Seattle Pacific University, his Bachelor of Sacred Theology degree from New York Theological Seminary, and his Master of Arts degree in Semitic languages from Johns Hopkins University. He also held several honorary doctoral degrees. In 1962, Peterson was a founding pastor of Christ Our King Presbyterian Church (PCUSA) in Bel Air, Maryland, where he served for 29 years before retiring in 1991. He was the James M. Houston Professor of Spiritual Theology at Regent College in Vancouver, British Columbia, from 1992 to 1998. \n\nA controversy was created when Peterson was reported to have expressed support for religious same-sex marriage, which had been endorsed by his denomination, the Presbyterian Church (USA), in an interview published in Religion News Service on 12 July 2017. He denied saying this the following day and further clarified his position by stating:\nPeterson was hospitalized on October 8, 2018, after his health took an abrupt and dramatic turn. \"[It] was caused by infection\", said his son Eric Peterson in an email. Peterson had retired from public life in 2017 after publishing his final book, \"As Kingfishers Catch Fire\". This was around the same time as the same-sex controversy around him surfaced. In the days leading up to Peterson's death, his family is quoted as saying, \"During [his final] days, it was apparent that he was navigating the thin and sacred space between earth and heaven. We overheard him speaking to people we can only presume were welcoming him into paradise. There may have even been a time or two when he accessed his Pentecostal roots and spoke in tongues as well.\" Peterson remained \"joyful and smiling\" in his final days.\n\nPeterson died on October 22, 2018, at the age of 85, a week after entering hospice care for complications related to congestive heart failure and dementia.\n\nPeterson is probably best known for \"The Message: The Bible in Contemporary Language\". The stated goal of \"The Message\" was to make the original meaning more understandable and accessible to the modern reader. Peterson said:\n\nPastoral theology series\n\nPraying with the Bible series\n\nSpiritual theology series\n\n"}
{"id": "2000416", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000416", "title": "AWA World Tag Team Championship", "text": "AWA World Tag Team Championship\n\nThe American Wrestling Association (AWA) World Tag Team Championship was a professional wrestling world tag team championship in the American Wrestling Association from 1960 until the promotion folded in 1991.\n\nWhen the NWA Minneapolis Wrestling and Boxing Club operated by Verne Gagne withdrew from the National Wrestling Alliance in May 1960, Stan Kowalski and Tiny Mills were the recognized champions of the NWA World Tag Team Championship (Minneapolis version). At the time, the AWA continued to recognize the NWA champions as their World champions. However, by August 1960, and having recently recaptured the NWA Tag Team championships for a second time, Kowalski and Mills were recognized as the first AWA World Tag Team Champions when AWA stopped recognizing NWA champions.\n\nAs the promotion grew, the AWA World Tag Team Championship became one of the most coveted tag team titles in the United States from the beginning until the late 1980s, when the AWA's talent roster was depleted by the World Wrestling Federation and Jim Crockett Promotions. This led to the retirement of the titles when the AWA closed.\n\n"}
{"id": "2000420", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000420", "title": "Cessna 188", "text": "Cessna 188\n\nThe Cessna 188 is a family of light agricultural aircraft produced between 1966 and 1983 by the Cessna Aircraft Company.\n\nThe various versions of the 188: AGwagon, AGpickup, AGtruck and AGhusky, along with the AGcarryall variant of the 185, constituted Cessna's line of agricultural aircraft.\n\nIn the early 1960s Cessna decided to expand their already wide line of light aircraft by entering the agricultural aircraft market. They surveyed pilots and operators of other brands of agricultural aircraft to see what features and capabilities these operators were looking for. The resulting aircraft was a conventional single-seat, piston-engined, strut-braced low-wing agricultural airplane.\n\nThe Cessna 188 borrowed heavily from the Cessna 180, the initial version using the same tail cone and fin structure as well as the same Continental O-470-R 230 hp (170 kW) powerplant. The 188's airframe is predominantly built from 2024-T3 aluminum, with the chemical hopper constructed from fibreglass. The fuselage is of semi-monocoque construction and is lightly pressurized on later models (using the dynamic pressure resulting from the aircraft's forward speed) to reduce induction of chemicals into the airframe.\n\nThe Cessna 188 was first flown on 19 February 1965. The aircraft was certified and entered production in February 1966, with 241 aircraft delivered the first year.\n\nThe initial design of the Cessna 188 was so successful that over its 17-year production run the basic airframe remained unchanged. Only the engines and the agricultural products dispensing systems were upgraded, other than some minor changes to the ventilation systems.\n\nThe main use for the Cessna 188 series was for agricultural purposes, but many examples were later acquired for use as glider and sailplane tugs.\n\nA total of 3976 Cessna 188s of all four variants were built during its production run, made up of 53 AGpickups, 1589 AGwagons, 1949 AGtrucks and 385 AGhuskies.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2000422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000422", "title": "Democratic Union of Hungarians of Croatia", "text": "Democratic Union of Hungarians of Croatia\n\nThe Democratic Union of Hungarians of Croatia (, ) is a Croatian non-governmental organization that represents the Hungarian minority. It was established in 1993, and is headquartered in Osijek.\n\nDemocratic Union of Hungarians of Croatia political goals are demographic preservation of current numbers of Hungarians in Croatia, respect of Constitutional Act on the Rights of National Minorities in the Republic of Croatia and establishment of positive Croatia–Hungary relations. Party was part of ruling coalition in the municipality of Bilje together with Croatian Democratic Union but latter it canceled cooperation with that party in 2011. In 2011 party functionaries stated that they believe they can get into power in Kneževi Vinogradi to, where at the time the main concurrent \"Union of Hungarian Organisations\" was in power. They criticized the \"Union of Hungarian Organisations\" minority advocacy credentials in the field of protection of Minority languages of Croatia after they failed to introduce Hungarian language into official use into Kneževi Vinogradi at that time.\n\nIn the 2003 Croatian parliamentary election, they nominated one Jene Adam in the election for the special seat for the Hungarian minority and won one seat in the parliament.\n\nIn the elections of 2007, 2011 and 2015 they nominated Robert Jankovics but did not win the seat. At 2016 Croatian parliamentary election they again succeeded to win one seat in national minorities electoral District XII.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2000423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000423", "title": "Qizil", "text": "Qizil\n\nQizil may refer to:\n"}
{"id": "2000427", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000427", "title": "German People's Union – National Association of Danube Swabians in Croatia", "text": "German People's Union – National Association of Danube Swabians in Croatia\n\nThe German People’s Union – National Association of Danube Swabians in Croatia () is a Croatian organization representing the German minority, most obviously the Danube Swabians. Established in 1992, and headquartered in Osijek, the organization is active in a number of fields, most prominently culture.\n\nIn the 2003 Croatian parliamentary election, they nominated one Nikola Mak in the election for the special seat for the German minority and won one seat in parliament.\n\n"}
{"id": "2000430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000430", "title": "Qiongshan District", "text": "Qiongshan District\n\nQiongshan District, alternately romanized as Kiungshan, is one of 4 urban districts of the prefecture-level city of Haikou, the capital of Hainan Province, South China.\n\nAs Qiongzhou, formerly romanized as Kiungchow, the district was formerly a separate city which served as the center of Chinese administration on Hainan Island when it formed a part of Guangdong Province.\n\nDongzhai Port Nature Reserve is located in the district and has an area of . It includes six rivers, an irregular coastline, and a number of bays and tidewater gullies. The mangrove forest on the south coast provides a habitat for birds and other wildlife.\n\nMandarin is the official language of administration and education, but locals also speak Haikou dialect of Hainanese (a Min language), while other ethnic groups also speak the Qiongshan dialect of Lingao.\n\nQiongzhou University is located in this district.\n\nHai Rui, Ming official and namesake of Hai Rui Park, was from Qiongshan. Chen Yuyi, chairman of the CPPCC Hainan Provincial Committee, was born in Qiongshan in 1936.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2000439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000439", "title": "Queens Quay (Toronto)", "text": "Queens Quay (Toronto)\n\nQueens Quay [pronounced KEY] is a prominent street in the Harbourfront neighbourhood of Toronto, Ontario, Canada.\nThe street was originally commercial in nature due to the many working piers along the waterfront; parts of it have been extensively rebuilt in since the 1970s with parks, condominiums, retail, as well as institutional and cultural development.\n\nThe road supplanted both Front Street and Lake Shore Boulevard as the most southerly east-west corridor in the city when it was created on reclaimed land in the inner harbour. Sometime after 1919 to the early 1920s the inner harbour was filled in and new slips were created. \n\nQueens Quay continues to go through a significant transformation. Originally, it served as an access road for the various ports and slips in the inner harbour. The street between Yonge Street and Parliament Street was home to storage buildings devoted to trade on the Saint Lawrence Seaway, major industries such as the Redpath Sugar Refinery and Victory Mills, as well as small commercial enterprises. However, the mainly industrial uses along Queens Quay were slowly replaced by commercial and residential uses, mainly high-rise condominiums. Between 1975 and 1979, a cluster of large, concrete towers were erected at the foot of Bay Street, south of Queens Quay; these included the Westin Harbour Castle and Harbour Square. In 1990, the 40-storey York Quay towers were built and remain the tallest buildings on Queens Quay. The scale and density of these and subsequent high-rise development along Queens Quay were criticized for blocking the lake and failing to provide a welcoming realm for visitors. In 1997 City School (Toronto) relocated to 635 Queens Quay West. In 1999, the Toronto Transit Commission opened a dedicated streetcar right-of-way in the median from Bay Street to Bathurst Street.\n\nIn 2001, the city planners set out to improve Queens Quay by reclaiming public space for pedestrians and cyclists. This resulted in the Waterfront Toronto Central Waterfront Public Realm International Design Competition, which was completed in 2006. In August 2006, the city closed the two eastbound lanes, replacing them with bike lanes as part of the Martin Goodman Trail and additional pedestrian space. The experiment resulted in an improved public realm and more visitors to the overall waterfront area.\n\nIn 2009, Waterfront Toronto announced its plans to turn Queens Quay into a grand lakefront boulevard by placing streetcar lanes in the centre, traffic only on the north side and a pedestrian-focused space on the south side. The plan would restrict Queen's Quay to two traffic lanes, on the north side of the streetcar tracks, similar to the design of the 2006 experiment. Additionally, the plan calls for the beautification and extension of the Harbourfront streetcar line along Queen's Quay East between Yonge and Cherry Street. The transit right-of-way will be grass-covered.\n\nIn 2013 two open spaces opens, Ontario Square and Canada Square. The former is an open public space and the latter a green area. Both replace the former parking lot, which is now underground.\n\nQueens Quay is served by two streetcar lines, operating on a dedicated right-of-way. The 509 Harbourfront and 510 Spadina both terminate at Union Station and run along Queens Quay from Bay Street, westward. At Spadina Avenue, the 510 heads north to Spadina station, and the 509 continues west, bound for the Exhibition Loop.\n\nOriginally there was to have been an underground station in front of the Westin Harbour Castle Hotel and the Jack Layton Ferry Terminal,\nwith underground access to the hotel. This plan was cancelled when the hotel management became unwilling to share in the cost, and a smaller station was built around the corner under Bay Street.\n\nPlans to add a Queens Quay East light rail line are the subject of a class environmental assessment. Various bus routes currently serve portions of the eastern portion of Queens Quay: the 6 Bay operates from Bay Street to Jarvis Street, the 75 Sherbourne operates from Jarvis Street to Sherbourne Street, and the 97 Yonge and 320 Yonge Blue Night buses operate from Bay Street to Yonge Street.\n\nListed from west to east\n"}
{"id": "2000444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000444", "title": "Mawson Trail", "text": "Mawson Trail\n\nThe Mawson Trail is a long-distance cycling trail in South Australia starting just east of Adelaide in the Adelaide Hills and extending almost to Blinman in the Flinders Ranges. It is suitable for mountain bikes.\n\nThe Mawson Trail traverses remote areas of the Mount Lofty and Flinders Ranges, mostly away from bitumen roads, and often off-road on tracks and unmade road or forest reserves. It also passes through a number of country towns. It starts at the upstream end of the Torrens Linear Park on Gorge Road, leading into the Adelaide Hills, so that it is directly connected by dedicated pedestrian/cycleway to the coast at West Beach.\n\nBikeSA hosts a guided two-week tour of the entire length every second year.\n\nThe trail is named after explorer Douglas Mawson.\n\nThe route is generally described south-to-north, although it can be ridden in either direction. Signage along the route is provided for both directions.\n\nThe towns passed through are:\n\nMawson Trail Blog Article and full guide and maps\n"}
{"id": "2000445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000445", "title": "Mithymna", "text": "Mithymna\n\nMithymna () (, also sometimes spelled \"Methymna\") is a town and former municipality on the island of Lesbos, North Aegean, Greece. Since the 2011 local government reform it is part of the municipality Lesbos, of which it is a municipal unit. Before 1919, its official name was Μόλυβος - Molyvos; that name dates back to the end of the Byzantine Era, but is still in common use today.\n\nThe second most important town of the island, it is located NE of Eressos, N of Plomari and NW of Mytilene.\n\nThe town (pop. 1,399 at 2011 census) is on the northern part of the island, just some 6 km north of the popular beach town of Petra. One of the most noticeable features of the town is the old Genoese fortress on the hill in the middle of the town. The town's agora is located on the uphill road to the fortress and is popular among tourists, with many historic shops, cafés and restaurants.\n\nThe municipal unit of Míthymna stretches eastward from the town along the northern part of the island; it is the island's smallest municipal unit in land area at 50.166 km². Its population was 2,255 at the 2011 census. The next largest towns in the municipal unit are Árgennos (pop. 240) and Sykaminéa (207).\n\nMolyvos Beach is one of the Blue Flag beaches in Lesbos. The shoreline is pebbled, but the seabed consists entirely of soft sand and remains shallow for a considerable distance. The agora and fortress are visible from the beach.\n\nAs Methymna, the city was once the prosperous second city of Lesbos, with a founding myth that identified an eponymous \"Methymna\" (Greek: Μήθυμνα), the daughter of Macar and married to the personification of Lesbos. \n\nVery little is known about Methymna in the Archaic period. The story of Arion and the dolphin, which involves the Corinthian tyrant Periander and is evidently set at the turn of the 7th century BCE, suggests that Methymna was already a prominent city with far-reaching contacts across the Greek world at this period. Herodotus tells us that at some point in the Archaic period, Methymna enslaved the city of Arisba on Lesbos: this will have greatly increased the territory of Methymna, as well as giving it access to the fertile land around the Gulf of Kalloni. We are also told by a local historian, Myrsilus of Methymna, who wrote in the first half of the 3rd century BCE, that Methymna founded the city of Assos which was on the coast of Asia Minor opposite Methymna. However, another local historian, Hellanicus of Lesbos, writing in the mid-5th century BCE, instead simply says Assos was an Aeolian foundation and does not specify a particular city as its founder. This has led some historians to doubt Myrsilus, and instead suggest that this is an example of \"local Methymnaean manipulation of the past\", although this could equally be true of Hellanicus.\n\nMethymna had a long-standing rivalry with Mytilene, and during the Peloponnesian War it sided with Athens during the Mytilenaean revolt in 428 BCE when all the other cities of Lesbos sided with Mytilene. When the Athenians put down the revolt the following year, only Methymna was spared from having its territory turned into a cleruchy. After 427, Methymna and Chios were the only members of the Delian League to remain self-governing and exempt from tribute, indicating the privileged position Methymna held within the Athenian Empire. Methymna was briefly captured by the Spartans in summer 412, before quickly being retaken by the Athenians: in describing this episode, the historian Thucydides indicates that the Methymnaeans were much more inclined to side with Athens than Sparta. This was likewise the case in 411, when a group of Methymnaeans who were in exile at Cyme in Aeolis attempted to return to Methymna by force, but were rebuffed by the population. When the Spartan commander Kallikratidas besieged Methymna in 406, the city stayed loyal to its Athenian garrison and held out until it was betrayed by several traitors.\n\nOur knowledge of the history of Methymna in the 4th century is limited, but its prominence as a polis is firmly attested by the city's silver and bronze coinage. By at least the 340s BCE, the tyrant Kleommis had expelled the city's democrats and remained in power for the next decade. We do not know what happened to Kleommis after this, although it is likely that he was expelled when the island fell to Philip II's generals Parmenion and Attalus in 336. The political history of the following four years are poorly attested: we know that Lesbos changed hands several times between the Macedonian forces of Alexander the Great and the Persian forces of Memnon of Rhodes, that Memnon captured Methymna in 333 BCE, and that when Alexander's admiral Hegelochus recaptured Methymna in 332 BCE its tyrant was Aristonicus not Kleommis. However, it is not clear whether Aristonicus was made tyrant when the Persians recaptured Methymna in 335, or whether Kleommis was re-installed and Aristonicus only made tyrant in 333. Whatever the case, in 332 Alexander gave Aristonicus over to the newly restored Methymnaean democracy to try, and he was found guilty and put to death by torture.\n\nIn c. 295 BCE, Methymna struck silver drachms for King Lysimachus, indicating that the city was part of his kingdom at this time. However, by the 250s BCE at the latest, Methymna had come under the sway of the Ptolemaic Kingdom. During this period, a festival in honour of the Ptolemies, the Ptolemaia, was instituted, and public documents produced by the city were dated by the regnal years of the Ptolemies. Worship of Sarapis, an Egyptian cult patronized by the Ptolemies, was probably introduced to Methymna at this period, and remained an important part of the city's life for several centuries.\n\nIn the 2nd century BCE Methymna increasingly pursued a policy of seeking closer ties with the emerging power of Rome. Methymna remained loyal to Rome during the Macedonian War, and in 167 BCE it was rewarded when the Romans punished neighbouring Antissa for disloyalty and transferred its territory to Methymna. The territory of Methymna was ravaged by King Prusias II of Bithynia along with several other cities in this region in ca. 156 BCE, but the Romans later compelled Prusias to pay reparations of 100 talents for the damage done. In 129 BCE, an inscription from Methymna shows that the city formed a formal alliance with Rome. A dedication to the Galatian princess Adobogiona (fl. c. 80 - 50 BCE), who was the mistress of Mithridates VI of Pontus, a long-standing enemy of Rome, may indicate a cooling of relations between Methymna or Rome or simply political expediency.\n\nMethymna gained a particular reputation among Romans for viticulture during the Imperial period. Virgil speaks of the vines of Methymna as the best and most numerous on Lesbos, while Ovid invokes them as an example of something which is proverbially numerous and bountiful. The distinctive strong taste of Methymnaean wine is mentioned by Silius Italicus, and Propertius uses this as a point of reference when describing another Greek wine. When Virgil and Silius wished to indicate the exceptional quality of Phalernian wine, Methymnaean wine is among the vintages which they say it surpasses. We also learn from Horace that Methymnaean grapes were equally prized for the excellent vinegar which could be produced from them and which he describes accompanying a sumptuous eel dish. The medical writer Galen, who was a native of nearby Pergamon, considered all the wines of Lesbos to be excellent, but ranked that of Methymna the first in quality, that of Eresos second, and that of Mytilene third. In the novel \"Daphnis and Chloe\", thought to be by the Mytilenaean aristocrat Longus and set in the region of Lesbos between Methymna and Mytilene, the vine harvest is the most important time of the agricultural year, and the Mytilenaean owner of the land in this region times his annual visit to coincide with the end of this harvest when the year's profit can be established.\n\nThe first attested bishop of Methymna was Christodoros in 520 CE. In 640, Methymna was mentioned in the \"Ecthesis\", pseudographically attributed to Epiphanius of Salamis, as an autocephalous archdiocese, and around 1084, it was made a metropolitan see under Alexius I Comnenus. The Fourth Crusade brought Latin control, on the strength of which the Roman Catholic Church maintains a purely titular see of Methymna; there were 40 Roman Catholics in 1908.\n\nIn 840 the city was plundered by Cretan Arabs and many of the inhabitants sold into slavery. The fortifications of Methymna were strengthened following this attack, and again at the end of the 11th century, as we learn from a building inscription dating to 1084/5. A few years later in 1089/90 these fortifications helped the inhabitants of Methymna successfully repel an attack by Emir Tzachas of Smyrna. These fortifications again kept Methymna safe when the Genoese Lord of Phokaia, Domenico Cattaneo, seized the rest of Lesbos in 1335, but was unable to take Methymna or the equally well-fortified town of Eresos. Along with the rest of Lesbos, Methymna became a possession of the Gattelusi family in 1355. Methymna repelled an Ottoman invasion force in 1450, but its defences were over-powered in a second invasion in 1458 when the admiral Ismaelos seize the city with a force of 150 ships. Using Methymna as a base, the whole island was gradually brought under Ottoman control by September 1462.\n\nAs Molova under the Ottoman Empire, the city was a \"kaza\" of the \"sanjak\" of Metelin in the \"vilayet\" of Rhodes. \n\nAfter the defeat of the Ottomans in the First Balkan War (1912), the Greek navy liberated and incorporated Lesbos in the Greek Kingdom.\n\nThe province of Mithymna () was one of the provinces of the Lesbos Prefecture. Its territory corresponded with that of the current municipal units Mithymna, Agia Paraskevi, Eresos-Antissa, Kalloni and Petra. It was abolished in 2006.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2000446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000446", "title": "Tall Stories (band)", "text": "Tall Stories (band)\n\nTall Stories is an American soft rock band made up of singer Steve Augeri, who also sang for Tyketto and Journey, guitarist Jack Morer, bass guitarist Kevin Totoian and drummer Tom DeFaria. The band were formed in 1988 in New York, United States.\n\nTall Stories released a self-titled album on September 10, 1991 on Epic Records, and reunited briefly after Augeri's departure from Journey in 2008. \n\nTall Stories performed at Firefest V on October 26, 2008 in Nottingham, England. Their setlist included songs from their 1991 release, as well as new songs from the album, \"Skyscraper\", which was released on January 23, 2009, via Frontiers Records.\n\nPersonnel\n\n"}
{"id": "2000450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000450", "title": "Matthew Baillie Begbie", "text": "Matthew Baillie Begbie\n\nSir Matthew Baillie Begbie (9 May 1819 – 11 June 1894) was a British lawyer, politician, and judge. In 1858, Begbie became the first Chief Justice of the Crown Colony of British Columbia in colonial times and in the first decades after British Columbia joined Confederation as a province of Canada.\n\nBegbie served as the first Judge of the Supreme Court, Colony of British Columbia 1858 to 1866 and then, in the same capacity in the Supreme Court, the United Colonies of Vancouver Island and British Columbia from 1866 to 1870. He was Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of the United Colonies from 1870 to 1871 and then served as the first Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of the new Province of British Columbia from 1871 until his death on June 11, 1894.\n\nIn the years after his death, Begbie came to be known as the Hanging Judge.\n\nThe son of an Army Colonel, Begbie was born on a British ship en route to the island of Mauritius, where he lived until he was seven, returning with his parents to Great Britain where he pursued his education. From the age of eleven to seventeen he was educated at Elizabeth College, Guernsey where he held the school number 328. His brother Thomas Stirling Begbie (329) attended the school at the same time. Begbie received his first degree from Peterhouse at the University of Cambridge, where he studied mathematics and the classics. He was involved in a great number of extracurricular activities, including singing and acting in amateur productions, dining societies, playing chess, rowing, and tennis. After Cambridge, Begbie went on to study law at Lincoln's Inn. He established a successful law practice in London before heading to British Columbia for a new position in government.\n\nBegbie reached Fort Victoria on November 16, 1858. He was sworn into office in Fort Langley on November 19, as the new Colony of British Columbia was proclaimed. Given the influx of prospectors and others during Fraser Canyon Gold Rush and the following Cariboo Gold Rush of 1861, Begbie played a crucial role in the establishment of law and order throughout the new colony.\n\nBegbie was made a Knight Bachelor according to the London Gazette of November 19, 1875.\n\nDuring his years on the bench, Begbie traveled throughout British Columbia, on foot and later on horseback administering justice in sometimes informal circumstances but he is said to have always worn his judicial robes and wig when court was in session.\n\nDuring his early years, he played a role in government including drafting legislation such as the Aliens Act (1859), the Gold Fields Act (1859), and the Pre-emption Act (1860).\n\nIn 1860, Begbie found a white Californian man by the name of William Marshall guilty of assaulting a First Nations man based only on the testimony of First Nations people, the first time this had ever occurred. Begbie learned a number of Indigenous dialects and even conducted trials in those languages without the use of an interpreter. He had great friendships with a number of chiefs and he was clearly sympathetic when it came to trying to impose colonial law on Indigenous people. He recognized the concept of Aboriginal marriage and allowed an oath for truth telling that recognized Aboriginal beliefs. Begbie, a 19th-century Scotsman (born in colonial Mauritius), truly believed in the Scottish Enlightenment values of egalitarianism when it came to understanding and interacting with Aboriginal peoples. He allowed people of other cultures to swear an oath of truth on an object sacred to them in place of the Bible.\n\nIn 1864, Begbie presided over the murder trial of five Tsilhqot'in men who were part of the Chilcotin War. The five were found guilty by juries and sentenced to hang. Begbie did not pass judgment himself but he did pronounce the mandatory sentence as the law required him to do. In 2014, the British Columbia government exonerated the Chilcotin leaders. Premier Christy Clark stated, \"We confirm without reservation that these six Tsilhqot'in chiefs are fully exonerated for any crime or wrongdoing.\"\n\nHe was also an active naturalist. He was known to record observations during his travel, including drawing maps and bridge construction drawings. He sang opera. Begbie was implicated in land dealings at Cottonwood, between Quesnel and Barkerville, but denied any wrongdoing in what became known as the Cottonwood Scandal.\n\nBegbie continued his judicial duties well into his last illness, dying in Victoria, British Columbia on June 11, 1894. The funeral procession marking his death is said to have been unprecedented and intended to mark the passing of a man regarded as British Columbia's first citizen. Begbie was interred at Ross Bay Cemetery in Victoria, British Columbia.\n\n\"The Hanging Judge\" is a term that has been referred to Begbie, though never in his lifetime.\n\nBegbie ruled in 1886 that a law imposing very high licence fees discriminated against Chinese people even though it did not mention them, because laundries at the time were overwhelmingly run by Chinese. Another ruling with a similar logic two years later compelled the city of Victoria to renew the licences of Chinese pawnbrokers.\nA Vancouver school, Sir Matthew Begbie Elementary School, was also named in his honour.\n\nMount Begbie, the most prominent mountain seen from Revelstoke, was named in his honor. There are two other Mount Begbies in British Columbia; they are little more than hills although the one in the marshlands south of 100 Mile House has also given its name to the Begbie Summit, the highest point on the Cariboo Highway. There are also two lakes and a creek named for Judge Begbie.\n\nThere are several statues located throughout Vancouver, one outside the Law Society of British Columbia and one outside the Law Courts at New Westminster, British Columbia. The statue outside the Law Society of British Columbia will be removed after the findings of the Truth and Reconciliation Commission.\n\n(The family name Begbie originates in south-east Scotland, where it is most common in the Edinburgh and East Lothian areas. Begbie is derived from the Old Norse personal name \"Baggi\" + Old Norse \"býr\" 'settlement'. The small hamlet of Begbie, [55° 55'42.00\"N 2°48'55.00\"W], can be found adjacent to the larger hamlet of Samuelston, near to the town of Haddington, East Lothian).\n\nChief Justice of Vancouver Island David Cameron\n\n"}
{"id": "2000458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000458", "title": "Bearton", "text": "Bearton\n\nBearton was a small hamlet lying to the north of Hitchin in Hertfordshire, England. It was incorporated into Hitchin over a century ago, and now forms part of the Hitchin Bearton ward of North Hertfordshire District Council. In the UK Census 2011 the population of Hitchin Bearton was 8,489.\n\nThe name Bearton survives in a number of street names - Bearton Road, Bearton Green, Bearton Avenue and Bearton Close. Bearton Lodge, on the corner of Bedford Road and Bearton Road, dates from the early 19th century. In the First World War, it was used as the guard house for the Royal Engineers Signal Depot Camp. It is now in private ownership.\n\nThe ward of Hitchin Bearton elects three councillors to North Hertfordshire District Council. Traditionally it has been a Labour ward, but in the May 2010 district council elections the Liberal Democrats won their first seat in the ward.\n\nBearton Green was the name of a large area of land to the north of Hitchin. The name survives as a 1930s built residential road. Adjacent to Bearton Green is a playing field known locally as St Michael's, as it was once the playing field of St Michael's College. The college itself was on the site now occupied by Hitchin police station. \n"}
{"id": "2000461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000461", "title": "Fadak", "text": "Fadak\n\nFadak () was a garden oasis in Khaybar, a tract of land in northern Arabia; it is now part of Saudi Arabia. Situated approximately from Medina, Fadak was known for its water wells, dates, and handicrafts. When the Muslims defeated the people of Khaybar at the Battle of Khaybar; the oasis of Fadak was part of the bounty given to the Islamic prophet Muhammad, who gifted it to his daughter, Fatimah. Fadak is said to have become the object of dispute by a group of Muslims between Fatimah and the caliph Abu Bakr after Muhammad died.\n\nIn the 7th century, the Khaybar oasis was inhabited by Arab Jews, who made their living growing date palm trees. Some objects found by the Muslims in a redoubt at Khaybar — a siege-engine, 20 bales of Yemenite cloth, and 500 cloaks — point out to an intense trade carried out by the Jews.\nThe oasis was divided into three regions: al-Natat, al-Shiqq الشِّق, and al-Katiba الكتيبة, probably separated by natural diversions, such as the desert, lava drifts, and swamps. Each of these regions contained several fortresses or redoubts containing homes, storehouses and stables. Each fortress was occupied by a clan and surrounded by cultivated fields and palm-groves. In order to improve their defensive capabilities, the fortresses were raised up on hills or basalt rocks.\n\nMuhammad quietly led the march on Khaybar oasis on 7 May AH/ 629 CE with approximately 1500 men and 100–200 horses. Primary sources including the \"Sirah Rasul Allah\" (Biography of the Prophet) of Ibn Ishaq describe the conquest of Khaybar, detailing the agreement of Muhammad with the Jews to remain in Fadak and cultivate their land, retaining one-half of the produce of the oasis. This agreement was distinct from the agreement with the Jews of Khaybar, which essentially entailed the practice of sharecropping. Muhammad retained the revenues of the Fadak region for the poor as \"ṣadaqa\", travelers in need, and for his family. \nIt is not entirely clear how Muhammad managed his possession of Fadak. Ibn Taimiyya wrote in his Minhaj al-Sunnah that Muhammad appointed Amr ibn al-As as the governor of the Khaybar oasis \nFollowing the death of Muhammad, scholars disagreed as to whether Fadak was exclusively his property.\nSome Muslim commentators agree that following the conquest of Fadak, the property belonged exclusively to Muhammad, while several others reject this view. Various primary sources describe the acquisition of Fadak in the following way: \n\nHalf the Land of Fadak, which was given by Jews after the peace treaty, was purely the property of Rasool Allah (s). Similarly, 1/3rd of the Valley of Qari and 2 castles of Khaybar were the exclusive property of Muhammad (s) and no one else had a share of it.\n\nThe Apostle of Allah received three things exclusively to himself: Banu an-Nadir, Khaybar and Fadak. The Banu an-Nadir property was kept for his emergent needs, Fadak for travellers, and Khaybar was divided by the Apostle of Allah into three sections: two for Muslims, and one as a contribution for his family. If anything remained after making the contribution of his family, he divided it among the poor Emigrants. \nAnother primary account describes eleven fruit trees in Fadak, planted by Muhammad himself. Other scholars who accept the view of Fadak as belonging exclusively to Muhammad after the conquest of Khaybar include:\n\nUpon the death of Muhmmad, his daughter Fatimah declared her claim to inherit Fadak as the estate of her father. The claim was rejected by the ruling caliph, Abu Bakr, on the grounds that Fadak was public property and arguing that Muhammad had no heirs. Sources report that Ali together with Umm Ayman (Barakah) testified to the fact that Muhammad granted it to Fatimah Zahra, when Abu Bakr requested Fatima to summon witnesses for her claim. Various primary sources contend that Fadak was gifted by Muhammad to Fatima, drawing on the Qur'an as evidence. These include narrations of Ibn 'Abbas who argued that when the Qur'anic verse on giving rights to kindred was revealed, Muhammad called to his daughter and gifted the land of Fadak to her.\n\nVarious scholars commenting on the Qur'an, Chapter Al-Hashr, verse 7, write that the Angel Gabriel came to Muhammad and commanded him to give the appropriate rights to the \"“Dhul Qurba”\" (near kin). When asked by Muhammad, who the \"Dhul Qurba\" referred to, Gabriel replied \"Fatima\" and that by \"rights\" was meant \"Fadak\", upon which Muhammad called Fatima and presented Fadak to her.\n\nBesides the above Quranic verses, there some authenticated references for this issue. For example, Ali Ibn Burhanu'd-din Halabi Shafi'i writes in his Siratu'l-Halabiyya, p. 39 that at first Fatimah complained to Abu Bakr about the fact that she was given the fadak as a gift by the prophet of Islam, as the witnesses were unavailable she was forced to allege her right based on the inheritance law. Also it is mentioned in Mu'jam Al-Buldan of Yaqut al-Hamawi, Tafsir al-Kabir of Imam Fakhru'd-din Razi, Sawa'iq al-Muhriqa of Ibn Hajar p. 21, Sharh al-Nahju'l-Balagha of Ibn Abi'l-Hadid Mu'tazali Vol 4, p. 80 that Fatima firstly claimed she was given the fadak as a gift but they rejected her witnesses and she suffered and angrily said that she would not talk to Abu Bakr and Umar again.\n\nLesley Hazleton describes the dispute between Fatimah and Abu Bakr as follows: «[Fatimah] sent a message to Abu Bakr asking for her share of her father's estate -date palm orchards in the huge oases of Khaybar and Fadak to the north of Medina. His response left her dumbfounded. Muhammad's estate belonged to the community, not to any individual, Abu Bakr replied. It was part of the Muslim charitable trust to be administered by him as Caliph. [...] There was no denying the populist appeal of the message Abu Bakr sent by denying Fatima's claim: the House of Muhammad was the House of Islam, and all were equal within it.»\n\nWhen Umar became Caliph, the value of the land of Fadak along with its dates was 50,000 dirhams. Ali again claimed Fatima's inheritance during Umar's era, but was denied with the same argument as in the time of Abu Bakr. Umar however, restored the estates in Medina to `Abbas ibn `Abd al-Muttalib and Ali, as representatives of Muhammad's clan, the Banu Hashim. \nDuring Uthman's caliphate, Marwan ibn al-Hakâm, who was his cousin, was made trustee of the Fadak.\n\nAccording to Sunnis, Fadak was a piece of land, near Khaiber, where Jews lived. Fadak was conquered by Muhammad. The Qur'an says: “And that which Allah gave as spoil unto His messenger from them, ye urged not any horse or riding-camel for the sake thereof, but Allah giveth His messenger lordship over whom He will. Allah is Able to do all things. That which Allah giveth as spoil unto His messenger from the people of the townships, it is for Allah and His messenger and for the near of kin and the orphans and the needy and the wayfarer, that it become not a commodity between the rich among you. And whatsoever the messenger giveth you, take it. And whatsoever he forbiddeth, abstain (from it). And keep your duty to Allah. Lo! Allah is stern in reprisal. -(59: 6-7). Thus according to the Qur’an, Fai means such of properties of the unbelievers as are returned to the Muslims without war. It is not to be distributed like booty among the soldiers, but the whole of it is for Allah and His apostle. From the Sunnah and Practice of the Prophet of Islam it is evident that Muhammad himself used to manage Fai as the head of the Islamic republic.\n\nAccording to Sunnis, Muhammad didn't gift Fadak to his daughter. All the narrations regarding this are weak. As far as the claim of Shias is concerned, that when the verse of the Quran, \"And give the relative his right\", was revealed, the Prophet gave Fadak to his daughter as it was her right.\nBut, there are several famous Sunni scholars who specify that the revelation of 17:26 is about Fadak transmission from the Prophet to Fatima, such as: Razi, Suyuti, Khwarizmi, Ali ibn Abd-al-Malik al-Hindi and so on.\n\nFatimah However Agreed and Was Satisfied With The Decision of Abu Bakr after He Came to Fatimah's House and Discussed The Matter With Ali and Fatima.\nDarqutni,Ameer ul Mu'mineen Fil Hadith reports a narration From Umme Hani in his Al ilal,\nReporting of Fatimah the Hadith on the Authority of Abu Bakr Proves That She Was Satisfied.\n\nMu'awiyah, the first Umayyad Caliph did not return Fadak to Fatimah's descendants. This way was continued by later Umayyad Caliphs until Umar ibn Abd al-Aziz seized power.\nWhen Umar ibn Abd al-Aziz, known as Umar II, became Caliph in 717 CE, the income from the property of Fadak was 40,000 dinars. Fadak was returned to Fatima's descendants by an edict given by Umar II, but this decision was renounced by later caliphs.Umar II's successor, Yazid ibn Abd al-Malik (known as Yazid II) overturned his decision, and Fadak was again made public trust. Fadak was then managed this way until the Ummayad Caliphate expired.\n\nIn year 747 CE, a huge revolt against the Umayyad Caliphate occurred. The Umayyad's were eventually defeated by the Abbasid army under the rule of Abu Abbas Abdullah al-Saffah (see Battle of the Zab) in year 750. The last Umayyad Caliph, Marwan II, was killed in a lesser battle a few months after the Battle of the Zab, thus ending the Umayyad Caliphate.\nHistorical accounts differs on what happened to Fadak under the early Abbasid caliphs. There is however consensus among Islamic scholars that Fadak was granted to the descendants of Fatimah during Al-Ma'mun's reign as Caliph (831-833 CE). Al-Ma’mun even decreed this to be recorded in his \"(dīwāns)\". \nAl-Ma’mun's successor, Al-Mutawakkil (847-861) recaptured Fadak from the progeny of Fatimah, decreeing it to be used for the purposes initially outlined by Abu Bakr. Al-Muntasir (861-862), however, apparently maintained the decision of Al-Ma'mun, thus allowing Fatimah's progeny to manage Fadak. \nWhat happened hereafter is uncertain, but Fadak was probably seized by the Caliph again and managed exclusively by the ruler of the time as his private property.\n\nThe dispute over Fadak was narrated in various sources, some of which became almost legendary. Among these is the tale of the famed caliph of the One thousand and one \"Nights\" tales, Harun al Rashid, narrated in the 16th-century work \"Laṭā’if al-Tawā’if\" \"The Subtleties of People\", in which Harun is described as feeling regret over the denial of Fadak to Muhammad's family. Harun inquired about the boundaries of the oasis from a descendant of Fatima in order to return it to its rightful possessors. The descendant cautioned that after drawing the borders of the garden of Fadak, Harun would no longer want to relinquish it. Nevertheless, Harun pressed on. The descendant replied that the first boundary of Fadak was Aden, the second Samarqand, the third the Maghrib, and the fourth the Armenian Sea. These borders outlined virtually the entire empire of Harun. That Harun himself initiated the process of returning Fadak and was not pressed by Muhammad's descendants reveals that in the Shi’i conception, worldly possessions are of little to no importance to Muhammad's family or to the authority of the Imams.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2000465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000465", "title": "Anthony Musgrave", "text": "Anthony Musgrave\n\nSir Anthony Musgrave (31 August 1828 – 9 October 1888) was a colonial administrator and governor. He died in office as Governor of Queensland in 1888.\n\nHe was born at St John's, Antigua, the third of 11 children of Anthony Musgrave and Mary Harris Sheriff.\n\nAfter education in Antigua and Great Britain, he was appointed private secretary to Robert James Mackintosh, governor-in-chief of the Leeward Islands in 1854. He was recognised for his \"capacity and zeal\", and quickly promoted, administering in turn the British West Indies territories of Nevis and St. Vincent and the Grenadines.\n\nMusgrave was born to a slaveholding family. His father and uncles, were slaveholders who were compensated for their slaves upon the emancipation of slavery in the 1830s.\n\nAfter ten years of colonial service in the Caribbean, Musgrave was appointed governor of Newfoundland in September, 1864. Unlike his previous appointments, Newfoundland had responsible government and an active colonial assembly. He also found a colony in dire economic straits, containing a destitute population. During his tenure, Musgrave dedicated most of energies towards convincing Newfoundland to remedy this by joining the negotiations with other British North American colonies towards union in what would become the Canadian Confederation. In this project, he was allied with the goals of the colonial office. Despite his efforts, and what seemed like imminent success, Musgrave ultimately failed to move the colonial assembly to accepting terms of union. Canada was proclaimed on 1 July 1867—and Newfoundland would not join Confederation for eighty years.\n\nIn consultation with the colonial office and the Canadian Prime Minister, Sir John A. Macdonald, it was agreed that Musgrave should redirect his energies concerning the expansion of the Canadian confederation away from the easternmost colony of British North America, to the westernmost—the United Colonies of Vancouver Island and British Columbia. Following the death of Frederick Seymour, Musgrave took up his new responsibilities as colonial governor in August, 1869. Musgrave found a colony in an administrative and financial mess, with a fractious assembly, long-simmering disputes between the two colonies and their capitals – Victoria and New Westminster—and general frustration with the slow pace of negotiations for the colony to enter confederation. Musgrave proved to be both a capable administrator, and an able placater of the assembly's notoriously contentious members. In less than two years, in July, 1871, British Columbia joined Canada as its sixth province.\n\nMusgrave did a brief stint as governor of the South African colony of Natal.\n\nMusgrave's next posting was to South Australia. This proved to be a substantially less taxing appointment. During his tenure, Musgrave supported the assembly in its plans to borrow a large sum for the purpose of extensive railway construction, the imposition of additional taxation, and the introduction of a considerable number of immigrants into what was still a largely unsettled hinterland.\n\nAfter three and a half years in the antipodes, Musgrave returned to the Caribbean as governor of Jamaica. He would govern the colony for the next six years, focussing much of his attention on improving its cultural life. Under his administration, the government purchased Jamaica Railway Company and extended the line. Musgrave also initiated the Jamaica Scholarship, and was instrumental in establishing the Institute of Jamaica, dedicated to fostering and encouraging the development of arts, science, and literature. The Musgrave Medal, awarded by the institute for excellence in these fields, was named in his honour in 1897.\n\nMusgrave's last appointment was back in Australia, as governor of the colony of Queensland, where he arrived on 7 November 1883 in the Ranelagh. Like South Australia, Queensland enjoyed full responsible government, and Musgrave was more of a spectator of the political scene. He travelled with premier Samuel Griffith to visit the northern parts of the colony including Cooktown, Port Douglas, Cairns, Townsville, Charters Towers, Mourilyan Harbour, Cardwell, and Bowen. During this period, he was faced with responding to the action of the colony's premier, Sir Thomas McIlwraith, in \"annexing\" New Guinea as part of Queensland — an action repudiated by the colonial office.\n\nGovernor Anthony Musgrave was at the point of retiring from the colonial service when he died at his desk in Brisbane on 9 October 1888 from strangulation of the bowel. His funeral was held on 10 October 1888 at St John's Cathedral, after which he was interred in Brisbane's Toowong General Cemetery on the principal slope near to the grave of Governor Blackall, the location being personally selected by premier Thomas McIlwraith.\n\nIn May 1939, his grave was reported as unkempt and overgrown with weeds.\n\nHe married in 1854 to Christiana Elizabeth, daughter of the Hon. Sir William Byam of Antigua (she died in 1859). During his tenure in British Columbia, Musgrave married his second wife, Jeanie Lucinda Field who was the daughter of David Dudley Field. Their daughter, Joyce, died in South Australia during 1874.\nAccording to article in \"Air Clues\" May 1995, he also had three sons: Arthur David Musgrave b.1874 d.1931 (Served in the Army, ending the war as CRA 52nd Division, retiring as a Brigadier General), Herbert Musgrave DSO RFC and RE, b.11 May 1876 in Adelaide, S.Australia, d.2 June 1918 in German territory and Dudley Field Musgrave b.1873 d.1895 of Typhoid Fever in Bombay (Served in the Royal Navy reaching Lieutenant).\n\nAccording to www.biographi.ca Sir.Anthony was 3rd of 11 children.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2000468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000468", "title": "Petra, Lesbos", "text": "Petra, Lesbos\n\nPetra (Greek: Πέτρα meaning rock) is a former municipality on the island of Lesbos, North Aegean, Greece. Since the 2011 local government reform it is part of the municipality Lesbos, of which it is a municipal unit. It is located at the northwest of Lesbos and comprises the villages Petra, Skoutaros, Stypsi, Lafionas, Ypsilometopo and the settlements Petri and Anaxos.\n\nThe region combines exceptional natural beauties: olive groves and forests with pines, oak-trees, cypress-trees as well as fruit-bearing trees, traditional stone built mountain villages with running waters and rich vegetation, but also seaside modern summer holiday settlements with sandy beaches and crystal waters. Petra Lesvos is beginning to sprawl behind its broad, sandy beach and seafront square with a core of old stone houses, many with Levantine-style balconies overhanging the streets. Petra takes its name from the giant monolith located some distance inland and capped by the eighteenth-century church of Panagia Glykofiloussa, reached via 114 rock-hewn steps on the northeast side. The town of Mithymna is approx. 6 km to the north. The municipality has a land area of 72.479 km² and a population of 3,358 at the 2011 census. Its largest towns are Pétra, the municipal seat (pop. 1,208), Stýpsi (855), and Skoutáros (1,037). \n\n"}
{"id": "2000476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000476", "title": "Westfield Megabusa", "text": "Westfield Megabusa\n\nThe Westfield Megabusa is a British-made Lotus Seven inspired car with a 1,299 cc motorcycle engine, taken from the Suzuki Hayabusa, and six-speed sequential gearbox. The Megabusa is a road legal track car in at least some European countries.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2000477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000477", "title": "Bubión", "text": "Bubión\n\nBubión is a village in Las Alpujarras region of Granada in Spain. It is located at latitude 36° 57' N, longitude 3° 21' W, at 1,350 metres above sea level. Its postal code is 18412. Together with Capileira (to the north) and Pampaneira (to the south) it has become a focus for the tourist trade in La Alpujarra, because of the spectacular location of the three villages on the gorge of the Río Poqueira and below the peaks of the Sierra Nevada. The three villages, with their characteristic Moorish features - narrow, winding streets, flat roofs - have been designated as a \"Conjunto Histórico Artístico\", a region of special artistic and historical importance.\n\nBubión is thought to have been founded in Roman times, and in any case it certainly antedates the Moorish invasion of the 7th century. Under the Moors, it was under the authority of Ugíjar. In the 16th century, after the fall of Granada to the \"Catholic Monarchs\", the village participated in the rebellions by the Moors (or \"Moriscos\" - Moors supposed to have been converted to Christianity). In the second rebellion, which started in December 1568, Bubión was one of the first villages of the Alpujarra to fall to the Catholic forces, after a major battle in the Poqueira valley. Following their defeat in 1571, almost all Moriscos were expelled from the province of Granada. They were partially replaced by Christian settlers from other parts of Spain.\n\nIn the Spanish Civil War of 1936-39, Bubión and the other two villages of the Poqueira valley remained under Nationalist control, although Republican forces held the surrounding heights.\n\nThe most prominent building is the village church, built in the 16th century and remodelled in the following century. It is a simple structure in the mudéjar style.\n\nIn the census of 2001 Bubión's population was given as 610, consisting of 357 \"residents\" and 253 \"non-residents\" (i.e. with a home elsewhere). A substantial number of both categories did not hold Spanish nationality, the majority of them coming from other states of the European Union. The village had 170 tourist beds.\n\nThe GR 7/E4 European long-distance footpath runs through Bubión. In addition a network of walking trails link the three white villages and the Poqueira Gorge, ascending into the Sierra Nevada mountains and providing an approach to Mulhacén, the highest peak in continental Spain.\n\nBubión is served by a bus route from the city of Granada through Órgiva, continuing up the Poqueira valley to Capileira; then on through Trevelez and some further villages. There are three buses a day in each direction by Alsina Graells plus an extra bus to Orgiva on market Thursday at 9am. A limited service is available from Motril to Orgiva.\n\n\"Bubión - the story of an Alpujarran village\", by Michael Tracy (Hermitage Book, 2013).\n\n\"\" - update of the former.\n\n"}
{"id": "2000479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000479", "title": "Markus Stockhausen", "text": "Markus Stockhausen\n\nMarkus Stockhausen (born May 2, 1957) is a German trumpeter and composer. His recordings and performances have typically alternated between jazz and chamber or opera music, the latter often in collaboration with his father, composer Karlheinz Stockhausen.\n\nBorn in Cologne, he is the son of composer Karlheinz Stockhausen. At age four he appeared as \"child at play\" in his father's theatre piece \"Originale\". He received his first piano lessons at age six, and at age twelve he began to play the trumpet. He attended the music secondary school in Cologne.\n\nConcerts and festival appearances, also for the Goethe Institute, have taken him around the world. In November 2008 he gave the first performance of \"Freedom Variations\", a composition for trumpet and chamber ensemble written by Italian composer Lorenzo Ferrero.\n\n\nWith Rainer Brüninghaus\nWith Ralph Towner\n\n"}
{"id": "2000484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000484", "title": "Michele Navarra", "text": "Michele Navarra\n\nMichele Navarra (; 5 January 1905 – 2 August 1958) was an Italian member of the Sicilian Mafia. He was a qualified physician and headed the Mafia family from the town of Corleone in Sicily. He was known as \"<nowiki>'</nowiki>u patri nostru\" (our father).\n\nNavarra was born in the Sicilian town of Corleone in a middle class family; his father was a small landowner, a land surveyor and teacher at the local agrarian school. His uncle from his mother’s side, Angelo Gagliano, had been a member of the \"Fratuzzi\", as the local Mafia was known at the time and which consisted mainly of \"gabellotti\", local power brokers that leased large estates from absentee landlords, and subleased plots to peasants at excessive or abusive rates. He was killed in 1930.\n\nNavarra studied at the University of Palermo, first engineering and later medicine, getting his degree in 1929. He served in the Royal Italian Army until 1942, reaching the rank of captain. He became the boss of Corleone in 1943, succeeding Calogero Lo Bue. \n\nNavarra was the old fashioned type of Mafia boss: genteel, well dressed, but ferocious. He did not murder people himself, but delegated the work. From 1944-48, when he took over command of the Mafia in town, there had been 57 murders in Corleone. By skilful manipulation of the Mafia network of mutual aid and graft, he occupied several key positions in the establishment of Corleone, had powerful political connections and enjoyed a high status. He became the official medical adviser to the Ferrovie dello Stato (Italian State Railways), which was offered to him when, in public competition, he was the only candidate.\n\nFollowing the Allied invasion of Sicily in World War II (Operation Husky) in 1943, the Allied Military Government of Occupied Territories (AMGOT) granted Navarra the right to collect the military vehicles abandoned by the Italian army. Navarra used these to start a trucking company, which was vital to some of his operations involving the theft of livestock. In 1946 Navarra became the top doctor at the hospital in Corleone after his predecessor, Dr. Nicolosi, was conveniently murdered. A new large modern hospital in Corleone stood empty from 1952 to 1958 and was only put into service after the death of Navarra, the director of the old one.\n\nNavarra used his positions as director of the hospital to increase his power. In Corleone, people still talk of the blind electors of Navarra: On election day hundreds of men and women were struck blind; they pretended to have lost their sight. He issued certificates to the effect that they were blind or short-sighted and therefore had to be assisted in the act of voting in order to enable Navarra’s men to accompany them into the polling booth and check their ballot.\n\nFor a while Navarra sympathized with the Sicilian separatist movement, but he soon joined the Christian Democrat party in 1948.\n\nUnder the tutelage of Navarra, the young and upcoming Mafioso Luciano Leggio got his start, first in cattle rustling and clandestine butchering and subsequently as estate guard (\"campiere\"), before becoming a lease holder (gabelloto) of the estate at the age of 20, the youngest ever. When Leggio murdered the Socialist trade union leader Placido Rizzotto in March 1948, Navarra made sure to dispose of the only witness, Giuseppe Letizia, an 11-year-old shepherd. His father took the shocked boy to the hospital run by Navarra. The boy talked about the murder but died after an injection. Navarra was blamed by the press for killing the boy and thus eliminating a witness.\n\nNavarra was arrested for his involvement in the murder, but not convicted. He was sent into compulsory internal exile in Gioiosa Ionica, province of Reggio Calabria, for five years. However, thanks to his contacts with friendly politicians, he returned to Corleone in 1949. In Calabria he established close relationships with the charismatic 'Ndrangheta boss Antonio Macrì.\n\nMeanwhile his former underling Leggio developed his own rackets, independently from Navarra – transport, smuggling stolen cattle and selling the meat on Palermo’s wholesale market. From 1953-1958 Corleone recorded 153 Mafia related murders.\n\nConflicts of interest between Navarra and Leggio also arose over to a plan to dam the Belice river at the Piano della Scala near Corleone. Those who controlled the water supply throughout the neighbourhood of Corleone resented the plan. Springs in Sicily are private property and their exploitation, yielding large profits, is traditionally associated with Mafia power. Navarra represented the vested interests of those opposed to the dam, while Leggio favoured the construction of the dam. He expected to gain a monopoly of haulage work in connection with its construction.\n\nNavarra tried to have Leggio killed in June 1958. Leggio was invited by Navarra to meet him at an estate but instead he found fifteen armed men there. The hitmen hired for the task did a poor job and Leggio escaped with just minor injuries. The event left Leggio and his followers with the knowledge that they were as good as dead if they did not strike back soon.\nA few weeks later, on 2 August 1958, Navarra and a fellow doctor (Giovanni Russo, who had nothing to do with criminal activities) were both shot to death on an isolated country road as they drove home in Navarra's Fiat 1100. The car was blocked on the open road by two other vehicles and riddled by submachine-gun bullets. A few weeks later, on September 6, three men known as friends of Navarra were killed in a raid at Corleone. Reciprocal killings went on until 1963 and Leggio had to disappear having been condemned for the killing of Navarra. \n\nLeggio thus became the boss of the Corleone Mafia. Among Navarra's suspected killers were Bernardo Provenzano and Salvatore \"Totò\" Riina. Riina became the leading Mafioso in 1974 after Leggio was captured and sentenced to life imprisonment for his murder. His Corleonesi would continue to take over the Sicilian Mafia in the Second Mafia War in the 1980s.\n\nNavarra was the kind of Mafioso who was more interested in power than money. He left his widow a few plots of land and part of a house. The Antimafia Commission remarked that “the small size of his estate shows that Navarra has always aimed at power, rather than at money for its own sake … He often spent more than he brought in, both in his medical activities and in his career as Mafioso.”\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2000486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000486", "title": "Brimstone moth", "text": "Brimstone moth\n\nThe brimstone moth (\"Opisthograptis luteolata\") is a moth of the family Geometridae. The species was first described by Carl Linnaeus in his 1758 10th edition of \"Systema Naturae\". It should not be confused with the brimstone butterfly Gonepteryx rhamni.\n\nThis species is unmistakable within its range, with bright yellow wings marked with small brown patches along the costa of the forewing and a small brown-edged white stigma, also on the forewing. The wingspan is 33–46 mm. \"\"0. luteolata\" L. The only European species. The name-typical form has on the forewing red-brown costal markings at the base, at the discal mark and triangularly at the apex; faint, irregularly grey antemedian and postmedian lines, interrupted at the veins. Hindwing with dark discal dot and faint grey postmedian line. — \"aestiva\" Vorh. & Müll.-Rutz is a smaller, more deeply coloured summer brood form. It seems to be the principal or only form in Tunis. — ab. \"flavissima\" Krulik. is almost entirely yellow, only with slight remnants of the costal markings. — ab. \"albescens\" Ckll. has the ground colour pure white instead of yellow. Very pale yellow examples have been separated as \"intermedia\" Harrison. — ab. \"niko\" Chr. is according to. Staudinger an extraordinary aberration with both wings broadly fuscous margined and the basal part of the forewing brownish. Perhaps accidental, as the yellow of this species is highly susceptible to various kinds of chemical action.- \"provincialis\" Ob. is a pale, weakly marked form from Provence. — \"emaculata\" Graes. lacks the apical patch of the forewing. Prevalent in Central Asia, accidental elsewhere. — \"mimulina\" Btlr. has the cell-mark large, the lines strong, the 2 principal lines of the forewing ending in conspicuous red-brown spots on the hindmargin. N. India: Dharmsala etc.\"\n\nThe moth sometimes flies during the day but mainly at night, and is attracted to light.\n\nThe larva is brown or green with a \"horn\" on its back and feeds on a variety of trees and shrubs. Recorded food plants include apple, birch, blackthorn, currant, hawthorn, \"Prunus\", rowan, \"Amelanchier\" and willow. The species, due to its complex life cycle, overwinters either as a larva or a pupa.\n\nThe species has a complex ecology: sometimes one brood is produced each year but sometimes three broods are produced over a two-year period, with the result that adults can be seen on the wing at any time from April to October .\n\nThe brimstone is found throughout the Palearctic region and Western Asia.\n\nThe English zoologist Edward Bagnall Poulton, author of \"The Colours of Animals\" (1890) described countershading in insects including the caterpillar larvae of the brimstone moth. The American artist Abbott Handerson Thayer, generally considered the originator of the theory of countershading, credited Poulton with its partial discovery.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2000488", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000488", "title": "Fairy (brand)", "text": "Fairy (brand)\n\nFairy is a British brand of washing-up liquid, the manufacturer owned by the American company Procter & Gamble. the West Thurrock factory (The London Plant), in \nEngland. Fairy liquid is traditionally green, prompting the well-known advertising jingle \"Now hands that do dishes can feel as soft as your face with mild green Fairy Liquid\".\n\nAs of 2015, Fairy is sold in most parts of Europe, although regional names vary. Fairy liquid is available in a variety of colour and scent combinations. The original white bottle with red cap was replaced with PET bottles.\n\nIn the UK, \"Fairy Liquid\" has become a genericized trademark for washing up liquid.\n\nFairy soap bars were originally manufactured by Thomas Hedley Co. of Newcastle upon Tyne which was acquired by Procter & Gamble in 1927.\n\nIn February 2010, Fairy brought back the original washing up liquid bottle (which was used until 2000) to celebrate 50 years of the brand. Nanette Newman, who appeared in the 1980s TV advertisements returned for a new campaign to promote the launch.\n\nIn the United Kingdom and Ireland, Fairy is also a longstanding brand of non-biological laundry detergent, the original soap-based variant being known as \"Fairy Snow\". In recent years, Fairy Non-Bio also have added fabric conditioner to their product range. Like Fairy dish detergent, its traditional trademark is a walking baby.\n\nFairy was also a brand of soap in those countries, characteristically green in colour and available both in the form of larger rectangular 155g blocks for laundry and other household purposes and in the smaller rounded 125g size as toilet soap, where it used the same \"walking baby\" trademark as the laundry powder and was marketed as a pure, mild product. It was suddenly discontinued by the manufacturers in about 2009 to the disapproval of its faithful customer base.\n\nThe Fairy brand has expanded further from the soap-based products, and is now also used on automatic dishwashing products; the latest being \"Fairy Activebursts\". These are pouches of powder and specially formulated washing-up liquid, which are specifically designed for domestic dishwashers. There are also other variants, a power spray for cleaning pots and pans and for a period of time a foam/mousse was sold.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2000504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000504", "title": "Third rail of politics", "text": "Third rail of politics\n\nThe third rail of a nation's politics is a metaphor for any issue so controversial that it is \"charged\" and \"untouchable\" to the extent that any politician or public official who dares to broach the subject will invariably suffer politically. The metaphor comes from the high-voltage third rail in some electric railway systems. \n\nTouching a third rail can result in electrocution, so usage of the metaphor in political situations relates to the risk of \"political suicide\" that a person would face by raising certain taboo subjects or having points of view that are either censored, shunned or considered highly controversial or offensive to advocate or even mention.\n\nIt is most commonly used in North America. Though commonly attributed to Tip O'Neill, Speaker of the United States House of Representatives during the Reagan presidency, it seems to have been coined by O'Neill aide Kirk O'Donnell in 1982 in reference to Social Security.\n\nA wide range of issues might be claimed detrimental to politicians tackling them, but those below have all been \"explicitly\" described using the \"third rail\" metaphor:\n\n\n\n\n\nThe term OB marker (\"out of bounds marker\", a golf term) is widely used in Singapore for forbidden topics, such as:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2000514", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000514", "title": "Coat of arms of Serbia and Montenegro", "text": "Coat of arms of Serbia and Montenegro\n\nThe coat of arms of Serbia and Montenegro consisted of a shield with the Serbian eagle (a white double-headed eagle adopted from the Nemanjić dynasty) and the shield with a quartering the Serbian cross (or cross with firesteels) and the Montenegrin lion passant. This emblem had served as the national symbol of the State Union of Serbia and Montenegro (known as the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia until 2003).\n\nThe coat of arms was officially adopted by the federal parliament in 1993. It replaced the coat of arms of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia which had remained as the coat of arms of the newly-established Federal Republic of Yugoslavia from 1992 to 1993. Usage of the arms was discontinued in 2006, after the dissolution of the State Union of Serbia and Montenegro.\n\nThe legal acts which reconstituted the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia into the State Union of Serbia and Montenegro stipulated that a law was to be passed by the end of 2003 specifying the Union's coat of arms and anthem. Such a law was never brought forward, and unlike with the national flag and state anthem, no notable proposals for a new coat of arms were ever put forward. Thus the State Union continued to use the Yugoslav arms by inertia until its dissolution in June 2006.\n\nGules, a Two-headed eagle Argent, en surtout an inescutcheon, quarterly 1 and 4 a lion passant Or (Montenegro) and 2 and 3, a cross between four fire steels Argent. (Serbia)\n\nThe coat of arms was designed after the breakup of the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, to symbolise the new union consisting only of Serbia and Montenegro. Its design thus features the traditional heraldical elements connected historically with both countries.\n\nThroughout history, the arms of both Montenegro and Serbia have featured a double-headed eagle, usually silver, on a shield, usually red, bearing on their chests usually a red shield, which in Montenegro's case contained a golden lion while in Serbia's a cross with four firesteels, usually silver. Thus the arms of FR Yugoslavia were designed by combining these elements: the eagle is the symbol common to both countries, symbolizing their unity, the lions represent Montenegro and crosses with firesteels, Serbia. The red shield in the middle was divided into 4 parts, although the federation consisted of 2 federal units. This was done with the intention to accommodate any possible further expansion of the federation. \n\nThe coat of arms was initially proposed by Dr. A. Palavestra in 1992. The final, adopted version followed the same blason as the original proposal but differed in graphical style.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2000515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000515", "title": "Grand Masters of the Knights Templar", "text": "Grand Masters of the Knights Templar\n\nEach man who held the position of Grand Master of the Knights Templar was the supreme commander of the \"Poor Fellow-Soldiers of Christ and of the Temple of Solomon\" (also known as the Knights Templar), starting with founder Hugues de Payens in 1118. While many Grand Masters chose to hold the position for life, abdication was not unknown. Some masters chose to leave for life in monasteries or diplomacy. Grand Masters often led their knights into battle on the front line and the numerous occupational hazards of battle made some tenures very short.\n\nEach country had its own Master, and the Masters reported to the Grand Master. He oversaw all of the operations of the Order, including both the military operations in the Holy Land and eastern Europe, and the financial and business dealings in the Order's infrastructure of western Europe. The Grand Master controlled the actions of the order but he was expected to act the same way as the rest of the knights. After the Pope issued a Papal Bull on behalf of the Templars, the Grand Master was obliged to answer only to Rome.\n\n"}
{"id": "2000521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000521", "title": "Cleland Conservation Park", "text": "Cleland Conservation Park\n\nCleland Conservation Park is a protected area located in the Adelaide Hills, South Australia about south-east of the Adelaide city centre. Cleland Conservation Park conserves a significant area of natural bushland on the Adelaide Hills face and includes the internationally popular \"Cleland Wildlife Park\" and the popular tourist destinations of Mount Lofty summit and Waterfall Gully. It is maintained by the South Australian Department of Environment, Water and Natural Resources (DEWNR).\n\nThe conservation park was named for Sir John Burton Cleland (1878-1971), a renowned naturalist, microbiologist, mycologist and ornithologist, and member of the Royal Society of South Australia. After a career in medicine and pathology, Cleland became keenly interested in wildlife conservation.\n\nThe conservation park occupies land in the gazetted suburbs of Cleland, Crafers and Waterfall Gully.\n\nThe conservation park is classified as an IUCN Category II protected area.\n\nThe Wildlife Park is accessible by sealed road from both the South Eastern Freeway and Greenhill Road, and on foot on a formed but steep track from Waterfall Gully or Mount Lofty. A limited public bus service operates. A fee is payable to enter the Wildlife Park (but not to the Conservation Park except for car parking at Mt Lofty summit).\nFacilities include a souvenir shop, cafe and toilets. Many visitors pay to be photographed holding koalas. Several other options are available to visitors, including an Aboriginal guide on a Cultural Tour of the Yurridla Aboriginal Trail, which explains dreaming stories of dingoes, emus, koalas, Yurrabilla, the creation ancestor, and a nightwalk, uncovering the secrets of the bush.\nCleland Wildlife Park offers visitors an opportunity to walk through large enclosures and interact with Australian animals such as kangaroos, koalas and emus, and to see others including wombats, Dingo and many bird and reptile species.\n\nIn November 2017 a concept plan was announced by the Weatherill government to revamp the park, including a hotel and a cable car connection, but the plan was described by critics as \"pre-election glitter\". The Weatherill government was not returned at the subsequent election in March 2018.\n\nThere are seven major anthropogenic threats to biodiversity: habitat fragmentation, destruction, degradation (including pollution), overexploitation of species for human consumption, disease increases, introduction of invasive species, and global climate change. These activities such as agricultural expansion, reckless industrialisation and urbanisation, altered the ecosystems and distribution of species. Land use change has led to the degradation, fragmentation and destruction of habitats, therefore triggered the species movement and loss of biodiversity and species extinctions worldwide.\n\nThere is a need to conserve and restore what humans have changed in the ecosystem on both a large and small scale. According to IUCN, protected areas are areas of land or sea dedicated by law or traditions (governance regimes, scientific, traditional knowledge and community-based approaches) to implementation of protection of biodiversity.\n\nIUCN protected area management categories has classified the protected areas according to their management goals and objectives. These classifications are recognised by the United Nations and many national governments. IUCN protected area designations are: \"Ia) Strict Nature Reserve, Ib) Wilderness Area, II) National Park, III) Natural Monument or Feature, IV) Habitat/Species Management Area, V) Protected Landscape/Seascape, VI) Protected area with sustainable use of natural resources\".\n\nThe National Parks and Wildlife Act 1972 (NPW Act) in South Australia provides the establishment and administration of reserves for conservation of wildlife in a natural environment, public benefit and pleasure and for other purposes.\n\nCleland Conservation Park has established in 1st of Jan 1945 and classified as Category II protected area in IUCN protected area management categories. Primary objective for Category II is \"to protect natural biodiversity along with its underlying ecological structure and supporting environmental processes, and to promote education and recreation.\"\n\nThe current categories and order of the schedules were last reviewed in 2008 and under the NPW Act are:\n\n\"Schedule 7: Endangered species (also including critically endangered and extinct species)\"\n\n\"Schedule 8: Vulnerable species\"\n\n\"Schedule 9: Rare species\"\n\nIdentifying priorities for conservation is the first requirement within a protected area. An effective conservation action requires detailed information about the ecosystem, species and their distribution, as well as the distribution of any threat(s) that may affect them. Conservation planners should address three questions: “What needs to be protected?”, “Where should it be protected?” and “How should it be protected?” \nAll the reserves and parks in South Australia are proclaimed under the National Parks and Wildlife Act 1972 (NPW Act) and the Wilderness Protection Act 1992 (the WP Act). Conservation of reserves are committed to the Minister under the Crown Land Management Act 2009 (CL Act).\n\nA management plan is the utmost important foundation for the direction of managing the reserve. The requirements for the preparation of management plans are outlined in the NPW and WP Acts and need to be prepared soon after the constitution of a reserve. The management plan should identify the vision for the reserve in addition to the strategies and objectives to meet that vision over a 10-year period. Every year, park managers outline the work programs that are aligned with the proposed strategies in the original management plan.\n\nProtecting and managing endangered or rare species requires a firm grip of their natural history (their ecology and distinctive characteristics). These essential information are: the species’ morphology, physiology, demography, behaviour, distribution, genetics, environment, biotic interactions as well as interactions with people. The information can be achieved by studying published or unpublished literature and field work. Field work is crucial since only a small percentage of the world's species have been studied. The data in field work is collected by using long term monitoring, surveying, censuses and demographic studies which can determine the historical change of the population size. This enables the managers to distinguish short term fluctuations from the long term decline of population size.\nNatural Resources Adelaide & Mt Lofty Ranges (AMLR) are following four main strategies to conserve the biodiversity of the region:\n\n\"I) Maintain intact (viable) landscapes, II) reverse declines, III) control emerging threats, IV) recover threatened species and ecological communities\".\n\nThreatening processes are practices or environmental factors that could threaten the survival or evolutionary development of species, populations, ecosystems and/or ecological communities.There are direct (legal and illegal ) threats impacting biodiversity in AMLR including historical vegetation clearances, the use of biological resources, climate change (causing drought and severe weather), the introduction of exotic species and poisoning practices. There are also threats associated with roads and transportation which cause wild life mortality. These have damaged the habitats, functioning of ecosystems, availability of food and the overall food web. According to Informing Biodiversity Conservation for the Adelaide and Mount Lofty Ranges Region, South Australian ecological stresses are:\n\nFire is an ecological stresses that threat to biodiversity while is a valuable management tool as well.\n\nThe Adelaide Mount Lofty Ranges (AMLR) region is home to a range of native plants and animals.\n\nNative Plants\n\nAround 1,500 species of native plants including orchids, ferns, gum trees, herbs, lilies, grasses and rushes, originate within AMLR. Amongst those, 121 are nationally threatened while seven are considered to be threatened in the region. The two endangered plant species in the region are Fleurieu Peninsula Guinea-flower (Hibbertia tenuis) and Mount Compass oak-bush (Allocasuarina robusta).\n\nNative Animals\n\nThere are a great number of different native animals in the AMLR region, however some of these species have already become extinct and many are endangered. These threatened and endangered animals include birds, mammals, reptiles, frogs and freshwater fish. The details are given below.\n\nBirds\n\nThe AMLR region comprises 249 species of birds, 69 of which are considered threatened. The three species that are considered Endangered are: the Chestnut-rumped heathwren (Hylacola pyrrhopygia parkeri), the Mt Lofty Ranges Southern emu-wren (Stipiturus malachurus intermedius) and the Orange-bellied parrot (Neophema chrysogaster).\n\nMammals\n\nThe AMLR region comprises 27 species of native mammals, including an echidna, an antechinus, dunnart species, a bandicoot, possums, wombat, kangaroos, rats and bats. Seven species are considered threatened in a state or national level. The Southern brown bandicoot (Isoodon obesulus obesulus) and Western pygmy possum (Cercartetus concinnus) are considered vulnerable, while the Brush-tailed Bettong (Bettongia penicillata penicillata) has been listed as endangered.\n\nReptiles\n\nThe AMLR region comprises 68 species of native reptiles, including turtles, lizards, tortoises, geckos, legless lizards, skinks, snakes and goanna species. Six of the species are considered threatened, and the Heath goanna (Varanus rosenbergi) and Adelaide pygmy blue-tongue skink (Tiliqua adelaidensis) are listed as endangered.\n\nFrogs\n\nThe AMLR region comprises 7 native frog species. The Brown Toadlet (Pseudophryne bibronii) is rare in South Australia and considered vulnerable in the region.\n\n\"Freshwater fish\n\nThe AMLR region comprises 20 native freshwater fish, including catfish, galaxiids, lampreys and eels. Three of these species are considered threatened nationally while Climbing Galaxias (Galaxias brevipinnis), Congolli (Pseudaphritis urvillii), Mountain Galaxias (Galaxias olidus) and Pouched Lamprey (Geotria australis) are considered Vulnerable in the region.\n\nProtection of species or individual populations is usually achievable via conservation and restoration of habitats. To do so, collecting essential data on biological communities and ecosystem function are important. Therefore, long term monitoring of populations needs to be accompanied by monitoring of the environment parameters. To determine the health of ecosystem, observation of the ecosystem processes such as temperature, rainfall, humidity and soil erosion, is necessary. Monitoring the community characteristics such as the present species and amount of biomass, are also other parameters in a healthy ecosystem. By monitoring the studies of these parameters, it enables managers to decide whether or not the goals of their projects are being achieved or if management plans need to be adjusted.\n\nAccording to Primack (2010), there are “lagging” effects on the environment that may not surface for years after the original causes. This “lagging” creates a huge challenge towards understanding the changing of ecosystems. Hence, long term monitoring programs provide an early warning for threats to the functioning of ecosystems and communities of species. Examples as mentioned below, can address the conservation/knowledge gaps and help to refine the management priorities:\n\nChanging in conservation status, an alarm towards becoming extinct\n\nThe Adelaide pygmy blue-tongue skink (Tiliqua adelaidensis) had been classified extinct until its rediscovery near Burra in South Australia in 1992. It is classified as Endangered in South Australia. Another example Chestnut-rumped heathwren status has changed from Vulnerable in 2008, to Endangered in 2016. Also, Western Pygmy Possum were listed as Vulnerable in AMRL in 2008 and became Critically Endangered in the Adelaide and Mt Lofty Ranges Region in Sep 2015.\n\nDifferent emerging threats and species response\n\nIn 2008 wildfire was counted as the primary potential threat to Chestnut-rumped heathwren while deliberate burning, residential development (habitat has been cleared/fragmented) and dieback due to Phytophthora, were the secondary threats. However, high threats in 2010 recorded as drought, climate change and roadside accidents (due to inappropriate access and works).\n\nThe Southern brown bandicoot's (Isoodon obesulus obesulus) decline in 2008 was due to some threats like loss or degradation of woodland habitat (exposed habitats as the result of kangaroos overgrazing), broad scale removal of habitats, predation (from introduced species like foxes and feral cats) and fire. In contrast, the decline of bandicoots in 2010 was due to climate change and drought, weed invasion (predominantly woody weeds) and dieback (particularly Phytophthora cinnamomi). These threats in addition to some other threats (nutrient input, altered hydrological regimes and fire regimes) have degraded the health of the forests and hence bandicoot habitats in general.\n\n\"Lagging time\" needs to be considered for predictions and future projects planning\n\nHarris, in one of his work that published in 2009, mentioned Western pygmy possum (Cercartetus concinnus) as \"Least concern, Lower risk\" in IUCN list. At the time of his work, the species was not recognized to be endangered in the national or state level in Victoria, Western Australia or South Australia. However, at the same time, New South Wales listed this species as endangered since their distribution was threatened by massive vegetation clearing, the reduction of food sources (by overgrazing of livestock), fire regimes and introduced predators (like red fox and domestic cats) and some native Australian carnivors such as quolls, snakes and owls. \nWhile the Western pygmy possum's conservation status remained Vulnerable in AMRL in 2008 and 2014, its latest status is Critically Endangered in the Adelaide and Mt Lofty Ranges Region in 2015. This could indicate some knowledge gaps about this particular species' responses.\n\nThreatened species and ecological communities response \nDuring Ash Wednesday bushfires in the South East in Feb 1983, many areas were severely burnt (including Scrub, Whennan's, Mount McIntyre, Yeate's, Millicent Golf Course, Mount Burr Mill Drop, East McRostie's, West McRostie's, Brooksby Road and Hackett Hill), Southern brown bandicoots inhabited those areas again (except Yeate's) by as early as April 1990. The study suggested that during the Ashe Wednesday bushfires, bandicoots moved through the extensive pine plantations and migrated to native vegetation in the neighbourhood. They found dispersal corridors along the edge of the fire by using the dense ground cover. However, in Cleland and the Mt Lofty Ranges, Paull stated that “It is not known whether bandicoots survived the fires within these patches in refugal areas or whether they recolonised from neighbouring unburnt patches.”\n\nThe importance of habitat quality as well as degradation/fragmentation and destruction\n\nThe study by Paull (1995) suggested that the response of the Southern brown bandicoot to fire (controlled burns and uncontrolled bushfires) needed to be evaluated. In his article, Paull indicated that bandicoots preferred habitats that regenerated into patchy mosaics of scrub as they were less likely to be effected by bushfires. Further studies by him confirmed that bandicoots were vulnerable because of habitat fragmentation (an outcome of extensive historical vegetation clearance) and predation by feral carnivores in the South East and Mount Lofty Ranges.\n\nAlso, the Mount Lofty Ranges’ Chestnut-rumped heathwren are endangered nationally and in SA according to the IUCN Red List since it has a small population and distribution which is continuing to decline further. This bird is threatened by habitat fragmentation caused by extensive land clearance through the region, residential development, invasion by woody weeds and feral predators.\n\nOn the habitat quality subject for the Adelaide pygmy blue-tongue skink (Tiliqua adelaidensis), it has been observed that when artificial burrows were offered in the field to lizards, all lizards preferred vertical burrows over angled burrows, while juvenile lizards preferred shallower burrows than did adult lizards. Observation of 36 artificial burrows showed a significant increase in lizard numbers, during 2001-02 and over three surveys. The same study suggested that this local increase in population could be due to lizards locating appropriate burrows much more easily. The overall success could be appreciated as a tool for conservation management of this endangered species. Another study compared the fitness of female pygmy blue-tongue lizards in natural burrows and artificial ones, over a 3-year period. The study showed that the females in the artificial burrows had better body conditions and produced larger offspring with better body conditions also.\n\nCost effective monitoring\n\nOperations of projects are determined by district and regional priorities and resource availability such as funding and staffing. A study on Chestnut-rumped heathwren showed that to predict the risk of extinction precisely, assessment of the trends of population size and distribution are required. Therefore, choosing the most cost-effective monitoring techniques for species with low density and visibility are key factors for managers. Although effective detection of population trends is essential for managing species under threat, the main factor is the amount of money available for the monitoring technique.\n\nThis popular tourist destination is above sea level. It provides sweeping vistas across the Adelaide Plains and Gulf St Vincent. Flinders Column, a white painted obelisk shaped like a lighthouse, is a landmark which can be seen from far away on a clear day.\n\nCar parking facilities are provided: charges are payable. Public bus route 823 serves the summit with three journeys a day (including weekends and most holidays). Other facilities include an information centre/ souvenir shop, a cafe/restaurant (closed Mondays) and public toilets.\n\nWaterfall Gully, another popular part of the park, is located on its western edge. It can be accessed via the sealed Waterfall Gully Road. A limited amount of free car parking is provided. There is no scheduled public transport service. Other facilities include a kiosk/restaurant and public toilets.\n\nThe main attraction is a waterfall, the largest of several in the park. The base is a short walk from the car park and the top can be reached by a formed but steep footpath, which continues to Cleland Wildlife Park and Mount Lofty summit.\n\nBy far the largest part of the park consists of bushland, mostly woodland with some open spaces where clearing has taken place.\n\nThere are a number of walking trails, including the Waterfall Gully - Mount Lofty summit trail which is a popular and reasonably challenging ascent of the west side of Mount Lofty, and parts of the long distance Heysen and Yurrebilla Trails, which run north–south along the higher ground in the east of the park.\n\nAs of 22 December 2012, many trails in the park became shared-use, allowing mountain bikers to also make use of the trails.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2000525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000525", "title": "Szanticska", "text": "Szanticska\n\nSzanticska is a former village in Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County, Hungary. With a population of 5 people in 2001 Szanticska is famous for being regarded the smallest settlement in Hungary, although officially it is not an independent municipality but part of the village Abaújlak since 1870. In fact, mentioning it as \"smallest settlement in Hungary\" has neither official nor statistical basis rather it is a kind of urban legend born in the 1980s.\n\nSzanticska was first mentioned in 1317. Its name comes from the name of St. Stephen (\"Szent István\" in Hungarian). During the Ottoman occupation of Hungary, the area was an important wine district, later it became deserted, but in the 18th century it was a populated place again. In 1870 it was annexed to Abaújlak.\n\nBetween the World Wars the village prospered, but the population started to decrease in the 1930s, mostly because the village didn't have a school. In 1988 the village had only one resident. During the 1990s Szanticska experienced a revival; some new residents settled down in the village and now it is a holiday resort where people can have an insight into everyday life of Hungarian peasants in the 19th century. Szanticska also hosts Hungarian schoolchildren during the summer for weeklong camps.\n\nThere are 19 houses and 2 churches in the village, as well as one store sporadically open an hour or two based on the number of visitors.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2000531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000531", "title": "Jane Wallace (journalist)", "text": "Jane Wallace (journalist)\n\nJane Wallace is an American journalist. She was correspondent for CBS News as well as the news magazine \"West 57th\".\n\nWallace was one of the first female graduates of Yale College. While there, she also worked part-time at TV stations in Washington, DC.\n\nAfter graduating college, she was an on-the-air reporter for a station in New Haven, Connecticut. Wallace was sent to Central America in the 80s by CBS. During her time at CBS, she covered two international stories, the exposition of US government's mining of a Nicaraguan harbor and the hiring of drug-smuggling pilots from the CIA. She also covered the riots in Haiti.\n\nIn 1994, she hosted the half hour news program \"Under Scrutiny with Jane Wallace\" on the new fX cable television channel.\n\nWallace has an adopted son named Zach (Zachariah Max). She is the fourth of five girls and a son. Her younger sister named Susan (Suki) Wallace who used to work at a TV station in Chicago. She was a reporter at NBC's South Florida affiliate, WTVJ. Her sister passed away in January 2018, after a battle with cancer. \n"}
{"id": "2000532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000532", "title": "List of Parliamentary constituencies in Leicestershire and Rutland", "text": "List of Parliamentary constituencies in Leicestershire and Rutland\n\nThe ceremonial county of Leicestershire, (which includes the unitary authority of Leicester), is divided into 10 Parliamentary constituencies - 3 Borough constituencies and 7 County constituencies. One of these also includes the small historic county of Rutland, which was administratively a district of Leicestershire from 1974 to 1997. Since 1997, Rutland has been a separate unitary authority.\n\nIn the unreformed House of Commons, Leicestershire and Rutland were represented by two Knights of the Shire each, and the only parliamentary borough was Leicester, which sent two burgesses.\n\nUnder the Reform Act 1832, Leicestershire was split into two divisions, North and South, which each elected two members. The Reform Act 1885 redistributed these seats into four single-member divisions: Melton, or Eastern, Loughborough, or Mid, Harborough, or Southern, and Bosworth, or Western.\n\nAt the 1918 general election, the four divisions of the county were retained, and the borough of Leicester was split into three single-member constituencies, Leicester East, Leicester South, and Leicester West. From 1950 to 1974 Leicester had four constituencies, these being Leicester North East, Leicester North West, Leicester South East and Leicester South West: the three seat arrangement of South, East and West was reverted to thereafter.\n\nRutland constituted a constituency on its own until 1918, when it became part of the Rutland and Stamford constituency, with nearby Stamford in Lincolnshire.\n\nIn 1983, seats in Leicestershire were redrawn. Rutland was merged with Melton to form Rutland and Melton, with Loughborough, Bosworth, and Harborough remaining as seat names. The new North West Leicestershire constituency was created. A further constituency, Charnwood was created in the north for the 1997 election.\n\nFinalised proposals by the Boundary Commission for England retain the 10 constituencies, with changes to realign constituency boundaries with the boundaries of current local government wards, and to reduce the electoral disparity between constituencies. These changes were implemented at the 2010 United Kingdom general election. They have confirmed that the new constituency which almost corresponds to the existing Blaby is renamed South Leicestershire on the grounds that it does not match the borders of Blaby district, and the village of Blaby itself is not one of the major population centres.\nThe Boundary Commission for England submitted their final proposals in respect of the Sixth Periodic Review of Westminster Constituencies (the 2018 review) in September 2018. Although the proposals were immediately laid before Parliament they were not brought forward by the Government for approval. Accordingly, they did not come into effect for the 2019 election which took place on 12 December 2019, and which was contested using the constituency boundaries in place since 2010.\n\nUnder the terms of the Parliamentary Voting System and Constituencies Act 2011, the Sixth Review was based on reducing the total number of MPs from 650 to 600 and a strict electoral parity requirement that the electorate of all constituencies should be within a range of 5% either side of the electoral quota.\n\nOn 24 March 2020, the Minister of State for the Cabinet Office, Chloe Smith, issued a written statement to Parliament setting out the Government's thinking with regard to parliamentary boundaries. They propose to bring forward primary legislation to remove the statutory obligation to implement the 2018 Boundary Review recommendations, as well as set the framework for future boundary reviews in time for the next review which is due to begin in early 2021 and report no later than October 2023. It is proposed that the number of constituencies now remains at the current level of 650, rather than being reduced to 600, while retaining the requirement that the electorate should be no more than +/- 5% from the electoral quota.\n\n\"Primary data source:\" House of Commons research briefing - General election results from 1918 to 2019\n\nThe number of votes cast for each political party who fielded candidates in constituencies comprising Leicestershire and Rutland in the 2019 general election were as follows:\n\n1983 & 1987 - SDP-Liberal Alliance\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki> Included in Other\n\n1983 & 1987 - SDP-Liberal Alliance\n\nA cell marked → (with a different colour background to the preceding cell) indicates that the previous MP continued to sit under a new party name.\n\nFrom 1918 to 1983 Rutland was categorised with Lincolnshire.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2000548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000548", "title": "John E. Blakeley", "text": "John E. Blakeley\n\nJohn E. Blakeley (1 October 1888 – 20 February 1958) was a British film producer, director and screenwriter, the founder of Mancunian Films.\n\nBorn in Ardwick, Manchester, son of James Blakeley (born c. 1862; Manchester), and Margaret Quirk (born c. 1861; Glasgow, Scotland), he was of Lancashire (Church of England) descent on his father's side of the family and Irish Catholic on his mother's. His father had become an early film distributor in 1908 after previous work as a travelling draper. Blakeley joined his father's business and soon came to understand the tastes of the emerging cinema audiences in the northern industrial towns. By the 1930s, the younger Blakeley was making films starring the idols of northern music hall comedy: George Formby, Frank Randle and Sandy Powell.\n\nInitially relying on London studios, rising costs encouraged him to found the Mancunian Film Studios in his hometown in 1947, on £70,000 capital. The studios produced a sequence of profitable films, often on shoestring budgets, until Blakeley's retirement in 1953. He died in Stockport aged 69.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2000551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000551", "title": "Petar Brzica", "text": "Petar Brzica\n\nPetar \"Pero\" Brzica (born ca. 1917) was a Croatian mass murderer. Originally a Franciscan friar, he became a member of the fascist Ustaše movement and committed his atrocities at the Jasenovac concentration camp during World War II.\n\nBefore the war Brzica was a scholarship student at the Franciscan college of Široki Brijeg in Herzegovina and a member of The Great Brotherhood of Crusaders, an organization part of the Croatian Catholic movement. He spent some time studying law in Zagreb where he became the Ustashe Youth member and later a member of the Croatian fascist Ustaša government (1941–45) and one of the guards in the Jasenovac concentration camp.\n\nAs an Ustashe he held the rank of Lieutenant.\n\nWhile he is known for having beaten an inmate to death in March 1943, he is notorious for having won a contest in which he used a curve-bladed knife, also called a srbosjek, to kill newly arrived concentration camp prisoners. Brzica boasted of winning the contest by killing the largest number of prisoners – 1,360 people. Some other sources set Brzica's \"record\" at a lower number, between 670 and 1,100.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2000555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000555", "title": "Water féerie", "text": "Water féerie\n\n\"Water féerie\" (Belarusian language: \"Водная феерыя\", Vodnaya feyeryya) was a flashmob performance, initiated by several Belarusian youth opposition movements on May 14, 2005 on the 10th anniversary of the referendum (which abolished historical national symbols of Belarus: white-red-white flag and \"Pahonia\" coat of arms). \n\nThe action was in the form of boat racing under white-red-white flags and the flag of the European Union on Svislach river in Minsk in the vicinity of the Masherov Avenue.\n"}
{"id": "2000562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000562", "title": "Rupert Friend", "text": "Rupert Friend\n\nRupert William Anthony Friend (born ) is a British actor, director, screenwriter, producer and lyricist. He is known for his work in comedies and dramas, both in television and film. For his role as Peter Quinn on the Showtime series \"Homeland\", he was nominated for an Emmy in 2013. He went on to collaborate with Armando Iannucci in the film \"The Death of Stalin\" in which he played Vasily Stalin, son of Joseph Stalin, and he played Theo Van Gogh, Vincent Van Gogh's brother, in Julian Schnabel's film \"At Eternity's Gate\". He has also worked with Wes Anderson on \"The French Dispatch\", and previous roles include Lieutenant Kurt Kotler in the 2008 film \"The Boy in the Striped Pyjamas\", Prince Albert in \"The Young Victoria\", Oliver in the film \"Starred Up\" and Agent 47 in the film \"\".\n\nFriend was born in Cambridge, Cambridgeshire, England and brought up in Stonesfield, Oxfordshire, the son of Caroline, a solicitor, and Nicholas Friend, a cultural historian. He attended The Marlborough School in Woodstock. He moved to take A-levels at the Cherwell School and d'Overbroeck's College in Oxford. Friend received his professional acting training at the Webber Douglas Academy of Dramatic Art in London.\n\nOriginally he wanted to be an archaeologist and travel around the world after seeing \"Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade\" in 1989, but he scrapped the idea after realizing that the occupation was perhaps not as exciting as Indiana Jones's adventures had led him to believe. Instead, he turned to acting, in which he was inspired by Marlon Brando who played Vito Corleone, and Daniel Day-Lewis, whom he described as \"mind-boggling\".\n\nHe played three minor roles in a stage production of \"The Laramie Project\" when he was in his third year in drama school, and was spotted by a casting director and made his acting debut as Billy Downs opposite Johnny Depp in the 2004 film \"The Libertine\", for which he was named \"outstanding new talent\" at the 2005 Satellite Awards. In 2005, he had his first starring role as Ludovic Meyer in the film adaption of \"Mrs Palfrey at the Claremont\", in which he starred opposite Joan Plowright. In the same year, he portrayed Wickham in Joe Wright's version of \"Pride and Prejudice\". In 2008, Friend and Tom Mison wrote, produced and starred in a short film called \"The Continuing and Lamentable Saga of the Suicide Brothers\". The film won Best Short at the Rhode Island International Horror Film Festival (2010). He founded his own production company called Beat Pictures, and he made his directorial debut with a short film in 2010 called \"Steve\", which starred Colin Firth, Keira Knightley and Tom Mison. In addition to directing, he wrote and produced the film, which was later included in the 2012 compilation \"Stars in Shorts.\" \"Steve\" won Friend the Rhode Island Film Festival Crystal Image Award, and was nominated for the Santa Barbara Film Festival Bruce Corwin Award for Best Short Film.\n\nHe also starred in the film \"Chéri\" and played the titular character opposite Michelle Pfeiffer. In addition, he joined the cast of \"The Boy in the Striped Pyjamas\" and played Kurt Kotler, a lieutenant in Nazi Germany. In 2010, he played Albert, Prince Consort in \"Young Victoria\". Graham King, producer of \"Young Victoria\", chose Friend to star in the lead role because he remembered Friend's strong performance in \"Pride and Prejudice\". His performance received acclaim, in particular, from historian Alex von Tunzelmann, who praised him for putting in effort in mastering the role.\n\nIn 2010, Friend made his stage debut as Mitchell in the UK premiere of \"The Little Dog Laughed\". He followed this with Dennis Potter's Brimstone and Treacle, in which he played the lead character to rave reviews. He stars in the film \"The Kid\", based on the novel by Kevin Lewis. As the film involves boxing, he trained himself so as to improve his physical and psychological shape. He also starred in a French film called \"Lullaby for Pi\", playing a singer called Sam. In 2011, he played Thomas Anders, the protagonist of the film \"5 Days of War\".\n\nFriend was asked by Kairos 4tet leader Adam Waldmann to write the lyrics for a track on their 2011 album Statement of Intent, and was then asked to write all the lyrics for their 2013 album Everything We Hold, which received rave reviews. His lyrics were sung by Marc O'Reilly, Omar Lye-Fook, and Emilia Martensson.\n\nIn 2014, Friend played Oliver Baumer in Fox Searchlight's film \"Starred Up\". His performance was applauded by critics and was nominated for BIFA Award for Best Supporting Actor. In 2015, Friend starred as Agent 47 in \"\", a film based on the \"Hitman\" video game franchise, replacing Paul Walker. In order to play the role, he had to shave all his hair. He performed most of his own stunts. The production team also sent him copies of all the \"Hitman\" games for him to familiarize himself with the character.\n\nFriend played a major role as Peter Quinn in the political thriller series \"Homeland\". Introduced in season two as a supporting character, earning him an Outstanding Guest Actor Emmy nomination, his role became significantly larger after season three. His performance received widespread acclaim and he was nominated for three different awards. Friend reprised his role as Quinn in the fifth season of \"Homeland\", which was filmed entirely in Berlin, Germany and premiered on 4 October 2015 and was mourned by the press after the sixth (his final) season. In the same year, Friend provided narration for Nick Knight's folk horror fashion film, The Face of a Dying Dog.\n\nFriend has become known as a \"sneaky MVP when it comes to comedic supporting performances\", appearing in Paul Feig's \"A Simple Favor\", starring Anna Kendrick and Blake Lively in which he was offered the lead role, but turned it down to play a funny cameo instead. He also displayed \"serious comedic chops\" in Armando Iannucci's five-star reviewed \"The Death of Stalin\".\n\nFriend played the role of rebellious wildman Ernest Donovan in \"Strange Angel\" from 2018 to 2019, and his performance was praised as being \"an open book in a language no-one can read\".\n\nIn 2018 Friend performed a new audio drama by John Patrick Shanley, titled Last Night in the Garden I Saw You, which featured Michelle Williams (actress). The following year, Friend was asked by internationally renowned screenwriter David Koepp to narrate his debut novel \"Cold Storage\" for HarperCollins AudioBooks. He voiced the character of Peter Hardy in the 2019 Gimlet scripted podcast \"Motherhacker\".\n\nIn an interview on BBC Radio 4's \"The Film Programme\", James Bond casting director Debbie McWilliams stated that Friend was asked if he'd like to be considered for the role of James Bond but he turned the screentest down. After his worldwide success with \"Homeland\", however, there was renewed speculation that he is on the shortlist to succeed Daniel Craig as 007.\n\nFrom 2005 to 2010, Friend dated English actress Keira Knightley, whom he met when filming \"Pride & Prejudice\". He met American athlete and actress Aimee Mullins in 2013, and they became engaged in December 2014. Friend and Mullins were married on 1 May 2016.\n\n"}
{"id": "2000585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000585", "title": "Character evidence", "text": "Character evidence\n\nCharacter evidence is a term used in the law of evidence to describe any testimony or document submitted for the purpose of proving that a person acted in a particular way on a particular occasion based on the character or disposition of that person. In the United States, Federal Rule of Evidence 404 maps out its permissible and prohibited uses in trials. Three factors typically determine the admissibility of character evidence: \n\nIn the United States, character evidence may be offered at trial to\n\nCharacter may be a substantive issue in defamation suits, in lawsuits alleging negligent hiring or negligent entrustment, in child custody cases, as well as in loss of consortium cases; character evidence is thus admissible to prove the substantive issues that arise in these types of lawsuits.\n\nIf used as circumstantial evidence, FRE 404(a)(1) renders inadmissible character evidence offered to prove that an individual acted \"in accordance with\" a character or trait \"on a particular occasion.\" It lists several exceptions which apply depending on whether the proceeding is civil or criminal, whether the defense or prosecution is offering the character evidence, and what purpose it is being offered for.\n\nCharacter evidence may be offered, depending on the type of proceeding, party offering, and purported purpose, explained below, in three forms:\n\n\nIn the majority of U.S. jurisdictions, character evidence is inadmissible in civil suits when being used as circumstantial evidence to prove that a person acted in conformity with their character; it is considered to be an unfair basis from which to attempt to prove that an individual behaved in a particular way on a particular occasion. Another way of looking at this is that character evidence is only admissible in a majority of jurisdictions in a civil trial if character is actually a substantive issue in the case (negligent hiring; negligent entrustment, child custody cases, loss of consortium cases), or to impeach a witness.\n\nA minority of U.S. jurisdictions, however, permit defendants in assault and battery and fraudulent misconduct civil cases to introduce character evidence as circumstantial evidence to prove that a person acted in conformity with their character.\n\nIn the United States, character evidence is inadmissible in a criminal trial if first offered by the prosecution as circumstantial evidence to show that a defendant is likely to have committed the crime with which he or she is charged—the prosecution may not, in other words, initiate character evidence that shows defendant's propensity to commit a crime. However the prosecution may introduce character evidence for certain limited purposes \"after\" the defendant does so—after the defendant has \"opened the door\"—through the permissible methods and purposes explained below in \"Character evidence offered by the defendant,\" to rebut what defendant tried showing through character evidence, and to \"offer evidence of the defendant's same trait.\" \n\nFRE 404, in addition to dictating character evidence's permissible use in federal courts, also bars the prosecution's admission of \"crimes, wrongs, or other acts\" to prove the character of a person in order to show action in conformity therewith (propensity). Evidence of other crimes, wrongs or acts is available for \"non-character purposes,\" such as motive, opportunity, intent, preparation, plan, knowledge, identity, or absence of mistake or accident. In a criminal prosecution, the defendant can request to receive notice of this type of evidence if the prosecution intends to admit it at trial. \n\nCharacter evidence is admissible in a criminal trial if offered by a defendant as circumstantial evidence—through reputation or opinion evidence—to show \"their own\" character, as long as the character evidence the defendant seeks to introduce is relevant to the crime with which the defendant is charged. For example, if a defendant is charged with a crime involving dishonesty, defendant may introduce evidence tending to show defendant's honest character. If defendant is charged with a violent crime, defendant may introduce evidence tending to show defendant's peaceful character. \n\n\nCharacter evidence is also admissible in a criminal trial if offered by a defendant as circumstantial evidence—through reputation or opinion evidence—to show an alleged victim's \"pertinent\" character trait—for example, to support defendant's claim of self-defense to a charge of homicide. \n\nAfter a criminal defendant introduces evidence of the victim's character, the prosecution may \"then\" introduce its own character evidence to rebut the defendant's character evidence by showing its side's impression of the victim's character, or to attack the character of the defendant through evidence that shows that defendant had the same character trait he or she accused the victim of having. \n\n\nThe admissibility of character evidence to allow defendant to prove the character trait of a victim is limited, however, if the lawsuit is for rape or assault with the intent to commit rape. If the reputation or opinion evidence is being offered by the defendant to show the rape victim's past sexual conduct, character evidence is inadmissible. In such sexual misconduct cases, a defendant may offer \"evidence of specific instances of a victim’s sexual behavior\" only to show that someone other than the defendant was the source of \"semen, injury, or other physical evidence,\" or to show that the victim had consented to sexual behavior with the defendant.\n\n\nCommentators have noted that the ability of defendants to call character witnesses can give an advantage to more affluent defendants. Affluent defendants can call as character witnesses celebrities, athletes, and prominent members of the community. In contrast, it would be neither advisable nor beneficial to a defendant to call to the stand a disreputable fellow inmate as a character witness.\n\nCharacter evidence must be distinguished from habit evidence, which is generally admissible, and which is evidence submitted for the purpose of proving that an individual acted in a particular way on a particular occasion in question based on that person's tendency to reflexively respond to a particular situation in a particular way.\n\n"}
{"id": "2000600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000600", "title": "Know your customer", "text": "Know your customer\n\nThe know your customer or know your client (KYC) guidelines in financial services requires that professionals make an effort to verify the identity, suitability, and risks involved with maintaining a business relationship. The procedures fit within the broader scope of a bank's Anti-Money Laundering (AML) policy. KYC processes are also employed by companies of all sizes for the purpose of ensuring their proposed customers, agents, consultants, or distributors are anti-bribery compliant, and are actually who they claim to be. Banks, insurers, export creditors and other financial institutions are increasingly demanding that customers provide detailed due diligence information. Initially, these regulations were imposed only on the financial institutions but now the non-financial industry, fintech, virtual assets dealers, and even the non-profit organizations are liable to oblige. \n\nThe objective of KYC guidelines is to prevent businesses from being used by criminal elements for money laundering. Related procedures also enable businesses to better understand their customers and their financial dealings. This helps them manage their risks in a well-judged manner. Today, KYC principles apply to banks as well as different online businesses. They usually frame their KYC policies incorporating the following four key elements:\n\n\nThe stringent regulatory environment establishes KYC as a mandatory and crucial procedure for financial institutions as well as non-financial institutions. As it minimizes the risk of fraud, by identifying suspicious elements earlier on in the client-business relationship. For the purposes of a KYC policy, a \"customer/user\" may be defined as:\n\n\n\nKYCC or Know Your Customer's Customer is a process that identifies a customer's customer activities and nature. This includes the identification of those people, assessing their associated risk levels and associated activities the customer's customer (business) is involved in.\n\nKYCC is a derivative of the standard KYC process, that was necessitated from the growing risk of fraud originating from fraudulent individuals or companies, that might otherwise be hiding in second-tier business relationships. i.e. (a customer's customer).\n\nKnow Your Business or simply KYB is an extension of KYC laws implemented to reduce money laundering. KYB is a set of practices to verify a business. It includes verification of registration credentials, location, the UBOs (Ultimate Beneficial Owners) of that business, etc. Also, the business is screened against blacklists and grey lists to check that it was involved in any sort of criminal activity such as money laundering, terrorist financing, corruption, etc. KYB is significant in identifying fake business entities and shell companies. it is crucial for efficient KYC and AML compliance.\n\nControversies over this legislation/regulation/policy include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2000613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000613", "title": "The Gospel According to the Meninblack", "text": "The Gospel According to the Meninblack\n\nThe Gospel According to the Meninblack (or sometimes referred to as just The Meninblack) is the fifth album by English rock band The Stranglers, an esoteric concept album released in 1981. The album deals with conspiratorial ideas surrounding alien visitations to Earth, the sinister governmental Men in Black, and the involvement of these elements in well-known biblical narratives. This was not the first time The Stranglers had used this concept; \"Meninblack\" on the earlier \"The Raven\" album and subsequent 1980 single-release \"Who Wants the World?\" had also explored it.\n\nThe album is an elaboration of concepts first introduced by the band on the aforementioned track from their preceding LP, \"The Raven\". Hugh Cornwell, former singer-songwriter and guitarist with the group, has stated his belief that the album is the pinnacle of The Stranglers' artistic and creative output, and he cites it as his favourite album by the band. The Stranglers' bassist, Jean Jacques Burnel, regards the album as often techno in essence, though \"The Meninblack\" predates the emergence of that genre by some years.\n\nThe single releases from the album were \"Thrown Away\" (UK chart position 42) and \"Just Like Nothing On Earth\".\n\nThe album sold around 50,000 copies, peaking at No. 8 on the UK Albums Chart; it spent five weeks in the listings. Parts of the distinctive opening instrumental \"Waltzinblack\" were later used as the theme music for Keith Floyd's BBC TV series, \"Floyd on Food\". The Stranglers developed a tradition of opening their live performances with recorded excerpts of \"Waltzinblack\".\n\nIn a 2015 interview on British TV, Burnel stated that the band experimented with heroin in order to help their creative process and this album was the result.\n\nAll tracks composed and arranged by The Stranglers\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2000620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000620", "title": "Ketan Parekh", "text": "Ketan Parekh\n\nKetan Parekh is a former stock broker from Mumbai, India, who was convicted in 2008, for involvement in the Indian stock market manipulation scam that occurred from late 1998 to 2001. During this period, Parekh artificially rigged prices of certain chosen securities (informally referred to as K-10 stocks), using large sums of money borrowed from banks including the Madhavpura Mercantile Co-operative Bank, of which he himself was a director.\nAs a result, he was barred from trading in the Indian stock exchanges till 2017.\n\nParekh started his career in the late 1980s at Narbheram Harakchand Securities (NH Securities), a reputed institutional brokerage firm. In the 90s, he came in contact with Harshad Mehta, a well known stock broker and subsequently joined Mehta's firm GrowMore investments, a firm that Mehta had set up and which was involved in the 1992 Indian stock market scam. Though one of the accused in some of the scams that Growmore was involved in, Parekh was never convicted in them. Unlike Mehta, Parekh ensured that he remained low key, with a simple lifestyle thus presenting a humble \"feet-on-the-ground\" demeanor even when interviewed by journalists like Sucheta Dalal, as she related in her 2003 article in rediff. \n\nHowever, this started to change in 1999-2000 as Parekh got closer to celebrities. Parekh began cultivating friendships with people in Bollywood including Amitabh Bachchan and the diamond merchant Bharat Shah, thus coming into the media's eye and limelight. This led to an investigative story on him which was first published on 25 August 2000 covering a millennial bash that he had given at his palatial bungalow at Mandwa (near Mumbai), which was attended by Mumbai's gliteratti, industrialists and media personalities. This was followed by his acquiring expensive luxury cars including a Cadillac, throwing regular high profile parties that were eagerly lapped up by the tabloid media. His pictures began to appear in newspapers with his comments on matters related to finance and the budget. The media covered every incident in his life including that of him forming KVP Ventures (a collaboration with Vinay Maloo and the Australian magnate Kerry Packer), forming an investment bank (Triumph international) and turning the loss making ABCL into a profitable firm by arranging funding from HFCL. He invested heavily in stocks related to IT, media and communication and propagated them. As cover stories emerged in the financial media of his malpractices related to the stock market, scrutiny shifted to his activities leading to his arrest on 30 March 2001.\n\nParekh purchased large stakes in less known small market capitalization companies, and jacked up their prices through circular trading with other traders, and collusion with these companies and large institutional investors. This resulted in steep hikes in share prices (for example: shares of Zee telefilms zoomed up from Rs. 127 to a price of Rs. 10,000. This set of ten stocks was colloquially referred to as \"K-10\" stocks and Parekh was playfully referred to as \"Pentafour\".\n\nIt later transpired that promoters and industrialists often gave Parekh funds to artificially rig up their share prices. Thus in just a few months, scrips of virtually unknown companies like Visualsoft rose from Rs 625 to Rs 8,448 per share and Sonata Software rose from Rs 90 to Rs 2,936.60. However, the bear cartel in Bombay stock exchange started to hammer his K-10 stocks in February 2001, leading them to fall and precipitating a payment crisis in Kolkata. \n\nOn 1 March 2001, just after the Indian Union Budget had been presented, the BSE Sensex crashed 176 points, prompting the then NDA government to set up an inquiry into the market reaction. Subsequently the RBI refused to clear pay orders (POs) that had been given by Parekh as collateral for loans to BOI (Bank of India), as they found them to be suspicious. The RBI commenced an investigation against Parekh. Around the same time, a bear cartel of brokers in Mumbai opposed to Parekh tried to dump their shares of K-10 stocks. Panicking, Parekh sold off his entire ownership of the so called K-10 stocks that he had successfully jacked up over the past two years, especially those of two entities - GTB bank and MMCB bank. He carried out this large scale dump in the evening, after regular trading hours, from 5 pm to midnight at the Calcutta Stock Exchange. This resulted in a stock market crash the next day, resulting in large scale losses for large institutional investors, including insurance companies and mutual funds. \n\nA 30 member Joint Parliamentary Committee (JPC) investigation ensued which found that Parekh had been involved in circular trading throughout the time period from and with a variety of companies, including Global Trust Bank (GTB) and Madhavpura Mercantile Cooperative Bank (MMCB). The JPC found him to have played a major role in rigging the prices of a set of ten Indian companies, from 1995 up to 2001. \n\nThis resulted in Parekh's first conviction, which carried a one-year sentence, coming as a result of a transaction he conducted involving a unit of Canara Bank in 1992.\n\nThough Parekh was subsequently barred from stock trading, the Securities and Exchange Board of India alleged in 2009 that a variety of companies and other actors were trading on behalf of Parekh. An investigation ensued and 26 entities were banned from trading as a result of that investigation. In March 2014 he was convicted by a special CBI court in Mumbai for cheating and sentenced to two years rigorous imprisonment.\n\n"}
{"id": "2000621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000621", "title": "Politics of the Oak Ridges Moraine", "text": "Politics of the Oak Ridges Moraine\n\nThe politics of the Oak Ridges Moraine in southern Ontario, Canada, have centred on the question of how to preserve this extensive natural resource that is increasingly threatened by human modification. Although preservation of the moraine was first suggested in the 1940s, and intermittently over the subsequent fifty years, it was not until 1991 that the issue achieved prominence in political discourse. For the ensuing decade, use of the moraine was hotly contested between the interests of local residents, developers and environmentalists.\n\nOn December 14, 2001 legislation was enacted, along with a provincial land use plan for the Oak Ridges Moraine. However, it seems clear that regulation, alone, is insufficient to preserving these valuable lands. Implementing the plan has required \"political will, an engaged and informed public, and... broad based private and public partnerships.\" Monitoring of the Moraine project by citizens and environmental organizations, along with credible ecological information are essential to its continued preservation.\n\nThe Oak Ridges Moraine began to come to public awareness in the late 1980s. The establishment, in 1989, of the Save the Oak Ridges Moraine (STORM) Coalition\ncontributed to a growing sense among local residents that action needed to be taken to save the moraine. The Government of Ontario created the \"Oak Ridges Moraine Technical Working Committee\" in June 1991 with the joint membership of the Ministry of Natural Resources, the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Municipal Affairs. The STORM Coalition played a significant role in the Committee's work. The committee's aim was to create a regional planning strategy to coordinate the activities of various regional and municipal governments with jurisdiction over parts of the moraine. This multi-stakeholder process produced a comprehensive long-term strategy for the Moraine in 1994. However the strategy was subsequently dismissed in favour of local government administration of the affected lands. This led to intense development on some portions of the moraine. Most of this development was suburban detached single-family dwellings with road networks to accommodate them. In particular, Vaughan, Richmond Hill and Newmarket experienced significant growth in the 1990s.\n\nIn early 1999, the Oak Ridges Moraine became a sensitive political issue; developers targeted Richmond Hill for large subdivisions on the moraine, which would house over 100,000 people. Environmental groups began a media campaign to raise public awareness of the moraine, referring to it as the \"rain barrel of Ontario\". Public opposition to the developments grew quickly, and the issue was transferred to the Ontario Municipal Board (OMB) in 2000.\n\nEnvironmentalists, often critical of the OMB for allegedly fast-tracking developments over the concerns of municipal governments, again raised the issue in the media. The dispute remained unresolved until May 2001, when the provincial Conservative government announced a six-month moratorium on moraine development. A panel was formed to create a land-use plan consistent with the current Smart Growth policy. The plan was released in October 2001, and was both praised and condemned. It became the basis for the \"Oak Ridges Moraine Conservation Act\", dividing the area into four zones of increasingly stringent controls on development. Under the Act, only eight percent of the moraine can be developed, and only in lands designated as \"settlement areas\".\n\nThroughout the process, debate continued about the extension of Bayview Avenue from Stouffville Road, in Richmond Hill, to Bloomington Road in Aurora. The land on which the extension would pass had been clear-cut in 1999, after the Government of Ontario Ministry of Environment approved the extension in 1998. The road's construction began in September 2001, though environmental groups had entered into legal procedures to block it. The Ontario Court of Appeals rejected the request; York Region officials agreed to resolve some of the concerns that were raised.\n\nAs a result, a bridge was added to the plan, spanning a 70 m section of a dry ravine near Stouffville Road. Moreover, five salamander tunnels were added to the design, and were built in September 2002. The Bayview extension was officially opened on November 18, 2002.\n\nDuring the provincial election of 2003, the Liberal Party of Ontario promised to terminate development on the moraine as part of its election campaign. Once elected, the party failed to deliver on that promise, as a development in the northern part of Richmond Hill consisting of over 6600 housing units continued. The government, in its attempt to halt other nearby developments, proposed the \"North Pickering Land Exchange\". Discussed as early as November 2001, it involved exchanging government-owned public lands in North Pickering for privately owned lands on the Oak Ridges Moraine in Richmond Hill and Uxbridge.\n\nThe exchange settled outstanding disputes being considered by the OMB involving moraine lands in Richmond Hill and Uxbridge. Lands acquired by the developers had been previously identified as high-growth urban areas in regional and local Official Plans, often referred to as Seaton. However, the process by which the exchange was settled angered environmentalists, who considered the lack of transparency in the process a betrayal: \"Josh Matlow, founder of Earthroots, accused the Tories of making a \"sleazy, secret, sweetheart deal\" with developers.\"\n\nMoreover, the swap allowed the development of 600 acres (2.4 km²) on the moraine; the northern Richmond Hill development ceased operations for several days after the 2003 election, but resumed soon thereafter. The development of \"MacLeod's Landing\", as it is now known, was completed in late 2005. One of the developers, Brookfield Homes, had used the \"Oak Ridges Moraine Conservation Plan\" as a marketing device, claiming that \"as one of the last approved developments on the Oak Ridges Moraine, rest assured that the preservation of the natural landscape that surrounds you is forever.\" The other developers of the community were Kaitlin Group and Aspen Ridge Homes. The site was desirable for development because of the presence of Phillips Lake and a dozen other small kettle lakes, regular features throughout the Oak Ridges Moraine.\n\nThe political struggle regarding the moraine continues. The community of King City in King Township has been embroiled in a decade-long argument about replacing septic systems with a sewerage connection to the Durham-York Sewage System. Proponents of the link claim that the septic systems leak, endangering the subterranean aquifers of the moraine. Opponents claim that such a link would enable explosive growth in the small community, which would be detrimental to the preservation of the moraine. Construction of the link began in early 2005, creating the main sewer trunk from King City to Oak Ridges along King Road, connecting to the existing system near Yonge Street.\n\nThe connection to King City, despite the appellation \"Big Pipe\", is relatively small compared to the overall system expansion governed by York Region, which has also been labeled \"The Big Pipe\". The construction of this north-south extension to the system requires daily pumping of 30 million litres of water from subterranean aquifers, over its projected five-year construction schedule (lasting to early 2008). This has upset environmentalists greatly, and disturbed some residents of Markham who rely on wells as their source of water. These residents were the first to be affected by construction because of their proximity to the initial area of development.\n\nThe $800 million project is divided into several phases, creating fourteen new links in the system. The system trunks, consisting of 2.7 metre concrete pipes, will collectively transport 740 million litres of raw sewage daily from York and Durham to treatment facilities in Pickering. On October 2, 2004, the province ordered a full environmental assessment of the \"Southeast Collector\" (in the Rouge Valley) and the \"Upper Leslie Trunk\"; a further 44 environmental conditions were placed on four other links in the new system.\n\nWhen complete, the regional \"Big Pipe\" will extend from the eastern edge of Lake Simcoe in the north, to treatment plants near Lake Ontario in the south, running along Leslie Street. It will twin with the near-capacity Yonge Street trunk, increasing capacity sufficiently to serve the region's growth until 2030. Intended to cover major growth areas in the eastern part of the region, it will connect directly to emerging developments from Markham to Holland Landing. Moreover, new connections to rural communities will be created; King City is connected to the existing system, whereas Stouffville will connect to the new pipe.\n\nConstruction of the extensions have been contentious. York Region has been accused of failing to conduct a proper environmental assessment for the expansion. Ontario's environmental commissioner Gord Miller noted such concerns: \"\"One of the most significant problems with this project is the lack of a full environmental assessment. Officials never looked at the full picture and the impact it has on the Oak Ridges Moraine and surrounding communities.\"\"\n\nAs pumping of the aquifers continued throughout 2002, residents in nearby areas complained about dropping water levels in their wells, as well as dirty water; the range of affected areas increased with the total volume of water pumped from the aquifer, some as far away as 10 km. Environmentalists claim that continued pumping may jeopardize the aquifer system, so much so that it may reverse its flow in some areas. York Region's planners counter that by indicating that all water that is pumped is re-introduced into nearby streams after being warmed (aquifer water from 50 m below ground level is very cold), and will not affect the aquifer system. Unfortunately, there is no scientific evidence for either claim. Environmentalists have observed, though, that water isn't heated evenly, often resulting in the scalding and death of many fish. Also, according to \"The Globe and Mail\", \"\"York Region has acknowledged that the first phase of building the 16th Avenue sewer line, finished in 2003, had a negative impact on local watersheds.\"\"\n\nIn late October 2005, Toronto City Council voted 34-3 to join an environmental coalition attempting to block the construction of the extension. The city, southern neighbour to York Region, allocated $100,000 to conduct a study of the impact of the system on the city's watersheds, specifically the Rouge River Valley, and requested the provincial Environment Minister to defer the approval for construction until the study is complete.\n\nThe action to save the moraine yields insights into the state of sustainable land use planning and smart growth in watershed protection. In its 2002 case study, the International Association for Great Lakes Research noted that it was “only through citizen initiatives, shaped and focused by environmental groups, that serious debate, and eventual formation of a land use plan, took place.\" As the struggle to save the moraine shows, significant political pressure is necessary to overcome the obstacles to controls: municipalities dedicated to encouraging growth and higher level governments reluctant to intervene. The importance of access to good science and policy information is crucial, as is the need for ongoing monitoring and vigilance.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2000631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000631", "title": "Seth Ward (bishop of Salisbury)", "text": "Seth Ward (bishop of Salisbury)\n\nSeth Ward (1617 – 6 January 1689) was an English mathematician, astronomer, and bishop.\n\nHe was born in Hertfordshire, and educated at Sidney Sussex College, Cambridge, where he graduated B.A. in 1636 and M.A. in 1640, becoming a Fellow in that year. In 1643 he was chosen university mathematical lecturer, but he was deprived of his fellowship next year for opposing the Solemn League and Covenant (with Isaac Barrow, John Barwick and Peter Gunning).\n\nIn the 1640s, he took instruction in mathematics from William Oughtred, and stayed with relations of Samuel Ward.\n\nIn 1649, he became Savilian professor of astronomy at Oxford University, and gained a high reputation by his theory of planetary motion. \nIt was propounded in the works entitled \"In Ismaelis Bullialdi astro-nomiae philolaicae fundamenta inquisitio brevis\" (Oxford, 1653), against the cosmology of Ismael Boulliau, and \"Astronomia geometrica\" (London, 1656) on the system of Kepler. \nAbout this time he was engaged in a decades-long philosophical controversy with Thomas Hobbes: Seth Ward and John Wallis, both Savilian professors and members of the Anglican clergy, felt offended by the works of Hobbes, particularly after \"Leviathan\" was released.\n\nA small part of the debate with John Webster launched by the \"Vindiciae academiarum\" he wrote with John Wilkins which also incorporated an attack on William Dell.\n\nHe was one of the original members of the Royal Society of London. \nIn 1659, he was appointed President of Trinity College, Oxford, but not having the statutory qualifications he resigned in 1660.\n\nKing Charles II appointed him to the livings of St Lawrence Jewry in London, and Uplowman in Devonshire, in 1661. \nHe also became dean of Exeter Cathedral (1661) and rector of St Breock, Cornwall in 1662. \nIn the latter year he was consecrated Bishop of Exeter, and in 1667 he was translated to the see of Salisbury. The office of Chancellor of the Order of the Garter was conferred on him in 1671.\n\nIn his diocese he showed great severity to nonconformists, and rigidly enforced the act prohibiting conventicles (unofficial religious meetings). He spent a great deal of money on the restoration of the cathedrals of Worcester and Salisbury. \nHe died at Knightsbridge on 6 January 1689.\n\nIn 2017 Bishop Wordsworth's Grammar School named its new, fifth house (Ward House) after Bishop Ward.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2000642", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000642", "title": "Bermuda Football Association", "text": "Bermuda Football Association\n\nFounded in 1928, the Bermuda Football Association is the official football (soccer) organization in Bermuda and is in charge of the Bermudian national team. The league is also in charge of the sporting leagues on the island.\n\nMen\nWomen\nYouth\n\nYouth Consists of the Taco League and the Enchilada League (Really these are BYSP (Bermuda Youth Sports Programs) and other island wide teams such as North Village and Somerset)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2000646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000646", "title": "Public policy doctrines for the exclusion of relevant evidence", "text": "Public policy doctrines for the exclusion of relevant evidence\n\nPublic policy doctrines for the exclusion of relevant evidence, in the law of evidence in the United States, encompass several types of evidence that would be relevant to prove facts at issue in a legal proceeding, but which are nonetheless excluded because of public policy concerns. There are five major areas of exclusion that arise out of the Federal Rules of Evidence (\"FRE\"): subsequent remedial measures, ownership of liability insurance, offers to plead guilty to a crime, offers to settle a claim, and offers to pay medical expenses. Many states have modified versions of the FRE under their own state evidence codes which widen or narrow the public policy exclusions in state courts.\n\nThe exclusionary rule, under which evidence gathered by the police from an illegal search is excluded, is of similar operation but is typically considered separately.\n\nA subsequent remedial measure is an improvement, repair, or safety measure made after an injury has occurred. FRE 407 prohibits the admission of evidence of subsequent remedial measures to show defendant's (1) negligence; (2) culpable conduct; (3) a defect in defendant's product; (4) defect in the design of defendant's product; or (5) the need for a warning or instruction.\n\nEvidence of subsequent remedial measures are generally inadmissible for two reasons. First, courts do not want to discourage defendants from taking steps that further safety. Second, excluding subsequent remedial measures from evidence avoids having to give juries the difficult task of distinguishing between defendant's due care prior to plaintiff's injury, and defendant's due care subsequent to plaintiff's injury.\n\nSubsequent remedial measures are, however, admissible into evidence for \n\nExample: In a slip and fall claim where plaintiff falls on the wooden steps leading into a building, defendant decides, as the ambulance is taking plaintiff to the hospital, to quickly sand down the stairs where plaintiff injured herself. FRE 407 prohibits plaintiff from introducing evidence of this subsequent remedial measure to prove that the steps were hazardous \"at the time of her injury\".\n\nIf defendant says that he did not own the building where the plaintiff fell, and plaintiff disputes this claim, plaintiff may introduce evidence that the defendant sanded the stairs \"to show that defendant did, in fact, own the property on which the steps are located\" at the time her injury occurred. \n\nIf defendant claims that there was nothing he could have done to make the steps safer at the time of plaintiff's slip and fall, and plaintiff disputes this allegation, plaintiff may introduce evidence of the subsequent remedial measure \"to prove that undertaking precautionary measures was, in fact, feasible\".\n\n\nEvidence of a party's ownership of—or lack of ownership of—liability insurance is inadmissible to prove (1) negligence or (2) wrongful conduct because courts do not want to discourage parties from carrying such insurance. FRE 411 states:\n\nThe rule spells out four exceptions to the rule of inadmissibility: evidence of a party's ownership of liability insurance—or of a party's failure to own liability insurance—is admissible to prove (1) a witness' bias or prejudice, i.e. for witness impeachment; (2) agency; (3) ownership; and (4) control.\n\n\nAdditionally, an exception arises where the party's mention of its own liability insurance is inextricably intertwined with another statement that is admissible. For example, if after an automobile accident, the driver of one car runs over to the other and says \"don't worry, my insurance will pay to fix the damage I caused to your car\", the entire statement is admissible not to show that the driver is insured, but that the driver has admitted \"fault\".\n\n\nFRE 410 holds that (1) withdrawn guilty pleas; (2) \"nolo contendere\" pleas; (3) statements made during proceedings regarding guilty pleas; (4) statements made during proceedings regarding nolo contendere pleas; (5) and statements made during plea discussions with an attorney present are inadmissible for public policy reasons even if they are relevant. The motivation behind excluding such pleas from evidence is to encourage plea bargaining.\n\nTwo FRE-contained exceptions apply to this rule: criminal pleas, plea discussions, and related statements are admissible (i) in \"any\" proceeding where another statement made in the course of the same plea or plea discussion has been introduced and the statement ought in fairness be considered contemporaneously with it, or (ii) in a criminal proceeding for perjury or false statement if the statement was made by the defendant under oath, on the record, and in the presence of counsel.\n\nAdditionally, a criminal defendant may waive inadmissibility protections, rendering criminal pleas, plea discussions, and related statements admissible at trial. It is a common practice for prosecutors drawing up plea deals to include terms requiring the defendant to agree that statements made in the course of plea negotiations may be used to impeach the testimony of that defendant, to protect against the possibility of the defendant later changing her story.\n\n\nOffers to settle a claim, and related statements made during a settlement conference, are generally inadmissible under FRE 408. The primary public policy motivation is to encourage litigants to settle their disputes. This rule also recognizes that parties may make settlement offers even where they believe they have no actual liability, in order to avoid the expense of litigation. A 2006 amendment to the rule permits the admission of statements made during settlement discussions between a private party and a regulatory body, when those statements are offered as evidence in a \"criminal\" case, subject to FRE 403. \n\nThe inadmissibility of settlement claims only prohibits the admission of statements, not the admission of facts. Thus, if a party to a settlement conference mentions that she possesses a certain document relevant to the proceedings, the other party may seek to discover that document through legal processes, despite it having first been mentioned in the settlement conference; merely disclosing a document's existence and mentioning it during a settlement conference does not insulate it from being discovered and admitted.\n\nAdditionally, the public policy exception of excluding relevant evidence arising out of an offer to settle cannot not apply if the evidence sought to be introduced is a claim made in a period \"before\" a dispute between the parties arose. \n\nAn offer to pay medical expenses is an offer of this nature made by a party who might potentially be liable for an injury to another is inadmissible despite its relevance. FRE 409 states:\n\nEvidence of an offer to pay medical expenses is inadmissible for the public policy rationale that courts do not want to discourage parties responsible for injuring others from paying for the treatment of those injuries.\n\nStatements made in connection with offers to pay medical expenses, however, are not excluded by FRE 409.\n\n\nCalifornia law excludes from evidence and discovery relevant statements made \"for the purpose of, in the course of, or pursuant to, a mediation or a\nmediation consultation\" through California Evidence Code (\"CEC\") §§1115-1125, for the public policy purpose of encouraging the resolution of legal conflicts by mediation.\n\nThe exclusionary rule is another rule under which relevant evidence may be excluded, based in part on public policy concerns. It causes evidence gathered by the police from an illegal search to be inadmissible in a criminal case. The exclusion is intended, in part, to discourage law enforcement officials from violating the search subject's constitutional rights against unreasonable search and seizure. However, it is premised as much on the right of the individual accused against such a search as it is on the larger issue of law enforcement behavior. The rule does also reflect on questions of reliability regarding some (but not all) types of evidence that are excluded thereunder. For example, an officer conducting a warrantless search may have more of an opportunity to plant evidence, and a confession coerced out of a party denied access to legal counsel may be false.\n\nIn legal education and discourse, the exclusionary rule is generally treated as a rule of criminal procedure, rather than a rule of evidence.\n\n"}
{"id": "2000647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000647", "title": "Fort Nya Elfsborg", "text": "Fort Nya Elfsborg\n\nFort Nya Elfsborg was a fortification and settlement established as a part of New Sweden. Built in 1643 and named after the Älvsborg Fortress off Gothenburg, Fort Nya Elfsborg was located on the New Jersey side of the Delaware River, between present day Salem and Alloway Creek.\n\nAt the time of European colonization in the 17th century, the Delaware was known as the South River and the Salem River was known as Varkens Kill, or Hogg Creek. The Dutch established a factorij at Fort Nassau on the east bank of the South River in 1626, and claimed the territory as part of New Netherland. Despite the claim, the colony of New Sweden was founded, in 1638, at Fort Christina on the west bank. In 1641, without having a patent, a group of 60 settlers (20 families) from the New Haven Colony (in today's Connecticut) purchased land along the kill and the Schuylkill from indigenous Lenape. In 1643, the Dutch forcibly disbanded their trading post on the Schuylkill opposite their fort.\n\nFort Nya Elfsborg was built shortly after Johan Printz, governor of New Sweden, arrived in the colony on 15 February 1643, allowing the Varkens Kill settlement to remain if they swore allegiance to Sweden. He also built Fort Nya Gothenborg on Tinicum Island (to the immediate SW of today's Philadelphia), where he built his own manor house which he called The Printzhof.\n\nFort Nya Elfsborg had iron and brass 12pd cannons mounted on earth and wooden palisades. It was a Swedish-style three-cornered earthen redoubt with eight guns. Log farmsteads similar to those found in Sweden went up around the fort further downriver, so that Dutch West India Company ships coming up from the bay would have to pass them first.\n\nAt that time, this area of the river was mostly swamp and the soldiers garrisoned there were inundated by mosquitos. Fort Mosquito (\"Fort Myggenborgh\"), as it was commonly nicknamed, was eventually abandoned, the soldiers succumbing not to enemy cannon fire, but bites. New Sweden burned down the fort after the Dutch built Fort Casimir across the river in 1651.\n\nThe actual site of the fort is now under water at Elsinboro Point. In August 2012, archeological surveys were undertaken to locate the precise location and any remains of the fort, without success. There is a black stone monument outside the Elsinboro Township School. The stone block came from an old fortress in Sweden built in the 13th century.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2000651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000651", "title": "Codex Brixianus", "text": "Codex Brixianus\n\nThe Codex Brixianus (Brescia, Biblioteca Civica Queriniana, s.n.), designated by f, is a 6th-century Latin Gospel Book which was probably produced in Italy.\n\nThe manuscript contains 419 folios. The text, written on purple dyed vellum in silver ink, is a version of the old Latin translation which seems to have been a source for the Gothic translation of Ulfilas. At the base of each page is an arcade very similar to that found in the Codex Argenteus. Furthermore, the Latin text shows readings which seem to be influenced by the Gothic Bible translation.\n\nIt has some lacunae (; ; ; ).\n\nIt was named Brixianus after Brescia in Italy, where it is housed.\n\n"}
{"id": "2000658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000658", "title": "Mancunian Films", "text": "Mancunian Films\n\nMancunian Films was a British motion picture production company organized in 1934.\n\nFounded by John E. Blakeley, the company produced films in London on extremely low budgets. Blakeley's first studio consisted of a single soundstage in a loft space above a taxi garage. Whenever the filmmakers wanted to shoot a scene, they would first have to signal the mechanics below to stop working, so the noise from below wouldn't register on the soundtracks. Blakeley's first production was \"Boots! Boots!\" (1934), starring the young variety entertainer George Formby. Production values were so low that some scenes were filmed in semi-darkness, to hide the lack of set decorations. Despite the technical flaws, the debut film was a huge success in the local provinces, recouping Blakeley's investment several times over and launching George Formby as Britain's leading screen comedian. Within the year \"Blakeley's Productions, Ltd.\" had become \"The Mancunian Film Distributors, Ltd.\"\n\nEscalating costs and a desire to cater for the robust tastes of northern industrial audiences led to the establishment of the two-stage facility in a former Methodist Chapel on Dickenson Road, Rusholme. Starting with \"Cup-tie Honeymoon\" (1948) starring Sandy Powell, over the next six years the films went on to feature northern favourites Frank Randle, Josef Locke, Diana Dors, and Jimmy Clitheroe. The studio, though it often worked on a shoestring, was successful and profitable but Blakely decided to retire when he reached 65.\n\nMancunian Films continued under Blakeley's son Tom for many years, providing facilities for Hammer Horror and making a number of B-movies. The cinematographic expertise developed in Manchester formed the foundations of Granada Television.\n\nThe studio was sold to the BBC in 1954 making it the first regional BBC TV studio outside London. It was demolished in 1975 when operations were transferred to New Broadcasting House on Oxford Road. The studio's archives were lost in a fire at Kay Film Laboratories in 1980. Programmes made by the BBC at the studios include series starring comedian Harry Worth, the first few years of \"Top of the Pops\" and a number of variety programmes.\n\nMike Blakeley, cameraman and grandson of John E. Blakeley, is working with CP Lee of the University of Salford in promoting the detailed history of the Mancunian Film Studio via film screenings and facts about Mancunian Films and its actors.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2000661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000661", "title": "Running backstay", "text": "Running backstay\n\nRunning backstays support the headstay in a fractionally rigged boat. A masthead rig has the advantage of not needing them. A running backstay runs from each lateral corner of the stern to the mast at the level where the forestay begins in the fractional rig. Together with other rigging, it supports the mast. Because they are attached low on mast, they can present a significant problem in an accidental gybe, as the boom hits the stay, with the possibility of breaking the boom, mast, or both.\n\nDuring beating or reaching, the running backstay in windward side is in tension. The one in the leeward side is lazy. As the boat tacks they change over. Another function of the running backstay is to adjust the tension of the forestay to suit the sailing angle and sea condition. In general, during a hard beat when the boat sails very close to the wind, the running backstay is tightened to increase the tension of the forestay. The genoa is sheeted in. Under these conditions, the draft of the genoa is brought forward reducing the drag.\n"}
{"id": "2000662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000662", "title": "Area code 804", "text": "Area code 804\n\nNorth American telephone area code 804 serves the east-central portion of Virginia. The area code is anchored by Virginia's capital, Richmond, and includes most of its metropolitan area. Other communities using 804 include Chesterfield, Henrico, Hopewell, Mechanicsville, Powhatan, Midlothian, Petersburg, and Colonial Heights. The 804 code also includes the Northern Neck and the Middle Peninsula. The two southernmost counties on the Middle Peninsula, Gloucester and Mathews, are part of the Hampton Roads metropolitan area, but use 804 instead of the area code 757 used by the rest of Hampton Roads.\n\nArea code 804 was split from Virginia's original area code, area code 703, on Sunday, June 24, 1973, with an official permissive dialing period ending January 1, 1974. Originally, it stretched across the eastern two-thirds of the state, from Danville to the Eastern Shore. Normally, when an area code is split, the largest city in the old numbering plan area retains the old area code–in this case, Norfolk, then Virginia's largest city. However, C&P Telephone (now part of Verizon) wanted to keep the large number of federal agencies in Northern Virginia from having to change their numbers.\n\nDespite the rapid growth of the Richmond-Petersburg and Hampton Roads areas, this configuration remained in place for 23 years. On July 1, 1996, the Eastern Shore and most of Hampton Roads became area code 757. Although Hampton Roads is the largest metropolitan area based in the Commonwealth, Bell Atlantic (forerunner of Verizon) decided to let Richmond keep 804 in order to spare the plethora of state agencies in the capital the expense and burden of having to change their numbers.\n\nThis split was intended as a long-term solution, but by the turn of the century and millennium 804 was running out of numbers due to the rapid growth of the Richmond area, as well as the proliferation of cell phones and pagers. As a result, 804 was split again on June 1, 2001, when most of the western portion (Danville, Lynchburg, Charlottesville) became area code 434.\n\nArea code 804 is famous for being the only one created during what is considered the most stable time of NANPA's existence, from 1966-1982.\n\nDespite Richmond's continued growth, the area will not need another area code until late 2025.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2000672", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000672", "title": "Henri Caillavet", "text": "Henri Caillavet\n\nHenri Caillavet (2 June 1914 – 27 February 2013) was a French political figure most prominent during the post-war years 1946–1958, when, during the Fourth Republic, he was a member of the National Assembly and as a Senator from 1967–1985.\n\nA native of Agen, Lot-et-Garonne, and trained as a lawyer, Caillavet was renowned in France as a veteran guardian of civil liberties. He proposed bills concerning gay rights, abortion, transgender issues, divorce by mutual consent, euthanasia and organ transplants.\n\nIn January 1953, the ministerial portfolio of France d'Outre-mer was conferred upon him in the government of René Mayer, then that of the Navy in the government of Pierre Mendès France in 1954. In 1958, he opposed General Charles de Gaulle in voting against his investiture and against the new Constitution.\n\nHe then left Lot-et-Garonne and was elected mayor of Bourisp in the department of Hautes-Pyrénées from 1959 to 1983. He competed in senatorial elections in Lot-et-Garonne and was elected in June 1967. Senator from 1967 to 1983, he combined this office with that of MEP from 1979 to 1984. He lost his mandate in 1983 against Senator Jean François-Poncet. But he helped to launch a number of initiatives, such as the creation of the CNIL and the think tank Voltaire Network; in this position, he chaired the committee for transparency and plurality of the press (June 1985).\n\nSeveral times president of the Association for the Right to Die with Dignity (ADMD), he resigned on 23 June 2007.\n\nCaillevet died in Bourisp on 27 February 2013, at the age of 99.\n"}
{"id": "2000673", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000673", "title": "Troitsk, Chelyabinsk Oblast", "text": "Troitsk, Chelyabinsk Oblast\n\nTroitsk ( is a town in Chelyabinsk Oblast, Russia, located east of the southern Ural Mountains and approximately south of Chelyabinsk on the border with Kazakhstan. It stands on the east-flowing Uy River, a branch of the Tobol River. Population: 83,862 (2002 Census); \n\nThe Uy and Uvelka Rivers merge within the town boundaries and form a water body which serves as a reservoir for the nearby power station.\n\nThe landscape around the town is flat, although river valleys are hilly. The town is situated on the border of a forest-steppe zone. The climate is continental. The average temperature in January is , and in July.\n\nTroitsk was founded in 1743 by Ivan Neplyuyev as a head fortress of the Orenburg Line of forts during the Bashkir War of 1735-1740 and to protect the southern borders of Russia. It played a major role in the rebellion of Pugachev, who besieged and captured the town in 1774.\nGradually from a military settlement Troitsk has grown into a trading town with well-developed industry and nascent tourism.\n\nWithin the framework of administrative divisions, Troitsk serves as the administrative center of Troitsky District, even though it is not a part of it. As an administrative division, it is incorporated separately as the Town of Troitsk—an administrative unit with the status equal to that of the districts. As a municipal division, the Town of Troitsk is incorporated as Troitsky Urban Okrug.\n\nTroitsk serves as a railway junction and a supply and trading center for the southern Ural Mountains mining district. Through Troitsk trains pass to the Republic of Kazakhstan and further to the states of Central Asia. Other lines connect the Ural Mountains with the southern regions of Russia.\n\nNear Troitsk are deposits of clay, sand, quartzite, granite, and rubble, used by the town's construction industry. The Russia-Kazakhstan border is immediately south of Troitsk (see photograph). Several large, cultivated field patterns (elongated, rectangular shapes) are visible through the snow-covered landscape, probably planted with spring wheat. Numerous circular, frozen lakes are scattered throughout the countryside around Troitsk.\n\nThe area in the Southern Urals has significant industrial potential. Capacity of the Troitsaya GRES coal-fired power station is around 2000 Megawatts. Additional units with capacity of 660 Megawatt are being built. There is an electromechanical plant which makes heat transfer devices for powerful electric machines, a manufacturer of rockwool plates for Danish firm \"Rockwool\", a meat-packing plant, ferro-concrete products and parquet, a garment factory, and the railway and motor transportation enterprises. Small-scale businesses employ more than 6000 people.\n\nThere are four higher educational institutions in Troitsk. Most significant of them is the Ural State Academy of Veterinary Medicine. About 5,000 students are trained there. Other higher educational institutions have branches in Troitsk.\n\nVarious festivals, competitions, and concerts take place during the year.\n\nTroitsk is one of the few places in the Ural region where the historical environment is well preserved. There are 948 cultural and historical monuments. The city of Troitsk has 4 architectural sites of federal importance: Cathedral of the Holy Trinity (1754), passage Yausheva brothers Bashkirov hotel and shopping arcades.\n\n"}
{"id": "2000681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000681", "title": "Steve Souza", "text": "Steve Souza\n\nSteve \"Zetro\" Souza (born 24 March 1964) is an American vocalist, best known for his work with the thrash metal band Exodus from 1986 to 1994, and again from 2002 to 2004. He rejoined Exodus for a third time in 2014. Souza is one of two singers, along with Chuck Billy, for the band Dublin Death Patrol. He also sings for the death/thrash metal band Tenet. Souza recently announced his new thrash metal project, Hatriot. He was also the lead singer for the thrash metal band Legacy (later known as Testament).\n\nBefore singing for Exodus, he was the lead singer for the band Legacy (which became Testament after his departure), recording and writing most of The Legacy demo. At the time of his departure of Legacy, he introduced Chuck Billy to Legacy members and joined Exodus.\n\nSouza is best known for his stints in Exodus, for whom he sang between 1986 and 1994 (when they broke up) after being brought in to replace Paul Baloff. Exodus was disbanded about two years after the release of \"Force of Habit\". He later rejoined the reformed Exodus from 2002 to 2004. He again parted ways with the band during their South American tour later in 2004; according to Holt, Zetro bailed from the tour just as the tour was about to start. This caused the split to be fairly hostile; in retrospect, Zetro has admitted the blame for the circumstances, saying that it was his discontent at the time that caused the problems.\n\nSouza hosted the Thrash Against Cancer benefit in 2005 at The Pound in San Francisco, and appears onstage with Testament every time they play the Bay Area.\n\nIn 2006, he and Chuck Billy formed Dublin Death Patrol, an American thrash metal band. Alongside Willy Lange (Lȧȧz Rockit). In 2007, they went on a world tour and did Fields of Rock in the Netherlands alongside Heaven & Hell, Korn, Iron Maiden, Ozzy Osbourne, Machine Head, Black Label Society, Hatebreed, Megadeth, Papa Roach, Slayer, Motörhead, Mastodon, Velvet Revolver, Dream Theater, Suicidal Tendencies, Amon Amarth, DragonForce, Ill Niño, and DevilDriver.\n\nIn August 2008, Souza became the lead singer for the metal band TENET along with members Byron Stroud (Strapping Young Lad, Fear Factory, Zimmer's Hole), Jed Simon (Strapping Young Lad, Zimmer's Hole), Glen Alvelais (Testament, Forbidden) and Gene Hoglan (Death, Unearth, Dethklok, Strapping Young Lad, Dark Angel, Testament, Zimmer's Hole, Old Man's Child). The album was eventually released in July 2009.\n\nSouza, along with fellow members Kosta Varvatakis, Justin Sakagawa and his two sons Nicholas Souza and Cody Souza, started a thrash metal project called Hatriot. Hatriot released their debut album, \"Heroes of Origin\", on 25 January 2013. The group's second album, \"Dawn of the New Centurion\", was released on 21 February 2014 via Massacre Records. Steve eventually left Hatriot due to Exodus touring duties in 2015 and was succeeded by his son Cody.\n\nOn 8 June 2014, it was announced that Souza had rejoined Exodus. He appeared on Exodus' tenth studio album \"Blood In, Blood Out\", which is his first album with the band since 2004's \"Tempo of the Damned\".\n\nIn a July 2018 interview, Souza called himself a supporter of President Donald Trump, as he cites the low unemployment rate and the meetings with North Korean leader Kim Jong-un being beneficial to the country. Regarding Kim, Zetro mentioned: \"I think that's great – that's what you need to do. People need to touch together, not do it through channels\".\n\nSouza's voice is reminiscent of AC/DC's former vocalist Bon Scott, and can be heard on the AC/DC covers that Exodus recorded, including \"Overdose\" on 1989's \"Fabulous Disaster\", and \"Dirty Deeds Done Dirt Cheap\" on 2004's \"Tempo of the Damned\".\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2000682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000682", "title": "Habit evidence", "text": "Habit evidence\n\nHabit evidence is a term used in the law of evidence in the United States to describe any evidence submitted for the purpose of proving that a person acted in a particular way on a particular occasion based on that person's tendency to reflexively respond to a particular situation in a particular way.\n\nHabit evidence must be distinguished from character evidence, which seeks to show that a person behaved in a particular way on a particular occasion based on that person's prior bad acts, or based on the opinion of a witness, or based on that person's reputation in the community. Such character evidence is generally inadmissible.\n\nFederal Rule of Evidence 406 states, \"Evidence of the habit of a person or of the routine practice of an organization, whether corroborated or not and regardless of the presence of an eyewitness, is relevant to prove that the conduct of the person or organization on a particular occasion was in conformity with the habit or routine practice\".\n\nFor example, suppose there was a bar called \"Study Hall\" located near a college campus. \"Happy Hour Joe\" is the nickname of a regular patron of this bar, and he frequents the bar every day, Monday through Friday, at approximately 5:30 p.m. on his way home from work. Joe typically has 1 or 2 beers, and then leaves. A party could introduce this evidence of habit if the party wanted to show it was more probable that Joe was at Study Hall on Wednesday at 5:30 p.m. A party could also introduce the evidence if the party wanted to show it was more probable that, on his way home Wednesday at 6 p.m., Joe had been drinking. \n\nHowever, the evidence could not be introduced to show that Happy Hour Joe is an alcoholic, or that he is a careless driver. That would be character evidence.\n\n"}
{"id": "2000690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000690", "title": "Vahe", "text": "Vahe\n\nVahe Haykazuni (; 351 BC – 331 BC), also known simply as Vahe, was a king of Armenia. He was the last offspring of the Hayk Dynasty.\n\nAccording to Moses of Khoren, he was an ally of Darius III, King of Persia. He revolted against Alexander the Great but was killed in battle.\n\nBecause of his bravery, his name Vahe, became synonymous for the Armenians as a true warrior and a true king. Many Armenians are named Vahe (or Vahé) after him, Vahe being a common given name.\n\nWith his death, the Armenian Haykazuni dynasty came to an end and Armenia was subjected to 10 years of Macedonian rule.\n\n"}
{"id": "2000700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000700", "title": "Football Association of Cuba", "text": "Football Association of Cuba\n\nThe Asociación de Fútbol de Cuba is the official governing body of the sport of football in Cuba including the National Team. The league is composed of one amateur division with total of 8 teams.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2000713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000713", "title": "Fa'afafine", "text": "Fa'afafine\n\nFaʻafafine are people who identify themselves as having a third-gender or non-binary role in Samoa, American Samoa and the Samoan diaspora. A recognized gender identity/gender role in traditional Samoan society, and an integral part of Samoan culture, \"faʻafafine\" are assigned male at birth, and explicitly embody both masculine and feminine gender traits in a way unique to Polynesia. Their behaviour typically ranges from extravagantly feminine to conventionally masculine.\n\nA prominent Western theory, among the many anthropological theories about Samoans, was that if a family had more boys than girls or not enough girls to help with women's duties about the house, male children would be chosen to be raised as \"faʻafafine\"; although this theory has been refuted by studies.\n\nIt has been estimated that 1–5% of Samoans identify as \"faʻafafine\". estimates that there are 500 \"faʻafafine\" in Samoa, and the same number in the Samoan diaspora in New Zealand; while according to SBS news, there are up to 3000 \"faʻafafine\" currently living in Samoa.\n\nThe word \"faʻafafine\" includes the causative prefix \"faʻa–\", meaning \"in the manner of\", and the word \"fafine\", meaning \"woman\". It is cognate with linguistically related words or social categories in other Polynesian languages, such as the Tongan \"fakaleiti\" (also \"fakafefine\"), the Cook Islands Māori \"akavaʻine\", the Hawaiian and Tahitian \"māhū\" (literally \"in the middle\"), the Māori \"whakawāhine\", the Niuean \"fiafifine\" (also \"fakafifine\"), the Tokelauan \"fakafāfine\", the Tuvaluan \"pinapinaaine\", the Gilbertese \"binabinaaine\", and the Wallisian \"fakafafine\".\n\nThe FTM or female-to-male equivalent in Samoa are known variously as \"faʻatane\", \"faʻatama\", and \"fafatama\". Ultimately, Western terms like gay, transgender, FTM, etc., do not align exactly with Samoan terms like faʻafafine, faʻatane, etc., which have meaning within the faʻasamoa traditional cultural systems of Samoa.\n\nThe Samoan slang word \"mala\" (or \"devastation\" in the Samoan language) is in less frequent use for faʻafafine, as it arose from fundamentalist influenced homophobia and transphobia.\n\nThe history of faʻafafine, through the elisions of colonialism, is difficult to trace. Nafanua, the female warrior and chief of Samoan early history, is often held up as an icon of faʻafafine and faʻatane. In Dolgoy's recorded interviews with faʻafafine from the 1980s, we know that Johnny Fruitcake was a popular faʻafafine during the American military occupation of Samoa in World War II, and that Anita (Tony Schwenke) was the founder of Hollywood, a tailoring shop and house of refuge for faʻafafine in Apia in the 1960s–1970s. Beginning in the 1980s, through the Samoan diaspora, faʻafafine began having a presence in contemporary global cultures.\n\nFaʻafafine are known for their hard work and dedication to the family, in the Samoan tradition of \"tautua\" or service to family. Ideas of the family in Samoa and Polynesia are markedly different from Western constructions, and include all the members of a \"sa\", or communal family within the \"faʻamatai\" family systems.\n\nFaʻafafine, as a third gender, have sexual relationships almost exclusively with men who do not identify as faʻafafine, and sometimes with women, but apparently not with other faʻafafine. This third gender is so well-accepted in Samoan culture that most Samoans state that they have friendship relationships with at least one faʻafafine; it is, however, not totally accepted in other communities, such as some Catholic groups and traditional leaders. Traditionally, faʻafafine follow the training of the women's daily work in an \"Aiga\" (Samoan family group).\n\nFaʻafafine state that they \"loved\" engaging in feminine activities as children, such as playing with female peers, playing female characters during role play, dressing up in female clothes, and playing with female gender-typical toys. This is in contrast to women who stated that they merely \"liked\" engaging in those activities as children. Some faʻafafine recall believing they were girls in childhood, but knew better as adults. In Samoa, there is very seldom ridicule or displeasure towards a biologically male child who states that they are a girl. For instance, one study showed only a minority of parents (20 per cent) tried to stop their faʻafafine children from engaging in feminine behavior. Being pushed into the male gender role is upsetting to many faʻafafine. A significant number stated that they \"hated\" masculine play, such as rough games and sports, even more than females did as children.\n\nThe Society of Faʻafafine in American Samoa or \"Le Sosaiete o Faʻafafine i Amerika Samoa\" (S.O.F.I.A.S) is an organization designed to foster collaboration between the faʻafafine and the LGBTQI+ communities in both American Samoa, the Asia Pacific region, and the world. SOFIAS describes itself as an organization dedicated to balancing both Samoan values with western influences and aims to promote a positive attitude toward the Samoan faʻafafine community. Now known as \"Miss SOFIAS\", the Miss Island Queen Pageant has been held in Pago Pago, American Samoa, since 1979.\n\nThe Samoan Faafafine Association Incorporated (S.F.A.) of independent Samoa, based in Apia, has been active for over a decade. It works closely with government, local churches, and youth organizations, supporting community projects for the faafafine community, but also for elders and youth in Samoa. SFA has been active on the international level working with the United Nations and Pacific regional NGO's, on behalf of the faʻafafine, transgender, and LGBT communities of the Pacific Islands. They also been active working with media developing a more equitable representation of faʻafafine by media.\n\nThere has been legislative activity initiated in Samoa by the Samoa Faafafine Association, with faafafine lawyers Alex Suʻa and Phineas Hartson Matautia, on issues of LGBT rights in Samoa. Their efforts to repeal homophobic and transphobic laws inherited from the British and New Zealand colonial administrations have met with partial success. Marriage equality for faʻafafine is still unlawful in Samoa; and despite marriage equality legalization in the U.S., it is still not recognized in the US Territory of American Samoa.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2000715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000715", "title": "Mann Page", "text": "Mann Page\n\nMann Page (1749–1781), sometimes referred to as Mann Page, III, was an American lawyer and planter from Spotsylvania County, Virginia and a delegate for Virginia to the Continental Congress in 1777. His brother was Virginia Governor John Page.\n\nMann was born to Mann Page II and Ann Corbin Tayloe, daughter of John Tayloe I, (his third wife) at Rosewell Plantation in Gloucester County, Virginia. Mann was one of the younger of seven children. He attended the College of William & Mary before reading law.\n\nPage moved to Spotsylvania County and established his own plantation, known as \"Mannsfield\" near Fredericksburg, an almost direct replica of Mount Airy, the seat of the Tayloe Family. He married Mary Tayloe and the couple had three children. Around 1735, Page's father's half-sister, Maria Judith Page, married William Randolph III, the son of Thomas Randolph (of Tuckahoe) and the grandson of William Randolph I, and had four children.\n\nPage served only one term in the Continental Congress.\n\nHe defended a slave named Billy who wrote a letter to Thomas Jefferson and was sentenced to death by hanging for treason as a result.\n\nMann Page died at home in 1781, and was buried in the family plot at Mannsfield. The plantation was mostly destroyed during the Battle of Fredericksburg in the Civil War, but a remnant remains in the battlefield park.\n\nThe ruins of Rosewell Plantation, the home of early members of the Page family and one of the finest mansions built in the colonies, sit on the banks of the York River in Gloucester County. In 1916, a fire swept the mansion leaving a magnificent shell which is testament to 18th century craftsmanship and dreams, and the site of ongoing archaeological studies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2000719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000719", "title": "The Song of the Lioness", "text": "The Song of the Lioness\n\nThe Song of the Lioness is a young adult series of fantasy novels published in the 1980s by Tamora Pierce. The series consists of four books: \"\" (1983), \"In the Hand of the Goddess\" (1984), \"The Woman Who Rides Like a Man\" (1986) and \"Lioness Rampant\" (1988).\n\nNoblewoman Alanna of Trebond, disguised as the boy \"Alan\", exchanges places with her twin brother Thom, to go to the royal palace in the city of Corus to train for knighthood, while Thom studies magic. Throughout the four novels Alanna struggles with her gender identity, as well as going through puberty and bullying. Alanna befriends characters of a wide background during the quartet including George, the commoner king of the thieves; the scholar Sir Myles of Olau; senior students Gareth (Gary) of Naxen, Raoul of Goldenlake, and Prince Jonathan of Conté; Princess Thayet of Sarain; Liam Ironarm, a martial-arts champion; and Buriram (Buri) Tourakom, Thayet's bodyguard. Her principal rivals are classmate Ralon of Malven and Jonathan's kinsman Duke Roger. In the second volume, Alanna also acquires the magical cat 'Faithful', who accompanies her thereafter (Faithful is hinted to be an immortal, but his origins remain unknown. Because of her double identity as a girl masquerading as a boy, small size, magic, and impatience, Alanna often questions her own character. In the third book, she becomes an honorary member of the 'Bazhir' (a Bedouin-like ethnicity) and gains acceptance as a warrior, mage and a woman. In the final volume, Alanna becomes King's Champion to Jonathan and Baroness of the coastal estate Pirate's Swoop.\"\n\n\nPierce expresses the concept that boys and girls are alike. Our education system has a huge impact on boys and girls to modify themselves. Thus we should lead them to be what they want rather than constrain their creativity or put them into stereotypes which has been set by adult society. When it comes to adult society, Pierce points out that women's competence and contribution should be valued and respected. Because of gender inequity, women's contributions are often ignored, which is quite common in our society. She strongly calls for help to build a more fair and balanced society for men and women, boys and girls.\n\nThe series covers the life and development Alanna as she disguises herself as a male and has to exist in life as a male. This causes a lot of gender discussion as in the first book it is easy for her to disguise herself as a boy as she is still prepubescent. But in her first year of training to be a knight, Alanna goes through puberty and gets her first period. This causes quite a bit of discourse in Alanna as she struggles to identify herself as a female while living as a boy. While she does come out to a select close few as female sometimes intentionally and other times not, she does still struggle with it, even as they encourage her to explore both sides she has available to her. This theme is one of the reasons the series received such a high feminist regard as it was very open and honest towards the female body and its limitations versus being able to push oneself beyond that. In 2019, Pierce posted on Twitter that \"Alanna has always defied labels. She took the best bits of being a woman and a man, and created her own unique identity. I think the term is 'gender-fluid', though there wasn't a word for this (to my knowledge) when I was writing her.\"\n\nThe series as a whole pays attention to the struggles Alanna has due to her small frame, or her magic abilities. The first book she spends half of it being beaten up by a bully and his friends. This theme being played up in the series has been a big part towards the use of these novels in classes as it teaches some of the faults towards bullying and what is wrong with it and why this book is worth teaching.\n\n\n\nAmerican author Tamora Pierce published \"Alanna: The First Adventure,\" the first book in \"The Song of the Lioness\" quartet, in 1983. Tamora Pierce is said to have turned to writing at a young age as a means of escape from a troubled family life. Pierce drew much of her inspiration from other fantasy series such as The Lord of the Rings by J. R. R. Tolkien. Pierce set out to not only create an epic fantasy adventure, but to populate it with a strong female protagonist. Pierce saw the need for a female protagonist in the significant lacking of such heroes in the fantasy novels she enjoyed as a child, often stating that she wrote what she as a young-adult would have enjoyed. Originally, Pierce had written her acclaimed quartet as a single adult novel but, following editorial advice, rewrote it into the now famous young-adult fantasy series.\nPierce has said that she based the character of Alanna on her sister. \n\nPierce's book has been selected Recommended Fantasy List in June 1991, Popular Paperbacks for Young Adults in 2003 and Young Adult Library Services Association by YALSA. Her book has also been nominated south Carolina Children's Book Awards from 1985 to 1986. She has won Bookworm's Prize by ZDF Schüler-Express.\n\nAlanna: The First Adventure, was first published in 1983 by Atheneum Books, and then Random House Inc. The following books were published in 1984, 1986, and 1988, respectively. The series started out as a 732-page novel titled the Song of the Lioness, but her editor, Jean Karl, thought parts were too inappropriate for children and Tamora Pierce edited it into the present series.\n"}
{"id": "2000721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000721", "title": "Queen Elizabeth Country Park", "text": "Queen Elizabeth Country Park\n\nQueen Elizabeth Country Park is a large country park situated on the South Downs in southern England. It is located on the A3 road three miles south of Petersfield, Hampshire and lies within the South Downs National Park.\n\nThe park contains 1,400 acres (6 km²) of open access woodland and downland within the \"East Hampshire Area of Outstanding Natural Beauty\", including Butser Hill (886 ft), the highest point on the South Downs, and War Down (801 ft). The woodland was mostly planted in the 1930s; it consists mainly of beech trees. Several Long-distance footpaths run through the park including Staunton Way, Hangers Way and the South Downs Way bridleway. On a clear day the Isle of Wight can be seen from the top of Butser Hill.\n\nThe park also contains several well regarded, waymarked and graded mountain biking trails. These are designed, built and maintained by the dedicated volunteers of the QECP Trail Build Collective.\n\nThe Queen Elizabeth Country Park parkrun takes place within the park each Saturday.\n\nTo the east of the forest, south of the village of Buriton lies the wooded hill of Head Down (205 m), which \"is an area that caters for clubs that require land with privacy for outdoor recreational activities, such as archery or off-road vehicles.\"\n\nEvery July the Queen Elizabeth Country Park is the start point for Oxfam's biggest annual fundraising event, Trailwalker UK.\n\nThe Queen Elizabeth Country Park and the Queen Elizabeth National Park in Uganda are twinned in a project of \"cultural exchange, mutual support and has its main emphasis on supporting Conservation through working closely with and empowering local communities\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2000736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000736", "title": "Gauge fixing", "text": "Gauge fixing\n\nIn the physics of gauge theories, gauge fixing (also called choosing a gauge) denotes a mathematical procedure for coping with redundant degrees of freedom in field variables. By definition, a gauge theory represents each physically distinct configuration of the system as an equivalence class of detailed local field configurations. Any two detailed configurations in the same equivalence class are related by a gauge transformation, equivalent to a shear along unphysical axes in configuration space. Most of the quantitative physical predictions of a gauge theory can only be obtained under a coherent prescription for suppressing or ignoring these unphysical degrees of freedom.\n\nAlthough the unphysical axes in the space of detailed configurations are a fundamental property of the physical model, there is no special set of directions \"perpendicular\" to them. Hence there is an enormous amount of freedom involved in taking a \"cross section\" representing each physical configuration by a \"particular\" detailed configuration (or even a weighted distribution of them). Judicious gauge fixing can simplify calculations immensely, but becomes progressively harder as the physical model becomes more realistic; its application to quantum field theory is fraught with complications related to renormalization, especially when the computation is continued to higher orders. Historically, the search for logically consistent and computationally tractable gauge fixing procedures, and efforts to demonstrate their equivalence in the face of a bewildering variety of technical difficulties, has been a major driver of mathematical physics from the late nineteenth century to the present.\n\nThe archetypical gauge theory is the Heaviside–Gibbs formulation of continuum electrodynamics in terms of an electromagnetic four-potential, which is presented here in space/time asymmetric Heaviside notation. The electric field E and magnetic field B of Maxwell's equations contain only \"physical\" degrees of freedom, in the sense that every \"mathematical\" degree of freedom in an electromagnetic field configuration has a separately measurable effect on the motions of test charges in the vicinity. These \"field strength\" variables can be expressed in terms of the electric scalar potential formula_1 and the magnetic vector potential A through the relations:\n\nIf the transformation\n\nis made, then B remains unchanged, since\n\nHowever, this transformation changes E according to\n\nIf another change\n\nis made then E also remains the same. Hence, the E and B fields are unchanged if one takes any function and simultaneously transforms A and φ via the transformations () and ().\n\nA particular choice of the scalar and vector potentials is a gauge (more precisely, gauge potential) and a scalar function ψ used to change the gauge is called a gauge function. The existence of arbitrary numbers of gauge functions corresponds to the U(1) gauge freedom of this theory. Gauge fixing can be done in many ways, some of which we exhibit below.\n\nAlthough classical electromagnetism is now often spoken of as a gauge theory, it was not originally conceived in these terms. The motion of a classical point charge is affected only by the electric and magnetic field strengths at that point, and the potentials can be treated as a mere mathematical device for simplifying some proofs and calculations. Not until the advent of quantum field theory could it be said that the potentials themselves are part of the physical configuration of a system. The earliest consequence to be accurately predicted and experimentally verified was the Aharonov–Bohm effect, which has no classical counterpart. Nevertheless, gauge freedom is still true in these theories. For example, the Aharonov–Bohm effect depends on a line integral of A around a closed loop, and this integral is not changed by \n\nGauge fixing in non-abelian gauge theories, such as Yang–Mills theory and general relativity, is a rather more complicated topic; for details see Gribov ambiguity, Faddeev–Popov ghost, and frame bundle.\n\nBy looking at a cylindrical rod can one tell whether it is twisted? If the rod is perfectly cylindrical, then the circular symmetry of the cross section makes it impossible to tell whether or not it is twisted. However, if there were a straight line drawn along the length of the rod, then one could easily say whether or not there is a twist by looking at the state of the line. Drawing a line is gauge fixing. Drawing the line spoils the gauge symmetry, i.e., the circular symmetry U(1) of the cross section at each point of the rod. The line is the equivalent of a gauge function; it need not be straight. Almost any line is a valid gauge fixing, i.e., there is a large gauge freedom. To tell whether the rod is twisted, you need to first know the gauge. Physical quantities, such as the energy of the torsion, do not depend on the gauge, i.e., are gauge invariant.\n\nThe Coulomb gauge (also known as the transverse gauge) is used in quantum chemistry and condensed matter physics and is defined by the gauge condition (more precisely, gauge fixing condition)\n\nIt is particularly useful for \"semi-classical\" calculations in quantum mechanics, in which the vector potential is quantized but the Coulomb interaction is not.\n\nThe Coulomb gauge has a number of properties:\n\nwhere is an arbitrary scalar field called the gauge function. The fields that are the derivatives of the gauge function are known as pure gauge fields and the arbitrariness associated with the gauge function is known as gauge freedom. In a calculation that is carried out correctly the pure gauge terms have no effect on any physical observable. A quantity or expression that does not depend on the gauge function is said to be gauge invariant: All physical observables are required to be gauge invariant. A gauge transformation from the Coulomb gauge to another gauge is made by taking the gauge function to be the sum of a specific function which will give the desired gauge transformation and the arbitrary function. If the arbitrary function is then set to zero, the gauge is said to be fixed. Calculations may be carried out in a fixed gauge but must be done in a way that is gauge invariant.\n\nThe Lorenz gauge is given, in SI units, by:\n\nand in Gaussian units by:\n\nThis may be rewritten as:\n\nwhere formula_11 is the electromagnetic four-potential, ∂ the 4-gradient [using the metric signature (+, −, −, −)].\n\nIt is unique among the constraint gauges in retaining manifest Lorentz invariance. Note, however, that this gauge was originally named after the Danish physicist Ludvig Lorenz and not after Hendrik Lorentz; it is often misspelled \"Lorentz gauge\". (Neither was the first to use it in calculations; it was introduced in 1888 by George F. FitzGerald.)\n\nThe Lorenz gauge leads to the following inhomogeneous wave equations for the potentials:\n\nIt can be seen from these equations that, in the absence of current and charge, the solutions are potentials which propagate at the speed of light.\n\nThe Lorenz gauge is \"incomplete\" in some sense: There remains a subspace of gauge transformations which can also preserve the constraint. These remaining degrees of freedom correspond to gauge functions which satisfy the wave equation\n\nThese remaining gauge degrees of freedom propagate at the speed of light. To obtain a fully fixed gauge, one must add boundary conditions along the light cone of the experimental region.\n\nMaxwell's equations in the Lorenz gauge simplify to \nwhere formula_16 is the four-current.\n\nTwo solutions of these equations for the same current configuration differ by a solution of the vacuum wave equation \nIn this form it is clear that the components of the potential separately satisfy the Klein–Gordon equation, and hence that the Lorenz gauge condition allows transversely, longitudinally, and \"time-like\" polarized waves in the four-potential. The transverse polarizations correspond to classical radiation, i. e., transversely polarized waves in the field strength. To suppress the \"unphysical\" longitudinal and time-like polarization states, which are not observed in experiments at classical distance scales, one must also employ auxiliary constraints known as Ward identities. Classically, these identities are equivalent to the continuity equation \n\nMany of the differences between classical and quantum electrodynamics can be accounted for by the role that the longitudinal and time-like polarizations play in interactions between charged particles at microscopic distances.\n\nThe \"R\" gauges are a generalization of the Lorenz gauge applicable to theories expressed in terms of an action principle with Lagrangian density formula_19. Instead of fixing the gauge by constraining the gauge field \"a priori\", via an auxiliary equation, one adds a gauge \"breaking\" term to the \"physical\" (gauge invariant) Lagrangian\n\nThe choice of the parameter \"ξ\" determines the choice of gauge. The Landau gauge is classically equivalent to Lorenz gauge: it is obtained in the limit \"ξ\" → 0 but postpones taking that limit until after the theory has been quantized. It improves the rigor of certain existence and equivalence proofs. Most quantum field theory computations are simplest in the Feynman–'t Hooft gauge, in which ; a few are more tractable in other \"R\" gauges, such as the Yennie gauge .\n\nAn equivalent formulation of \"R\" gauge uses an auxiliary field, a scalar field \"B\" with no independent dynamics:\n\nThe auxiliary field, sometimes called a Nakanishi-Lautrup field, can be eliminated by \"completing the square\" to obtain the previous form. From a mathematical perspective the auxiliary field is a variety of Goldstone boson, and its use has advantages when identifying the asymptotic states of the theory, and especially when generalizing beyond QED.\n\nHistorically, the use of \"R\" gauges was a significant technical advance in extending quantum electrodynamics computations beyond one-loop order. In addition to retaining manifest Lorentz invariance, the \"R\" prescription breaks the symmetry under local gauge \"transformations\" while preserving the ratio of functional measures of any two physically distinct gauge \"configurations\". This permits a change of variables in which infinitesimal perturbations along \"physical\" directions in configuration space are entirely uncoupled from those along \"unphysical\" directions, allowing the latter to be absorbed into the physically meaningless normalization of the functional integral. When ξ is finite, each physical configuration (orbit of the group of gauge transformations) is represented not by a single solution of a constraint equation but by a Gaussian distribution centered on the extremum of the gauge breaking term. In terms of the Feynman rules of the gauge-fixed theory, this appears as a contribution to the photon propagator for internal lines from virtual photons of unphysical polarization.\n\nThe photon propagator, which is the multiplicative factor corresponding to an internal photon in the Feynman diagram expansion of a QED calculation, contains a factor \"g\" corresponding to the Minkowski metric. An expansion of this factor as a sum over photon polarizations involves terms containing all four possible polarizations. Transversely polarized radiation can be expressed mathematically as a sum over either a linearly or circularly polarized basis. Similarly, one can combine the longitudinal and time-like gauge polarizations to obtain \"forward\" and \"backward\" polarizations; these are a form of light-cone coordinates in which the metric is off-diagonal. An expansion of the \"g\" factor in terms of circularly polarized (spin ±1) and light-cone coordinates is called a spin sum. Spin sums can be very helpful both in simplifying expressions and in obtaining a physical understanding of the experimental effects associated with different terms in a theoretical calculation.\n\nRichard Feynman used arguments along approximately these lines largely to justify calculation procedures that produced consistent, finite, high precision results for important observable parameters such as the anomalous magnetic moment of the electron. Although his arguments sometimes lacked mathematical rigor even by physicists' standards and glossed over details such as the derivation of Ward–Takahashi identities of the quantum theory, his calculations worked, and Freeman Dyson soon demonstrated that his method was substantially equivalent to those of Julian Schwinger and Sin-Itiro Tomonaga, with whom Feynman shared the 1965 Nobel Prize in Physics.\n\nForward and backward polarized radiation can be omitted in the asymptotic states of a quantum field theory (see Ward–Takahashi identity). For this reason, and because their appearance in spin sums can be seen as a mere mathematical device in QED (much like the electromagnetic four-potential in classical electrodynamics), they are often spoken of as \"unphysical\". But unlike the constraint-based gauge fixing procedures above, the \"R\" gauge generalizes well to non-abelian gauge groups such as the SU(3) of QCD. The couplings between physical and unphysical perturbation axes do not entirely disappear under the corresponding change of variables; to obtain correct results, one must account for the non-trivial Jacobian of the embedding of gauge freedom axes within the space of detailed configurations. This leads to the explicit appearance of forward and backward polarized gauge bosons in Feynman diagrams, along with Faddeev–Popov ghosts, which are even more \"unphysical\" in that they violate the spin–statistics theorem. The relationship between these entities, and the reasons why they do not appear as particles in the quantum mechanical sense, becomes more evident in the BRST formalism of quantization.\n\nIn any non-Abelian gauge theory, any maximal Abelian gauge is an \"incomplete\" gauge which fixes the gauge freedom outside of the maximal Abelian subgroup. Examples are\n\nThis applies regularly in higher algebras (of groups in the algebras), for example the Clifford Algebra and as it is regularly.\n\nVarious other gauges, which can be beneficial in specific situations have appeared in the literature.\n\nThe Weyl gauge (also known as the Hamiltonian or temporal gauge) is an \"incomplete\" gauge obtained by the choice\n\nIt is named after Hermann Weyl. It eliminates the negative-norm ghost, lacks manifest Lorentz invariance, and requires longitudinal photons and a constraint on states.\n\nThe gauge condition of the multipolar gauge (also known as the line gauge, point gauge or Poincaré gauge (named after Henri Poincaré)) is:\n\nThis is another gauge in which the potentials can be expressed in a simple way in terms of the instantaneous fields\n\nThe gauge condition of the Fock–Schwinger gauge (named after Vladimir Fock and Julian Schwinger; sometimes also called the relativistic Poincaré gauge) is:\n\nwhere \"x\" is the position four-vector.\n\nThe nonlinear Dirac gauge condition (named after Paul Dirac) is:\n\n"}
{"id": "2000748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000748", "title": "Walney to Wear and Whitby Cycle Route", "text": "Walney to Wear and Whitby Cycle Route\n\nThe Walney to Wear and Whitby Cycle Route (or W2W) is the name of a cross-country cycle route in Northern England. It runs from Walney Island in Cumbria to Sunderland on the River Wear or Whitby.\n\nThe route was launched on 1 June 2005 to complement the popular Sea to Sea Cycle Route (C2C) that runs from Whitehaven to Sunderland. It is designed to be slightly harder and longer than this other route, totalling either . When launched the route used sections of NCN Routes 72, 68 and 71 west of the Pennines. From Tan Hill to Sunderland a new Regional Route was created and given the number 20, with a blue background. In 2012, after improvements to meet National Cycle Network standards, it was upgrade to National Route 70. Route signs were changed to the number 70 with a red background. Around the same time the sections on the route that had previously been Route 71 and 72 were re-signed as Route 70. In 2007 a southern branch from Barnard Castle to Whitby was added. Originally classified as regional route 52, it was upgraded to National Cycle Route 165 in 2012. The Walney to Whitby route is .\n\nThe W2W is a Y shaped route with one western leg from Walney to Barnard Castle, and two eastern legs Barnard Castle to Sunderland (northern) and Barnard Castle to Whitby (Southern).\n\n Walney to Barnard Castle\n\n\n Barnard Castle to Sunderland\n\n\n Barnard Castle to Whitby\n\n"}
{"id": "2000753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000753", "title": "Justice Party of Denmark", "text": "Justice Party of Denmark\n\nThe Justice Party (\"Retsforbundet\") of Denmark was founded in 1919 as an association and transformed into a political party in 1922. The party's platform is based upon the principles of U.S. economist Henry George - who advocated a single tax on all land - and those of Danish moral philosopher Severin Christensen.\n\nThe party was elected to parliament for the first time in 1926, and they were moderately successful in the post-war period and managed to join a governing coalition with the Social Democrats and the Social Liberal Party from the years 1957–60. In 1960 they dropped out of the parliament. However in the 1973 Danish parliamentary election (the so-called \"Landslide Election\") the party won 5 seats in Folketinget, because of their opposition to Danish membership of the European Economic Community. They lost their seats in the next election in 1975, but regained representation in 1977 and were represented until 1981. They also had a seat in the European Parliament 1978–79 (by Ib Christensen).\n\nThe 1970s were followed by a dropoff of party support, and the party ceased to run at a national level in 1990, but in 2005 the party ran together with Minoritetspartiet (the Minority Party): this wasn't with any success since the Minority Party only achieved 0.3% of the votes. They have decided to try to collect the 20 000 signatures necessary to participate in the next election to the Folketing.\n\nThey have also adopted a new communication strategy with four main policies: Danish exit from the EU, a better environmental policy, a humanitarian refugee and immigration policy and a tax reform with a 6% land tax financing a lower income tax and a reduction of the VAT on basic commodities from 25% to 12.5%. Their youth organization Retsforbundets Ungdom has been reinvigorated.\n\n"}
{"id": "2000757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000757", "title": "Battle of Glen Shiel", "text": "Battle of Glen Shiel\n\nThe Battle of Glen Shiel, or , took place on 10 June 1719 in the West Scottish Highlands, during the 1719 Jacobite Rising. A Jacobite army composed of Highland levies and Spanish marines, was defeated by British troops, reinforced by a Highland Independent Company.\n\nThe rising was backed by Spain, then engaged in the 1718 to 1720 War of the Quadruple Alliance with Britain. It was intended to support a landing in South-West England, which was cancelled several weeks before; contemporaries on both sides viewed its failure as having fatally damaged the Jacobite cause. \n\nGlen Shiel was the only battle of the 1688 to 1746 Jacobite Risings where the Jacobites remained on the defensive, rather than employing the Highland Charge. The battlefield is included in the Inventory of Historic Battlefields in Scotland, and protected by Historic Scotland.\n\nThe mountain where the action was fought is called Sgurr na Ciste Duibhe; a subsidiary peak named Sgurr nan Spainteach, or 'Peak of the Spaniards', commemorates the Spanish marines.\n\nWhen the War of the Spanish Succession ended in 1713, Spain lost its Italian possessions of Sicily and Sardinia, and their recovery was a priority for Giulio Alberoni, the Chief Minister. Sardinia was reoccupied in 1717 but when they landed on Sicily in July 1718, the Royal Navy destroyed the Spanish fleet at the Battle of Cape Passaro, beginning the War of the Quadruple Alliance.\n\nTo divert British resources from the Mediterranean, Alberoni devised a plan for 7,000 Spanish troops to land in South-West England, march on London and restore James Stuart. Historians question how serious he was; since Alberoni was one of the few contemporary statesmen with experience of amphibious operations, he was well aware of how unlikely this was. Cape Passaro demonstrated the Royal Navy's power in far less favourable circumstances, which meant the Spanish fleet was unlikely to even reach England, let alone be allowed to disembark large numbers of troops. When the Spanish fleet finally left Cádiz in March, it was battered by a ferocious storm, and took refuge in Coruña, where it remained.\n\nThe plan included a simultaneous rising in Scotland, to capture Inverness, and allow a Swedish expeditionary force to disembark. Driven by Charles XII of Sweden's dispute with Hanover, it shows the complexity caused by its ruler George I also being British monarch. Charles died in November 1718, ending any hope of Swedish support, and thus the entire purpose of the Scottish uprising.\n\nIn the end, only two frigates carrying George Keith and 300 Spanish soldiers reached Stornoway in the Isle of Lewis. Here they were joined by exiles from France, including the Earl of Seaforth, James Keith, the Marquess of Tullibardine, Lord George Murray and Cameron of Lochiel. On 13 April, they learned of the failure elsewhere; Tullibardine, who was commander of Jacobite land forces, recommended retreat, but Keith prevented this by ordering the two frigates back to Spain.\n\nWith no other option, the main force of around 1,000 Highlanders plus the Spanish troops prepared to march on Inverness, leaving their excess stores at Eilean Donan guarded by 40 Spaniards. On 10 May, a British naval squadron captured the castle, blocking any escape by sea, while Joseph Wightman's force of around 1,000 men with four Coehorn mortars advanced towards Glen Shiel. On 9 June, they reached Loch Cluanie, less than 8 miles (13 km) from the Jacobite camp.\n\nJohn Henry Bastide, a subaltern in Montague's regiment who had a long career as a military engineer drew a detailed plan of the battlefield and the movements of the opposing forces soon after the battle. The section detailing the battle itself is missing but it is possible to reconstruct the main elements.\n\nTullibardine prepared a strong position near the Five Sisters hills, with the Spanish in the centre and the Highlanders on the flanks behind a series of trenches and barricades. Wightman's force arrived about 4:00 pm on 10 June and began the attack an hour later by firing their mortars at the Jacobite flanking positions. This caused few casualties but the Scots had not encountered mortars before, allowing four platoons of Clayton's and Munro's to advance up the hill to their lines, then use grenades to bomb them out of their positions.\n\nOnce the Jacobite right had been dislodged, Harrison and Montague attacked the Jacobite left under Lord Seaforth. This was strongly entrenched behind a group of rocks on the hillside but skilful use of the mortars forced Seaforth's men to give way while he himself was badly wounded. Commanded by Colonel Nicolas de Castro Bolano, the Spanish in the centre stood their ground, but had to withdraw up the mountain as their flanks gave way.\n\nThe battle lasted until 9:00 pm; several accounts claim the heather caught fire and smoke combined with failing light enabled the bulk of the Scots to disappear into the night. The Spanish surrendered next morning, and as regular troops were later shipped home; Lord George Murray, Seaforth and Tullibardine were wounded but the Jacobite leaders also managed to escape. An analysis by historian Peter Simpson attributes Wightman's victory to skilful use of mortars, the superior firepower of his grenadiers and the aggression shown by his infantry.\n\nJacobite casualties were hard to estimate since few bodies were left on the field and the wounded managed to escape, including Seaforth and Lord George Murray; Wightman lost 21 killed and 120 wounded. Lord Carpenter, commander in Scotland, advised London pursuing the rebels was impractical, and it was best to let them go, arguing the Rising had only damaged the Jacobite cause. Tullibardine concurred; in his letter of 16 June 1719 to the Earl of Mar, he provides a description of the battle, and states 'it bid fair to ruin the King's Interest and faithful subjects in these parts.'\n\nIn October 1719, a British naval expedition captured the Spanish port of Vigo, held it for ten days, destroyed vast quantities of stores and equipment, then re-embarked unopposed, with huge quantities of loot. This demonstration of naval power led to Alberoni's dismissal, and ended Spanish support for the Jacobites.\n\nSenior Jacobites like Bolingbroke, Seaforth and Lord George Murray were allowed home, while others took service elsewhere. James Keith became a Prussian general, and was killed at Hochkirch in 1758. George joined the Prussian diplomatic corps; he refused to join the 1745 Rising, and was ambassador to Spain from 1759 to 1761. Although pardoned in 1763, he died in Potsdam in 1778.\n\nTullibardine remained in exile, took part in the 1745 Rising, and died in the Tower of London in July 1746. Lord George served as one of Prince Charles' senior commanders, and died in the Dutch Republic in October 1760.\n\nThe area known as 'Spanish Hill' is now owned by the National Trust for Scotland. The stone breastworks built by the Jacobites on the northern slope are a rare example of surviving fieldworks in Britain, and designated a scheduled monument.\n\nIn advance of the 300th anniversary of the battle, the National Trust for Scotland was involved in an archaeological survey of the site. Finds included ammunition from the mortars which were deployed against the Jacobite forces.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2000760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000760", "title": "Aveling and Porter", "text": "Aveling and Porter\n\nAveling and Porter was a British agricultural engine and steamroller (road roller) manufacturer. Thomas Aveling and Richard Thomas Porter entered into partnership in 1862, and developed a steam engine three years later in 1865. By the early 1900s, the company had become the largest manufacturer of steamrollers (road rollers) in the world.\n\nThomas Aveling was born 11 September 1824 at Elm, Cambridgeshire. His mother was widowed while Aveling was still young and the family settled in Hoo (Rochester, Kent). His mother remarried to the Rev. John D'Urban of Hoo. Thomas' stepfather brought him up with \"a Bible in one hand and a birch rod in the other\". Aveling was apprenticed to Edward Lake, a farmer, of Hoo. Aveling married Edward's niece, Sarah Lake (daughter of Robert Lake of Milton-Chapel near Canterbury) and in 1850 took a farm at Ruckinge on Romney Marsh. In 1851 he was recorded as a farmer and grazier employing 16 men and 6 boys. The business also included a drainage tile works. In 1859, Aveling invented the traction engine when he modified a Clayton & Shuttleworth portable engine, which had to be hauled from job to job by horses, into a self-propelled one. The alteration was made by fitting a long driving chain between the crankshaft and the rear axle. Aveling later invented the steamroller in 1867. Thomas Aveling is regarded as \"the father of the traction engine\".\n\nAveling had a reputation as something of a martinet in business, only keeping on the best men. However he did provide his staff with recreational facilities with a lecture room and mess room. Lectures were delivered on educational, social and political topics with Aveling himself in the chair and participation from the floor encouraged.\n\nFollowing the success of the Aveling and Porter business, Thomas rose to local prominence, first on the council and then between 1869 and 1870 as Mayor of Rochester. Politically he held rather radical views within the Liberal Party. Not surprisingly (given the location of the Invicta Works) he was a strong advocate of improving the river bank at Strood, which was at that time marsh. As mayor he took an interest in the significant local charity Watts' Charity and was appointed to the board of trustees in 1871. He helped lay out the public gardens in Rochester Castle, sat on the Rochester School Board and was a governor of the Sir Joseph Williamson's Mathematical School.\n\nHe was a member of the Royal Agricultural Society of England, serving as councilman 1875–1882 and on various committees. He secured the building of a chemical laboratory for the society. He was a member of the Institution of Civil Engineers, the Institution of Mechanical Engineers and the Iron and Steel Institute.\n\nAveling enjoyed yachting and had his own 28-ton yacht \"Sally\". He was active in the management of several yacht clubs including the Royal Cinque Ports and the Royal Victoria. After contracting a chill on board her in late February 1882 he developed pneumonia and died on 7 March 1882. Aveling is buried at St Werburgh Church, Hoo.\n\nThere is a secondary school in Rochester, Kent named after him called The Thomas Aveling School.\n\nAveling was the son of Thomas Aveling and his wife, Sarah. He was born on 25 August 1856 in Ruckinge, Kent. When he left school he worked for his father, taking control of Aveling & Porter in 1881. After conversion to a limited liability company in 1895 he became its chairman and managing director until he retired. In 1890 he married Richard Porter's niece, Rosita Marian Porter (1865—1904) daughter of Arthur Porter, manufacturing stationer, and his wife born Anna Maria Atkin. They had two sons, Thomas (1892-1982) and Arthur Francis (1893-1954).\n\nAs a prominent local businessman Aveling served on a number of public bodies. He was chairman of the Medway Conservancy, on the board of the Rochester Bridge wardens, and a Justice of the Peace. Like his father he was a member of the ICE and IME and RASE. He was president both of the Smithfield Club and the Agricultural Engineers Association. He was on the board of the Maidstone manufacturers of steam wagons Jesse Ellis Ltd.\n\nAveling retired from Aveling and Porter in 1928 and died of a heart attack on 5 June 1931 at home in Pettings Court, Ash near Wrotham, Kent.\n\nMajor Aveling was the son of T.L.Aveling and therefore the grandson of the founder. He was born on 20 January 1892 and during the First World War rose to the rank of Major. He was awarded the Military Cross in 1917.\n\nMajor Aveling became a director of A and GE, taking control of Aveling & Porter on his father's retirement in 1928.\n\nRichard Porter's grandfather John (1736–1812) established a grocery business in Sheffield, Yorkshire. His son Thomas married Ann Girdler and they had Richard in around 1835. By 1861 Richard had moved to Enfield, London where he married Marianne Atkin (b. 1840) who had also been born in Sheffield.\n\nIn 1862 he went into partnership with Thomas Aveling and subsequently moved to Rochester where in around 1863 he had his first child, Edith. 1871 he is recorded as living at Boley Hill House with his wife, four children and four servants. His occupation is recorded in the census as \"Manufacturing Engineer\".\n\nTen year later in 1881 the census locates him at Raleigh, Fox Grove Road, Beckenham with the family and servants as before plus his widowed sister-in-law Mary Studer. He remained in Beckenham, the house being recorded as 26, Foxgrove Road after 1901. He died in 1913. His will was proven the following year when he was shown as \"Engineer and Chairman of Aveling and Porter\".\n\nWith help from his father-in-law he was able in either 1850 or 1851 to buy a small millwrighting business at Edward's Yard, Rochester. The business produced and repaired agricultural machinery. Aveling had been concerned by the slow pace of agricultural labour arising from the \"ancient and defective construction\" of the machines. Starting from 1852 he concentrated on experiments in steam cultivation, culminating in the first steam plough in 1856. So successful was the plough that some Kent farmers presented him with an award of 300 guineas in 1858.\n\nIn 1858 Aveling had three premises: 24, High Street, Rochester; 27, Edwards Yard, Rochester; and a small foundry on the site of the future Invicta Works in Strood.\n\nTo a man such as Aveling the spectacle of portable engines being dragged around by teams of horses when the engines had more than sufficient power to move themselves seemed nonsensical. He compared using six horses to pull such an engine as \"six sailing vessels towing a steamer\" which was \"an insult to mechanical science\". In 1858 he adapted Clayton, Shuttleworth & Co portables by attaching a chain from the flywheel to a cog on a rear wheel. In the following year he obtained a patent for this which included the specification for devices for varying the tension in the chain and for disengaging it \"so that a traction engine can be used as a stationary portable engine at will\". His foundry and other premises were too small for the construction of a complete traction engine, so the 1859 locomotive was built for him by Claytons.\n\nHis 1860 catalogue describes him as an \"Iron Founder and Agricultural Engineer\". He was the sole agent in Kent for Fowler's Steam Plough, for Burgess & Key's Patent Reaping Machines. He was an agent (though not apparently sole agent) for Claytons. The front page offers \"Every description of Agricultural Machinery supplied at Manufacturer's Prices\" and ends with \"Castings to order\", \"Machinery and Steam Engines repaired\". Inside was \"Aveling's Patent Locomotive Steam Thrashing Train\" with engine, threshing machine and straw carrier. Not withstanding his claims as an iron founder, this was made for him by Claytons.\n\nHaving solved the propulsion issue, Aveling next turned to steering. His first engines had required a horse in shafts attached to the front wheels for steerage. In 1860 he replaced the horse with a steerable wheel in between the horse shafts. The steersman sat on the back of the shafts and operated a tiller to turn the wheel.\n\nIn 1860, the business moved to Strood, on a site adjacent to Rochester Bridge. Preston reports the business as being established by 1861 at which time Aveling was able to build 7 1/2 ton engines.\n\nWith all this expansion Aveling needed extra capital, and so in 1862 he went into partnership with Richard Porter to create the firm of Aveling & Porter. As well as the capital, Aveling was freed of some of the commercial work.\n\nThe firm exhibited their \"Patent Agricultural Locomotive Engine for Threshing, Ploughing and General Traction Purposes\" at Battersea in 1862. Aveling moved the cylinder forward from over the firebox to the front of the boiler. The steam jacket that surrounds the cylinders did away with the need for a separate dome (the patent stated that the cylinders were placed within the dome). The jacket reduced condensation, and hence priming, in the cylinders, valve gear and now non-existent supply piping. Ports between the jacket and boiler communicated live steam. The crankshaft was now close to the wheels and the long chain could be first shortened, then disposed of in favour of gears. In 1863 Aveling patented two-speed gearing. Exports at this period were to Prussia and Australia.\n\nTesting traction engines was a public affair, one was tested by driving it through Rochester to the station and back, another by driving it up Frindsbury hill. The local public turned out to see such trials and according to the \"Chatham News\" of August 1862 they were \"well pleased and altogether favourably impressed\". Whilst the local public might have been impressed, more generally opposition to road locomotives was building. In 1865 the Locomotive Act (the \"red flag\" act) was introduced which reduced speeds from the previous limit of to in town and outside. To enforce the speeds a man had to walk in front carrying a red flag to warn bystanders.\n\nAveling pursued his interest in steamrollers, producing the first practical example in 1865. It was tested in Military Road, Chatham, Star Hill in Rochester and in Hyde Park, London. The machine proved a huge success. Aveling and Porter steam rollers were exported to Europe and as far afield as India and North America.\n\nStarting in 1868 Aveling & Porter started to supply the government with road locomotives, traction engines and rollers. Up until 1894 they were known as Steam Sappers, since they were built to requirements issues by the Royal Engineers (the Sappers). In 1875, the French government conducted trials of steam sappers and were satisfied enough to order some; subsequently the Russian government conducted extensive trials in 1876 involving soft ground, steep inclines and tests of the ability of a train to be safely brought down hill. The test engine was fitted with a wire cable by which guns could be pulled up hill. Several engines were subsequently purchased and gave satisfactory service in the Russo-Turkish war. Sappers were also sold to Italy.\n\nTechnical innovation continued. Unlike railway locomotives where equipment is mounted on a frame, traction engines use the boiler as the frame. This cuts down on weight but introduces stresses and holes for the rivets which could be a source of leaks or failures. In 1870 Aveling introduced horn plates which were extensions of the outer firebox and which carried all the motion, cranks and gearing. Preston regards this as one of Aveling's most important inventions. Also in 1870 he took out a patent on a simplified reversing gear. Eight years later he managed to move the gears between the bearings, not overhanging. The resultant motion was stronger and narrower allowing a more compact engine.\n\nAt the Royal Agricultural Society of England (RASE) meeting at Leicester in 1868 Aveling showed \"Little Tom\", a small engine fitted with a crane. By 1874 the catalogue listed a 2-ton crane engine with a rear differential to permit tight cornering without disconnecting either wheel.\n\nIn 1881 Thomas' son, Thomas Lake Aveling, took over control of the business. Writing in 1899 Henry Smetham commented that the business had \"doubled in size about every six years\". Employee headcount rose from 400 in 1872 to 1,000 in the mid-1890s and peaked at 1,500.\nA new office block was built in 1886, which subsequently housed the drawing office. The adjacent foundry business of Messrs Collis and Stace was purchased in 1895 along with the Pelican Yard. Avelings were now making cement manufacturing machinery (including concrete mixers), lamp posts and girders, the latter of which can be seen in the roof of the covered slip at Chatham Historic Dockyard. In the same year the company was incorporated as a limited company. In 1899 Avelings turned out \"one large road engine per day\", paid £70,000 pa in wages locally using \"220 lathes and other tools\". In common with most engineering works Avelings made a lot of their own machine tools themselves. However, in 1900 the \"Public Health Engineer\" magazine stated that \"modern American machinery is rapidly replacing the older forms of lathes and shaping and planing machines\".\n\nIn 1901 Aveling took part in a joint venture with Vickers Sons and Maxim to build a steel casting facility. Details were finalised and the plant constructed the following year. By 1903 Vickers were reporting poor results due to insufficient orders (in particular field guns) and in March 1904 pulled out, the works subsequently closing in October 1904. A 21-year lease to William Towler (trading as the Medway Steel Company) followed but then the works finally closed.\n\nIn the years prior to the First World War the Pelican Yard was built up and used for the assembly and testing of petrol engines for rollers and lorries. On the outbreak of war petrol work stopped and the works were used as a store. Although concentrating on steam rollers (for which there was an expanding market), the company also made traction engines, ploughing engines, steam wagons and tramway locomotives. Other agricultural products were contracted out. In the early twentieth century Aveling & Porter were supplying about 70% of the British market for road rollers.\n\nIn 1919 Aveling and Porter joined the Agricultural & General Engineers (AGE) combine. The combine had been formed at the joint instigation of T.L.Aveling and Archibald Maconochie. As well as Aveling & Porter, AGE took over James and Frederick Howard Ltd and twelve other companies. Production of Aveling and Porter steam wagons was transferred to Richard Garrett & Sons.\n\nThe holding company's overheads exceeded any savings of scale. The combine started to drag down A&P, and by 1928 headcount was down and short-time working had been implemented. In 1932 AGE went into receivership, bringing down Aveling and Porter with it. In the aftermath Aveling and Porter combined with Barford & Perkins in 1933 to form Aveling-Barford which continued to make steam and motor rollers. The rescue, part-funded by Ruston & Hornsby of Lincoln, involved the firm moving to Grantham, Lincolnshire, from the Rochester site. After the Second World War the company continued to make motor and steam rollers as well as expanding into other construction equipment.\n\nThe sole remaining building on the Strood site was demolished by Medway Council in 2010.\n\nAveling-Barford is now part of the Wordsworth Holdings Group, a family-owned company. The company is based in Grantham, and still trades under the name Barford which uses a modern version of the Aveling-Barford \"prancing horse\" logo. Barford manufacturers and sells a wide range of site dumpers.\n\nAveling & Porter built more steam rollers than all the other British manufacturers combined. They also built traction engines and steam wagons.\n\nThe company also built a few pairs of ploughing engines. A pair of which (unique in the UK) survive in the collection at the Thursford Steam Museum at Thursford, Norfolk. The Thursford Collection includes 27 Aveling & Porter steam tractors and rollers and 16 more by other manufacturers.\n\nAnother example of Aveling and Porters engineering skills can be seen in the massive covered slips at Chatham Dockyard. These Leviathans pre-date the great London train sheds of St. Pancras, King's Cross and Paddington—traditionally understood to be the oldest and largest metal framed structures of the time.\n\nAveling & Porter built several small shunting / tram locos based on their traction engines. They were basically traction engines with flanged wheels and no steering. Their advantages were that they were cheap to manufacture (and to design in the first place) and they could be operated with minimal training by someone who was familiar with traction engines.\n\nPrior to 1868 the Royal Engineers had been experimenting with steam traction. Early examples had used modified railway locomotives mounted on a variety of wheels to traverse soft land. The locomotives were far too heavy to be effective, on one occasion breaking through the road near the Royal Arsenal at Woolwich into cellars below. With the development of the relatively lightweight traction engine specifically for road use, the Royal Engineers turned their attention to them.\n\nThe first Steam Sapper was ordered from Aveling & Porter in 1868. Steam sapper number 1 was required to operate a circular saw, grindstone, lathe and joiner as well as drawing 5 tons up a 1 in 12 slope. It performed this, but was more than a quarter of a ton over the specified maximum weight of five tons. The heaviest field gun in use at that time was the 64 pdr Armstrong breech loading siege gun weighing . Since pontoon bridges would be constructed to support this gun, steam sappers were required to weigh less than the gun so that they would not overload the bridges. Steam sapper number one had a loading on the rear wheels less than this, and so was accepted.\n\nDuring 1869 military exercises in Dover included drawing a battery of guns from the railway station up to the castle, a high, steep hill. As a result of this steam sapper number 2 was purchased in 1871. This was a lighter and more powerful engine than number one. The engine was rated 7 nhp (compared to 6), used spur gears for the drive (compared to chain) and used a differential drive on the rear axle to avoid the need to disconnect one wheel which the earlier locomotive had required. On test it drew up the 1 in 11 gradient of Star Hill, Rochester.\n\nIn late 1871 the Inspector General of Fortifications was informed by the RE Committee that only Aveling and Porter had a suitable engine. As a result, five more were ordered in 1872.\n\nSome of the steam sappers were fitted with railway wheels. Yeatman records steam sappers numbers 3–7 as being 2-2-0T locomotives on the Lodge Hill and Upnor Railway. Yeatman's editor, Mullett and Nowers disagree. Aveling-Barford have checked their records and have no records of any steam sappers being supplied other than for road use. Nowers states that sapper number 9 was fitted with railway wheels for a trial and that sapper number 12 was purchased with them. In the table below possible railway use is recorded, in all cases this would be upon the LH&UR.\n\nSapper number 8 was dismantled and sent in parts to Cape Coast Castle in the Gold Coast to take part in the Ashanti Campaign of 1873. The absence of decent roads made its use as a traction engine unsatisfactory. However it performed well as a stationary engine, particularly working the saw bench.\n\nSapper number 24 was the last Aveling and Porter engine to be called a steam sapper. It was used by the newly formed Balloon Corps in 1885. The locomotive and another one ordered shortly afterwards were used to haul \"balloon trains\". Each train consisted of five wagons carrying gas cylinders, a water cart, and a wagon for the balloon, basket and winch. Balloons were normally employed as elevated observation platforms and as such were tethered though observers were trained in how to handle free flight in case the balloon broke away.\n\nAveling and Porter engines continued to be purchased up to 1899 though losing ground to Fowlers. At least one engine saw service in the Boer War and four were still in service in 1906 with the Army Service Corps which progressively took over responsibility for transport from the Royal Engineers between 1903 and 1906.\n\nTwo Aveling and Porter products are found in The Railway Series books by the Rev. W. Awdry and the TV series based on the books: George the Steamroller, and Fergus the Railway Traction Engine.\n\nThe road roller used in the 1953 comedy film The Titfield Thunderbolt, which has a duel with a railway locomotive, was one of their engines (works number 5590, \"Maid Marion\").\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2000761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000761", "title": "William Robinson (colonial administrator, born 1836)", "text": "William Robinson (colonial administrator, born 1836)\n\nSir William Robinson (; 9 February 1836 – 1 December 1912) was a British colonial governor who was the last Governor of Trinidad and the first Governor of the merged colony of Trinidad and Tobago. He was also the 11th Governor of Hong Kong.\n\nRobinson was born in 1836 in Suffolk, England. He was the eldest son of the Rev. Isaac Banks Robinson and Jane Susan (\"née\" Syer). He entered the Colonial Office at age 18 as a clerk, and within several years served as private secretary to Herman Merivale, Frederic Rogers and Edward Cardwell.\n\nHe became a Member of Slave Trade Commission in 1869 and was appointed Governor of Bahama Isles from 1874 to 1880. A year later, Robinson was appointed governor of the Windward Islands, a position he held until 1884. Afterwards, he became Governor of Barbados, and was transferred to become the Governor of Trinidad a year later. In 1889 the colony of Tobago was merged with Trinidad into the united colony of Trinidad and Tobago, with Robinson as its first governor, a position he held until 1891.\n\nIn 1891, Robinson was appointed Governor of Hong Kong, a position he served until 1898 and later became his last post in the Colonial Services. During his tenure, Sun Yet-Sen graduated from the colony's Medical School. Also, Robinson received the thanks of the Hong Kong government for the settlement of the Fanny Josephine affair (Venezuela).\n\nRobinson married twice. He married his first wife, Julia Sophia Dampier, 17 July 1862 at St. Saviour's Church, Paddington. The couple had three sons. She died in 1881 and Robinson married FeliciaIda Helen Rattray three years later, 21 July 1884 in Nassau. Helen died ten years later. The couple had three daughters. Robinson himself died of heart disease on 1 December 1912 in London.\n\n\nRobinson Road, a major thoroughfare in Nassau, Bahamas, is named after Sir William Robinson, during whose term it was laid out.\nDespite public perceptions to the contrary, there are no places in Hong Kong named after Sir William Robinson. Places in Hong Kong with the name \"Robinson\" were actually named for an earlier Governor, Hercules Robinson, later the 1st Baron Rosmead.\nRobinson, Mark Aitchison Young and Christopher Patten are the only former Governors of Hong Kong who have nothing in Hong Kong named in their honour.\n\n"}
{"id": "2000763", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000763", "title": "Bill Finch (architect)", "text": "Bill Finch (architect)\n\nJames H. \"Bill\" Finch (1913 in Atlanta – July 28, 2003) was an American Architect and founder of architectural firm FABRAP.\n\nFinch graduated from the Georgia Institute of Technology in 1936 with a BS Architecture.\n\nFinch was also a retired US Marine Lt. Colonel. He saw combat on Iwo Jima and was, at one part in the epic battle, Executive Officer of the battalion in the 28th Regiment which raised the flag on Mount Suribachi. He also saw service in the Korean War.\n\nKnown as a modernist, in a city, he was also reported to have disliked excessive parking lots and unburied wires. Major projects he had a hand in include Atlanta Stadium (1965), Five Points MARTA station (1979), Coca-Cola headquarters (1980) and BellSouth tower (1982).\n"}
{"id": "2000768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000768", "title": "Richard Birdsall Rogers", "text": "Richard Birdsall Rogers\n\nRichard Birdsall Rogers (15 January 1857 – 2 October 1927) was a Canadian civil and mechanical engineer whose most significant achievement was the design of the Peterborough Lift Lock, a boat lift at Peterborough, Ontario, Canada.\n\nFrom 1874 to 1878, he studied at McGill College, Montreal, graduating with a degree in civil and mechanical engineering. In 1879, he was appointed a Provincial Land Surveyor and, in 1880, he became Dominion Land Surveyor, a position he retained until 1884 when he entered private practice, taking up the post of Superintending Engineer of the Trent Canal.\n\nIn this role, Rogers suggested the use of hydraulic lift locks to the Minister of Railways and Canals, John Haggart, who commissioned him to travel to Europe to study existing boat lifts in France (the Fontinettes boat lift), Belgium (Lifts on the old Canal du Centre) and England (the Anderton Boat Lift near Northwich in Cheshire).\n\nRogers was the grandson of a noted Provincial Land Surveyor, Richard Birdsall who had surveyed most of the lands in the Peterborough area. Named in his honour are Rogers Cove, a park on Peterborough's Little Lake, and Rogers Street, both of which are close to his lift lock.\n\n"}
{"id": "2000781", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000781", "title": "Graeme McDowell", "text": "Graeme McDowell\n\nGraeme McDowell (born 30 July 1979) is a professional golfer from Northern Ireland who plays on both the PGA Tour and European Tour. He is well known for winning the 2010 U.S. Open at Pebble Beach, where he ended a 40-year drought for Europeans at the tournament.\n\nMcDowell has won eleven events on the European Tour, and four on the PGA Tour. He has also represented Ireland at the World Cup and he has been a member of the European Ryder Cup team on four occasions. He has appeared in the top-10 in the Official World Golf Ranking and his best ranking position was 4th (January to March 2011).\n\nMcDowell was born in Portrush, County Antrim, Northern Ireland, and played with Rathmore Golf Club since he was eight or nine years old. His uncle, Uel Loughery, coached him there when he was younger. At the age of 14, McDowell played senior cup for Rathmore.\n\nIn his teens he attended Coleraine Academical Institution. He then studied engineering at \nQueen's University in Belfast, then transferred to the University of Alabama at Birmingham, where he played college golf through the spring of 2002.\n\nAs a senior with the Blazers in 2002, McDowell won six of twelve college events and the Haskins Award, given to the outstanding collegiate golfer in the United States. He was a member of the Great Britain and Ireland team which retained the Walker Cup in 2001 at Sea Island, Georgia.\n\nMcDowell turned professional in 2002 and won that season's Volvo Scandinavian Masters, which was only his fourth start on the European Tour.\n\nThat win led to McDowell being given honorary life membership at the Royal Portrush Golf Club. He did not win in his second season, but in 2004 he claimed the Telecom Italia Open and finished sixth on the European Tour's Order of Merit. In 2005, he divided his time between the European and U.S. PGA Tours.\n\nHe was not yet a full member of the PGA Tour, but his top-50 placing in the Official World Golf Ranking ensured that he received invitations to play in many events in the United States.\n\nMcDowell managed two top-10 finishes on the PGA Tour, including a tie for second place at the Bay Hill Invitational, which enabled him to earn enough money to become fully exempt on the PGA Tour in 2006. He failed, however, to finish in the top-150 in the 2006 PGA Tour money list, and decided to return to the European Tour for 2007.\n\nIn 2008 he returned to the winner's enclosure by winning first the Ballantine's Championship in South Korea, and then the Barclays Scottish Open. He played in the 2008 Ryder Cup, earning 2.5 points for the European team and finished the season ranked fifth on the Order of Merit.\n\nIn June 2010, McDowell won the Celtic Manor Wales Open by three shots. This was his fifth European win.\n\nIn June 2010, McDowell won the U.S. Open at Pebble Beach, becoming the first Northern Irishman to accomplish the feat, and the first European U.S. Open winner since Tony Jacklin in 1970.\n\nHe was also the first player from the United Kingdom to win a major championship since Paul Lawrie won The Open Championship in 1999, and the first Northern Irishman to win a major since Fred Daly won the 1947 Open Championship.\n\nMcDowell was only the second European to win the U.S. Open since 1925. He rose to number 13 in the world rankings, then a career high, and became the eighth European in the top 15.\n\nMcDowell embraced his father, Kenny, on Father's Day, and almost immediately called fellow golfer Rory McIlroy to joke about a possible partnership in the 2010 Ryder Cup. He celebrated with a large crowd, including fellow golfer Pádraig Harrington, in the United States.\n\nThere were celebrations in his native Portrush as well when news of McDowell's win broke, with \"the mother of all parties\" planned to get underway in the town.\n\nThe \"famous win\" set off \"a brand new life\" for McDowell, according to \"The Guardian\"s golf correspondent, Lawrence Donegan. \"The Daily Telegraph\"s Mark Reason opined: \"The previous three tournaments in the United States have been won by Lee Westwood, Justin Rose [both English] and now McDowell. It's an unprecedented surge and America must feel like it is being invaded\".\n\nMcDowell's manager, Conor Ridge, accepted bookings for American TV shows, such as \"The Tonight Show with Jay Leno\", as well as a cameo role in \"Entourage\". Shortly after winning the U.S. Open, McDowell joined the PGA Tour and earned a five-year exemption for winning a major.\n\nOn Monday, 4 October 2010, McDowell was charged with putting to win on the 17th green of the 2010 Ryder Cup at Celtic Manor. His was the last match of the 12 player singles, with his opponent being Hunter Mahan, to win the tournament 14.5/13.5 for Europe, and it was his 5-foot putt that was conceded to give victory to Europe.\n\nHe finished the 2010 season with another win at the Andalucía Valderrama Masters and was second behind Martin Kaymer in the 2010 Race to Dubai standings.\n\nOn 5 December 2010, McDowell beat Tiger Woods in a playoff to win the 2010 Chevron World Challenge.\n\nMcDowell and Kaymer shared the European Tour Golfer of the Year award. At the end of 2010, McDowell was ranked 6th in the world.\n\nMcDowell had a solid but unspectacular season in 2011 where he did not record a win on either of the main tours. He finished third on four occasions, three on the European Tour and once on the PGA Tour. McDowell finished the year 16th on the European Tour's Race to Dubai, his year consisting of 17 out of 18 cuts made and five top-10 finishes.\n\nIn May 2011, McDowell was in contention to win the PGA Tour's flagship event, The Players Championship, but shot a final round 79 to end his chances. He earned over a million dollars on the PGA Tour but could only finish the year 73rd in the FedEx Cup standings.\n\nMcDowell opened up the year with a third-place finish at the Abu Dhabi HSBC Golf Championship on the European Tour in January. He finished two strokes behind winner Robert Rock.\n\nIn March 2012, McDowell recorded his joint best finish on the PGA Tour outside of his U.S. Open win, when he finished as runner-up, five strokes behind Tiger Woods at the Arnold Palmer Invitational. This was the second time McDowell had been a runner-up on the PGA Tour. Two weeks later, McDowell had his best performance at The Masters, when he finished in a tie for 12th. He shot a final round of 68 to jump up inside the top 15.\n\nMcDowell was runner up in May 2012 at the Volvo World Match Play Championship at the Finca Cortesin Golf Club, losing the final 1 down to Belgium's Nicolas Colsaerts. In a tight match, McDowell was never more than 2 down but was never in front in the match either.\n\nAfter the match he admitted that the better player won and that he played poorly, shooting five over for the round. Previously in the knockout stages, McDowell had beaten Richard Finch 3&2, Sergio García on the 19th hole and Rafael Cabrera-Bello 2 up.\n\nIn June 2012, the U.S. Open returned to California, when it was held at the Olympic Club in San Francisco, less than 100 miles from Pebble Beach, the site of McDowell's 2010 U.S. Open victory. Again he was in contention after rounds of 69-72-68 on the first three days had positioned him at one under for the championship.\n\nHe was tied for the lead going into the final day with Jim Furyk, both playing in the final group on Sunday. The second time in three years that McDowell had featured in the final group of the U.S. Open. Despite a disappointing front nine, where he found himself four over, he made several birdies on the back nine, including one on the 17th hole to trail by one shot with one hole to play.\n\nAfter a good drive and approach to the green, he was faced with a 25-foot putt to tie the lead and force a playoff, but narrowly missed it to the left and had to settle for a par. This led to McDowell finishing in a tie for second place with Michael Thompson, one stroke behind the champion, Webb Simpson.\n\nThe following month, at the 2012 Open Championship at Royal Lytham & St Annes, McDowell was in contention on Sunday for the second consecutive major. He had shot rounds of 67-69-67 during the first three days to be at seven under par and trail leader Adam Scott by four strokes in second place with Brandt Snedeker. McDowell played in the final group on Sunday for the second consecutive major championship and third time overall, alongside Scott. He had a disappointing round of 75 (+5) and was never in contention for the championship all afternoon. His challenge was ended at the par five 11th, when he snap hooked his second shot into the trees left and had to take a penalty drop, costing him a bogey. He finished the championship in a tie for 5th with fellow European Luke Donald. It was however his best ever placing at The Open Championship. In December, he won the World Challenge, beating Keegan Bradley by three shots.\n\nMcDowell started the season on the PGA Tour at the Northern Trust Open, where he shot 73-72 to miss the cut. He played the following week at the WGC-Accenture Match Play Championship and reached the quarter-finals. It was his best ever showing at the tournament, beating Pádraig Harrington 2-up, Alexander Norén in 20 holes and Shane Lowry 3&2, before losing 1-down to Jason Day in the quarter-finals.\n\nMcDowell played in The Honda Classic the week after and recorded his second consecutive top-10 with a T-9 finish. The next week he played in the final group with Tiger Woods in the WGC-Cadillac Championship and finished in a T-3 position. He missed the cut in the Masters Tournament by one stroke, bogeying the last hole. The next week he played the RBC Heritage. In the final round in stormy weather, he posted a two-under-par 69. He entered a playoff with fellow U.S. Open champion Webb Simpson. Simpson bogeyed the first hole and McDowell parred to win his first regular PGA Tour event and his first tour win since 2010.\n\nThe win moved him into 8th in the world rankings. In the 2013 Volvo World Match Play Championship, he defeated Thongchai Jaidee, 2 & 1, to win. The win moved him to the top of the Race to Dubai and 7th in the world. He missed the cut in the European Tour's flagship event, the BMW PGA Championship. In the 2013 U.S. Open he missed the cut; the event he had won in 2010. This was the first time that he had ever missed the cut in that event. In July 2013, he won the Alstom Open de France, shooting a final round of 67 to finish four shots ahead of Richard Sterne.\n\nIn 2014, McDowell continued to play on both the European Tour and PGA Tour. In the WGC-Accenture Match Play Championship he made comebacks including winning the 18th in each of his first 3 matches before losing to eventual runner up Victor Dubuisson in the quarter finals.\n\nMcDowell followed this up with a top-10 finish at the second World Golf Championship of the season at the Cadillac Championship, before missing the cut at the first major of the year at the Masters.\n\nMcDowell made the cut at the U.S. Open and came close to a maiden national open win at the Irish Open where he finished in a tie for 6th.\n\nIn his next event, Alstom Open de France, he recorded his only win of the season, defending the title he won in 2013 despite going into the final round 8 shots behind Kevin Stadler.\n\nFollowing this McDowell continued his good form at the Open Championship with a top-10 finish, and further top-10 finishes in his next two events at the RBC Canadian Open and the Bridgestone Invitational.\n\nAt the PGA Championship, McDowell made the cut finishing in a tie of 46th, subsequently competing in the FedEx Cup Playoffs, however he failed to progress to the year end Tour Championship finishing outside the top-30 in 56th place.\n\nMcDowell qualified to represent Europe at the 2014 Ryder Cup narrowly edging Stephen Gallacher for the final place based on Official World Golf Ranking points.\n\nAt the Ryder Cup, he formed a successful partnership with former opponent Victor Dubuisson with comfortable wins the afternoon foursomes on Friday and Saturday. In the lead match of the Sunday singles, McDowell recovered from being 3 down to Jordan Spieth to win 2&1. With these wins Europe won the Ryder Cup.\n\nMcDowell subsequently competed in the Race to Dubai Final Series events on the European Tour including a tie for third in the HSBC Champions. McDowell finished 14th in the Race to Dubai rankings on the European Tour in 2014.\n\nMcDowell endured one of his worst years as a professional during the 2015 season. In fifteen events on the PGA Tour, McDowell made only eight cuts, with just one top five finish, coming in his first tournament of the year.\n\nIn this tournament, the WGC-HSBC Champions, he held the 18, 36 and 54 hole leads and began Sunday with a one stroke lead. He shot a final round of 73 and missed a birdie putt on the final hole, which would have earned him a place in the playoff. He finished the 2015 season at 160th in the FedEx Cup standings and was the first time he had missed out on qualifying for the playoffs since 2010.\n\nIn November 2015, McDowell won his third PGA Tour title at the OHL Classic at Mayakoba. He prevailed in a sudden death playoff over Jason Bohn and Russell Knox during a Monday finish to the tournament. He won with a birdie on the first extra hole after his five iron approach grazed the edge of the cup and left him with three-foot birdie putt. Knox then could only up and down for par, whilst Bohn missed an 18-foot birdie putt to extend the playoff. McDowell said afterwards that the win came at the end of a real grind in what was one of his worst calendar years as a professional.\n\nIn the 2015–16 PGA Tour season, McDowell won $2,596,170 and finished 27th in the season-long FedEx Cup race.\n\nIn the 2016–17 PGA Tour season, McDowell only had 4 top 10 finishes and finished 136th in the FedEx Cup.\n\nIn the 2017–18 PGA Tour season, McDowell struggled again and only won $581,024 and finished 144th in the FedEx Cup. This left him with limited status on the PGA Tour for the 2018–19 season.\n\nEuropean Ryder Cup captain Thomas Bjørn named McDowell as a vice-captain for the European team at the 2018 Ryder Cup. In September 2018, Europe defeated the U.S. team 17½ points to 10½ at Le Golf National outside of Paris, France.\n\nOn 31 March 2019, McDowell won his fourth PGA Tour title at the Corales Puntacana Resort and Club Championship in the Dominican Republic.\n\nOn 9 June 2019, McDowell finished tied for 8th at the RBC Canadian Open and therefore qualified for the 2019 Open Championship, which was played at his home course Royal Portrush Golf Club in Northern Ireland.\n\nOn 2 February 2020, McDowell won the Saudi International with a score of 12 under par. The victory marked his first title on the European Tour since 2014 and also improved his world ranking from 104 to 47.\n\nMcDowell comes from a mixed Catholic/Protestant family background, but was himself raised a Protestant. As he won the U.S. Open in 2010 he was living in a \"bachelor pad\" penthouse apartment in Portrush and was building a home in Lake Nona, Florida, United States. McDowell hired interior designer Kristin Stape to work on his Lake Nona house: subsequently the pair began dating, and were engaged in October 2012. The couple married in a small ceremony in the Bahamas in September 2013. Kristin gave birth to the couple's first child, a girl, in August 2014. She has a child from a previous relationship.\n\nWhen quizzed on whether he'd represent Britain or Ireland at future Olympic events, McDowell stated: \"I’m not bothered who I play for. I’ll be honoured to represent Britain or Ireland or both. I’m proud to play golf for Europe.\" On the subject of his nationality, he added: \"Yes, I sit on the fence but why not? There’s no right or wrong answer. I’m always going to upset someone, so why not sit on the fence?\" In the run up to the 2016 Olympics, when golf was reintroduced, Rory McIlroy (representing Ireland) withdrew from the tournament, leaving McDowell with the possibility of representing Ireland as their next highest ranked player. However, McDowell ruled this possibility out by opting out of the Olympics. He often travels and practises with Rory McIlroy and Pádraig Harrington.\n\nHe was appointed Member of the Order of the British Empire (MBE) in the 2011 New Year Honours for services to golf.\n\nIn January 2011 McDowell was photographed by Kevin Abosch for \"The Face of Ireland\" project.\n\nMcDowell is a devoted Manchester United fan. In the buildup to the 2011 Masters Tournament he skipped the annual par-3 contest in order to watch a UEFA Champions League clash between United and Chelsea.\n\nIn June 2011, McDowell received an honorary doctorate (D.Sc) from the University of Ulster for his services to golf. He received his honorary degree from the University's Chancellor, the actor James Nesbitt on its Coleraine campus and in his speech to graduates, urged them to set their goals high in their careers and trust their intuition.\n\nMcDowell is also partner in owning a restaurant, Nona Blue, that he opened outside of his neighborhood Lake Nona Golf & Country Club. Nona Blue is considered a \"Modern Tavern.\"\n\n\nPGA Tour playoff record (2–0)\nCo-sanctioned by the Asian Tour and the Korean Tour\n\nEuropean Tour playoff record (2–1)\n\nCo-sanctioned by the European Tour and the Korean Tour\n\nAsian Tour playoff record (1–0)\nOther playoff record (1–0)\n\nCUT = missed the half-way cut<br>\n\"T\" = tied\n\n\nCUT = missed the halfway cut\n\"T\" indicates a tie for a place\n\n\"Results not in chronological order before 2015.\"\n\nCancelled due to COVID-19 pandemic<br>\nWD = Withdrew<br>\nQF, R16, R32, R64 = Round in which player lost in match play<br>\nNT = no tournament<br>\n\"T\" = tied<br>\nNote that the HSBC Champions did not become a WGC event until 2009.\n\nAmateur\n\nProfessional\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2000783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000783", "title": "Blind Pilots", "text": "Blind Pilots\n\n\"Blind Pilots\" is the second and final single to be taken from The Cooper Temple Clause's second album, \"Kick Up the Fire, and Let the Flames Break Loose\".\n\n\nDVD Audio (1), DVD Video (2-3)\n\n\n\n\n\nThe music video for \"Blind Pilots\" features Michael Fassbender in the role of a man who, engaged to his fiancée, goes out with friends for drinking and partying throughout the night, but unbeknownst to him, his girlfriend placed a talisman on a neckchain around his neck before he left. As he imbibes more alcohol with his friends, he begins turning into a satyr and his temperament leads him to become more harsh and isolated towards his friends until he leaves them for another club, where he completely turns into a satyr. He then gives into greater temptation around the female dancers at the strip club, but eventually experiences a more painful transformation as he rushes out, this time turning into a goat by the end of the video. The video is directed by Scott Lyon.\n"}
{"id": "2000787", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000787", "title": "Bujan", "text": "Bujan\n\nBujan is a village and a former municipality in the Kukës County, northern Albania. At the 2015 local government reform it became a subdivision of the municipality Tropojë. The population at the 2011 census was 2,550. It is known for hosting the 1943 Bujan Conference.\n\n"}
{"id": "2000796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000796", "title": "Status inconsistency", "text": "Status inconsistency\n\nStatus inconsistency is a situation where an individual's social positions have both positive and negative influences on his or her social status. For example, a teacher may have a positive societal image (respect, prestige) which increases their status but may earn little money, which simultaneously decreases their status.\n\nAdvocates of the concept propose that status inconsistency has consequences for social action that cannot be predicted from the so-called \"vertical\" dimensions of status alone. (In statistical terms, it is an interaction effect). Introduced by Gerhard Lenski in the 1950s, the concept has remained controversial with limited empirical verification. One unresolved question is whether people who are judged by sociologists to be status inconsistent actually \"feel\" they are somehow under-rewarded or over-rewarded. Blocker and Riedesel (1978) employed more than the usual statistical controls and found evidence of neither a correlation between \"objective\" and \"subjective\" status inconsistency, nor of effects of either on hypothesized behavior that was independent of the vertical dimensions of status.\n\nAll societies have some basis for social stratification, and industrial societies are characterized by multiple dimensions to which some vertical hierarchy may be imputed. The notion of status inconsistency is simple: it is defined as occupying different vertical positions in two or more hierarchies. The complexity and dynamism of modern societies results in both social mobility, and the presence of people and social roles in these inconsistent or mixed status positions. Sociologists investigate issues of status inconsistency in order to better understand status systems and stratification, and because some sociologists believe that positions of status inconsistency might have strong effects on peoples behavior. In this line of reasoning people may react to an inconsistent status position as problematic, and thus may change their behavior, their patterns of sociation, or otherwise act to resolve the inconsistent position. During the last fifty years social researchers have investigated and debated evidence about how, where, why, and to what extent status inconsistency affects social action.\n\nMost attention has been given to inconsistency between material status and prestige or respect, arising from education, occupation, or ethnicity. Geschwender (1967), among others, suggests that the balance of investments (e.g. education) versus rewards (e.g. income) is at the heart of any actual effects of apparent status inconsistency.\n\nMax Weber articulated three major dimensions of stratification in his discussion of class, power, and status. This multifaceted framework provides the background concepts for discussing status inconsistency. Status Inconsistency theories predict that people whose status is inconsistent, or higher on one dimension than one another, will be more frustrated and dissatisfied than people with consistent statuses. Gerhard Lenski was a major proponent of this theory. He argues that if people are ranked higher in one dimension than another, then they are going to emphasize their higher rank. Since others may focus instead on the former's lower rank, the situation may generate conflict.\n\nLenski originally predicted that people suffering from Status Inconsistency will favor political actions and parties directed against higher status groups. Lenski continues by stating that Status Inconsistency can be used to further explain the phenomenon of why status groups made up of wealthy minorities will tend to be liberal instead of the presumed conservative. In the 1950s and 1960s, American Jews provided a strong anecdotal example: Politically liberal, better educated and more affluent than average, they were still subjected to discrimination in subtle and not-so-subtle ways.\n\nWhile well-known, the concept of status inconsistency is not without its challengers and unresolved questions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2000798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000798", "title": "Virgilius Maro Grammaticus", "text": "Virgilius Maro Grammaticus\n\nVirgilius Maro Grammaticus (Virgil the Grammarian; , fl. c. 7th century) is the author of two early medieval grammatical texts known as the \"Epitomae\" and the \"Epistolae\".\n\nIt is unknown exactly when or where he was active: in the eleventh and twelfth centuries he was known to Abbo of Fleury and others as Virgil of Toulouse, and subsequent scholars have tried to attribute him to Spain, the Basque Country and Gaul. Apparent traces of Hebrew have also prompted suggestions that he may have been Jewish. Supposed knowledge of some Old Irish vocabulary and verse has led to the most recent attribution to Ireland, and there is good evidence that his writings were well known to early medieval Irish scholars. However, the Irish evidence is not watertight, and Virgil's origins remain undetermined.\n\nHowever, Virgil can be dated with some confidence to the seventh century: he knew some parts of the \"Etymologiae\" by Isidore of Seville finished around 636; and was quoted before 709/10 by Aldhelm of Malmesbury. Quotations from Virgil in certain Irish computistical texts may place him in the first half of the seventh century, specifically before 658.\n\nHis writings survive in around twenty manuscripts or fragments, dating from the eighth to the eleventh century. The three principal manuscripts (Paris, Bibliothèque nationale Latinus 13026; Amiens, Bibliothèque municipale, 426; and Naples, Biblioteca Nazionale IV.A.34) on which modern editions have been based were all written in early ninth-century France. In most manuscripts of Virgil also contain other grammatical and schoolroom texts. As a rule, the \"Epitomae\" travelled separately from the \"Epistolae\", which are much more poorly represented in the surviving manuscripts: just one manuscript contains the entire text (Naples, Biblioteca Nazionale IV.A.34), and comparison with other fragments suggests its testimony may not always be trustworthy.\n\nVirgilius wrote at least two surviving works, the \"Epitomae\" and \"Epistolae\". The number of books in both groups – 12 and 8 (though the last surviving Epitoma may have been numbered 15, implying there were once three more books now lost) – compares to the number of books in Donatus \"Ars Maior\" and \"Ars Minor\". He displays knowledge of authors such as Isidore of Seville, Virgil and Aelius Donatus, but never quotes them by name. Instead one finds in his works a plethora of obscure and unlikely-sounding authorities mentioned nowhere else and quotations attributed to well-known authors which cannot be identified in their writings. Thus there are Varro, Cato, three Vergiliuses, three Vulcans, Aeneas and Origenes, and also Sufphonias, Galbungus, Sagillus, Blastus, Gurgilius, Balapsidius – the list can be expanded. Some of these names are clear fabrications, often displaying considerable knowledge of classical and patristic literature.\n\nAlthough written in a similar style to late antique grammatical texts and incorporating some genuine grammatical material, there is much baffling and outlandish material contained in Virgilius' writings: he discusses twelve kinds of Latin, of which only one is in regular use, and attributes much of his lore to grammarians up to a thousand years old, who debate questions such as the vocative of \"ego\" and write texts such as \"De laudibus indefunctorum\" (In praise of the undead). Often these grammatical authorities form the centre of anecdotes: Aeneas is often referred to as Virgil's teacher; an elderly Spanish grammarian visits Virgil in the dead of night; and others wage war with thousands of men over grammatical definitions. The oddity of Virgilius' texts extends beyond ignorance or even parody, and it has been argued that his peculiar fabrications are a veiled plea for diversity and variety. However, a great deal remains uncertain about Virgilius, his origins and his real purpose in writing.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2000799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000799", "title": "Wee Chong Jin", "text": "Wee Chong Jin\n\nWee Chong Jin (28 September 1915 – 5 June 2005) was a Singaporean judge and the first Chief Justice of the country. Born in Penang, Malaysia, he was the first Asian lawyer to be appointed a judge at the Supreme Court of Singapore. He served in the position of Chief Justice for 27 years, making him the longest-serving chief justice in the Commonwealth.\n\nHe was born in Penang to parents Wee Gim Puay and Lim Paik Yew. He received his early education at the Penang Free School, and read law at St John's College, Cambridge. He was called to Bar at the Middle Temple in November 1938, and was admitted as an Advocate and Solicitor of Straits Settlements in 1940 upon returning to Penang.\n\nWee practised law in Malaysia and Singapore from 1940 to 1957, with the firm Wee Swee Teow and Co.\n\nWee became the first Asian lawyer to be appointed to the position of a judge at the Supreme Court of Singapore on 15 August 1957, and subsequently appointed Chief Justice of Singapore on 5 January 1963. His appointment as Chief Justice, marked the end of the century-old tradition of appointing British Chief Justices – the last of whom was Sir Alan Rose – for Singapore. Wee remained in the position for 27 years, making him the longest-serving chief justice not only in Singapore, but also in the Commonwealth.\n\nWee also served as the first chairman of the Presidential Council for Minority Rights from 1973 and remained at its helm for 18 years. Wee assumed the post of the acting President of Singapore for two days when Devan Nair stepped down as President. Wee Chong Jin had also stepped in when Singapore's heads of state were either away or indisposed. He had stood in for Yusof Ishak when he was Yang di-Pertuan Negara and also for President Benjamin Sheares. He was the first president of the Singapore Academy of Law in 1988. In August 1991, he was awarded the Distinguished Service Order. In April 1992, Wee was made an Honorary Member and Fellow of the Singapore Academy of Law for life – the highest honour made to a person by the Academy. He served as a legal consultant of the Supreme Court of Singapore after his retirement on 27 September 1990, and was diagnosed with lung cancer in 2004.\n\nWee was also known for his love for sports, as he was an outstanding cricketer for Cambridge University in 1937 and a keen golfer serving as President of the Singapore Golf Association from 1962 to 2002. \n\nWee died on 5 June 2005 of complications from lung and brain cancer, and a funeral was held at the Catholic Church of St. Ignatius at King's Road in Bukit Timah before his body was cremated at the Mandai Crematorium. Wee is survived by his wife, Cecilia Henderson, three sons, Laurence, John and Patrick, and one daughter, Veronica, and his grandchildren, Laura, Nicole, David and Michael.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2000806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000806", "title": "Boeing XPBB Sea Ranger", "text": "Boeing XPBB Sea Ranger\n\nThe Boeing XPBB-1 Sea Ranger (Boeing 344) was a prototype twin-engined flying boat patrol bomber built for the United States Navy. The order for this aircraft was canceled, to free production capacity to build the Boeing B-29, and only a single prototype was completed.\n\nWell before the United States entered World War II, the Navy started a program to develop a long-range flying boat, able to cover the vast expanse of the Pacific Ocean. The Model 344 design offered by Boeing was chosen, and a contract for 57 aircraft was awarded on 29 June 1940. The designation given to the type was PBB for Patrol Bomber, Boeing, the first aircraft of the PB category built by Boeing for the Navy. Nevertheless, Boeing did have important experience in the construction of large flying boats, having produced the successful Boeing 314 airliner. To build the large PBB, Boeing started construction of a new lakeside factory in Renton, Washington, that was owned by the US Navy. However, the prototype was constructed mostly in Seattle, and was moved to Renton only for completion.\n\nTo achieve the desired long range, the PBB became a fairly large aircraft, with a wingspan of 139 feet inches (42.59 m) and a crew of ten. Despite its size, it was powered by just two Wright R-3350 Duplex Cyclone radial engines, driving three-bladed Curtiss Electric propellers. It was the largest twin-engined flying boat flown during World War II. For a flying boat, the PBB was aerodynamically clean, with a cantilever wing set high on the fuselage. The planing bottom had a single step, and the non-retractable outrigger floats were attached to streamlined, cantilever struts. The lower hull was divided with seven watertight compartments, and a short upper deck provided seating for the cockpit crew. The wing of the PBB was constructed in a center section and two outer panels. The center section carried the engine nacelles and contained the internal bomb bays, as well as fuel and oil tanks. The outer wing panels contained main and auxiliary, integral fuel tanks.\n\nThe defensive armament of the PBB consisted of five powered turrets, equipped with Browning .50 M2 machine guns. They were installed in the nose, in the tail, on the upper fuselage just aft of the trailing edge of the wing, and in two waist positions at the rear fuselage. Except for the waist guns, the turrets had two guns each. Offensive armament could consist of up to 20,000 lb of bombs in internal bomb bays in the wing center section (five bays on each side) or of two Mk.13 or Mk.15 torpedoes slung under the wing center section.\n\nThe 1710 US gallon auxiliary outer and 1565 US gallon inner fuel tanks were intended to be used only in an overload condition, in which the PBB would use catapult-assisted takeoff to achieve a theoretical range of 11000 miles (17700 km). The normal range using the main fuel tanks was 4245 miles (6830 km). In March 1941 the Navy's Bureau of Aeronautics asked the Naval Aircraft Factory for a catapult able to launch a PBB-1. The NAF duly prepared a design for a Mark VII catapult that would be able to launch a fifty-ton PBB-1 at a speed of 130 miles per hour. The catapult would be installed so that the flying boat could be lifted onto it with a large crane or hydraulic jacks. However, in the summer of 1942, while development of the Mk.VII catapult was still ongoing, the Navy cancelled the project because it considered JATO assistance at takeoff more practical.\n\nThe prototype, designated XPBB-1, made its first flight on 9 July 1942 from Lake Washington. The aircraft handled very well and was considered technically successful. However, already in 1942 the PBB program had been cancelled: The need for a long-range flying boat had been reduced by the ability of land planes such as the Consolidated PB4Y to fly long-range missions over the ocean, and construction of a small number of PBB-1s would have a negative impact on the production rate of the B-29. The Navy allowed the Army to use the Renton factory for the production of B-29 bombers, in return for the use of another factory in Kansas.\n\nThe single XPBB-1 was handed over to the US Navy, and was used in trials programs until 1947, when it was finally retired. Despite suggestions that more aircraft might be built, perhaps by another factory, it remained the single example of the type, and was accordingly nicknamed \"Lone Ranger\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2000816", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000816", "title": "Pasterka", "text": "Pasterka\n\nPasterka is a Midnight mass celebrated by Roman Catholics during Christmas between 24 and 25 December across Poland. A close translation of the name would be the \"Shepherds' Mass\" (literally: 'that which belongs to the shepherds' in Polish), in reference to the Biblical shepherds, who were visited by an angel and told of the birth of Christ. During the \"Pasterka\" Mass, Polish people sing traditional \"kolędy\", Christmas carols from the Roman \"calendae\") in the spirit of joy.\n\nAlthough \"Pasterka\" mass is closely associated with the specific time in Christian liturgy, it is not the actual hour of the night that predicates its meaning. According to Polish ordinance of the Eucharist, the \"Pasterka\" is defined only by the type of prayer and biblical texts used during Christmas celebrations. It can be held more than once on December 24, in more than one location by the parish priest; at the church and at a nearby chapel. Often, there are two (or even three) \"Pasterkas\" celebrated next to each other – earlier ones for the families with children, then at 9 and 10 p.m. for the youth, and a final one at 12:00 midnight, for the adults.\nThe participation in the Birth of Christ celebrations is obligatory for all practicing Catholics. They have the option of attending any one of the evening masses or even more than one. Priests may refer to all of them as \"Pasterka\", even though formally they are called \"Wigilia\" masses by the episcopate as opposed to the grand mass at midnight. The exact hour of the birth of Christ is not written in the canonical gospels, which allows for choosing the ideal time for ritual prayer on that occasion. On Christmas Eve (December 24) and on Christmas Day, the masses can be celebrated from three different liturgical texts, each suited to a specific sacrament of the Eucharist. In the early hours, the worshippers can attend the Advent \"waiting\" mass, which does not excuse them from participating in the \"Nativity\" mass for the Birth of Christ later on.\n\nThere are no masses in the late afternoon on December 24, which is the time for Wigilia, the traditional supper at family homes. The first evening mass of the Christmas Eve (after the Wigilia) is celebrated around 4 p.m. or later before 8 p.m. followed by the 10 p.m. mass and the one-hour-long grand Midnight Mass, which begins at 12. Music for the Midnight Mass begins as soon as the doors open at 11:00 p.m. The Blessing of the Crib can take place before, or after the homilies, when the priests open the \"Szopka\" nativity scenes set up by the main altar. Traditionally, the service concludes with an Apostolic Blessing. The next day masses are interchangeable according to scripture, allowing for flexibility in choosing the religious services by individual parishioners. The Christmas Day begins with the early morning mass followed by daytime masses.\n\nPasterka is a Catholic mass specific to the Birth of Christ celebrations in Poland. Participation in Pasterka is synonymous with Christmas. Many practicing Catholics visit the Church twice on that occasion and are encouraged by the priest to do so. \n\n"}
{"id": "2000818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000818", "title": "Promises, Promises (The Cooper Temple Clause song)", "text": "Promises, Promises (The Cooper Temple Clause song)\n\n\"Promises, Promises\" is the first single to be taken from The Cooper Temple Clause's second album, \"Kick Up the Fire, and Let the Flames Break Loose\". It reached number nineteen on the UK Singles Chart and has been featured on the 2004 video games, \"WRC 4\" and \"FIFA Football 2004\". The song's main riff is based on the guitar line of Sonic Youth's \"Drunken Butterfly\" from their 1992 album \"Dirty\".\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2000829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000829", "title": "Sinus Amoris", "text": "Sinus Amoris\n\nSinus Amoris (Latin \"sinus amōris\" \"Bay of Love\") extends northward from the northeast end of the Mare Tranquillitatis. It is located at selenographic coordinates 19.9° N, 37.3° E, and lies within a diameter of 190 km. To the north of the bay are the jumbled Montes Taurus peaks.\n\nNear the southern end of the bay where it outlets into the Mare Tranquillitatis lies the crater Theophrastus. Along the western side is the flooded crater Maraldi and Mons Maraldi. Bordering the east side of the bay are the craters Carmichael and Hill. There are some low ridges in the central part of the bay, but otherwise it is relatively featureless.\n\nAt the southern egress where the bay joins the mare lies Mons Esam, a minor rise that lies among several small lunar domes.\n\n"}
{"id": "2000834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000834", "title": "The World Is Flat", "text": "The World Is Flat\n\nThe World Is Flat: A Brief History of the Twenty-first Century is an international best-selling book by Thomas L. Friedman that analyzes globalization, primarily in the early 21st century. The title is a metaphor for viewing the world as a level playing field in terms of commerce, wherein all competitors have an equal opportunity. As the first edition cover illustration indicates, the title also alludes to the perceptual shift required for countries, companies, and individuals to remain competitive in a global market in which historical and geographic divisions are becoming increasingly irrelevant.\n\nFriedman is a strong advocate of those changes, calling himself a \"free-trader\" and a \"compassionate flatist\", and he criticizes societies that resist the changes. He emphasizes the inevitability of a rapid pace of change and the extent to which the emerging abilities of individuals and developing countries are creating many pressures on businesses and individuals in the United States; he has special advice for Americans and for the developing world (but says almost nothing about Europe). Friedman's is a popular work based on much personal research, travel, conversation, and reflection. In his characteristic style, through personal anecdotes and opinions, he combines in \"The World Is Flat\" a conceptual analysis accessible to a broad public. The book was first released in 2005, was later released as an \"updated and expanded\" edition in 2006, and was yet again released with additional updates in 2007 as \"further updated and expanded: Release 3.0\". The title was derived from a statement by Nandan Nilekani, former CEO of Infosys. \"The World Is Flat\" won the inaugural Financial Times and Goldman Sachs Business Book of the Year Award in 2005.\n\nIn his book \"The World Is Flat\", Friedman recounts a journey to Bangalore, India, when he realized globalization has changed core economic concepts. In his opinion, that flattening is a product of the convergence of the personal computer with fiber optic microcable with the rise of work flow software. Friedman termed the period Globalization 3.0, thereby differentiating it from the previous, Globalization 1.0, during which countries and governments were the main protagonists, and Globalization 2.0, during which multinational companies led the way in driving global integration.\n\nFriedman recounts many examples of companies based in India and China that, by providing labor ranging from that of typists and call center operators to accountants and computer programmers, have become integral parts of complex global supply chains; such companies are Dell, AOL, and Microsoft. Friedman's capitalist peace theory called Dell Theory of Conflict Prevention is discussed in the book's penultimate chapter.\n\nFriedman repeatedly uses lists as organizational devices to communicate key concepts, usually numbered and often with provocative labels. Two example lists are the ten forces that flattened the world, and three points of convergence.\n\nFriedman defines ten \"flatteners\" that he sees as levelling the global playing field:\n\nFriedman believes that to fight the quiet crisis of a flattening world, the US workforce should keep updating its work skills. Making the workforce more adaptable, Friedman argues, will keep it more employable. He also suggests that the government make it easier for people to switch jobs by making retirement benefits and health insurance less dependent on one's employer and by providing insurance that would partly cover a possible drop in income when changing jobs. Friedman also believes there should be more inspiration for youth to become scientists, engineers, and mathematicians because of a decrease in the percentage of those professionals who are American.\n\nThe Dell Theory of Conflict Prevention, also known as simply the Dell Theory, is a capitalist peace theory and an updated version of Friedman's previous \"Golden Arches Theory of Conflict Prevention\". According to Friedman:\n\nThat is, as long as corporations have major supply chain operations in countries other than that corporation's home country, those countries will never engage in armed conflicts. This is because of the economic interdependence between nations that arises when a large corporation (such as Dell) has supply chain operations in multiple global locations and when developing nations (in which supply chain operations commonly take place) are reluctant to give up their newfound wealth.\n\nIn his previous book \"The Lexus and the Olive Tree\", Friedman argued that no two nations with a McDonald's franchise had ever gone to war with one another; this was known as the Golden Arches theory. Later, Friedman upgraded that theory into the \"Dell Theory of Conflict Prevention\" by saying that people or nations do not just want to have a better standard of living as symbolized by a McDonald's franchise in their downtown but also want to have that lump of the labor sector that is created by globalization. That is, developing nations do not want to risk the trust of the multinational companies that venture into their markets and include them in the global supply chain.\n\nThomas Friedman also warns that the Dell theory should not be interpreted as a guarantee that nations that are deeply involved in global supply chains will not go to war with each other. It means, rather, that the governments of those nations and their citizens will have very heavy economic costs to consider as they contemplate the possibility of war. Such costs include long-term loss of the country's profitable participation in the global supply chain.\n\nThis theory relates with how conflict prevention occurred between India and Pakistan in their 2001–2002 nuclear standoff, wherein India was at risk of losing its global partners. The relationship between the People's Republic of China and Taiwan was also cited as an example of that theory: both countries have strong supply relations with each other, and a war between the two seems very unlikely today.\n\n\"The World Is Flat\" received generally positive popular and critical reception as well as some negative criticism, peppered with doubt.\n\n\"The Washington Post\" called the book an \"engrossing tour\" and an \"enthralling read\". The review closed with, \"We've no real idea how the 21st century's history will unfold, but this terrifically stimulating book will certainly inspire readers to start thinking it all through\".\n\nAn opposing viewpoint was found in a 2007 \"Foreign Policy\" magazine article in which Professor Pankaj Ghemawat argued that 90% of the world's phone calls, Web traffic, and investments are local, suggesting that Friedman has grossly exaggerated the significance of the trends he describes: \"Despite talk of a new, wired world where information, ideas, money, and people can move around the planet faster than ever before, just a fraction of what we consider globalization actually exists.\" Indian development journalist P. Sainath, Rural Affairs Editor for The Hindu, says \"it's not the 'world' that is flat, but Thomas Friedman's 'brain' is flat\".\n\nSome critics have pointed out that the book is written from an American perspective. Friedman's work history has been mostly with \"The New York Times\", and that may have influenced the way the book was written – some would have preferred a book written in a more \"inclusive voice\".\n\nNobel Prize-winning economist Joseph Stiglitz has been critical of Friedman's book:\n\nRichard Florida expresses similar views in his 2005 \"Atlantic\" article \"The World Is Spiky\".\n\nJohn Gray, formerly a School Professor of European Thought at the London School of Economics and Political Science, wrote another critical review of Friedman's book called \"The World Is Round\". In it, Gray confirms Friedman's assertion that globalization is making the world more interconnected and, in some parts, richer but disputes the notion that globalization makes the world more peaceful or freer. Gray also declares, \"least of all does it make it flat\".\n\nGeographers on the whole have been particularly critical of Friedman's writings, views influenced by the large body of work within their field demonstrating the uneven nature of globalization, the strong influence place still has on people's lives, and the dependent relationships that have been established between the have and have-not regions in the current world-system. Geographer Harm de Blij detailed those arguments for the general public in \"Why Geography Matters: Three Challenges Facing America\" (2005) and \"The Power of Place: Geography, Destiny, and Globalization's Rough Landscape\" (2008).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2000836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000836", "title": "Minnesota State Highway 47", "text": "Minnesota State Highway 47\n\nMinnesota State Highway 47 (MN 47) is a highway in east–central Minnesota, which runs from its intersection with \"Central Avenue\" (State Highway 65) in Minneapolis and continues north to its northern terminus at its intersection with U.S. Highway 169 in Aitkin.\n\nFor part of its route (8 miles), it runs together with U.S. Highway 10 in Coon Rapids and Anoka. The two routes are concurrent from \"Foley Boulevard\" in Coon Rapids to \"Ferry Street\" (US 169) in Anoka.\n\nHighway 47 also runs together with State Highway 18 for 9 miles in Mille Lacs and Aitkin counties around the northeast side of Mille Lacs Lake.\n\nState Highway 47 serves as a north–south route between Minneapolis, Fridley, Coon Rapids, Anoka, Ramsey, St. Francis, Ogilvie, Isle, and Aitkin in east–central Minnesota.\n\nState Highway 47 begins at the intersection of \"Central Avenue\" (State Highway 65) and \"University Avenue\" in northeast Minneapolis. Highway 47 is signed locally as \"University Avenue\" in northeast Minneapolis. The route remains \"University Avenue NE\" through Columbia Heights and Fridley to its junction with Highways 10 and 610 at the Coon Rapids / Blaine boundary line.\n\nThe route is built as a divided highway north of its junction with \"32nd Avenue NE\" / \"St. Anthony Parkway\" in Minneapolis. Highway 47 continues as a divided highway on its independent segment through Columbia Heights and Fridley. The route has an interchange with Interstate 694 in Fridley and another interchange with Highways 10 and 610 at the Coon Rapids / Blaine boundary line. Highway 47 joins the Highway 10 freeway at this point. Highways 10 and 47 run concurrent for 8 miles through Coon Rapids and Anoka.\n\nHighway 47 leaves Highway 10 at its junction with \"Ferry Street\" in the city of Anoka. Highway 47 continues independently again northbound through the cities of Anoka and Ramsey as \"St. Francis Boulevard\". The route continues north through the Anoka County communities of Nowthen and St. Francis.\n\nThe route enters Isanti County and passes through Bradford, Pine Brook, and Dalbo. Highway 47 has a junction with State Highway 95 at Pine Brook. Highway 47 enters Kanabec County and continues north to Ogilvie, where it has a junction with State Highway 23.\n\nHighway 47 enters Mille Lacs County and joins State Highway 27 briefly to Isle at the southeast corner of Mille Lacs Lake. Father Hennepin State Park is located one mile west of the junction of Highway 47 and Highway 27 at Isle. The park entrance is located on Highway 27.\n\nThe route continues northbound around the east side of Mille Lacs Lake. Highway 47 has a junction with State Highway 18 in northeast Mille Lacs County. The route runs together with Highway 18 for 9 miles around the northeast side of the lake; continuing north to Malmo at the northeast corner of the lake.\n\nHighway 47 continues independently for 21 miles between Malmo and the city of Aitkin. The route is also known as \"4th Street SE\" in Aitkin. The northern terminus of Highway 47 is at its intersection with U.S. Highway 169 (\"Minnesota Avenue\") in the city of Aitkin.\nAt the southern terminus of Highway 47 in northeast Minneapolis, \"\"University Avenue\"\" further extends itself into Saint Paul (as \"Ramsey County Road 34\"), ending at \"Lafayette Road\". This section of \"\"University Avenue\"\" passes by landmarks such as the University of Minnesota and the Minnesota State Capitol.\n\nState Highway 47 was established in 1963.\n\nHighway 47 was originally an extension of \"State Highway 56\"; which ran from southern Minnesota to Hampton; and then was concurrent with U.S. Highway 52 into downtown Saint Paul; then along \"University Avenue\" in both Saint Paul and Minneapolis. In 1963, \"State Highway 56\" was terminated in downtown St. Paul and the section from Minneapolis north to Aitkin was renumbered \"State Highway 47\".\n\nHighway 47 was paved at the time it was created. Its predecessor was unpaved north of Anoka in 1940. By 1953, only the northerly section near Aitkin was still unpaved. It was completely paved by 1960.\n\nThe section of Highway 47 in Columbia Heights and Fridley was built as a divided highway by 1970.\n"}
{"id": "2000837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000837", "title": "Sinus Asperitatis", "text": "Sinus Asperitatis\n\nSinus Asperitatis (Latin \"sinus asperitātis\" \"Bay of Roughness\") is an area of lunar mare that extends southward from the Mare Tranquillitatis until it joins the Mare Nectaris to the southeast. It is bordered along the western and eastern sides by continental regions of irregular terrain. The selenographic coordinates of this feature are 3.8° S, 27.4° E, and it has a diameter of 206 km.\n\nIn the northern part of this mare is the small crater Torricelli. At the southern end is the prominent crater pair of Theophilus and Cyrillus. On the border between Sinus Asperitatis and the Mare Nectaris is the crater Mädler.\n"}
{"id": "2000839", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000839", "title": "The Immortals (series)", "text": "The Immortals (series)\n\nThe Immortals quartet, by Tamora Pierce, is the story of Veralidaine Sarrasri (known as Daine), an orphan with an unusual talent: she can speak with animals.\n\n\nThe orphan Daine applies for a job that takes her and her trusty pony Cloud from her birthcountry of Galla to the kingdom of Tortall. Here she finds a new life and a new family, and learns that she has the magical ability known as \"Wild Magic\", which enables her to speak to animals, heal them, and take their shape as well as bend them to her will. She makes friends with a lineup of characters and creatures, including the black-robe mage Numair Salmalin, a young dragon named Skysong (nicknamed Kitten), the legendary Lioness, Alanna of Trebond, King Jonathan, and Queen Thayet of Tortall.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2000840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000840", "title": "List of joint winners of the Hugo and Nebula awards", "text": "List of joint winners of the Hugo and Nebula awards\n\nThis is a list of the works that have won both the Hugo Award and the Nebula Award (or the Ray Bradbury Award, given in place of the Nebula Award for Best Script since 2009), given annually to works of science fiction or fantasy literature. The Hugo Awards are voted on by science-fiction fans at the World Science Fiction Convention (Worldcon); the Nebula Awards—given by the Science Fiction and Fantasy Writers of America (SFWA)—began in 1966, making that the first year joint winners were possible.\n\nThe categories are defined by number of words, as follows:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2000850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000850", "title": "Dausprungas", "text": "Dausprungas\n\nDausprungas (also \"Dovsprunk\" in Russian sources, died before 1238) was the older brother of Mindaugas, the first King of Lithuania. Dausprungas is mentioned in the peace treaty with Galicia–Volhynia in 1219 among the 21 early dukes of Lithuania as one of the five elder dukes, the other four being Živinbudas, Daujotas, Mindaugas and Viligaila (Daujotas' brother). Since Dausprungas is the only known brother of Mindaugas, Mindaugas' nephews Edivydas and Tautvilas are presumed to be his sons. If that is true, then Dausprungas is father-in-law of Daniel of Halych and he was also married to Vykintas' sister. Because it is known that Mindaugas used to kill his relatives to gain power and because Dausprungas is not mentioned in any other sources, some imply that he was killed by Mindaugas, but others rebut since his sons still ruled their lands in 1248.\n\n"}
{"id": "2000853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000853", "title": "James Mawdsley", "text": "James Mawdsley\n\nJames Rupert Russell Mawdsley is a traditionalist Catholic priest of the Priestly Fraternity of Saint Peter (FSSP). Prior to seminary, he was a prisoner of conscience in Burma. He is a dual citizen of the United Kingdom and Australia.\n\nMawdsley was born in 1973. His parents are David and Diana, and he has three siblings. He gave up his study at Bristol University, and while backpacking met Burmese refugees who engaged his interest in the plight of ethnic minorities in Burma.\n\nAlthough subsequently a declaration of nullity was issued, he married his wife, Elizabeth, in January 2005. They honeymooned in Rome, where their union was blessed by Pope John Paul II.\n\nMawdsley took up teaching English at a Burmese refugee camp, and became further involved when government forces burnt down the school. He was arrested three times for his involvement, and deported three times. The second arrest was in May 1998, for handing out stickers and playing songs for the pro democracy movement. On arrest, he was tortured for fifteen hours, and sentenced to five years imprisonment, which was suspended after 98 days.\n\nHe was rearrested a third time in September 1999, for illegal entry and sedition, and was sentenced to seventeen years in jail. His imprisonment was held to be arbitrary by the U.N. Working Group on Arbitrary Detention in 2000. This time, he spent 415 days in solitary confinement, before his release in October 2000, after pressure was exerted by the United Kingdom Foreign Office on the authorities in Myanmar.\n\nMawdsley's memoir of his experiences in Burma, \"The Heart Must Break: The Fight for Democracy and Truth in Burma\", was published in 2001; in the United States, the book was titled \"The Iron Road: A Stand for Truth and Democracy in Burma\".\n\nIn February 2003, Mawdsley co authored \"New Ground\", a pamphlet advocating foreign policy based around freedom, dignity and the rule of law. This document has helped give rise to the Conservative Party Human Rights Commission, founded in October 2005. At the 2004 European Parliament Election, Mawdsley was a candidate on the Conservative Party list for the North West England. However, he was placed ninth on the list, so was not one of the three Conservatives who won a seat.\n\nIn February 2005, he was selected as the prospective parliamentary candidate for the constituency of Hyndburn, due to the previous candidate deciding not to stand, overseeing unsuccessful campaigns in 1997 and 2001. In the 2005 General Election, which took place in May 2005, he lost to sitting MP Greg Pope by 5,587 votes. Ken Hargreaves supported his bid into becoming the next MP for Hyndburn. His wife suffered an ectopic pregnancy on the eve of the General Election.\n\nMawdsley is now a Catholic priest of the FSSP, having studied to become a priest at the FSSP seminary at Wigratzbad in Germany. He was ordained to the priesthood on 2 July 2016, and was assistant priest at St Mary's Church, Warrington in Cheshire, England through October 2017. From November 2017 through August 2018, Mawdsley was assigned to the FSSP apostolate in Reading, Berkshire, where he served the Latin Mass centres of Bedford and Chesham Bois.\n\nSince September 2018, Mawdsley has been assigned to the FSSP apostolate in Vienna, Austria.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2000857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000857", "title": "FABRAP", "text": "FABRAP\n\nFABRAP, or Finch, Alexander, Barnes, Rothschild and Paschal, was an architectural firm founded in Atlanta, Georgia in 1958. They specialized in sports stadiums, and developed the headquarters for several major Atlanta businesses.\n\nIn 1948 James H. \"Bill\" Finch and Miller Barnes, two Georgia Institute of Technology graduates, joined to form architectural firm Finch and Barnes. Caraker Paschal, also a Georgia Tech graduate, became a partner in 1957 to form Finch Barnes and Paschal. In 1958 Cecil Alexander and Bernard Rothschild joined the firm to create FABRAP. FABRAP embraced the International style popular at the time.\n\nFABRAP partnered with Heery and Heery, another major Atlanta architecture firm, in 1965 to develop the Atlanta–Fulton County Stadium. Following the quick completion of this stadium, the partnership gained a large business in developing sports facilities, including the $45 million Riverfront Stadium in Cincinnati, Ohio in 1970. FABRAP was hired and partnered with other firms to develop the headquarters for First National Bank in 1966, Coca-Cola in 1979, and Southern Bell in 1982.\n\nIn 1984 FABRAP merged with Atlanta engineering firm Rosser White Hobbs Davidson McClellan Kelly to form Rosser Fabrap International. In 1993 the firm was renamed Rosser International.\n\n"}
{"id": "2000858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000858", "title": "List of longest-running United States television series", "text": "List of longest-running United States television series\n\nThis is a list of the longest-running United States television series, ordered by number of years the show has been aired. This list includes only first-run series originating in North America and available throughout the United States via national broadcast networks, U.S. cable networks, or syndication. Series continuations (with name changes and/or changes in network) are noted. Series broadcast within the U.S. but produced in other countries, such as \"Coronation Street\" (50+ years) and \"Doctor Who\" are not included (\"see\": List of longest-running UK television series).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2000863", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000863", "title": "Sinus Concordiae", "text": "Sinus Concordiae\n\n\"Sinus Concordiae\"' (Latin \"sinus concordiae\" \"Bay of Harmony\") is a bay (\"sinus\") on the Moon that lies along the eastern edge of the Mare Tranquillitatis. Along its northern border is an area called the Palus Somni, while the southern border is an area of irregular terrain that contains the ruined crater Da Vinci. The selenographic coordinates of this bay are 10.8° N, 43.2° E, and it has an overall diameter of 142 km.\n"}
{"id": "2000867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000867", "title": "AWA World Women's Championship", "text": "AWA World Women's Championship\n\nThe AWA World Women's Championship was the women's professional wrestling title in the American Wrestling Association from 1961 until 1990.\n\n"}
{"id": "2000879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000879", "title": "Bob Ferguson (golfer)", "text": "Bob Ferguson (golfer)\n\nRobert Ferguson ( – 19 May 1915), was a Scottish professional golfer who was one of the top players from the mid-1860s into the 1880s. He won a hat-trick of consecutive titles at The Open Championship in 1880, 1881 and 1882.\n\nIn addition to the three Open Championship wins, he posted top-10 finishes seven times.\n\nFerguson was born in Musselburgh, East Lothian, Scotland, circa 1846.\n\nIn addition to his three Open Championship titles, Ferguson was especially noted for his putting, not only on the green but off. He specialized in \"run up\" shots with his putter—the so-called \"Musselburgh iron\"—from well off the green. He is one of only four men who have won The Open three years in a row. The prize for his first win was £7.\n\nFerguson's home town of Musselburgh was one of the three venues in the Open Championship rotation. He started caddying there at the age of eight, and played his first competition at Leith when he was 18. He was a tall man, and was known as a long driver. He sometimes partnered with fellow Musselburgh top player Willie Park Sr., a four-time Open champion, in stakes matches, facing opponents such as the father-and-son team of Old Tom Morris and Young Tom Morris, of St. Andrews, between the mid-1860s and mid-1870s. Both of the Morrises were four-time Open champions. He also faced Young Tom Morris in singles play during this era. His playing career was cut short by a bout of typhoid, and he became the custodian of the Links at Musselburgh.\n\nFerguson died in Musselburgh on 19 May 1915. He is best remembered for winning the Open Championship three consecutive times.\n\nNT = No tournament<br>\nDNP = Did not play<br>\n\"T\" indicates a tie for a place<br>\nGreen background for wins. Yellow background for top-10\n"}
{"id": "2000882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000882", "title": "Nolidae", "text": "Nolidae\n\nNolidae is a family of moths with about 1,400 described species worldwide. They are mostly small with dull coloration, the main distinguishing feature being a silk cocoon with a vertical exit slit. The group is sometimes known as tuft moths, after the tufts of raised scales on the forewings of two subfamilies, Nolinae and Collomeninae. The larvae also tend to have muted colors and tufts of short hairs.\n\nFormerly, this group was included in the Noctuidae.\n\n\n\nThe following genera have yet to be assigned to a subfamily:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2000887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000887", "title": "Ace of Base discography", "text": "Ace of Base discography\n\nThis is the discography of Swedish pop group Ace of Base. The group is the third best-selling group from Sweden after ABBA and Roxette with an estimated of over 30 million albums and 15 million singles sold worldwide. This is a list with all of their albums and singles released, along with highest chart positions reached in major territories. Extended chart information, artwork and track listings can be found on individual pages. To date, they have released five studio albums and twenty-eight singles.\n\n\nThis is a list of official music videos for Ace of Base singles and when they were released.\n"}
{"id": "2000890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000890", "title": "Sabina Park", "text": "Sabina Park\n\nSabina Park is a cricket ground and the home of the Kingston Cricket Club, and is the only Test cricket ground in Kingston, Jamaica.\n\nSabina Park was originally a Pen (urban residence and adjoining land of a wealthy merchant, shopkeeper or professional), part of which was eventually sold to the Kingston Cricket Club for their grounds. The entire Estate was 30 acres. The Great House at Sabina Park Pen was named Rosemount.\n\nHigman and Hudson tell us that the name is a \"transfer name\" ie a name copied from somewhere else, in this case \"the region around Rome\" of Magliano Sabina.\n\nShalman Scott, writing in the Jamaica Observer, claims that:\nKnown ownership of Sabina Park Pen includes:\nFrom 1880, Sabina Park was rented by Kingston Cricket Club from Mrs. Blakely, the then owner, for an annual fee of £27. This arrangement continued until 27 November 1890 when it was purchased for £750.\n\nSabina Park became a Test cricket ground in 1930 when it hosted the visiting MCC team for the fourth and final Test in the West Indies' first home series. \n\nThe picturesque ground is perhaps one of the most significant in Test cricket history recording the first triple century in the game with England's Andy Sandham's 325 versus the West Indies in the 1930 game. The 365 not out by Sir Garfield Sobers which stood as a Test record for over 36 years is also regaled, as is Lawrence Rowe's world record on debut 214 and 100 not out against the visiting New Zealand in 1972.\n\nSabina Park was the venue for the abandoned test in 1998 involving the touring England team. The test was abandoned after less than an hour's play due to the pitch being deemed unfit for play.\n\nPrior to Independence Park opening in 1962, it would also host the Jamaica national football team.\n\nThe members pavilion lies square of the wicket on the west side.\n\nThe Blue Mountains form a backdrop to the north, facing the George Headley Stand, with Kingston Harbour to the south. This view is currently blocked by the Northern Stand, built as part of the ground's redevelopment for the 2007 Cricket World Cup. \n\nThe George Headley stand which dominates the south end is currently the only stand in the ground named after anyone, and has a capacity of just over 6,000. The Eastern Stands has given way to a \"Party Stand\" replacing the popular \"Mound\" stand. The general capacity of Jamaicans for excess is aptly demonstrated in the construction of the huge five-level concrete stand which hosts the outside broadcast facilities, players facilities as well as a fleet of upscale private boxes. \n\nIn terms of size, Sabina Park is still relatively small. It can fit a 400-metre running track comfortably on its perimeter, but little else, and with its refurbishing, the capacity has increased to 20,000. \n\nWith the commissioning of floodlights in August 2014, Sabina Park became the last of the international grounds in the Caribbean to have this facility. The ground is now capable of hosting day/night matches and this is especially useful for the Caribbean Premier League where the Jamaica Tallawahs play their home games.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2000892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000892", "title": "Sinus Honoris", "text": "Sinus Honoris\n\nSinus Honoris (Latin \"sinus honōris\" \"Bay of Honour\") is located along the western edge of the Mare Tranquillitatis located on the surface of the near side of the moon. The selenographic coordinates of this feature are 11.7° N, 17.9° E. It has a diameter of 112 km.\n\nSinus Honoris has a wide mouth and is bordered by uneven terrain to the north and southwest. Where the bay joins the mare, rille systems extend to the north and south. The northern system is designated Rimae Maclear, after the crater Maclear just to the east of the bay. At the southern end of the bay entrance is the Rimae Sosigenes, named for the crater Sosigenes to the south. At the west end of the bay is a finger of mare surface that extends to the northwest for almost 100 km.\n\n"}
{"id": "2000893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000893", "title": "Zell, Zürich", "text": "Zell, Zürich\n\nZell is a municipality in the district of Winterthur in the canton of Zürich in Switzerland.\n\nZell has an area of . Of this area, 43.1% is used for agricultural purposes, while 42.1% is forested. Of the rest of the land, 12.5% is settled (buildings or roads) and the remainder (2.3%) is non-productive (rivers, glaciers or mountains). housing and buildings made up 9.1% of the total area, while transportation infrastructure made up the rest (3.8%). Of the total unproductive area, water (streams and lakes) made up 1.7% of the area. , 12.2% of the total municipal area was undergoing some type of construction.\n\nZell is situated in the upper Töss Valley. In Zell-Rikon is a Tibetan monastery, the Tibet Institute Rikon. The municipality also includes the hamlet of Kollbrunn.\n\nZell has a population (as of ) of . , 17.6% of the population was made up of foreign nationals. the gender distribution of the population was 50.3% male and 49.7% female. Over the last 10 years the population has grown at a rate of 14.5%. Most of the population () speaks German (87.6%), with Italian being second most common ( 2.8%) and Albanian being third ( 1.8%).\n\nIn the 2007 election the most popular party was the SVP which received 40.5% of the vote. The next three most popular parties were the SPS (17%), the CSP (14.1%) and the Green Party (8.3%).\n\nThe age distribution of the population () is children and teenagers (0–19 years old) make up 23.4% of the population, while adults (20–64 years old) make up 59.2% and seniors (over 64 years old) make up 17.3%. In Zell about 70% of the population (between age 25-64) have completed either non-mandatory upper secondary education or additional higher education (either university or a \"Fachhochschule\"). There are 1874 households in Zell.\n\nZell has an unemployment rate of 3.02%. , there were 134 people employed in the primary economic sector and about 35 businesses involved in this sector. 397 people are employed in the secondary sector and there are 47 businesses in this sector. 680 people are employed in the tertiary sector, with 141 businesses in this sector. 52.3% of the working population were employed full-time, and 47.7% were employed part-time.\n\nZell lies on the Tösstalbahn railway that links Winterthur and Rapperswil, and the stations of Rämismühle-Zell, Rikon and Kollbrunn are all within the municipality. All three stations are served by line S26 of the Zürich S-Bahn.\n"}
{"id": "2000897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000897", "title": "Toploader", "text": "Toploader\n\nToploader are an English Post-Britpop/alternative rock band, hailing from Eastbourne, East Sussex, who formed in 1997, with over two million album sales and a string of top 20 hits both home and abroad. Their debut album, \"Onka's Big Moka\", sold over one million units and peaked in the Top 5 of the UK Albums Chart. They earned four nominations at the 2001 Brit Awards. They are recognised most of all for their cover of King Harvest's US hit \"Dancing in the Moonlight\" written by Sherman Kelly, which became a global hit for the band. Their second album, \"Magic Hotel\", reached number 3 in the UK Albums Chart. The band reformed in 2009 and they continue to tour at various gigs and make albums.\n\nToploader's live career began playing with Coldplay and Muse in small venues across the UK. They later went on to support Paul Weller, Robbie Williams and Bon Jovi, becoming the last British band to play in the original Wembley Stadium.\n\nBy 1998, Toploader were picked up by S2 Records for a six-album deal. The band had a huge hit with their first album, \"Onka's Big Moka\", which was released in 1999. It was produced by Dave Eringa, a long time collaborator of the Manic Street Preachers. It debuted at number four in the UK Albums Chart. \"Dancing in the Moonlight\" was the top single off the album, eventually reaching number seven in the UK Singles Chart, while \"Achilles Heel\" managed to get to number eight. On 24 June 2000, Toploader attended the Glastonbury Festival, as part of the Sataurday line-up. \n\nIn 2002 they released a second album, \"Magic Hotel\". The album was poorly received by critics and failed to match the success of the first. They struggled with a backlash from the UK music press and their single, \"Time of My Life\", could only make it into the Top 20. They would soon be dropped by S2. \n\nAfter a six year split hiatus, Toploader reformed and signed a one-album deal with Underdogs Music for their third album, which was released in June 2011. The album's title was \"Only Human\", and the first single from it, \"Never Stop Wondering\", was released on 14 March 2011. Another single, \"A Balance to All Things\" (featuring a remix from Ash Howes), followed on 20 June 2011.\n\nThe present band line-up contains four of the five original members: Joseph Washbourn, Dan Hipgrave, Rob Green and Matt Knight.\n\nOn 28 April 2012, they performed at the University of Gloucestershire Student Union Summerball. They also performed at Aberystwyth University's May Ball on 11 May 2012. In May 2012, they played at Lakefest festival. They also played at the Tiree Music Festival in July 2012. During 2012 the band agreed to act as patrons for a UK-based children's charity called 'Time Is Precious'.\nIn November 2012 they performed a gig in Frome, Somerset with all proceeds going to the charity, which helps ill children and their families.\n\nIn 2013, Toploader released a new single \"Turn It Around\", co-written with Eg White and produced by Andrew Green. The song is included on a four-song EP. In the summer of 2013 they headlined the LeeStock Music Festival in Suffolk and the AmpRocks Festival in Bedfordshire.\n\nOn 12 May 2017, Toploader's fourth album, \"Seeing Stars\" was released. Under a different music label, Big Lake, a sublabel of India Media Group. Roll with the Punches\" was picked as the lead single.\n\nCurrent members\n\nFormer members\n\n| rowspan=\"5\" | 2001 || rowspan=\"2\" | \"Dancing in the Moonlight\" || British Single of the Year || \n"}
{"id": "2000903", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000903", "title": "Battle of Christmas Island", "text": "Battle of Christmas Island\n\nThe Battle of Christmas Island was a small engagement which began on 31 March 1942, during World War II. Because of a mutiny by soldiers of the British Indian Army against their British officers, Imperial Japanese Army troops were able to occupy Christmas Island without any land-based resistance. The United States Navy submarine caused severe damage to the Imperial Japanese Navy cruiser during the landings.\n\nAt the time, Christmas Island was a British possession under administrative control of the Straits Settlement, situated south of Java. It was important for two reasons: it was a perfect control post for the east Indian Ocean and it was an important source of phosphates, which were needed by Japanese industry. Since 1900, the island had been mined for its phosphate, and at the time of the battle there was a large labour force, consisting of 1,000 Chinese and Malays working under the supervision of a small group of British overseers. In addition, there were about 100 women and 200 children on the island.\n\nAfter the occupation of Java, Japanese Imperial General Headquarters issued orders for \"Operation X\" (the invasion and occupation of Christmas Island) on 14 March 1942. Rear Admiral Shōji Nishimura was assigned to command the Second Southern Expeditionary Fleet's Occupation Force, with the light cruiser as his flagship. The fleet also consisted of the light cruisers and , and destroyers , , , , , , and , oiler \"Akebono Maru\" and transports \"Kimishima Maru\" and \"Kumagawa Maru\", with 850 men of the 21st and 24th Special Base Forces and the 102nd Construction Unit.\n\nOpposing this invasion force was a gun that had been built in 1900 and had been mounted on Christmas Island in 1940. The British garrison—a detachment of the Hong Kong and Singapore Royal Artillery—numbered 32 troops. They were led by a British officer, Captain L. W. T. Williams. Williams' force consisted of an Indian officer, Subadar Muzaffar Khan; 27 Punjabi Indian gunners and non-commissioned officer (NCOs); and four British NCOs.\n\nA group of Punjabi troops, apparently believing Japanese propaganda concerning the liberation of India from British rule, and probably acting with the tacit support of some or all of the local Sikh police officers, mutinied. On 11 March, they shot and killed Williams and the four British NCOs and tossed their bodies into the sea. They then locked up the district officer and the few other European inhabitants of the island pending an execution that apparently was thwarted by the Japanese occupation.\n\nAt dawn on 31 March 1942, a dozen Japanese bombers launched the attack, destroying the radio station. The mutineers signalled their intention to surrender, raising a white flag before the 850-man landing force had come ashore. The Japanese expeditionary corps was able to disembark at Flying Fish Cove without opposition.\n\nAt 09:49 the same morning, the US Navy submarine fired four torpedoes at the \"Naka\"; all missed. \"Seawolf\" attacked again at 06:50 the following morning, firing three torpedoes at \"Natori\", missing again. That evening, with her final two torpedoes, from , \"Seawolf\" managed to hit \"Naka\" on her starboard side, near her No.1 boiler. The damage was severe enough that \"Naka\" had to be towed back to Singapore by \"Natori\", and eventually was forced to return to Japan for a year of repairs. Following the hit, the other Japanese vessels depth charged the US submarine for over nine hours but it escaped.\n\n\"Natori\" returned to Christmas Island and withdrew all elements of the occupation force, with the exception of a 20-man garrison detachment, to Banten Bay, Indonesia, on 3 April 1942. The Japanese gained phosphate rock which was loaded on the transport ships.\n\nFollowing the occupation, the Japanese garrison attempted to put the Chinese and Malays to work, although many escaped further inland to live off the land. The mutineers also became labourers, being employed to clean storage bins. Production was only very limited after the occupation and after the 17 November 1942 sinking of the \"Nissei Maru\" by the submarine USS \"Searaven\" while unloading at the wharf, phosphate production was halted altogether. Over 60 percent of the island's population, including the European prisoners, were relocated to Java by December 1943. After the war, Christmas Island was reoccupied by the UK in mid-October 1945.\n\nIn the post war period, seven Punjabi mutineers were traced and court-martialled in Singapore. The first six to be identified and tried were convicted on 13 March 1947. Five were sentenced to death, and one was sentenced to two years' imprisonment and discharge with ignominy. King George VI confirmed the death sentences on 13 August 1947. British rule in India ended shortly afterward, with India gaining independence and Pakistan being created before the executions could be carried out, and thus diplomatic issues had to be taken into account. In October 1947, a seventh mutineer was identified. He was also court-martialled and sentenced to death. An eighth soldier was identified as a participant in the mutiny but was never caught. On 8 December 1947, the death sentences were commuted to penal servitude for life after the governments of India and Pakistan made representations. After further arguments between the UK and Pakistan over where the sentences should be served, with the British demanding they serve nine years, the six prisoners were transferred to Pakistan in June 1955, after which the British government ended its interest in the case.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2000915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000915", "title": "Brewster SB2A Buccaneer", "text": "Brewster SB2A Buccaneer\n\nThe Brewster SB2A Buccaneer was a single-engined mid-wing monoplane scout/bomber aircraft built for the Royal Air Force (RAF) and United States Navy between 1942 and 1944. It was also supplied to the United States Army Air Forces and United States Marine Corps.\n\nThe SB2A was developed for the US Navy, and also ordered in large quantities by the Dutch, French, and British Governments. The Dutch order was later taken over by the US Navy and the French order by Britain. An Australian order was cancelled before any of the type were delivered. The Buccaneer was underpowered and poorly constructed, and all of its operators considered it to be unsuitable for combat. SB2As were used as target tugs by the RAF and US Navy, trainers by the USMC, and \"hacks\" by the USAAF. Many of the completed aircraft were scrapped without entering service, and the type is considered by historians to have been among the worst of World War II.\n\nIn early 1939 the United States Navy's Bureau of Aeronautics launched a program to develop larger scout/bombers to operate from the Navy's aircraft carriers. In April that year the Brewster Aeronautical Corporation was selected to build a prototype of its Model 340 design to meet this requirement; this aircraft was to be designated the XSB2A-1.\nThe XSB2A-1's design was heavily based on the earlier Brewster SBA scout-bomber. It shared the single-engined, mid-winged monoplane layout of the earlier aircraft, but was larger and had a more powerful engine. The XSB2A-1 was powered by a single Wright R-2600 engine which drove a three-bladed propeller. It was armed with two forward-firing 0.50 inch calibre machine guns in the fuselage and two 0.30 machine guns in each wing. The type was also initially intended to have an enclosed gun turret. The aircraft could carry up to of bombs in an internal bomb bay.\n\nThe first XSB2A-1 prototype commenced flying trials on 17 June 1941. The results of this testing and changing requirements led to significant changes to the design. These included the airframe being lengthened by 1 foot and two inches, the turret being replaced by a flexible mount in the rear of the cockpit for a pair of 0.30 machine guns, the addition of armour and self-sealing fuel tanks, and changes to the design of the fins and canopy. The combined effect of these changes resulted in the aircraft's weight increasing by almost , which greatly reduced its speed, weapons load, and flying range.\n\nIn its final form, the SB2A weighed empty and had a maximum take-off weight of . It had a maximum speed of , a cruising speed of , and a maximum range of . The airframe was not well designed, and could be easily damaged. The SB2A was manned by a crew of two: a pilot and\nairman who served as both an observer and a gunner.\n\nThe French Government placed an order for 250 SB2As. Following the fall of France this order was taken over by the British Government, which subsequently ordered a further 500 during 1940; in British service the type was designated the Brewster Bermuda. The Dutch Government also ordered 162 SB2As before the German conquest of the country in May 1940. The Australian Government ordered 243 Bermudas for the Royal Australian Air Force in mid-1940. In December 1940 the US Navy placed an order for 140 SB2As.\n\nDeliveries of the SB2A were greatly delayed. When the French Government placed its order it expected to begin receiving the type from April 1941, after Brewster completed the production of its Brewster F2A Buffalo fighters. However, Brewster experienced difficulties in completing the Buffalos and commencing work on the SB2A. After the British Government requested substantial modifications to the SB2A in early 1941, Brewster formally advised that it would be unable to start deliveries of the type as had been planned earlier. These delays led the Australian Government to cancel its order of Bermudas in October 1941 in favour of purchasing 297 Vultee Vengeances. Following the attack on Pearl Harbour, the US Government appropriated 192 of the aircraft which had been ordered by the British in January 1942; these aircraft were to be operated by the United States Army Air Forces (USAAF).\n\nSerious problems within Brewster also contributed to delays. The company was badly run, and its workforce was poorly trained and frequently took strike action. After Brewster missed deadlines to deliver aircraft to the US Navy, it was taken over by the Navy in April 1942. Production continued to be slow, however, and many of the completed SB2As suffered from defects.\n\nDeliveries of Brewster Bermudas to the British Royal Air Force commenced in July 1942. The RAF judged that the type was unsuitable for combat, and most of the Bermudas delivered to the service were converted to target tugs. Five of the aircraft were transferred to the Fleet Air Arm of the Royal Navy for assessment – four as dive bombers and one as a target towing tug.\n\nThe USAAF received 108 Bermudas, which it designated the A-34. The type was considered unsuitable even for training purposes, and were used only as \"hacks\". As the aircraft broke down they were either abandoned or used as targets for artillery training. The A-34s were withdrawn from service in 1944.\n\nDeliveries to the US Navy took place during 1943 and 1944. The service received 80 SB2A-2s and 60 SB2A-3s; the latter variant was fitted with folding wings and an arrester hook to enable them to operate from aircraft carriers. The US Navy also regarded the SB2A as unsuitable for combat and training purposes, and mainly used its aircraft as target tugs and for ground maintenance training.\n\nThe aircraft originally ordered by the Dutch were assigned by the US Navy to the United States Marine Corps. Designated the SB2A-4, the Marines used some of these aircraft to establish their first night fighter squadron VMF(N)-531.\n\nDue to the poor performance of the SB2A, many of the completed aircraft were scrapped by the RAF and US Navy without having been flown operationally. The US Navy cancelled its remaining order of the type in 1943. A total of 771 SB2As were eventually completed.\n\nThe Truman Committee stated that the SB2A \"turned in a miserable performance.\"\n\nHistorians regard the SB2A as a failure. David Donald has labelled it \"one of the worst aircraft of World War II\". Similarly, the Pima Air & Space Museum's website states that the type was \"perhaps the least successful Allied aircraft of World War II\". The National Naval Aviation Museum's website also notes that \"overweight, underpowered, and lacking maneuverability, the Brewster SB2A Buccaneer was a classic failure\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2000918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000918", "title": "AWA Midwest Heavyweight Championship", "text": "AWA Midwest Heavyweight Championship\n\nThe AWA Midwest Heavyweight Championship was a title in the late 1967 and early 1972 in the American Wrestling Association. It was primarily defended in the Omaha, Nebraska area and was a title for mid-level wrestlers.\n"}
{"id": "2000923", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000923", "title": "Caesium iodide", "text": "Caesium iodide\n\nCaesium iodide or cesium iodide (chemical formula CsI) is the ionic compound of caesium and iodine. It is often used as the input phosphor of an X-ray image intensifier tube found in fluoroscopy equipment. Caesium iodide photocathodes are highly efficient at extreme ultraviolet wavelengths.\n\nBulk caesium iodide crystals have the cubic CsCl crystal structure, but the structure type of nanometer-thin CsI films depends on the substrate material – it is CsCl for mica and NaCl for LiF, NaBr and NaCl substrates.\n\nCaesium iodide atomic chains can be grown inside double-wall carbon nanotubes. In such chains I atoms appear brighter than Cs atoms in electron micrographs despite having a smaller mass. This difference was explained by the charge difference between Cs atoms (positive), inner nanotube walls (negative) and I atoms (negative). As a result, Cs atoms are attracted to the walls and vibrate more strongly than I atoms, which are pushed toward the nanotube axis.\n\nAn important application of caesium iodide crystals, which are scintillators, is electromagnetic calorimetry in experimental particle physics. Pure CsI is a fast and dense scintillating material with relatively low light yield that increases significantly with cooling. It shows two main emission components: one in the near ultraviolet region at the wavelength of 310 nm and one at 460 nm. The drawbacks of CsI are a high temperature gradient and a slight hygroscopicity.\n\nCaesium iodide is used as a beamsplitter in Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) spectrometers. It has a wider transmission range than the more common potassium bromide beamsplitters, working range into the far infrared. However, optical-quality CsI crystals are very soft and hard to cleave or polish. They should also be coated (typically with germanium) and stored in a desiccator, to minimize interaction with atmospheric water vapors.\n\nIn addition to image intensifier input phosphors, caesium iodide is often also used in medicine as the scintillating material in flat panel x-ray detectors.\n"}
{"id": "2000926", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000926", "title": "The Gastineau Girls", "text": "The Gastineau Girls\n\nGastineau Girls is an American reality series that made its debut on the E! cable channel in 2005. The show followed the daily exploits of Lisa Gastineau and Brittny Gastineau, respectively the ex-wife and only daughter (whom he has not seen in 17 years) of former NFL player Mark Gastineau.\n\nThe first season chronicled Lisa and Brittny's quest for love in New York City as well as Brittny's attempt to make it in the world of modeling. After its initial season ended, E! renewed the show for a second season. After airing two seasons, the show was cancelled.\n\nThe series was produced by True Entertainment, a subsidiary of Endemol Entertainment, known for CBS' \"Big Brother\".\n\nOn January 31, 2006, the series' first complete season was released on Region 1 DVD in the United States.\n\n"}
{"id": "2000938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000938", "title": "The Un-Americans", "text": "The Un-Americans\n\nThe Un-Americans (originally known as The Anti-Americans) were a professional wrestling stable in World Wrestling Entertainment who were active from 2002 to 2003. The stable was originally composed of three anti-American Canadian wrestlers: Lance Storm, Christian and Test. Towards the end of the Un-Americans existence, the trio was joined by British wrestler William Regal.\n\nThe Un-Americans were formed on \"SmackDown!\" in June 2002 by the Canadian Lance Storm, who had led a similar stable known as Team Canada in World Championship Wrestling. Storm claimed that World Wrestling Entertainment had discriminated against Canadians for years, citing the Montreal Screwjob as an example. Christian (who had teamed with Storm regularly since the fall of the WCW/ECW Alliance) and Test, also Canadian, joined the burgeoning stable later that month. The stable was named \"The Anti-Americans\" shortly thereafter.\n\nIn the lead-up to the formation of the group, each member had suffered a televised loss, decided by the ineptitude of the referee calling the match. Lance Storm lost a tag team match when he used a Bridging German Suplex to pin his opponent Billy Kidman. Storm inadvertently put his own shoulders on the mat, forcing the referee to count a pinfall on both men. Storm managed to raise his shoulder off the mat before Kidman did, but the referee did not see this, and awarded the victory to Kidman's team. In the following weeks, Christian and Test were pinned by their opponents in matches, and the referee failed to see that they were touching the ring-ropes (thus invalidating the pin attempt).\n\nAs indicated by the name, the Anti-Americans differed from previous incarnations of Team Canada in that they were anti-American rather than pro-Canadian. As a result of this, the emblem of the stable was not the Canadian flag, but an American flag flown upside down.\n\nIn July, The Anti-Americans began feuding with wrestlers such as Rikishi, fellow Canadian Edge and Hollywood Hulk Hogan. At Vengeance on July 21, Storm and Christian defeated Edge and Hogan to win the WWE Tag Team Championship. They were assisted by Chris Jericho, another Canadian, who both proposed the match to Mr. McMahon, and helped them win it after striking Edge with one of the belts. However, Jericho did not formally join the stable and had only helped due to an ongoing feud with Edge. Original plans, according to Storm, were to have the four Canadians form a group called \"C-4\", but plans were scrapped before many details could be worked out. In fact, Jericho had jumped to \"Raw\" on the same day as the stable, but still did not join them, though he was sometimes regarded as an associate (especially with Christian).\n\nThe Anti-Americans then jumped from SmackDown! to Raw on July 29, and immediately began a feud with The Undertaker. Up until this night, the WWE Tag Team Championship was only active on the SmackDown! brand. But when the stable moved to Raw, the titles moved too, forcing the creation of a second tag team championship. This was when Jim Ross started referring to the group as \"The Un-Americans\". They went on to feud with Booker T and Goldust, who Storm and Christian defeated to retain the WWE Tag Team Championship at SummerSlam on August 25. Later that night, Undertaker defeated Test in a singles match.\n\nIn late August and early September, The Un-Americans attempted on several occasions to burn the American flag, but were thwarted on each occasion by Booker T, Goldust, Kane and Bradshaw. In mid-September, the English William Regal joined the stable. At Unforgiven on September 22, The Un-Americans lost to Booker T, Goldust, Kane and Bubba Ray Dudley in an eight-man tag team match.\nStorm and Christian lost the WWE Tag Team Championship on the September 23 episode of \"Raw\" to Kane and The Hurricane. Following the match, both Storm and Christian blamed one another for the loss. One week later, Storm and Christian were both defeated in singles matches (by the same man, Randy Orton), and Test and Regal lost a tag team match. The series of losses divided The Un-Americans, and the stable split in brawling fashion.\n\nThe stable continued as a tag team featuring Regal and Storm, retaining their anti-American sentiments, although with an emphasis on their respective English and Canadian heritage, regaining the (renamed) World Tag Team Championship on two occasions. Meanwhile, Test took on Stacy Keibler as a manager, and turned face. Christian went on to team with Jericho and serve as Jericho's side-kick and partner.\n\nIt was commented by Michael Hayes during a segment of \"The Legends of Wrestling\" - Patriotism, that everyone in the Un-Americans were afraid of the \"heat\" brought on by the angle. Regal was remarked to be the only one who was not and due to that, the angle was short-lived. Storm later denied this claim.\n\nBoth men split up in March 2003 after Regal got a heart parasite in India while WWE was on tour (thus permanently disbanding the team). Storm worked for the company until retiring from wrestling in April 2004.\n\nTest would stay with WWE until November 2004. He went to wrestle for other promotions in the United States, Nu-Wrestling in Italy, and World Series Wrestling in Australia. He returned to WWE in March 2006 and was released less than a year later. He died on March 13, 2009 of a drug overdose.\n\nRegal returned to wrestling in April 2004 and was the general manager of Raw from 2007 until 2008. He retired from wrestling in 2013. He has been the general manager of NXT since July 2014.\n\nChristian became a four time Intercontinental Champion winning his second (he won his first in September 2001, nine months before the stable's formation) at Judgment Day in May 2003. He stayed with the company until November 2005 when he went to Total Nonstop Action Wrestling and became a main eventer winning the NWA World Heavyweight Championship on two occasions in 2006 and 2007. He left TNA in January 2009 after his contract expired and returned to WWE a month later. He won the ECW Championship and the World Heavyweight Championship on two occasions each in 2009 and 2011 respectively. He retired from wrestling in 2014 after years of concussions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2000948", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000948", "title": "FSB (band)", "text": "FSB (band)\n\nFSB () (abbreviation for Formation Studio Balkanton) are an influential Bulgarian progressive rock band, formed in 1975 in Sofia as a studio project. FSB achieved great success in the 1980s and performed in numerous countries across Europe. Their collaboration with singer Jose Feliciano resulted in the album \"I'm Never Gonna Change\" and a Grammy award in 1990.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2000954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000954", "title": "St Volodymyr's Cathedral", "text": "St Volodymyr's Cathedral\n\nSt Volodymyr's Cathedral (, ) is a cathedral in the centre of Kiev. It is one of the city's major landmarks and the mother cathedral of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church – Kiev Patriarchate, one of two major Ukrainian Orthodox Churches.\n\nIn 1852, Metropolitan Philaret of Moscow suggested a large cathedral should be built in Kiev to commemorate the 900th anniversary of the baptism of Kievan Rus' by prince Vladimir I of Kiev (St. Volodymyr). People from all over the Russian Empire started donating to this cause, so that by 1859 the cathedral fund had amassed a huge sum of 100,000 rubles. The Kiev Pechersk Lavra (Monastery of the Caves) produced one million bricks and presented them to the cathedral as well. The design was executed in neo-Byzantine style initially by the architects I. Schtrom, P. Sparro, R. Bemhardt, K. Mayevsky, V. Nikolayev. The final version of the design belongs to Alexander Vikentievich Beretti. It is a traditional six-piered, three-apsed temple crowned by seven cupolas. The height to the cross of the main dome is .\n\nThe colourful interior of the cathedral is particularly striking. Its mosaics were executed by masters from Venice. The frescoes were created under the guidance of Professor Adrian Prakhov by a group of famous painters: Wilhelm Kotarbiński, Mikhail Nesterov, Mykola Pymonenko, Pavel Svedomsky, Viktor Vasnetsov, Mikhail Vrubel, Viktor Zamyraylo (1868-1939), and others. The painting of the Holy Mother of God by Vasnetsov in the altar apse of the cathedral impresses by its austere beauty.\n\nThe entrance door is adorned with relief bronze sculptures of St. Olga (Princess Olga of Kiev) by sculptor Robert Bakh and St. Vladimir (sculptor H. Zaieman) against a blue background. The iconostasis is carved from the white marble brought from Carrara. The cathedral was completed in 1882, however, the paintings were fully completed only in 1896.\n\nThe cathedral risked damage during the Polish-Soviet War in 1920. During the Soviet period, the cathedral narrowly escaped demolition, but not closure. Until the Second World War it served as a museum of religion and atheism. The relics of St Barbara, a martyr of the 3rd century AD, were transferred to St Volodymyr's from the St. Michael's Golden-Domed Monastery before it was destroyed by the Bolsheviks, and have remained there since.\n\nAfter the war the cathedral was reopened and since remained continually open. It was then the main church of the Kiev Metropolitan See of the Ukrainian Exarchate. The cathedral was one of the few places in the USSR where tourists could openly visit a working Orthodox Church. It saw the revival of Orthodox religion in 1988 when the millennium celebration of the Baptism of Rus' marked a change in Soviet policy on religion.\n\nAfter the dissolution of the Soviet Union, St Volodymyr's Cathedral ownership became an issue of controversy between two denominations that both claim to represent Ukrainian Orthodox Christianity - the Ukrainian Orthodox Church, a church with an autonomous status under the Moscow Patriarchy, and the newly established Ukrainian Orthodox Church - Kiev Patriarchy, which, ultimately, won the control over the cathedral.\n\nSpiritual leaders of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church of Kiev Patriarchy continue to conduct religious services and prayers in St. Volodymyr's Cathedral. All the ceremonies are conducted in Ukrainian, accompanied during religious holidays by the Cathedral choir, which is often joined by opera singers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2000955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000955", "title": "Some Enchanted Evening", "text": "Some Enchanted Evening\n\n\"Some Enchanted Evening\" is a show tune from the 1949 Rodgers and Hammerstein musical \"South Pacific\". It is \"the single biggest popular hit to come out of any Rodgers and Hammerstein show.\" It is a three-verse solo for the leading male character, Emile, in which he describes seeing a stranger, knowing that he will see her again, and dreaming of her laughter. He sings that when you find your \"true love\", you must \"fly to her side, / And make her your own.\"\n\nThe song appears in the first act of the musical. It is sung as a solo by the show's male lead, Emile de Becque, a middle-aged French expatriate who has become a plantation owner on a South Pacific island during World War II. Emile falls in love with Ensign Nellie Forbush, an optimistic and naive young American navy nurse from Little Rock, Arkansas. The two have known each other for only a few weeks, and each worries that the other may not return his or her love. Emile expresses his romantic feelings for Nellie, recalling how they met at an officers' club dance and instantly were attracted to each other. He asks her to marry him. In the song, he describes a man seeing a stranger and instantly knowing he will see her again, hearing her laughter and dreaming of it. He says that when you find your \"true love\", you must \"fly to her side, / And make her your own\"; otherwise, all your life you will \"dream all alone\". The song is then reprised several times during the show by Nellie and/or Emile as their relationship experiences setbacks and reconciliations.\n\nIn the original Broadway production, \"Some Enchanted Evening\" was sung by former Metropolitan Opera bass Ezio Pinza. Pinza won the Tony Award for Best Actor in 1950 for this role, and the song made him a favorite with audiences and listeners who normally did not attend or listen to opera. In the 2001 London revival of the show, Philip Quast won an Olivier Award for Best Actor for his role as Emile, and seven years later, international opera singer Paulo Szot won a Tony for his portrayal in the 2008 New York revival.\n\nIn the film version of \"South Pacific\", the first and second scenes of the play are switched around. Because of the switch, Emile enters later in the film, and \"Some Enchanted Evening\" is not heard until nearly 45 minutes into the film, while in the original stage version it is heard about 15 minutes after Act I begins. In the film, the song is sung by another Metropolitan Opera bass, Giorgio Tozzi, who dubbed the singing for actor Rossano Brazzi. Tozzi's version finished at No. 28 on the 2004 American Film Institute list and television special, \"AFI's 100 Years...100 Songs\", selecting the top 100 songs in American cinema.\n\nAccording to \"Popular Music in America\", the song's \"lush orchestration, expansive form, and above all its soaring melody\" allow the singer and character (Emile) to \"linger in the moment\" of immediate infatuation. Gerald Mast's history of the American musical notes that the song is a climactic moment which reveals that two characters have fallen in love, and it expresses a seize-the-opportunity lyric: \"When you find your true love ... Then fly to her side / And make her your own\". According to the running commentary on the 2006 Fox DVD release of the 1958 film version of \"South Pacific\", Lehman Engel remembered that Oscar Hammerstein II wanted to write a song based around verbs but waited ten years to do so before he wrote this song, in which the verses are built around the verbs \"see\", \"hear\" and \"fly\".\n\nMany popular singers have recorded and performed \"Some Enchanted Evening\". Perry Como's version was a #1 hit in 1949, and Frank Sinatra recorded the song several times.\n\nThe song's title has been used as the name for albums, such as one by Blue Öyster Cult, one by Art Garfunkel and a cast album and PBS special of the revue \"\"Some Enchanted Evening\" – The Songs of Rodgers & Hammerstein\". It was used as the name for television episodes in such TV series as \"The Simpsons\", \"Last of the Summer Wine\", \"Man About the House\", and \"Bless This House\". The song has been sung in films and on TV shows, for example by Harrison Ford in the film \"American Graffiti\" (1978 reissue), by an itinerant chanteuse in \"Crossing Delancey\" (1988), by Jon Bon Jovi on \"Ally McBeal\" in the episode \"Homecoming\" (2002) and by Bert in episode 102 on \"the Muppet Show\" (1977) to Connie Stevens.\n"}
{"id": "2000956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000956", "title": "Huckapoo", "text": "Huckapoo\n\nHuckapoo was an American teen pop girl group. Its members each portray a character from a different social group typically found on any high school campus. Twiggy Stardom, a preppy cheerleader, by Brittany Lahm; Groovy Tuesday, a flower child hippie, by Jordan Price; P.J. Bardot, a hip-hop princess, by Brooke Mori; and Joey Thunders, a punk, by Lindsay Nyman. The ex-member was Angel Sparks, a biker, played by Brittney Segal.\n\nThe group was formed late in 2003 by Brian Lukow (creator of recently broken up boy band Dream Street) after auditioning hundreds of girls. They did not release an album, but have had their songs featured on several Disney albums. Their song \"Perfectly\" is on the Disney original movie soundtrack for \"Pixel Perfect\".\n\nIn April 2006, Brittney Segal (Angel Sparks) decided to leave Huckapoo. Their songs were featured in the film \"Spy School\", along with their own version of \"Macho Man\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2000963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000963", "title": "Limitanei", "text": "Limitanei\n\nThe limitanei or ripenses, meaning respectively \"the soldiers in frontier districts\" (from the Latin phrase limes, meaning a military district of a frontier province) or \"the soldiers on the riverbank\" (from the Rhine and Danube), were an important part of the late Roman and early Byzantine army after the reorganizations of the late 3rd and early 4th centuries. The limitanei, unlike the comitatenses, palatini, and scolae, garrisoned fortifications along the borders of the Roman Empire and were not normally expected to fight far from their fortifications.\n\nThe limitanei were lower-status and lower-paid than the comitatenses and palatini, and the status distinction between scolae, palatini, comitatenses, and limitanei had largely replaced the older distinction between praetorians, legionaries, and auxiliaries. The limitanei and palatini both included legionary units alongside auxiliary units.\n\nThe nature of the limitanei changed considerably between their introduction in the 3rd or 4th century and their disappearance in the 6th or 7th century. In the 4th century, the limitanei were professional soldiers, and included both infantry and cavalry as well as river flotillas, but after the 5th century they were part-time soldiers, and after the 6th century they were unpaid militia.\n\nThe role of the limitanei remains somewhat uncertain. Hugh Elton and Warren Treadgold suggest that, besides garrisoning fortifications along the frontier, they operated as border guards and customs police and to prevent small-scale raids. They may have driven off medium-scale attacks without the support of the field armies. Edward Luttwak saw their role as a key part in a strategy of defence-in-depth in combination with the provincial field armies.\n\nIn the early 3rd century, the Roman military was organized into several provincial armies under the command of the provincial governors, a smaller reserve under the command of the emperor, guard units such as the Praetorian Guard, and the urban cohorts. Field armies were temporary formations, usually composed of the reserve and/or of detachments drawn from the provincial armies. In the later 3rd century, due to the frequent wars, field armies could remain together for several years, under the direct command of the emperor, and would require their own recruitment systems.\n\nBy the mid 4th century, the Roman military was divided into frontier armies under the command of the provincial duces and permanent field armies under the command of the emperor, the magistri peditum, magistri equitum, or comites. The frontier armies would patrol the borders and oppose small-scale raids. They may have driven off medium-scale attacks without the support of the field armies. The frontier armies would later be known as limitanei or ripenses. The field armies would respond to larger-scale attacks, would fight against rival emperors, and would conduct any large-scale attacks into neighboring countries. The field armies would later be known as comitatenses or palatini. The first known written reference to \"ripenses\" was in 325 and the first to \"limitanei\" was not until 363.\n\nHistorians disagree on whether the emperor Diocletian, or one of his successors, such as Constantine I, split the Roman military into frontier armies and field armies. Theodor Mommsen, H.M.D. Parker, and more recently, Warren Treadgold and David S. Potter attribute the reorganization to Diocletian. E.C. Nischer, D. van Berchem, and more recently, M.C. Bishop and J.C.N. Coulston attribute mainly an expansion to Diocletian, and the reorganization to Constantine I and his successors. Karl Strobel sees the reorganization as the culmination of trends going back well into the 3rd century, with Diocletian strengthening both the frontier and field armies.\n\nThe division of the Roman Empire, the collapse of its western portion, and the formation of the successor states means that the limitanei may have developed differently in the east and the west, or even in different regions of the west.\n\nIn the east, the emperor Justinian cancelled their pay. After this, the eastern limitanei were no longer professional soldiers, but continued to exist as militia through the Persian Wars and the Arab Conquest.\n\nThe Arabic ajnad of Palestine, Jordan, Damascus, and Homs, may represent continuations of the commands of Palaestina, Arabia, Phoeniciae, and Syria.\n\nIn the west, the collapse of the empire cut off regular pay. Peter Heather notes an incident in the Life of St. Severinus, in Noricum in the 460s, where raiders had intercepted and cut down limitanei who were bringing their pay to the rest of their unit.\n\nThe limitanei represented the largest part of the late Roman Army. The eastern portion of the \"Notitia Dignitatum\", from about 395, may count some 195,500 personnel in the frontier armies not counting the river flotillas, 104,000 in the field armies not counting the fleets, and 3,500 in the palace guard. The western portion, from about 420, is harder to work with, because it has been unevenly edited, it omits some frontier provinces, and it includes British provinces which were probably lost to the Empire.\n\nThe size of the army, and therefore of the limitanei, remains controversial. A.H.M. Jones and Warren Treadgold argue that the late Roman army was significantly larger than earlier Roman armies, and Treadgold estimates they had up to 645,000 troops. Karl Strobel denies this, and Strobel estimates that the late Roman army had some 435,000 troops in the time of Diocletian and 450,000 in the time of Constantine I.\n\nThe limitanei were usually under the command of the duces of their respective provinces. There were some exceptions, with comites commanding units of limitanei, and with duces commanding units from two or more provinces.\n\nThe units of the limitanei included legiones of infantry, often divided between two bases and sometimes divided among more, numeri, milites, and cohortes of infantry, as well as vexillationes, equites, cunei, and alae of cavalry. The size of the legions is unclear. A.H.M. Jones suggested that they could have as many as 3,000 troops, because they are often listed with 10 cohorts, and because they are sometimes divided among many bases. Warren Treadgold suggests that the legions probably had about 1,000 troops and the other units probably had about 500 troops each. The different titles of numeri, milites, and cohorts, or vexillationes, equites, cunei, and alae, probably did not correspond with different structures or roles, although according to Pat Southern and Karen Dixon, the \"legiones\", \"auxilia\", and \"cunei\" of the border armies were part of the \"limitanei\", but higher-status than the older \"cohortes\" and \"alae\" in the same armies. Warren Treadgold estimates that 50.1% of the limitanei were infantry and 49.9% cavalry, not counting river flotillas.\n\nThe role of the limitanei remains somewhat uncertain.\n\nNeither Vegetius, writing in the late 4th or early 5th century, nor Mauricius, writing in the late 6th century, discuss the limitanei in their military manuals. This is understandable. Vegetius called for the revival of earlier Roman practices, from before the organization of the limitanei, and Mauricius wrote after the decline of the limitanei.\n\nHugh Elton and Warren Treadgold suggest that, besides garrisoning fortifications along the frontier, they operated as border guards and customs police and to prevent small-scale raids. Hugh Elton describes their roles as \"policing the border, gathering intelligence, and stopping raids.\" They may have driven off medium-scale attacks without the support of the field armies. Edward Luttwak saw their role as a key part in a strategy of defence-in-depth, manning a range of defences from forts to walled towns in a deep defensive zone. These defences would deny routes to the enemy, securing food stocks and, in arid areas, water supplies both to restrict attackers and facilitate counterattack by provincial field armies\n\nBecause units of limitanei operated in one area, had their own camps, and often recruited from the same area, they tended to maintain better relations with the locals than the comitatenses and palatini, who would often be transferred to other areas, and were often quartered in civilian homes.\n\nThey were light troops and served as a policing force to patrol Rome's distant, far-flung border regions and when necessary, to delay advancing enemy forces until counter-attacks could be arranged. They worked in conjunction with the \"comitatenses\".\n\nThe relationship between the limitanei, of the border armies, and the pseudocomitatenses, the lowest-ranking units of the field armies, remains unclear. Theodor Mommsen proposed that the pseudocomitatenses were former units of limitanei incorporated into the mobile field armies, and most authors since have followed his theory. E.C. Nischer proposed the alternate theory that the pseudocomitatenses were positional garrison units which were independent of the border armies and thus placed under the same command as the field armies.\n\nIn the past historians have suggested that the limitanei were organized as units of part-time farmer-soldiers. In this view, the limitanei were used in stationary roles along the frontier and were granted plots of land to cultivate, which essentially turned them into part-time soldiers/farmers. It was usually assumed that over time the limitanei settled down more permanently in their posts and became farmers and land owners as well as soldiers; raising families and earning a living from agricultural means rather than purely military service. It is now more generally assumed that there is no good evidence for this.\n\nThe current consensus seems to be that the limitanei were organized as units of professional soldiers, but they gradually became part-time soldiers and eventually an unpaid militia, relying on other professions including farming for income.\n\nWhy this new class of soldiers developed is disputed by historians. According to Azar Gat, many scholars believe that empires stationed these soldiers on the outskirts of empires as a first line of defense against raiding barbarians tribes. As the soldier profession is often not productive (prolonged periods of training with only occasional conflict), empires had long resorted to this principle of \"military colonists.\" Thus, the late Roman empire adopted the system of limitanei (frontier-colonist-soldier) for economic reasons. By employing soldiers in this way, Rome was able to capitalize on their knowledge of warfare as well benefit from the agriculture produced by limitanei. Edward Luttwak, however, sees the change as due a strategic shift away from a firmly held frontier (\"preclusive defence\") to a less firmly held frontier zone backed with mobile forces (\"defence-in-depth\") as responsible for the change, though again referencing parallels of military colonists at other times in history.\n\nM.C. Bishop and J.C.N. Coulston, in a major work on Roman military equipment, do not distinguish that of the limitanei from that of the comitatenses and palatini. It is doubtful whether there were any universal differences between the equipment of the limitanei and of the other forces.\n\nThe late Roman empire had centralized fabricae, introduced by Diocletian, to provide arms and armor for the army.\n\nThe 4th century limitanei included both light and heavy infantry, as well as light and heavy cavalry, and river flotillas.\n\nThe limitanei garrisoned fortifications along the borders of the Roman empire. Hugh Elton divides these into four categories: \"garrison forts, detachment forts, watchtowers, and fortified landing places.\" These fortifications could be organized into lines along rivers, such as the Rhine and Danube, or at times part of the Euphrates, along fortified walls such as Hadrian's Wall, or along otherwise unfortified roads such as the Strata Diocletiana.\n\nGarrison forts are those at or near the towns along the frontiers, as well as other forts, garrisoned by independent units of limitanei.\n\nDetachment forts are those too small for independent units, garrisoned by detachments from the nearest garrison fort.\n\nFortified landing places are those on the opposite side of riverine borders.\n\nBoth Diocletian and Constantine I reinforced the frontier fortifications. The fort of Deutz/Divitia, an important bridgehead on the east bank of the Rhine, was built in this period. Generally speaking there were more and smaller forts along the late Roman border than along the earlier Roman imperial borders. This has been interpreted as evidence that units were smaller than before, that units were divided among multiple forts, or both.\n\nThe effectiveness of the limitanei, as units, and as part of the larger system, remains controversial.\n\nThe soldiers of the frontier armies were paid less than their counterparts in the field armies. However, this does not imply that the field armies always hired the most promising recruits; some may have preferred to stay close to home rather than to join units which could be deployed anywhere else. The soldiers of the frontier armies are often supposed to have been part-time farmer-soldiers without the same degree of training as the soldiers of the field armies; however, they were originally full-time soldiers.\n\nAlthough these military reforms brought about a more effective defensive army than the previous arrangement had, it did have its pitfalls.\n\nConstantine I was criticised for allowing what were perceived as \"second-class\" infantry, often recruited from non-Roman backgrounds, to be given the responsibility of watching over Rome's most troublesome regions. The elite Comitatenses and Scholae Palatinae (the personal bodyguards of the late Roman Emperors such as Constantine I) resented being reduced to trivial home guard duties and acting more similarly to an urban police force until such a time that a serious enough threat presented itself at a nearby border, when they were called upon for duty.\n\nThey are historically significant in that their appearance, as part of a plan of military reforms enacted in the late 3rd century, was able to extend the life of the Roman Empire by pushing back the great barbarian invasions of late antiquity.\n\nThe quality of these border troops declined because the limitanei had to live in poor conditions in impoverished and isolated towns, unlike their well-off counterparts the comitatenses, who were typically assigned to more urban and prosperous areas of the empire. This affected the discipline and morale of the late Roman army.\n\nThe limitanei were nonetheless a fairly well equipped and trained force of infantry for their time, especially in relation to other standing armies of the day fielded by Rome's Germanic, Celtic, Iranian, and Eastern neighbours, collectively referred to as \"barbarians\" by the Romans themselves.\n\nIt can be surmised, due in part to these reforms, that the Roman Empire continued to live on for another 140 years after the end of Constantine's reign, in the face of numerous migrations and invasions from northern and eastern, nomadic peoples such as the Huns, Goths, Vandals, Ostrogoths, Sarmatians, Alans, Burgundians, Saxons and Franks, which continually weakened the Empire until its eventual collapse in 476 AD.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2000971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000971", "title": "Seeb", "text": "Seeb\n\nAl-Seeb, As Seeb or As Sib () is a coastal fishing city, located several kilometres northwest of Muscat, in northeastern Oman. As of the 2003 census, it had a population of 221,115.\n\nLandmarks include the Naseem Garden, the Royal Stables and Equestrian Centre, Royal Guard of Oman Technical College, the Bait al Baraka palace, Seeb International Airport and Markaz al Bahja.\n\nThe “Fort of Sibo” was located in Seeb (As Seeb or As Sib), a few kilometers northwest of Muscat, capital of the Sultanate of Oman.\n\nIt complemented the defense of Muscat Square, which was one of its first and most important defenses. It was part of a serial of fortified cities that the Portugal had to control the access to the Persian Gulf and the Gulf of Oman, like Khor Fakan, Muscat, Sohar, Seeb, Qurayyat and Muttrah. It is demolished, at its former place today stands the Muscat International Airport.\n\nThe Seeb is famous for being the location in which the Treaty of Seeb agreement took place between the Imamate of Oman and the Sultanate of Muscat on 25 September 1920. This treaty divided Oman into two distinct regions, the interior and the coast, which were separated historically by the Al Hajar Mountains.\n\nIn June 2014 \"The Register\" disclosed that Seeb is the location of a \"beyond top secret\" GCHQ internet monitoring site.\n\nAl Seeb Club and Al-Shabab are located in Seeb.\n\nSeeb has a hot desert climate (Köppen climate classification \"BWh\") with very hot summers and warm winters. Precipitation is low, and falls mainly in the months from December to April.\n"}
{"id": "2000973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000973", "title": "Stag and doe", "text": "Stag and doe\n\nA stag and doe party, stag and drag party, hen and stag party, buck and doe party, a jack and jill party, or a wedding social is a Canadian party and fundraiser for an engaged couple.\n\nA cultural event in Canada, popular mostly in Manitoba or Ontario under various names to raise money for a couple for their future wedding plans or honeymoon. In Southern Ontario it may be called a stag and doe, or buck and doe, and in Northwestern Ontario it is called a shag. In Manitoba, this is often called a social or wedding social with less fundraising pressure than seen in Ontario.\n\nThe event is usually organized by the bridal party, but in some circumstances may also be held by the bride and groom before they are married, similar to a Jack & Jill. It acts as a fundraiser for the wedding. Guests purchase entrance tickets and are entertained by draws, food and drink, music and fun and games that they will pay for to participate in. It is not a combined stag night/bachelor party and bachelorette party, or engagement party, as the primary focus is to raise money for the engaged couple, so their new life together is not started in debt.\n\nThe intent of a stag and doe party is specifically to make a profit. \n\nOften, people who may not be close enough to the engaged couple to warrant an invitation to the wedding or reception (especially in the case of a small wedding), will be \"tapped\" to attend the stag and do so as to be part of the overall wedding fundraising. Hosting a stag and doe party does not preclude the couple from participating in other wedding-related parties, such as a bridal shower, bachelor party, bachelorette party, and so on. \n\nA popular stag and doe tradition is a toonie toss, which has guests toss toonies ( coins) at a Texas mickey (3L) bottle of liquor. The toss runs for some time until the Toonie closest to the bottle without making contact wins the bottle.\n\nIn Manitoba, in addition to purchasing entrance tickets, guests bid on silent auction prizes, participate in a 50-50 draw, and purchase liquor. Typical food at a Manitoba wedding social includes KUB bread, cold cuts, cheese cubes, and Timbits. Often the bridal or wedding shower is held the afternoon before the social. Other times, it is used as a fundraiser for the wedding itself and will be held a few weeks before the day of the wedding.\n\nAn uncommon event borrowed from the tradition of Canada, and only held in small pockets of certain US States. Guests typically have to purchase a ticket to cover the costs of the event. Guests could be offered memorabilia such as an engraved cup with the couple's names and wedding date.\n"}
{"id": "2000978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000978", "title": "Usigni", "text": "Usigni\n\nUsigni is a village in Umbria, a \"frazione\" of the \"comune\" of Poggiodomo in the Province of Perugia a few hundred metres downstream from the source of the Tissino River. It is located at 1,001 m (3,284 ft) above sea‑level.\n\nThe once-fortified village is now insignificant, with only 13 inhabitants according to the 2001 census, but was the home town of Fausto Cardinal Poli, private secretary to Pope Urban VIII, and benefited from his public-spiritedness: the church of S. Salvatore built by Poli in around 1640 was richly decorated with stuccos and frescos by Guidobaldo Abatini and Salvi Castellucci. Usigni is also very proud of an elegant well-head of the same period, attributed by some to Bernini, which it has adopted as its symbol.\n\n"}
{"id": "2000982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000982", "title": "AWA World Light Heavyweight Championship", "text": "AWA World Light Heavyweight Championship\n\nThe AWA World Light Heavyweight Championship was a title in the American Wrestling Association from 1981 until it closed in 1991. In 1988 Frontier Martial-Arts Wrestling claimed that Jim Backlund won the championship, something not officially acknowledged by the AWA. From 1988 through the closure of the AWA in 1991 there were two separate lineages, with the championship recognized by FMW being renamed in 1991 to become the FMW World Light Heavyweight Championship and then later on the WWA World Martial Arts Junior Heavyweight Championship before being abandoned altogether in 1993.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2000988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000988", "title": "Tokyo Gakugei University", "text": "Tokyo Gakugei University\n\nTokyo Gakugei University (東京学芸大学) or \"Gakudai\" (学大) and TGU, for short, is a national university in Koganei, Tokyo. While its history may be traced to 1873, it was formally chartered as a university in 1949 through the merging of four teacher-training institutions.\n\nIn 1966, the Graduate School of Tokyo Gakugei University was established, and since 1996 it has offered Doctoral degrees in the education field as part of a coalition of educational institutions that include Chiba University, Saitama University, and Yokohama National University.\n\nIn recent years, Tokyo Gakugei University has developed programs to better accommodate professional school teachers, including evening and short-term courses. The university also houses a number of national research centres in education-related fields. In addition to its Koganei campus, it also maintains a number of attached public schools offering curricula in elementary, secondary, and special education at various locations in the greater Tokyo area. \n\nThe university has a strong reputation in education-related fields, playing a national role in the development of educational policy and innovations in teacher education.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2000990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000990", "title": "Temple of Shadows", "text": "Temple of Shadows\n\nTemple of Shadows is the fifth studio and a concept album by the power metal band Angra and was released in 2004 by Paradoxx Music in Brazil and SPV label Steamhammer in the rest of the world. SPV also released a limited edition containing a bonus DVD with the complete video material of the concert that was previously released on their album \"Rebirth World Tour – Live in São Paulo\".\n\nThe 13 tracks tell a story written by guitarist Rafael Bittencourt about the life of a crusader in the 11th century - known as The Shadow Hunter - questioning the ideals of the Catholic Church.\n\n\n\"The entire population of the Holy city was put to the sword, Jews as well as Muslims, 70,000 men, women and children perished in a holocaust which raged for three days. In places men waded in blood up to their ankles and horsemen were splashed by it as they rode through the streets. Weeping, these devout conquerors went barefoot to pray at the Holy Sepulcher before rushing eagerly back to the slaughter.\" - Desmond Sweard, The Monks of War.\n\n\n\n\nThe album is featured by several guest musicians:\n\n"}
{"id": "2001005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001005", "title": "Pehr Löfling", "text": "Pehr Löfling\n\nPehr Löfling (31 January 1729 – 22 February 1756) was a Swedish botanist and an apostle of Carl Linnaeus.\n\nLöfling was born in Tolvfors Bruk, Gävle, Sweden. He studied at the University of Uppsala where he attended courses taught by Carl Linnaeus. When the Spanish ambassador asked Linnaeus to select a botanist for service in the American colonies, the professor at once named Loefling. He went to Spain in 1751 to learn Spanish, and then embarked with other scientists for South America in February 1754. In Cumana (actual Venezuela) he had entire charge of the department of natural history, and was assisted by two young Spanish doctors. He died in (Guayana, Venezuela). His death was considered a great loss to natural history, and especially to botany. Linnæus believed the loss irreparable. The manuscripts of Löfling, which were found after his death, were preserved by his two assistants.\n\nLinnæus used the name Loeflingia for the genus of some plants in the family Caryophyllaceae, one species of which grows in Spain and the other in Spanish America.\n\nParque Löefling in Ciudad Guayana, Venezuela is named after him.\n\nLinnnæus posthumously published his \"Iter Hispanicum, eller resa til Spanska Länderna uti Europa och America 1751 til 1756\" in 1758.\n\n"}
{"id": "2001007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001007", "title": "Constant maturity swap", "text": "Constant maturity swap\n\nA constant maturity swap, also known as a CMS, is a swap that allows the purchaser to fix the duration of received flows on a swap.\n\nThe floating leg of an interest rate swap typically resets against a published index. The floating leg of a constant maturity swap fixes against a point on the swap curve on a periodic basis.\n\nA constant maturity swap is an interest rate swap where the interest rate on one leg is reset periodically, but with reference to a market swap rate rather than LIBOR. The other leg of the swap is generally LIBOR, but may be a fixed rate or potentially another constant maturity rate. Constant maturity swaps can either be single currency or cross currency swaps. Therefore, the prime factor for a constant maturity swap is the shape of the forward implied yield curves. A single currency constant maturity swap versus LIBOR is similar to a series of differential interest rate fixes (or \"DIRF\") in the same way that an interest rate swap is similar to a series of forward rate agreements. Valuation of constant maturity swaps depend on volatilities of different forward rates and therefore requires a stochastic yield curve model or some approximated methodology like a convexity adjustment, see for example Brigo and Mercurio (2006).\n\nA customer believes that the six-month LIBOR rate will fall relative to the three-year swap rate for a given currency. To take advantage of this curve steepening, he buys a constant maturity swap paying the six-month LIBOR rate and receiving the three-year swap rate.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2001008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001008", "title": "Luna (TV series)", "text": "Luna (TV series)\n\nLuna was a British children's science fiction TV comedy show produced by Central Television for the ITV network which ran for two series in 1983 and 1984. The first series was recorded at the former ATV studios in Elstree, the second at their Nottingham facility.\n\n\"Luna\" was also the name used by the show's central character, played by Patsy Kensit (1st series) and by Jo Wyatt (2nd series). \"Luna\" was co-written by Colin Prockter and Colin Bennett; Bennett also acted in it. The show was created and produced by Micky Dolenz of the pop group the Monkees. Dolenz said that the idea for \"Luna\" dated back to the late sixties and was based on his daughter Ami; the idea only came into being after he had met Colin Bennett in Hollywood. The character 80H was played by Roy Macready and U2 by Bob Goody.\n\nThe show was about the domestic life of an eccentric family group set in the year 2040 - although in the setting the characters are not in fact biologically related but assigned to shared living quarters by the bureaucracy. Parts of the setting were decidedly dystopic; in the first episode, Luna is threatened with execution for having lost her citizen's identity card.\n\nA distinctive feature of the show was the language of \"techno-talk\", used by all of the characters and described as an alternative version of English that had emerged to make it easier for computers to understand human speech. Techno-talk was characterised by the formation of new words from stems that already existed in regular spoken English. It also had echoes of George Orwell's Newspeak, albeit that it had been created for a different purpose. For example, the characters live in a \"habiviron\" (from \"habitat\" and \"environment\"); similarly, school is \"eduviron\"; a child is a \"diminibeing\" (abbreviated to \"dimini\") and \"regrets!\" and \"gratitudes!\" replace \"sorry\" and \"thank you\".\n\nThe first season was repeated in the weeks immediately prior the broadcast of the second season, but the programme has not been repeated since then. The entire series has not been wiped and still exists in archive, which is unusual for older children's shows in the UK.\n\n\n\n\nMany of the episodes of Luna feature \"techno talk\" versions of classic or music hall songs. These include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2001010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001010", "title": "Grumman F2F", "text": "Grumman F2F\n\nThe Grumman F2F was a single-engine, biplane fighter aircraft with retractable undercarriage, serving as the standard fighter for the United States Navy between 1936 and 1940. It was designed for both carrier- and land-based operations.\n\nGrumman's success with the two-seat FF-1, which was significantly faster than even the single-seat fighters of its time, resulted in a contract for the single-seat XF2F-1. Armed with two .30 caliber (7.62 mm) machine guns above the cowl, the new design also incorporated watertight compartments to reduce weight and improve survivability in the event of a water landing. The prototype first flew on 18 October 1933, equipped with the experimental XR-1534-44 Twin Wasp Junior radial engine, and reached a top speed of at – faster than the FF-1 at the same altitude. Maneuverability also proved superior to the earlier two-seat aircraft.\nThe Navy ordered 54 F2F-1 fighters on 17 May 1934, with the first aircraft delivered 19 January 1935. One additional aircraft (BuNo 9997) was ordered to replace one which crashed on 16 March 1935, bringing the total to 55, with the final F2F-1 delivered on 2 August 1935. The F2F-1 had a relatively long service life for the time, serving in front-line squadrons from 1935 to late 1939, when squadrons began to receive the F3F-3 as a replacement. By September 1940, the F2F had been completely replaced in fighter squadrons and was relegated to training and utility duties. The last F2F-1s were stricken from the list of naval aircraft in early 1943.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2001024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001024", "title": "1929–30 in Swedish football", "text": "1929–30 in Swedish football\n\nThe 1929-30 season in Swedish football, starting August 1929 and ending July 1930:\n\n Sweden: \n\nPrint\n\nOnline\n"}
{"id": "2001037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001037", "title": "Sinus Fidei", "text": "Sinus Fidei\n\nSinus Fidei (Latin \"sinus fideī\" \"Bay of Trust\") is a small basaltic mare feature in the north of Mare Vaporum on the Moon.\n\n"}
{"id": "2001042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001042", "title": "Index of forestry articles", "text": "Index of forestry articles\n\nThis article is the index of forestry topics.\nAfforestation -\nAldo Leopold -\nAnalog forestry -\nAncient woodland -\nAngle gauge -\nAppalachian balds -\nArboriculture -\nArborist -\nForestry in Argentina -\nAssarting\n\nBackpacking (hiking) -\nForestry in Bangladesh -\nBernard Fernow -\nForestry in Bhutan -\nBiltmore Forest School -\nBiltmore stick -\nBiochar -\nBiscuit Fire publication controversy -\nBog-wood -\nBorderline tree -\nBotany -\nBottomland hardwood forest -\nBritish timber trade -\nBuchonia -\nBuffer strip\n\nCaliper -\nCanopy research -\nCanopy walkway -\nCarl A. Schenck -\nCellulosic ethanol -\nCertified wood -\nForestry in Chad -\nCharcoal -\nClearcutting -\nClinometer -\nCODIT -\nCommunity forestry -\nConservation biology -\nCoppicing -\nCork -\nCreosote -\nCultigen -\nCultivar -\nCultblock\n\nDeforestation -\nDeforestation during the Roman period -\nDendrochronology -\nDesertification -\nDiameter tape -\nDrunken trees\n\nEcoforestry -\nEcological succession -\nEcological thinning -\nEcological yield -\nEloise Gerry -\nEnergy forestry -\nForestry in Ethiopia -\nExploration Logging -\nExtended rotation forest\n\nFaustmann's Formula -\nFirewood -\n\"Forbidden Forest\" -\nForest dwellers -\nForest fire -\nForest farming, the ecosystem approach to forest management -\nForest fragmentation -\nForest governance -\nForest history -\nForest interpretation -\nForest management -\nForest policy -\nForest politics -\nForest Principles -\nForest produce -\nForest protection -\nForest ranger -\nForest transition -\nForester -\nForestry -\nForestry education - \nForestry journals\n\nGeorg Ludwig Hartig -\nForestry in Ghana -\nGifford Pinchot -\nGirard form class -\nGirdling -\nGreen Chain\n\nHand compass -\nHardwood timber production -\nHemispherical photography -\nHendre-Dru Tramway -\nHigh forest (woodland) -\nHigh grading -\nHistoric schools of forestry -\nHistorical Logging Switchback Railway in Vychylovka -\nHistory of the New York State College of Forestry -\nFranklin B. Hough -\nHotshot crew -\nHydro axe mulching\n\nIllegal logging -\nIncrement borer -\nIndependent Forest Monitoring -\nForestry in India -\nInterception (water) - \nInternational Society of Tropical Foresters -\nInternational Year of Forests\n\nForestry in Japan -\nJewish National Fund -\nJoint Forest Management -\nJournals\n\nKároly Bund -\nKerry Tramway -\nKrummholz\n\nForestry in Laos -\nLeaf Area Index -\nLimbing -\nLine plot survey -\nLiving stump -\nLog bridge -\nLog bucking -\nLog driver -\nLog scaler -\nLogging -\nLumber -\nLumberjack - \nLumberjack sports -\nLumberjack World Championship\n\nManagement of Pacific Northwest riparian forests -\nMean annual increment -\nMicropropagation -\nMultiple Use - Sustained Yield Act of 1960\n\nNalini Nadkarni -\nNew York State College of Forestry -\nNew Zealand Journal of Forestry -\nNon-timber forest product -\nNorthwest Forest Plan\n\nOld growth forest -\nOptimal rotation age\n\nPacing -\nPaper -\nPatch cut -\nPeriodic annual increment -\nPollarding -\nPruning -\nPulp and paper industry -\nPulp and paper industry in Canada -\nPulp and paper industry in Europe -\nPulp and paper industry in Japan -\nPulp and paper industry in the United States -\nPulpwood\n\nRainforest -\nReducing emissions from deforestation and forest degradation -\nReforestation -\nRelascope -\nResearch institutes -\nRestoration ecology -\nRiparian buffer -\nRobert Marshall -\nRoyal Saxon Academy of Forestry -\nNatural rubber -\nRubber tapper\n\nSakari Pinomäki -\nSalvage logging -\nSawdust -\nSawmill -\nScleroderris canker -\nSecondary forest -\nSelection cutting -\nShelterwood cutting -\nShort rotation coppice -\nShort rotation forestry -\nShredding (tree pruning technique) -\nSilviculture -\nSite index -\nSite tree -\nSlash-and-char -\nHarry A. Slattery -\nSmokejumper -\nSnag -\nSoftwood -\nStand Density Index -\nStand density management diagram -\nStemflow -\nStephen C. Sillett -\nStihl Timbersports Series -\nStump harvesting -\nStumpage -\nSustainable forest management -\nKenneth Dupee Swan\n\nTall oil -\nTall Timbers Research Station and Land Conservancy -\nTar -\nTechnical schools -\nThinning -\nThroughfall -\nTimber -\nTimber rafting -\nTimberjack -\nTimberlands West Coast Limited -\nTown forest -\nTree -\nTree inventory -\nTree preservation order -\nTree shelter -\nTree stump -\nTree taper -\nTreethanol -\nTreeplanting -\nTurpentine - \nTypes of formally designated forests\n\nForestry in Uganda -\nUnited Nations Forum on Forests -\nUniversities and colleges -\nUrban forest -\nUrban forestry -\nUrban reforestation\n\nVariable retention harvesting -\nVeteran tree -\nVolume table\n\nWedge prism -\nWhip (tree) -\nWildfire -\nWindbreak -\nWindthrow -\nWood -\nWood chopping -\nWood fuel -\nWood management -\nWood pellet -\nWood processing -\nWoodchipping in New Zealand -\nWoodland management -\nWoodlot -\nWoodsman -\nTheodore Salisbury Woolsey, Jr. -\nWorld forestry -\nWorld Logging Championship\n\nRaphael Zon\n"}
{"id": "2001048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001048", "title": "AWA Midwest Tag Team Championship", "text": "AWA Midwest Tag Team Championship\n\nThe AWA Midwest Tag Team Championship was a title in the American Wrestling Association from 1967 until 1971. It was for mid-level wrestlers and was mostly defended in the Omaha, Nebraska area.\n\n"}
{"id": "2001051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001051", "title": "'A' You're Adorable", "text": "'A' You're Adorable\n\nA' You're Adorable\" is a popular song with music by Sid Lippman and lyrics by Buddy Kaye and Fred Wise, published in 1948.\n\nThe most well-known version was recorded by Perry Como, with The Fontane Sisters on March 1, 1949. This recording was released on single records as follows:\n\nAnother recording by Jo Stafford and Gordon MacRae was also very popular. The recording was released by Capitol Records. The flip side was \"Need You\". The recording first appeared on the \"Billboard\" charts on March 25, 1949, lasting 13 weeks and peaking at position number 4.\n\nAnother recording by the Tony Pastor orchestra (vocal by The Clooney Sisters) also charted. The recording was released by Columbia Records. The recording first appeared on the \"Billboard\" charts on May 6, 1949, lasting 2 weeks and peaking at position number 12.\n\n\nIn December 1969, the song was performed on Sesame Street by Jack, an Anything Muppet voiced by Jim Henson, to his girlfriend Adrienne, a Muppet voiced by Caroll Spinney. Adrienne is then scared off by Cookie Monster, who demands that Jack return the alphabet blocks he casually threw away during his \"wander through the alphabet with you.\" Cookie eats up the blocks as Jack retrieves them one by one while singing the song again, this time in a harried tone.\n\nThe Kidsongs sing the song on their \"Baby Animal Songs\" video.\n\nThe song formed the basis for a Morecambe and Wise sketch, where Eric Morecambe started with \"A you're adorable, B you're so beautiful\" and then randomly chose letters such as J, Q or Z to fox Ernie Wise.\n\nIn a \"\" DVD extra, Patrick Stewart, as Jean-Luc Picard, sings the song with slightly altered lyrics for creator Gene Roddenberry's Birthday.\n\nIn a 1974 public service announcement on volunteerism, Johnny Hart's \"B.C.\" cartoon characters sing the song with new lyrics featuring the letters A-C-T-I-O-N instead of the whole alphabet.\n\nThe song is referenced in the 2017 film You Were Never Really Here.\n\n"}
{"id": "2001056", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001056", "title": "Ryngold", "text": "Ryngold\n\nRyngold or Ringaudas was a mythological Grand Duke of Lithuania from the Palemonids legends and supposed father of Mindaugas, the first King of Lithuania (1251–1263). In fact there is nothing known about Mindaugas' father from reliable sources. The Livonian Rhymed Chronicle, a contemporary source, just mentions that he was a powerful duke, but does not provide his name.\n\nRyngold, son of otherwise unknown Algimantas, is first mentioned in the second redaction of the Lithuanian Chronicle written c. 1515 and has no historical basis. In the chronicle Ryngold returned to Navahrudak after a victorious battle with the Mongols on the bank of the Neman River at Mohilna near Minsk. This battle could have some historical basis as Mongols did invade Lithuania, but it happened in late 1230s and early 1240s. However, it is known for a fact that at the time Mindaugas already had supreme power in Lithuania. The legendary account claimed that Ryngold fathered three sons. He left Navharudak to one of his sons, Vaišvilkas. However, it is known from reliable contemporary sources that Vaišvilkas was son of Mindaugas. Therefore the third redaction of the Lithuanian Chronicle, also known as the Bychowiec Chronicle, made Ryngold father of Mindaugas to correct this clear contradiction. This legendary version was popularized by Maciej Stryjkowski and other medieval historians, and it still survives to this day. \n\n"}
{"id": "2001058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001058", "title": "Ron Reis", "text": "Ron Reis\n\nRonald Allen Reis (born 1969) is an American professional wrestler. He is best known for his appearances with World Championship Wrestling between 1995 and 1998 under the ring names The Yeti and Reese.\n\nRon Reis is the son of Ron Reis, Sr., who was a member of National Collegiate Athletic Association title-winning basketball teams in 1961 and 1962 while studying at the University of Cincinnati.\n\nReis attended Monta Vista High School in Cupertino, California. He played on the school's basketball team, scoring 2,082 points and competing in the 1987 Central Coast championship. Reis went on to attend Santa Clara University, where he played basketball for four years.\n\nRon Reis was trained by Big John Studd. He made his professional debut on March 12, 1994 for the New England-based International Wrestling Federation under his birth name. In 1995, Reis began performing for the Las Vegas-based National Wrestling Conference as \"SWAT\".\n\nReis debuted in World Championship Wrestling on Monday Nitro, October 23, 1995, as The Yeti - the Dungeon of Doom's so-called \"insurance policy\" for the upcoming WCW World Heavyweight Championship match between Dungeon member The Giant and current champion Hulk Hogan at Halloween Havoc 1995. Initially introduced (supposedly) frozen inside a block of ice, the Yeti soon broke out of the ice to reveal a heavily bandaged appearance reminiscent of a huge mummy and went on to interfere in the Halloween Havoc 1995 main event, where he and The Giant attacked Hulk Hogan with a double-bearhug. Reis wore lifts in his boots at the event and had bandages wrapped high on his head, which gave the effect of The Yeti appearing noticeably taller than The Giant (in reality Reis is only around an inch taller than Wight) and caused an astonished Tony Schiavone to remark \"The Yeti is taller than The Giant!\".\n\nFollowing Halloween Havoc, The Yeti's ring attire was changed to resemble a masked ninja. However Reis only made three more appearances as the character; as an entrant in the 60-man battle royal at World War 3 1995, in a match against Barry Houston on \"WCW Prime\", and in a match against WCW United States Heavyweight Champion One Man Gang on \"WCW Saturday Night\" in January 1996, where Reis' character was renamed The Super Giant Ninja. This would be the final appearance of the character.\n\nReis later became known as Big Ron Studd in 1996, and WCW announcers billed Reis as having taken the surname of his trainer Big John Studd. Bobby Heenan, who had managed John Studd, however, disdained Ron in his column in \"WCW Magazine\". WCW primarily used Studd as an enhancement talent.\n\nOn October 21, 1996 edition of \"Nitro\" he was defeated by Jeff Jarrett.\n\nOn the March 2, 1998 edition of \"Nitro\", Reis joined Raven's Flock as Reese. Raven claimed that Reis' size had made him an outcast from society, leading him to seek acceptance within the Flock. Reis acted as Raven's enforcer, though he was unable to prevent Goldberg defeating Raven for the WCW United States Heavyweight Championship. He also suffered a loss to Juventud Guerrera at the 1998 Great American Bash. Reese's last appearance was on the June 29, 1998 episode of \"Nitro\". Saturn pinned Reese with a Death Valley Driver.\n\nAfter being released, Reis toured Japan as Big Bomb Jones (a take on Big Van Vader) throughout 2002. In 2003, he returned to America and began working for Dusty Rhodes Turnbuckle Championship Wrestling promotion, returning to the Big Ron Studd gimmick. He formed a tag team with Glacier, and they won the TCW Tag Team Championships on January 3, 2004. The titles were vacated later that year.\n\nReis reemerged in Vince Russo's Christian-orientated Ring Of Glory Wrestling promotion in 2005 as the abstract character Evil, losing to Joshua the Carpenter on February 26.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2001060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001060", "title": "Joe Amisano", "text": "Joe Amisano\n\nJoe Amisano (1917–2008) was an American architect, especially known for his work in Atlanta. Born in New York, he graduated from Pratt Institute in 1940 and won a Prix de Rome in 1950. He joined the Atlanta firm that became Toombs, Amisano and Wells in 1954.\n\n"}
{"id": "2001066", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001066", "title": "Queen's Park Oval", "text": "Queen's Park Oval\n\nThe Queen's Park Oval is a sports stadium in Port of Spain, Trinidad and Tobago, used mostly for cricket matches. It opened in 1896. Privately owned by the Queen's Park Cricket Club, it is currently the largest capacity cricket ground in the West Indies with seating for about 20,000.\n\nIt has hosted more Test matches than any other ground in the Caribbean with 60 as of January 2018, and also hosted a number of One-Day International (ODI) matches, including many World Series Cricket games in 1979 and matches of the 2007 Cricket World Cup. The Trinidad and Tobago cricket team play most of their home matches at the ground, and it is the home ground of the Caribbean Premier League team Trinbago Knight Riders.\n\nConsidered by many players, journalists and critics as one of the most picturesque cricket venues, the ground first hosted a Test match in February 1930 when England toured the Caribbean, though it had previously hosted many first class tours as early as the 1897 tour under Lord Hawke. The pavilion dates back to 1896, though there were extensive renovations in the 1950s and in 2007 prior to the World Cup and following an earthquake. The \"Concrete Stand\" was renamed the \"Learie Constantine Stand\" in recognition of that former West Indies cricketer. The first ODI match at the ground was played in March 1983, and the first Twenty20 International in 2009.\n\nAs well as the main cricket stadium, the facility includes a gym, indoor and outdoor cricket practice nets, two squash courts and two outdoor tennis courts. The cricket field has also been used to host several domestic and international football matches, and several music events.\n\nThe Queen's Park Oval Cricket Club leased the Queen's Park Oval in 1896, moving there from its first home at the Queen's Park Savannah, where it had existed since its founding in 1891. The natural soil at the ground prevented turf wickets from being laid down, due to the damage caused by the mole crickets that inhabited it, so when the club moved to its new ground the groundsmen laid a pitch of clay with a wicket made of matting prepared on top. A popular venue due to its capacity (7,000 when first constructed, the highest in the Caribbean) the ground was very profitable for the owning cricket club. The first match recorded by CricketArchive, CricInfo and \"Wisden\" took place on 29 January 1897, between Lord Hawke's touring party and a team put out by the Queen's Park Oval Club. The match, which was a draw but saw the ground's first century—119 by Plum Warner—was not counted as first-class. Only a few days later on February 1 the ground's maiden first-class fixture took place between Trinidad and the same Lord Hawke's XI. The home team won by 137 runs. The two teams met at the Oval again on 5 February, when Trinidad were victorious once more. Arthur Priestley's touring eleven then played a Queen's Park XI on February 12, with the game drawn.\n\nDuring the first decades of the 20th century, the private Queen's Park Oval was a very exclusive cricket ground and club. C. L. R. James records that \"they were for the most part white and often wealthy\" and that \"a black man in the Queen's Park was rare and usually anonymous.\" The Queens Park club was \"the big shot\" of the local cricket on the island, and touring matches were the mainstay of cricket at the ground for the first few years. They also contributed to the growth of cricket on the island, for trial matches were held on weekends while a tour was in progress, and local talent was invited to play. In April 1899, Trinidad played a Barbados-based XI led by Arthur St. Hill, an early domestic West Indian fixture. By 1900, Inter-Colonial Tournament matches were taking place, with the final between Barbados and British Guiana taking place at the Queen's Park Oval. These became more and more frequent in the first decade of the 20th century, along with more tour games against the invitational XIs of Richard Bennett and Lord Brackley. The ground hosted the finals of the 1906 and 1910 Inter-Colonial Tournaments.\n\nIn 1911 and in 1913 the Marylebone Cricket Club (MCC) toured the West Indies, with four matches played in total between the MCC and Trinidad at the Queen's Park Oval across both tours. Then, on 20 February 1913, the MCC played a combined West Indies cricket team, who was playing one of its earliest matches as a representative eleven, and only its fourth against an MCC side. Harry Ince scored 167 in the West Indian first innings, Richard Ollivierre took a five-wicket haul and Joseph Rogers took a six-for as the MCC slid to a heavy defeat. The match was the first between the West Indies and the MCC to have taken place at the Queen's Park Oval. Though cricket was largely interrupted by World War I, normal practice resumed with the ground hosting the Inter-Colonial Tournament finals in 1921, 1925 and 1929.\n\nOn 1 February 1930, the Queen's Park Oval hosted its first Test match. The second Test of the MCC 1929–30 tour of the West Indies saw England under Les Ames defeat the West Indies under Errol Hunte thanks largely to a century by the England captain and a double-century by Patsy Hendren. The ground also hosted the Second Test of the 1935 tour, which started on 24 January. This time the West Indies recorded its first Test match victory at the ground, defeating Bob Wyatt's England by 217 runs. Between the Tests, the ground had also hosted several of the first-class matches of the tour, as well as continuing to host matches of the Inter-Colonial Tournament, including the 1935 and 1937 finals.\n\nThe outbreak of World War II halted Test cricket at the ground after this 1935 tour, however domestic cricket continued. 1939 represented the last year of the Inter-Colonial Tournament, and throughout the war years the Queen's Park Oval hosted several first-class games between Trinidad and either Barbados or British Guiana. International cricket would not return to the ground until 1947 when the MCC returned and played Trinidad twice at the ground in the lead up to the first post-war Test at the Queen's Park Oval on 11 February 1948. England drew with the West Indies—under Clyde Walcott—despite centuries from both West Indian openers. In 1952, the original pavilion was replaced with a two-tier structure as part of an extensive renovation of the ground. In 1953 India toured the West Indies and played the First and Third Tests at the ground. On 17 May 1954, the Oval then hosted England once more and the home team scored 681/8d, which remains the highest team score at the ground. Everton Weekes scored 206 of the runs, the second of two double centuries scored by him at the Oval, following a knock of 207 during the aforementioned tour by India. This was the final match played on the clay surface with matting laid on top. From then on greater effort was made to prepare turf wickets in an attempt to balance batting and bowling at the Oval. More advanced techniques were introduced and a new pitch laid in 1955. Later that year the ground hosted the second Test of an Australian tour. Pakistan came in 1957, followed by England two years later. On 28 January 1960, during the latter tour, England faced the West Indies at the Oval. Batting in front of a 30,000-strong home crowd on the third day, the West Indies fell from 22 for no loss to 98/8. The crowd began to throw bottles onto the pitch, some ran on to the field, and general disorder spread until the game had to be halted. \"Wisden\" called the match one of \"most dramatic Test matches for many years\" and labelled the disorder \"unfortunate\" and \"remarkable\", remarking that the situation \"became so bad that a riot developed.\" Officials of the ground and the West Indies team had to apologise to the MCC, as had the Governor of Trinidad, Eric Williams and Learie Constantine. The match resumed and England went on to victory, and took the series 1:0. India returned to the West Indies 1961 and played two further Tests at the Oval.\n\nThe Beaumont Cup competition was held at the Queen's Park Oval from 1958 onwards, and from 1964 the Regional Four Day Competition also began, with the ground hosting Trinidad home games for both competitions. Australia returned to the ground in 1965 for the Second and Fifth Tests of the tour. The latter saw a heavy West Indian defeat. However, across the series they were victorious 2–1 in what \"Wisden\" called the \"series for the unofficial championship of the world.\" The West Indian first-class domestic tournament, now renamed the Shell Shield, continued at the ground in the winter of 1965. England under Colin Cowdrey returned in January 1968 – and during this match at the Queen's Park Oval a generous declaration by Gary Sobers allowed England to win and level the series—followed by India in 1971. On this tour India were victorious, the first time they had ever been so against the West Indies in the Caribbean. The score of 220 made by Indian Sunil Gavaskar at the Queen's Park Oval during the Test match there remains the highest score made by any player at the ground. Gavaskar would go on to make a total of four centuries at the ground, the most by any player. The bowling analysis of 9/95 by West Indian Jack Noreiga was also made during the same tour and remains the best bowling analysis at the Queen's Park Oval.\nNew Zealand returned that winter, followed by an Australian tour over the winter of 1972–73.\n\nThe West Indian's had begun to experience difficulties in the final years of the 1960s. The Indian defeat had come on the back of defeats away to Australia and England. Though they played well against Australia on the 1972–73 tour, they lost 2:1. In the Fourth Test in Guyana they fell to a 10-wicket defeat after being dismissed for 109 in their second innings. The utilisation of aggressive fast bowlers such as Dennis Lillee and Jeff Thomson had inspired West Indian captain to bring into his team men of similar virtues. In the 1976 Indian tour of the West Indies, the Queen's Park Oval hosted the Second and Third Tests. The West Indians played Andy Roberts and Michael Holding in both games, though India played well enough to draw the first and win the second of these fixtures. Their victory in the second involved a record 406-run fourth innings to chase the West Indies total down.\n\nMeanwhile, in domestic cricket, the Beaumont Cup had been renamed the Texaco Cup, and both it and the Shell Shield continued to feature at the Queen's Park Oval. The first one-day cricket matches had begun in the West Indies, and the Queen's Park Oval hosted its inaugural Gillette Cup match between Trinidad and Tobago and the Windward Islands in February 1976. Several of these games would be hosted at the ground each season.\n\nPakistan toured the West Indies in 1977, by which time the hosts were becoming a major force in world cricket. For the next decade the team would win 40 and lose only six Tests. The Second and Fourth Tests of the 1977 Pakistan tour were both at the Queen's Park Oval, and the West Indians comfortable took the former thanks to 8/29 by pacer Colin Croft, supported by Roberts and Joel Garner. Further success came in 1978 when two Tests against Australia at the ground both saw heavy West Indian victories. The First Test of the series saw Australia routed for 90 in their first innings by Garner, Croft and Roberts and a defeat to the hosts by an innings and 106 runs. A six-wicket-haul by Vanburn Holder in the Fourth Test of the series, also at the Queen's Park Oval, ensured another West Indian victory. With World Series Cricket (WSC) commencing a West Indies tour in 1979, the third \"Supertest\" was held at the Queen's Park Oval. With centuries from Bruce Laird and Greg Chappell, the Australian WSC team secured victory.\n\nIn 1981 the Queen's Park Oval hosted England and saw West Indian victory by an innings, followed by a draw against India in 1982. The first One-Day International at the ground took place between India and the West Indies in March 1983, with the hosts taking a comfortable victory. Australia, New Zealand and England all visited the ground for Test and ODI games during 1985 and 1986, faring poorly. The decade ended with tours by Pakistan and India, mixed with matches from the now entitled Red Stripe Cup, the new name for the West Indian domestic first-class competition.\n\nFollowing a return by Pakistan in 1992, England toured the West Indies over the winter of 1993–94. The teams met March 25 at the Queen's Park Oval and England were reduced to 46 all-out by Curtly Ambrose. It remains the lowest total made in a Test match at the ground, and with 66 wickets Ambrose remains the most successful bowler there.\n\nBy the late 1990s the West Indian team had begun to decline. It was defeated by Australia in a 1994–95 series, the Third Test of which was played at the Queen's Park Oval, as were two of the ODI matches. The ground hosted two Tests of the 1997–98 tour by England, the second of which in February saw the West Indies defeated by England. The West Indian captain during the match, Brian Lara, went on to be the leading run scorer at the Queen's Park Oval in ODI matches, as well as hold record for the highest score made there. The West Indies lost heavily again to Australia at the ground in 1999, by a margin of 312 runs. This, the opening Test of the series, set the tone for a five-nil whitewash of the host team by the visiting Australians. The retirement of Ambrose and Courtney Walsh in 2001 further hampered West Indian efforts, and they were defeated at the Queen's Park Oval by South Africa in March, and India in August 2001. They were likewise defeated in ODI matches at the ground by both sides. The West Indies dropped to eighth in the Test rankings, with another heavy loss at the Queen's Park Oval against England in 2004, amid complaints about the quality of the pitch from England players. The West Indies also suffered at the hands of South Africa during ODI matches played at the ground.\n\nThe West Indies were chosen as hosts for the 2007 Cricket World Cup, with the Queen's Park Oval selected as one of the venues. Renovation work commenced immediately to prepare the ground for the matches. These, however, suffered drawbacks. Labour shortages hampered the efforts of the construction workers. Two new stands at the Queen's Park Oval were constructed for the event. Initially the International Cricket Council expressed concerns that the ground would not be ready in time, with Development Director Don Lockerbie stating that \"the ante had to be upped.\" An earthquake in late February that measured 5.1 on the Richter magnitude scale caused damaged to the fledgling stands. Work which had due to be completed by December 2006 dragged into the spring of the following year, with opening matches of the competition due to start in March. Nevertheless, the new pavilion was unveiled in time for the matches. The ground was celebrated as \"the only venue in the West Indies, and one of four in the world to host more than 50 Test matches and 51 ODIs\" during a ceremony to open the new stands. Once the tournament had gotten underway, several Group B matches were played at the Queen's Park Oval between teams such as Bermuda, India, Bangladesh and Sri Lanka. These matches included a score of 413/5 by India against Bermuda on March 19, which remains the highest total made in an ODI at the Queen's Park Oval. None of the final stage games were played at the ground, with the Super Eight stages all being played at either the Providence Stadium or the Sir Vivian Richards Stadium.\n\nFollowing the end of the World Cup, the Queen's Park Oval has had a sporadic allotment of international cricket. Since 2007 there has been six (6) test matches the most recent of which was the infamous washed out match held in August 2016 against India. That match was notable for the third shortest non-abandoned test ever, with the match being curtailed by a wet outfield which allowed for only twenty two overs to be bowled over the five days despite rain not falling for the majority of the match.\n\nTest matches were not allocated to the ground for 2010, 2011, 2013, 2015 and 2017 which prompted a reaction from Trinidad and Tobago Cricket Association President Azim Bassarath, who stated that \"we in T&T need to have Test matches here so that our young and developing players can get a taste of the best form of the game.\". In 2010 due to the arrest of Christopher \"Dudus\" Coke and subsequent social unrest and deteriorating security situation in Kingston, Jamaica the 1st South Africa/West Indies test match that was initially allotted to Sabina Park was relocated to Trinidad.\n\nIn the years following the 2007 World Cup the Queen's Park Oval has had a sporadic allotment of ODIs, with no matches being played there in 2009, 2012, 2014, 2015 and 2016. The ground last hosted ODIs in June 2017 when two (2) matches against India were played there. In that period of time the ground did host its first Twenty20 International, against England as a one-off match. The hosts defeated England comfortably thanks largely to a score of 59 from 46 balls by Ramnaresh Sarwan, which leaves him to date the highest scorer and most prolific run-maker at the ground in T20 Internationals. The ground hosted another Twenty20 International against Zimbabwe in February 2010 and against India in 2011. No Twenty20 Internationals has been played since.\n\nThe ground hosts domestic First Class, List A and T20 matches, of the Trinidad and Tobago Red Force National Team. With the advent of a new title sponsor for the West Indies domestic 50 over competition, Trinidad and Tobago was chosen as the venue for all matches for a three-year period from 2014 to 2016 and the ground has hosted these matches.\n\nThe formation of the Caribbean Premier League has given the QPO a new tenant - The Trinidad and Tobago Red Steel and the ground has hosted Red Steel league matches in each of the three seasons as well as the semifinals and finals of the 2013 and 2015 editions of the CPL. For the 2016 CPL season the QPO will host home matches for the Trinbago Knight Riders who replaced the Red Steel in the tournament when the ownership changed.\n\nIn preparation for the 2007 World Cup there were significant renovations that took place at the Oval with the provision of several new facilities and buildings, as well as upgrades to existing infrastructure. According to a CricInfo review of the new ground on the eve of the World Cup, it featured a \"library and museum space on the ground floor, as well as a top class health, spa, gymnasium and restaurant facilities, and an entertainment centre with satellite TV and other comforts.\" The ground has a crowd capacity of around 18,000 and day/night cricket is supported by the presence of floodlights, hosted on 6 towers around the ground.\n\nThe structures at the Oval include the \"Learie Constantine Stand\", known in particular for its jovial crowds, the Trini Posse Stand which is located perpendicular to the pitch, the Carib/KFC/RBC Stand, the Brian Lara Pavilion, the latter named for the West Indian batsman, the CL Duprey/Republic Bank stand, the Scotia Bank/BG Stand, the Jeffrey Stollmeyer Stand and the Gerry Gomez Media Centre, the last two of which has been named for former cricketers. There was a structure called the Dos Santos Stand which was demolished in 2012 due to health and safety considerations with it suffering structural decay and weakening steel. No replacement has been constructed, significantly reducing the existing capacity of the stadium.\n\nThe pitch has two ends, the Pavilion End and Media Centre End. The Media Centre End was renamed in 2011 to the Willie Rodriguez End in honour of the former Queen's Park and Trinidad and Tobago player. Natural turf was used in the early years however Mole crickets caused too much damage on the original pitch which was laid directly onto the natural soil, so soon after the ground was purchased a pitch of clay was laid over a wicket made of coir matting. A 1932 study into cricket pitches ruled that clay pitches lacking in calcium carbonate were ideal for cricket play. However, the Queen's Park Oval clay surface was disproportionately suited to batting. A score of 681/8d in 1954, and double-centuries by Everton Weekes in consecutive series during that same year, prompted the laying of a turf wicket in 1955 in an attempt to balance batting and bowling. Five 20-metre-wide and 26-metre-long pitches were dug, each with a depth of one meter.\n\nThe work was supported by a second study in 1962, made in Australia, which argued that such turf wickets were more likely to lead to balanced cricket games. Between the Oval's inaugural Test and January 1954, the overall batting average at the ground was 37.03, and it dropped to 28.07 between the installation of the new pitch and the year 2000. Even the new pitch was, however, according to a 1982 report, \"well known of its peculiar playing characteristics.\" It crumbled during matches, giving more help to spin bowlers. Australian Test bowler Ashley Mallett believed that the new pitch was certainly more helpful to spin bowling, while England captain Nasser Hussain was negative about batting on the pitch during the 2004 England tour in his biography \"Playing With Fire\". In 2012 the pitch was described by the media during the Australian tour as \"slightly damp, tacky appearance\" after rain, and then \"tinder-dry.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAround the exterior walls of the Oval (also known as The Wall Project) are large sized prints of works by artists who paint in different medium, such as oil and watercolor. These prints have been placed on the exterior the walls since around 1985 and display abstract works, cultural and nature inspired scenes. Over time, some of the works which have been displayed have been changed to accommodate either a new artist or a new piece of art.\n\nTo the side of the Nelson Mandela Park which is closest to Serpentine Road are three (3) pieces of art which have been placed there by Digicel after the pieces were selected as the winning pieces of the competition launched to commemorate the 100th anniversary of the founding of the City of Port of Spain.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2001072", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001072", "title": "Verdict of Twelve", "text": "Verdict of Twelve\n\nVerdict of Twelve is a novel by Raymond Postgate first published in 1940 about a trial by jury seen through the eyes of each of the twelve jurors as they listen to the evidence and try to reach a unanimous verdict of either \"Guilty\" or \"Not guilty\". \"Verdict of Twelve\" is set in England in the late 1930s (Hitler, Nazism and in particular anti-Semitism are referred to several times). Up to the final pages of the novel, till after the trial is over, the reader does not know if the defendant—a middle-aged woman charged with murder—is innocent or not.\n\nRosalia van Beer is a widowed, childless woman who comes into money when all the relatives of her late husband unexpectedly die in a plane crash. The only surviving member of the family is her 11-year-old nephew Philip, and van Beer considers herself to be his “natural guardian”. She moves into the house in Devon that was built by her father-in-law and leads a quiet life there with Philip, a sickly child for whom she engages a private tutor. The household is run by an older couple who were devoted to their former employer but who dislike, and cheat on, Rosalia van Beer. It soon turns out that Philip is a difficult child, and that he does not get along with his aunt at all.\n\nThe situation escalates when van Beer takes away Philip's pet rabbit, which he called Sredni Vashtar (the name of a weasel in a Saki short story, which kills a cruel aunt), and gasses it in the kitchen. When, soon afterwards, the boy is taken ill the old country doctor is unable to diagnose his disease correctly, and Philip dies before another physician can be consulted.\n\nWhen poison is found in the boy's vomit the police are alerted. Then Philip's tutor comes forward and tells the police that he saw a newspaper clipping about exactly such a case of poisoning in one of the books in the library. As Rosalia van Beer stands to inherit the family fortune, her motive seems to be obvious, and she is charged with murder.\n\nAt first, when the jury retires to the jury room, about half of them, including the two women, consider the defendant guilty. However, as time progresses, they can all be convinced by the others that there is reasonable doubt that Rosalie van Beer has committed premeditated murder. In the end, their verdict is one of acquittal.\n\nOnly on the way back to her hotel does van Beer tell her barrister and her solicitor what really happened, something she has been aware of all along.\n\nThe ten men and two women who have been picked randomly to do jury service are:\n\n\nPostgate's premise is that of Marx, that “it is not the consciousness of men that determines their existence, but [that] on the contrary their social existence determines their consciousness”. Accordingly, he begins the novel by giving short biographies of each juror in which he describes their individual experiences, their social and financial background, the outlook on life which each of them has acquired over time, and also any possible predisposition to judge others harshly. Postgate presents all these factors to show that they prevent the jurors from considering evidence objectively, and that they will respond to the case emotionally rather than realistically.\n\nThe American TV series \"Playhouse 90\" (series 2, episode 31, 1958) featured a 90-minute version of the story under the name \"Verdict of Three\", focussing on the three jurors who dominate the discussion.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2001079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001079", "title": "Lacus Odii", "text": "Lacus Odii\n\nLacus Odii (Latin \"odiī\", \"Lake of Hate\") is a small lunar mare in the Terra Nivium region on the Moon. It is located at 19.0° N, 7.0° E and is 70 km in diameter.\n"}
{"id": "2001080", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001080", "title": "Johan Peter Falk", "text": "Johan Peter Falk\n\nJohan Peter Falk (26 November 1732 – 31 March 1774) was a Swedish botanist and an apostle of Carl Linnaeus. His first name is sometimes spelled \"Johann\"; his middle name is sometimes spelled \"Pehr\"; and his surname is sometimes spelled \"Falck\".\n\nFalk was born in the parish of Broddetorp in Västergötland, Sweden. He was the son of Peter Falck (1701–1754) and his wife Beata Winge (1706–1771). \nHe studied at the University of Uppsala under Carl Linnaeus as served as a tutor for his son, Carl Linnaeus the Younger. He defended his dissertation in 1762.\n\nFalk traveled to Russia and in 1763 and became Curator for the Cabinet of Natural History in St. Petersburg. In 1765, Falck was appointed Professor in medicine and botany at the Russian Academy of Sciences.\nHe participated in the expedition to the central Russian province of Povolzhye, Siberia, Altay, and Transbaikal (1768–1774) organised by the Prussian scientist Peter Simon Pallas (1741–1811). \nIn 1774, Falk took his own life in Kazan. \nFalk's notes were published in Germany as \"Beyträge zur topgraphischen Kentniß des rußischen Reichs\" (3 volumes, 1785–1786). They were edited by Johann Gottlieb Georgi (1729–1802).\n\n"}
{"id": "2001086", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001086", "title": "Self-authenticating document", "text": "Self-authenticating document\n\nA self-authenticating document, under the law of evidence in the United States, is any document that can be admitted into evidence at a trial without proof being submitted to support the claim that the document is what it appears to be. Several categories of documents are deemed to be self-authenticating:\n\n\nAlthough most U.S. states have evidentiary rules similar to the Federal Rules of Evidence, the California Evidence Code diverges significantly from the FRE in that it does not treat trade inscriptions as self-authenticating. This means that if a defendant does not stipulate to the authenticity and accuracy of a trade inscription, and the plaintiff lacks testimony from percipient witnesses who can establish a complete chain of custody leading back to the defendant, then the plaintiff must use expert testimony to establish the authenticity of the inscription \"and\" to get around the obvious hearsay issue (i.e., to establish, based on common practice within the trade, that the product is what the inscription says it is).\n"}
{"id": "2001088", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001088", "title": "Education in Hungary", "text": "Education in Hungary\n\nEducation in Hungary is predominantly public, run by the Ministry of Human Resources. Preschool kindergarten education is compulsory and provided for all children between three and six years old, after which school attendance is also compulsory until age of sixteen. Primary education usually lasts for eight years. Secondary education includes three traditional types of schools focused on different academic levels: the Gymnasium enrols the most gifted children and prepares students for university studies; the secondary vocational schools for intermediate students lasts four years and the technical school prepares pupils for vocational education and the world of work. The system is partly flexible and bridges exist, graduates from a vocational school can achieve a two years program to have access to vocational higher education for instance. The Trends in International Mathematics and Science Study (TIMSS) rated 13–14-year-old pupils in Hungary among the bests in the world for maths and science.\n\nMost of the Hungarian universities are public institutions, and students traditionally study without fee payment. The general requirement for university is the Matura. The Hungarian public higher education system includes universities and other higher education institutes, that provide both education curricula and related degrees up to doctoral degree and also contribute to research activities. Health insurance for students is free until the end of their studies. English and German language is important in Hungarian higher education, there are a number of degree programs that are taught in these languages, which attracts thousands of exchange students every year. Hungary's higher education and training has been ranked 44 out of 148 countries in the Global competitiveness Report 2014.\n\nToday there are 67 higher education institutions in Hungary, ranging from small colleges to top research universities. These universities and colleges are maintained either by the state, private organizations or a church. In accordance with the objectives of the Bologna process the degree structure of tertiary education is based on three cycles. Nearly all study fields lead first to a Bachelor’s degree (usually 3 years), and after a further study period to a Master’s degree (2 years). However, there are some exceptions: medicine, pharmacy, dental and veterinary studies, architecture, law, teacher training, and certain arts-, crafts- and design-related study programmes, which retain a long single-cycle structure of 5 or 6 years of study. The first-cycle programmes last 6–8 semesters (3–4 years, 180–240 credit points) and lead to a bachelor's degree (in Hungarian: alapfokozat). The second cycle, leading to a master's degree (in Hungarian: mesterfokozat), lasts 2–4 semesters (1–2 years, 60–120 credit points). Two-year-long vocational higher education programmes (in Hungarian: felsőoktatási szakképzés) are also available on an optional basis prior to first-cycle programmes and lead to advanced vocational qualifications. The 120 credit points gained in vocational higher education programmes are compatible for recognition in the first (Bachelor) cycle. Any Bachelor’s or master's degree can be followed by specialised higher education courses (in Hungarian: szakirányú továbbképzés). These do not lead to another degree but offer the option of specialisation in a particular field of study. Courses can be studied full-time, part-time or through distance learning. A four-year doctoral programme is a post-graduate course to follow any Master’s or equivalent qualification.\n\nHungary has a long tradition of higher education reflecting the existence of established knowledge economy. The established universities in Hungary include some of the oldest in the world, the first was the University of Pécs founded in 1367 which is still functioning, although in the year 1276, the university of Veszprém was destroyed by the troops of Peter Csák, but it was never rebuilt. Sigismund established Óbuda University in 1395. Another, Universitas Istropolitana, was established 1465 in Pozsony by Mattias Corvinus.\nNagyszombat University was founded in 1635 and moved to Buda in 1777 and it is called Eötvös Loránd University today. The world's first institute of technology was founded in Selmecbánya, Kingdom of Hungary in 1735, its legal successor is the University of Miskolc. The Budapest University of Technology and Economics is considered the oldest institute of technology in the world with university rank and structure, its legal predecessor the Institutum Geometrico-Hydrotechnicum was founded in 1782 by Emperor Joseph II.\n\nThe decline of Hungary's population that started in 1981 has also continued in recent years. According to the 2001 census, the population of Hungary was 10,198,000, about half a million less than the figure of twenty years earlier. By 2005 the population dropped to 10,077,000. The age pyramid of the Hungarian population is among the most irregular ones in Europe. On 1 January 2005, due to the extremely low number of live births in the preceding years the size of the 0-4-year-old population was smaller than the next age groups of five-year increments up to the age group 60–64. There are major differences in the size of the various generations.\n\nThe official language of instruction is Hungarian, but a number of ethnic and\nnational minorities (e.g. German, Romanian, Slovene, Serb and Croatian) have minority educational institutions with their own languages as first or second language of instruction at primary and secondary level of teaching. According to the 2003 survey, the rate of Romani children in the population entering school education in 2008-2009 is expected to be around 15%.\n\nA special feature of the Hungarian education system is that institutional structures and the structure of educational programmes are not aligned with each other. The system's institutional structure and the presence of programmes allowing early selection show similarities with Central European and ex-socialist countries. The system's content structure, the uniform and general phase of education has extended, and secondary level education may be characterised by increased opportunities for transition. The general phase of education lasts until the age of 18 in Hungary's education system. Participation in secondary education, offering a wide variety of programmes, is fairly high. Within secondary education, the proportion of students studying in programmes leading to a secondary school-leaving certificate and offering transition to tertiary education is around the international average.\n\nThis educational level is considered as a crucially important integrated part of the school\nsystem. It caters for children from 3 to 7 years of age. Since 2015, participation in pre-primary education at this level (kindergarten) is compulsory from age 3 (before 2015 only the final year - beyond age 5 - was compulsory), although exceptions are made for developmental reasons \n\nPublic-sector institutions may only charge for services additional to their basic tasks, including for example extracurricular activities, meals, excursions, etc. Currently, the attendance rate with regard to the age groups 3–5, is just above 86%. The average duration of participation of children aged 3–7 in pre-primary education is just over 3 years (3.3), which is the highest average value in Europe.\nIn Hungary a kindergarten is called an \"óvoda\" ('place for caring'). Children attend kindergarten between the ages of 3–6/7 (they go to school in the year in which they have their 7th birthday). Attendance in kindergarten is compulsory from the age of 3 years, though exceptions are made for developmental reasons. Though kindergartens may include programs in subjects such as foreign languages and music, children spend most of their time playing. In their last year children begin to be prepared to attend elementary school.\n\nMost kindergartens are state-funded. Kindergarten teachers are required to have a diploma.\n\nChildren start primary school when they reach school-maturity, usually in the year in which they have their 6th birthday (7th if they were born after May 31).\n\nPrimary education can last for 4, 6 or 8 years. 8-year education is the most widespread; the other two options were introduced in the early 1990s.\n\nSubjects include literature, grammar, mathematics, music, art, Physical education, environmental studies (from 1st to 5th grade), biology (from 6th grade), geography (from 6th grade), history (from 5th grade), history of art, physics (from 6th grade), chemistry (from 7th grade), one or two foreign languages (usually English, German or French). Before 1990, Russian was compulsory.\n\nSecondary education usually lasts for 4 years. In \"gimnázium\"s it can also last for 5, 6 or 8 years depending on how many years the student spent in primary school. Since 1997 the numbering of years in secondary school are following that of primary school (i. e. after the 8th grade of primary school the student goes to 9th grade, which is actually the 1st year of secondary school.)\n\nThere are three kinds of high schools:\n\nAfter finishing high school, students take a school-leaving exam (Matura or final exam, \"érettségi\" in Hungarian). From 2005 this consists of exams on five subjects: written exam in mathematics, verbal and written exams in \"Hungarian literature and grammar\", a \"foreign language\", \"history\", and written and/or verbal exam in a subject of the \"student's choice\". These exams also serve as an entry exam to universities and colleges.\n\nMany of the \"gimnázium\"s have begun to teach a foreign language intensively (usually 12-14 lessons a week) and IT (usually 3-4 lessons a week) in the first year. This is called \"nyelvi előkészítő évfolyam\", literally \"Language training class\", or simply \"nulladik évfolyam\" (literally \"0th grade\"). After 2005, students will have less foreign language lessons and IT.\n\nAt schools where there is no \"nulladik évfolyam\" (beginners classes), they may be required to introduce them because the majority of Hungarians do not speak more than one language, or only speak their parents' language or dialect. Most students will finish High School at the age of 18 or 19, or when they complete Year 13.\n\nThose who had at least an intermediate level language exam weren't required to pass a language exam at Matura, but has become compulsory since 2006. In language training classes, a student must pass an intermediate level language exam in the second year, and the same level Matura in the third year.\n\nHigher education in Hungary dates back to 1367 when Louis the Great founded the first Hungarian university in the city of Pécs.\n\nHigher education is divided between colleges and universities. College education generally lasts for 4 years, while university education lasts for 4 to 6 years depending on the course undertaken. Vocational curriculum usually last 2 years: they are opened to secondary vocational school's graduates, and eventually vocational school students (after 5 years of work in the desired field or after a two-year program leading to a \"secondary school leaving certificate\"). University PhD courses usually take 3 years to complete.\n\nBefore students get their degree, they must pass an intermediate level language exam in the foreign language of their choice. English and German are the most popular. The number of Spanish-learners has been growing in the last few years. Recently a high number of students chose Esperanto and Romani languages. Both are said to have a relatively small vocabulary and easy grammar.\n\nThis school type (in Hungarian: szakiskola) typically provides general and pre-vocational education in grades 9 and 10, normally followed by three or two years of VET. At the end of their studies, students will acquire a qualification (ISCED 2C or mostly 3C).\n\nHungary attracts foreign students from both EU and non-EU countries. Three quarters of the students arriving in Hungary arrive from just ten countries, while one quarter of the students arrives from another 100 countries. Among the countries sending most students are Germany, Iran, Norway, Israel and Sweden, while the majority of guest students are citizens of the neighbouring countries. In the 2008/2009 academic year, the total number of foreign students studying in Hungary was 16 916, while this number was only 14 491 in 2005/2006. The figures are increasing owing to the following advantages:\n\nStudents interested in continuing their studies in Hungary will find preparatory courses in numerous universities from Debrecen to Budapest, from Budapest to Szeged, from Szeged to Pécs.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2001090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001090", "title": "Glenrio, New Mexico and Texas", "text": "Glenrio, New Mexico and Texas\n\nGlenrio, formerly Rock Island, is an unincorporated community in both Deaf Smith County, Texas, and Quay County, New Mexico, in the United States. Located on the former U.S. Route 66, the ghost town sits on the Texas–New Mexico state line. It includes the Glenrio Historic District which was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 2007.\n\nThe community was founded in 1903 as a railroad siding on the Rock Island Railroad. Its name is derived from Scots \"glen\" + Spanish \"rio\" (meaning \"river\").\n\nOriginally a railroad town, the village was renamed from \"Rock Island\" to \"Glenrio\" by the Rock Island and Pacific Railroad in 1908 and began receiving motorists on the dusty Ozark Trail in 1917. Its original structures were adobe buildings. The circa-1910 Angel House was in New Mexico.\n\nThe Ozark Trail was formed into U.S. Route 66 on November 11, 1926. By the 1930s, U.S. Route 66 in Texas was a paved two-lane road served locally by several filling stations, a restaurant, and a motel. The road was widened in the 1950s. A Texaco station (1950) and a diner (Brownlee Diner/Little Juarez Café, 1952) were constructed in Texas using the art moderne architectural style.\n\nThe location of Glenrio on Texas and New Mexico's border led to some interesting business practices. At one point, all fuel was dispensed in Texas due to New Mexico's higher gasoline taxes. The 1930s State Line Bar and motel were built in New Mexico because Deaf Smith County, Texas, was dry at the time. The railroad station was in Texas. The local post office, built circa-1935, was in New Mexico. A water tank and windmill in New Mexico were constructed circa 1945.\n\nThe Joseph Brownlee House, constructed in Amarillo in 1930, was moved to Glenrio in 1950. Glenrio was the site of the \"First Motel in Texas\" / \"Last Motel in Texas\" (Homer Ehresman's family-run 1953 State Line Café and Gas Station and 1955 Texas Longhorn Motel, closed in 1976) and other businesses which straddled the state line on U.S. Route 66 for many years until Interstate 40 bypassed the community in September 1973.\n\nThree filling stations (the 1925 Broyles Mobil station, a circa-1935 Texaco, and the 1946 Ferguson Gas Station) once operated in New Mexico.\n\nIt went in to decline during 1975 when Interstate 40 had bypassed the town. \n\nFor years there has been a simmering dispute over which state the east part of Glenrio is lawfully a part of: Texas or New Mexico? The straight north-south border between the two states was originally defined as the 103rd meridian, but the 1859 survey that was supposed to mark that boundary mistakenly set the border between too far west of that line, making the current towns of Farwell, Texline and the east part of Glenrio appear to be within the State of Texas. New Mexico's short border with Oklahoma, in contrast, was surveyed on the correct meridian. New Mexico's draft constitution in 1910 stated that the border is on the 103rd meridian as intended. The disputed strip, hundreds of miles long, includes parts of valuable oilfields of the Permian Basin. A bill was passed in the New Mexico Senate to fund and file a lawsuit in the U.S. Supreme Court to recover the strip from Texas, but the bill did not become law. Today, land in the strip is included in Texas land surveys and the land and towns (the east part of Glenrio) for all purposes are taxed and governed by the State of Texas.\n\nGlenrio sits just a few yards to the south of Interstate 40 at Texas exit 0 on Business I-40, a road which turns into a local gravel road at the state line. This was the original Route 66 alignment between Glenrio and San Jon until 1952 and was paved for many years until Quay County removed the paving due to maintenance costs. Mail was formerly served by a post office on the New Mexico side of the town.\n\nThe town consists of the remains of the courtyard motel and related Texas Longhorn Café and Phillips 66 service station, the post office, a few other buildings including the diner and adjacent Texaco service station, the old Route 66 roadbed, and the former roadbed of the Rock Island Railroad, whose tracks were removed in the 1980s. A few homes still exist in Glenrio; the Joseph Brownlee House and an office in the Texas Longhorn Motel were the last to be occupied.\n\nGlenrio Historic District is a historic district that was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 2007. At the time of the listing, the district included 12 contributing buildings and 4 other contributing structures.\n\nOn June 25, 2008, the State of New Mexico opened the Glenrio Welcome Center on Interstate 40 at the Texas state line. The center includes such things as a pet walk, a livestock corral, wireless Internet access, a movie theater, and information kiosks. Built to accommodate one million visitors per year, it includes green features such as recycling of greywater for grounds irrigation, and a wind turbine that will generate 20 percent of the center's energy.\n\nPortions of \"The Grapes of Wrath\" were filmed in Glenrio. An abandoned \"Glenn Rio Motel\" is depicted in the town of Radiator Springs in 2006's animated film \"Cars\", where the architectural design of Glenrio's Little Juarez Café is used for a vacant, abandoned building which eventually becomes the Racing Museum. The opening scene from the movie \"Daylight's End\" (2018) was filmed in Glenrio.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2001101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001101", "title": "James Braddock", "text": "James Braddock\n\nJames Braddock may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2001103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001103", "title": "Jaora", "text": "Jaora\n\nJaora is a city and a municipality in Ratlam district in the Indian state of Madhya Pradesh. Jaora is located in the Malwa region, between Ratlam and Mandsaur. It was the capital of the Jaora princely state of Jaora before Independence. During the Mourning of Muharram, thousands of people from all over the world visit the shrine of Hussain Tekri. Jains visit Jaora as a place that the Jain ascetic Rajendrasuri practiced tapasya.\n\nAs of the 2001 India census, Jaora had a population of 63,736. Males constitute 51% of the population and females 49%. Jaora has an average literacy rate of 62%, higher than the national average of 59.5%: male literacy is 70%, and female literacy is 54%. In Jaora, 16% of the population is under 6 years of age.\n\nThe state was founded by 'Abdu'l Ghafur Muhammad Khan, a Muslim of Afghan descent. He was a cavalry officer serving the Pindari leader Amir Khan. He later served the Holkar Maharaja of Indore, subduing Rajput territories in northern Malwa and annexing their lands. In return for his services, he was granted the title of Nawab in 1808. The state was confirmed by the British government in 1818 by the Treaty of Mandsaur.\n\nThere are two city parks, Chota Baagh and Bada Baagh. The Hussain Tekri shrine on the edge of the town attracts thousands of visitors every year. Notable temples include the 200-year-old Radhakrishna temple, Manchapuran Hanuman temple, Jagnath Mahadev, Bada Mandir (Jain Temple), and Jain Dadawadi (Shree Rajendrasurishwar ji maharasaheb), Rogyadevi mandir, Sujalpur mandir.\n\n\n\nJaora has a railway station on the Indian Railways network between Ratlam - Ajmer section. From Jaora there are direct trains for Ajmer, Udaipur, Agra, Kota, Indore, Ujjain, Ratlam, Neemuch, Mumbai, Vadodara, Ahmedabad.\n\nThe Mhow-Neemuch state highway passes through Jaora. Jaora is 34 km from district HQ Ratlam. Buses provide access to the surrounding area.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2001108", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001108", "title": "Licinia Eudoxia", "text": "Licinia Eudoxia\n\nLicinia Eudoxia (; 422 – c. 493) was a Roman Empress, daughter of Eastern Roman Emperor Theodosius II. Her husbands included the Western Roman Emperors Valentinian III and Petronius Maximus.\n\nEudoxia was born in 422, the daughter of Theodosius II, Eastern Roman Emperor and his consort Aelia Eudocia, a woman of Greek origin. Her only known siblings, Arcadius and Flacilla, predeceased their parents. Their paternal grandparents were Arcadius and Aelia Eudoxia. Their maternal grandfather was Leontius, a sophist from Athens.\n\nThe identity of her maternal grandfather was first given by Socrates of Constantinople. John Malalas later gave a more detailed account of her mother's history. As summarised in The History of the Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire by Edward Gibbon, \"The celebrated Athenais was educated by her father Leontius in the religion and sciences of the Greeks; and so advantageous was the opinion which the Athenian philosopher entertained of his contemporaries, that he divided his patrimony between his two sons, bequeathing to his daughter a small legacy of one hundred pieces of gold, in the lively confidence that her beauty and merit would be a sufficient portion.\n\nThe jealousy and avarice of her brothers soon compelled Athenais to seek a refuge at Constantinople; and, with some hopes, either of justice or favor, to throw herself at the feet of Pulcheria. That sagacious princess listened to her eloquent complaint; and secretly destined the daughter of the philosopher Leontius to have as her husband the emperor of the East, who had now attained the twentieth year of his age. She easily excited the curiosity of her brother, by an interesting picture of the charms of Athenais; large eyes, a well-proportioned nose, a fair complexion, golden locks, a slender person, a graceful demeanor, an understanding improved by study, and a virtue tried by distress.\n\nTheodosius, concealed behind a curtain in the apartment of his sister, was permitted to behold the Athenian virgin: the modest youth immediately declared his pure and honorable love; and the royal nuptials were celebrated amidst the acclamations of the capital and the provinces. Athenais, who was easily persuaded to renounce the errors of Paganism, received at her baptism the Christian name of Eudocia; but the cautious Pulcheria withheld the title of Augusta, till the wife of Theodosius had approved her fruitfulness by the birth of a daughter, who espoused, fifteen years afterwards, the Emperor of the West. The brothers of Eudocia obeyed, with some anxiety, her Imperial summons; but as she could easily forgive their unfortunate unkindness, she indulged the tenderness, or perhaps the vanity, of a sister, by promoting them to the rank of consuls and praefects.\"\n\nLater historians have tended to reject the above account as too reminiscent of a fairy tale or a romance novel to be historically accurate. The exact circumstances of the introduction of Eudocia to Theodosius II and Pulcheria are considered unknown. The historical study \"Theodosian Empresses. Women and Imperial Dominion in Late Antiquity\" (1982) by Kenneth Holum, further introduced the suggestion that Leontius was a native of Antioch rather than Athens, drawing from the \"traditional link\" between the two cities and their philosophers. The argument is considered doubtful as the building activity of Eudocia in the 420s focused on Athens rather than Antioch. The identity of Eudoxia's maternal grandmother is not recorded.\n\nIn 424, Eudoxia was betrothed to Valentinian III, her first cousin, once removed. The year of their betrothal was recorded by Marcellinus Comes. At the time of their betrothal, Valentinian was approximately four years old, Eudoxia only two. Gibbon attributes the betrothal to \"the agreement of the three females who governed the Roman world\", meaning Galla Placidia, her niece Pulcheria, and Pulcheria's sister-in-law Eudocia. Galla Placidia was Valentinian III's mother and a younger, paternal half-sister of Arcadius. Valentinian III was at the time being prepared to claim the throne of the Western Roman Empire, which was held by Joannes. The latter was not a member of the Theodosian dynasty and thus regarded a usurper by the Eastern court. Within 424, Valentinian was proclaimed a Caesar in the Eastern court. The following year, Joannes was defeated and executed. Valentinian replaced him as Augustus of the West.\n\nEudoxia and Valentinian III married on 29 October 437, in Constantinople, their marriage marking the reunion of the two halves of the House of Theodosius. The marriage was recorded by Socrates of Constantinople, the Chronicon Paschale and Marcellinus Comes. In 439, Eudoxia was granted the title of \"Augusta\", with the birth of their first daughter Eudocia. They also had a second daughter, Placidia. The births and eventual fates of the two daughters were recorded by Priscus, Procopius, John Malalas and the Chronicon Paschale.\n\nOn 16 March 455, Valentinian III was killed in the Campus Martius, Rome by Optila and Thraustila. According to the fragmentary chronicle of John of Antioch, a 7th-century monk tentatively identified with John of the Sedre, Syrian Orthodox Patriarch of Antioch from 641 to 648 \"Maximus, failing in both his hopes, was bitterly angry. He summoned Optila and Thraustila, brave Scythians who had campaigned with Aëtius and had been assigned to attend on Valentinian, and talked to them. He gave and received guarantees, put the blame for Aëtius' murder on the Emperor, and urged that the better course would be to take revenge on them. Those who avenged the fallen man, he said, would justly have the greatest blessings. Not many days later, Valentinian rode in the Field of Ares with a few bodyguards and the followers of Optila and Thraustila. When he had dismounted from his horse and proceeded to archery, Optila and his friends attacked him. Optila struck Valentinian on his temple and when turned around to see the striker he dealt him a second blow on the face and felled him, and Thraustila slew Heraclius. Taking the Emperor's diadem and horse, they hastened to Maximus... \"(John of Antioch fr.201.4-5: Gordon trans., pp. 52–53). Heraclius is identified as \"a eunuch who had the greatest influence with the emperor\" and his associate in murdering Aetius.\n\nValentinian had no male descendants and had never designated an heir. Several candidates claimed the throne. Petronius Maximus, who was the highest-ranking of all Roman senators, was among them. A second candidate was Maximianus, son of Domninus. Domninus was a merchant from Egypt who had earned a considerable fortune. Maximianus had served as a domesticus, member of an elite guard unit of the late Roman Empire, under Aetius. Eudoxia promoted her own candidate, in the person of Majorian.\n\nJohn of Antioch reports that Maximus secured his own succession by buying the loyalties of palace officials and the local military. Eudoxia was forced to marry him or face execution. Their marriage secured the connection of Maximus to the Theodosian dynasty. Prosper of Aquitaine reports that Maximus befriended the murderers of Valentinian III instead of punishing them. Both Prosper and Victor of Tonnena place the marriage of Eudoxia to Maximus only days following the death of her first husband, commenting with disapproval that the empress was not given a period to grieve for Valentinian.\n\nJohn of Antioch mentions, but does not name, a previous wife of Maximus. She had reportedly been raped by Valentinian III, an event which the chronicle sees as the reason Maximus turned against his former master. The eventual fate of his first wife is not recorded. She may be presumed to have committed suicide, following the example of Lucretia. Regardless, Maximus arranged the marriage of his son Palladius to his new stepdaughter Eudocia, the daughter of Eudoxia from her first marriage, again to secure a dynastic relation to the Theodosian dynasty.\n\nThe historical study \"\"Fifth-century Gaul: A Crisis of Identity?\"\" (1992) by John Drinkwater\nand Hugh Elton considers it likely that the first wife of Maximus was also a sister to Avitus, his \"magister militum\" (Master of Soldiers). The writers have also suggested that Flavius Magnus was another son of Maximus from his first marriage, considering Flavius Probus to be a grandson. They also argue for placing the marriage of Placidia the Younger to Olybrius at this point, considering it to be the third marriage between a member of the Theodosian dynasty and a member of the extended Anicii family within the same year. They view Olybrius as a third son of Maximus, grandson through him of Anicius Probinus and grand-nephew of Anicius Hermogenianus Olybrius. However, considering the other possible filiation of Flavius Magnus given by Christian Settipani, as well as the lack of the name of Flavius Probus' mother, it can be assumed that he was a grandson of Petronius Maximus but from his mother.\n\nMaximus appointed Avitus as his \"Magister militum praesentalis\" (\"Master of Soldiers in Attendance\") and send him to Toulouse. There Avitus was to try to secure the loyalty of Theodoric II of the Visigoths to the new emperor. However his reign was to prove short. According to the chronicler Malchus, \"Around this time, the empress Eudoxia, the widow of the emperor Valentinian and the daughter of the emperor Theodosius and Eudocia, remained unhappily at Rome and, enraged at the tyrant Maximus because of the murder of her spouse, she summoned the Vandal Gaiseric, king of Africa, against Maximus, who was ruling Rome. He came suddenly to Rome with his forces and captured the city, and having destroyed Maximus and all his forces, he took everything from the palace, even the bronze statues. He even led away as captives surviving senators, accompanied by their wives; along with them he also carried off to Carthage in Africa the empress Eudoxia, who had summoned him; her daughter Placidia, the wife of the patrician Olybrius, who then was staying at Constantinople; and even the maiden Eudocia. After he had returned, Gaiseric gave the younger Eudocia, a maiden, the daughter of the empress Eudoxia, to his son Huneric in marriage, and he held them both, the mother and the daughter, in great honor\" (Chron. 366).\n\nEudoxia was presumably following the example of her sister-in-law Justa Grata Honoria who had summoned Attila the Hun for help against an unwanted marriage. According to Prosper, Maximus was in Rome when the Vandals arrived. He gave anyone who could permission to flee the city. He attempted to flee himself but was assassinated by the imperial slaves. He had reigned for seventy-seven days. His body was thrown into the Tiber and never recovered. Victor of Tonnena agrees, adding the detail that Pope Leo I negotiated with Geiseric for the security of the city's population.\n\nHydatius attributes the assassination to revolting troops of the Roman army, enraged at Maximus' attempted flight. The Chronica Gallica of 511 attributes the assassination to a rioting crowd. Jordanes identifies a single assassin as \"Ursus, a Roman soldier\". Ursus is Latin for \"bear\". Sidonius Apollinaris makes a cryptic comment regarding a Burgundian whose \"traitorous leadership\" led the crowd to panic and to the slaughter of the Emperor. His identity is unknown, persumably a general who failed to face the Vandals for one reason or the other. Later historians have suggested two high-ranking Burgundians as possible candidates, Gondioc and his brother Chilperic. Both joined Theodoric II in invading Hispania later in 455.\n\nThe three women stayed prisoners in Carthage for seven years. In 462, Leo I, Eastern Roman Emperor paid a large ransom for Eudoxia and her daughter Placidia. Eudoxia returned to Constantinople after an absence of twenty-five years, Placidia joining her. Eudocia stayed in Africa and took Huneric as her husband. They were parents to Hilderic, king of the Vandals from 523 to 530.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2001122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001122", "title": "Waterloo Moraine", "text": "Waterloo Moraine\n\nThe Waterloo Moraine is a landform and sediment body that was created as a moraine in the Regional Municipality of Waterloo, in Ontario, Canada. It covers a large portion of the cities of Waterloo and Kitchener and the township of Wilmot, and some parts of the townships of Wellesley and North Dumfries. About 90% of the water supply of the Regional Municipality of Waterloo is derived from groundwater of the Waterloo Moraine aquifer system.\n\nDuring late 1989 and early 1990, groundwater contamination in Elmira forced the Region to shut down some well fields. As a result, new land use management guidelines and water protection measures have been enacted.\n\nThe Waterloo Moraine is the largest of fourteen moraines in the Region, spanning approximately 400 square kilometres. It is an interlobate moraine, consisting primarily of sand and gravel. It contains large aquifers, which discharge into the Grand River and its tributaries and maintain a base water flow rate into that system.\n\nThe Waterloo Moraine was formed as the three ice lobes of the Laurentide Ice Sheet retreated across what is now Waterloo Region from Lake Huron in the west, Georgian Bay in the northeast, Lake Ontario in the east and Lake Erie in the southeast. As the glacier moved, it carried with it huge boulders, sand, gravel and debris. As the ice disappeared, the Waterloo Moraine remained, a huge complex of glacial sediments that is between 30 metres and more than 100 metres thick. Meltwater streams cascading from the surface of the ice lobes carried enormous deposits of sand and gravel and blocks of bedrock.\n\nThe glacial sediments constituting the moraine rest upon the Guelph and Salina carbonate bedrock formations.\n\nThe Waterloo Moraine provides drinking water for over 300,000 people throughout Waterloo Region, and approximately 75% of its potable water. The Waterloo Moraine is currently not protected by provincial legislation although there is an active movement from citizens to see that this takes place.\n\nLouisette Lanteigne and David Wellhauser of Waterloo have used the Environmental Bill of Rights to submit a Request for Review for a Waterloo Moraine Protection Act. This resulted in a 16-month review of source water and groundwater protection for the Waterloo Moraine. The findings will be published in September 2008.\n\nIn the vicinity where the three ice lobes began to retreat, sits the recharge areas that allow surface water to enter back into the ground source. The speed of absorption depends on the density of aquifers and aquitards. Aquifers are made up of sand, gravel and silt where the water filters down relatively quickly. The shallow aquifers feed area bodies of water such as creeks and streams while the deeper aquifers feed down to replenish the ground water. The aquitards are the protective layers of clay that slowly filters the water and act to protect the main source from contamination. Left on its own, it is a naturally renewable way to gather fresh drinking water.\n\nThe moraine covers much of the City of Waterloo, Kitchener, Wellesley, Wilmot and North Dumfries, covering of land. Almost half of the ground water recharge takes place on only 15% of the Grand River watershed and 80% occurs on only 30% of the land mass most of which is located at the west end of Waterloo Region in the townships of Wilmot and Wellesley.\n\nThe ground water travels down from west to east feeding area wells throughout the region. Subdivision developments in the west end would create more impervious surfaces in the vicinity of the recharge area. Instead of allowing the water to refill the source, the run off will be diverted to sewage systems instead. This will mean a permanent decrease in the volume of water entering area wells. The reduction of water in the wells will significantly increase the parts per billion of contaminants in the system jeopardizing the quality of water in the aquifer and increasing the costs of filtration.\n\nIf an increase in traffic follows the development in the vicinity of the aquifer, there will be an increased risk of contamination by road salt which is, according to Environment Canada, a known toxic substance. Road salt is a form of chloride that kills fish and pollutes area creeks and streams.\n\n"}
{"id": "2001125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001125", "title": "Gribov ambiguity", "text": "Gribov ambiguity\n\nIn gauge theory, especially in non-abelian gauge theories, global problems at gauge fixing are often encountered. Gauge fixing means choosing a representative from each gauge orbit, that is, choosing a section of a fiber bundle. The space of representatives is a submanifold (of the bundle as a whole) and represents the gauge fixing condition. Ideally, every gauge orbit will intersect this submanifold once and only once. Unfortunately, this is often impossible globally for non-abelian gauge theories because of topological obstructions and the best that can be done is make this condition true locally. A gauge fixing submanifold may not intersect a gauge orbit at all or it may intersect it more than once. The difficulty arises because the gauge fixing condition is usually specified as a differential equation of some sort, e.g. that a divergence vanish (as in the Landau or Lorenz gauge). The solutions to this equation may end up specifying multiple sections, or perhaps none at all. This is called a Gribov ambiguity (named after Vladimir Gribov).\n\nGribov ambiguities lead to a nonperturbative failure of the BRST symmetry, among other things.\n\nA way to resolve the problem of Gribov ambiguity is to restrict the relevant functional integrals to a single Gribov region whose boundary is called a Gribov horizon.\nStill one can show that this problem is not resolved even when reducing the region to the first Gribov region. The only region for which this ambiguity is resolved is the fundamental modular region (FMR).\n\nWhen doing computations in gauge theories, one usually needs to choose a gauge. Gauge degrees of freedom do not have any direct physical meaning, but they are an artifact of the mathematical description we use to handle the theory in question. In order to obtain physical results, these redundant degrees of freedom need to be discarded in a suitable way\n\nIn Abelian gauge theory (i.e. in QED) it suffices to simply choose a gauge. A popular one is the Lorenz gauge formula_1, which has the advantage of being Lorentz invariant. In non-Abelian gauge theories (such as QCD) the situation is more complicated due to the more complex structure of the non-Abelian gauge group.\n\nThe Faddeev–Popov formalism, developed by Ludvig Faddeev and Victor Popov, provides a way to deal with the gauge choice in non-Abelian theories. This formalism introduces the Faddeev–Popov operator, which is essentially the Jacobian determinant of the transformation necessary to bring the gauge field into the desired gauge. In the so-called Landau gauge formula_2, this operator has the form\nwhere formula_4 is the covariant derivative in the adjoint representation. The determinant of this Faddeev–Popov operator is then introduced into the path integral using ghost fields.\n\nThis formalism, however, assumes that the gauge choice (like formula_2) is unique — i.e. for each physical configuration there exists exactly one formula_6 that corresponds to it and that obeys the gauge condition. In non-Abelian gauge theories of Yang–Mills type, this is not the case for a large class of gauges, though, as was first pointed out by Gribov.\n\nGribov considered the question of, given a certain physical configuration, how many different gauge copies of this configuration obey the Landau gauge condition formula_2. No configurations without any representatives are known. It is perfectly possible, though, for there to be more than one.\n\nConsider two gauge fields formula_6 and formula_9, and assume they both obey the Landau gauge condition. If formula_9 is a gauge copy of formula_6, we would have (assuming they are infinitesimally close to each other):\nfor some function formula_13. If both fields obey the Landau gauge condition, we must have that\nand thus that the Faddeev–Popov operator has at least one zero mode. If the gauge field is infinitesimally small, this operator will not have zero modes. The set of gauge fields where the Faddeev–Popov operator has its first zero mode (when starting from the origin) is called the \"Gribov horizon\". The set of all gauge fields where the Faddeev–Popov operator has no zero modes (meaning this operator is positive definite) is called the \"first Gribov region\" formula_15.\n\nIf gauge fields have gauge copies, these fields will be overcounted in the path integral. In order to counter that overcounting, Gribov argued we should limit the path integral to the first Gribov region. In order to do so, he considered the ghost propagator, which is the vacuum expectation value of the inverse of the Faddeev–Popov operator. If this operator is always positive definite, the ghost propagator cannot have poles — which is called the \"no-pole condition\". In usual perturbation theory (using the usual Faddeev–Popov formalism), the propagator does have a pole, which means we left the first Gribov region and overcounted some configurations.\n\nDeriving a perturbative expression for the ghost propagator, Gribov finds that this no-pole condition leads to a condition of the form\nwith \"N\" the number of colors (which is 3 in QCD), \"g\" the gauge coupling strength, \"V\" the volume of space-time (which goes to infinity in most applications), and \"d\" the number of space-time dimensions (which is 4 in the real world). The functional formula_17 is a shorthand for the expression between the angular brackets. In order to impose this condition, Gribov proposed to introduce a Heaviside step function containing the above into the path integral, in its Fourier representation:\nIn this expression, the parameter formula_19 is called the \"Gribov parameter\". The integration over this Gribov parameter is then performed using the method of steepest descent. This method gives an equation for the Gribov parameter, which is called the gap equation. Plugging the solution to this equation back into the path integral yields a modified gauge theory.\n\nWith the modification stemming from the Gribov parameter, it turns out that the gluon propagator is modified to\nwhere formula_21 is that value of formula_19 that solves the gap equation. The ghost propagator is also modified and, at one-loop order, displays a behavior formula_23.\n\nSeveral years later, Daniel Zwanziger also considered the Gribov problem. He used a different approach. Instead of considering the ghost propagator, he computed the lowest eigenvalue of the Faddeev–Popov operator as a perturbative series in the gluon field. This yielded a certain function, which he called the \"horizon function\", and the vacuum expectation value of this horizon function must be limited to at most one in order to stay within the first Gribov region. This condition can be expressed by introducing the horizon function into the path integral (in a way analogous to how Gribov did the same) and imposing a certain gap equation on the vacuum energy of the resulting theory. This yielded a new path integral with a modified action, which is, however, nonlocal. At leading order, the results are identical to the ones previously found by Gribov.\n\nIn order to more easily deal with the action he found, Zwanziger introduced localizing fields. Once the action had become local, it was possible to prove that the resulting theory is renormalizable — i.e. all infinities generated by loop diagrams can be absorbed by multiplicatively modifying the content (coupling constant, field normalization, Gribov parameter) already present in the theory without needing extra additions.\n\nZwanziger furthermore noted that the resulting gluon propagator does not admit a Källén–Lehmann spectral representation, which signals that the gluon cannot be a physical particle any longer. This is often interpreted as signaling color confinement.\n\nAs the first Gribov region plays a pivotal role in the resolution of the Gribov ambiguity, it has attracted additional attention over the years since Gribov's first paper. The Landau gauge can be defined as being the gauge that extremizes the functional\nA simple extremum (maximum \"or\" minimum) of this functional is the usual Landau gauge. Demanding a minimum (which is equivalent with demanding that the Faddeev–Popov operator be positive) lands one in the first Gribov region.\n\nThis condition still includes relative minima, though. It has been shown that there are still Gribov copies within the first Gribov region that are related to each other by a topologically trivial gauge transformation. The space of gauge functions that absolutely minimize the functional formula_25 defined above is called the \"fundamental modular region\". It is unknown how to restrict the path integral to this region, though.\n\nThe first Gribov region has been shown to be bounded in all directions, such that no arbitrarily large field configurations are taken into account when restricting the path integral to this region. Furthermore, the first Gribov region is convex, and all physical configurations have at least one representative inside it.\n\nIn 2013 it was proven that the two formalisms — Gribov's and Zwanziger's — are equivalent to all orders in perturbation theory.\n\nOne challenge for the Gribov–Zwanziger formalism is that the BRST symmetry is broken. This breaking can be interpreted as dynamical symmetry breaking. The breaking is \"soft\" (i.e. proportional to a parameter with positive mass dimension, in this case the Gribov parameter), such that renormalizability can still be proven. Unitarity is still problematic, however.\n\nFor a long time, lattice simulations seemed to indicate that the modified gluon and ghost propagators proposed by Gribov and Zwanziger were correct. In 2007, however, computers had become sufficiently strong to probe the region of low momenta, where the propagators are most modified, and it turned out that the Gribov–Zwanziger picture is not correct. Instead, the gluon propagator goes to a constant value when the momentum is taken to zero, and the ghost propagator still goes like 1/\"k\" at low momenta. This is the case for both 3 and 4 space-time dimensions. A solution to this discrepancy has been proposed, adding condensates to the Gribov–Zwanziger action.\n\n"}
{"id": "2001129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001129", "title": "Best evidence rule", "text": "Best evidence rule\n\nThe best evidence rule is a legal principle that holds an original of a document as superior evidence. The rule specifies that secondary evidence, such as a copy or facsimile, will be not admissible if an original document exists and can be obtained. The rule has its roots in 18th-century British law.\n\nThe best evidence rule has its origins in the 18th century case \"Omychund v Barker\" (1745) 1 Atk, 21, 49; 26 ER 15, 33. Wherein Lord Harwicke stated that no evidence was admissible unless it was \"the best that the nature of the case will allow\". \n\nAccording to Blackstone's Criminal Practice the best evidence rule in England and Wales as used in earlier centuries \"is now all but defunct\". Lord Denning MR says that \"nowadays we do not confine ourselves to the best evidence. We admit all relevant evidence. The goodness or badness of it goes only to weight and not to admissibility.\"\n\nIn the United States Federal courts the best evidence rule is part of Article X of the Federal Rules of Evidence (Rules 1001-1008). The rule specifies the guidelines under which one of the parties of a court case may request that it be allowed to submit into evidence a copy of the contents of a document, recording or photograph at a trial when the \"original document is not available.\" If the party is able to provide an acceptable reason for the absence of the original then \"secondary evidence\" or copies of the content in the original document can be admitted as evidence. The best evidence rule is only applied in situations in which a party attempts to substantiate a non-original document submitted as evidence during a trial. Admissibility of documents before state court systems may vary.\n\n"}
{"id": "2001135", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001135", "title": "Lacus Doloris", "text": "Lacus Doloris\n\nLacus Doloris (Latin \"dolōris\", \"Lake of Sorrow\") is a small lunar mare located in the Terra Nivium region at 16.8° N, 8.6° E. It is 103 km in diameter.\n"}
{"id": "2001145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001145", "title": "Ergoldsbach", "text": "Ergoldsbach\n\nErgoldsbach is a municipality in Bavaria, about 20 km north of Landshut and 80 km northeast of Munich in Germany.\n\nErgoldsbach is surrounded by many thick forests, in the hill country of the Landshut region, in Lower Bavaria. A protruding point is the Kapellenberg (\"chapel hill\") nearly 500 m (1600 ft.) above sea level. On the top of the wooded hill lies an old chapel. In Ergoldsbach, there is a small brook called Goldbach (from there: Ergoldsbach). Altogether the municipality covers an area of over 57 km² and maintains a road network of 98 km in total length.\n\nThe municipality of Ergoldsbach consists of the additional localities and townships of:\n\nAs well as the settlements of Frauenwies, Haselwies, Kienoden, Reicherstetten, Stocka.\n\nThe first mention of Ergoldsbach in writing dates back to 822. The land belonged to the Landshut \"\" and the District Court of Teisbach in the electorate of Bavaria. At this time, Ergoldsbach had its own market court with a magistrate. Resulting from its location along the Landshut–Regensburg road, it developed through trade with the farming population. In the year 1403 it became a Municipality with Market town rights. Later on, some fires changed the town forever. In 1860 the Erlus brickworks were established, along with the opening of a railway line from Landshut to Geiselhöring, which resulted in an economic boom for the town. After a fire, the Erlus factory relocated its head office to Neufahrn nearby. All that remained in Ergoldsbach was the chimney. In 1913 a hospital was built in Ergoldsbach, which operated until 1977. After this it was used by the Red Cross, until conversion into a nursing home for seniors in 2004.\n\nThe Market town/municipality Ergoldsbach was founded between 1972-1978 by incorporating Prinkofen, Langenhettenbach, Paindlkofen, Kläham and Martinshaun.\n\nIn April 1945, policeman Max Maurer of the SS was delivered with 13 Jewish KZ prisoners, allegedly with the order to shoot them. Maurer took the prisoners to the property of Anna Gnadl, where a day later they were recovered by the American advancement. According to John Weiner, one of the 13, Maurer saved the prisoners' lives. This was recognised in 1997, when Yad Vashem of Israel presented the Righteous among the Nations award.\n\nErgoldsbach is on the Munich–Regensburg railway line and is served by Agilis and Deutsche Bahn. The Bundesstraße 15, an important federal highway, also runs through the town. In the near future a new road with four lanes is planned to reduce the traffic load on the marketplace in the town's center. The town belongs to the water authority of Rottenburg.\n\n In 2007, the area owned by the Stiegler and Ziegler families was developed into a new centre. With the demolition of Fassadenbaus, space was created for a supermarket and car park. In Jellenkofen there is a business park with a total area of 39.000 m². Furthermore, residential building areas are available on the Kapellenberg. A secondary school in the nearby Ergolding, established in 2013, gives the municipality of Ergoldsbach a boost.\n\n\n\n\nIn and around the municipality of Ergoldsbach there are several Freiwillige Feuerwehren (volunteer fire departments):\n\nFF Ergoldsbach; FF Kläham; FF Langenhettenbach; FF Martinshaun; FF Paindlkofen; FF Prinkofen.\n\n\nFirst and foremost, Ergoldsbach is a commuter community. A large proportion of the population travel every day to Landshut, Munich, Dingolfing and Regensburg. In Ergoldsbach itself, is the Erlus corporation among other companies. There a variety of supermarkets, two bakeries with outlets in Neufahrn, Essenbach, Landshut, etc. and other small businesses.\n\nIn Ergoldsbach and its surroundings, there are about 60 fairly large clubs.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2001158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001158", "title": "Stekšys", "text": "Stekšys\n\nStekšys (or Steksė) (other spellings include \"Stakys\", \"Stejkint\", \"Stekintas\", \"Stegikintas\", \"Stegutas\") was a duke of Lithuania, killed in 1214 near Lielvārde during an attack against Livonia. He is one of the earliest mentioned Lithuanian dukes. He succeeded duke Daugirutis, who killed himself while in Livonian captivity in 1213. After these two deaths, Lithuanian raids to the Livonian lands decreased in frequency and historians assume a period of decline in the unification process of the Baltic tribes.\n\nTomas Baranauskas suggests that Daujotas and Vilikaila, dukes mentioned in a 1219 treaty with Halych-Volhynia, were Stekšys' sons.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2001172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001172", "title": "Johann Leopold Theodor Friedrich Zincken", "text": "Johann Leopold Theodor Friedrich Zincken\n\nJulius Leopold Theodor Friedrich Zincken or Zinken also Sommer (15 April 1770 in Braunschweig – 8 February 1856 in Braunschweig) was a German entomologist. He also appears in literature cited as Zinken-Sommers and Zinken gennant Sommers.\n\nHe was co-editor, with Ernst Friedrich Germar of \"Magazin der Entomologie\" Hendel & Son. Halle. also known as \"Germar's Magazine\" in which he wrote many articles and described new species and genera especially in the Tineidae.\n\nZincken's collection was sold on his death. Its subsequent history is unknown.\n\nPartial list\n\n"}
{"id": "2001174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001174", "title": "Franklin Garrett", "text": "Franklin Garrett\n\nFranklin Miller Garrett (September 25, 1906 – March 5, 2000) was the only official historian of Atlanta. His massive \"Atlanta and Environs: A Chronicle of its People and Events\" is a book about the city's history.\n\nA native of Milwaukee, he moved to Atlanta as a boy. He graduated from Boys High School in Atlanta, Georgia. He joined the Atlanta Historical Society in 1927 (a year after it was founded) which is today known as the Atlanta History Center. He served as historian for the Coca-Cola Company for 28 years. After retirement he devoted his full-time efforts to the Atlanta History Center.\n\nHe was married to Frances Steele Garrett, who died in September 2005.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2001181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001181", "title": "Tukang Besi language", "text": "Tukang Besi language\n\nTukang Besi is an Austronesian language spoken in the Tukangbesi Islands in southeast Sulawesi in Indonesia by a quarter million speakers. A Tukang Besi pidgin is used in the area.\nThe northern dialect of Tukang Besi has 25 consonant phonemes and a basic 5-vowel system. It features stress which is usually on the second-to-last syllable. The language has two implosive consonants, which are uncommon in the world's languages. The coronal plosives and have prenasalized counterparts which act as separate phonemes.\n\n"}
{"id": "2001182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001182", "title": "1930–31 in Swedish football", "text": "1930–31 in Swedish football\n\nThe 1930-31 season in Swedish football, starting August 1930 and ending July 1931:\n\n Sweden: \n\nPrint\n\nOnline\n"}
{"id": "2001187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001187", "title": "Lacus Lenitatis", "text": "Lacus Lenitatis\n\nLacus Lenitatis (Latin \"lēnitātis\", for \"Lake of Softness\") is a small lunar mare in the Terra Nivium region on the Moon. It is located at 14.3° N, 12.1° E and is 78 km in diameter.\n\n"}
{"id": "2001190", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001190", "title": "Meriwether Smith", "text": "Meriwether Smith\n\nMeriwether Smith (1730 – January 25, 1790) was an American planter from Essex County, Virginia.\n\nSmith was first elected to the Virginia House of Burgesses in 1770. He was a vocal opponent of the 1765 Stamp Act, and a representative in the revolutionary conventions that replaced the burgesses in 1775 and 1776. He was elected as a delegate to the Continental Congress in 1778, 1779, and 1780, although he did not serve the 1779 term. He was a member of the Virginia House of Delegates from 1776 to 1778 and again in 1781. In 1788 he was a member of the Virginia convention that ratified the U.S. Constitution; an Anti-Federalist, he voted against ratification.\n\nSmith was married twice, first to Alice Lee in 1760 and after her death to Elizabeth Daingerfield in 1769. His son by Alice was George William Smith who was Governor of Virginia from part of 1811. Meriwether died in Essex County, and was buried in a family plot on his plantation, \"Bathurst.\"\n"}
{"id": "2001198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001198", "title": "Field Marshal Montgomery Pipe Band", "text": "Field Marshal Montgomery Pipe Band\n\nThe Field Marshal Montgomery Pipe Band is a World Champion grade one pipe band from Lisburn, Northern Ireland and named in honour of Field Marshal Viscount Montgomery of Alamein.\n\nThe band was founded in 1945 in the townland of Drumalig, a few miles from Carryduff on the outskirts of Belfast. A group of farmer’s sons had decided to form a band and name it after Field Marshal Bernard Montgomery. The youths wrote to Montgomery to ask for permission to use his name, and as well as allowing them to use his name he donated ten shillings to their funds. In the years to follow, the band successfully worked its way through the lower grades, led by its first pipe major Billy Maxwell, who later became band president, and later by Sandy Cumming.\n\nAround 1970 Field Marshal merged with Raffrey Pipe Band to become Freymont, which played in Grade 3, but in 1976 it was decided to reform the band as Field Marshal Montgomery under the leadership of RIcky Newell owing to the balance of players in Freymont. The band achieved promotion to Grade 2 under the Newell's leadership, but in the middle of 1981 Newell left after a disagreement and Richard Parkes became pipe major. Field Marshal was promoted to Grade 1 at the end of 1985, won its first Grade 1 Major Championship at Cowal in 1990, won its first World Championship in 1992, and then won every Major Championship in 1993.\n\nIn the decade 2000-2009, the band won 28 major championships, including four more World Championships and five runners-up awards. In 2004, Pipe Major Richard Parkes suffered a stroke, and the band was led by Alastair Dunn until Richard recovered and led the band to win the last three majors of the season. Richard was awarded an MBE in the 2004 Birthday Honours for services to pipe band music in Northern Ireland.\n\nThe band won the World Championships in 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014, 2016 and 2018, also becoming the first band to win all the Major competitions in a single year more than once after achieving this in 2011 and again in 2013. 2013 was also the first year that the Drum Corps won the world title.\n\n, the band is made up of the Pipe Majors and Sergeant and the Drum Major, as well as twenty-six pipers, twelve drummers, seven members on tenor and bass. The youngest member is 16 and the oldest is 57.\n\n the band has won a total of 67 major championships, namely 15 Scottish Championships, 12 World Championships, 12 Cowal Championships, 12 European Championships,12 British Championships,and 4 United Kingdom Championships. Further, the band has won 25 Ulster Championships, 24 All-Ireland Championships, and gained 14 RSPBA Champion of Champions titles. Since its first Grade 1 prize at a major championship in 1990, the band has never been out of the top six at a major championship, finishing in the prize list in 128 consecutive championship competitions.\n\nThe Field Marshal Montgomery Pipe Band became the last band to win the Cowal Championship and thus Argyll Shield whilst it was still accredited RSPBA Major championship status.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2001199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001199", "title": "Lacus Gaudii", "text": "Lacus Gaudii\n\nLacus Gaudii (Latin \"gaudiī\", \"Lake of Joy\") is a small lunar mare in the Terra Nivium region of the Moon. It is located at 16.3° N, 12.3° E and is 89 km in diameter.\n\n"}
{"id": "2001200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001200", "title": "Lake Lanao", "text": "Lake Lanao\n\nLake Lanao (Maranao: Ranao or Ranaw) is a large ancient lake in the Philippines, located in Lanao del Sur province in the country's southern island of Mindanao. With a surface area of , it is the largest lake in Mindanao, and the second largest lake in the Philippines and counted as one of the 15 ancient lakes in the world. Scholars have been pushing for the lake's inclusion in the UNESCO World Heritage List.\n\nIn 1965, Lake Lanao has been renamed by Republic Act No. 4260 then repealed by Republic Act No. 6434 in 1972. \n\nIn Section 22 of Article XIII of the Republic Act 11054, the exclusion of this lake into the jurisdiction of the Bangsamoro Autonomous Region in Muslim Mindanao, Maranao people demands the inclusion of this lake into the Bangsamoro Organic Law. \n\nThe lake was formed by the tectonic-volcanic damming of a basin between two mountain ranges and the collapse of a large volcano. It has a maximum depth of , and a mean depth of . The basin is shallowest towards the north and gets progressively deeper towards the south.\n\nThe lake is fed by four rivers. Its only outlet is the Agus River, which flows northwest into Iligan Bay via two channels, one over the Maria Cristina Falls and the other over the Tinago Falls. A hydroelectric plant installed on the Lanao Lake and Agus River system generates 70% of the electricity used by the people of Mindanao.\n\nThe lake is a home of myths and legends of the Meranaw tribe. The name \"Meranaw\" was derived from the name of the lake and it means \"the people living around the lake\".\n\nLake Lanao was proclaimed as a watershed reservation in 1992 through \"Presidential Proclamation 971\" to ensure protection of forest cover and water yield for hydropower, irrigation and domestic use.\n\nThe lake is (or was) home to 18 endemic species of cyprinid fish in the genus \"Barbodes\" (most were formerly in \"Puntius\"). It also supports a large number of waterfowl. An investigations in 1992 only managed to locate three of the endemic fish species, and only two (\"Barbodes lindog\" and \"B. tumba\") were located in 2008. It is believed that overfishing, pollution and competition from introduced species caused the extinction of the remaining. In October 2006, a study from the Mindanao State University discovered massive algae contamination in Lake Lanao. Initially, poor sewage and agricultural waste management were seen as the culprit to the contamination. However, the Department of Agriculture and the Bureau of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources stated that soil erosion from indiscriminate logging and extensive land use and farming are the problems that caused the algae contamination. The freshwater crab \"Sundathelphusa wolterecki\" (Parathelphusidae) is endemic to the lake region.\n\nThe 18 endemic cyprinid species of Lake Lanao:\n\nNotes:<br>\n<nowiki>*</nowiki> — Biggest native species in Lake Lanao<br>\n<nowiki>**</nowiki> — Species of high commercial value\n\nA Maranao myth describes the formation of the lake. Long ago, there was a polity known as Mantapoli centered in Lake Lanao. The people of the polity increased in population due to advancements in many fields. Because of the sudden growth in population and power, the equilibrium between Sebangan (east) and Sedpan (west) was broken. This problem soon came to the attention of archangel Diabarail (for Muslim Maranaos or Gabriel for Christian Maranaos). Afterwards, Diabarail went to heaven and told Allah the news. Sohora, the vice of Allah, advised Diabarail to go to seven regions beneath the earth and seven regions in the sky to summon the angels. Sohora also said that when Allah fully establishes the barahana (solar eclipse), they will remove Mantapoli from its location and transfer it into the center of the world. When the angels were summoned and the barahana made, Mantapoli was soon teleported into the earth's center, leaving a vast hole in its former location. The hole eventually filled with water and turned into a deep blue-colored lake. When Diabarail saw the tides of water, he immediately went to heaven to report to Allah. He told Allah that the waters may drown the people. Hearing this, Allah commanded Diabarail to summon the four winds (Angin-Taupan, Angin-Besar, Angin-Darat, and Angin-Sarsar) to blow the excess waters and establish outlets where these waters will flow to. After three trails, the winds succeeded and the Agus river was established.\n\nA \"Meranaw\" is a spoken or language of Maranao people.\n\n"}
{"id": "2001203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001203", "title": "Dwarkanath Kotnis", "text": "Dwarkanath Kotnis\n\nDwarkanath Shantaram Kotnis (Marathi: द्वारकानाथ शांताराम कोटणीस; 10 October 1910 in India – 9 December 1942 in China), also known by his Chinese name Ke Dihua (), was one of the five Indian physicians dispatched to China to provide medical assistance during the Second Sino-Japanese War in 1938. Known for his dedication and perseverance, he has been regarded as an example for Sino-Indian friendship and collaboration.\n\nAlong with the Canadian Dr. Norman Bethune, he continues to be revered by the Chinese people. In April 2005, both their graves were covered completely in flowers donated by the Chinese people during the Qingming Festival, a day used by the Chinese to commemorate their ancestors.\n\nDwarkanath Kotnis was born to a middle class Marathi Deshastha Brahmin family in Solapur, Maharashtra, he had two brothers and five sisters. He studied medicine at the Seth G.S. Medical College of the University of Bombay.\n\nIn 1938, after the Japanese invasion of China, the communist General Zhu De requested Jawaharlal Nehru to send some physicians to China. Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose, the President of the Indian National Congress, made an appeal to the people through a press statement on 30 June 1938. He arranged to send a team of volunteer doctors and an ambulance by collecting a fund of Rs 22,000 on the All-Indian China Day and China Fund days on 7–9 July. Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose also wrote an article in Modern Review on Japan's role in the Far East and denounced the assault on China. The key aspect of this mission was that it was a helping hand from a nation itself struggling for freedom, to another nation also struggling for its freedom. The mission was reinforced with Nehru's visit to China in 1939.\n\nDwarkanath Kotnis, born in a middle class Maharashtrian family from Solapur on 10 October 1910, had then graduated from the Seth G S Medical College, Bombay and was preparing for post-graduation. He asked permission of his family to volunteer for service abroad. Dwarkanath's younger sister Manorama recalls that her brother wanted to travel around the world and practice medicine at different places. She said \"most members of the family knew little about China at that time. We only knew that people used to come and sell Chinese silk,\" While his father Shantaram encouraged young Dwarkanath to venture out, his mother was very sad because he was going that far and worse, in a war zone.\n\nA medical team of five doctors (Drs. M. Atal from Allahabad (who was also the leader of the mission), M. Cholkar from Nagpore, D. Kotnis from Sholapur, B.K. Basu and Debesh Mukherjee from Calcutta) was dispatched as the Indian Medical Mission Team in September 1938. All, except Dr. Kotnis, returned to India safely.\n\nThe team first arrived in China at the port of Hankou, Wuhan. They were then sent to Yan'an, the revolutionary base at the time in 1939, where they were warmly welcomed by Mao Zedong, Zhu De and other top leaders of the Communist Party, as they were the first medical team to come from another Asian country.\n\nThe 28-year-old Doctor came as a part of the five member team and stayed in China for almost 5 years working in mobile clinics to treat wounded soldiers. In 1939, Dr. Kotnis joined the Eighth Route Army (led by Mao Zedong) at the Jin-Cha-Ji border near the Wutai Mountain Area, after his efforts all across the northern China region.\n\nHis job as a battlefront doctor was stressful, where there was always an acute shortage of medicines. In one long-drawn out battle against Japanese troops in 1940, Dr. Kotnis performed operations for up to 72 hours, without getting any sleep. He treated more than 800 wounded soldiers during the battle. He was eventually appointed as the Director of the Dr. Bethune International Peace Hospital named after the famous Canadian surgeon Norman Bethune.\n\nIn 1940, Dr. Kotnis met Guo Qinglan, a nurse at the Bethune Hospital. They first met at the inauguration of Dr. Norman Bethune's tomb and Guo was immediately attracted to the Indian doctor. Kotnis could write and speak Chinese, which amazed her. The couple got married in December 1941. They had a son on 23 August 1942, who was named Yinhua – meaning India (Yin) and China (Hua), at the suggestion of Nie Rongzhen.\n\nDr. Kotnis wrote letters to his family regularly. \"He sounded very happy in the letters. People used to come to thank him for his help. He was telling the good part,\" says Manorama. Every place he went in China, he described it in detail in his letters home. The whole family found them to be great fun because what he described was so different from the life in India.\n\nThe hardship of the stressful job as a front-line doctor finally started to take its toll on him and severely affected his health. Only three months after the birth of Yinhua, epilepsy struck Dr.Kotnis. A series of epileptic seizures killed him on 9 December 1942, leaving behind his widow Guo Qinglan, and the baby son.\n\nDr. Kotnis was buried in the Heroes Courtyard in Nanquan Village. At that time, Mao Zedong mourned his death by observing that \"The army has lost a helping hand, the nation has lost a friend. Let us always bear in mind his internationalist spirit.\"\n\nIt is said that he joined the Communist Party of China on 7 July 1942, just before his death, but could not be verified.\n\nDuring his mission, he was also a lecturer at the Dr. Bethune Hygiene School of the Jinchaji (晉察冀) Military Command, and the first director of the Dr. Bethune International Peace Hospital, Yan'an.\n\nUpon his death in 1942, Mao Zedong mourned his death by observing that:\n\nMadame Sun Yat-sen said, concerning his role in the revolution, that \"His memory belongs not only to your people and ours, but to the noble roll-call of fighters for the freedom and progress of all mankind. The future will honor him even more than the present, because it was for the future that he struggled.\"\n\nThe Martyr's Memorial park in Shijiazhuang city of the Northern Chinese province of Hebei is a famous attraction point. The north and south sides of the park are dedicated to the veterans of the Korean and the Japanese wars. The west side is dedicated to Dr. Norman Bethune, who fought for the Chinese, and the South side to Dr Kotnis. There is a great statue in his honour. A small museum there has a handbook of vocabulary that Kotnis wrote on his passage from India to China; some of the instruments that the surgeons used in their medical fight for life, and various photos of the doctors, some with the Communist Party of China's most influential figures, including Mao.\n\nA memorial of Dwarkanath Shantaram Kotnis is installed in his birthplace in Solapur on 1 January 2012. The memorial, at his old residence, has been built by Solapur Municipal Corporation with efforts of Sushilkumar Shinde, who was Union Power Minister during the installation ceremony. Maharashtra Chief Minister Prithviraj Chavan was present at the function.\n\nIn November 1941, about a year before his death, Kotnis married Guo Qinglan, (, born 15 September 1916 in Fenyang County, Shanxi Province) a nurse at the Bethune International Peace Hospital. Kotnis and Guo had a son on 23 August 1942. At the suggestion of Nie Rongzhen they named the boy \"Yinhua\" combining the Chinese characters for \"Yin\" () for India and \"Hua\" () for China. Yinhua died aged 24 in 1967 shortly before he was to graduate from medical college. His death has been attributed to medical negligence. In 1949, Guo remarried to a Chinese man with whom she had a son and a daughter. Guo Qinglan has been an honoured guest at many high-level diplomatic functions between China and India, such as the banquet Dalian Mayor Bo Xilai hosted for then Indian President K.R. Narayanan in June 2000 and during the visit of then Indian Prime Minister Vajpayee to Beijing in June 2003. In November 2006, she accompanied Chinese President Hu Jintao on a state visit to India. She died on 28 June 2012 at the age of 96 in Dalian, in Northeastern China.\n\n\nBoth China (1982 and 1992) and India (1993) have honoured him with stamps.\n\nThe Chinese government continues to honour his relatives in India during every high-level official trip. His relatives (primarily sisters) were visited in Mumbai by:\n\n\nDwarkanath Kotnis is commemorated together with Dr. Bethune, and Scottish missionary and athlete, Eric Liddell in the Martyrs' Memorial Park (Lieshi Lingyuan) in Shijiazhuang, Hebei province, China. The entire south side of the memorial is dedicated to Dr. Kotnis, where there is a great statue in his honour. A small museum there contains a handbook of vocabulary that Kotnis wrote on his passage from India to China, some of the instruments that the surgeons were forced to use in their medical fight for life, and various photos of the doctors, some with the Communist Party of China's most influential figures, including Mao.\n\nIn 2017, China presented University of Mumbai a restored handwritten condolence note written by Mao Zedong to Dr. Kotnis' family in 1950 upon his death.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2001209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001209", "title": "Ufouria: The Saga", "text": "Ufouria: The Saga\n\nUfouria: The Saga, known in Japan as , is a side scrolling action-adventure video game developed and published by Sunsoft for the Nintendo Entertainment System. It was released in Japan on September 20, 1991, in Europe on November 19, 1992 and in Australia in the same year. It is the first game in the \"Hebereke\" series with almost every \"sequel\" being a completely different style of game. Hebereke is the name of the Japanese version's title character, which is colloquial and roughly translates to 'drunk' or 'untrustworthy'. The game was later rereleased in a two-in-one Sony PlayStation game, \"Memorial Series Sunsoft Vol.5\", which also included \"Rough World\" (known outside Japan as \"Journey to Silius\"). In 2010, \"Ufouria: The Saga\" was rated by the Australian OFLC, implying a future rerelease. It has been confirmed that this game would be released on the Wii Virtual Console in the PAL region on July 2, 2010 and as an import in North America on August 23, 2010.\n\nThe games design is in the style of \"Metroid\" and \"Blaster Master\" where the player traverses an uninterrupted game world collecting items and power-ups enabling the player to reach even more locations, fighting bosses and minibosses. Throughout the game the player locates the main character's three friends who each have unique skills. The game allows the player to switch between the characters at any time to utilise their skills when needed.\n\nThe game sports bright characters and graphics that are typically Japanese in design, done in the style of \"Bomberman\", \"Kirby\" and particularly \"Hello Kitty\".\n\nAs a result of the limited release of English versions of the NES game, it has become quite in demand, and is considered a sought after item by collectors.\n\nBop-Louie and his friends live in a world named \"Ufouria\", The characters stumble upon a crater, into which his friends fall. Bop-Louie climbs in, but suddenly blanks out. He finds out that he must find all three of his other friends, all of which suffer from amnesia and take on Bop-Louie as a threat.\n\nEach time Bop-Louie locates one of his friends, the player must battle them in an attempt to help them regain their memory. Once all four are back together the game revolves around collecting keys to open a gate. Unyo the alien will then battles the player to the death with a giant hovering robot, that looks like him, connected to him.\n\nLong ago, Peace was in their world, now to this day, there's such a big war. The battle is involving around the world, because the space-time is so twisted, The world started to collapse.\n\nAll of the heroes are due to go and fight, They fell to the cleft of time and space. To all who are in grief, he eventually cares, now he decided to begin the adventure from their original home to their world.\n\nSomewhere in this world, The Hero, known as Hebereke, must find his three other colleagues: O-Chan, Sukezaemon, and Jennifer are hiding. So to survive in this weird world, you must find your friends, determine the skills of your team, and all three must venture into this magical world. To fight against an alien mastermind named Unyo!\n\n\"Ufouria\" is the title of the game when released in PAL regions. The game had some alterations;\n\nHebe (Bop-Louie)\n\nO-Chan (Freeon-Leon in Ufouria)\n\nSukezaemon (Shades In Ufouria)\n\nJennifer (Gil in Ufouria)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2001210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001210", "title": "Short-cloaked moth", "text": "Short-cloaked moth\n\nThe short-cloaked moth (\"Nola cucullatella\") is a moth of the family Nolidae. It is distributed through most of Europe. It was collected in 2008 in the greater\nVancouver area of British Columbia (Westham Island). Vancouver is a major shipping port,\nand is the most probable source area of the introduction\n\nThis is a small species (wingspan 15–20 mm) with grey or brown forewings with black basal areas which resemble a short cloak when the moth is at rest. The hindwings are uniform cream or grey. It flies at night in June and July and is attracted to light.\n\nThe slightly hairy larva is reddish-brown with white marks along the back. It feeds on various rosaceous plants including apple, \"Cotoneaster\", hawthorn, pear, \"Prunus\", rowan and whitebeam. The species overwinters as a small larva.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2001221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001221", "title": "Eva Fuka", "text": "Eva Fuka\n\nEva Fuka-Engle (in Czech Eva Fuková, née Eva Podešvová, May 5, 1927 – November 25, 2015) was a Czech American photographer.\n\nFuka was born in May 5, 1927 in Prague, Czechoslovakia. Her father, Frantisek Podesva, was a painter and her mother, Marie, was a writer. Her grandfather was a founder of the daily Czech newspaper \"Lidové noviny\".\n\nIn 1942, she attended the State School of Graphic Arts in Prague under Professor Rudolf Skopec, and later studied at the Academy of Visual Arts, from 1945 to 1950. She married fellow-artist Vladimír Fuka in 1950, and gave birth to her only child, Ivana, in 1951.\n\nIn 1967 she defected with her family to the US. Her first husband died from diabetes in 1977. She married David H Engle in 1986. At the time of her death, Fuka was retired and split her time between New York City, Prague, Paris and the French Alps where she spent her summers.\n\nFuka died on 25 November 2015 at the age of 88.\n\nFuka's artwork is characterized by surreal and melancholic effects, which she achieved by using her environment to create unreal settings with a dreamlike atmosphere. She ranks among the founding figures of Czech photography who introduced different approaches to the practice by taking advantage of her surroundings to attain particular effects between lights and shadows. Her work as a photographer started in 1939, when her father gifted her a Leica. Later on, in 1951, she and her husband became friends with dissident intellectuals Jiří Kolář, Jan Hanč, Kamil Lhoták, Jan Rychlík, Zdeněk Urbánek, and Josef Schwarz.\n\nIn 1963 she published a monograph, an important step in her work as both photographer and woman artist, because photography was still struggling to be recognized in the world of art at the beginning of the sixties. A second monograph was published in 2007, by Torst, after Fuka had two big exhibitions, in 1996 and 2007.\n"}
{"id": "2001230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001230", "title": "Lacus Hiemalis", "text": "Lacus Hiemalis\n\nLacus Hiemalis (Latin \"hiemālis\", \"Lake of Winter\") is a small lunar mare in the Terra Nivium region on the Moon. It is located at 15.0° N, 14.0° E and is 50 km in diameter.\n"}
{"id": "2001231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001231", "title": "Evidence (law)", "text": "Evidence (law)\n\nThe law of evidence, also known as the rules of evidence, encompasses the rules and legal principles that govern the proof of facts in a legal proceeding. These rules determine what evidence must or must not be considered by the trier of fact in reaching its decision. The trier of fact is a judge in bench trials, or the jury in any cases involving a jury. The law of evidence is also concerned with the quantum (amount), quality, and type of proof needed to prevail in litigation. The rules vary depending upon whether the venue is a criminal court, civil court, or family court, and they vary by jurisdiction.\n\nThe quantum of evidence is the amount of evidence needed; the quality of proof is how reliable such evidence should be considered. Important rules that govern admissibility concern hearsay, authentication, relevance, privilege, witnesses, opinions, expert testimony, identification and rules of physical evidence. There are various standards of evidence, standards showing how strong the evidence must be to meet the legal burden of proof in a given situation, ranging from reasonable suspicion to preponderance of the evidence, clear and convincing evidence, or beyond a reasonable doubt.\n\nThere are several types of evidence, depending on the form or source. Evidence governs the use of testimony (e.g., oral or written statements, such as an affidavit), exhibits (e.g., physical objects), documentary material, or demonstrative evidence, which are admissible (i.e., allowed to be considered by the trier of fact, such as jury) in a judicial or administrative proceeding (e.g., a court of law).\n\nWhen a dispute, whether relating to a civil or criminal matter, reaches the court there will always be a number of issues which one party will have to prove in order to persuade the court to find in his or her favour. The law must ensure certain guidelines are set out in order to ensure that evidence presented to the court can be regarded as trustworthy.\n\nThe rules of evidence were developed over several centuries and are based upon the rules from Anglo-American common law brought to the New World by early settlers. The purpose is to be fair to both parties, disallowing the raising of allegations without a basis in provable fact. They are sometimes criticized as a legal technicality, but are an important part of the system for achieving a just result.\n\nPerhaps the most important of the rules of evidence is that, in general, hearsay testimony is inadmissible (although there are many exceptions to this rule). In England and Wales, the Civil Evidence Act 1995, section 1, specifically allows for admission of 'hearsay' evidence; legislation also allows for 'hearsay' evidence to be used in criminal proceedings, which makes it possible for the accuser to induce friends or family to give false evidence in support of their accusations because, normally, it would be rejected by the presiding authority or judge. There are several examples where presiding authorities are not bound by the rules of evidence. These include the military tribunals in the United States and tribunals used in Australia to try health professionals.\n\nIn every jurisdiction based on the English common law tradition, evidence must conform to a number of rules and restrictions to be admissible. Evidence must be relevantthat is, it must be directed at proving or disproving a legal element.\n\nHowever, the relevance of evidence is ordinarily a necessary condition but not a sufficient condition for the admissibility of evidence. For example, relevant evidence may be excluded if it is unfairly prejudicial, confusing, or the relevance or irrelevance of evidence cannot be determined by logical analysis. There is also general agreement that assessment of relevance or irrelevance involves or requires judgements about probabilities or uncertainties. Beyond that, there is little agreement. Many legal scholars and judges agree that ordinary reasoning, or common sense reasoning, plays an important role. There is less agreement about whether or not judgements of relevance or irrelevance are defensible only if the reasoning that supports such judgements is made fully explicit. However, most trial judges would reject any such requirement and would say that some judgements can and must rest partly on unarticulated and unarticulable hunches and intuitions. However, there is general (though implicit) agreement that the relevance of at least some types of expert evidenceparticularly evidence from the hard sciencesrequires particularly rigorous, or in any event more arcane reasoning than is usually needed or expected. There is a general agreement that judgments of relevance are largely within the discretion of the trial courtalthough relevance rulings that lead to the exclusion of evidence are more likely to be reversed on appeal than are relevance rulings that lead to the admission of evidence.\n\nAccording to Rule 401 of the Federal Rules of Evidence (FRE), evidence is relevant if it has the \"tendency to make the existence of any fact that is of consequence to the determination of the action more probable or less probable than it would be without the evidence.\" \n\nFederal Rule 403 allows relevant evidence to be excluded \"if its probative value is substantially outweighed by the danger of unfair prejudice\", if it leads to confusion of the issues, if it is misleading or if it is a waste of time. California Evidence Code section 352 also allows for exclusion to avoid \"substantial danger of undue prejudice.\" For example, evidence that the victim of a car accident was apparently a \"liar, cheater, womanizer, and a man of low morals\" was unduly prejudicial and irrelevant to whether he had a valid product liability claim against the manufacturer of the tires on his van (which had rolled over resulting in severe brain damage).\n\nThe United States has a very complicated system of evidentiary rules; for example, John Wigmore's celebrated treatise on it filled ten volumes. James Bradley Thayer reported in 1898 that even English lawyers were surprised by the complexity of American evidence law, such as its reliance on exceptions to preserve evidentiary objections for appeal.\n\nSome legal experts, notably Stanford legal historian Lawrence Friedman, have argued that the complexity of American evidence law arises from two factors: (1) the right of American defendants to have findings of fact made by a jury in practically all criminal cases as well as many civil cases; and (2) the widespread consensus that tight limitations on the admissibility of evidence are necessary to prevent a jury of untrained laypersons from being swayed by irrelevant distractions. In Professor Friedman's words: \"A trained judge would not need all these rules; and indeed, the law of evidence in systems that lack a jury is short, sweet, and clear.\" However, Friedman's views are characteristic of an earlier generation of legal scholars. The majority of people now reject the formerly-popular proposition that the institution of trial by jury is the main reason for the existence of rules of evidence even in countries such as the United States and Australia; they argue that are at work.\n\nUnder English law, evidence that would otherwise be admissible at trial may be excluded at the discretion of the trial judge if it would be unfair to the defendant to admit it.\n\nEvidence of a confession may be excluded because it was obtained by oppression or because the confession was made in consequence of anything said or done to the defendant that would be likely to make the confession unreliable. In these circumstances, it would be open to the trial judge to exclude the evidence of the confession under Section 78(1) of the Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984 (PACE), or under Section 73 PACE, or under common law, although in practice the confession would be excluded under section 76 PACE.\n\nOther admissible evidence may be excluded, at the discretion of the trial judge under 78 PACE, or at common law, if the judge can be persuaded that having regard to all the circumstances including how the evidence was obtained \"admission of the evidence would have such an adverse effect on the fairness of the proceedings that the court ought not to admit it.\"\n\nIn the United States and other countries, evidence may be excluded from a trial if it is the result of illegal activity by law enforcement, such as a search conducted without a warrant. Such illegal evidence is known as the fruit of the poisonous tree and is normally not permitted at trial.\n\nCertain kinds of evidence, such as documentary evidence, are subject to the requirement that the offeror provide the trial judge with a certain amount of evidence (which need not be much and it need not be very strong) suggesting that the offered item of tangible evidence (e.g., a document, a gun) is what the offeror claims it is. This authentication requirement has import primarily in jury trials. If evidence of authenticity is lacking in a bench trial, the trial judge will simply dismiss the evidence as unpersuasive or irrelevant. Other kinds of evidence can be self-authenticating and require nothing to prove that the item is tangible evidence. Examples of self-authenticating evidence includes signed and certified public documents, newspapers, and acknowledged documents.\n\nIn systems of proof based on the English common law tradition, almost all evidence must be sponsored by a witness, who has sworn or solemnly affirmed to tell the truth. The bulk of the law of evidence regulates the types of evidence that may be sought from witnesses and the manner in which the interrogation of witnesses is conducted such as during direct examination and cross-examination of witnesses. Other types of evidentiary rules specify the standards of persuasion (e.g., proof beyond a reasonable doubt) that a trier of fact—whether judge or jury—must apply when it assesses evidence.\n\nToday all persons are presumed to be qualified to serve as witnesses in trials and other legal proceedings, and all persons are also presumed to have a legal obligation to serve as witnesses if their testimony is sought. However, legal rules sometimes exempt people from the obligation to give evidence and legal rules disqualify people from serving as witnesses under some circumstances.\n\nPrivilege rules give the holder of the privilege a right to prevent a witness from giving testimony. These privileges are ordinarily (but not always) designed to protect socially valued types of confidential communications. Some of the privileges that are often recognized in various U.S. jurisdictions are spousal privilege, attorney–client privilege, doctor–patient privilege, state secrets privilege, and clergy–penitent privilege. A variety of additional privileges are recognized in different jurisdictions, but the list of recognized privileges varies from jurisdiction to jurisdiction; for example, some jurisdictions recognize a social worker–client privilege and other jurisdictions do not.\n\nWitness competence rules are legal rules that specify circumstances under which persons are ineligible to serve as witnesses. For example, neither a judge nor a juror is competent to testify in a trial in which the judge or the juror serves in that capacity; and in jurisdictions with a dead man statute, a person is deemed not competent to testify as to statements of or transactions with a deceased opposing party.\n\nOften, a Government or Parliamentary Act will govern the rules affecting the giving of evidence by witnesses in court. An example is the \"Evidence Act (NSW)\" 1995 which sets out the procedures for witnesses to follow in New South Wales, Australia.\n\nHearsay is one of the largest and most complex areas of the law of evidence in common-law jurisdictions. The default rule is that hearsay evidence is inadmissible. Hearsay is an out of court statement offered to prove the truth of the matter asserted. A party is offering a statement to prove the truth of the matter asserted if the party is trying to prove that the assertion made by the declarant (the maker of the out-of-trial statement) is true. For example, prior to trial Bob says, \"Jane went to the store.\" If the party offering this statement as evidence at trial is trying to prove that Jane actually went to the store, the statement is being offered to prove the truth of the matter asserted. However, at both common law and under evidence codifications such as the Federal Rules of Evidence, there are dozens of exemptions from and exceptions to the hearsay rule.\n\nDirect evidence is any evidence that directly proves or disproves a fact. The most well-known type of direct evidence is a testimony from an eyewitness. In eye-witness testimonies the witness states exactly what they experienced, saw, or heard. Direct evidence may also be found in the form of documents. In cases that involve a breach of contract, the contract itself would be considered direct evidence as it can directly prove or disprove that there was breach of contract. Circumstantial evidence, however, is evidence that does not point directly to a fact and requires an inference in order to prove that fact.\n\nA common example of the distinction between direct and circumstantial evidence involves a person who comes into a building, when it may be raining. If the person declares, \"It's raining outside\", that statement is direct evidence that it is raining. If the person is carrying a wet umbrella, and he is wearing a wet rain coat, those observations are circumstantial evidence that it is raining outside.\n\nDifferent types of proceedings require parties to meet different burdens of proof, the typical examples being beyond a reasonable doubt, clear and convincing evidence, and preponderance of the evidence. Many jurisdictions have burden-shifting provisions, which require that if one party produces evidence tending to prove a certain point, the burden shifts to the other party to produce superior evidence tending to disprove it.\n\nOne special category of information in this area includes things of which the court may take judicial notice. This category covers matters that are so well known that the court may deem them proved without the introduction of \"any\" evidence. For example, if a defendant is alleged to have illegally transported goods across a state line by driving them from Boston to Los Angeles, the court may take judicial notice of the fact that it is impossible to drive from Boston to Los Angeles without crossing a number of state lines. In a civil case, where the court takes judicial notice of the fact, that fact is deemed conclusively proved. In a criminal case, however, the defense may always submit evidence to rebut a point for which judicial notice has been taken.\n\nSome rules that affect the admissibility of evidence are nonetheless considered to belong to other areas of law. These include the exclusionary rule of criminal procedure, which prohibits the admission in a criminal trial of evidence gained by unconstitutional means, and the parol evidence rule of contract law, which prohibits the admission of extrinsic evidence of the contents of a written contract.\n\nIn countries that follow the civil law system, evidence is normally studied as a branch of procedural law.\n\nAll American law schools offer a course in evidence, and most require the subject either as a first year class, or as an upper-level class, or as a prerequisite to later courses. Furthermore, evidence is heavily tested on the Multistate Bar Examination (MBE) - approximately one-sixth of the questions asked in that test will be in the area of evidence. The MBE predominantly tests evidence under the Federal Rules of Evidence, giving little attention to matters on which the law of different states is likely to be inconsistent.\n\nActs that conceal, corrupt, or destroy evidence can be considered spoliation of evidence and/or tampering with evidence. Spoliation is usually the civil-law/due-process variant, may involve intent or negligence, may affect the outcome of a case in which the evidence is material, and may or may not result in criminal prosecution. Tampering is usually the criminal law variant in which a person alters, conceals, falsifies, or destroys evidence to interfere with a law-enforcement, governmental, or regulatory investigation, and is usually defined as a crime. Parallel construction is the creation of an untruthful, but plausible, explanation for how the evidence came to be held, which hides its true origins, either to protect sources and methods used, or to avoid the evidence being excluded as unlawfully obtained. Depending on the circumstances, acts to conceal or destroy evidence or misrepresent its true origins might be considered both tampering and spoliation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2001233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001233", "title": "Dennis Lee (author)", "text": "Dennis Lee (author)\n\nDennis Beynon Lee OC (born August 31, 1939) is a Canadian poet, teacher, editor, and critic born in Toronto, Ontario. He is also a children's writer, well known for his book of children's rhymes, \"Alligator Pie\".\n\nAfter attending high school at the University of Toronto Schools, Lee received bachelor's and master's degrees in English from the University of Toronto, where he coauthored articles in Acta Victoriana with Margaret Atwood. He taught English at the University's Victoria College from 1963 until 1967, at which time he became 'resource person' for Rochdale College.\n\nAlso in 1967, Lee co-founded House of Anansi Press with Dave Godfrey, and served as its editorial director until 1972. From 1974 to 1979 he was a consulting editor for Macmillan of Canada.\n\nHe was a writer in residence at Trent University in 1975, and at the University of Toronto in 1978-1979.\n\nHe is married to Susan Perly, a writer and former Canadian Broadcasting Corporation journalist.\n\nIn 1967 House of Anansi published Lee's first book of poetry, \"Kingdom of Absence\", \"a sequence of 43 sonnet variations.\" Lee followed that up the next year with a long meditative poem, \"Civil Elegies\". (\"Civil Elegies and Other Poems\", a revised version of that work collected with some newer poetry, won Lee the Governor General's Award in 1972.) \n\nLee began writing for children as part of his goal of \"Reclaiming language and liberating imagination\"; his poems are about the language and activities of the daily lives of children, expanded into the realm of imaginary play and fantasy. His best known work is the rhymed \"Alligator Pie\" (1974).\n\nLee wrote the lyrics to the theme song of the 1980s television show \"Fraggle Rock\" and, with composer Philip Balsam, many of the other songs for that show. A number of the songs were released on the albums \"Fraggle Rock: Music and Magic\", in 1993, and \"Jim Henson's Muppets present Fraggle Rock\", in 1984. The second album was nominated for a Grammy Award, which it won jointly with Shel Silverstein's \"Where the Sidewalk Ends\". Balsam and Lee also wrote the songs for the television special \"The Tale of the Bunny Picnic\". Lee is co-writer of the story for the film \"Labyrinth\".\n\n\"On the adult level,\" says \"The Canadian Encyclopedia\", \"roots and play (including lovemaking) are further explored in Part I of \"he Gods\" (1979). Part 2, \"The Death of Harold Ladoo\" (1976), is an elegy for Lee's friend, a writer murdered in 1973... The poem also meditates on the roles of mystical epiphanies and of artistic creation in its attempts to come to term with the problems of the contemporary world.\" \n\nLee is also the co-editor of \"The University Game\" (1968, with H. Edelman), \"in which he calls for freedom from inhibiting educational institutions\" a la Rochdale; and the author of \"Savage Fields: An Essay in Literature and Cosmology\" (1977), which \"explores the interrelationship between 'earth' and 'world'—i.e. nature and civilization, or instinct and consciousness—all with particular application to a critical analysis of works by Michael Ondaatje and Leonard Cohen.\" \n\nAlasdair Gray adapted a line from Lee's poem Civil Elegies into 'Work as if you live in the early days of a better nation' into a slogan Gray has become known by, inscribed on Scottish Parliament's Canongate Wall.\n\nIn addition to his 1972 Governor General's Award, Lee twice won the CACL Bronze Medal for a children's book: in 1974 for \"Alligator Pie\", and in 1977 for \"Garbage Delight\". He also won the Vicky Metcalf Award, for body of work for children, in 1986, and the Mr. Christie's Book Award (\"for The Ice Cream Store\") in 1991.\n\nIn 1993, Lee was made an Officer of the Order of Canada. In 1995 he received an honorary doctorate from Trent University, and won a Toronto Arts Award for Lifetime Achievement.\n\nIn 2001 Lee became Toronto's first Poet Laureate, serving in that position until 2004.\n\nIn 2009, Lee received an honorary doctorate from Victoria College in the University of Toronto.\n\n\"William Lyon Mackenzie King,\"\n\"He sat in the middle and played with string,\"\n\"He loved his mother like anything,\"\n\"William Lyon Mackenzie King.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "2001237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001237", "title": "Wayne Robson", "text": "Wayne Robson\n\nWayne Robson (April 29, 1946 – April 4, 2011) was a Canadian television, stage, voice and film actor known for playing the part of Mike Hamar, an ex-convict and sometime thief, on the Canadian sitcom \"The Red Green Show\" from 1993 to 2006, as well as in the 2002 film \"Duct Tape Forever\".\n\nRobson was also known as the escape artist character Rennes, \"the Wren\", from the 1997 science fiction film \"Cube\".\n\nRobson was born in Vancouver, British Columbia. He began his acting career on stage there, but moved with his family to Toronto, Ontario, where he continued stage acting and appeared in Canadian television commercials in the 1970s. After receiving several small character roles in films such as \"McCabe & Mrs. Miller\" (1971) and \"Popeye\" (1980), Robson starred in the 1984 film \"The Grey Fox\" for which he was nominated for a Genie Award for Best Supporting Actor.\n\nRobson voiced Bloom in the cartoon \"Pippi Longstocking\" and Matthew Cuthbert in \"\". He also voiced Professor Cuthbert Calculus on \"The Adventures of Tintin\" between 1991 and 1992, and voiced Melvin Fish in the animated series \"Bob and Margaret\". Robson played minor characters in such films as \"Finders Keepers\" (1984), \"One Magic Christmas\" (1985), \"Parents\" (1989), Frank on \"The Rescuers Down Under\" (1990), \"Double, Double, Toil and Trouble\" (1993), \"Dolores Claiborne\" (1995), \"Two If by Sea\" (1996), \"Cube\" (1997), \"Wrong Turn\" (2003), \"Welcome to Mooseport\" (2004), \"The Incredible Hulk\" (2008), and \"Survival of the Dead\" (2009).\n\nHe appeared as Christie in the TV movie \"The Diviners\" (1993) based on the Governor General's Award-winning novel by Margaret Laurence, and as Holly Hunter's ailing father, Tug Jones, in the TV movie \"Harlan County War\" (2000). Robson was nominated and won several Gemini Awards. He appeared in TV series and miniseries \"The New Twilight Zone\", \"The Good Germany\", \"Puppets Who Kill\", \"Relic Hunter\", and \"Lexx\".\n\nRobson died while in rehearsals for \"The Grapes of Wrath\" at the Stratford Festival in Stratford, Ontario, Canada on April 4, 2011 from a heart attack, a few weeks before his 65th birthday.\n\nHis son, Louis McKeen Robson (b. 1991), who did a part on \"The Red Green Show\" with his father, died on December 25, 2016, aged 25.\n\n"}
{"id": "2001239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001239", "title": "New York, Newfoundland and London Telegraph Company", "text": "New York, Newfoundland and London Telegraph Company\n\nThe New York, Newfoundland & London Telegraph Company was a company in a series of conglomerations of several companies that eventually laid the first Trans-Atlantic cable.\n\nIn 1854 British engineer Charles Bright met an American, Cyrus Field, who had a dream of completing a submarine cable connection between North America and Europe. The New York, Newfoundland and London Telegraph Company was founded in 1852 and in 1854 Charles Bright and John Watkins Brett became additional signatories along with Cyrus Field. This was to make sure that Britain had a representative on the company's board and so enable support for a trans-Atlantic cable from the British. In 1855 Charles Bright finished a survey of the Irish coast and came to the conclusion that Valentia Island, on the south coast of Ireland, was best possible location and was also the closest point to North America. Armed with this location and the information that Cyrus Field gathered from a US Navy oceanographic seabed survey, that had taken place the year before, the project got underway.\n\n"}
{"id": "2001242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001242", "title": "Buffalo Commons", "text": "Buffalo Commons\n\nThe Buffalo Commons is a conceptual proposal to create a vast nature preserve by returning of the drier portion of the Great Plains to native prairie, and by reintroducing the American bison (\"buffalo\"), that once grazed the shortgrass prairie. The proposal would affect ten states: Montana, Wyoming, Colorado, Oklahoma, New Mexico, Texas, North Dakota, South Dakota, Nebraska, and Kansas.\n\nThe proposal originated with Frank J. Popper and Deborah Popper, who argued in a 1987 essay that the current use of the drier parts of the plains is not sustainable. The authors viewed the historic European-American settlement of the Plains States as hampered by lack of understanding of the ecology and an example of the \"Tragedy of the Commons\". Many people in potentially affected states resisted the concept during the 1990s.\n\nThe Poppers note that periodic disasters such as the Dust Bowl and continuing significant population loss over the last 80 years show the area is not sustainable for large-scale farming. They note that the rural Plains has lost a third of its population since 1920. Several hundred thousand square miles of the Great Plains have fewer than 6 persons per square mile. This was the population density standard of settlement which historian Frederick Jackson Turner used in his \"Frontier Thesis\" to declare the American Frontier \"closed\" in 1893. Large areas have fewer than 2 persons per square mile. The Poppers demonstrated that the number of \"frontier counties\" increased by 14 between 1980 and 2000, mostly on the Plains, and noted that there are more than 6,000 ghost towns in the state of Kansas alone (according to Kansas historian Daniel Fitzgerald). They claim that the decline in population on the plains is accelerating.\n\nThe Poppers propose that a significant portion of the region be gradually shifted from farming and ranching use. They envision an area of native grassland, of perhaps 10 or 20 million acres (40,000 or 80,000 km²) in size. One way to achieve this would be through voluntary contracts between the Forest Service and Plains farmers and ranchers, in which owners would be paid the value of what they would have cultivated over the next 15 years. In the meantime, they would be required to plant and reestablish native Shortgrass prairie grasses and forbs, according to a Forest Service-approved program. At the end of the period, the Forest Service would purchase their holdings, while granting owners a homestead. Since their initial article in 1987, the Poppers have acknowledged that many other parties have very important roles to play. They do not see the federal government as central as they first did.\n\nThe proposal attracted some public attention, particularly since several Plains states and Native Americans on their reservations had already started reintroduction of bison. Many Plains residents intensely criticized the concept, especially in the first years. They point out that much of rural flight is due to mechanization of agriculture, wherefore fewer people are needed to produce the same amount (or more) of agriculture output, not because farms are failing. Proponents answer that the criticism is based on a misunderstood assumption that the plan would be coercive rather than voluntary.\n\nGiven the pace of rural depopulation, many scholars believe that aspects of the proposal are likely to happen with or without national government involvement. States, non-profit community development groups, and Native American nations have found the concept supports some of their own ideas about the future. Some are working independently or partnering on related ecological and sustainability issues. In the last decade, as the Poppers talk about the concept, they acknowledge there are many players. They have seen many partnerships come about, including private and non-governmental initiatives.\n\nThe Poppers draw parallels between the Plains and Northern New England, which had agricultural depopulation following the opening of transportation to the West in the 1830s. In New England, the dominant forests have returned, taking over former areas of agricultural cultivation which were abandoned.\n\nNorth Dakota's 2000 economic roadmap noted the Buffalo Commons idea was \"vilified\", but had elements that could be of use to the state. The report suggested the concept could increase revenues from tourism. This was just one among many economic development avenues suggested in the report.\n\nThe only population that has increased on the plains is that of various Native American nations. Some of these have started to raise bison, in part for tourism and ecological value, as well as its primary place in their traditional cultures. In 1992 Native American tribes started the InterTribal Bison Cooperative. The consortium now includes 57 Native American governments in 19 states. It trains Indian buffalo producers and tribal land managers, and takes other steps to reinvigorate buffalo's historically central place in their cultures. The buffalo count on Indian land has at least tripled since 1992. As of 2009, the tribes collectively managed 15,000 bison. Non-profits and private owners have also been raising bison; by 2001, the number of bison on the Plains had increased to a total of 300,000.\n\nAs of 2009, the high plains population continued to decline, local economies continued to shrink, and the region's major water resource, the Ogallala Aquifer, had shrunk more quickly than had been expected. Public perceptions of the concept of the Buffalo Commons have begun to change. In November 2009 \"The Kansas City Star\" published an editorial that claimed the aquifer was almost depleted and noted the biggest asset of the high plains was its prairie. It supported the creation of a million-acre (4,000 km²) Buffalo Commons National Park in western Kansas. The editorial suggested such a park could satisfy several goals:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2001250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001250", "title": "There's No Business Like Show Business (film)", "text": "There's No Business Like Show Business (film)\n\nIrving Berlin's There's No Business Like Show Business is a 1954 20th Century-Fox musical-comedy-drama film directed by Walter Lang. It stars an ensemble cast, consisting of Ethel Merman, Dan Dailey, Donald O'Connor, Mitzi Gaynor, Marilyn Monroe, Johnnie Ray, and Hugh O'Brian. \n\nThe title is borrowed from the famous song in the stage musical (and MGM film) \"Annie Get Your Gun\". The screenplay was written by Phoebe Ephron and Henry Ephron, based on a story by Lamar Trotti; and the movie was Fox's first musical in CinemaScope and DeLuxe Color.\n\nDonald O'Connor later called the film the best picture he ever made.\n\nThe story opens in 1919 and chronicles the ups and downs in the careers of Terence and Molly Donahue, a husband-and-wife vaudeville team. Throughout the years, the Donahues reconcile a stable family life with professional success. Their children, Steve, Katy, and Tim, join the act one by one, and they eventually become known as The Five Donahues. But as the children mature, they answer other callings. Steve, for example, enrolls in a Catholic seminary for training as a priest. Later, Tim falls in love with a successful performer, Vicky Parker, and he and sister Katy consent to join her act as supporting players. But Tim and Vicky experience a falling out, and he abandons the act. Despite efforts by the family to locate him, Tim's whereabouts remain a mystery.\n\nMeanwhile, Katy begins dating Charlie Gibbs, the show's tall and spare lyricist, and they are eventually married -- in a ceremony ministered by Steve who has just been ordained a priest. Thus, the Five Donahues are no more, until\nmonths later at a benefit on the closing night of the famed Hippodrome Theatre in New York. As Molly sings the film's title song for the sellout crowd, Steve arrives backstage unexpectedly, followed by Tim, in the uniform of a U.S. sailor. There, he reconciles with Vicky and his family. And for the first time in years, the Five Donahues reunite for the film's elaborate finale.\n\n\nAll songs written by Irving Berlin.\nIn the months prior to the filming of the movie, Marilyn Monroe had been placed on suspension from 20th Century-Fox after refusing to accept the leading role in a film version of \"The Girl in Pink Tights\". During her suspension, she married baseball star Joe DiMaggio and the two honeymooned in Japan, during which she took time to entertain soldiers in Korea. Fox had intended to cast Sheree North in the picture, going so far as to test the actress in Monroe's own studio wardrobe. When the star returned to Hollywood, her Fox suspension was lifted, and studio executives offered her a role in the ensemble cast of \"There's No Business Like Show Business\" as a replacement project for having refused to make \"Pink Tights\". Monroe initially refused to make the picture just as she had for the previous offering until Fox ensured her that her next vehicle would be \"The Seven Year Itch\". She also demanded a pay increase of $3,000 a week.\n\nEthel Merman had first sung \"There's No Business Like Show Business\" in the original Broadway production of \"Annie Get Your Gun\" in 1946 and would go on to sing it again in the 1967 television broadcast of the subsequent Lincoln Center revival.\n\nTo publicize the film, Monroe wore a black cotton polka-dot swimsuit. It went on auction at Christie's in London in 1991 and sold for $22,400 to collector David Gainsborough Roberts.\n\nDespite boasting a lavish production, \"Irving Berlin's There's No Business Like Show Business\" eventually became both a critical and box office failure.\n\nEd Sullivan described Monroe's performance of the song \"Heat Wave\" as \"one of the most flagrant violations of good taste\" he had witnessed. \"Time\" magazine compared her unfavorably to co-star Ethel Merman. Bosley Crowther in \"The New York Times\" called the film a \"major success\" in a generally favorable review, praising in particular Donald O'Connor's performance, but said that Mitzi Gaynor had surpassed Monroe's \"wriggling and squirming\" which were \"embarrassing to behold.\" Donald O'Connor drew unfavorable reviews for his \"over-acting\" and \"uncanny flirting\" with Monroe on-screen. Dan Dailey and Johnnie Ray favored better among critics, although reviewers stated their performances were \"below average\".\n\nThe film's budget was $4,340,000. Excessive at the time for a movie filmed entirely on a studio lot in Los Angeles, the expenses were mainly due to delays in production, the lavish musical numbers and a running time that was at least 15 minutes longer than most other Hollywood musicals. Because the film made just $5,103,555 at the box office, and became the thirteenth highest-grossing film of 1954, 20th Century Fox officials were disappointed. \n\nAccording to records, Fox was expecting a profit of $2 million, but ran a loss of almost $950,000. It is also significant that Johnnie Ray never worked again for 20th Century Fox or appeared in another motion picture made by any major movie studio in the United States or another country, though his music developed a stronger following overseas than in the United States.\n\nThe film's TV premiere occurred October 28, 1961, on NBC's ground-breaking movie anthology series, \"Saturday Night at the Movies\", in a pan-and-scan version to match the square, small-screen design of televisions manufactured at the time. Later syndicated broadcasts on local television stations were unkind to the legacy of \"There's No Business Like Show Business\" because it warranted a time slot of at least two-and-one-half hours, including commercials and also because of the lack of letterboxing during that era. Its release to the home video market in the early 1990s, which solved the problem of commercial interruptions though the issue of the aspect ratio of Cinemascope remained, improved its profits considerably. A DVD release in 2001 that included letterboxing and 4-channel surround sound introduced the film to younger generations. It has received favorable reviews from critics and fans.\n\nThe film is recognized by American Film Institute in these lists:\n\n"}
{"id": "2001272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001272", "title": "Tom R. Ferguson", "text": "Tom R. Ferguson\n\nTom R. Ferguson (born December 20, 1950) is an American former professional rodeo cowboy. He was the Professional Rodeo Cowboys Association (PRCA) \"World All-Around Cowboy Champion\" for six consecutive years from 1974 to 1979 breaking the previous mark of five consecutive titles held by Larry Mahan. He was also the 1974 \"World Tie-Down Roping Champion\" and the \"World Steer Wrestling Champion\" in 1977 and 1978. In 1999, he was inducted into the ProRodeo Hall of Fame.\n\nBorn in Tahlequah, Oklahoma, United States, on December 20, 1950, Tom Ferguson moved to California at the age of 3 and was later chosen for the California Polytechnic State University rodeo team. The team took home multiple National Intercollegiate Rodeo Association championships, before Ferguson turned professional and returned to Miami, Oklahoma, in 1973. He joined the Rodeo Cowboys Association (RCA), which later renamed itself to the Professional Rodeo Cowboys Association (PRCA).\n\nThough Larry Mahan was the first to have six world all-around titles, Ferguson won six consecutively. The 5-foot-11 Native American rodeo cowboy specialized in calf roping and steer wrestling. In 1994, Ty Murray broke Mahan's and Ferguson's record of six titles and tied Ferguson's record of having won six titles consecutively. In 1998, Murray won his seventh title, surpassing both of them and holding the record for all-around titles at seven titles. In 2010, Trevor Brazile won his eighth all-around title, surpassing them all. In 2018, Brazile won his 14th all-around title.\n\nIn his first year as a professional rodeo cowboy, Ferguson came in second in the National Finals Rodeo (NFR) in the All-Around Cowboy event. He accumulated more than $1 million in his rodeo career and was among the first rodeo cowboys to hire a manager.\n\nIn 1974, he won the World Tie-Down Roping championship and came second in the Steer Wrestling event. In 1976 he won the World Steer Wrestling Championship. Ferguson retired from rodeo in the late 1980s.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2001282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001282", "title": "Da Boom Crew", "text": "Da Boom Crew\n\nDa Boom Crew is a Canadian/American children's television animated series, produced by Berliner Film Company in association with Jambalaya Studios in Los Angeles, California.\n\nThe series premiered on Kids' WB in September 2004. Unusual for an animated series, it was cancelled after only four episodes aired due to low ratings and negative viewer reception.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, all 13 episodes were broadcast on Cartoon Network UK in 2005.\n\nA press release by Animation Magazine claimed a second season had been in production, though nothing else was ever said about it actually going into production or being animated.\n\nAfter four foster children make a video game about heroes going up against space alien terrorists suddenly a portal appears and pulls them into a dimension which is really similar to their game. This show also details their adventures in this parallel world as they embark on a quest to find their missing video game cartridges and stop the sadistic extraterrestrial emperor Zorch from taking control of this intergalactic dimension.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2001284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001284", "title": "Dorus de Vries", "text": "Dorus de Vries\n\nDorus de Vries (born 29 December 1980) is a Dutch former footballer, who played as a goalkeeper.\n\nDe Vries began his professional career in his native the Netherlands with Telstar, before spending three seasons with ADO Den Haag. He moved to Britain in 2006, when he spent a season at Scottish club Dunfermline Athletic. before moving to Swansea City where he spent four seasons, culminating in promotion to the Premier League in 2011. He rejected a new deal with Swansea to instead join Wolverhampton Wanderers, with whom he spent two seasons largely as back-up. De Vries then signed for Nottingham Forest in July 2013. He retired from football in 2019, after three seasons with Celtic.\n\nDe Vries began his professional career at Telstar, making his first team debut during the 1999–2000 season. He remained with the club in the second tier of Dutch football until 2003, when he signed for Eredivisie side ADO Den Haag.\n\nAfter mostly serving as back-up to Roland Jansen, he took over as number one during the 2004–05 campaign. However, this status proved short lived as the loan capture of Jaroslav Drobný during 2006 pushed De Vries aside, and he was told that he would not be offered a new contract.\n\nIn the summer of 2006, following a successful trial, he signed a contract with Scottish Premier League club Dunfermline Athletic. He made his debut in a 0–0 draw with Ayr United in the second round of the Scottish League Cup, saving a penalty to take the match to extra time before going on to win in a penalty shoot-out.\nOn 11 May 2007, he palmed a tame free kick into his own net against Inverness Caledonian Thistle to end Dunfermline's seven-year stay in the Scottish Premier League. However, following the match, Dunfermline manager Stephen Kenny refused to blame De Vries for his team's relegation, stating: \"\"We can attach absolutely no blame to him because he has been out of this world this season.\" His final match for the club came in the 2007 Scottish Cup Final defeat to Celtic.\n\nAfter becoming a free agent at the end of his contract, De Vries signed a two-year deal at Swansea City on 6 July 2007. In his first season with the Welsh side he helped the club to the League One title, as the club's first choice goalkeeper.\n\nIn the 2009–10 season, De Vries surpassed Roger Freestone's club record of 22 clean sheets in a single season with a shut-out against Scunthorpe United on 5 April 2010. He would go on to finish the season with 25 clean sheets, winning the Football League's Golden Glove award for the Championship in the process.\n\nThe following season, he was part of the team that won the Championship Play-off Final, against Reading, to reach the Premier League. Initially, De Vries stated that he wanted to stay with the club for their first Premier League season. However, he rejected their contract offer shortly after and was subsequently signed by Wolverhampton Wanderers.\n\nOn 22 June 2011, it was confirmed that free agent De Vries had joined Premier League side Wolverhampton Wanderers, signing a three-year contract. At Wolves, De Vries primarily served as back-up to Wayne Hennessey and initially only gained playing time in cup competitions. He made his club debut on 23 August 2011 in a 4–0 League Cup win at Northampton Town.\n\nWhen first choice goalkeeper Hennessey suffered a torn cruciate knee ligament in April 2012, De Vries made his first-ever Premier League appearance. However, by this stage Wolves had become rooted in the relegation zone and the 0–2 defeat against eventual champions Manchester City on De Vries' league debut confirmed their relegation back to the Championship. De Vries remained in the Wolves' goal for their remaining fixtures, including a trip to his former club Swansea, before which he said that he has no regrets about his decision to leave Swansea and join Wolves; he received mixed reception from Swansea fans and went on to concede four times in a 4–4 draw.\n\nFollowing relegation, De Vries was a target for Liverpool following their appointment of former Swansea manager Brendan Rodgers as manager, but their bid of a reported £500,000 was not accepted. With the new season beginning with Wayne Hennessey still sidelined through injury, new Wolves manager Ståle Solbakken opted to instead start with Carl Ikeme in goal. His only start under Solbakken came in a League Cup loss at Chelsea, during which the goalkeeper conceded six times. In late October Solbakken admitted that he and De Vries had had an angry confrontation regarding his lack of opportunities.\n\nFor a second consecutive season his chance to play league football only arrived through injury, when Ikeme suffered a self-inflicted broken hand in March 2013. He played in all of Wolves' remaining fixtures as the team again struggled unsuccessfully to avoid relegation under another manager, Dean Saunders. Following relegation to League One, Saunders was fired and replaced by Kenny Jackett, who has stated that De Vries was free to leave on a free transfer as he sought to slim down the squad.\n\nOn 3 July 2013, De Vries signed a two-year deal with Championship club Nottingham Forest. Upon joining the club, De Vries stated the move wouldn't be easy for him over a first choice goalkeeper. De Vries was given the number 29 shirt.\n\nIn his first season at Nottingham Forest, De Vries was primarily second choice goalkeeper behind Karl Darlow throughout the season, making his debut for the club on 21 April 2014 in a 2–1 win over Leeds United, and remained in goal for the remainder of the season with Darlow injured. De Vries was again second choice in 2014–2015, eventually displacing Darlow for a spell including the 2–1 derby win over Derby County, but Darlow was re-instated by Dougie Freedman, immediately on replacing Stuart Pearce as manager.\n\nFollowing Darlow's move to Newcastle United, De Vries was promoted to first-choice goalkeeper for the 2015–16 season and took the number one shirt. He played in all but one of Forest's league matches, missing the away fixture against Sheffield Wednesday with a back injury. On 1 May 2016 De Vries was voted Player of the Season for 2015–16 by Forest's supporters after a consistent year in goal, which included a hat-trick of Player of the Month awards for August, February and March.\n\nDe Vries made one appearance for Forest in the 2016–17 season: on opening day in a 4–3 victory over Burton Albion.\n\nOn 13 August 2016, De Vries signed a two-year deal with Celtic. He made his debut on 27 August, playing the full match in Celtic's 4–1 win over Aberdeen at Celtic Park. He played in his first Old Firm match on 10 September, in only his second appearance, as Celtic beat Rangers 5–1. Three days later he made his European debut, in a 7–0 defeat to Barcelona at Camp Nou in the UEFA Champions League. After playing the full ninety minutes of the 2–2 draw away at Inverness Caledonian Thistle, de Vries was substituted at half-time against Kilmarnock on 24 September, replaced by Craig Gordon; this was his last appearance of the 2016–17 season.\n\nDe Vries made only one appearance in the entire 2017 calendar year: a 1–0 win over Dundee on 14 October. De Vries replaced Gordon at half-time shortly after the latter suffered a knee injury in the 1–0 win over Hibernian on 27 January 2018. This gave De Vries an extended run in the side, taking in Scottish Premiership clashes with Aberdeen, Hearts, Kilmarnock, and St Johnstone, Scottish Cup victories over first Partick Thistle and then Greenock Morton, and De Vries' UEFA Europa League début, which came against Zenit Saint Petersburg. Celtic exited the Europa League after a 3–1 aggregate defeat to Zenit; the Russians' second goal, described by De Vries as a \"knuckleball\", deceived him, and it is his belief that his side never recovered from that concession. De Vries was injured in training on 9 March and replaced by Scott Bain in the match with Rangers two days later, and made no further appearances in the 2017–18 season, finishing with 10 appearances: two in the Scottish Cup, two in the Europa League, and six in the League.\n\nDe Vries left Celtic at the end of the 2018–19 season, and then announced his retirement from football.\n\nSwansea City\n\nCeltic\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2001286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001286", "title": "The Ticket", "text": "The Ticket\n\nThe Ticket may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2001296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001296", "title": "NWA National Heavyweight Championship", "text": "NWA National Heavyweight Championship\n\nThe NWA National Championship is a professional wrestling championship owned and promoted by the U.S.-based, National Wrestling Alliance (NWA). Its current titleholder is Aron Stevens, who is in his first reign.\n\nThe championship was established in January 1980 as the top singles title of Georgia Championship Wrestling (GCW), a prominent NWA-affiliated promotion. Until its September 1986 deactivation, the title remained Georgia-based -- across 3 different owners (GCW; Championship Wrestling from Georgia, and Jim Crockett Promotions). \n\nThe title was reactivated in May 1997 and promoted by a handful of NWA-affiliated independent promotions, until its was vacated in October 2017.\n\nIn October 2018, the title was renamed the \"NWA National Championship\", reactivated, and the NWA (now a promotion, instead of a sanctioning body) held an 8-person tournament to crown a new titleholder.\n\nThe NWA National Heavyweight Championship was the top singles title in the NWA-affiliated promotion, Georgia Championship Wrestling (GCW), from 1980 until 1986. Contrary to its name, the title was defended almost exclusively in just one state, Georgia. When World Wrestling Entertainment (then called, the World Wrestling Federation) purchased GCW (Black Saturday (1984)) in July 1984, then-champion The Spoiler signed with the WWF (which even, briefly, recognized the title). Soon thereafter, Championship Wrestling from Georgia -- started by former GCW booker Ole Anderson -- launched and gained NWA affiliation. The title was awarded to Ted DiBiase.\n\nIn 1985, Jim Crockett Promotions purchased the weekend TBS timeslots for wrestling from the WWF, producing its own version of the \"World Championship Wrestling\" TV show. JCP had also purchased Championship Wrestling from Georgia (taking over its Saturday morning time slot, as well), and began recognizing CWG's championships. Eventually, Crockett held a unification match between his company's NWA United States Champion Nikita Koloff, and NWA National Champion Wahoo McDaniel, which Koloff won. The National title was deactivated, after that.\n\nIn May 1997, the title was reactivated and promoted by various NWA-affiliated, independent promotions across the United States. \n\nIn October 2017, Billy Corgan's company Lightning One, Inc., purchased the National Wrestling Alliance's intellectual and physical properties. At that point, all pre-existing NWA affiliation agreements with other promotions were ended; most NWA-branded championships (including the National) would be vacated in the months that immediately followed. The only two championships not vacated were the NWA Worlds Heavyweight Championship, and NWA World Women’s Championship. Corgan transformed the NWA from a governing body, to a wrestling promotion -- one seeking to proudly revive and preserve the mood, look, and feel of the 1970s/1980s, Georgia/Mid-Atlantic era of wrestling.\n\nIn October 2018, the NWA announced the National title would be rebooted on the NWA 70th Anniversary Show, with an eight-man, championship tournament featuring: Jay Bradley; Colt Cabana; Sammy Guevara; Mike Parrow; Scorpio Sky; Sam Shaw; Ricky Starks; and Willie Mack. The championship was officially renamed the \"NWA National Championship\". A new title belt was commissioned: its design was a faithful restoration of the 1970s, Crockett/Mid-Atlantic Wrestling version of the NWA United States Heavyweight Championship belt, with a few modern tweaks.\n\nThe NWA currently recognizes 85 individual National Championship reigns. \n\nThe inaugural champion was Austin Idol. The longest reigning champion is Phil Shatter, who held the title from January 17, 2009 to February 19, 2011 for a total of 763 days. Ricky Murdock holds the record for longest combined reigns (2) at 817 days. Killer Tim Brooks has the shortest reign. Damien Wayne, Phil \"Nitro\" Monahan, Greg Anthony, Lou Marconi, Paul Orndorff, Tommy Rich, Larry Zbyszko, and Masked Superstar have the most reigns with 3 apiece.\n\nAron Stevens is the current champion in his first reign. He won the title on December 18, 2019 during the NWA Into the Fire pay-per-view in Atlanta, Georgia by defeating Colt Cabana and Ricky Starks in a triple threat match. Stevens later declared his name was now \"Shooter Stevens\" and that he held the \"NWA Third Degree National Championship\" in a reference to martial arts grades under his training with The Question Mark.\n\nAs of 17, 2020.\n\nAs of 17, 2020.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2001301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001301", "title": "The Glass Bottom Boat", "text": "The Glass Bottom Boat\n\nThe Glass Bottom Boat is a 1966 American romantic comedy film directed by Frank Tashlin, starring Doris Day and Rod Taylor, with Arthur Godfrey, Dick Martin, Dom DeLuise and Paul Lynde. It is also known as The Spy in Lace Panties.\n\nAxel Nordstrom manages a glass-bottom boat tourist operation in the waters of Santa Catalina Island, California. His widowed daughter, Jennifer Nelson, occasionally helps by donning a mermaid costume and swimming underneath his boat for the passengers' amusement.\n\nOne day, Jennifer accidentally meets Bruce Templeton when his fishing hook snags her costume. He reels in the bottom half, leaving the irate Jennifer floating in the water without pants. Jennifer later discovers that Templeton is a top executive at her new place of employment, a NASA aerospace research laboratory in Long Beach, where she works in public relations.\n\nTempleton later recognizes Jennifer at the research laboratory and hires her for a new full-time assignment: to be his biographer and write his life story. His real purpose is to win her affections. There is a problem: the laboratory's security chief, Homer Cripps, after observing her mysterious behavior and curious, code-like phone calls, concludes that Jennifer is a Soviet spy. To prove his suspicions, he has Jennifer put under surveillance by everyone at the lab. When she learns of this, Jennifer sets out to turn the tables on the bumbling Cripps by pretending that she \"is\" a spy, a charade that eventually exposes a real spy, Edgar Hill.\n\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki>Pearce and Tobias play an inquisitive wife and her disinterested husband, in roles not unlike the ones they played at the time in the television series \"Bewitched\". The film was also released 3 months after the death of Alice Pearce.\n\nRobert Vaughn, famous at the time for playing Napoleon Solo in the TV series \"The Man from U.N.C.L.E.\", makes a very brief non-speaking appearance as a sight gag; the theme from his TV series is heard when he is seen onscreen.\n\nShooting partly took place on Catalina Island. It was Rod Taylor's second film with Doris Day following \"Do Not Disturb\".\n\nThe \"Nautilus\" boat used in the film sank in the Catalina harbor in 2008. It is currently drydocked in a private part of the island.\n\nThe mermaid costume worn by Doris Day in the opening scene is now on display at the Catalina Casino and can be viewed on the Casino tour.\n\nThe film stands apart from Day's other 1960s comedies due to animator-turned-director Tashlin's signature penchant for elaborate, cartoon-like gags and humor. This includes Taylor's futuristic, robotic kitchen; a chase scene involving a runaway remote-controlled speedboat; Day accidentally falling into a zero-gravity tank, and a slapstick sequence involving DeLuise as an inept electrician, which closely resembles Tashlin's frequent collaborations with Jerry Lewis.\n\nThe film's score was composed by Frank DeVol and includes selections from Beethoven's \"Symphony No. 5 in C minor\", Mendelssohn's \"Wedding March in C major\", \"Aloha 'Oe\" (written by Queen Liliuokalani) and Goldsmith's \"Theme from The Man from U.N.C.L.E.\"\n\nDay sings a shortened version of \"Soft as the Starlight\" (written by Joe Lubin and Jerome Howard), which she previously sang in its entirety on the 1957 album \"Day by Night\". The song \"The Glass Bottom Boat\" is a rearrangement of \"Soft as the Starlight\" with completely different lyrics and is heard twice in the film: over the opening credits, sung by Day, and again as source music sung by Day, Taylor, Godfrey and Fraser. Day also sings a single verse from her signature song, \"Whatever Will Be, Will Be (Que Sera, Sera)\" (written by Jay Livingston and Ray Evans). Dick Martin sings a brief a cappella rendition of \"Be My Love\" (written by Sammy Cahn and Nicholas Brodszky).\n\nThe film was an attempt to appeal both to Day's traditional fans and to a younger audience. It was a success financially, earning $4,320,000 in North American rentals by the end of 1966.\n\nIt drew 21,752 admissions in France.\n\nOn Rotten Tomatoes, the film holds a critical approval of 50%, based on 6 reviews, with an average rating of 5.6/10.\n\nDay followed up with \"Caprice\" (1967), a comedy-thriller more completely in the spy spoof genre, again with Tashlin directing, but it was a critical and commercial failure.\n\nThe DVD of \"The Glass Bottom Boat\" (released in 2005) includes three vintage featurettes (\"Catalina Island\", \"Every Girl's Dream\", and \"NASA\"), as well as the Oscar-Winning cartoon \"The Dot and the Line\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2001310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001310", "title": "New Hampshire Route 4", "text": "New Hampshire Route 4\n\nNew Hampshire Route 4 (NH 4) is a state highway located in eastern Strafford County, New Hampshire. Its western terminus is at an intersection with New Hampshire Route 9 and New Hampshire Route 108 in Dover. Its northern terminus is at the Maine state border in Rollinsford, where it continues as Maine State Route 4.\n\nFor most of its length NH 4 is signed as an east-west highway. Signage in downtown Dover while overlapped with NH 9 and NH 108 is inconsistent as it is sometimes signed north-south. In general, NH 4 follows a southwest-to-northeast alignment.\n\nNH 4 is not related to U.S. Route 4, which also enters the Dover city limits. They are the only non-linked highways to share a number in New Hampshire and remain under NHDOT maintenance. (Maine State Route 113 does cross into New Hampshire near NH 113, but remains completely under MaineDOT maintenance.)\n\nThe western terminus of NH 4 is not readily apparent, but signage suggests it to be at the intersection of Central Avenue and Silver Street (where NH 9 and NH 108 split). Signage at the intersection of Silver Street and Central Avenue seems to indicate NH 4 continuing westbound along NH 9; however, no further signage for NH 4 exists west of this point.\n\nFrom the intersection of Central Avenue and Silver Street, NH 4 is overlapped with NH 9 and NH 108 for , until NH 4 splits off in the center of town. The exact routing differs depending on which direction one is traveling, due to the one-way streets it traverses in the downtown area. \n\nIn the eastbound direction, NH 4 is overlapped with NH 9 east / NH 108 north onto Main Street then splits off onto Portland Avenue, on which it remains.\n\nHowever, in the westbound direction NH 4 (as signed) splits from Portland Avenue onto Chapel Street. It then turns right onto Saint John Street, left onto Broadway, then left onto Central Avenue (NH 9 west / NH 108 south). \n\nWestbound Portland Avenue from Chapel Street to Main Street is signed as a truck route. To continue to the main route, traffic must turn right onto Main Street then make a left-hand U-turn to loop around onto Central Avenue.\n\nAfter leaving downtown Dover, NH 4 crosses into the town of Rollinsford. It is the only state route to pass through Rollinsford and runs in the south-central part of town for about . NH 4 then crosses the Salmon Falls River into the town of South Berwick, Maine, and becomes Maine State Route 4 (which is signed as a north-south highway).\n\nNH 4 is named Portland Avenue in Rollinsford.\n\nNH 4 (and State Route 4 in Maine by extension) was originally intended to be a part of US 4, hence its number. However, US 4 was ultimately routed from Durham to the southern tip of Dover and along the Spaulding Turnpike to Portsmouth. While US 4 never entered Maine, the number 4 was retained for the resulting state highway in Maine. For continuity's sake, New Hampshire kept the number 4 on its section of the highway as well.\n\nUS 4 only travels through a small section of southern Dover (mostly along the Spaulding Turnpike) which is several miles from downtown, meaning it was unlikely that the two highways would be easily confused.\n\n\nThis route between Lebanon and Andover is an alternate route of US 4 and is not associated with NH 4.\n"}
{"id": "2001318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001318", "title": "Glenn Strömberg", "text": "Glenn Strömberg\n\nGlenn Peter Strömberg (; born 5 January 1960) is a former Swedish professional footballer who played as a midfielder.\n\nStrömberg won the 1982 UEFA Cup with IFK Göteborg. Apart from IFK Göteborg, he has also played for Benfica and Atalanta. He was voted Swedish footballer of the year, winning Guldbollen 1985. For his majestic way of playing in the midfield he was nicknamed \"The Marathon Man\". His usual position was central midfield or defensive midfield.\n\nSince he has no managerial experience, he was never regarded as a serious candidate to succeed Lars Lagerbäck as head coach of the Sweden national football team. In interviews during the 2006 FIFA World Cup he said that he was flattered to get mentioned as a potential candidate for the job and that he would think carefully about any offer from the Swedish Football Association.\n\nStrömberg works as an expert commentator for Sveriges Television, for Viasat on UEFA Champions League and F.A. Premier League matches and for sports betting site Expekt.com as an expert. In June 2012, Glenn Strömberg launched his own football site, Gurufans.com, in Swedish and English.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2001324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001324", "title": "British Rail Class 350", "text": "British Rail Class 350\n\nThe British Rail Class 350 \"Desiro\" is a class of electric multiple-unit passenger train built by Siemens in 2004–05, 2008–09 and 2013–14. Thirty of these trains, designated Class 350/1, were built for use by Central Trains and Silverlink on regional express services and services on the southern section of the West Coast Main Line. A further 37 Class 350/2 units were ordered by then operator London Midland in late 2007. All 37 units were delivered and in service by July 2009. A further 20 units have since been built, split equally between London Midland/LNR and TransPennine Express. The London Northwestern units are designated under the Class 350/3 subfleet, and the former TransPennine Express units are designated 350/4.\n\nThe Siemens \"Desiro UK\" family also includes units of Classes 185, 360, 380, 444 and 450.\n\nThe Class 350/1 units were originally part of an order for 32 five-car units for South West Trains. However, they were never built as such. Of the 160 carriages ordered, 40 were diverted as an additional 10 four-car Class 450 units, and the remaining 120 were modified as 30 four-car Class 350/1 units. The top speed of the fleet was originally , but all 350/1s were modified to allow running from December 2012, in order to make better use of paths on the busy West Coast Main Line.\n\nA second batch of Class 350/2 units, intended to replace the units, was delivered in late 2008 and during 2009. The first of the Class 350/2 was launched on 8 October 2008, and carried invited guests around the Wildenrath Test Track.\nThe last of the Class 350/2 fleet (350 267) was officially delivered to London Midland on 30 July 2009. Class 350/2 differ from the Class 350/1 units in two key aspects: they have 3+2 seating in standard class (because they work short-hop commuter services, the Class 350/1 are 2+2 throughout, work longer distance services) and lack the dual-voltage capability of the 350/1. Initially, Class 350/2 units had a maximum speed of , but the fleet was upgraded to allow 110 mph running during 2018. This was to allow the operators to run mixed 350/1 and 350/2 services without causing delays, especially important given the capacity changes which HS2 works at London Euston were expected to cause.\n\nClass 350 trains are nearly identical to those of Class 450. The latter class is only fitted with traction equipment for Southern Region 750 V DC third rail, whilst the Class 350/1 units can operate from both OLE, as is done in regular service, or alternatively third rail. This dual-voltage capability was utilised when several units were leased to Southern in 2008 and 2009, in order to cover for similarly equipped Class 377/2 units temporarily sub-leased to First Capital Connect, themselves to cover for delays in the construction of the 377/5 fleet. All Class 350 units built since are not equipped for third-rail use but, like most modern British EMUs, can be retrofitted if necessary.\n\nEvery set of doors has its own set of guard-operated door controls behind a lockable panel. The cabs have three radio systems - Cab Secure Radio (CSR), National Radio Network (NRN) and the newest system, GSM-R. CCTV and dot-matrix destination screens are fitted throughout the train.\n\nAll of London Midland's 77 Class 350s were then inherited by London Northwestern Railway under West Midlands Trains from London Midland on 9 December 2017.\n\nThe London Northwestern Railway fleet is based at the purpose-built Kings Heath depot at Kingsthorpe, Northampton, which opened in June 2006 and can also service Class 319 and other Desiro units if required.\n\nThe first Class 350 units entered service in June 2005 with Central Trains. These operated on services between Birmingham and Northampton via Coventry, and all Birmingham - Liverpool services, replacing units. Most recently Desiros have taken over some peak services between Birmingham and Walsall.\n\nSilverlink began operating in July 2005 between London Euston - Milton Keynes Central and Northampton.\n\nThe Central Trains and Silverlink franchises expired in 2007.\n\nOnce the Central Trains & Silverlink franchises expired, the entire fleet transferred to London Midland, the holder of the then new West Midlands franchise. As part of the agreement, London Midland embarked on the acquisition of a significant number of new trains, the largest order of which was for 37 additional Class 350 units. The first ten 350/2 units entered service in December 2008. In addition to the existing operations, these units took over the new Crewe - London Euston service running via Stoke-on-Trent and stopping at most of the Trent Valley Line stations.\n\nFour 350/1 units were subleased to Southern from 2008 to 2009, to provide cover for Class 377 units subleased to First Capital Connect. After newer Class 377 \"Electrostar\" trains were built, these units were returned to London Midland.\n\nTen additional four-car units were built for the London Midland franchise, to provide additional capacity, entering service from October 2014.\n\nTen additional four-car units were introduced in 2013 for First TransPennine Express to coincide with the completion of the electrification of the eastern section of the Manchester to Liverpool via Newton-le-Willows line. These units were used on services between Manchester and Edinburgh / Glasgow, while the displaced Class 185s have remained with TransPennine to enhance capacity on other routes. The new trains have a revised specification allowing running with an intercity-style interior described as similar to the existing 185s.\n\nThe first First TransPennine Express Class 350/4 services ran on 30 December 2013 between Manchester Piccadilly and Glasgow Central. The trains operate from Manchester Airport and Preston to Glasgow Central and Edinburgh Waverley.\n\nAll ten trains were delivered to TransPennine Express allowing most services on the Manchester to Scotland route to be operated using EMUs.\n\nThe TransPennine Express units were based at Siemens' existing Ardwick depot, with the government providing funding for the required electrification.\n\nTransPennine Express had 12 Class 397 Civity units on order to replace the Class 350/4s on TransPennine North West services, with the Class 350/4s moving to London Northwestern Railway. The first unit transferred in Summer 2019 and by 5th April 2020, all 10 units had transferred.\n\nWest Midlands Trains announced that they would be replacing all 37 of their 350/2 units for Class 350/4 units cascaded from TransPennine Express and brand new Class 730 units which both can travel up to speeds of 110 mph.\n\nIn October 2018, Porterbrook announced it was considering converting its fleet of 350/2s to Battery electric multiple units for potential future cascades to non-electrified routes.\n\nThe Class 350/1s, 350/3s and 350/4s are owned by Angel Trains and the Class 350/2s are owned by Porterbrook.\n\n\nOn 16 September 2016, unit 350264 struck a landslide at the entrance to Watford Tunnel and was derailed. Unit 350117, which was working in multiple, was undamaged. Unit 350233 then collided with the derailed train. Two people were injured and unit 350264 was severely damaged. The leading carriage of 350233 was severely damaged, and all four carriages were damaged along one side. The consequences were not as serious as they could potentially have been because the derailed train was fortuitously kept from diverging too far from its line by equipment on the bottom of the train catching on the rail, meaning 350233 struck only a glancing blow. On 10 November 2016, unit 350264 was moved to Germany by low-loader, followed later by 350233. Both units re-entered service in early 2018.\n"}
{"id": "2001326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001326", "title": "National Postgraduate Committee", "text": "National Postgraduate Committee\n\nThe National Postgraduate Committee of the United Kingdom (NPC) was a charitable organisation which represented postgraduates at UK universities. In 2009 it voted to dissolve itself and merge with the National Union of Students.\n\nNPC was formed by affiliation from student representative bodies across the United Kingdom and seeks, in the words of its constitution, \"to advance, in the public interest, the education of postgraduate students within the United Kingdom\" through representation, lobbying, contribution to public policy debate, initiating communication between relevant parties and bringing key issues and potential solutions to wider audiences.\n\nThe organisation's motion to dissolve and engage in merger talks with NUS cited several reasons for the organisation's winding up, including \"the increased capacity of the NUS with regards to that organisation's ability to meet the needs of postgraduates, and that likelihood that this capacity will increase.\" Other organisations cited additional reasons which led to NPC's dissolution, including financial and management difficulties.\n\nThe NPC was formed in the 1980s as a network of officers. In 1990, recognising that at that time the National Union of Students (NUS) was not well set up to represent the particular issues postgraduate faced nationally it held its first conference at the University of Cambridge; Chris Whitty was elected chair. Following this a growth in activity ensued, leading to the adoption of formal structures. It adopted its first constitution in 1992, the same year that it created the full-time post of General Secretary and began its affiliation scheme. The NPC sought charitable status for a number of years and obtained this in 2002, following the passing of a new constitution.\n\nPast General Secretaries:\n\nThe majority of NPC's work was conducted by the General Secretary who worked full-time; there were 14 other voluntary officers on the executive to assist in the general running of the organisation. Income was derived from affiliation fees by several student representative bodies in the United Kingdom along with a small number of donations.\n\nThe \"Journal of Graduate Education\" () was an academic journal established by the NPC in 1994. It was incorporated with the now-defunct \"International Journal of Graduate Education \"in 2008.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2001330", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001330", "title": "Jim Gilchrist", "text": "Jim Gilchrist\n\nJames Walter Gilchrist Jr. is an American political activist and the co-founder and president of the Minuteman Project, an activist group whose aim is to prevent illegal immigration across the southern border of the United States.\n\nGilchrist served in the U.S. Marine Corps and received a Purple Heart medal while in the infantry during the Vietnam War, 1968 - 1969.\n\nGilchrist and Chris Simcox are widely recognized as the founders of the Minuteman Project. They founded the organization on October 1, 2004. The two staged a month-long border watch project in April 2005 and that event catapulted the Minuteman movement into the national spotlight. Gilchrist chose to locate in Arizona for the Project, because there was a disproportionately large number of undocumented immigrants crossing in that state.\n\nGilchrist holds conservative views on education, health care, and taxes. Gilchrist was registered with the American Independent Party, the California affiliate of the Constitution Party, but has since re-registered as a Republican, and is an adamant supporter of immigration enforcement, law enforcement and the military. He announced his endorsement of Mike Huckabee for President in December 2007. The endorsement of Huckabee by Gilchrist met with strong criticism from other minutemen and anti-illegal immigration activists. This was a personal, individual endorsement by Gilchrist, not an endorsement by any minuteman organization.\n\nGilchrist unsuccessfully ran as an American Independent Party candidate for the United States House of Representatives representing California's 48th congressional district to replace Republican Christopher Cox, who resigned to become Chairman of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.\n\nIn the low-turnout open primary for Cox's seat held on October 4, 2005, Gilchrist finished behind two Republicans but ahead of all other candidates, including Democrats. He received 14.8% of the vote (a total of 13,423 votes). He was the only one running under his party, and therefore automatically advanced into the run-off.\n\nGilchrist lost to Republican state Senator John Campbell in the December 6 general election, receiving 25.5% (26,507) of the vote. Campbell received 44.4% (46,184), Steve Young (Democrat) 27.8% (28,853), Bea Tiritilli (Green) 1.4% (1,430), Bruce Cohen (Libertarian) 0.9% (974).\n\nIn October 2006, Gilchrist appeared on Democracy Now and abruptly ended the interview after Karina Garcia started accusing him of being a murderer and said that he has ties to the white supremacist group National Alliance.\n\nIn a March 2006, interview with the \"Orange County Register\", Gilchrist stopped just short of calling for his followers to pick up their guns: \"I'm not going to promote insurrection, but if it happens, it will be on the conscience of the members of Congress who are doing this,\" he said. \"I will not promote violence in resolving this, but I will not stop others who might pursue that.\"\n\nIn May 2010, \"Politico\" reported that Howie Morgan, the Minuteman Project's political director, may have solicited donations from political campaigns in exchange for Gilchrist's endorsement. Rick Perry, Parker Griffith and Tim Bridgewater were all recipients of Gilchrist's endorsements in 2010. Mo Brooks, an Alabama politician running against Griffith, said that Morgan indicated Gilchrist would endorse Brooks if Morgan was hired.\n\nIn September 2014, the \"Daily Show\" made a segment about the Honduran children immigration featuring an interview with Jim Gilchrist, who compared the recent events at the border with a Trojan Horse situation, the vanguard of a Latino invasion of the United States. The correspondent Michael Che poked fun at Gilchrist's initiative against immigrants, called \"Operation Normandy\": \"If this is Operation Normandy and the children are invading us, wouldn't that make us the Nazis?\" . Gilchrist warned against the dangers of the \"latinization of America\" that the young refugees posed and added, to a baffled interviewer, \"We're all going to die some day. (...) I'm not giving a death wish on these children coming here (...) I'm saying that there's some things realistically you cannot stop.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2001331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001331", "title": "Simple precedence grammar", "text": "Simple precedence grammar\n\nA simple precedence grammar is a context-free formal grammar that can be parsed with a simple precedence parser. The concept was first created in 1964 by , and was later rediscovered, from ideas due to Robert Floyd, by Niklaus Wirth and Helmut Weber who published a paper, entitled \"EULER: a generalization of ALGOL, and its formal definition\", published in 1966 in the Communications of the ACM.\n\nG = (\"N\", Σ, \"P\", \"S\") is a simple precedence grammar if all the production rules in \"P\" comply with the following constraints:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2001335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001335", "title": "Philippine Trench", "text": "Philippine Trench\n\nThe Philippine Trench (also Philippine Deep, Mindanao Trench, and Mindanao Deep) is a submarine trench to the east of the Philippines. The trench is located in the Philippine sea of the western North Pacific Ocean and continues NNW-SSE. It has a length of approximately and a width of about from the center of the Philippine island of Luzon trending southeast to the northern Maluku island of Halmahera in Indonesia. At its deepest point, the trench reaches 10,540 meters (34,580 ft) or (5,760 fathoms).\n\nImmediately to the north of the Philippine Trench is the East Luzon Trench. They are separated, with their continuity interrupted and displaced, by Benham Plateau on the Philippine Sea Plate.\n\nThe Philippine trench is hypothesized to be younger than 8–9 million years ago. The central part of the Philippine fault formed during the Plio-Pleistocene times is considered to be an active depression of the Earth's crust. The trench formed from a collision between the Palawan and Zamboanga plates. This caused a change in geological processes going from a convergent zone to a subduction zone. The subduction zone is located west to east of the Philippine Islands. The rate of subduction on these plates is estimated to be about 15 cm per year. A convergent zone borders an estimate of 45% of the Philippine Trench today.\n\nAlthough there are vast areas of subduction zones, some authors have considered this region to have low seismic activity, though the USGS has recorded many earthquakes with magnitude ≥ 7.2 in the region as shown by the map to the side. Most recently, in 2012 the Philippine Trench experienced an earthquake of M 7.6 (the 2012 Samar earthquake). It hit the trench with a hypocenter depth of 34.9 km. Areas adjacent to the subduction zones have experienced large seismic activity. In 1897, northern Samar experienced a M 7.3 earthquake while in 1924 southern Mindanao experienced one with a M 8.2.\n\nThe trench reaches one of the greatest depths in the ocean, third only to the Mariana trench and the Tonga trench. Its deepest point is known as Galathea Depth and reaches 10,540 meters (34,580 ft) or (5,760 fathoms).\n\nSedimentation of the Philippine trench contains slightly metamorphosed, calc-alkalic, basic, ultrabasic rock and sand grains. The southern area of the trench contains homogenous, blue, clay silt and was poor in lime. Sand grains that were also found contained fresh basaltic andesite. The sediments found in the trenches are hypothesized to have been deposited by turbidity currents. A turbidity current is an underwater current that moves rapidly and carries sediment.\n\nKnown trenches in LuzViMinda are:\n"}
{"id": "2001341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001341", "title": "Dead Man's Statute", "text": "Dead Man's Statute\n\nA dead man's statute, also known as a dead man act or dead man's rule, is a statute designed to prevent perjury in a civil case by prohibiting a witness who is an interested party from testifying about communications or transactions with a deceased person (a \"decedent\") against the decedent unless there is a waiver.\n\nThis prohibition applies only against a witness who has an interest in the outcome of the case and applies only where that witness is testifying for his own interests and against the interests of the decedent. Furthermore, the restriction only exists in civil cases, never in criminal cases.\n\nThe restriction can be waived. A waiver can occur in a number of ways: \n\nWith respect to U.S. federal courts, Rule 601 of the Federal Rules of Evidence defers to state law the determination of whether a witness is competent to testify. \n\nAbout half of the U.S. States have enacted a dead man statute, more commonly referred to as the \"dead man's rule.\" Some states have enacted compromise variations to the rule. For example, in Virginia, an interested witness may testify only as to the statements of the deceased if this testimony is corroborated by a disinterested witness. In other states, such as Illinois, the rule has been expanded to prevent an interested party from testifying about communications with a minor or a legally incompetent person.\n\nThe Texas dead man's rule, found at Texas Rules of Evidence, 601(b)reads: (b) \"Dead Man Rule\" in Civil Actions. In civil actions by or against executors, administrators, or guardians, in which judgment may be rendered for or against them as such, neither party shall be allowed to testify against the others as to any oral statement by the testator, intestate or ward, unless that testimony to the oral statement is corroborated or unless the witness is called at the trial to testify thereto by the opposite party; and, the provisions of this article shall extend to and include all actions by or against the heirs or legal representatives of a decedent based in whole or in part on such oral statement. Except for the foregoing, a witness is not precluded from giving evidence of or concerning any transaction with, any conversations with, any admissions of, or statement by, a deceased or insane party or person merely because the witness is a party to the action or a person interested in the event thereof. The trial court shall, in a proper case, where this rule prohibits an interested party or witness from testifying, instruct the jury that such person is not permitted by the law to give evidence relating to any oral statement by the deceased or ward unless the oral statement is corroborated or unless the party or witness is called at the trial by the opposite party.\n"}
{"id": "2001345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001345", "title": "Operation Charnwood", "text": "Operation Charnwood\n\nOperation Charnwood was an Anglo-Canadian offensive that took place from 8 to 9 July 1944, during the Battle for Caen, part of the larger Operation Overlord (code-name for the Battle of Normandy) in the Second World War. The operation was intended to capture the German-occupied city of Caen (), which was an important objective for the Allies during the opening stages of Overlord. It was also hoped that the attack would forestall the transfer of German armoured units from the Anglo-Canadian sector to the American sector to the west, where an offensive was being prepared. The British and Canadians advanced on a broad front and by the evening of the second day had taken Caen up to the Orne and Odon rivers.\n\nPreceded by a controversial bombing raid that destroyed much of the historic Old City of Caen, Operation Charnwood began at dawn on 8 July, with three infantry divisions attacking German positions north of Caen, behind a creeping barrage. Supported by three armoured brigades, the British I Corps made gradual progress against the 12th SS Panzer Division Hitlerjugend and the 16th Luftwaffe Field Division. By the end of the day the 3rd Canadian Division and the British 3rd Infantry Division and 59th (Staffordshire) Infantry Division had cleared the villages in their path and reached the outskirts of the city. Moving into Caen at dawn the following morning, the Allies encountered resistance from remnants of German units who were beginning a withdrawal across the Orne. Carpiquet airfield fell to the Canadians during the early morning and by 18:00, the British and Canadians had linked up along the north bank of the Orne. The remaining bridges were defended or impassable and with German reserves positioned to oppose their crossing, I Corps ended the operation.\n\nOperation Charnwood was mutually costly and a tactical success for the Allies. The Germans retired from north of the Orne River but did not stop sending formations to the American front. The Germans established another defensive line along two ridges to the south of the city. The Allies maintained the initiative and began Operation Jupiter the next day and Operation Goodwood and Operation Atlantic a week later, in which the rest of Caen was secured.\n\nThe Norman city of Caen was one of the D-Day objectives for the British 3rd Infantry Division which landed on Sword Beach on 6 June 1944. The capture of Caen, while \"ambitious\", was the most important D-Day objective assigned to British I Corps (Lieutenant-General Sir John Crocker).\n\nThe initial Overlord plan called for the British Second Army to secure the city and then form a front line from Caumont-l'Éventé to the south-east of Caen, to acquire space for airfields and to protect the left flank of the United States First Army while it moved on Cherbourg. Possession of Caen and its environs would give the Second Army a suitable staging area for a push south to capture Falaise, which could then be used as the pivot for a swing left to advance on Argentan and then towards the Touques River. The terrain between Caen and Vimont was especially attractive to Allied planners, being open, dry and conducive to swift offensive operations. Since the Allies greatly outnumbered the Germans in tanks and mobile units, creating the conditions for a fluid, fast moving battle was to their advantage.\n\nThe 3rd Infantry Division came ashore as planned but was hampered by congestion in its beachhead, diversions en route and the late arrival of much of its armoured support. The division was unable to assault Caen in force and its lead elements were brought to a halt short of the outskirts. Later attacks failed as the German defenders were reinforced by the 12th SS Panzer Division Hitlerjugend. On 7 June the British began Operation Perch, a pincer attack by I Corps and XXX Corps, to encircle Caen from the east and west flanks. The I Corps attack south of the Orne River was halted by the 21st Panzer Division and the XXX Corps attack to the west of Caen was contained near Tilly-sur-Seulles by the \"Panzer-Lehr\" Division. To force the Panzer-Lehr Division to withdraw the British 7th Armoured Division attacked the western flank of the division on 13 June, through a gap created by the 1st US Infantry Division, to reach high ground near Villers-Bocage. In the Battle of Villers-Bocage, the 7th Armoured Division vanguard was ordered to retire and the Panzer-Lehr Division held its positions until XXX Corps captured Tilly-sur-Seulles on 19 June.\nThe next British offensive, codenamed Operation Epsom, was launched by VIII Corps on 26 June, after Operation Martlet (also known as Operation Dauntless) a preliminary attack on 25 June, to secure the right flank of VIII Corps. VIII Corps advanced to the west of Caen on a front from Rauray to Carpiquet. Once across the Odon and Orne rivers, VIII Corps was to make for high ground near Bretteville-sur-Laize and encircle Caen. The Germans managed to contain the offensive by committing all their strength, including the 9th SS-Panzer Division \"Hohenstaufen\" and 10th SS-Panzer Division \"Frundsberg\" of the II SS Panzer Corps, which had been sent from the Eastern Front soon after the D-Day and had been intended for a counter-offensive against Bayeux.\n\nOn 27 June, the 8th Infantry Brigade (1st Suffolk Regiment, 2nd East Yorkshire Regiment, 1st South Lancashire Regiment) of the 3rd Infantry Division, supported by the Staffordshire Yeomanry, of the 27th Armoured Brigade, and specialist armour from the 79th Armoured Division, began Operation Mitten. The objective was to seize the German-occupied Château la Londe and Château le Landel. The initial evening assault, led by the 1st Battalion, South Lancashire Regiment was repulsed but the following morning further attacks gained the objectives and destroyed several German tanks. Operation Mitten cost at least three British tanks and 268 men. Had it succeeded quicker, the 9th Brigade, supported by the 9th Canadian Infantry Brigade, would have launched Operation Aberlour, to capture the villages of la Bijude, Épron, Galmache, St. Contest, Authie and Cussy but this follow-up operation was cancelled by Crocker. The area of the Châteaux was later called the \"bloodiest square mile in Normandy\".\n\n\"Generalfeldmarschall\" Gerd von Rundstedt, supreme commander of the German forces in the west (OB West), directed on 1 July that Caen should be gradually abandoned and the bulk of the German armoured divisions be shifted to the west end of the beachhead against the US First Army but the city and its surroundings were considered by \"Oberkommando der Wehrmacht\" (\"OKW\", Armed Forces High Command) to be fundamental to the defence of Normandy. \"OKW\" wanted an arc of defensible terrain from the English Channel to the western banks of the Orne to be held and Adolf Hitler sacked Rundstedt and replaced him with \"Generalfeldmarschall\" Günther von Kluge. Learning of this through Ultra, the Allied ground forces commander, General Bernard Montgomery, planned an offensive to capture Caen and to prevent a large redeployment of German forces from the Anglo-Canadian sector to the American front.\n\nOn 4 July, the 3rd Canadian Infantry Division conducted Operation Windsor, to seize Carpiquet and the adjacent airfield from the 12th SS-Panzer Division. Carpiquet fell on 5 July, the airfield remained in German hands.\n\nHaving failed to take Caen through successive flanking manoeuvres, Montgomery decided the next attack would be a frontal assault. Although Caen's strategic importance had vastly diminished since D-Day, he sought control of Bourguébus and the commanding high ground to the south. On 5 July the orders for Operation Charnwood were issued; it was to be launched at 04:20, an hour and a half before dawn on 8 July.\n\nThe objective of Charnwood was to clear Caen of its defenders up to the Orne river and if possible to secure bridgeheads in southern Caen. To achieve the latter it was planned to send an armoured column through the city to rush the bridges; it was hoped that I Corps could exploit the situation to sweep on through southern Caen towards the Verrières and Bourguébus ridges, paving the way for the British Second Army to advance towards Falaise. Historian Roger Cirillo argued the operation was designed to only clear the city of German forces; due to it being cut by both a river and a canal any attempts to make rapid progress through and beyond, were \"in all probability, impossible.\"\n\nCrocker's 115,000-strong I Corps was assigned the task of penetrating to the Orne and Odon rivers. The 3rd Infantry Division would attack on a one brigade front from the north-east, supported by the 33rd Armoured Brigade; the 59th (Staffordshire) Infantry Division would attack on a two brigade front from the north, supported by the 27th Armoured Brigade; and the 3rd Canadian Infantry Division would attack on a one brigade front from the northwest, supported by the 2nd Canadian Armoured Brigade. To maintain the maximum possible pressure on German forces in the sector, VIII Corps was placed on 24 hours notice to launch further attacks to the west of Caen.\n\nIn the light of lessons learned from the partial Canadian success during Operation Windsor, Charnwood was to be launched on a broad front to increase the pressure on the German defences and disperse their defensive fire. SHAEF planners had advised, on 10 June, that the best way to break a stalemate was to use air power to support an attack; this method was to be used for Charnwood as Montgomery enlisted the aid of RAF Bomber Command. Heavy bombers would attack Caen on the night preceding the assault, with 15% of the total bomb load being delayed action bombs set to explode when the ground attack was launched. A second wave of light bombers would follow the heavies and a third wave of American bombers would attack on the morning of the operation.\n\nAdditional support would be provided by rocket firing Typhoon fighter-bombers, the monitor , the light cruisers and and the 16-inch guns of the battleship . Five divisions would contribute 656 guns for bombarding German positions to the south. In all, it was planned that 2,000 tons of bombs would be dropped on Caen before the infantry assault began. Due to the proximity of the target area to the Allied lines and the resulting risk of friendly casualties, the aiming point for the bombers was shifted to the south—beyond most of the main German defences screening the city. Following a long saturation bombardment, the three infantry divisions were to push through the fortified villages in their path and advance directly into Caen's northern suburbs.\n\nCaen's defence fell to two divisions; the 12th SS Panzer Division of I SS Panzer Corps, and the 16th Luftwaffe Field Division of LXXXVI Corps. An assault on the city was expected, and it was assumed that further attacks in the Odon valley towards the Orne river would quickly follow suit. The 12th SS Panzer Division, commanded by Kurt Meyer, consisted of three panzergrenadier regiments including one—the 1st SS Panzergrenadier Regiment—borrowed from the 1st SS Division Leibstandarte SS Adolf Hitler (1st SS Panzer Division). With its 61 surviving tanks 12th SS Panzer was holding the northwest approaches to Caen, defending the city and Carpiquet airfield from the 3rd Canadian and 59th British Infantry Divisions.\n\nThe main German defensive line, a arc of villages from the northeast to the west, was held by the 25th SS Panzergrenadier Regiment and elements of the 12th SS Panzer Regiment. Troops from the 26th SS Panzergrenadier Regiment were holding the western flank, concentrating their strength, which included mortar batteries and a few tanks, in the area around Carpiquet airfield. The 1st SS Panzergrenadier Regiment was occupying a line from Franqueville to the western end of Éterville; the villages formed mutually-supporting strongpoints with dug-in tanks and assault guns, and the defensive line was 2–3 miles (3.2–4.8 km) in depth, supplemented by anti-tank ditches, weapons pits, minefields and other obstacles. The rest of the division, with 35 tanks of the 12th SS Panzer Regiment, were held in reserve, with elements located north, west and south of the city. Most of the division's artillery had been moved back across the Orne, and the divisional command centre had been relocated from the Ardenne Abbey to Abbaye-aux-Dames in the centre of Caen.\n\nThe 16th Luftwaffe Field Division was an inexperienced infantry division that had only recently arrived in Normandy to relieve the 21st Panzer Division of its defence of Caen and its positions east of the Caen canal. The division was under-trained and lacked sufficient anti-tank weapons; to remedy the latter it was reinforced with a tank battalion from 21st Panzer. The Luftwaffe division was deployed on both sides of the Orne, with three battalions holding the villages to the immediate north of the city. The 1st SS Panzer Division was roughly south of Caen with a regiment of dual purpose 88 mm guns from the III Flak Corps. The II \"SS Panzer Corps\" was to the west, with the 10th SS Panzer Division \"Frundsberg\" around south-west of the city.\n\nOn the night of 7 July, 467 Lancaster and Halifax aircraft of RAF Bomber Command attacked Caen, dropping over of bombs on the city. Although intended mainly to facilitate the Anglo-Canadian advance and to prevent German reinforcements from reaching the battle or retreating through Caen, a secondary consideration was the suppression of the German defences. In this the bombing largely failed, the main German armour and infantry positions to the north of Caen remained intact. Several tanks were hit and temporarily disabled but only two Panzer IV of the 12th SS Panzer Division were destroyed. General Miles Dempsey, in command of the British Second Army, was more concerned with the morale-boosting effect of the bombing on his troops, than any material losses it might inflict on the Germans.\n\nThe pathfinders of 625 Squadron, dropping the target markers for the bombers, were instructed not to allow the target zone to \"drift back\" towards the Allied lines as had been the tendency in earlier operations. Together with the cautious shifting of the target zone during the planning stage, many of the markers were dropped too far forward, pushing the bombed zone well into Caen, further away from the German defences. By 22:00 on 7 July, the bombers had departed, leaving 80 percent of the north of Caen destroyed. Caen University was particularly hard hit, starting chemical fires that soon spread. At 22:50, six squadrons of de Havilland Mosquito bombers attacked individual targets and ten minutes later the 636 guns of the assaulting divisions opened fire, with the battleship and other ships adding their support. The bombardment was intensified by the artillery of VIII Corps against the villages north of Caen, to eliminate German strong points before the infantry assault began.\n\nAt 04:30 on 8 July, the artillery of I and VIII Corps shifted their fire deeper into the German defensive belt, along the axes of advance of the 3rd Canadian Division and the 59th (Staffordshire) Infantry Division. As the infantry and armour moved off their start-lines, the barrage slowly crept forward, concentrating its fire on positions in front of the Anglo-Canadian troops; four battalions and two armoured regiments advancing on a two brigade front. At 07:00, 192 B-26 Marauder medium bombers arrived over the battlefield but finding it obscured by cloud only 87 aircraft were able to drop their bombs, totalling . Some bombs landed on the 12th SS Headquarters at Abbaye-aux-Dames.\nCrocker launched the second phase of Operation Charnwood at 07:30, although neither division had yet reached its objectives. The 26th SS Panzergrenadier Regiment was still in control of high ground around the Carpiquet airfield on the right flank of the advance. On the left, facing the relatively weak defences of the 16th Luftwaffe Field Division, the 3rd Infantry Division made good progress. They attacked Lébisey and rapidly pushed through the village, although fighting intensified as the division reached Hérouville. Concerned about the state of the Luftwaffe division, General Heinrich Eberbach, in command of Panzer Group West ordered the 21st Panzer Division to redeploy north-east of Caen in support. The manoeuvre was spotted and when 21st Panzer attempted to cross the Caen Canal, a naval bombardment was directed against them. Facing the possibility of heavy losses, the move was abandoned. In the centre, the 176th Brigade of the 59th Division was encountering much stiffer resistance from the 12th SS Panzer Regiment in Galmanche and la Bijude. The 197th Brigade bypassed Galmanche and by noon had reached St-Contest.\n\nFurther to the west, the 9th Infantry Brigade of the 3rd Canadian Division had been involved in heavy fighting in Buron, which was defended by 200 men from the 12th SS. With support from the 10th Armoured Regiment (The Fort Garry Horse), by noon Buron had been taken, although the Canadian assault companies suffered 60% casualties. South of Buron, a counter-attack by Panzer IV and Panther tanks of the 12th SS Panzer Regiment was defeated by 17pdr SP Achilles self-propelled anti-tank guns and 17-pounder anti tank guns of the 245th Battery, 62nd Antitank Regiment. Thirteen German tanks were destroyed in one of the most successful antitank engagements of the campaign, for the loss of four tank destroyers and a further four damaged. Gruchy was captured with relatively less difficulty, with the 7th Canadian Infantry Brigade encountering only mortar and artillery fire in their drive to Authie. The capture of Authie facilitated the 59th Infantry Division assault on St-Contest and that village fell too, clearing the way for an advance on Caen. In Phase 3 of the operation, the 7th Brigade pushed towards the former headquarters of the 12th SS Panzer Division at Ardenne Abbey, securing the position before midnight.\n\nThe British 3rd Division brushed aside 16th Luftwaffe and approached the outskirts of Caen from the north-east. At 19:15, Meyer and Eberbach authorised the withdrawal of the 12th SS Panzer Division heavy weapons and the remnants of the Luftwaffe division across the Orne to the southern side of Caen. In the early evening, the 12th SS fought a rearguard action against elements of the 59th and 3rd Canadian divisions, as it pulled back from positions no longer considered tenable. Reports of this withdrawal came into the Anglo-Canadian command but patrols probing German positions, created a false perception that no withdrawal was taking place.\n\nBritish and Canadian patrols began to infiltrate the city at dawn on 9 July. The airfield at Carpiquet finally fell into Allied hands during the early morning, when the 3rd Canadian Infantry Division discovered that the 26th SS Panzergrenadier Regiment had withdrawn during the night. With the German situation north of the river becoming increasingly precarious, 21st Panzer Division battle groups and the remaining regiments of the 12th SS Panzer Division conducted a slow withdrawal across the Orne, making for the Verrières and Bourguébus Ridges.\n\nBy noon the 3rd British Infantry Division had reached the Orne's north bank, virtually destroying the elements of the 16th Luftwaffe Field Division, positioned west of the Orne, in the process. A few hours later the British and Canadians met in the centre of the city and by 18:00 the northern half of Caen was firmly under Allied control; all I Corps's objectives had been achieved. A few of Caen's bridges were intact but these were either blocked by rubble or defended by German troops on the south bank and the 1st SS Panzer Division had by now positioned itself to oppose any further advance.\n\nThe 12th SS Panzer Division (by the end of the battle the division's infantry strength had been reduced to that of a battalion)—claimed over the course of two days to have destroyed 103 British and Canadian tanks for the loss of 20. On entering Caen the Anglo-Canadian troops found it in ruins, with four-fifths of the Old City reduced to rubble by the 7 July bombings. The debris that choked the streets made it almost impossible for British armour to manoeuvre through the northern half of the city, preventing Second Army from exploiting I Corps's success. Without possession of the terrain flanking the south of the city, no further gains could be made within Caen so by mid-afternoon on 9 July, Operation Charnwood was over.\n\nThe German were forced to withdraw from the north of the Orne but Allied forces were unable to push beyond the Orne. German forces were dug-in on the opposite bank in position to block a move south. Montgomery called off an advance beyond the Orne as further attacks would be too costly for the gains made, which had inflicted much attrition on the defenders. For French public opinion the operation was a coup; civilians now believed the liberation of France had begun.\n\nAntony Beevor called Operation Charnwood a partial success, because although much of Caen was taken, the British and Canadians failed to secure enough ground to expand the Allied build-up; the bulk of the First Canadian Army was still waiting in the United Kingdom for transfer to Normandy. Carlo D'Este wrote that Charnwood did improve the Second Army's position but without the high ground to the south, Caen was useless, the capture of the city was too little too late a hollow victory. Chester Wilmot wrote that for Montgomery to maintain a threat to German-occupied Paris, Caen's southern suburbs with their factories and communications network would have been a more significant prize. Buckley and Copp note that by the time the city was captured, the Germans—weakened by the battles of late June and early July—had already established defensive positions on the high ground to the south of the Orne, which blocked the route to the Falaise plain\n\nCopp also wrote that the British Second Army won an important operational victory during Charnwood and the Society for Army Historical Research recorded that the attacks were a tactical and operational success. In the aftermath, the Supreme Allied Commander, General Dwight D. Eisenhower expressed his concern that a breakout was unlikely. Montgomery differed; the tenacity of the German defence was no barometer of its longevity. Field Marshal Erwin Rommel mentioned to Lieutenant-Colonel Caesar von Hofacker that the front-line in France could only be held for another three weeks. Hofacker was a member of the German resistance and linked with the Hitler assassination plot and according to Trew, Rommel's comment led to the plot timetable being decided.\nThe serious losses sustained in maintaining a static defence during June led to fractures in the German high command. On 1 July, Panzer Group West commander Leo Geyr von Schweppenburg had been replaced by Heinrich Eberbach, following disagreements with Hitler over how the campaign should be conducted. Gerd von Rundstedt, soon followed, that evening, in a telephone conversation with \"Generalfeldmarschall\" Wilhelm Keitel, head of OKW, von Rundstedt said \"Make peace, you fools.\" Taken to task over his endorsement of von Schweppenburg's recommendation for a withdrawal, he replied \"If you doubt what we're doing, get up here and take over this shambles yourself\". The following morning, informed that perhaps his health was \"no longer up to the task\", von Rundstedt resigned and was succeeded as OB West by Günther von Kluge. The costly battles in and around Caen and Saint-Lô convinced both Eberbach and von Kluge that their predecessors had been correct. The Germans had suffered heavily, leading Hitler to order Army Group B to temporarily abandon big counter-attacks and go over to the defensive until more reinforcements could arrive to bolster the front.\n\nTrew contends that the capture of northern Caen had a psychological impact on the French population, convincing them the Allies were there to stay and that the liberation of France could not be far off. By Operation Charnwood's conclusion, Allied losses since 6 June had amounted to over 30,000 men, excluding those who had been evacuated due to sickness and those suffering from battle exhaustion. Buckley believes Charnwood to have been a good idea but one that proved better in concept than in execution, influenced as it was by the mounting political pressure on 21st Army Group to produce results. Copp wrote that the broad-based assault plan across the entire front worked, preventing the Germans bringing to bear superior firepower on any one formation.\nCopp wrote that Charnwood should have produced a rapid breakthrough but concedes that the battle was one of the most difficult of the campaign. Buckley singles out poor cooperation between armoured and infantry units as one of the reasons for such high Allied losses; he is critical of the habit of tanks standing off from German positions and firing the infantry onto the objective like artillery, instead of moving forward to give close support. He further notes that from the German perspective, the Anglo-Canadian forces apparently lacked the desire or ability to press home their advantages, citing Kurt Meyer's opinion that during the battle the Allies allowed the opportunity of destroying his 12th SS Panzer Division to elude them. Buckley comments on the defensive power of the British and Canadian formations. The German practice of conducting immediate local counter-attacks to retake lost ground cost them many of their best troops, losses they could ill-afford. He illustrates this with a typical action during which the Germans lost 13 tanks to British self-propelled anti-tank guns.\n\nWith Caen north of the River Orne in Allied hands, mine-clearance operations were launched, bulldozers were set to work to clear the streets and a convoy of trucks carrying supplies for the civilian population was brought in. On 10 July, the French flag was raised over the city and three days later a parade was held in the Place Saint-Martin during which a second flag was raised to the strains of Scottish bagpipers playing La Marseillaise.\n\nRommel and Eberbach consolidated defensive positions in and around southern Caen, the 1st, 9th and 12th SS Panzer Divisions turning the Bourguébus and Verrières Ridges into formidable barriers. Having committed all of his armoured reserves, Rommel transferred the remainder of his infantry divisions—the 708th, 276th, 277th and 272nd—to the Anglo-Canadian front. On 8 July, he released the remnants of the \"Panzer Lehr\" Division and the 2nd SS Panzer Division \"Das Reich\" to the American sector. At the start of the campaign, \"Panzer-Lehr\" was one of the most powerful armoured formations in the German army, by this stage it had been reduced to a number of battlegroups and was no longer operational as a division. On 17 July, Rommel's staff car was strafed by British fighters, severely injuring the Field Marshal and confining him to hospital. Two days later he was replaced as Army Group B commander by Field Marshal Günther von Kluge. Rommel never returned to Normandy; implicated in the 20 July plot against Hitler, on 14 October he was forced to commit suicide.\nCaen's partial capture allowed General Omar Bradley, commander of the First US Army, to accelerate his plans for a breakout. Shortly after Charnwood the US VII Corps attacked German positions in Saint-Lô, which the 2nd SS Panzer Division had been ordered to \"hold at all costs\". On 18 July, after eight days of fighting during which 95 percent of the town was destroyed and VII Corps had more than 5,000 casualties, Saint-Lô fell to the Americans.\n\nThe same day, the Second Army began Operation Goodwood with from in the largest armoured battle in British military history. VIII Corps (Lieutenant-General Richard O'Connor) spearheaded the drive towards the Bourguébus Ridge with three armoured divisions, supported by I Corps. After a preliminary attack by 1,056 heavy bombers, elements of the 11th, Guards and 7th Armoured Division assaulted the positions of LXXXVI Corps north of Bourguébus but despite early gains of around , strong resistance prevented VIII Corps taking the ridge. Simultaneously, Lieutenant General Guy Simonds's newly activated II Canadian Corps launched an offensive on the Verrières Ridge, codenamed Operation Atlantic. II Corps ran into fierce opposition; during the seven-day battle that followed the Canadians sustained 2,800 casualties. Verrières Ridge would remain in German hands until 8 August.\n\nThe British and Commonwealth system of battle honours recognises the battle by the award to 55 units of the honour \"Caen\", for participation in the capture of Caen between 4–18 July 1944. Awarded from 1956 to 1959, the recognition was accompanied by honours for taking part in Operation Charnwood. For participating in the capture of Caen between 8–9 July three units were awarded the honour \"Orne\", nine the honour \"The Orne\", and two the honour \"The Orne (Buron)\".\n\nHastings wrote that the bombing came to be seen by many as \"one of the most futile air attacks of the war\" and Beevor called the attack a \"disaster\". Reynolds judged the results of the bombing as \"pathetic\" and D'Este wrote that the bombing hindered the Allied push into the city. Air Commodore E. J. Kingston-McCloughry and Solly Zuckerman conducted a survey and concluded that no targets of military value had been attacked, nor were there any gun positions, tanks or German dead in the target zone. They interviewed men of the 3rd Infantry Division, who were reportedly bewildered as to why the bombers had been employed. The 3rd Division historian, wrote that in the wake of the air-raid the men\n\nThe Canadian Official Historian, C. P. Stacey wrote that several Canadian formations reported an increase in morale. Wilmot wrote that the bombing was essential because it raised the morale of the Second Army and depressed that of the German defenders. A 21st Army Group intelligence report, based on the interrogation of German prisoners recorded that the raid was \"decisive\" and had apparently destroyed the headquarters of the Luftwaffe infantry regiment based north of Caen and deprived the German troops north of the city of ammunition and rations the following morning. Gray wrote that the bombing had an effect on the morale of both sides but that this was temporary. L. F. Ellis, the British Official Historian, Trew and Badsey all wrote that the raid was intended to cut off German reinforcements from the battlefield and hinder an attempt to withdraw south of the Orne river. Stacey wrote that it was \"obvious and desirable\" that for maximum advantage, the Allied ground forces should have advanced on the heels of the attack. Gray concluded that no-one \"can[not] satisfactorily answer the question 'why'\" the city was bombed.\n\nAnalysis by Operational Research Section Number 2 (ORS2) concluded that the bombing of the first aiming point north-west of Caen was accurate, finding that the centre of the 90 percent zone (the area where 90 percent of the bombs fell) was east of the aiming point, with some spillage to the south and west. Examination of the area after its capture, indicated some destruction of German equipment, including the wreckage of ten of the forty trucks believed to be in the area at the time of the raid. The 48 hours that elapsed between the bombing and the Allied occupation of the area, allowed the Germans time to recover from any shock and disorientation and to salvage some damaged equipment. Examination of the second aiming point, \"Northern Caen\", failed to reveal a 90 percent zone but it was noted that the obstructive effect of bombing a suburb was significant and had caused substantial delays to vehicles of both sides, by cratering and blocking roads. ORS2 concluded that the success of Charnwood owed little to the bombing and made recommendations including changing to instantly fused bombs, dropping larger numbers of smaller anti-personnel bombs and rapidly following-up a bombardment with ground forces to take advantage of its main effect, which was the temporary suppression of German will to resist. In Operation Goodwood, Operation Bluecoat, Operation Cobra, Operation Totalize and Operation Tractable the 21st Army Group exploited better the effect of preparatory attacks by strategic bombers by following-up the attacks immediately.\nThe British initially announced that around 6,000 civilians had been killed during the air-raid and a Soviet war correspondent attached to the 21st Army Group, Lieutenant-Colonel Kraminov, put the figure as high as 22,000, a claim that was used by French communists in post-war anti-British propaganda. It was later found that 300–400 civilians were killed in the raid. Caen citizens were relieved and provided their liberators with a welcome that the troops found very moving; French accounts of the time claim that \"All [of] Caen was in the streets to greet them\". Although Ellis called the French welcome \"pathetic\", no Allied unit recorded any complaints about the reception they were given. Stacey wrote that the populace were \"particularly delighted to find their city freed in part by men from Canada\". Beevor wrote that most of the population were numb from the shock and quoted a British soldier who recalled that \"most ... women were crying, grief-stricken and anguished\". As early as 12 June, the French Resistance had sent messengers to the British, informing them that refugees were gathering in the areas around the Abbaye-aux-Hommes and the Hôpital du Bon Sauveur and requested that these locations not to be bombed; British assurances were given and these locations were nearly untouched. Gray wrote that after the war, the city population regarded itself as being martyred, which could be seen on the war memorial.\n\nOn 10 July, the 43rd (Wessex) Infantry Division attacked the positions of the 10th SS Panzer Division to the southwest of Caen on Hill 112. Preceded by a two-day bombardment that included support from naval vessels and Hawker Typhoons, the assault was designed to threaten Caen from the west and push back the 10th SS Panzer Division, securing an avenue for future offensives. The 43rd Wessex began their assault at dawn on 10 July, supported by two armoured brigades. By 08:00, British tanks and infantry were engaged with the 10th SS Panzer and \"well up\" the slopes of Hill 112. Eterville was taken around mid-morning; as the 4th Armoured Brigade and 43rd Wessex pressed their attack, Panzer Group West commander General Eberbach insisted that \"Hill 112 is the pivotal point of the whole position West of Caen, and must therefore be held\".\n\nThe 102nd SS Heavy Panzer Battalion and the 1st SS Panzer Division were committed to its defence. The 4th Armoured Brigade reached the summit but in the evening were counter-attacked by remnants of the 1st and 12th SS Panzer Divisions. The British offensive resumed the following day with the support of anti-tank regiments from the Second Army; these had heavy losses in a counter-attack by the 102nd SS Heavy Panzer Battalion. Hill 112 was briefly taken by a battalion of the Duke of Cornwall's Light Infantry, only to be lost to further German counter-attacks in the late afternoon. By the evening of 11 July, with both sides exhausted and having suffered heavily the offensive had reached a stalemate. The 43rd (Wessex) Infantry Division and its supporting armour had suffered two thousand casualties in the two days of fighting.\n\n"}
{"id": "2001347", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001347", "title": "Glasgow Police Pipe Band", "text": "Glasgow Police Pipe Band\n\nGlasgow Police Pipe Band is a grade one pipe band from Glasgow, Scotland. Founded in 1883 as the Burgh of Govan Police Pipe Band, the band enjoyed its greatest competitive success as the Strathclyde Police Pipe Band.\n\nThe band was one of the first civilian bands in Britain when it formed in 1883 as the Burgh of Govan Police Pipe Band. The first pipe major was William Bremer, who was succeeded by Walter Drysdale in 1890, who was in turn succeeded by Alexander Hutcheon in 1898. The band enjoyed a good reputation, and was recognised nationally for its quality. It wore a tartan designed by the Chief Constable, and played two concerts annually to raise funds.\n\nGovan was annexed into Glasgow along with Partick in 1912, and the band became the City of Glasgow Police Pipe Band. In 1913 William Gray, a Gold Medal winner, replaced Hutcheon as pipe major, and the tartan was also replaced with the Royal Stewart. The band won its first World Championship in 1920, but due to Gray's focus on events other than competition the next time the band won the Worlds was 1936.\n\nGray was succeeded in 1932 by John MacDonald, a student of Gray for many years and also a Gold Medal winner, having won at both the Argyllshire Gathering and the Northern Meeting within a week. Under MacDonald, the band won the World Championships in 1936, 1937, 1938 and 1939, and after the Second World War in 1946, 1949 and 1951.\n\nAngus MacDonald succeeded John MacDonald in 1958, and rebuilt the band after the loss of senior players through retirement had reduced the band's competitiveness. Under Angus MacDonald the band won every major championship except the Worlds. \n\nRonald Lawrie succeeded Angus MacDonald as pipe major in 1967, but due to ill health Lawrie was succeeded by Ian MacLellan in 1972. In 1975, Strathclyde Police was formed by the merger of several police forces to form the second-largest police force in Britain, and the respective bands were merged into the Strathclyde Police Pipe Band under the leadership of Ian MacLellan.\n\nUnder MacLellan and leading drummer Alex Connell the band won the World Championships in 1976 and 1979, being placed second to Dysart and Dundonald in 1977 and 1978. Strathclyde Police then won every year from 1981 to 1986, and then four consecutive times from 1988 to 1991. In 1987, the 78th Fraser Highlanders Pipe Band from Canada became the first band based outside Scotland to win the title, and Simon Fraser University, also from Canada, came second, pushing Strathclyde Police into third place. The run of six consecutive wins remains a record, as does the twenty total wins accumulated throughout the band's history.\n\nMacLellan retired in 1992 and was succeeded by Harry McAleer, who led the band until 1996 when he was succeeded by Ian Plunkett. Plunkett was succeeded by James Wark in 2001, who was in turn succeeded by Donald Mackay in 2004, and Don Bradford became pipe major in 2008 after Mackay stood down.\n\nIn 2009, funding cuts and a restriction on the number of events the band could play at threatened the future of the Strathclyde Police Pipe Band. Bradford and pipe-sergeant Duncan Nicholson resigned in protest, but returned in January 2010 after a new funding agreement was reached. \n\nDuncan Nicholson succeeded Bradford in as pipe major in 2010. In 2013, territorial police forces in Scotland were merged into Police Scotland and the name of the band changed to Greater Glasgow Police Scotland Pipe Band, but the structure of the band was unchanged. In 2016, David Henderson replaced Ward as leading drummer, and the name of the band was changed to Glasgow Police Pipe Band.\n\n\n\nas City of Glasgow Police Pipe Band\n\nas Strathclyde Police Pipe Band\n\nas Greater Glasgow Police Scotland Pipe Band\n\n"}
{"id": "2001348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001348", "title": "Minimum Age Convention, 1973", "text": "Minimum Age Convention, 1973\n\nThe ILO Convention concerning Minimum Age for Admission to Employment C138, is a convention adopted in 1973 by the International Labour Organization. It requires ratifying states to pursue a national policy designed to ensure the effective abolition of child labour and to raise progressively the minimum age for admission to employment or work. Convention C138 replaces several similar ILO conventions in specific fields of labour.\n\nCountries are free to specify a minimum age for labour, with a minimum of 15 years. A declaration of 14 years is also possible when for a specified period of time. Laws may also permit light work for children aged 13–15 (not harming their health or school work). The minimum age of 18 years is specified for work which \"is likely to jeopardise the health, safety or morals of young persons\". Definitions of the type of work and derogations are only possible after tripartite consultations (if such a system exists in the ratifying country).\n\nThe convention is a revision of several conventions for workers in specific areas. Upon entry into force, some of these conventions were closed for ratification and becoming a party to this convention automatically resulted in denunciation of the older ones. An overview of older minimum age conventions of ILO is shown below:\nILO Convention C138 entered into force one year after deposition of the first two ratifications (Cuba and Libya). As of January 2018 171 countries have signed Convention C138. Initially, however, the pace of ratification of this convention was extremely slow. Therefore, an alternative Convention with a more limited scope was initiated in 1999. It concerns ILO Convention 182 concerning the Prohibition and Immediate Action for the Elimination of the Worst Forms of Child Labour.\n\nConvention C138 enters into force for a ratifying country one year after ratification. This can be denounced every 10 years in the year after 10 years have passed (e.g. – ).\n"}
{"id": "2001349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001349", "title": "Pontus Kåmark", "text": "Pontus Kåmark\n\nPontus Kåmark (born 5 April 1969) is a Swedish former footballer. He played for AIK, Leicester City, IFK Göteborg and Västerås SK.\n\nBorn in Västerås, Västmanlands län, Kåmark, a defender, was part of the third-place Swedish squad at the 1994 FIFA World Cup. An injury to his cruciate ligament caused him to miss Euro 2000. Kåmark played for Sweden in the 2002 FIFA World Cup qualifying, but was not selected for the final squad.\nHe made 57 appearances for Sweden, but never scored for his country.\n\nToday Kåmark works as a pundit for Viasat.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2001357", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001357", "title": "Doki-Doki (short film)", "text": "Doki-Doki (short film)\n\nDoki-Doki is a Japanese short film that addresses the themes of isolation and disconnectness amidst the crowded subways cars of Japan. It was released in 2003 and directed by Chris Eska. \"Doki-Doki\" had its premiere U.S. broadcast on PBS's \"Independent Lens\" series on December 21, 2004 (introduction by Susan Sarandon).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2001362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001362", "title": "David Marshall (British politician)", "text": "David Marshall (British politician)\n\nDavid Marshall (born 7 May 1941) is a Labour politician in the United Kingdom who was Member of Parliament (MP) for Glasgow East in Scotland from 1979 to 2008.\n\nDavid Marshall was educated variously at the Larbert High School, Denny High School, Woodside Senior Secondary School and Falkirk High School.\n\nHe has been a member of the Transport and General Workers' Union since 1960 and a member of the Labour Party since 1962. He worked in Glasgow as a Labour Party organiser from 1969, before becoming a full-time councillor. He was for three years, from 1972 a member of Glasgow City Council, and a member of Strathclyde Regional Council from 1974 until his election to Parliament.\n\nHe was elected as a Labour MP at the 1979 general election for Glasgow Shettleston following the retirement of Myer Galpern. He represented that constituency from then until the 2005 election, at which point he was elected from Glasgow East. He did not reach the front bench in his long parliamentary career, but served on many select committees, including chairing both the Transport (1987–1992) and Scotland committees (1992–1997). He was latterly a member of the Chairman's Panel.\n\nOn 27 June 2008 it was reported that he would stand down due to ill health. These reports have also linked his ill health with stress brought on by predictions that his parliamentary expenses were to be investigated. On 30 June he was appointed Steward and Bailiff of the Manor of Northstead, confirming his resignation.\n\nHe is married with a son and a daughter.\n\n"}
{"id": "2001375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001375", "title": "Social conflict", "text": "Social conflict\n\nSocial conflict is the struggle for agency or power in society.\nSocial conflict occurs when two or more actors oppose each other in social interaction, each exerts social power with reciprocity in an effort to achieve incompatible goals whilst preventing the other from attaining their own. It is a social relationship wherein action is intentionally oriented to carry out the actor's own will despite the resistance of others.\n\nConflict theory emphasizes interests, rather than norms and values, in conflict. The pursuit of interests generates various types of conflict. Thus conflict is seen as a normal aspect of social life rather than an abnormal occurrence. Competition over resources is often the cause of conflict. The three tenets of this theory are the following: 1) Society is composed of different groups that compete for resources. 2) While societies may portray a sense of cooperation, a continual power struggle exists between social groups as they pursue their own interests. Within societies, certain groups control specific resources and means of production. 3) Social groups will use resources to their own advantage in the pursuit of their goals. This often means that those who lack control over resources will be taken advantage of. As a result, many dominated groups will struggle with other groups in an attempt to gain control. The majority of the time, the groups with the most resources will gain or maintain power (due to the fact that they have the resources to support their power). The idea that those who have control will maintain control is known as The Matthew Effect.\n\nOne branch of conflict theory is critical criminology. This term is based upon the view that the fundamental cause of crime is oppression, resulting from social and economic forces operating within a given society. This perspective stems from German philosopher, Karl Marx, who knew the justice system and laws was in favour of the rich and powerful in a society and that the poor are punished far more severely for much smaller crimes.\n\nAnother branch of conflict theory is the conflict theory of aging. This came about in the 1980s due to a setback in federal spending and a loss of jobs across the nation; the older generations competed with the younger generation for employment. Among those that were the worst affected were women, low-income families, and minorities.\n\nIn the Critique of the Political Economy Marx writes:\nIn the social production of their existence, men inevitably enter into definite relations, which are independent of their will, namely the economic structure of society, the real foundation, on which arises a legal and political superstructure and to which correspond definite forms of social consciousness. The mode of production of material life conditions the general process of social, political and intellectual life. It is not the consciousness of men that determines their existence, but their social existence that determines their consciousness. At some stage of development, the material productive forces of society come into conflict with the existing relations of production or – this merely expresses the same thing in legal terms – with the property relations within the framework of which they have operated hitherto. From forms of development of the productive forces these relations turn into their fetters (legcuffs). Then begins an era of social revolution. The changes in the economic foundation lead sooner or later to the transformation of the whole immense superstructure.\n\nIn studying such transformations it is always necessary to distinguish between the material transformation of the economic conditions of production, which can be determined with the precision of natural science, and the legal, political, religious, artistic or philosophic – in short, ideological forms in which men become conscious of this conflict and fight it out. Just as one does not judge an individual by what he thinks about himself, so one cannot judge such a period of transformation by its consciousness, but, on the contrary, this consciousness must be explained from the contradictions of material life, from the conflict existing between the social forces of production and the relations of production. No social order is ever destroyed before all the productive forces for which it is sufficient to have been developed, and new superior relations of production never replace older ones before the material conditions for their existence have matured within the framework of the old society.\n\nMankind thus inevitably sets itself only such tasks as it is able to solve since closer examination will always show that the problem itself arises only when the material conditions for its solution are already present or at least in the course of formation. In broad outline, the Asiatic, ancient,[A] feudal and modern bourgeois modes of production may be designated as epochs marking progress in the economic development of society. The bourgeois mode of production is the last antagonistic form of the social process of production – antagonistic not in the sense of individual antagonism but of an antagonism that emanates from the individuals' social conditions of existence – but the productive forces developing within bourgeois society create also the material conditions for a solution of this antagonism. The prehistory of human society accordingly closes with this social formation.\nhttp://www.marxists.org/archive/marx/works/1859/critique-pol-economy/preface.htm\n\nKarl Marx, a German revolutionary, emphasized his materialist views on ownership and means of production. He argued that what is most valued is a result of human labour and founded his ideas based on a capitalistic community, meaning a majority of the money is owned by only a small percentage. This causes a distinction between two classes, the industrialists and the working class. The industrialists, the ones that make up the small percentage, own the means of production. The working class are those earning their wages by selling their labour. Problems become noticeable because the upper class is looking to get the most production possible for the least amount of money. Surplus value is created; the profit industrialists hold on to caused by workers producing more than the employers actually need to repay the cost of hiring labourers. Another occurrence is exploitation; when workers receive less money than what their labour is worth. Marx believed that the gap between industrialists and the labourers would continue to grow. The industrialists would become more and more wealthy, and the labourers continue to move towards poverty. Conflict theory is seen throughout relationships and interactions between two groups of people including races, opposite sexes, and religions.\n\nMax Weber and Karl Marx have two different approaches to the conflict theory. Marx supports the ideas of deviance, claiming that individuals choose to engage in such rebellious and conflicting behaviour as a response to the inequalities of the capitalist system. Weber discusses the conflict of stratification and its effects on power in society. He stresses property, prestige, and power as the main influences to the conflicting behaviours of groups in society.\n\nKarl Marx argued:\n\"The worker becomes all the poorer the more wealth he produces, the more his production increases in power and range. The worker becomes an ever cheaper commodity the more commodities he creates. With the increasing value of the world of things proceeds in direct proportion to the devaluation of the world of men. Labour produces not only commodities; it produces itself and the worker as a commodity -- and does so in the proportion in which it produces commodities generally.\"\n\nA commodity is a social use value produced by its owner not for personal consumption but for exchange. Marx believed that an entrepreneur has more and more to keep up with the more his company and power expands. It becomes more difficult each time his range of power increases. Eventually, the entrepreneur himself will become a commodity because he/she will no longer be able to keep up with their business and will have to put themselves (their company) up for sale on the market.\n\nStratification is the distribution of a valued good in levels or could be seen as the inequalities among individuals and groups. Weber determined that there are three levels of stratification and those include: property (economic class), prestige (status), and power (party). Property is related to control and ownership; prestige is the position that gains value determined by interactions with others; power is influence, relations, and position.\n\nThese systems share 3 characteristics. They are as follows:\n\nConflict of interest is a type of conflict interest. We can define a conflict of interest as a situation in which a person has a private or personal interest sufficient to appear to influence the objective exercise of his or her official duties as, say, a public official, an employee, or a professional.\n\"Social conflict is not limited to hostile or antagonistic opposition; it is not wholly a clash of coercive powers as often is implied but of any opposing social powers. Social conflict is usually recognized through violence and physical behaviour. Yet it's more than just fighting, and killing one another. At times it can deal with it throw a simple town in a conversation. It is acknowledged by someone's power.\"\n\nLewis A. Coser, a sociologist, disagrees with the majority of American sociologists who, he contends, have badly neglected and misunderstood the concept and function of social conflict. He defines social conflict as '… a struggle over the values and claims to scarce status, power and resources in which the aims of the opponents are to neutralize, injure, or eliminate their rivals'. He believes that the prevalent tendency is to look upon conflict as dysfunctional and pathological.\n\nTypes of social conflict:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2001376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001376", "title": "Route 10A (Vermont–New Hampshire)", "text": "Route 10A (Vermont–New Hampshire)\n\nRoute 10A is a east-west highway connecting the towns of Norwich, Vermont and Hanover, New Hampshire. The route exists as Vermont Route 10A and New Hampshire Route 10A, with each designation carrying about half of the route's length. The route begins in Norwich at an interchange with Interstate 91 and U.S. Route 5 and runs east, crossing the state line and continuing into downtown Hanover, where it ends at New Hampshire Route 10.\n\nRoute 10A is a spur route of New Hampshire Route 10 and its extension in Vermont is unrelated to Vermont Route 10.\n\nVT 10A begins at the exit 13 interchange where I-91 and US 5 meet south of the town of Norwich. From this interchange, it heads east towards the Connecticut River for . It crosses the Ledyard Bridge over the river and enters Hanover, New Hampshire where it becomes NH 10A (West Wheelock Street). NH 10A continues east for before ending at NH 10 in downtown Hanover near Dartmouth College.\n\nNH 10A is the shortest state highway in New Hampshire.\n"}
{"id": "2001377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001377", "title": "New Hampshire Route 11", "text": "New Hampshire Route 11\n\nNew Hampshire Route 11 is a east–west state highway in New Hampshire, running completely across the central part of the state. Its western terminus is at the Vermont state line in Charlestown, where it continues west as Vermont Route 11. The eastern terminus is at the Maine state line in Rochester, where it crosses the border with U.S. Route 202 and continues as Maine State Route 11.\n\nIts number is derived from its original 1925 designation as New England Interstate Route 11.\n\nThe highway follows a generally southwest to northeast alignment from the Vermont state line until reaching Lake Winnipesaukee, then turns southeast for the remainder of its routing to the Maine state line.\n\nThere are 4 auxiliary routes, labeled 11A through 11D.\n\nNH 11 begins on the western bank of the Connecticut River, where VT 11 crosses from Springfield, Vermont, into Charlestown, New Hampshire, just feet from its intersection with US 5. Just north of the town center, the highway meets and joins NH 12 north towards Claremont. NH 11 and NH 12 are cosigned for . NH 12A, a western bypass of downtown Claremont, splits off just south of the city line. In downtown Claremont NH 11 leaves NH 12 and NH 103 joins eastbound, starting a longer concurrency. The two highways cross the Sugar River and meet the southern terminus of NH 120 before continuing east towards Newport. In downtown Newport, NH 11 and 103 briefly join NH 10 before turning east again to leave town. The two routes continue east for another before NH 103 splits off to the southeast.\n\nNH 11 continues east into Sunapee until reaching the town center, where it meets NH 103B, a connector to the Mount Sunapee Resort. NH 11 turns northward along the western side of Lake Sunapee and rounds the northern end of the lake at Georges Mills, turning back to the east. NH 11 enters the town of New London, meets the northern terminus of NH 103A (which runs along the east side of the lake) and immediately turns onto Interstate 89 south (at exit 12). NH 11 runs along I-89 for before departing at exit 11. After leaving I-89, NH 11 continues east, crossing NH 114 before entering the town of Wilmot. Continuing east into Andover, the highway meets the southern terminus of NH 4A then joins US 4 for . NH 11 then splits off, continuing northeast into Franklin. The road meets NH 3A near the west bank of the Pemigewasset River, and NH 11 turns south along NH 3A into downtown Franklin.\n\nUpon reaching the town center, NH 3A ends while NH 11 turns east joining US 3 and NH 127 to cross the Pemigewasset where it meets the Merrimack River. NH 127 immediately splits off to the north, then US 3 and NH 11 continue east across the Winnipesaukee River, paralleling it into Tilton. In the center of Tilton, the road intersects with NH 132 just feet north of the Northfield town line. NH 132 joins US 3 and NH 11 as the road turns northeast, continuing to parallel the Winnipesaukee River's west side. The highway interchanges with Interstate 93 near the western terminus of NH 140, then NH 132 splits off to the north. Continuing northeast, US 3 and NH 11 cross Winnisquam Lake and skirt the northern tip of Belmont. Just before reaching the city line with Laconia, US 3 and NH 11 split off onto the Gilford-Laconia Bypass, a freeway bypass of those two towns (the historic surface alignment continues into downtown as NH 11A and unsigned US 3 Business). The freeway bypasses downtown Laconia to the south, interchanging with NH 106 and NH 107 before crossing into Gilford, where the road turns due north and interchanges with NH 11A. The freeway ends to the north, near Laconia Airport, and NH 11 splits off from US 3 after a concurrency.\n\nAfter splitting from US 3, NH 11 intersects with two of its \"child\" routes, NH 11C and NH 11B, as it heads towards Lake Winnipesaukee. The highway turns southeast along the southern end of the lake and crosses into the town of Alton. NH 11 intersects the eastern terminus of NH 11A before continuing south along the west side of Alton Bay. This section of the highway has views of the bay and of Lake Winnipesaukee as a whole. NH 11D provides local residential access along this semi-limited access section. NH 11 descends into Alton village and intersects with NH 28A, which runs up the eastern side of the bay. NH 11 and NH 28A are cosigned through the downtown area, passing the eastern terminus of NH 140 before meeting NH 28 at a large roundabout, where NH 28A ends. NH 11 continues southeast through New Durham without any major intersections before continuing into Farmington. NH 11 bypasses downtown Farmington to the southwest, with NH 75 and NH 153 providing local access. The highway continues southeast and crosses into the city of Rochester. NH 11 as a standalone route ends at its interchange with the Spaulding Turnpike (NH 16) and US 202, where it leaves its surface alignment and joins the Turnpike at exit 15. NH 11 exits the Turnpike at exit 16 with US 202 after less than and interchanges with NH 125, which provides local access to downtown Rochester. US 202 and NH 11 continue through the district of East Rochester before crossing the Salmon Falls River into Lebanon, Maine. US 202 continues across the border while NH 11 becomes Maine State Route 11, which is signed as a north-south highway.\n\nNew Hampshire Route 11A is a east–west state highway. Its western terminus is at US 3 and NH 11 in Belmont, just west of the Laconia city line. Its eastern terminus is in the town of Alton at NH 11. Its western section in downtown Laconia is overlapped by the unsigned US 3 Business and then NH 107.\n\nNH 11A passes through the center of the town of Gilford. Gunstock Mountain Resort, a ski area, is also along the route.\n\nNew Hampshire Route 11B, also known as \"NH 11 Business\", is a north–south state highway in the Lakes Region. Its northern terminus is at US 3 in the city of Laconia on the shore of Lake Winnipesaukee. The southern terminus is at NH 11A in the town of Gilford.\n\nNew Hampshire Route 11C is a short north–south state highway running for entirely in the town of Gilford. Its southern terminus is at NH 11, just east of the northern end of the US 3 / NH 11 Super 2 freeway, and near the Laconia Municipal Airport. The northern terminus is at NH 11B. The road is named Lily Pond Road along its entire length.\n\nNew Hampshire Route 11D is a short state highway running for entirely in the town of Alton. It acts as a local-traffic loop parallel to NH 11 along Alton Bay.\n\n"}
{"id": "2001378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001378", "title": "Bryostatin", "text": "Bryostatin\n\nBryostatins are a group of macrolide lactones from the marine organism \"Bugula neritina\" that were first collected and provided to JL Hartwell’s anticancer drug discovery group at the National Cancer Institute (NCI) by Jack Rudloe. Bryostatins are potent modulators of protein kinase C. They have been studied in clinical trials as anti-cancer agents, as anti-AIDS/HIV agents and in people with Alzheimer's disease.\n\nBryostatin 1 is a potent modulator of protein kinase C (PKC).\n\nIt showed activity in laboratory tests in cells and model animals, so it was brought into clinical trials. As of 2014 over thirty clinical trials had been conducted, using bryostatin alone and in combination with other agents, in both solid tumors and blood tumors; it did not show a good enough risk:benefit ratio to be advanced further.\n\nIt showed enough promise in animal models of Alzheimer's disease that a Phase II trial was started by 2010; the trial was sponsored by the Blanchette Rockefeller Neurosciences Institute. Scientists from that institute started a company called Neurotrope, and launched another clinical trial in Alzheimer's disease, preliminary results of which were released in 2017. \n\nBryostatin has also been studied in people with HIV.\n\nBryostatin 1 was first isolated in the 1960s by George Pettit from extracts of a species of bryozoan, \"Bugula neritina\", based on research from samples originally provided by Jack Rudloe to Jonathan L. Hartwell’s anticancer drug discovery group at the National Cancer Institute (NCI). The structure of bryostatin 1 was determined in 1982. As of 2010 20 different bryostatins had been isolated.\n\nThe low concentration in bryozoans (to extract one gram of bryostatin, roughly one tonne of the raw bryozoans is needed) makes extraction unviable for large scale production. Due to the structural complexity, total synthesis has proved difficult, with only a few total syntheses reported so far. Total syntheses have been published for bryostatins 1, 2, 3, 7, 9 and 16. Among them, Wender’s total synthesis of bryostatin 1 is the shortest synthesis of any bryostatin reported, to date.\n\nA number of structurally simpler synthetic analogs also have been prepared which exhibit similar biological profile and in some cases greater potency, which may provide a practical supply for clinical use.\n\nIn B. Neritina, bryostatin biosynthesis is carried out through a type I polyketide synthase cluster, bry. BryR is the secondary metabolism homolog of HMG-CoA synthase, which is the PKS in bacterial primary metabolism. In the bryostatin pathway, the BryR module catalyzes β-Branching between a local acetoacetyl acceptor acyl carrier protein (ACP-a) and an appropriate donor BryU acetyl-ACP (ACP-d).\n\nThe first step involves the loading of a malonyl unit onto a discrete BryU ACP-d within an initial BryA module. The extended BryU product in BryA is then loaded onto a cysteine sidechain of BryR for interaction with ACP-a. Upon interaction, BryR then catalyzes β-Branching, facilitating an aldol reaction between the alpha-carbon of the BryU unit and the β-ketone of ACP-a, yielding a product similar to HMGS products in primary metabolism. After β-Branching, subsequent dehydration by a BryT enoyl-CoA hydratase homolog (ECH), as well as BryA O-methylation and BryB double bond isomerization of the generated HMGS product, are carried out in specific domains of the bry cluster. These post-β-Branching steps generate the vinyl methylester moieties which are found in all natural product bryostatins. Finally, BryC and BryD are responsible for further extension, pyran ring closure, and cyclization of the HMGS product to produce the novel bryostatin product.\n\nIn the presence of BryR, ACP-d conversion to holo-ACP-d was observed prior to β-Branching. BryR was shown to have high specificity for ACP-d only after this conversion. Specificity for these protein-bound groups is a feature that differentiates the HMGS homologs found in primary metabolism, where HMGS typically acts on substrates linked to Coenzyme A, from those found in non-ribosomal peptide synthase (NRPS) or PKS pathways such as the bryostatin pathway.\n\n"}
{"id": "2001388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001388", "title": "Geeks (film)", "text": "Geeks (film)\n\nGeeks is a 2004 film that examines why people acquire an interest in \"geeky\" subjects such as Japanese Anime, \"Star Wars\", \"Star Trek\", and the film \"The Nightmare Before Christmas\".\n"}
{"id": "2001394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001394", "title": "Midnight Lace", "text": "Midnight Lace\n\nMidnight Lace is a 1960 American Eastmancolor neo noir mystery thriller film directed by David Miller, and stars Doris Day and Rex Harrison about a woman who is threatened by a stalker. The screenplay by Ivan Goff and Ben Roberts is based on the play \"Matilda Shouted Fire\" by Janet Green.\n\nThe film was remade as a television film by Universal Television for NBC in 1981.\n\nNewlywed American heiress Kit Preston (Doris Day) is living with her financier husband Tony (Rex Harrison) on Grosvenor Square in London. Returning home in a dense fog, she is startled by an eerie, electronic-like voice threatening to kill her. The voice calls her by name and torments her as she runs to escape. Tony tries to convince her she has been the victim of a practical joker and suggests they travel to Venice for the honeymoon they never had.\n\nThe next day, Kit comes to Tony's office to go for lunch and shows him her recent purchases, including a nightgown called \"Midnight Lace\" which interests Tony. However, business matters force Tony to cancel the lunch with her at the last minute. As she returns home, a falling girder from the construction site adjacent to her building nearly hits Kit, but she is pushed to safety by contractor Brian Younger (John Gavin), who startles her when he addresses her by name. Inside she encounters Malcolm Stanley (Roddy McDowall), her maid Nora's (Doris Lloyd) shiftless son, whose unctuous behavior annoys her.\n\nJust after he leaves, Kit receives a phone call from the voice in the park, repeating his intention to kill her with the end of the month as a deadline. Neighbor Peggy Thompson (Natasha Parry) urges Tony to take Kit to Scotland Yard to discuss the situation. After questioning her, Inspector Byrnes (John Williams) tells Tony he suspects that Kit is merely a lonely wife in need of attention. Meanwhile, Kit's Aunt Bea (Myrna Loy) arrives. When Kit tells her of the phone calls, they both put it down to \"telephone talkers\".\n\nTony must cancel the trip to Italy due to continuing problems at work. Kit receives another call, but before Tony can take the phone to hear the voice, she hysterically hangs up. That evening, Tony and Kit meet Aunt Bea and her former beau Charles Manning (Herbert Marshall) at a nightclub, where Aunt Bea questions Tony about Kit's nervousness. When Tony repeats the inspector's suspicions, Bea wonders if he may be right: Kit received the last call after hearing that the Italy trip was cancelled.\n\nThe next day, Kit is trapped in an elevator when the power goes out. She panics when she hears footsteps ominously approaching in the dark, and is relieved to discover that it's Brian, who was on his way to warn her that his crew has blown a circuit. Brian escorts the visibly shaken Kit to a pub for a brandy. He relates an experience he had during World War II, suffering \"blackouts\" and once losing a whole day. Kit, disturbed by his intense manner, returns home. The pub owner asks Brian if she should include last night's phone charges in his bill.\n\nKit, Tony, and Aunt Bea are at the ballet when Tony's assistant Daniel Graham (Richard Ney) calls him away to tell him it appears £1 million ($1.256 million USD in 1960; $10.7 million USD in 2018) has been embezzled from the firm. Daniel knows company treasurer Manning has large gambling debts and suggests he is responsible for the loss. Malcolm confronts Kit at the ballet and asks for money. When she hesitates, he vaguely threatens her.\n\nKit becomes increasingly paranoid. Her reports of more calls and a visit from a mysterious stranger nobody else sees are met with scepticism by everybody. On the street she's pushed in front of an approaching bus and is nearly killed. Kit frantically begs Peggy to lie that she heard the voice on the phone, but the plan backfires: Tony reveals that their phone has been out of order.\n\nNow certain that Kit is delusional, Tony and Bea take her to a physician who suggests that she may be suffering from a split personality and should see a psychiatrist. Tony decides to take Kit to Venice immediately and asks Bea to help her pack while he attends a board meeting.\n\nHaving dinner nearby, Brian sees a man looking ill-at-ease. The pub owner tells him the man has recently been hanging around, staring at the building across—the one where Kit lives.\n\nBefore Tony leaves for the meeting, the phone rings and he hears the voice. He calls Inspector Byrnes and asks him to come to the apartment, then tells Kit that he will pretend to leave the building and secretly return, hopefully to catch her stalker.\n\nAs soon as Tony leaves, the caller phones to announce he is coming to kill Kit. Tony returns and they turn off all the lights. Inside the apartment, the voice calls to Kit, telling her he's there to kill her. A man with a gun is seen at the terrace doors. Tony tackles him; as they struggle throughout the apartment, the gun goes off and hits the intruder.\n\nWondering why Scotland Yard is taking so long, Kit starts to place a call. Tony stops her and confesses that he never contacted the police—but he soon will, after she's been thrown from the terrace and killed \"fighting off the intruder.\" He explains his plan to kill her and make her death appear a suicide she was driven to by mental illness; then he would collect her inheritance and repay the money he stole from his business. But the intruder has changed the plan: Tony now has to come down the stairs to kill the intruder after the intruder has killed Kit.\n\nJust then Peggy enters the apartment and Kit asks for her help. But Tony explains that Peggy has actually been helping him—with the phone calls and pushing her at the bus stop. When the gunman regains consciousness, he turns out to be Peggy's husband Roy, who had planned to murder Tony and Peggy after learning of their affair.\n\nAs Tony and Peggy deal with Roy, Kit works her way out on the terrace into the construction site gliding across girders. Brian and a policeman see her and shine a light on her, stopping Tony from following and throwing her off. When Brian reaches her he helps her to the elevator and down to the street, where Aunt Bea waits.\n\nWhen Inspector Byrnes arrives, he reveals that he had tapped Kit's phone and knew she was in trouble when Tony pretended to call the police. Brian and Aunt Bea comfort Kit while the inspector arrests her husband and his mistress.\n\nThe film was based on a play by Janey Green \"Matilda Shouted Fire\". In August 1958 it was touring the provinces in Britain but had not yet arrived in London when Universal announced they had purchased the screen rights as a vehicle for Doris Day. In March 1959 Ben Roberts and Ivan Goff signed to write the script. The film would be done as a co-production between Universal and Arwin, the company of Day's husband.\n\nIn February 1960 the title was changed to \"Midnight Lace\".\n\nThe \"Time\" critic called the film\n\nanother of those recurrent thrillers (\"Sorry, Wrong Number\", \"Gaslight\", \"The Two Mrs. Carrolls\", \"Julie\") in which a dear, sweet, innocent girl is pursued by a shadowy figure of evil who threatens her with all sorts of insidious molestation ... Like its predecessors, \"Midnight Lace\" is not very interesting in itself, but it is uncomfortably fascinating when considered as one of the persistent fantasies of a monogamous society ... False leads trail off in at least seven directions, but the climax of the film will come to most mystery buffs as no surprise ... Doris Day wears a lot of expensive clothes, and in attempting to portray the all-American missus behaves like such a silly, spoiled, hysterical, middle-aged Lolita that many customers may find themselves less in sympathy with her plight than with the villain's murderous intentions.\n\n\"Variety\" said,\n\nIn a Ross Hunter effort the emphasis is on visual satisfaction. The idea seems to be to keep the screen attractively filled. First and foremost, it is mandatory to have a lovely and popular star of Doris Day's calibre. She is to be decked out in an elegant wardrobe and surrounded by expensive sets and tasteful furnishings. This is to be embellished by highly dramatic lighting effects and striking hues, principally in the warmer yellow-brown range of the spectrum. The camera is to be maneuvered, whenever possible, into striking, unusual positions. ... The effervescent Day sets some sort of record here for frightened gasps. Harrison Is capable. Director David Miller adds a few pleasant little humorous touches and generally makes the most of an uninspired yarn.\n\nDoris Day was nominated for the Golden Globe Award for Best Actress - Motion Picture Drama but lost to Greer Garson in \"Sunrise at Campobello\". Irene Lentz was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Color Costume Design but lost to Arlington Valles for \"Spartacus\".\n\nUniversal first released \"Midnight Lace\" on VHS in 1996. Then in 2014, the film was released on DVD through the Turner Classic Movies Vault Collection, with a 1.85:1 video aspect ratio and bonus features like a special film introduction from TCM, movie trailer (formatted for widescreen), and image stills and photos; this was re-released on March 11, 2015 as a barebone film-only DVD. The film was later released by Universal directly as a stand-alone DVD and in the \"Doris Day: The Essential Collection\", which features 5 other films starring Doris Day (\"Pillow Talk\", \"Lover Come Back\", \"The Thrill of It All\", \"Send Me No Flowers\", and \"The Man Who Knew Too Much\"); these releases have no bonus features but have optional English subtitles and present the film in a 2.00:1 ratio.\n\nA licensed Blu-ray version was released for the first time on June 25, 2019 by Kino International under its subsidiary \"Kino Lorber Studio Classics\". It contains the film in two different widescreen ratios (2:1 and 1.78:1), theatrical trailer (in full screen), film commentary by Kat Ellinger, and optional English subtitles. There are also Region 2 releases for both DVD and Blu-ray.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2001396", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001396", "title": "Oberhoffen-lès-Wissembourg", "text": "Oberhoffen-lès-Wissembourg\n\nOberhoffen-lès-Wissembourg () is a commune in the Bas-Rhin department in Grand Est in north-eastern France.\n\nIt has the longest name of any commune in the Bas-Rhin department.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2001398", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001398", "title": "Shore Things", "text": "Shore Things\n\nShore Things is a 1996 PBS television documentary by Rick Sebak of WQED Pittsburgh. The show profiles American beaches, the things they are known for, and other notable facts.\n\nThe beaches and other things featured are:\n\nBonus Features on the DVD Include\n"}
{"id": "2001406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001406", "title": "Simpson University", "text": "Simpson University\n\nSimpson University is a private, Christian university in Redding, California. Originally founded in 1921 in Seattle as Simpson Bible Institute, the institution relocated to San Francisco in 1955 and then to Redding in 1989.\n\nSimpson University, named after Albert Benjamin Simpson, a pioneer of the Bible institute movement and founder of The Christian and Missionary Alliance denomination, was established in 1921. Created by W.W. Newberry with the intent of promoting spiritual growth and Christian service in its students, the school initially only offered two-year programs. By 1945 it had expanded its offering and also became the official western regional school of The Christian and Missionary Alliance. By 1971 the university was large enough to offer in-depth liberal arts programs, professional degrees, and biblical courses. Another historic milestone was reached in 1989 when Simpson relocated to its current location in Redding and began building a new campus. In 2004, Simpson College became Simpson University.\n\nSimpson offers many degrees at both the undergraduate and graduate level. In additional to its School of Traditional Undergraduate Studies, it is also home to the Betty M. Dean School of Nursing, which is accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education and ranked No. 8 in California Nursing Schools in 2019; the School of Education; School of Adult Studies (ASPIRE degree-completion program); School of Graduate Professional Studies; and A.W. Tozer Theological Seminary.\n\nOriginally, while still located in San Francisco, the school's athletes were the Knights. After the school moved to Redding, there was a conflict with nearby Shasta College, who were also the Knights. Simpson remained the Knights for the first year in Redding, and in 1990 adopted Vanguard as its mascot. In the fall of 2004, Simpson again changed its mascot to a Red Hawk.\n\nSimpson University teams, nicknamed the Red Hawks, are part of the National Association of Intercollegiate Athletics (NAIA), primarily competing in the California Pacific Conference (CalPac), with some teams competing in the Cascade Collegiate Conference (CCC). The swim and dive team compete in the Pacific Collegiate Swim Conference (PCSC). It also competed as a member of the National Christian College Athletic Association (NCCAA) from 1991 to 2015. The athletic department offers multiple sports programs for both men and women.\n\n\n\n\nBetween 1999 and 2017, Simpson has won the Cal Pac Sportsmanship award, which is chosen by the conference's coaches and administrators, 7 times. The women's softball team also won the school's first conference title, male or female, in the 2011 Cal-Pac Conference Championship. The university has also had three women's teams make it to the NCCAA National Championship, including volleyball in 1999, basketball in 2002, and softball in 2015.\n\n"}
{"id": "2001410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001410", "title": "Here Comes the Judge (Pigmeat Markham song)", "text": "Here Comes the Judge (Pigmeat Markham song)\n\n\"Here Comes the Judge\" is a song and single by American soul and comedy singer Pigmeat Markham first released in 1968 on the Chess label. The record entered the UK charts in July 1968, spending eight weeks on the charts and reaching 19 as its highest position. The song originated with his signature comedy routine \"heyeah (here) come da judge\", which made a mockery of formal courtroom etiquette. Due to its rhythmic use of boastful dialogue, it is considered a precursor to hip hop music.\n\nThe song contained background vocals from future soul singer Minnie Riperton, who was credited as Andrea Davis when she was recording for Chess Records, the label that released \"Here Comes The Judge\". It also featured future Earth, Wind & Fire founder Maurice White, then a staff drummer at Chess Records, on drums providing the signature drum beat to the song.\n\nSongs with the same name have been recorded by several artists; most notably, Shorty Long, whose 1968 Tamla Motown song \"Here Comes the Judge\" also entered the UK charts in July 1968 but only reached 30 as its highest position. Long's song is completely different from Markham's, however it was inspired by Markham's comic act involving a judge, which Markham performed on \"Rowan & Martin's Laugh-In\". The Markham song was also covered, as a parody, by UK band The Barron Knights, as part of their \"An Olympic Record\". Peter Tosh, The Vapors and the Magistrates have recorded songs called \"Here Comes the Judge\" but they are different songs.\n\nMarkham's original version was prominently sampled by Big Audio Dynamite II during the middle of Rush (Big Audio Dynamite II song).\n"}
{"id": "2001413", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001413", "title": "Khimki", "text": "Khimki\n\nKhimki () is a city in Moscow Oblast, Russia, 18.25 kilometres northwest of central Moscow.\n\nKhimki was initially a railway station that existed since 1850 on the Moscow – Saint Petersburg Railway. The Moskva-Volga Canal was constructed between 1932 and 1937 on which Khimki lies on the west bank. Khimki was then officially founded in 1939.\n\nThe German attack starting the Battle of Moscow (code-named ‘Operation Typhoon’) began on 2 October 1941. The attack on a broad front brought German forces to occupy the village of Krasnaya Polyana (now in the town of Lobnya) to Moscow's North West. Krasnaya Polyana was taken on 30 November.\n\nMany sources state that at least one German army patrol visited Khimki. Similarly many sources state this as the closest point the Germans reached to Moscow (Khimki at the time was 8 km (5 miles) from the edge of Moscow). Among the sources stating the Germans visited Khimki the details of the date and unit involved are inconsistent and disputed. One story of events asserts a skirmish took place in Khimki on 16 October at the Leningradskoe Shosse bridge involving a German motorcycle unit, but this would have been far from the main body of German forces at that time. Another account is a patrol reached Khimki around 30 November or early December before returning to its main unit without combat. The dates mentioned for this second account vary. A myth surrounding this is that the Germans would have been able to see the Kremlin 19 kilometres in the distance from Khimki.\n\nThe Soviet Army counter offensive for \"removing the immediate threat to Moscow\" started on 5 December on the North-Western Front (the area around Khimki North West of Moscow). The South-Western Front and Western Fronts began their offensives on 6 December. The German forces were driven back. Moscow was never under such close land threat again during the war.\n\nA memorial in the form of a giant tank trap is located at the \"Kilometer 23\" point ) of Leningradskoye Highway (the highway to St. Petersburg). The memorial is 1.8 km south east of Planernaya Railway Station. The memorial was unveiled on 6 December 1966 as a 25th anniversary recognition of the launch of the Soviet counter offensive. This location is just short of an intersection with the Moscow-St Petersburg railway (close to where the IKEA shopping centre has since been built). This memorial and shopping centre on the Northern side of Khimki has a direct distance of 22 kilometres from Moscow city centre. At the time of the conflict this location was outside Khimki. This memorial is different to the Khimki War Memorial moved in 2007 to in Novoluzhinskoe cemetery.\n\nKhimki was home to several Soviet aerospace defense development centers that became the principal employers for the majority of the city population. This included R&D enterprises which designed surface-to-air missiles for S-75, S-125, S-200, S-300 Soviet air defense systems, engines for intercontinental ballistic missiles and satellite launch vehicles, and other types of equipment. For this reason, Khimki was off limits for all foreigners visiting the country, despite its location on a highway between Moscow and its major international airport.\n\nIn 2010 the city saw protests over the construction of the new Moscow–Saint Petersburg motorway through the Khimki Forest.\n\nCurrently, the city of Khimki is directly adjacent to the territory of the city of Moscow. In recent years the population of the city of Khimki has continued to grow rapidly due to massive residential building construction driven by its proximity to the densely populated Moscow megapolis, which needs new areas for expansion.\n\nPopulation: 254,748 (2019 Census); 207,425 (2010 Census); 141,000 (2002 Census); 106,000 (1977); 23,000 (1939).\n\nWithin the framework of administrative divisions, it is incorporated as Khimki City Under Oblast Jurisdiction—an administrative unit with the status equal to that of the districts. As a municipal division, Khimki City Under Oblast Jurisdiction is incorporated as Khimki Urban Okrug.\n\nThe city enjoys a great deal of commercial activity due to its location between Moscow and one of its main airports, Sheremetyevo.\n\n\nKhimki hosts one of the largest shopping malls in Russia, which features French chain-store Auchan and Swedish furniture-retailer IKEA.\n\nKhimki station is on the Moscow-St Petersburg Railway.\n\nRoad transport includes bus and trolleybus.\n\nKhimki\n\nKhimki is twinned with:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2001416", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001416", "title": "Obadiah (Khazar)", "text": "Obadiah (Khazar)\n\nObadiah was the name of a Khazar ruler of the late eighth or early ninth century. He is described as coming from among \"the sons of the sons\" of Bulan, but whether this should be taken literally to mean that he was Bulan's grandson, or figuratively to imply a more remote descent, is unclear. He was succeeded by his son Hezekiah.\n\n"}
{"id": "2001418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001418", "title": "Nuneaton railway station", "text": "Nuneaton railway station\n\nNuneaton railway station serves the large town of Nuneaton in Warwickshire, England. The station is managed by West Midlands Trains. It is served by three railway lines; the Trent Valley section of the West Coast Main Line (WCML), the Birmingham-Leicester-Peterborough Line and the Nuneaton to Coventry branch line. \nIt was known, during the period 1924–1969 as Nuneaton Trent Valley, to distinguish it from the now closed Nuneaton Abbey Street station, though many local people still refer to it as Trent Valley.\n\nThe station lies on the north-eastern edge of Nuneaton town centre, just outside the ring road.\n\nThe original Nuneaton station was opened on 15 September 1847 when the London and North Western Railway (LNWR) opened the Trent Valley Line, the branch line to Coventry opened in 1850. The original station, like many others on the line had been designed by John William Livock: A simple two platform structure, it became inadequate to cope with the growing traffic, and was rebuilt on a larger scale with extra platforms in 1873. It was rebuilt and enlarged again in 1915 with its current buildings, which were designed by Reginald Wynn Owen.\n\nIn 1873 another line had opened; the Ashby and Nuneaton Joint Railway, to link Ashby-de-la-Zouch and Coalville in order to access the large coal reserves located there. The line was closed to passengers in 1931 but remained open for goods until 1971. Part of it was later reopened as the heritage Battlefield Line.\n\nA second station in Nuneaton; Nuneaton Midland had been opened by the Midland Railway in 1864 on the line between Birmingham and Leicester. When both the LNWR and Midland Railway became part of the London, Midland and Scottish Railway (LMS) in 1924, both station were renamed; the present station becoming known as Nuneaton Trent Valley, and the former Midland station becoming Nuneaton Abbey Street. Abbey Street station was closed in 1968, and the present station reverted to being called just 'Nuneaton', and took on the Birmingham to Leicester services.\n\nOther stations serving Nuneaton included the aforementioned Abbey Street, and two suburban stations at on the line towards Birmingham, and on the line to Coventry. These were all closed in the 1960s under the 1963 Reshaping of British Railways report, leaving only the present one. In addition, on 18 January 1965 the Coventry – Nuneaton Line closed to passengers, reopening to passengers in 1988. In 2016 a new station in Nuneaton; was opened on this line.\n\nIn 2004 Network Rail built two new platforms numbered 6 and 7 on the eastern side of the station. These were built as part of a grade separation project to separate trains on the Birmingham to Peterborough line, from those on the West Coast Main Line and so avoid the need for Birmingham-Leicester trains to cause conflicting movements by running across the WCML on the level: A disused flyover north of the station carrying Birmingham to Peterborough line over the WCML was restored to use, and a connection was built between this and the new platforms, which were dedicated to the Birmingham-Leicester-East Anglia services.\n\nIn November 2012, the 0.9 mile Nuneaton North Chord opened to the north of the station. The chord allows freight trains approaching Nuneaton from Felixstowe via the Birmingham–Peterborough line, to join the northbound WCML after crossing the flyover, allowing them to avoid conflicts with southbound main line trains.\nThe station consists of one side platform (platform 1) on the western side of the station, and three island platforms containing platforms 2 to 7, all of which are linked by a footbridge which has full lift access. The main station building is adjacent to platform one and contains the main facilities, including a staffed ticket office and a cafe shop.\n\nWest Midlands Trains operate an hourly service, southbound to via and , and northbound to via .\n\nAvanti West Coast services from London Euston to Crewe, , , , and Manchester Piccadilly also call during peak hours. Prior to December 2008, Virgin Trains was the sole provider of services to/from London; since then, West Midlands Trains has been the main provider.\n\nCrossCountry operate two trains per hour, westbound to , and eastbound to , one of these continues to via and . All services on this line use platforms 6 and 7.\n\nWest Midlands Trains also provide an hourly service southbound to via . This normally uses platform 1.\n\nIn June 2018, the Office of Rail & Road approved an application by Alliance Rail Holdings for five services per day from London Euston to Blackpool North that will call at Nuneaton. These will be operated by sister Arriva company Grand Central commencing in 2021.\n\nOn the early hours of 6 June 1975, an overnight sleeper train from London to Glasgow derailed and crashed just south of Nuneaton station, killing six people and injuring 38. It was caused when the train ran onto a length of temporary track with a speed restriction at too high a speed; lighting equipment illuminating a board giving advance warning of the speed restriction failed, and this led the driver to wrongly conclude that it had been lifted, so he failed to slow down. One of the locomotives mounted the platform, causing damage to the station. A plaque commemorating the victims of the crash was unveiled at the station in August 2015.\n\nThe LNWR opened a small locomotive depot in 1847 which was used until 1878 when it was replaced by a larger facility. The engine sheds were doubled in size in 1888 and enlarged still further in 1892. This was an important freight Depot for the WCML and its connections at Trent Valley Station, also catering for local passenger services. It was located to the south of the station between the main line and that to Coventry. The depot closed 6 June 1966 and has since been demolished.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2001421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001421", "title": "White-throated tinamou", "text": "White-throated tinamou\n\nThe white-throated tinamou (\"Tinamus guttatus\") is a species of bird native to the Amazon rainforest of Brazil, northern Bolivia, southeastern Colombia, northeastern Ecuador, eastern Peru and southern Venezuela.\n\nThe scientific name for the white-throated tinamou, \"Tinamus guttatus,\" originates from two different languages. \"Tinamus\" was the name given to the tinamou by the Kalina people. \"Guttatus\" means \"speckled\" in Latin. This may be in reference to the yellowish-white spots on a white-throated tinamou's lower back.\n\nAll tinamous are from the family Tinamidae and members of the infraclass Palaeognathae. Tinamous are the only members from their infraclass that aren't ratites, and can even fly, albeit poorly. All paleognaths evolved from prehistoric flying birds, and tinamous are the closest living relative of these birds. The white-throated tinamou is a member of the genus Tinamus, which consists of some of the larger tinamous, the white-throated tinamou being the smallest member of the genus. It was first described by Austrian ornithologist August von Pelzeln in 1863. It is a monotypic species, meaning it doesn't branch off into subspecies.\n\nThe white-throated tinamou has chestnut-brown upperparts with blackish streaking on lower back and small yellowish-white spots. It has paler underparts with wider, dark barring on flanks. It has a grey head and neck, with a white throat, brown eye, and brown bill. These birds measure between in length.\n\nLike other tinamous, the white-throated tinamou eats fruit off the ground or low-lying bushes, as well as invertebrates, flower buds, tender leaves, seeds, and roots. The male incubates the eggs which may come from as many as four different females, and then will raise them until they are ready to be on their own, usually two to three weeks. The nest is located on the ground in dense brush or between raised root buttresses.\n\nThey inhabit sub-tropical and tropical lowland forests at around or lower. They eat seeds, fruits and invertebrates.\n\nIt is a relatively abundant species in its habitat and the main threat to it is deforestation. As of 2012 the status of the white-throated tinamou is Near Threatened, and it has a range occurrence of . Its eggs are prized possessions to some collectors.\n\n"}
{"id": "2001428", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001428", "title": "Lord Lieutenant of Berwickshire", "text": "Lord Lieutenant of Berwickshire\n\nThis is a list of people who have served as Her Majesty's Lord-Lieutenant for the County of Berwick.\n\n"}
{"id": "2001429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001429", "title": "Great tinamou", "text": "Great tinamou\n\nThe great tinamou (\"Tinamus major\") is a species of tinamou ground bird native to Central and South America. There are several subspecies, mostly differentiated by their coloration.\nThe great tinamou is approximately long, in weight and size and shape of a small turkey. It ranges from light to dark olive-green in color with a whitish throat and belly, flanks barred black, and undertail cinnamon. Crown and neck rufous, occipital crest and supercilium blackish. Its legs are blue-grey in color. All these features enable great tinamou to be well-camouflaged in the rainforest understory.\n\nThe great tinamou has a distinctive call, three short, tremulous but powerful piping notes which can be heard in its rainforest habitat in the early evenings.\n\nAll tinamous are from the family Tinamidae, and are the closest living relatives of the ratites. Unlike ratites, tinamous can fly, although in general, they are not strong fliers. All ratites evolved from prehistoric flying birds.\n\nThere are twelve subspecies:\n\nJohann Friedrich Gmelin identified the great tinamou from a specimen located in Cayenne, French Guiana, in 1789.\n\nThe great tinamou is a polygynandrous species, and one that features exclusive male parental care. A female will mate with a male and lay an average of four eggs which he then incubates until hatching. He cares for the chicks for approximately 3 weeks before moving on to find another female. Meanwhile, the female has left clutches of eggs with other males. She may start nests with five or six males during each breeding season, leaving all parental care to the males. The breeding season is long, lasting from mid-winter to late summer. The eggs are large, shiny, and bright blue or violet in color, and the nests are usually rudimentary scrapings in the buttress roots of trees.\n\nExcept during mating, when a pair stay together until the eggs are laid, great tinamous are solitary and roam the dark understory alone, seeking seeds, fruit, and small animals such as insects, spiders, frogs and small lizards in the leaf litter. They are especially fond of Lauraceae, annonaceae, myrtaceae, sapotaceae.\n\nGreat tinamou lives in subtropical and tropical forest such as rainforest, lowland evergreen forest, river-edge forest, swamp forest and cloud forest at altitudes from . Unlike some other tinamous, the great tinamou isn't as affected by forest fragmentation. Its nest can be found at the base of a tree.\n\nThis species is widespread throughout its large range (), and it was formerly evaluated as Least Concern on the IUCN Red List of Threatened Species. They are hunted with no major effect on their population. In 2012 the species was reclassified as Near Threatened due to the predicted impact of continuing deforestation, given that its preferred habitat is undistubed forest.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2001434", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001434", "title": "Mad Maestro!", "text": "Mad Maestro!\n\nMad Maestro!, known in Japan as , is a classical music rhythm game for the PlayStation 2 (PS2). It was developed by Desert Productions and released in Japan by Sony Computer Entertainment (SCEI) and abroad by Eidos Interactive under their \"Fresh Games\" label on October 11, 2001 in Japan, then later in March 2002 for North America and Europe. Playing as the orchestra conductor Takt, the player must play the song by pressing the button according to the correct pressure on the screen. The game utilizes a soundtrack composed of entirely classical music by famous composers such as Beethoven, Brahmes, and Tchaikovsky. The game's original title was .\n\nDespite mixed critical reception in the west, the game was sold well and received positive reviews in its native Japan. This led to three Japan-only follow-ups with two \"expansions\", Bravo Music: Christmas Edition in 2001, and Bravo Music: Chou-Meikyokuban in 2002, and alongside them, a proper sequel called Let's Bravo Music also in 2002.\n\nTypically rhythm games rely on timed input according to on-screen cues and tempo. Mad Maestro features this style of gameplay, with the additional layer of pressure sensitivity. Utilizing the pressure sensitivity with the DualShock 2, the player must conduct an orchestra by tapping correlating buttons with varying degrees of pressure. There are three levels of pressure; light, medium and hard. By playing good and increasing their score, the player can reach Bravo Mode, which is required to beat the stage. By playing 3 or more notes bad however, the player is forced into Devil Mode, where their score will fall until they play a correct cycle perfectly. The Japanese release featured an optional Baton peripheral.\n\nIn Bravo Town, a young composer named Takt is the leader of an orchestral group known as the Bravo Youth Orchestra, and they perform at the town's Concert Hall. To modernize the town however, Bravo Town announces that they will tear down the hall. Prior to the date however, a fairy and overall guardian to the hall named Symphony awakens. She flies over to Takt's house, who tells him that the concert hall was around for a very long time, and that if it does get demolished, music could lose their power. So, she recognizes Takt's musical power and they decide to recruit various Bravo Town citizens to convince the town to keep the Concert Hall.\n\nAfter recruiting a couple, a clown and her lion partner, a fashion designer and a model, a reporter and some aliens, as well as a young flute prodigy and a long-forgotten-about composer, the new Bravo Youth Orchestra compose at the hall, which convinces the town to keep the hall as everyone returns to their life, and Symphony goes back to becoming the guardian of the Concert Hall.\n\n\nThe list of pieces of music in the order they appear on the game.\n\n1. Hungarian Dance No. 6 in D major - Johannes Brahms\n\n2. Hungarian Dance No. 5 in G major - Johannes Brahms\n\n3. Slavonic Dance No 7 - Dvořák, Antonín\n\n4. Thunder and Lightning - Johann Strauss\n\n5. Finale from Carnival of the Animals (Finale Carnivale des Animaux) - Saint-Saëns, C.\n\n6. The Marriage of Figaro - W. A. Mozart\n\n7. Scene from Swan Lake\n\n8. Toreador from Carmen\n\n9. Baba Yaga's Hut from Pictures at an Exhibition - Modest Mussorgsky\n\n10. 9th Symphony-4th Movement - L. V. Beethoven\n\n11. Entry of the Gladiators\n\n12. Marche Militaire - Franz Schubert\n\n13. March from the Nutcracker\n\n14. Trepak from the Nutcracker\n\n15. 40th Symphony K550-1st movement\n\n16. Orpheus in the Underworld Overture\n\n17. Flight of the Valkyries, Richard Wagner\n\n18. Night on Bald Mountain\n\n19. Dance of the Four Swans from Swan Lake\n\n20. Morning Mourn from Peer Gynt\n\n21. William Tell Overture - Rossini\n\n22. Rakoczi's March - Franz Liszt\n\n23. 5th Symphony-1st Movement\n\n24. Radetsky March - Johann Strauss\n\n25. Csikos Post\n\n26. Toy Symphony\n\n27. Eine Kleine Nachtmusik - Mozart\n\n28. Dance of the Reed Flutes from the Nutcracker\n\n29. Algerian Suite from French Military March Music\n\n30. Flight of the Bumblebee\n\n31. Ballet of the Unhatched Chicks from Pictures at an Exhibition\n\n32. Divertimento No. 1 in E flat major K113\n\n33. L'Arlesienne Suite No. 2 from Farandole\n\n34. In the Hall of the Mountain King from Peer Gynt\n\nThe game received \"mixed or average\" reviews according to video game review aggregator Metacritic. The use of pressure sensitivity in addition to standard rhythm game play mechanics was considered by some to be overcomplicated. In Japan, \"Famitsu\" gave it a score of 30 out of 40.\n\nAccording to Dengeki Online, the Japanese edition of \"Mad Maestro\" was the 195th best-selling video game of 2001 at 54,794 copies. \"Mad Maestro!\" was followed by three Japan-exclusive sequels, all for the PS2: on November 22, 2001; on January 17, 2002; and on December 12, 2002.\n\n"}
{"id": "2001439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001439", "title": "Hot milk cake", "text": "Hot milk cake\n\nHot milk cake is a traditional two-layer cake, possibly from the Mid-Atlantic United States. A recipe dating to 1955 from Ruth Ellen Church, a former food editor for the Chicago Tribune can be found in the publication's archives. Church also used the pen name Mary Meade. It has mocha-flavored icing, and is moist and delicate.\n\nIt is served every year since 1991 at the Anne Arundel County Historical Society's annual Strawberry Festival at Baltimore-Washington International Airport.\n\nIt is also a traditional quick one-layer cake served in the South, topped with fruit, powdered sugar icing, or boiled coconut.\n\nHot milk cake gets its distinctive flavor from the scalded milk that is the liquid component of the batter. It differs from traditional sponge cakes in that it contains baking powder as leavening, and the eggs are beaten together whole instead of whipped as yolks and whites separately.\n\n"}
{"id": "2001445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001445", "title": "Anabel", "text": "Anabel\n\nAnabel is a feminine given name. It is the Spanish version of Annabel. Notable people with this given name include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2001447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001447", "title": "The Other Coast", "text": "The Other Coast\n\nThe Other Coast is a comic strip, drawn by Adrian Raeside. It has been syndicated by the Creator's Syndicate since 2001. It is syndicated to more than 150 newspapers worldwide. The strip blends environmental, political, and animal rights issues with comedy.\n\n\n\nThe second sentence should read: It has been syndicated by Creators Syndicate since 2001.\n"}
{"id": "2001453", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001453", "title": "New Hampshire Route 13", "text": "New Hampshire Route 13\n\nNew Hampshire Route 13 is a long north–south state highway in the state of New Hampshire, United States. The highway runs from Brookline to Concord.\n\nThe southern terminus is at the Massachusetts state line in Brookline, where the route continues south as Massachusetts Route 13. The northern terminus is in the center of Concord at U.S. Route 202 and New Hampshire Route 9, locally the intersection of South Street and Pleasant Street.\n"}
{"id": "2001454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001454", "title": "New Hampshire Route 12", "text": "New Hampshire Route 12\n\nNew Hampshire Route 12 is a long north-south state highway in southwestern New Hampshire. Its southern terminus is at the Massachusetts state line in Fitzwilliam, where it continues south as Massachusetts Route 12. Its northern terminus is at the Vermont state line in Claremont (a terminus it shares with New Hampshire Route 103), where it continues north as Vermont Route 12. Most of the northern part of NH 12 runs along the Connecticut River.\n\nIts number is derived from its original 1922 designation as New England Interstate Route 12 (also known as the \"Keene Way\"). Present-day Vermont Route 12, New Hampshire Route 12, Massachusetts Route 12 and Connecticut Route 12 still mostly follow the original route. The four-state series of State Route 12s extend from Morrisville, Vermont to Groton, Connecticut.\n\nNH 12 begins in Fitzwilliam where it connects to Massachusetts Route 12 at the state line. The highway heads northwest into the town center where it crosses NH 119. NH 12 continues northwest through Troy, then dips into parts of Marlborough and Swanzey before entering the city of Keene. Immediately after crossing into Keene, NH 12 intersects the northern terminus of NH 32 then meets NH 101 near Keene State College. NH 12 turns west along NH 101, then meets NH 10 at a roundabout. NH 10 joins NH 12 and NH 101 west to the next intersection at NH 9. NH 101 ends while NH 10 and NH 12 turn north with NH 9 eastbound in tow. The three routes are multiplexed for as they bypass downtown Keene to the west. NH 9 and NH 10 split off at a trumpet interchange while NH 12 continues northwest. The highway interchanges with NH 12A on its way out of town.\n\nNH 12 enters the southwestern corner of Surry, then turns nearly due west, crossing into the town of Westmoreland. It intersects the northern terminus of NH 63 near the Connecticut River, then turns north and enters Walpole. Now paralleling the eastern bank of the river, NH 12 heads north towards the town center. It intersects with NH 123, which connects to U.S. Route 5 in the neighboring town of Westminster, Vermont. NH 123 south joins NH 12 north and the two routes run in a wrong-way concurrency until crossing the Cold River, where NH 123 splits off to the east. NH 12 continues north along the river and crosses into Charlestown where it meets the northern terminus of NH 12A. The highway continues through downtown, then intersects NH 11, which connects to Interstate 91 and US 5 in nearby Springfield, Vermont. NH 11 east joins NH 12 north and the two routes continue north. A second, northern segment of NH 12A splits off to bypass Claremont while NH 11 and NH 12 head towards the downtown area. \n\nIn downtown Claremont NH 11 and NH 12 intersect with NH 103 and split after a overlap. Facilitated by a traffic circle, NH 11 joins NH 103 eastbound while NH 12 joins NH 103 westbound. NH 12 and NH 103 cross the Sugar River, then parallel it to the northwest (which they do for the remainder of their lengths) back towards the Connecticut River. Heading west, NH 12 and NH 103 cross NH 12A, then turn northwest and cross the river into Ascutney, Vermont. NH 103 ends at the state line while NH 12 becomes Vermont Route 12.\n\nNH 12 was originally designated in 1922 as part of New England Interstate Route 12, a regional highway stretching from Route 1 (modern U.S. Route 1, which partly runs on Interstate 95) in New London, Connecticut to Derby, Vermont, where it terminated at Route 2 (modern U.S. Route 5) near the border with Quebec. It was known as the \"Keene Way,\" reflecting its route through Keene, New Hampshire.\n\nIn 1926, the New England road marking system was usurped by the system of United States Numbered Highways and in ca. 1932, Route 12 was redesignated as state highways bearing the number 12 (although a portion of Route 12 in southern Connecticut swapped designations with Route 32 at the same time). In the 1960s, VT 12 was truncated from Derby to its present terminus in Morrisville, with the former highway remaining as parts of VT 14, VT 16 and US 5. The highway as a whole has remained largely unchanged since.\n\nNew Hampshire Route 12A is a designation held by two state highways which bypass separate sections of NH 12. Although not directly connected, the two segments are linked by an section of NH 12 in Charlestown.\n\nThe southern segment of NH 12A is a loop route of NH 12 which bypasses Westmoreland and Walpole. Its southern terminus is at an interchange with NH 12 in Keene. Its northern terminus is at an intersection with NH 12 in Charlestown.\n\nThis section of NH 12A begins at an interchange with NH 12 north of downtown Keene. The highway initially heads northeast, then turns north to parallel the Ashuelot River and enters the town of Surry. NH 12A passes through the center of Surry and continues north into Alstead. In Alstead, NH 12A continues north until intersecting with NH 123. NH 12A joins NH 123 and the highway intersects NH 123A before turning west along the Cold River. The road turns north to cross the river, then NH 12A splits from NH 123. NH 12A continues northwest through the town of Langdon before crossing into Charlestown. NH 12A terminates at NH 12 in the southern end of town.\n\nThe northern segment of NH 12A is a long spur route of NH 12 that travels south-to-north along the eastern side of the Connecticut River. Its southern terminus is at an intersection with NH 11 and NH 12 in Charlestown. Its northern terminus is at US 4 and NH 10 in Lebanon.\n\nThis section of NH 12A starts in northern Charlestown where it splits from NH 11 / NH 12. It runs along the eastern side of the Connecticut River, bypassing downtown Claremont to the west. After crossing the Sugar River, NH 12A crosses NH 12 and NH 103, which cross into Ascutney, Vermont just to the west. \n\nNow paralleling its parent route, which has become Vermont Route 12 across the river, NH 12A continues north into the town of Cornish. Bridge Street offers a local connection to VT 12, US 5 and VT 44 in neighboring Windsor, Vermont. NH 12A continues through western Plainfield without any major junctions, then enters the city of Lebanon. NH 12A continues north and interchanges with Interstate 89 before terminating at US 4 / NH 10 in West Lebanon village.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2001465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001465", "title": "Omnibus (survey)", "text": "Omnibus (survey)\n\nAn omnibus survey is a method of quantitative marketing research where data on a wide variety of subjects is collected during the same interview. Usually, multiple research clients will provide proprietary content for the survey (paying to 'get on the omnibus'), while sharing the common demographic data collected from each respondent.\n\nAn omnibus survey generally uses a stratified sample and can be conducted either by mail, telephone, or Internet.\n\nThe advantages to the research client include cost savings (because the sampling and screening costs are shared across multiple clients) and timeliness (because omnibus samples are large and interviewing is ongoing). \n\nHowever, the number of questions will be smaller and sometimes the theme of one of the research client will not be of interest for a part of the respondents. \n\nAn omnibus survey may also be referred to as an omnibus panel.\n"}
{"id": "2001467", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001467", "title": "European Students' Union", "text": "European Students' Union\n\nThe European Students' Union (ESU) is the umbrella organisation of 46 national unions of students from 40 countries, representing almost 20 million students. The aim of ESU is to represent and promote the educational, social, economic and cultural interests of students at a European level towards all relevant bodies and in particular those of the European Union, Council of Europe and UNESCO. ESU is representing the voice of the students in Europe by being a consultative member to the Bologna Process. ESU is also a full member of the European Youth Forum (YFJ), the ESU nominee for 2006 was elected as YFJ president.\n\nOn 17 October 1982, seven National Unions of Students (NUSes) from the United Kingdom, Sweden, Iceland, France, Denmark, Norway and Austria established the Western European Students Information Bureau (WESIB) at a gathering in Stockholm. In February 1990, WESIB dropped the \"W\" to become the European Student Information Bureau (ESIB) following the political upheaval in Europe at the time. In 1992 the name was yes changed yet again, into the National Unions of Students in Europe. This reflected the recognition of the changing mission of ESIB from being a pure information sharing organisation into political organisation that represented the views of students to European institutions. In May 2007, the name current name, European Students' Union (ESU), was introduced.\n\nOver the years the office of ESU has moved around Europe and was first hosted by the member NUSes. Following the establishment of WESIB in Stockholm the office was based in the SFS Office in Sweden from 1982 until 1985, funded by a grant by the Swedish Government. By 1985 the grant was running low and so NUS UK offered to host WESIB in their London headquarters. In 1988 the office moved to the ÖH offices in Vienna and remained there until 2000, when it was decided that for reasons of being near the European institutions the office should move to Brussels and was hosted by VVS.\n\nThe highest structure of ESU is the Board Meeting, bringing together representatives from all the National Unions of Students it represents. The Board Meeting sets the policy direction of the organisation, and elects members to the Executive Committee to run the organisation.\n\nThe Executive Committee (EC) is elected for a one-year term at the annual Board Meeting by representatives of the member organisations, with each country (not organisation) given two votes. The President and Vice-Presidents together make up the Presidency of ESU, and are responsible for the day-to-day operations of the organisation along with the seven General Members of the EC.\n\nCandidate members are NUSes that have submitted an application of membership to ESU, but have not yet been granted member status by the Board Meeting. Candidate members retain their status for one year and are subject to a \"study visit\" by ESU to ensure they meet membership criteria. As of March 2020, there are no candidate members.\n\nAssociate members of ESU are pan-European and international student organisations that have similar goals to ESU. The criteria for associate membership require the organisation to be democratic and student-run, have either students or NUSes as members, and represent students from at least 8 countries that are parties to the European Cultural Convention. Associate organizations can attend and speak at all ESU meetings, but cannot vote at Board Meetings.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2001469", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001469", "title": "Pfaffenhoffen", "text": "Pfaffenhoffen\n\nPfaffenhoffen () is a former commune in the Bas-Rhin department in Grand Est in north-eastern France. On 1 January 2016, it was merged into the new commune Val-de-Moder.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2001472", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001472", "title": "Brown tinamou", "text": "Brown tinamou\n\nThe brown tinamou (\"Crypturellus obsoletus\") is a brownish ground bird found in humid lowland and montane forest in tropical and subtropical South America.\n\nAll tinamou are from the family Tinamidae, and in the larger scheme are also ratites. Unlike other ratites, tinamous can fly, although in general, they are not strong fliers. All ratites evolved from prehistoric flying birds, and tinamous are the closest living relative of these birds.\n\nIts distribution is highly disjunct with the subspecies being distributed as follows:\n\n\nAdditionally, there are records from north Mato Grosso in Brazil, but it remains unclear which subspecies is involved. Most subspecies occur in highlands, but \"hypochraceus\", \"griseiventris\", and the southern populations of the nominate taxon occur in lowlands. It is uncommon to rare in most of its range, but commoner in southeastern Brazil, where it is the most frequently encountered member of its genus.\n\n\"Crypturellus\" is formed from three Latin or Greek words. \"kruptos\" meaning covered or hidden, \"oura\" meaning tail, and \"ellus\" meaning diminutive. Therefore, \"Crypturellus\" means small hidden tail.\n\nThe brown tinamou is superficially similar to a quail, but unrelated as it, along with other tinamous, belongs in the Paleognathae. It is approximately in length and it weighs about . Depending on the subspecies involved, the upperparts vary from dark sooty-brown to bright chestnut and the underparts, which usually are paler than the upperparts, vary from chestnut to light ochraceous. The subspecies \"griseiventris\" is unique in having pale buff-grey underparts. All subspecies can be separated from the superficially similar little tinamou by the greyish (rather than whitish) throat. Females are typically larger and more rufescent than the males.\n\nAs other tinamous of its genus, it is a shy, ground-dwelling species, which usually is encountered singly or in pairs. It feeds on fruits, insects, and seeds. The female lays 4-5 deep pink to dark glossy brown eggs on the ground; typically in a small depression at the base of a tree. Its song consists of loud, high-pitches whistles, but exact structure and timbre vary over its range.\n\nThe brown tinamou is located in northern Venezuela, Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, northern and southern Brazil, extreme northeastern Argentina, eastern Bolivia, and eastern Paraguay. They may also be in Uruguay.\n\nThey live in tropical and sub-tropical moist lowland and montane forests, preferring elevations between .\n\nThe IUCN classifies the brown tinamou as Least Concern, with an occurrence range of .\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2001482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001482", "title": "Shotts and Dykehead Caledonia Pipe Band", "text": "Shotts and Dykehead Caledonia Pipe Band\n\nThe Shotts and Dykehead Caledonia Pipe Band is a grade 1 pipe band from Shotts, in the North Lanarkshire region of Scotland. The band has won the World Pipe Band Championships sixteen times. The current pipe major is Emmett Conway.\n\nThe Shotts and Dykehead Caledonia Pipe Band was formed in 1910 by Pipe Major Dugald MacFarlane. The band purchased its first uniform with kilts of the McKenzie tartan in 1914, but despite entering many competitions, the band did not attain competitive success until Pipe Major Tom McAllister took the lead role in 1929. In 1935 the band won the Grade 2 world championship, and were upgraded to Grade 1 for the 1936 season, when they won the British Championship on the first attempt. After a suspension of competitions during the Second World War, the band won the World Championships in 1948 and 1952 under Tom McAllister, for a total of 21 major championships during his leadership of the band.\n\nTom McAllister's son John Kerr McAllister took over as pipe major in 1954, in partnership with leading drummer Alex Duthart. Under this leadership, the band won four consecutive World Championships, between 1957 and 1960, setting a record for the time. After losing several members, including Alex Duthart, and not competing in 1963, Willie Stevenson was appointed as leading drummer and the band resumed competition in 1964.\n\nJohn Kerr McAllister retired in 1968, having led the band to 26 major championship victories, to be succeeded by his younger brother Tom McAllister Junior. Alex Duthart returned in 1970, and in the next twelve years before Tom retired the band won a further 23 major championships. Alex retired in 1982 and Tom in 1984, and were succeeded by leading drummer John Scullion and pipe major James A. Bell. At the end of 1986, Robert Mathieson and Jim Kilpatrick, former members of the band, took over as pipe major and leading drummer respectively. The band won 30 major championships under Mathieson, who retired at the end of 2010 to be replaced by Gavin Walker.\n\nFollowing the unexpected resignation of Gavin Walker just prior to the 2012 World Championships, Ryan Canning was appointed as the new pipe major of the band. The band did not, however, compete in the World Championships that year, partially due to Kilpatrick's suspension by the RSPBA over a comment posted on Facebook.\n\nIn 2013, the band announced the end of its decade long sponsorship from The House of Edgar and the name reverted to Shotts and Dykehead Caledonia Pipe Band.\n\nIn 2015, Shotts won the World Championships again, the first major championship won under Canning and the first victory by a Scottish band since Shotts won the title in 2005. Kilpatrick left the band in October 2015, a statement from the band reported that Kilpatrick had agreed to step down and retire from his position as leading drummer, and that corps member Blair Brown would be his replacement. but in his own statement Kilpatrick stated that his removal from the band was \"the final act in a long-running, premeditated and well-planned coup d’état orchestrated by Ryan Canning, Blair Brown, Glenn Brown and perhaps three other members of the Shotts band.\" Emmett Conway took over as pipe major of the band in late 2018.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2001498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001498", "title": "Father Goose (film)", "text": "Father Goose (film)\n\nFather Goose is a 1964 American Technicolor romantic comedy film set in World War II, starring Cary Grant, Leslie Caron and Trevor Howard. The title derives from \"Mother Goose\", the code name assigned to Grant's character. The film won an Oscar for Best Original Screenplay. It introduced the song \"Pass Me By\" by Cy Coleman and Carolyn Leigh, later recorded by Peggy Lee, Frank Sinatra and others.\n\nThis was the penultimate film of Cary Grant's long career.\n\nWhile the Royal Australian Navy evacuates Salamaua in February 1942 ahead of a Japanese invasion, Commander Frank Houghton (Trevor Howard) coerces an old friend, a lovable curmudgeon alcoholic American beachcomber Walter Eckland (Cary Grant), into becoming a coast watcher for the Allies. Houghton escorts Eckland to deserted Matalava Island to watch for Japanese airplanes. To ensure Eckland stays put, Houghton sees to it that his own ship \"accidentally\" knocks a hole in Eckland's launch while departing, so his only boat is a utility dinghy. To motivate Eckland, Houghton has his crew hide bottles of whisky around the island, rewarding each aircraft sighting (once it is confirmed) with directions to one of the bottles.\n\nHoughton finds a replacement watcher, but Eckland has to retrieve him from nearby Bundy Island by dinghy. He unexpectedly finds eight civilians stranded there: Frenchwoman Catherine Freneau (Leslie Caron) and seven young schoolgirls under her care. She informs him that the man he came for was killed in an air raid. Eckland reluctantly takes the party back to Matalava with him, but there is no safe way for them to be evacuated.\n\nThe fastidious Freneau clashes repeatedly with the slovenly, uncouth Eckland; they call each other \"Miss Goody Two Shoes\" and \"a rude, foul-mouthed, drunken, filthy beast\". In the end, though, he adjusts to her and the girls. She learns that Eckland had been a history professor before he chose a freer way of life in the South Pacific. Afterwards, Ecklund cares for Freneau after they mistakenly believe she has been bitten by a deadly snake. With nothing else to do, he gives her whisky; she gets drunk and speaks freely.\n\nNow in love, the couple arrange to be married by a military chaplain over the radio, but strafing by a Japanese airplane interrupts the ceremony.\n\nSince they have been detected, Houghton sends an American submarine to pick them up, but an enemy patrol boat shows up first. Leaving Catherine and the schoolgirls in his dinghy, Eckland takes his now-repaired launch out to lure the Japanese vessel beyond the surrounding reef so the submarine can torpedo it. The Japanese sink his boat, but the submarine sinks the patrol boat, and Eckland survives to be rescued.\n\n\nThe children:\n\n\"Father Goose\" was filmed on location in Jamaica.\n\nWhen Grant was asked by a Universal Pictures executive to read the short story, he liked it well enough to pass it along to Peter Stone, who told him he wanted to write the screenplay. Grant then arranged for him to be signed to \"Father Goose\"; Stone's contract called for a picture a year for five years.\n\nDirector Ralph Nelson stated he tried to avoid professional child actors; with one exception, he succeeded.\n\nThe Japanese patrol vessel at the end of the film was portrayed by a former U.S. Coast Guard wood hull 83-foot WPB patrol boat.\n\n\"Father Goose\" grossed $12,500,000 at the domestic box office, earning $6 million in US theatrical rentals.\n\n\"Time Out Film Guide\" panned the film, complaining, \"It's a shame that Grant ... should have logged this sentimental claptrap as his penultimate film\" and \"Grant frequently looks as if he really didn't want to be there, wading lost in a sludge of turgid drama and pallid comedy.\" Film4 agreed, stating \"the story all too slowly descends into sentimental sludge.\"\n\nIn its contemporary review, \"Variety\" found more to like: \"Cary Grant comes up with an about-face change of character... [He] plays an unshaven bum addicted to tippling and tattered attire, a long way from the suave figure he usually projects but affording him opportunity for nutty characterization. Leslie Caron and Trevor Howard are valuable assists to plottage...\"\n\nBosley Crowther, \"The New York Times\" critic, considered it \"a cheerfully fanciful fable\" and \"some harmless entertainment\". Of the title character, he wrote, \"It is not a very deep character or a very real one, but it is fun.\"\n\nThe film won the Oscar for Best Writing, Story and Screenplay, which was written directly for the screen by S. H. Barnett, Peter Stone, and Frank Tarloff, and was also nominated for Best Film Editing (Ted J. Kent) and Best Sound (Waldon O. Watson). It received a nomination for the 1965 Golden Globe Best Motion Picture - Musical/Comedy award.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2001504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001504", "title": "Yellow-legged tinamou", "text": "Yellow-legged tinamou\n\nThe yellow-legged tinamou (\"Crypturellus noctivagus\") is a species of tinamou found in wooded and shrubby habitats in tropical and subtropical eastern Brazil. This superficially quail-like bird has a grey-brown plumage and two easily separated subspecies. It has declined due to human activities, and is therefore listed as Near Threatened by the IUCN.\n\nThis species has two subspecies:\n\nThe yellow-legged tinamou is approximately in length. Its upperparts are grey, its lower back and wings are barred black, its neck and upper breast are greyish, its lower breast is rufous and its belly is whitish. It has a blackish cap and a buffy supercilium. The supercilium is broadest and most prominent in the race \"zabele\", which also is paler overall, has a whiter (less rufescent) throat and brighter yellow legs than the nominate race.\n\nLike other tinamous, the yellow-legged tinamou eats fruit off the ground or low-lying bushes. They also eat small amounts of invertebrates, flower buds, tender leaves, seeds, and roots. The male incubates the eggs which may come from as many as 4 different females, and then will raise them until they are ready to be on their own, usually 2–3 weeks. The nest is located on the ground in dense brush or between raised root buttresses.\n\nIts preferred habitat is humid forest, but the subspecies \"zabele\" also occurs in drier wooded habitats, such as savanna-woodland and Caatinga. It can be found at elevation of or less.\n\nThe yellow-legged tinamou suffers from widespread and continuing habitat destruction and hunting pressure. Overall, although its numbers are decreasing they are not critical and therefore listed as Near Threatened by the IUCN. It has an occurrence range of . There are no recent records from parts of its range, and it appears to have been extirpated from Rio de Janeiro.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2001506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001506", "title": "Eleanor Smeal", "text": "Eleanor Smeal\n\nEleanor Smeal (born July 30, 1939) is one of the major leaders of the modern-day American feminist movement. Smeal is the president and a cofounder of the Feminist Majority Foundation (founded in 1987) and has served as president of the National Organization for Women for three terms, in addition to her work as an activist, grassroots organizer, lobbyist, and political analyst.\n\nSmeal has appeared frequently on television, on shows including \"Crossfire\", \"Good Morning America\", \"Larry King Live\", \"Nightline\", and \"The Today Show\". She has also appeared frequently on radio and testified before Congress. Smeal has organized numerous events around and given speeches on the concepts of feminism, equality, and human rights as they pertain to people in and outside of the United States.\n\nShe is of Italian ancestry, born on July 30, 1939, to Peter Anthony Cutri and Josephine E. (Agresti), in Ashtabula, Ohio. Her father emigrated to America from Calabria, Italy and became an insurance salesman. After graduating from Strong Vincent High School in 1957, Smeal attended Duke University. At the time, Duke was not integrated and women made up only 25% of the enrolled students.\n\nSmeal participated in the fight for integration at Duke and graduated Phi Beta Kappa in 1961. She also holds an M.A. in political science and public administration from the University of Florida. Since 2001, Smeal is also the publisher of \"Ms.\" magazine which is owned and published by the Feminist Majority Foundation.\n\nWhile attending Duke University Eleanor met Charles Smeal, an engineering student, whom she married on April 27, 1963. Eleanor and Charles had two children together and lived in the area of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.\n\nSmeal's interest in feminism and her awareness of feminist issues became increasingly stronger during the late 1960s. Already confronted with a lack of day-care facilities for her young child, while also dealing with a back disability, Smeal realized there was no disability insurance for wives and mothers. It was this issue that pushed Smeal into researching further into feminism. Then in 1968, Smeal began a term lasting four years on the board of the local League of Women Voters, and then two years later, joined (along with her husband) the National Organization for Women (NOW).\n\nSmeal joined the National Organization for Women (NOW) in 1970 and served as president from 1977 to 1982 and again from 1985 to 1987. During this time, in 1986, she led the first national pro-choice march, which drew over 100,000 activists to Washington, DC.\n\nAfter leaving NOW in 1987, Smeal saw a need for a new feminist organization that combined research, educational outreach, and political action. A 1986 Newsweek/Gallup poll reported that 56% of women in the US self-identify as feminists. Smeal reconciled her vision of a new feminist organization and the task of empowering women and men who support equity by cofounding the Feminist Majority Foundation in 1987.\n\nSeveral legislative measures bear Smeal's imprint including the Free Access to Clinic Entrances legislation (influenced by \"Madsen v. Women's Health Center\") that President Bill Clinton signed into law in 1994, the unsuccessful attempt to defeat Proposition 209 in California, the Pregnancy Discrimination Act, the Equal Credit Act, the Civil Rights Restoration Act, the Violence Against Women Act, the Freedom of Access to Clinic Entrances Act, the Civil Rights Act of 1991 and the unsuccessful 1970s and 1980s fight to ratify the Equal Rights Amendment.\n\nEleanor Smeal was first elected as the President of NOW in 1977, preceded by President Karen DeCrow. In total, Smeal was elected as NOW's President three times.\n\nSmeal was elected at a time when conference delegates had authorized a NOW ERA (Equal Rights Amendment) Strike Force to campaign for ratification. Upon hearing that the deadline for the ratification for ERA, Smeal convinced Elizabeth Holztman, a member of the United States House of Representatives, to bring the proposal to Congress. In this time of great desire for equal rights, Smeal played a key role and was a major organizer of the 1978 March for ERA. This march brought over 100,000 marchers and as a result, Congress voted to extend the deadline for ERA to June 30, 1982.\n\nIn 1979, Smeal was reelected as NOW's President, running for her second term as the head of the organization. In her second run as President, Smeal focused her efforts on making Social Security more fair for women, testifying against restrictions on abortion funding for military personnel and their dependents, and Lesbian and Gay rights. Smeal led NOW organizers to help stage the 1979 National March for Lesbian and Gay rights.\n\nAt the time of Smeal's second term of Presidency in NOW, Ronald Reagan was also elected as the United States President. Around the time of his inauguration in January, Smeal and the NOW organization launched and led a national campaign to stop Reagan's anti-abortion \"Human Life Amendment.\" Smeal was also the first person to coin the term \"gender gap\" when she analyzed in the National NOW Times just how different the votes by men versus the votes by women really are. Despite the grand efforts made by NOW during Smeal's presidency to get the ERA ratified, towards the end of Smeal's second term in 1982, the Amendment was shy three states and therefore did not get passed.\n\nAt the end of her second term, which lasted longer than a traditional two-year term due to the decision to allow Smeal to continue her efforts, uninterrupted, on ratifying the ERA, Smeal had boosted NOW to a whopping 220,000 members and a budget of $13 million annually. While Smeal worked extensively on the ERA, some members felt that she lacked focus in areas such as minority and abortion rights, which became part of the focus of Smeal's successor, Judy Goldsmith.\n\nSmeal's run for presidency the third time around was hard-fought against previous President Judy Goldsmith. Smeal initially supported Goldsmith when she ran for Presidency after Smeal's second term, but now challenged Goldsmith the second time around. Smeal, during a telephone interview, stated that while her and Goldsmith did not differ on the philosophical concepts of equal rights, they differed on the political realities of how to obtain those rights to the fullest. Much of the campaign focused not on the issues the candidates themselves supported, but rather on their tactical approaches towards the issues.\n\nOne of the biggest reasons Smeal decided to run for yet another term as President was not only due to the support of many other NOW members, but from her wish that NOW could be more outspoken, assertive, and publicly active on multiple different issues. These issues included abortion rights, on the role of women in the church, and the Vatican's policy on reproduction. Smeal also noted that while Goldsmith was in power the organization lost its focus and membership declined and she wanted to do something about that.\n\nIn July 1985, Smeal won by a 139-vote margin over Goldsmith. Upon being elected for the third and final time as NOW's President, Smeal stated she would continue Goldsmith's efforts on reproductive rights as well as set forth plans to stage a reproductive rights march for the next year. This march, which took place in 1986 was the first March for Women's Lives and brought over 150,000 people to Washington and Los Angeles in support of women's reproductive rights. In 1987 Smeal also founded the Feminist Majority.\n\nIn 1979, the Supersisters trading card set was produced and distributed; one of the cards featured Smeal's name and picture.\n\nAlso in 1979, \"Time\" magazine chose her as one of 50 Faces for America's Future (August 6, 1979).\n\nIn 1983, World Almanac chose Smeal as one of the most influential women in the United States.\n\nIn 2010 Smeal delivered the commencement address at Rutgers University's graduation and was conferred a Doctorate of Human Letters \"honoris causa\".\n\nIn 2015 Smeal was inducted into the National Women's Hall of Fame.\n\n\"U.S. News & World Report\" chose her as the fourth most influential Washington lobbyist.\n\nIn 1980 she coined the term \"gender gap\" in reference to a difference in how men and women vote by political party; the term is now commonly used in writing with that meaning. Her 1984 book \"How and Why Women Will Elect the Next President\" successfully identified a gender gap in politics.\n\nShe contributed the piece \"The Art of Building Feminist Institutions to Last\" to the 2003 anthology \"\", edited by Robin Morgan.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2001512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001512", "title": "Carl Carlsson Mörner", "text": "Carl Carlsson Mörner\n\nCarl Carlsson Mörner (1 December 1755 in Jönköping – 24 June 1821 in Stockholm) was a Swedish nobleman, officer, and politician. After rising through the ranks after being accepted as a cadet in 1771, he was made field marshal in 1816, and served as Governor-general of Norway from 1816 to 1818. He was made count of Tuna in 1800. He was married to Charlotta Arfwedson, was commonly known to be his political adviser.\n"}
{"id": "2001513", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001513", "title": "Variegated tinamou", "text": "Variegated tinamou\n\nThe variegated tinamou (\"Crypturellus variegatus\") a type of tinamou commonly found in moist forest lowlands in subtropical and tropical regions of northern South America.\n\n\"Crypturellus\" is formed from three Latin or Greek words: \"kruptos\" meaning \"covered\" or \"hidden\", \"oura\" meaning \"tail\", and \"ellus\" meaning \"diminutive\". Therefore, \"Crypturellus\" means \"small hidden tail\".\n\nThe variegated tinamou is a monotypic species. All tinamou are from the family Tinamidae, and in the larger scheme are also ratites. Unlike other ratites, tinamous can fly, although in general, they are not strong fliers. All ratites evolved from prehistoric flying birds, and tinamous are the closest living relative of these birds.\n\nJohann Friedrich Gmelin first identified the variegated tinamou from a specimen from Cayenne, French Guiana, in 1789.\n\nThe variegated tinamou is approximately in length. Its upper back is rufous, and its lower back and wings are black with conspicuous yellowish bands. Its throat is white, and its neck and upper breast are bright rufous, with buff lower breast and belly. Also, its flanks are tinged with cinnamon and dusky light barring. Its crown and sides of head are black with a yellow bill, and greenish to yellowish-brown legs.\n\nLike other tinamous, the variegated eats fruit off the ground or low-lying bushes. They also eat small amounts of invertebrates, flower buds, tender leaves, seeds, and roots. The male incubates the eggs which may come from as many as 4 different females, and then will raise them until they are ready to be on their own, usually 2–3 weeks. The nest is located on the ground in dense brush or between raised root buttresses.\n\nThey have a call that consists of five tremulous evenly pitched notes, sometimes with the notes merging into a trill, although the first note is always distinct and it descends.\n\nThe variegated timamou lives in humid lowland forests with dense undergrowth in southern and eastern Colombia, southern Venezuela, French Guiana, Suriname, Guyana, Amazonian Brazil, eastern Peru, eastern Ecuador, and northern Bolivia. They prefer to an altitude of .\n\nThe IUCN lists this tinamou as Least Concern, with an occurrence range of .\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2001517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001517", "title": "Town Destroyer", "text": "Town Destroyer\n\nConotocaurius (Town Destroyer) was a nickname given to George Washington by Iroquois Native Americans in 1753. The name in its original language(s) has been given variously as \"Conotocarius\", \"Conotocaurious\", \"Caunotaucarius\", \"Conotocarious\", \"Hanodaganears\", and \"Hanadahguyus\". It has also been translated as \"Town Taker\", \"Burner of Towns\", \"Devourer of Villages\", or \"he destroys the town\".\n\nWashington was given the name in 1753 by the Seneca leader Tanacharison (the \"Half-King\"). The nickname had previously been given to his great-grandfather John Washington in the late seventeenth century. He had participated in an effort to suppress a Native American uprising in Virginia and Maryland that involved members of both the Susquehannah and the Piscataway, an Algonquian tribe that lived across the Potomac River from Mount Vernon. Following the massacre of five chiefs who had come out to negotiate under a flag of truce to the colonists, the Susquehannahs gave John Washington an Algonquian name that translated to \"town taker\" or \"devourer of villages.\" The elder Washington's reputation was remembered and when the Native Americans met his great-grandson in 1753 they called George Washington by the same name, \"Conotocarious\".\n\nWashington referred to himself as \"Conotocaurious\" in a letter he wrote to Andrew Montour dated October 10, 1755, in which he entreated the Oneida to resettle on the Potomac:\n\nIn 1779 during the American Revolutionary War, the Sullivan Expedition, under Washington's orders, destroyed at least 40 Iroquois villages in New York, from which the tribe had attacked American settlements. In 1790, the Seneca chief Cornplanter told President Washington: \"When your army entered the country of the Six Nations, we called you Town Destroyer.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2001519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001519", "title": "Department of Social Development (New Brunswick)", "text": "Department of Social Development (New Brunswick)\n\nThe Department of Family and Community Services is a part of the Government of New Brunswick, in Canada. It is charged with the administration of the province's social welfare and nursing home programs. On December 19, 2007, legislation was introduced to change its name to the Department of Social Development.\n\nThe department was established on March 23, 2000 when Premier Bernard Lord restructured the New Brunswick Cabinet. It was created merging the former Department of Income Assistance with parts of the Department of Municipalities and Housing and the Department of Health and Community Services.\n\nBeginning in 2016, two ministers were named to jointly administer the department, a Minister of Families and Children and a Minister of Seniors and Long-Term Care.\n\nAt a 2016 cabinet shuffle, the government announced that the Department of Social Development would remain as a single department with a single deputy minister and senior management team but that the department would be jointly administered by two cabinet ministers. The minister of families and children is responsible for child welfare and youth services, income security, housing services and wellness.\n\nAt a 2016 cabinet shuffle, the government announced that the Department of Social Development would remain as a single department with a single deputy minister and senior management team but that the department would be jointly administered by two cabinet ministers. The minister of seniors and long-term care is responsible for long-term care, nursing home services and the council on aging.\n\n"}
{"id": "2001535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001535", "title": "Arfon transmitting station", "text": "Arfon transmitting station\n\nThe Arfon transmitting station is a facility for FM, DAB digital radio and television transmission near the villages of Nebo and Nasareth in Gwynedd, northwestern Wales (). It includes a guyed mast with antennas attached at various heights. The mast is surmounted by a television transmitting antenna, which brings the total height of the structure to , making it the tallest structure in Wales. It is owned and operated by Arqiva.\n\nThe station was built by the ITA in the early 1960s to provide a 405-line ITV Band III (VHF) TV service for north west Wales. Unlike the BBC, which served the area from Llanddona (on the island of Anglesey), Arfon gave better coverage to some areas. The tower was completed in 1962 and began broadcasting that same year.\n\nIn October 1975 the site became a medium power UHF analogue colour television relay of Llanddona, at the time carrying BBC One, BBC Two and ITV. S4C was added in 1982.\n\n405-line TV was finally discontinued in the UK in 1985, but it appears that Arfon's VHF transmitters were decommissioned a year early in 1984 and the transmitters themselves were reused for clinical radiotherapy.\n\nMore recently, Police and Ambulance communications have been added, in addition to mobile (cellular) telephone antennas. In 1993, Classic FM began using the site for FM coverage of north west Wales in preference to Llanddona (the BBC's regional FM site), partly due to a dispute over BBC charges for sharing fees of its transmitter masts and antennas, but more because Arfon, in conjunction with Great Orme's Head (near Llandudno) gave Classic FM better coverage than the BBC sites.\n\nOn 16 November 1998, local commercial radio station Champion 103 launched from studios in Bangor with its transmitter at Arfon.\n\nThe mast had its aircraft warning lights replaced in Summer 2006 to red lamps employing arrays of ultrabright LEDs.\n\nOn 18 July 2006, national digital radio network Digital One began broadcasting from the station.\n\nThe primary television service area includes most of Anglesey and central parts of the Llŷn Peninsula, however many viewers in south Dublin and north County Wicklow can also receive Arfon's broadcasts. The radio service area is slightly larger, reaching further down Cardigan Bay towards Tonfanau near Tywyn.\n\nInitially, Arfon was a relay of Preseli, receiving its 405-line VHF transmission off-air on channel 8 and rebroadcasting it on channel 10.\n\nWith the coming of colour TV on 625 lines, Arfon acted as a relay of Llanddona, whilst continuing to relay Preseli's VHF transmission.\n\n1982 saw the rollout of the UK's 4th planned UHF television channel. As with all Welsh transmitters, Arfon was required to carry S4C instead of Channel 4 which is broadcast to the rest of the United Kingdom.\n\nAfter 22 years of VHF television from this site, the service was discontinued in January 1984. On UHF, Arfon was destined only ever to transmit the originally-planned four of the eventual five analogue terrestrial television channels.\n\nThere never was a pre-DSO digital TV service from Arfon.\n\nDSO for the repeaters of Llanddona occurred between 21 October & 18 November 2009. In preparation for this, the transmitting antenna at the top of the Arfon mast was replaced in March 2008. This new antenna is slightly taller than the previous one, resulting in the mast's total height increasing to from its previous height of .\n\nOn 21 October, BBC2 Analogue was switched off, and ITV1 Wales took over its frequency for its final three weeks of service. BBC Mux A took over channel 41 that had just been vacated by ITV.\n\nThe analogue television transmissions from Arfon ceased and were replaced by digital transmissions. Unusually for the UK, the digital transmissions from this site are considerably more powerful than is usual practice considering the ERP of the analogue services that they replace.\n\n† MuxCo North west Wales is on this transmitter carrying both the Welsh language Capital Cymru and the English Capital North Wales coast.\nAlso carries Smooth radio. Nation Radio Wales and Dragon radio.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2001538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001538", "title": "Shaun Taylor-Corbett", "text": "Shaun Taylor-Corbett\n\nShaun Michael Taylor-Corbett (October 6, 1978) is an American actor, singer and writer. He is the son of choreographer Lynne Taylor-Corbett and Music Executive Michael Corbett. Taylor-Corbett is of Native American descent and has three sisters.\n\nTaylor-Corbett graduated from the University of Delaware. It was there he sang for an a cappella group called the University of Delaware YChromes. He was also the vice president of the university's World Peace Club and was an honors student. He received vocal training from Shirley Callaway.\n\nAfter college, Taylor-Corbett joined The New York Public Theater, where he performed Shakespeare. He also joined the Harrington Theater Arts Company and appeared on the soap opera All My Children many times. Taylor-Corbett also played Romeo in Shakespeare's Romeo and Juliet at the McCarter Theater in Princeton, New Jersey.\n\nIn 2003, Taylor-Corbett joined the American counterpart to the Australian kids' show Hi-5. In Hi-5, his segment is Shapes and Space, where he would play with play objects, as if they were real life objects, like a giant pyramid and a tunnel. Taylor-Corbett would also explain the functions of shapes as well as performing three songs in each show: solo and as part of the Hi-5 band.\n\nTaylor-Corbett left Hi-5 in 2006 to further pursue his performing career. He played Juan in the hit Off-Broadway musical \"Altar Boyz\" from July 3, 2006 – May 6, 2007. He also appeared on Broadway in the play \"In the Heights\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2001541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001541", "title": "Doctor Light (comics)", "text": "Doctor Light (comics)\n\nDoctor Light is the name of different characters in DC Comics.\n\nThe unnamed man that would become Doctor Light held a faculty position at Ivy League University until he was fired for conducting dangerous experiments on university grounds. This caused the former faculty member to become Doctor Light where he wielded light-based technology and turned to a life of crime. At 3:00 a.m. in a New York town, he generated enough light to make it feel like it is the middle of the day which caused the police officers and security guards that were working the night shift to stare at this phenomenon. This served as a distraction so that Doctor Light could rob the armored vault that's in the factory of its weekly payroll. Doctor Light's crime spree was noticed by Doctor Mid-Nite who tracked him down and fought him. Doctor Light gained the upper hand in the fight which resulted in Doctor Mid-Nite getting a twisted ankle while Doctor Light got away. The next time Doctor Mid-Nite confronted Doctor Light, he brought his Blackout Bombs with him. Doctor Light was at a disadvantage where he was defeated by Doctor Mid-Nite and arrested by the police. Months later, Doctor Light resurfaced and created a replica of the Colosseum, passing it off as a remnant of an ancient civilization, and used it as a front to sell counterfeit relics. Doctor Mid-Nite figured out the plot and he defeated Doctor Light and handed him over to the authorities.\n\nDoctor Light used his light-based gadgets to make plants grow to enormous size where he used them as living weapons. Anyone that came in contact with these plants developed murderous intentions and uncontrollable rage. Doctor Mid-Nite put a stop to Doctor Light's plot.\n\nA different version of Doctor Light appeared in the \"\" episode \"The Eyes Have It\" played by David Bowe. He was a scientist named Doctor Arthur Leit who had stolen an ultraviolet light beam from Doctor Neal Faraday that blinded Superman.\n\n"}
{"id": "2001549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001549", "title": "Cytochrome f", "text": "Cytochrome f\n\nCytochrome \"f\" is the largest subunit of cytochrome \"b\"\"f\" complex (plastoquinol—plastocyanin reductase; ). In its structure and functions, the cytochrome b6f complex bears extensive analogy to the cytochrome bc1 complex of mitochondria and photosynthetic purple bacteria. Cytochrome f (cyt f) plays a role analogous to that of cytochrome c1, in spite of their different structures.\n\nThe 3D structure of \"Brassica rapa\" (Turnip) cyt f has been determined. The lumen-side segment of cyt f includes two structural domains: a small one above a larger one that, in turn, is on top of the attachment to the membrane domain. The large domain consists of an anti-parallel beta-sandwich and a short haem-binding peptide, which form a three-layer structure. The small domain is inserted between beta-strands F and G of the large domain and is an all-beta domain. The haem nestles between two short helices at the N terminus of cyt f. Within the second helix is the sequence motif for the c-type cytochromes, CxxCH (residues 21-25), which is covalently attached to the haem through thioether bonds to Cys-21 and Cys-24. His-25 is the fifth haem iron ligand. The sixth haem iron ligand is the alpha-amino group of Tyr-1 in the first helix. Cyt f has an internal network of water molecules that may function as a proton wire. The water chain appears to be a conserved feature of cyt f.\n\n"}
{"id": "2001550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001550", "title": "Daniel Turner", "text": "Daniel Turner\n\nDaniel Turner may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2001560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001560", "title": "Gulf of Urabá", "text": "Gulf of Urabá\n\nThe Gulf of Urabá is a gulf on the northern coast of Colombia. It is part of the Caribbean Sea. It is a long, wide inlet located on the coast of Colombia, close to the connection of the continent to the Isthmus of Panama.The town of Turbo, Colombia, lies at the mid eastern side naturally sheltered by the Turbo Bay part of the Gulf. The Atrato River flows into the Gulf of Urabá.\n\nA study by Bio-Pacifico has suggested, as an alternative to building a 54‑mile (87 km) link across the Darién Gap to complete the Pan-American Highway, that the Panama section of the highway be extended to the Caribbean coast and end at the Gulf of Urabá, then be connected by ferry to existing highways in Colombia.\n\nThe area surrounding the gulf comprises a geopolitical subregion of Colombia known as Urabá Antioquia.\n\n"}
{"id": "2001574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001574", "title": "Java Web Start", "text": "Java Web Start\n\nIn computing, Java Web Start (also known as JavaWS, javaws or JAWS) is a framework developed by Sun Microsystems (now Oracle) that allows users to start application software for the Java Platform directly from the Internet using a web browser. Some key benefits of this technology include seamless version updating for globally distributed applications and greater control of memory allocation to the Java virtual machine.\n\nJava Web Start was distributed as part of the Java Platform, and included in downloads of the JRE and JDK. It was deprecated by Oracle in Java SE 9 and removed in Java SE 11. The code for Java Web Start was not released by Oracle as part of OpenJDK, and thus OpenJDK originally did not support it. IcedTea-Web provides an independent open source implementation of Java Web Start that is currently developed by the AdoptOpenJDK community, RedHat and Karakun AG, and which is bundled in the official OpenJDK installer.\n\nUnlike Java applets, Web Start applications do not run inside the browser. By default they run in the same sandbox as applets, with several minor extensions like allowing to load and save the file that is explicitly selected by the user through the file selection dialog. Only signed applications can be configured to have additional permissions.\n\nWeb Start has an advantage over applets in that it overcomes many compatibility problems with browsers' Java plugins and different JVM versions. Web Start programs are no longer an integrated part of the web page, they are independent applications that run in a separate frame.\n\nWeb Start can also launch unmodified applets that are packaged inside .jar files, by writing the appropriate JNLP file. This file can also pass the applet parameters. Such applets also run in a separate frame. Applet launcher may not support some specific cases like loading class as resource.\n\nLike applets, Java Web Start is cross-platform.\n\nAs of JDK9, Java applets are deprecated by Oracle with Java Web Start being the intended replacement.\n\nIn March 2018, Oracle announced it will not include Java Web Start in Java SE 11 (18.9 LTS) and later. Developers will need to transition to other deployment technologies.\n\nThe developer prepares a special XML file with JNLP extension. This file describes the application requirements, code location, parameters and additional permissions (if any). The browser downloads this file as any other and (following its MIME type, codice_1) opens it with Web Start tool. Web Start tool downloads all necessary resources and launches the application.\n\nJava Web Start provides a series of classes in the codice_2 package which provide various services to the application. Sun designed most of these services with the aim of allowing carefully controlled access to resources (such as files and the system clipboard) while restricting the application to authorized operations.\n\nSun introduced version 1.0 of Web Start in March 2001, while 64-bit Windows support was added only in Java 6 (later than 64-bit Java was first available). Since J2SE 1.4 Web Start comes as a default part of Java Runtime Environment (JRE) called codice_3, computer administrators no longer have to install it separately.\n\nProgrammers often speak of the Java Network Launching Protocol (JNLP) interchangeably with the term \"Web Start\". The JNLP protocol, defined with an XML schema, specifies how to launch Java Web Start applications. JNLP consists of a set of rules defining how exactly to implement the launching mechanism. JNLP files include information such as the location of the jar package file and the name of the main class for the application, in addition to any other parameters for the program. A properly configured browser passes JNLP files to a Java Runtime Environment (JRE) which in turn downloads the application onto the user's machine and starts executing it. The development of JNLP took place under the Java Community Process as JSR 56. \n\nImportant Web Start features include the ability to automatically download and install a JRE in the case where the user does not have Java installed, and for programmers to specify which JRE version a given program needs in order to execute. The user does not have to remain connected to the Internet to execute the downloaded programs, because they execute from a locally maintained cache. Updates of the software download from the Web and become available when the user has a connection to the Internet, thus easing the burden of deployment.\n\nAny computer user can use JNLP simply by installing a JNLP client (most commonly Java Web Start). The installation can occur automatically such that the end-user sees the client launcher downloading and installing the Java application when first executed.\n\nJNLP works in a similar fashion to how HTTP/HTML works for the web. For rendering an HTML webpage, after the user clicks on a weblink, the browser submits a URL to a webserver, which replies with an HTML file. The browser then requests the resources referred to by this file (images, css), and finally renders the page once it has received enough information. Page rendering usually starts before all resources have downloaded; some resources not critical to the layout of the page (such as images) can follow on afterwards.\n\nJNLP mirrors this process; in the same way that a Web browser renders a webpage, a JNLP client \"renders\" a Java app. After the user clicks on a weblink, the browser submits an URL to a webserver, which replies with a JNLP file (instead of a HTML file) for the application. The JNLP client parses this file, requests the resources specified (jar files), waits for the retrieval of all required resources, and then launches the application. The JNLP file can list resources as \"lazy\", which informs the JNLP client that the application does not need those resources to start, but can retrieve them later on when/if the application requests them.\n\nThe example below gives a simple JNLP file to launch the applet, specifying code base, source, main class and window size. Such file contains all necessary references and is self-sufficient to launch the application. As no permissions are requested, the code will run in a sandbox. JNLP also states that this application can run offline (if already cached) and should be updated as a background process.\n<?xml version=\"1.0\" encoding=\"UTF-8\"?>\n<jnlp spec=\"1.0+\" codebase=\"http://ultrastudio.org/upload\" href=\"\">\n</jnlp>\nTo reduce the size of a Java Web Start application Sun Microsystems introduced a compression system called Pack200 in Java 1.5.0. It can compress a large jar file to one-ninth of its original size if it contains only Java classes.\n\nJava Web Start has supported Pack200 since it first appeared, but initially this feature required server-side cooperation and a certain amount of expertise to set up. When Sun introduced Java SE 6u10, Pack200 support became available without the need for special server support. Application designers can enable or disable this feature within JNLP files.\n\nOn slow connections Pack200 gives a performance boost in application startup time and download time.\n\nBy default, Java Web Start applications run \"restricted\", which means that they do not have access to some system resources such as local files. But publishers can remove these restrictions by signing their Web Start applications with the codice_4 tool that comes with the JDK.\n\nThe open-source IcedTea project provides an alternative JNLP implementation in \"IcedTea-Web\". As of version 1.7.2, it also works on newer versions without official JWS support.\n\nThe OpenWebStart project to run Java Web Start base application after the release of Java 11\nWebswing is a specialized web server for running Swing based Java applications in a browser.\n\n\n\n\nJNLP implementations other than Sun's reference implementation:\n"}
{"id": "2001577", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001577", "title": "Jean Schmidt", "text": "Jean Schmidt\n\nJeannette Mary Schmidt (born November 29, 1951) is an American politician who was a U.S. Representative for , serving from 2005 to 2013. She is a member of the Republican Party.\n\nSchmidt is the second female Ohio Republican to be elected to Congress without succeeding her husband and the first woman to represent the Cincinnati area in the House. She won the Ohio 2nd congressional district seat in a special election on August 2, 2005, by 3.5 percentage points over Democrat and Iraq War veteran Paul Hackett, amid national attention to the race because of Hackett's strong views on the war. The margin of her victory led many Democrats to claim a victory for their party, since the district had been reliably Republican for the past 30 years, and to forecast trouble for the Republicans in 2006. Despite these forecasts, Schmidt defeated former representative Bob McEwen in a Republican primary in May 2006 and Democrat Victoria Wells Wulsin, a medical doctor, in 2006 with 50.4% of the vote. She was re-elected in 2008, winning with 45% of the vote, and in 2010, winning with 58.6%. On March 6, 2012, Schmidt was defeated for re-election in the GOP primary by Brad Wenstrup.\n\nSchmidt, born in Cincinnati, Ohio, is a lifelong resident of Clermont County's Miami Township, along the eastern shore of Little Miami River near Milford and Loveland. One of four children (two daughters, two sons) of Augustus (\"Gus\") and Jeannette Hoffman, she has a twin sister, Jennifer Black. Her father made his money in the savings and loan industry, then ran an auto racing team that competed in the Indianapolis 500.\n\nShe earned a B.A. in political science from the University of Cincinnati in 1974. Schmidt worked in her father's bank, the Midwestern Savings Association, as a branch manager from 1971 to 1978. Schmidt was a delegate to the Republican National Convention in 1984. She was a fitness instructor from 1984 to 1986, when she began a four-year career as a schoolteacher.\n\nSchmidt was elected as a Miami Township trustee in 1989, finishing first of three candidates for two seats and winning 4,362 votes. When Clermont County Commissioner Jerry McBride resigned in 1991 to become a judge, Schmidt was one of four candidates to replace him, but was not appointed by the Clermont County Republican Party. In her 1993 bid for reelection, she finished first in a field of four, taking 3,644 votes.\n\nIn 1995, she traveled to Russia to offer instruction about political campaigning in a country that had little experience of free elections. On her trip she ran in Moscow's Red Square: \"Did I ever feel unsafe? No. And would I jog through Central Park in New York? No way.\"\n\nOne major issue during her service on the Board of Trustees was one common in Ohio: a city, in this case Milford, was annexing parts of the township. She and other trustees lobbied the Ohio General Assembly for new laws to protect townships from such annexations. In 1993, a panel of Miami Township residents recommended the township incorporate to protect itself from annexations, to have greater control over its territory, and to obtain more money from the state. However, Schmidt as a trustee was not a participant in this effort, saying she had to be a \"cheerleader\" on the sides. (The incorporation effort failed.)\n\nSchmidt was reelected to a third term in 1997, finishing first in a field of three with 5,110 votes. She resigned her trustee seat to enter the Ohio House. The remaining two trustees appointed Mary Makley Wolff to the remainder of the term.\n\nIn 2000 she ran for the Ohio House of Representatives seat being vacated by Sam Bateman, who was prevented by term limits from running again. She told \"The Cincinnati Post\" that before Bateman had been appointed to the seat in the early 1980s, Clermont County Republican leaders \"offered me the job on a silver platter\" but she turned them down because her daughter was only four years old at the time. But in 2000, her daughter was in college and she decided to run. Unopposed in the March primary, \"The Cincinnati Enquirer\" endorsed her in the general election, writing \"Seldom has a choice been more obvious than that between Republican Jean Schmidt and Democrat Sherrill Callahan.\" Schmidt was easily elected to the 124th Ohio General Assembly from the 71st House District by defeating Callahan, a retired high school principal from Pierce Township. Schmidt received 36,433 votes (70.4 percent) to Callahan's 15,327 (29.6 percent).\n\nHer district was entirely within Clermont County, containing Miami Township as well as Batavia, Goshen, Pierce, Stonelick and Union Townships, plus the villages of Amelia, Batavia and the city of Milford, and the Clermont County part of the city of Loveland. After the redistricting necessitated by the 2000 census, her district became the 66th and contained the same territory minus Pierce and Stonelick Townships.\"\n\n\"The Cincinnati Enquirer\" wrote she introduced and passed bills \"remarkable in number and quality for a neophyte lawmaker.\" She sponsored legislation on the Clermont County courts, limiting the ability of public employees to collect both pension and salary simultaneously (\"double dipping\"), urban townships, and protecting townships from annexations of their territory by cities, all of which were passed into law. She also pushed legislation on the health of women, suicide prevention, abstinence education, and to \"lock killers away for good\" by making it easier for judges to sentence murderers to life terms. Schmidt also supported Ohio's concealed carry law.\n\nIn the House she served on the Finance and Appropriations; Human Services and Aging; Banking, Pensions and Securities; and Public Utilities Committees. She was excited to be in the Statehouse: \"Oh my God, I'm really a state representative\" she was overheard telling a fellow freshman. In 2002, she was elected to the 125th General Assembly without opposition in both the primary and general elections.\n\nIn 2004, she ran for the 14th District seat in the Ohio Senate to replace Senate President Doug White, who was retiring. The Senate seat included Clermont, Brown, Adams and Scioto counties and part of Lawrence County. Her opponent for the Republican nomination was Tom Niehaus, a fellow member of the Ohio House from New Richmond whose 88th District represented the half of Clermont County outside her district plus Brown and Adams Counties to the east. Schmidt told the \"Enquirer\" \"The fear from many of the people I meet is that because the next senator will come from Clermont County, they will be underrepresented. But if you know anything about me, I don't under-represent anybody.\" She also said she worried about the state budget: \"We do have a history of overspending in Ohio. But it's not just recent history. It's a 40-year-old habit.\" \"The Enquirer\" was dismayed by advertisements from the Ohio Taxpayers Association \"twisting the two candidates' voting records to Schmidt's advantage\" and endorsed Niehaus.\n\nSchmidt had endorsements from key state leaders such as Ohio State Treasurer Joe Deters and Speaker of the Ohio House Larry Householder. The campaign was marred by allegations that Householder's staff had improperly tried to obtain Niehaus's withdrawal from the race and that Householder had told Niehaus's supporters to donate money to Schmidt's campaign. In the initial count of the Republican primary vote on March 2, 2004, she led by just 62 votes. A recount was automatically ordered, which reversed the outcome. Schmidt ultimately lost by just 22 votes: 17,076 (49.9%) to Niehaus's 17,098 (50%). She told \"The Cincinnati Enquirer\" on election night \"This is the way my whole life has been—one tough race after another.\"\n\n\nWhen President George W. Bush nominated Rob Portman, who had just been elected to a sixth full term, to be U.S. Trade Representative on March 17, 2005, eleven Republicans entered the race for his seat.\n\nSchmidt launched her campaign for Congress in Montgomery on April 11, the first candidate from outside Hamilton County to declare. She emphasized the need for all parts of the district to be represented: \"We must always balance the interests of Hamilton County, which is more urban, with those of the more rural part of our district.\" She said of her predecessor, \"While I know that I cannot fill Rob's shoes, I know that I am the right person to continue the tradition of leadership and character.\" Early polling showed Hamilton County Commissioner Pat DeWine leading at 42%, with Schmidt tied for third at 7%.\n\nIn her campaign, Schmidt ran on a conservative platform. In one mailing to voters, she promised to \"reduce our taxes\", \"keep our nation safe\", advocated \"a responsible energy policy\", and for \"promoting family values.\" The tag line on the mailer was \"continuing a tradition of character and leadership.\" Schmidt's campaign literature noted her anti-abortion voting record, her opposition to same-sex marriage, her high ratings from the National Rifle Association, and that she \"opposes an activist court system that acts against our conservative values.\" The literature also featured her endorsement by Phil Fulton, a pastor who fought the court ordered removal of tablets containing the Ten Commandments from the grounds of schools in Adams County.\n\nA major factor in the primary campaign was DeWine's marriage. In 2004, DeWine's opponent ran ads calling attention to DeWine leaving his pregnant wife and their two children for a mistress working as a lobbyist. Schmidt made it a point in her stump speech to emphasize how long she had been married to her husband: \"I am a woman of character who has been married for twenty-nine years.\"\n\nDespite being far outspent by DeWine, on June 14, 2005, Schmidt finished first in the Republican primary, with 31 percent of the vote. McEwen finished second with 25 percent, Brinkman was third with 20 percent, and DeWine had 12 percent. Two days after the primary, an editorial cartoon in \"The Cincinnati Enquirer\", commenting on DeWine's marriage being such a factor in the primary, showed Schmidt asking Paul Hackett, who had won the Democratic primary, \"You have a good marriage. I have a good marriage. What the heck are we going to campaign about?\" Many politicos blame Dewine's barrage of attacks on McEwen as the main reason for Schmidt's win.\n\nSchmidt faced Democratic nominee Paul Hackett, described by \"The New York Times\" as six foot four and \"garrulous, profane, and quick with a barked retort or a mischievous joke\" in the August 2, 2005, special election. Hackett had organized the recall of a councilman in Milford in 1995 and was elected to the council in his place, serving three years. He had also just returned from a tour of duty in Iraq and referred to his combat experiences in the campaign.\n\nThe district was reliably Republican, the \"Cook Political Report\" calling the Second District the fifty-seventh most Republican in America. Among Ohio's congressional districts, only the 4th District is considered more Republican. The district had been in Republican hands for all but nine years since 1879, and no Democrat had held the seat since Thomas A. Luken's narrow loss to Willis D. Gradison in 1974. The last Democrat to win a full term in the district was John J. Gilligan, who held the seat for one term after being swept into office in the giant Democratic landslide of 1964.\n\nJohn Green, a political science professor at the University of Akron told \"USA Today\" \"It's a real steep uphill climb for Hackett. It is such a Republican district.\" Jane S. Anderson, an adjunct professor of political science at the University of Cincinnati who has unsuccessfully run for the Cincinnati city council and the Ohio House as a Democrat, told the Associated Press\n\nIt's definitely worth it to the Democrats to put in the effort if only to keep the party energized. Even if Paul Hackett loses, it is very important for the party for him to do well. It could be seen as a sign of opportunities for Democrats in other GOP strongholds.\n\nMartin Gottlieb of the \"Dayton Daily News\" wrote a Republican landslide in the district was \"a self-fulfilling prophecy\":\n\nIt is so overwhelmingly Republican that Democrats typically don't make a real effort as a party. A candidate puts himself up, but generally it's somebody who has no political strengths and gets no financial contributions or volunteer help to speak of. The campaign gets little attention. And the prophecy gets fulfilled.\n\nHackett criticized Schmidt as a \"rubber stamp\" for Governor Bob Taft's \"failed policies\", and claimed she would continue in that role for George W. Bush if elected. At their debate at Chatfield College, Hackett said \"If you think America is on the right track and we need more of the same, I'm not your candidate\" and asked \"Are you better off today than you were five years ago?\", echoing Ronald Reagan's question in his debate with Jimmy Carter in 1980. \"Rubber stamp\" was Hackett's catchphrase throughout the campaign. Hackett even appeared in front of the Hathaway Rubber Stamp store in downtown Cincinnati on July 27 to emphasize the point. \"If you think America needs another career politician steeped in a culture of corruption who does as she's told and toes the line on failed policies, then I'm not your candidate,\" he wrote in a guest column for \"The Cincinnati Post\". However, Schmidt said that she was proud to be associated with Bush, sending campaign mail with a photograph of them together in the Oval Office.\n\nA month before the election the inspector general of the Ohio General Assembly announced he was investigating three legislators for accepting gifts and failing to report them. Schmidt was implicated in this, but could not be investigated because she was no longer a member of the Ohio house. (The others were Representatives Jim Raussen of Springdale, Michelle G. Schneider of Madeira, and Diana M. Fessler of New Carlisle.) On October 24, 2004, the legislators had accepted dinner at Nicola's Ristorante on Sycamore Street in Cincinnati's Over-the-Rhine neighborhood and Cincinnati Bengals tickets from a lobbyist for pharmaceutical company Chiron. Schmidt said she thought her $644 gift was from former Bengals player Boomer Esiason, who was, like Chiron, interested in cystic fibrosis. Schmidt repaid the lobbyist for the cost of the entertainment. Her spokesman told \"The Columbus Dispatch\" \"Jean specifically asked if this was a reportable gift. We immediately corrected it by paying the full price of the tickets.\" Her former colleague Raussen blamed the lobbyist. \"Here we have a lobbyist who was extremely sloppy.\"\n\nHackett hammered on Schmidt's ethics. When she denied she knew or ever met Thomas Noe, at the center of the Coingate investment scandal at the Ohio Bureau of Workers' Compensation, Hackett produced minutes from a meeting of the Ohio Board of Regents that showed Schmidt had indeed met with Noe, once a regent. On July 29, the \"Toledo Blade\" reported on a 2001 e-mail from Taft's assistant Jon Allison complaining Schmidt was \"bugging\" him about setting up an Internet lottery for Cincinnati businessman Roger Ach, who gave her a $1,000 contribution the next year. Schmidt spokesman Fritz Wenzel said the candidate did not recall any conversations with the governor about Ach's business.\n\nThe candidates participated in only two debates. The first was held on July 7 at Chatfield College in St. Martin in Brown County, moderated by Jack Atherton of WXIX-TV, the Fox Network affiliate in Cincinnati. Hackett told the audience his opponent was \"a rubber stamp for failed policies\" and \"if you think America is on the right track and we need more of the same, I'm not your candidate.\" The second debate was held July 26 at the Ohio Valley Career and Technical Center in West Union in Adams County. Howard Wilkinson of \"The Cincinnati Enquirer\" said Hackett in the second debate was \"trying to paint Schmidt as a Taft-Bush robot.\" The two also made joint appearances on WCET-TV's \"Forum\" on July 28 and WKRC-TV's \"Newsmakers\" on July 31.\n\n\"The Cincinnati Enquirer\" ran a front page story on July 2 reporting on the candidates financial disclosure statements that revealed both were millionaires. Schmidt was worth between $1,700,000 and $6,800,000; most of her wealth was her share of RTJJ, LLC, a real estate company owned with her three siblings. Hackett was worth between $650,000 and $1,600,000. (These figures did not include the value of either's home. The Clermont County Auditor valued Schmidt's home on at $138,510 and the Hamilton County Auditor valued Hackett's home on at $552,800.)\n\nSchmidt used her own wealth in the campaign. She told \"The Cincinnati Post\" the week before the election she put $200,000 of her money in the campaign that she had planned to use to buy a condominium in Florida. The paper noted the median household income in the district was $46,813.\n\nHackett attracted national attention in newspapers, and expenditures by both parties at the national level. The National Republican Congressional Committee announced on July 28 it was spending $265,000 for television ads in the Cincinnati market, covering the western part of the district, and $250,000 for ads in the Huntington, West Virginia, market, covering the eastern half. The Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee (DCCC) responded with commercials noting that Schmidt had voted to raise the sales tax by 20% and the excise tax on gasoline by 30 percent when she was in the legislature. A DCCC mailing to voters reiterated these charges under the headline \"Who Voted for the Taft Sales Tax Increase—the Largest in Ohio History?\" and asked \"can we trust Jean Schmidt to protect middle-class families in Washington?\"\n\nSchmidt defeated Hackett 52%–48%, a margin of three points, the worst showing of any Republican in the district since 1974, but which made her the second Republican woman elected to Congress from Ohio in her own right (behind Deborah Pryce) and the first woman to represent southwestern Ohio in Congress. Schmidt in her victory speech late on election night declared:\n\nWe began this race way back in late March, and no one had thought we'd be the focus of the national media or be the so-called first test of the Republican Party and the Bush mandate. Well, ladies and gentlemen, we passed that test.\n\nSchmidt faced Democrat Victoria Wells Wulsin, a doctor from Indian Hill in the November general election. \n\nDuring Schmidt's re-election bid there were several controversies, which affected her campaign. One was a March 2006 report about Schmidt's past claims that she had a B.A. in secondary education from the University of Cincinnati, awarded in 1986. Schmidt's defenders pointed out that neither her current official or campaign website had the second degree posted, and said that Schmidt had completed the requirements for the degree but never filed the paperwork to be awarded a diploma. On April 27, five days before the May 2 primary, the Ohio Elections Commission voted 7-0 to issue Schmidt a public reprimand for \"false statements\" for her claiming to have that second degree. The Commission also found that Schmidt had made false claims of being endorsed by several organizations, but that these did not warrant any reprimand.\n\nSchmidt won the Republican primary defeating former U.S. Congressman Bob McEwen 48%–43%.\n\nShe defeated Wulsin 51%–49%, a difference of 2,865 votes, and a margin of 1.3%. This was the closest a Republican had come to losing the seat in 42 years. Schmidt held her seat by winning her home base in Clermont County by almost 8,000 votes.\n\nOn January 20, 2008, Schmidt received the Hamilton County Republican Party's endorsement for the March 4 Republican primary. In the Republican primary, she defeated State Representative Tom Brinkman Jr. 58%–40%.\n\nThe Schmidt campaign sent out a fundraising letter accusing her Democratic opponent, Victoria Wulsin of harboring a \"contempt for the culture of life\" that led her to \"participate in grotesque medical experiments\" involving injections of \"malaria virus\" into AIDS patients in Africa and China without their consent. The Wulsin campaign vigorously denied the charges. \n\nThe \"grotesque medical experiments\" charge appears to be a reference to 2004 work that Wulsin did with the Heimlich Institute in Ohio. She examined data that was supplied to her as part of a literature review, taken from ongoing studies, of experimental AIDS therapies that Wulsin concluded had potential. \"She never participated in any of the studies,\" said Wulsin communications director Kevin Franck. \"She was never in a position to stop any of them while they were in progress ... Jean Schmidt knew that those complaints and those allegations had no merit when she mailed the letter.\" There is also no such thing as a malaria virus, as malaria is caused by protozoans.\n\nSchmidt was struck by a hit and run driver while jogging, and was diagnosed with two broken ribs and two fractured vertebrae. The injuries were not diagnosed immediately after the accident. However, the week following the accident she was embarking on a weekend fact-finding visit to Afghanistan when severe pain caused her to pass out while landing at a U.S. Air Force Base in Germany. As a sign of respect, her Democratic opponent, Victoria Wulsin, suspended her campaign while Schmidt rested at home.\n\nSchmidt defeated Wulsin and David Krikorian 45%–37%–18%. She underperformed Republican presidential nominee John McCain, who received 59% of the vote in the district. Obama garnered 40% in the district, performing slightly better than Wulsin.\n\n\nIn the Republican primary, she defeated County Commissioner Mike Kilburn, Debbi Alsfelder, and Tim Martz 62%–22%–9%–7%. In the general election, she won re-election to a third term by defeating Surya Yalamanchili 58%–35%.\n\n\nIn the March Republican primary, Schmidt was unexpectedly defeated by Iraq war veteran Brad Wenstrup 49%–43%. She carried six counties (all located in eastern part of the CD), while Wenstrup only won two counties (both located in the western part of CD): Hamilton County (59%) and Clermont County (50%).\n\nIn Congress, Schmidt sponsored non-binding resolutions that states hit by Hurricane Katrina and Hurricane Rita should adopt a uniform statewide building code (H. Con. Res. 285); that the words \"under God\" in the Pledge of Allegiance were not an unconstitutional endorsement of religion (H. Res. 453); and supporting Gold Star Mothers (H. J. Res. 61). As of 2005, she was the original sponsor of one bill, H.R. 4180, a campaign finance reform measure \"to require communications that consist of prerecorded telephone calls to meet the disclosure and disclaimer requirements applicable to general public campaign communications transmitted through radio.\" She cosponsored bills to provide ultrasounds to pregnant mothers (H.R. 216); to require women having abortions be \"fully informed regarding the pain experienced by their unborn child\" (H.R. 356); to allow free mail from families to servicemen in Iraq and Afghanistan (H.R. 923); to require the Food and Drug Administration to withdraw its approval of the abortifacient drug RU-486 because of safety concerns (H.R. 1079); the \"District of Columbia Personal Protection Act\", which would repeal District of Columbia law forbidding residents from owning guns (H.R. 1288); to ban human cloning (H.R. 1357); to repeal the excise tax on telephones (H.R. 1898); to forbid federal courts from hearing cases on the constitutionality of the Pledge of Allegiance (H.R. 2389); and to limit the use of eminent domain by the states, a reaction to the Supreme Court ruling in \"Kelo v. New London\" (H.R. 4128).\n\nSchmidt was sworn in on the evening of September 6, 2005. (Ordinarily, representatives chosen in special elections take office immediately, but the House was in its August recess at the time of the election.) In her maiden speech, Schmidt said:\n\nSchmidt has called for reducing America's dependence on foreign oil by increasing use of ethanol and drilling in Alaska's Arctic National Wildlife Refuge. Schmidt told \"The Cincinnati Post\" \"What's really important is to adopt an environmental policy that advances the American economy and national security. I supported the energy bill recently passed by the U.S. House that will expand the use of alternative energy sources and additives like ethanol.\"\n\nThe League of Conservation Voters, a political action committee advocating for environmental concerns, gave Schmidt a lifetime average of 6 on a scale of 0 to 100. In 2005, she was rated at 0.\n\nSchmidt supported the tax cuts championed by President George W. Bush. Schmidt called for additional changes to the Internal Revenue Code, such as adopting a flat tax and repealing the estate and capital gains taxes. Schmidt also professed to be a fiscal conservative. A mailing sent to voters listed four examples of \"wasteful spending in Washington,\" which included \"$45,000 to buy gold plated playing cards for Air Force Two!\" and \"$1.2 million to study the breeding habits of a woodchuck!\"\n\nSchmidt is strongly anti-abortion. When she launched her candidacy, she was president of the Right-to-Life of Greater Cincinnati. At the Chatfield College debate, Schmidt said \"Roe v. Wade\" was \"a flawed law made by activist judges\" and would \"love to see\" it reversed. Schmidt mailed literature to voters with an endorsement from Paula Westwood, executive director of Cincinnati Right-to-Life:\n\nJean's legislative experience is invaluable to Right to Life of Greater Cincinnati's efforts and goals for the coming years. But more importantly, she has a tenacious devotion to the sanctity of human life from conception to natural death already demonstrated in her political and private life.\n\nSchmidt made the Iraq War an issue in the race. She declared on WCET-TV's \"Forum\" that \"9/11 was a wakeup call. We lost our innocence\" and praised the Bush foreign policy. \"The foundation of democracy that has been planted in Afghanistan and Iraq\", she said, has inspired reforms in Saudi Arabia, Syria, Lebanon and elsewhere. At the Chatfield College debate on July 7, she said of Iraq and Saddam Hussein \"We have toppled a terrorist regime, a terrorist madman who now sits in a prison cell. This country has gone to the ballot box and made its decision to become a democratic regime.\"\n\nSchmidt appeared in public with a button in her lapel containing a photograph of Matt Maupin, who was at the time the only prisoner of war of the Iraq campaign who had not been freed and who was a native of Clermont County.\n\n\nOn November 18, 2005, the House debated a Republican-sponsored resolution, H. Res. 572, calling for the immediate withdrawal of troops from Iraq. It was prompted by the call of John P. Murtha, Jr., a Democrat from Pennsylvania, who introduced H.J. Res. 73, which called for the redeployment of American forces as soon as possible. In response, Armed Services Committee chairman Duncan L. Hunter of California introduced H. Res. 571, which the Republican leadership admitted was intended to demonstrate that calls for troop withdrawal were \"out of the mainstream.\" Democrats in turn roundly criticized the Hunter resolution as a sham that misstated Murtha's position.\n\nDuring debate on adopting the rule for debating the resolution, H. Res. 563, Schmidt said:\n\nYesterday I stood at Arlington National Cemetery attending the funeral of a young Marine in my district. He believed in what we were doing is the right thing and had the courage to lay his life on the line to do it. A few minutes ago I received a call from Colonel Danny Bubp, Ohio Representative from the 88th district in the House of Representatives. He asked me to send Congress a message: Stay the course. He also asked me to send Congressman Murtha a message, that cowards cut and run, Marines never do. Danny and the rest of America and the world want the assurance from this body—that we will see this through.\n\nSchmidt's remarks threw the House into an uproar and earned her the sobriquet \"Mean Jean\". Many Democrats saw it as an unwarranted attack against Murtha, a 38-year Marine Corps veteran. After she said \"cowards cut and run, Marines never do,\" angry Democrats nearly drowned out her words. Victor F. Snyder, a former Marine, of Arkansas demanded that Schmidt's remarks be \"taken down.\" Under this disciplinary procedure, the House clerk would have re-read Schmidt's words and the presiding officer (at the time, Michael K. Simpson of Idaho) would have ruled whether they were parliamentary. Had they been ruled unparliamentary, Schmidt would not have been able to speak for the rest of the day without permission.\n\nAfter 10 minutes, Schmidt asked for and received permission to withdraw her remarks and apologized to Murtha.\n\nA spokeswoman for Bubp said that the state representative \"did not mention Congressman Murtha by name nor did he mean to disparage Congressman Murtha\" and that he felt \"the words that Congresswoman Schmidt chose did not represent their conversation.\" The \"Cincinnati Enquirer\" reported Bubp said \"he never mentioned ... Murtha . . . by name when talking with Schmidt, and he would never call a fellow Marine a coward.\"\n\nOn March 8, 2006, \"The Cincinnati Enquirer\" reported Representatives Tom Tancredo of Colorado and Steve Chabot of Ohio stated they had not endorsed Schmidt even though Schmidt's campaign site claimed they had. Chabot later said he had endorsed both Schmidt and her primary opponent. Schmidt also claimed an endorsement from the Family Research Council, which was repudiated by the organization. After a review, the Ohio Elections Commission found that the Tancredo and Family Research Council endorsement claims were false but did not warrant any reprimand.\n\nWLW-AM reported on March 28, 2006, that Schmidt had, since 1989, claimed a B.A. in secondary education from the University of Cincinnati awarded in 1986. Schmidt had previously listed two degrees on candidate guides, her official Ohio House bio, and past campaign websites. But after her election to Congress, neither her current official or campaign website had the second degree posted. Schmidt's chief of staff, Barry Bennett, told \"The Plain Dealer\" Schmidt had completed the requirements for the degree but never filed the paperwork to be awarded a diploma. \"I think it's fair to say that she earned it and never collected it,\" Bennett said.\n\nOn April 27, five days before the May 2 primary against McEwen, the Ohio Elections Commission voted 7–0 to issue Schmidt a public reprimand for \"false statements\" for her claiming to have a second undergraduate degree from the University of Cincinnati that she was not awarded. The Commission wrote in its letter of reprimand that Schmidt had \"reckless disregard for truth.\"\n\nSchmidt insisted the error regarding her degrees was a mistake by her staff. On May 1, the day before the election, Schmidt appeared on Bill Cunninham's show on WLW-AM in Cincinnati and was asked by a caller about the OEC reprimand. Schmidt repeated her insistence the error was caused by the designer of her website incorrectly listing her teaching certificate as a degree in secondary education and social studies.\n\nAt the Voice of America Tea Party on September 5, 2009, Schmidt, in response to a woman who said that Barack Obama \"cannot be a president by our constitution,\" replied, \"I agree with you, but the courts don't.\" Schmidt's statement to the woman appeared to contradict a statement Schmidt made in July 2009 to \"Loveland Magazine\" in which she said that \"The President is indeed a Citizen of this country\" and that she \"voted as a Member of the House to certify the vote of the Electoral College electing him as our President.\"\n\nOn June 28, 2012, a video was captured of Schmidt enthusiastically responding to erroneous reports from Fox News Channel that the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act was overturned by the Supreme Court in the landmark \"National Federation of Independent Business v. Sebelius\" ruling.\n\nIn 2009 Armenian-American candidate David Krikorian called out Schmidt for her failure to publicly define the Armenian Genocide as a genocide. His concern arose from a statement released by Schmidt's office noting that \"at this time she [Schmidt] does not have enough information to characterize these deaths as genocide especially since those responsible are long since dead.\"\n\nA few days before the 2008 congressional election, Krikorian published a letter stating that \"Jean Schmidt has taken $30,000 in blood money from Turkish government sponsored political action committees to deny the slaughter of 1.5 million Armenian men, women and children by the Ottoman Turkish Government during World War I.\" Finally, the flier asserted that it could be adequately verified by the Federal Election Commission's website. He repeated the letter to the Ohio Elections Commission.\n\nThe Ohio Elections Commission issued a split decision on the case, failing to find that all of the preceding three remarks had been published in violation of ORC 3517.21(B)(10) by clear and convincing evidence. In a series of 4 panel votes, Commissioners affirmed that Turkish American funds are a primary source of support for Rep. Schmidt's political campaign, but chided Krikorian for statements related to Turkish Government funding of his opponent, because such a funding would be illegal. The votes were taken after a panel decision to disregard testimony provided regarding the Armenian Genocide and its denial, which was criticized by David Krikorian's party and supporters. Schmidt also attempted, to no avail, to press criminal charges against Krikorian for his statements. Sibel Edmonds, a former FBI translator, testified on behalf of Krikorian during the Ohio Elections Commission hearing and spoke about Turkey's connections to Schmidt.\n\nIn October 2010, a federal court rejected David Krikorian's appeal.\n\nIn June 2010, Schmidt unsuccessfully filed a $6.8 million dollar lawsuit against David Krikorian.\n\nIn July 2011, the House Ethics Committee announced that it was investigating accusations that Schmidt had accepted roughly $500,000 in free legal services from a Turkish-American interest group (the Turkish Coalition of America). Schmidt said that she hadn't received a bill for the legal services in question, and that she had been waiting for more than a year for guidance from the ethics committee on the proper procedure to pay the bill. In August 2011, the Ethics Committee rendered its decision, holding that the interest group's payment for legal services in connection with her proceedings against Krikorian had been improper, and ordering Schmidt to repay the group $500,000.\n\nOn September 21, 2011, the Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington added Schmidt to its \"most corrupt\" list for \"accept[ing] hundreds of thousands of dollars in free legal services from lawyers hired by an interest group that appreciated her legislative assistance\" as well as \"fail[ure] to report the free legal services as gifts in her disclosure forms.\" In October 2011, CREW requested that the Office of Congressional Ethics investigate whether Schmidt lied to the House Ethics Committee regarding inquiries into free legal services.\n\nAs part of the Ethics Committee ruling, Schmidt was given permission to establish a legal expense fund to help refund the illegal gifts from the Turkish Coalition of America. Through September 30, 2012—approximately one year after establishing the fund—Schmidt has raised a total of $5000 and made no payments from the legal expense fund to repay the illegal gifts.\n\nThe sole contribution to the legal expense fund, $5000, came from a Turkish linked aviation firm, Global Eclipse, LLC.\n\nSchmidt left office on January 4 of 2013. Under House Rules, she was required to file one last financial disclosure statement by February 4. She failed to do so, but on March 1, 2013, she finally filed that form disclosing that she left Congress owing the Turkish Coalition of America a debt in the range between $515,000 and $1.05 million.\n\nIn August 2011, David Krikorian filed a complaint with the Federal Election Commission alleging that the illegal gifts received by Schmidt from the Turkish Coalition of America were also illegal campaign contributions. On January 13, 2015 the Federal Election Commission issued its findings; that the Turkish Coalition of America and its president, Lincoln McCurdy, had violated 52 U.S.C.§ 30118 a) and that the Schmidt for Congress Committee had violated 52 U.S.C. §§ 30118 a) and 30104 b) provisions of the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971.\n\nOn June 14, 2016, Schmidt's campaign committee entered into a conciliation agreement with the FEC, agreeing that the Turkish Coalition of America's payment of over $600,000 of her legal bills constituted an illegal campaign contribution and that her campaign had accepted illegal campaign contributions from the Turkish Coalition of America and had failed to report those contributions. Schmidt for Congress agreed to pay a nominal fine. The FEC accepted a nominal fine because \"the Committee has plans to terminate, has very little cash, and has a limited ability to raise any additional funds.\"\n\nThe Turkish Coalition of America agreed to pay a $25,000 fine as a result of its illegal campaign contributions.\n\nSchmidt and her husband, Peter W. Schmidt have one child, a daughter, Emilie (born in 1978). A Roman Catholic, she has been a member of Elizabeth Ann Seton Church since 1978. She is a marathon runner.\n\nSchmidt is a member of the Clermont County Chamber of Commerce, the Clermont County 20/20 Committee, Clermont County League of Women Voters, the Clermont County Agricultural Society, Clermont County Township Association, and the Milford-Miami Township Chamber of Commerce.\n\nShe was elected chairman of the Greater Cincinnati Right to Life organization in 2005. Schmidt was a trustee of the Clermont County Library from 1980 to 1992 and 1994 to 2000. She was reappointed to the board in 2005. She is also a director of the Mercy Hospital Clermont Foundation Board.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2001586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001586", "title": "Cameron Heights Collegiate Institute", "text": "Cameron Heights Collegiate Institute\n\nCameron Heights Collegiate Institute is a public secondary school in Kitchener, Ontario. It is part of the International Baccalaureate (IB) program. The school is located at 301 Charles St. E. in the east end of Downtown Kitchener, Ontario. It is also part of the Waterloo Region District School Board. The school is also one of only two secondary schools in Ontario with its own campus radio station.\n\nThe International Baccalaureate (IB) Diploma Programme is a two-year curriculum, primarily for students aged 16 to 19. Previous to the two years of enrolling into the IB program, students may enroll in taking \"Pre-IB\" courses. Higher level (HL) courses offered include Biology, Chemistry, History, Psychology, and English. Standard level (SL) courses offered include Mathematics and Math Studies, a choice between French B or Spanish Ab Initio, and a choice between Business Management, Visual Arts, Music, Physics, or Chemistry. The Extended Essay, Theory of Knowledge (IB Course), and CAS make up the rest of the IB Diploma.\n\nThe school's teams are known as the Golden Gaels, and Cameron's mascot is Scotty, the Golden Gael. The school also has a radio station known as \"88.5 Gael FM\", and provides radio shows daily for the school (morning, and lunch time). The CHCI Debate Team is particularly active, attending Nationals and North Americans four years running. The Multicultural Club also puts on a multi-cultural show every year that draws hundreds of spectators from around the KW area. The school has won 6 straight WCSSAA track and field championships, 5 consecutive CWOSSA appearances for the senior boys curling team, 5 WCSSAA titles in 6 years for the cross country team, as well as OFSAA gold by badminton and tennis athletes. \n\nThe school was built in 1967. At the time, it was the largest secondary school built in Ontario in one phase. At the front entrance to the school is a tall three-arch portico constructed out of stainless steel. There are two datestones by the entrance, one of which is inscribed \"1867\" (Canada's year of confederacy).\n\nThe school is located just over one block east along Charles Street from the Kitchener Market ION light rail station. Local Grand River Transit bus routes that stop nearby are the 2, 3, 6, 7, and 8.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2001597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001597", "title": "Venus and the Razorblades", "text": "Venus and the Razorblades\n\nVenus and the Razorblades were a short-lived punk rock band from Los Angeles, California, formed and managed by Kim Fowley after he severed professional relations with The Runaways. They are believed to be one of the first mixed-gender American punk band. The band included guitarist/singer Roni Lee (born Rhonda Lee Ryckman), who had co-written the song \"I Wanna Be Where the Boys Are\" for the Runaways; guitarist/singer Steven T.; bassist Danielle Faye (formerly of Atomic Kid); drummer Nickey Beat (formerly of The Weirdos and the Germs) (who was soon replaced by Kyle Raven); and singers Dyan Diamond and Vicki Razorblade (born Vicki Arnold). When the band formed, Diamond and Razorblade were only 14 and 17 years old respectively. Session musicians were used in some of the band's recordings.\n\nThe Woman's International Music Network, founded by Laura B. Whitmore, gives credit to Venus and the Razorblades, as well as the Runaways, for performing in a genre that was dominated mostly by men. Venus and the Razorblades played a memorable concert with Van Halen at the Whisky a Go Go in 1976, and Van Halen sometimes played the Venus and the Razorblades song \"Young and Wild\" in their early concert performances.\n\nThe band put out a novelty single called \"Punk-A-Rama\" on the independent label Bomp! Records to capitalize on the popularity of the punk rock genre, but then broke up. A compilation album called \"Songs from the Sunshine Jungle\" was released in 1978 on Visa Records; it is extremely rare today. After Venus and the Razorblades disbanded, Fowley tried to make Dyan Diamond into a star, and got her a deal with MCA Records; her 1978 album, \"In the Dark\" was a commercial failure.. Roni Lee collaborated and performed with Randy California and Ed Cassidy of Spirit, as well as Mars Bonfire and Jerry Edmonton of Steppenwolf, in 1977-78. \nIn 2013, Lee was granted an endorsement with Paul Reed Smith guitars for her distinctive style of playing as well as her place in punk rock's early history. Lee released the album \"Heros of Sunset Blvd.\" in 2016. \n\n"}
{"id": "2001621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001621", "title": "Solutions of the Einstein field equations", "text": "Solutions of the Einstein field equations\n\nSolutions of the Einstein field equations are spacetimes that result from solving the Einstein field equations (EFE) of general relativity. Solving the field equations actually gives a Lorentz manifold. Solutions are broadly classed as \"exact\" or \"non-exact\".\n\nThe Einstein field equations are\n\nor more generally, if one allows a nonzero cosmological constant, \n\nwhere formula_3 is a constant, and the Einstein tensor on the left side of the equation is equated to the stress–energy tensor representing the energy and momentum present in the spacetime. The Einstein tensor is built up from the metric tensor and its partial derivatives; thus, the EFE are a system of ten partial differential equations to be solved for the metric.\n\nIt is important to realize that the Einstein field equations alone are not enough to determine the evolution of a gravitational system in many cases. They depend on the stress–energy tensor, which depends on the dynamics of matter and energy (such as trajectories of moving particles), which in turn depends on the gravitational field. If one is only interested in the weak field limit of the theory, the dynamics of matter can be computed using special relativity methods and/or Newtonian laws of gravity and then the resulting stress–energy tensor can be plugged into the Einstein field equations. But if the exact solution is required or a solution describing strong fields, the evolution of the metric and the stress–energy tensor must be solved for together.\n\nTo obtain solutions, the relevant equations are the above quoted EFE (in either form) plus the continuity equation (to determine evolution of the stress–energy tensor):\n\nThis is clearly not enough, as there are only 14 equations (10 from the field equations and 4 from the continuity equation) for 20 unknowns (10 metric components and 10 stress–energy tensor components). Equations of state are missing. In the most general case, it's easy to see that at least 6 more equations are required, possibly more if there are internal degrees of freedom (such as temperature) which may vary throughout space-time.\n\nIn practice, it is usually possible to simplify the problem by replacing the full set of equations of state with a simple approximation. Some common approximations are:\n\n\n\nHere formula_8 is the mass-energy density measured in a momentary co-moving frame, formula_9 is the fluid's 4-velocity vector field, and formula_10 is the pressure.\n\n\nFor a perfect fluid, another equation of state relating density formula_8 and pressure formula_10 must be added. This equation will often depend on temperature, so a heat transfer equation is required or the postulate that heat transfer can be neglected.\n\nNext, notice that only 10 of the original 14 equations are independent, because the continuity equation formula_14 is a consequence of Einstein's equations. This reflects the fact that the system is gauge invariant (in general, absent some symmetry, any choice of a curvilinear coordinate net on the same system would correspond to a numerically different solution.) A \"gauge fixing\" is needed, i.e. we need to impose 4 (arbitrary) constraints on the coordinate system in order to obtain unequivocal results. These constraints are known as coordinate conditions.\n\nA popular choice of gauge is the so-called \"De Donder gauge\", also known as the harmonic condition or harmonic gauge\n\nIn numerical relativity, the preferred gauge is the so-called \"3+1 decomposition\", based on the ADM formalism. In this decomposition, metric is written in the form\n\nformula_18 and formula_19 are functions of spacetime coordinates and can be chosen arbitrarily in each point. The remaining physical degrees of freedom are contained in formula_20, which represents the Riemannian metric on 3-hypersurfaces formula_21. For example, a naive choice of formula_22, formula_23, would correspond to a so-called synchronous coordinate system: one where t-coordinate coincides with proper time for any comoving observer (particle that moves along a fixed formula_24 trajectory.)\n\nOnce equations of state are chosen and the gauge is fixed, the complete set of equations can be solved for. Unfortunately, even in the simplest case of gravitational field in the vacuum ( vanishing stress–energy tensor ), the problem turns out too complex to be exactly solvable. To get physical results, we can either turn to numerical methods; try to find exact solutions by imposing symmetries; or try middle-ground approaches such as perturbation methods or linear approximations of the Einstein tensor.\n\nExact solutions are Lorentz metrics that are conformable to a physically realistic stress–energy tensor and which are obtained by solving the EFE exactly in closed form.\n\nScholarpedia article on the subject written by Malcolm MacCallum\n\nThose solutions that are not exact are called \"non-exact solutions\". Such solutions mainly arise due to the difficulty of solving the EFE in closed form and often take the form of approximations to ideal systems. Many non-exact solutions may be devoid of physical content, but serve as useful counterexamples to theoretical conjectures.\n\nAl Momin argues that Kurt Gödel's solution to these equations do not describe our universe and are therefore approximations.\n\nThere are practical as well as theoretical reasons for studying solutions of the Einstein field equations.\n\nFrom a purely mathematical viewpoint, it is interesting to know the set of solutions of the Einstein field equations. Some of these solutions are parametrised by one or more parameters.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2001641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001641", "title": "La folie (album)", "text": "La folie (album)\n\nLa folie is the sixth studio album by English new wave band The Stranglers. It was released on 9 November 1981, through record label Liberty; their first album on the label.\n\nThe Stranglers had initially been the most commercially successful band of the punk/new wave period in Britain, but by 1981, their success had waned noticeably. \"La folie\" was a conscious attempt to deliver a more commercial product. The band's record company, EMI, sent them into the studio with the record producer, Tony Visconti, giving him a brief to \"produce each song as if it was a hit single\".\n\nThe album's French language title literally translates to \"madness\". In various interviews, the band related that this referred to \"The Madness of Love\" and that conceptually, each of the songs on the album was intended to explore a different kind or aspect of \"love\". The title track is also said to be based upon the story of Issei Sagawa. Hugh Cornwell related in \"The Stranglers – Song by Song\" that the correct title of the album's opening track was \"Non Stop Nun\", and he apparently had been unaware that the record company had printed it as simply \"Non Stop\".\n\nThere has been much controversy surrounding the lyrics to \"Golden Brown\". In his 2001 book \"The Stranglers Song By Song\", Hugh Cornwell states \"'Golden Brown' works on two levels. It's about heroin and also about a girl\". Essentially, the lyrics describe how \"both provided me with pleasurable times\".\n\n\"La folie\" was preceded by the release of the album's first single, \"Let Me Introduce You to the Family\", released on 2 November 1981 and reaching No. 42 in the UK Singles Chart. \"La folie\" was released seven days later.\n\nUpon its release, \"La folie\" looked set to be the band's lowest-charting album, but, buoyed by the success of the album's second single, \"Golden Brown\", released 10 January 1982 and reaching No. 2 in the singles chart, the album eventually peaked at No. 11 in the UK Albums Chart, spending eighteen weeks in the chart. The single would go on to become EMI's highest-selling single for many years. One more single was released from the album, the album's title track \"La folie\", on 20 April 1982, which reached No. 47.\n\n\"Trouser Press\" wrote of the album: \"Subtle, effective, mature and energetic – but no outstanding songs.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2001645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001645", "title": "The Quick (U.S. band)", "text": "The Quick (U.S. band)\n\nThe Quick were a mid-1970s power pop band based in Los Angeles. The Quick were influenced by 1960s British Invasion bands and 1970s British glam bands, as well as by fellow Angelenos Sparks (formerly Halfnelson).\n\nOver the course of its three-year existence, the band rapidly evolved a sound of its own and towards the last year became noteworthy for cleverly arranged vocal harmonies and blistering guitar solos frequently inspired by 1950s American rock & roll bands.\n\nDuring the band's three-year career, The Quick helped shape the face of punk rock in California.\n\nIn Los Angeles, between the glam and punk eras in the mid-1970s, there were few clubs for local bands to play original music. However, in early 1976 The Quick began playing at the Starwood and on Thanksgiving Weekend 1976 revived the Whisky A Go Go. During its career, The Quick played various club shows supporting such bands as Van Halen, Ramones, The Runaways, and Crack The Sky, in addition to headlining slots. The Quick's most-attended show was an opening slot for Starz at the 3,000-seat Santa Monica Civic Auditorium in 1977.\n\nThe Quick released a full-length album, 1976's \"Mondo Deco\" on Mercury Records, produced by Kim Fowley and engineered by Earle Mankey, the original guitarist of Sparks (formerly Halfnelson), one of the band's earlier influences. In 2003, various demo recordings were included on the 2003 rarities compilation \"Untold Rock Stories\" on Rev-Ola Records in the UK.\nIn March 1978, the band recorded singles produced by established Elektra Records staff arranger David Campbell. Referred to as \"The Elektra singles,\" (though the band never signed with Elektra Records) the songs displayed a shift in the band's early proto-punk/punk sound to a more experimental harder-rock approach. A few of the songs were released on 10\" and 7\" limited edition vinyl via the band's fan club, and all nine tracks were eventually released on \"Untold Rock Stories\".\n\nOne of those tracks, \"Pretty Please Me\", was played frequently by local KROQ-FM DJ Rodney Bingenheimer on his weekly \"Rodney On the ROQ\" radio show in 1978, but there were no records available to sell. The song was later covered and officially released by both Redd Kross and The Dickies.\n\nIn April 1978, the band invited fans to attend its 3rd anniversary show (and vote on the set list) at its Hollywood rehearsal space. It was The Quick's final show, as the group disbanded shortly afterwards.\n\nThe Quick have an intertwined history with long running punk rock band the Dickies. Steve Huffsteter, who went to school with Dickies vocalist Leonard Graves Phillips, gave guitar lessons to Dickies axeman Stan Lee. Huffsteter both introduced those two principals to one another, and encouraged their punk rock direction. Members of the Quick, who were dominating in terms of songwriting credits for their own band by Huffsteter, contributed to the Dickies' early canon. The Dickies, perhaps returning a favor, would go on to cover \"pretty please me\" on \"Stukas Over Disneyland\" (1983).\n\n\nMost of The Quick's material was written by guitarist Steven Hufsteter (who would later become a founding member of The Cruzados). He played in Tito & Tarantula with fellow former Cruzado member Tito Larriva.\nLead vocalist Danny Wilde and bassist Ian (Grey) Ainsworth formed Great Buildings and released one LP on Columbia Records. Wilde later partnered with Phil Solem as The Rembrandts. They found success with their recording of the Michael Skloff/Allee Willis-co-written song \"I'll Be There For You,\" which was used as the theme song for the TV show \"Friends\"\n\nKeyboardist Billy Bizeau would go on to collaborate on writing songs with Kim Fowley (the band's initial manager) for The Runaways.\n\nDrummer Danny Benair played with several other Los Angeles bands, including Flyboys, Choir Invisible, The Falcons, The Weirdos, and The Three O'Clock (formerly Salvation Army) before switching to the behind-the-scenes licensing business and founding a film soundtrack song placement agency, Natural Energy Lab.\n\nOne of their early songs, \"Guardian Angel\", appeared in 1978 on Rhino Records' \"Saturday Night Pogo\" new wave compilation LP. To avoid contractual issues, this early recording was credited to \"The Young Republicans\".\n\nProducer David Campbell is the father of noted alternative musician Beck Hansen.\n\nBenair's girlfriend during much of his tenure in The Quick was Lisa Fancher, who wrote liner notes for The Runaways' debut album, then went on to found the influential independent record label Frontier Records.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2001650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001650", "title": "Department of Finance (New Brunswick)", "text": "Department of Finance (New Brunswick)\n\nThe Department of Finance is a part of the Government of New Brunswick. It is charged with New Brunswick's budgetary and tax policy and headed by the finance minister.\n\nThe department, or a minister responsible for this area, has existed in one form or another since the creation of New Brunswick as a crown colony in 1784. It has been called Provincial Treasurer and Provincial Secretary-Treasurer in the past.\n\n"}
{"id": "2001655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001655", "title": "Panic (MxPx album)", "text": "Panic (MxPx album)\n\nPanic is the seventh studio album by punk rock band MxPx.\n\nIt was released on June 6, 2005 internationally and a day later in the United States. This was a breakthrough album when the single \"Heard That Sound\" proved a minor radio hit. It also featured the Blink-182/+44 singer-bassist Mark Hoppus on \"Wrecking Hotel Rooms.\" Two B-sides (an unreleased track called \"Arrest Me\" and a live/acoustic version of \"Waiting for the World to End\") were released on a SideOneDummy sampler in 2005.\n\n\"Heard That Sound\" was released to radio on May 17, 2005. Between mid June and mid August 2005, the group went on the 2005 edition of Warped Tour. \"Wrecking Hotel Rooms\" was released to radio on July 26, 2005. In January 2006, the band went on a co-headlining UK tour with The Starting Line, with support from The Matches and I Am the Avalanche.\n\n\nAdditional personnel\n\nProduction\n\nAlbum - \"Billboard\" (North America)\n"}
{"id": "2001664", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001664", "title": "Mac OS X Leopard", "text": "Mac OS X Leopard\n\nMac OS X Leopard (version 10.5) is the sixth major release of Mac OS X (now named macOS), Apple's desktop and server operating system for Macintosh computers. Leopard was released on October 26, 2007 as the successor of Mac OS X 10.4 Tiger, and is available in two editions: a desktop version suitable for personal computers, and a server version, Mac OS X Server. It retailed for $129 for the desktop version and $499 for Server. Leopard was superseded by Snow Leopard (version 10.6). Leopard is the final version of macOS to support the PowerPC architecture as Snow Leopard functions solely on Intel based Macs.\n\nAccording to Apple, Leopard contains over 300 changes and enhancements over its predecessor, Mac OS X Tiger, covering core operating system components as well as included applications and developer tools. Leopard introduces a significantly revised desktop, with a redesigned Dock, Stacks, a semitransparent menu bar, and an updated Finder that incorporates the Cover Flow visual navigation interface first seen in iTunes. Other notable features include support for writing 64-bit graphical user interface applications, an automated backup utility called Time Machine, support for Spotlight searches across multiple machines, and the inclusion of Front Row and Photo Booth, which were previously included with only some Mac models.\n\nApple missed Leopard's release time frame as originally announced by Apple's CEO Steve Jobs. When first discussed in June 2005, Jobs had stated that Apple intended to release Leopard at the end of 2006 or early 2007. A year later, this was amended to Spring 2007; however on April 12, 2007, Apple issued a statement that its release would be delayed until October 2007 because of the development of the iPhone.\n\nApple advertised that Mac OS X Leopard has 300+ new features, including:\n\n\n\nNew security features intend to provide better internal resiliency to successful attacks, in addition to preventing attacks from being successful in the first place.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nSecurity features in Leopard have been criticized as weak or ineffective, with the publisher Heise Security documenting that the Leopard installer downgraded firewall protection and exposed services to attack even when the firewall was re-enabled. Several researchers noted that the Library Randomization feature added to Leopard was ineffective compared to mature implementations on other platforms, and that the new \"secure Guest account\" could be abused by Guests to retain access to the system even after the Leopard log out process erased their home directory.\n\nApple states the following basic Leopard system requirements, although, for some specific applications and features (such as iChat backdrops) an Intel processor is required:\n\nLeopard’s retail version was not released in separate versions for each type of processor, but instead consisted of one universal release that could run on both PowerPC and Intel processors. However, the install discs that ship with Intel-based Macs only contain Intel binaries. \n\nProcessor type and speed are checked during installation and installation halted if insufficient; however, Leopard will run on slower G4 processor machines (e.g., a 733 MHz Quicksilver) if the installation is performed on a supported Mac and its hard drive then moved to a slower/unsupported one (the drive may either be an internal mechanism or a Firewire external).\n\nLeopard can run on the later flat-panel iMac G4s, the iMac G5, iMac Intel Core Duo and iMac Intel Core 2 Duo, PowerBook G4, Power Mac G4, Power Mac G5, iBook G4, MacBook, MacBook Pro, MacBook Air, Mac Pro, Mac Mini, Xserve, Xserve G5, Xserve RAID, Macintosh Server G4, and later eMac models. Leopard can run on older hardware as long as they have a G4 upgrade installed running at the 867 MHz or faster, have at least 9 GB free of hard drive space, 512 MB RAM and have a DVD drive. Leopard however will not run on the 900 MHz iBook G3 models even though they exceed the minimum 867 MHz requirement. This is due to the lack of AltiVec support in the G3 line of processors. Leopard can be \"hacked\" (see below) to install on these G3 and pre-867 MHz G4 machines but the system may behave erratically and many of the programs, features, and functions may not work properly or at all. As of mid-2010, some Apple computers have firmware factory installed which will no longer allow installation of Mac OS X Leopard. These computers only allow installation of Mac OS X Snow Leopard. However, some computers (such as the 2011 model of the Mac mini) can have Leopard installed on them without hacking.\n\nSome ways of running Leopard on certain unsupported hardware, primarily PowerPC G4 computers with CPU speeds lower than the official requirement of 867 MHz, have been discovered. A common way is use of the program LeopardAssist, which is a bootloader similar in some respects to XPostFacto (used for installing earlier releases of Mac OS X on unsupported G3 and pre-G3 Macs) that uses the Mac’s Open Firmware to tell Leopard that the machine does have a CPU meeting the 867 MHz minimum requirement that the Installer checks for before installation is allowed to commence, when in reality the CPU is slower. Currently, LeopardAssist only runs on slower G4s and many people have installed Leopard successfully on these older machines.\n\nUsers who have access to supported hardware have installed Leopard on the supported machine then simply moved the hard drive to the unsupported machine. Alternatively, the Leopard Installation DVD was booted on a supported Mac, then installed on an unsupported Mac via Firewire Target Disk Mode. Leopard is only compiled for AltiVec-enabled PowerPC processors (G4 and G5) though, as well as Intel, so both of these methods will only work on Macs with G4 or later CPUs. While some of the earlier beta releases were made to run on some later G3 machines (mostly later 800–900 MHz iBooks), no success with the retail version has been officially reported on G3 Macs except for some later iMacs and \"Pismo\" PowerBook G3s with G4 processor upgrades installed.\n\nFor a number of months after Leopard's release it appeared that the only G3 Macs on which Leopard could be run were those with both an aftermarket G4 processor and an AGP graphics card, as failures with the OS partially booting before crashing were reported on older Macs such as the original tray-loading iMacs and the Beige and Blue & White Power Mac G3 (all with G4 upgrades as Leopard will not even begin to load without one) whereas it would boot fine on newer Macs where the Installer restriction had been circumvented. However, more recently it has been reported that with some more work and use of kernel extensions from XPostFacto, Tiger and beta builds of Leopard, the OS can be made to run on G4-upgraded Macs as old as the Power Macintosh 9500, despite the lack of AGP-based graphics. While Leopard can be run on any Mac with a G4 or later processor, some functionality such as Front Row or Time Machine fails to work without a Quartz Extreme-capable graphics card, which many of the earlier G4s did not include in their factory specification.\n\nSince Apple moved to using Intel processors in their computers, the OSx86 community has developed and now also allows Mac OS X Tiger and later releases to be installed and run successfully on non-Apple x86-based computers, albeit in violation of Apple's licensing agreement for Mac OS X.\n\nThe retail packaging for Leopard is significantly smaller than that of previous versions of Mac OS X (although later copies of Tiger also came in the new smaller box). It also includes a lenticular cover, making the \"X\" appear to float above a purple galaxy, somewhat resembling the default Leopard desktop wallpaper.\n\nAfter Leopard’s release, there were widely reported incidents of new Leopard installs hanging during boot on the blue screen that appears just before the login process starts. Apple attributed these problems to an outdated version of an unsupported add-on extension called Application Enhancer (APE), from Unsanity which had been incompatible with Leopard. Some users were unaware that APE had been silently installed during installation of Logitech mouse drivers. However, only the users who did not have the latest version of APE installed (2.0.3 at that time) were affected. Apple published a knowledge base article on how to solve this problem.\n\nGoogle announced that the Chrome browser will be dropping support for Leopard starting with Chrome 21. By that time Chrome will no longer auto-update, and new Chrome installations are not allowed. Their rationale for removal of support is that Leopard is an \"OS X version also no longer being updated by Apple.\"\n\nFirefox also dropped support for Leopard after it shipped Firefox 16 in October 2012. TenFourFox is a port of Firefox for the PPC architecture, released after Firefox dropped support for Leopard.\n\n"}
{"id": "2001673", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001673", "title": "NWA National Tag Team Championship", "text": "NWA National Tag Team Championship\n\nThe NWA National Tag Team Championship was the major tag team title in the NWA-affiliated Georgia Championship Wrestling from 1980 until 1986. The championship was introduced in November 1980 when Georgia Tag Team Champions The Fabulous Freebirds (Michael Hayes, Buddy Roberts, and Terry Gordy) won a tournament to determine the first champions, defeating Stan Frazier and Robert Fuller in the final. They were introduced as the Georgia and National Tag Team Champions and carried a trophy to the ring representing the National title as they wore belts which represented the Georgia title.\n\nThe National Tag Team Championship continued to be represented by a trophy until Thanksgiving Night in 1981, when the promotion awarded newly made belts (modeled after the old Georgia tag team belts, which the National title replaced) to the winners of its annual turkey night tag team tournament. The father and son duo of Bob and Brad Armstrong defeated Mr. Fuji and Mr. Saito in the final to win the vacant NWA National Tag Team Championship.\n\nWhen World Wrestling Entertainment (then called the World Wrestling Federation)'s Vince McMahon bought Georgia Championship Wrestling, Inc.'s TV timeslot (after GCW's contract with TBS expired without renewal: Black Saturday), the titleholders were Ron Garvin and Jerry Oates. After Oates and Garvin refused to sign with McMahon, McMahon discontinued the title.\n\nA new wrestling promotion -- containing some former Georgia Championship Wrestling personnel -- Championship Wrestling from Georgia reactivated the title, and recognized Garvin & Oates as the titleholders, keeping the Georgia Championship Wrestling lineage unbroken. Jim Crockett Promotions bought the TBS wrestling timeslot from the WWF in 1985 -- and Championship Wrestling from Georgia (including CWG's Saturday morning TBS timeslot, as well) -- kept the title active. The title was written out of JCP storylines when titleholders Ole Anderson & Arn Anderson were stripped of the belts, and JCP replaced them by establishing its 'new' United States Tag Team Championship, and a tournament to crown its 'first' champions.\n\n"}
{"id": "2001686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001686", "title": "Abd al-Muttalib (name)", "text": "Abd al-Muttalib (name)\n\nAbd al-Muttalib (; c.497–578) was the grandfather of Muhammad.\n\nAbd al-Muttalib, Abdul-Muttalib, or variations of this name, may also refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2001690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001690", "title": "Hoe (food)", "text": "Hoe (food)\n\nHoe () refers to several varieties of raw food dishes in Korean cuisine. There is record of it being consumed since the Three Kingdoms of Korea (57 BC - 668 AD), and has been a major Korean dish ever since.\n\nThere are uncooked \"hoe\" () as well as blanched \"sukhoe\" ().\n\n\"Hoe\" (), the raw fish or meat dish, can be divided into \"saengseon-hoe\" (), filleted raw fish, and \"yukhoe\" (), sliced raw meat. \"Saengseon-hoe\" () can be either \"hwareo-hoe\" () made from freshly killed fish, or \"seoneo-hoe\" () made using aged fish. \"Mulhoe\" () is a cold raw fish soup.\n\n\"Sukhoe\" () is a blanched fish, seafood, meat, or vegetable dish. \"Ganghoe\" () is a dish of rolled and tied ribbons made with blanched vegetables such as water dropworts and scallions.\n\n\"Hwareo-hoe\" () is prepared by filleting freshly killed fish, while \"seoneo-hoe\" () is made with aged fish in a similar way as Japanese \"sashimi\": removing the blood and innards and ageing the fish at a certain temperature before filleting. Fish or seafood \"hoe\" is often served with gochujang-based dipping sauces, such as \"cho-gochujang\" (chili paste mixed with vinegar) and \"ssamjang\" (chili paste mixed with soybean paste). Hoe is often eaten wrapped in \"ssam\" (wrap) vegetables, such as lettuce and perilla leaves. After eating \"hoe\" at a restaurant, \"maeun-tang\" (spicy fish stew) made with the bones, head, and the remaining meat of the fish, can be served as an add-on dish.\n\nHistorians assume the tradition of eating \"hoe\" was imported from China to Korea early in the Three Kingdoms period (57 BC-668 AD), facilitated by frequent exchanges between China and Korea on the Korean peninsula.\n\nWith the popularization of Buddhism in Korea, beginning in the middle of the Three Kingdoms period, and running late into the Goryeo Dynasty (918–1392), the consumption of fish and other meat products (including \"hoe\") declined. As the influence of Buddhism waned in the late Goryeo Dynasty period, the consumption of \"hoe\" began to lose its stigma.\n\nDuring the Joseon Dynasty, the state promoted Confucianism, and, as Confucius was known to have enjoyed eating raw meat, \"hoe\" consumption greatly increased.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2001694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001694", "title": "Skinners Pond, Prince Edward Island", "text": "Skinners Pond, Prince Edward Island\n\nSkinners Pond is a rural unincorporated community in Prince County, Prince Edward Island, Canada.\n\nIt is located northwest of the town of Tignish in the township of Lot 1, near the northwestern tip of the province. The primary industries for the area are agriculture and fishing.\n\nSkinners Pond traces its name to a small lake of the same name. Originally the settlement was called Skinner Pond, however it was changed to Skinners Pond in 1966; note that there is no apostrophe in the name.\n\nThe exact population of Skinners Pond is unavailable as its population is amalgamated under the township of Lot 1 (2001 pop. 1,900).\n\nSkinners Pond is probably best known as the boyhood home of Canadian musician Stompin' Tom Connors, who was adopted and raised by a family on a local farm.\n"}
