{"id": "1942339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942339", "title": "Robert Walls", "text": "Robert Walls\n\nRobert Walls (born 21 July 1950) is a former Australian rules footballer who represented and in the Victorian Football League (VFL) during the 1960s and 1970s. In a playing career that spanned three decades Robert played a combined 259 games and kicked a total of 444 goals. Throughout the 1980s and 1990s he continued to coach in the VFL/AFL for a total of 347 games across four different clubs. As a coach, his greatest achievement came in 1987 when he coached Carlton to the 1987 VFL premiership, the same club he won premierships with as player in 1968, 1970 and 1972. After his coaching career ended, Walls became involved in the AFL media as a commentator and columnist. Walls was also a grade 4 teacher at Park Orchards Primary School at the time that he was a coach. \n\nWalls grew up in Brunswick, Victoria and was educated at Coburg High School. He initially supported like his mother, but ended up at because Brunswick at that time part of Carlton's recruiting zone. He was recruited from Coburg Amateurs by the Carlton Football Club and made his senior VFL debut with them as a tall, skinny 16-year-old on 22 April 1967 against Hawthorn at Princes Park. He gave a sign of things to come when he scored a goal with his first kick. Walls would go on to play in three premierships with Carlton – in 1968, 1970 and 1972. He was judged Man of the Match in the 1972 VFL Grand Final when he kicked six goals against arch-rivals Richmond in a masterful display. As the Norm Smith Medal was not awarded until the 1979 VFL Grand Final, Robert was not awarded the medal. He played 218 games and scored 367 goals for Carlton before obtaining a clearance to Fitzroy midway through the 1978 season.\n\nWalls made his Fitzroy debut in round 9 of the 1978 season, where he kicked 2 goals in a losing effort against Footscray. He went on to play 14 games in his first season at Fitzroy, kicking 24 goals. Walls' stint with the club was marred by a combination of poor form and injury issues. In Round 17 of the 1980 season against at Windy Hill, Walls injured his knee in the third quarter and had to be carried off. He announced his retirement shortly after the incident having played 41 games and kicked 77 goals for , taking his overall VFL tally to 259 games and 444 goals.\n\nAfter he retired as a player, Walls immediately took over as coach of Fitzroy. With a major clean-out of older players who were clearly \"past it\" in the club's disappointing 1980 season, Walls lifted the Lions to their best era since winning a premiership in 1944. Robert would coach Fitzroy Football Club for 115 games (60 wins – 54 losses – 1 draw).\n\nThey improved from last in 1980 to fifth at the end of the home-and-away season in 1981, securing their finals berth with an upset win over Collingwood and then beating Essendon in the Elimination Final before failing by the narrowest of margins in the First Semi against the Magpies. 1982 was relatively disappointing due to a poor start, but with players like Gary Pert and Paul Roos from the club's recruiting zones and South Australian recruit Matt Rendell growing into stars, the Lions were back as a force at the end of the season. 1983 saw the Lions emerge after five rounds as favourites for the premiership and maintain that favouritism with a sensational win in a top-of-the-table clash with North by 150 points with Rendell kicking eight goals besides destroying Gary Dempsey in the ruck. However, inevitable overconfidence saw the Lions lose form and finish fourth after losing two hard-fought finals.\n\n1984, with injuries plaguing the club and its lack of depth apparent, was initially disappointing but a remarkable recovery saw them enter the five after the final round only to be crushed by Collingwood. In 1985, the Lions' financial crisis emerged to threaten their future and this, along with more injuries, caused them to drop to ninth with only seven wins and two losses to last-placed St Kilda. After this, Walls moved to his former club Carlton in a swap with David Parkin.\n\nThanks in part to an influx of interstate recruits including South Australians Stephen Kernahan, Craig Bradley and Peter Motley, Walls had immediate success, taking the side to a Grand Final in 1986 and a premiership in 1987. Robert would coach Carlton Football Club for four seasons. During this tenure Robert would complete the third achievement in Carlton Football Club folklore. Winning the 1987 premiership, Robert had become a premiership player (1968,1970 and 1972), and club captain (1977–1978) and premiership coach (1987).\n\nThe Blues made the finals again in 1988 but by mid-1989 they were struggling and Walls was sacked after the team lost a home match to the lowly Brisbane Bears. Robert ended his tenure of coach of Carlton Football Club with 84 games (55 wins – 29 losses – 0 draws).\n\nWalls coached the Brisbane Bears from 1991–1995. It took until the early 2000s for Robert's style of coaching to surface as a method that had become outdated, and criticised in the football and wider community. Robert would coach Brisbane Bears for 109 games (30 wins – 78 losses – 1 draw).\n\nIt was revealed in the video \"Passion To Play\" that in Walls first year as Bears coach in 1991, as disciplinary action Walls authorised his players to don boxing gloves and beat 21-year-old teammate Shane Strempel repetitively in the head until he was severely bashed and bloodied after which Strempel quit playing football. Walls' coaching style was criticised about the incident by Kevin Sheedy who has several times questioned his credibility as a football coach.\n\nIn his last season, 1995, he had been told after Round 15 that with 4 wins and 11 losses for the season, he would not be re-appointed for 1996. But a major turning point in the season for the Bears soon came. In Round 16, against Hawthorn, Brisbane trailed by 45 points at 3-quarter time and ended up winning by 7, which remains a VFL/AFL record for the biggest 3-quarter time deficit turned into a win.\n\nFrom there, the Bears continued their run and won 6 of their next 7 games. They found themselves in eighth position, and qualifying for the finals, after being second-last just 7 weeks earlier. They faced Carlton, the top ranked side in week one of the finals, and went down by just 13 points, a monumental achievement considering Carlton won the next two weeks by more than 10 goals to claim the premiership. Despite this turnaround, a change of heart was not considered, and Walls moved to the following year to coach.\n\nThe Richmond Football Club appointed Walls as senior coach for the 1996 season. This coaching role was Robert's last coaching role until one off game in 1999. He was sacked after a 137-point defeat by the eventual premiers, the Adelaide Crows, in Round 17, 1997. Not completing two full seasons of coaching Richmond Football Club, his record at the club stands as 39 games ( 17 wins – 22 losses – 0 draws).\n\nRobert returned for one last coaching role, in 1999 he coached Victoria in the state's last ever State Representative game. AFL administrators abandoned state of origin of football as the competition had become a national game with five of the main states fielding teams in the competition, and the risk of injury to players in state representative games became too risky for clubs to warrant their support as well.\n\nAt the end of his coaching career, Walls was immediately in demand as a football commentator. He became a columnist for \"The Age\" in Melbourne (a role he continues to fill), and joined the Seven Network providing special comments during AFL matches. Later he replaced Malcolm Blight on the football discussion show \"Talking Footy\".\n\nWhen Seven lost the broadcast rights for AFL matches at the end of 2001, Walls was recruited by both Network Ten and the now defunct AFL-dedicated Fox Footy pay television channel. He provided special comments during match broadcasts, and was a member of Fox Footy's On the Couch with Gerard Healy and Mike Sheahan from 2002 until 2008. He then switched to the One HD Monday night program with Stephen Quartermain to co-host the new football discussion show One Week at a Time. He also commentated for radio station 3AW.\n\nIn 2005, Walls was involved in a feud with Sydney Swans coach Paul Roos, after Walls stated that \"the Swans can't possibly win the AFL Premiership with Paul Roos' style of coaching\". Walls was on Network Ten's commentary team when the Swans suffered a 43-point defeat against at Marvel Stadium, after which they were particularly scathing and critical of Sydney's overall performance in that match. This proved to be the turning point in Sydney's season, and ultimately they went on to win the flag (reversing a loss to the Saints in the preliminary final en route) after which Roos refused to accept Walls' apology.\n\nAlthough no longer a television commentator, Walls continued as the \"Special Comments Man\" for Sports radio station SEN as well as appearing on its \"Crunch Time\" Saturday AFL preview program alongside Anthony Hudson, Dermott Brereton and Herald Sun journalist Mark Robinson for two years before retiring. Between 1999 and 2011 he was a commentator for rival radio station 3AW. He has now come out of retirement, providing special comments on matches for Crocmedia.\n\nIn 2018, he infamously tipped West Coast to win the \"wooden spoon\", despite still having many quality players. The Eagles would then go on to be 2nd on the ladder and managed to win the Grand Final.\n\nIn 2006, Walls was inducted into the Australian Football Hall of Fame. His wife Erin, suffering from lung cancer, attended the dinner in one of her last public appearances before passing away on 9 July 2006. With Erin, Walls had three children: Rebecca, Daniel and David. David went on to represent in the South Australian National Football League (SANFL), but his career was affected by three knee reconstructions.\n\nWalls was inducted into the Carlton Football Club Hall of Fame in 1990, and was elevated to Legend status in 2011.\n\n"}
{"id": "1942340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942340", "title": "Plateau Penutian languages", "text": "Plateau Penutian languages\n\nPlateau Penutian (also Shahapwailutan, Lepitan) is a family of languages spoken in northern California, reaching through central-western Oregon to northern Washington and central-northern Idaho.\n\nPlateau Penutian consists of four languages:\n\nPlateau Penutian as originally proposed was one branch of the hypothetical Penutian phylum as proposed by Edward Sapir. The original proposal also included Cayuse (which was grouped with Molala into a Waiilatpuan branch); however, this language has little documentation and that which is documented is inadequately recorded. Thus, the status of Cayuse within Penutian (or any other genealogical relation for that matter) may very well forever remain unclassified.\n\nThe Sahaptian grouping of Sahaptin and Nez Percé has long been uncontroversial. Several linguists have published mounting evidence in support of a connection between Klamath (a.k.a. Klamath-Modoc) and Sahaptian. Howard Berman provides rather convincing evidence to include Molala within Plateau Penutian. Recent appraisals of the Penutian hypothesis find Plateau Penutian to be \"well supported\" by specialists (DeLancey & Golla (1997: 181); Campbell 1997), with DeLancey & Golla (1997: 180) cautiously stating \"while all subgroupings at this stage of Penutian research must be considered provisional, several linkages show considerable promise\" (Campbell 1997 likewise mentions similar caveats). Other researchers have pointed out promising similarities between Plateau Penutian and the Maiduan family, although this proposal is still not completely demonstrated. A connection with Uto-Aztecan has also been suggested (Rude 2000).\n\n"}
{"id": "1942341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942341", "title": "EMD F59PH", "text": "EMD F59PH\n\nThe EMD F59PH is a four-axle B-B diesel-electric locomotive built by General Motors Electro-Motive Division in two variants from 1988 to 2001. The original F59PH was designed in consultation with GO Transit for commuter operation in Toronto. The design was successful and became the backbone of GO Transit's fleet for two decades. Another major operator is Southern California's Metrolink, which launched with F59PHs in 1992. Production of the F59PH ended in 1994, with 73 locomotives built.\n\nThe F59PHI was designed for Amtrak California intercity service and began production in 1994. It is distinguished from the F59PH by its streamlined cab. A total of 83 F59PHIs were built between 1994–2001, primarily for commuter operators.\n\nThe F59PH was the first in the \"F59\" series of locomotives. Between May 1988 and May 1994, 73 locomotives were built for two commuter transit railroads: GO Transit of Toronto and Metrolink of Los Angeles. \n\nThe locomotives were equipped with a turbocharged EMD 12-710G3A, a 12-cylinder, two-stroke Diesel engine (prime mover), front and rear platforms, a full-width cab with a three-piece windshield. Earlier EMD cowl-type locomotives had used a two-piece windshield, while the Canadian comfort cab used a four-piece design.\n\nMany F59PH locomotives are still in use today, mainly on commuter railroads. GO Transit began retiring its F59PH locomotives in 2008 in favor of newer MPI MPXpress locomotives. Only eight units have been rebuilt and remain in service.\n\nMetrolink has rebuilt seven locomotives with an upgraded cooling system, an upgraded 12-710G3Eco Tier 2 engine, and an E-bell, and renaming them F59PHR. Even as Metrolink purchases new locomotives, it intends to keep its upgraded F59PHR units as yard switchers in maintenance facilities. NCDOT 1859 was also rebuilt to the same F59PHR standard in 2018.\n\nThe EMD F59PHI is a common diesel-electric locomotive on passenger trains in North America, built originally by General Motors Electro-Motive Division (EMD), now built by the successor company, Electro-Motive Diesel, which is owned by Progress Rail Services, itself a division of Caterpillar.\n\nFirst built in 1994, the locomotive is a B-B diesel-electric locomotive intended for service on North American mainlines. This locomotive is equipped with a turbocharged EMD 12-710G3C-EC, a 12-cylinder, 2 stroke diesel engine (prime mover). The main (traction) alternator converts mechanical energy from the prime mover into electrical energy that is distributed through a high voltage cabinet to direct current traction motors. Each of the four traction motors is directly geared to a pair of driving wheels. The gear ratio of the traction motors (model D87BTR) to wheel axle determines the maximum operating speed of the locomotive; a standard F59PHI has a gear ratio of 56:21 which provides a top speed of .\n\nThe F59PHI has a fully enclosed carbody which provides protected walkways for easy access to the engine room and trailing units. This arrangement allows routine maintenance while the locomotive is in service. The noteworthy aspect of this locomotive's exterior is the use of composites to present a streamlined appearance.\n\nTo supply electrical power for passenger service, the F59PHI is equipped with a secondary electrical generator referred to as the Head End Power (HEP) unit. The head-end generator generates AC power at 480 V, 60 Hz AC, and can be rated between to provide power to the passenger carriages for lighting, electric heating, and air conditioning. The head-end generator is powered by a second diesel engine dedicated to it. With this arrangement, the prime mover is not burdened by head-end power generation and consequently is used solely for supplying tractive effort.\n\nWhen it debuted for Caltrans in late 1994, the F59PHI was the first locomotive in the United States which met California's stringent emission standards.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1942345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942345", "title": "Howe Island", "text": "Howe Island\n\nHowe Island is an island located in the St. Lawrence River east of Kingston in Frontenac County, Ontario, Canada. It is part of the Thousand Islands chain. Together with Wolfe Island and Simcoe Island, Howe Island is part of the township of Frontenac Islands, created through municipal amalgamation in 1998.\n\nHowe Island measures 13 km (8 mi) long and 5 km (3 mi) wide and has an area of 31 km² (12 mi²). The main channel of the St. Lawrence River passes to the south of the island, while the Bateau Channel passes on the north between the Canadian mainland and the island.\n\nHowe Island was originally named \"Ka-ou-enesegoan\" by local Iroquois and later \"Isle Cauchois\" after its first French owner Jacques Cauchois who took possession in 1685. In a proclamation by the Lieutenant Governor of Upper Canada John Graves Simcoe on 16 July 1792, the island was renamed from isle Cauchois to Howe island.; it was named for William Howe, 5th Viscount Howe, a British officer who served under General James Wolfe at the Battle of the Plains of Abraham during the Seven Years' War, and first appeared on a map in 1818 following a survey by Captain (later Vice Admiral) William Fitzwilliam Owen of the Royal Navy. There is some evidence (received by oral tradition) that it was at one time also called St. John's. There is no evidence of any permanent habitation until 1810 by a man named William Casey. In the following four decades successive waves of settlers brought many of the island's long standing families who still live or own land there.\n\nHowe Island has a shared community of farming, as well as \"cottagers\". In recent years the number of full-time residents has significantly increased. The Island also has a small Roman Catholic Church- St. Philomena's.\n\nThe population of Howe Island in 2011 was 602, although this figure expands in the summer months when recreational properties are occupied.\n\nTwo ferry services connect the island to the mainland: a County-operated ferry on the west from the community of Pitts Ferry, part of Kingston; and the Township-operated \"Foot Ferry\" on the east from Gananoque.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1942349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942349", "title": "Dan Farmer", "text": "Dan Farmer\n\nDan Farmer (born April 5, 1962) is an American computer security researcher and programmer who was a pioneer in the development of vulnerability scanners for Unix operating systems and computer networks.\n\nFarmer developed his first software suite while he was a computer science student at Purdue University in 1989. Gene Spafford, one of his professors, helped him to start the project. The software, called the Computer Oracle and Password System (COPS), comprises several small, specialized vulnerability scanners designed to identify security weaknesses in one part of a Unix operating system.\n\nIn 1995, Farmer and Wietse Venema (a Dutch programmer and physicist) developed a second vulnerability scanner called the Security Administrator Tool for Analyzing Networks (SATAN). Due to a misunderstanding of SATAN's capabilities, when it was first published, some network administrators and law enforcement personnel believed that hackers would use it to identify and break into vulnerable computers. Consequently, SGI terminated Farmer's employment. However, contrary to popular opinion, SATAN did not function as an automatic hacking program that undermined network security. Rather, it operated as an audit on network security that identified vulnerabilities and made suggestions to help prevent them. No information about how security vulnerabilities could be exploited was provided by the tool. Within a few years, the use of vulnerability scanners such as SATAN became an accepted method for auditing computer and network security.\n\nHe co-developed the Titan vulnerability scanner with Brad Powell and Matt Archibald, which they presented at the Large Installation System Administration Conference (LISA) in 1998.\n\nFarmer and Venema collaborated again to develop a computer forensics suite called The Coroner's Toolkit, and later coauthored \"Forensic Discovery\" (2005), a book about computer forensics.\n\nFarmer co-founded Elemental Security with Dayne Myers, and served as the corporation's chief technical officer.\n\n"}
{"id": "1942356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942356", "title": "Eric Wedge", "text": "Eric Wedge\n\nEric Michael Wedge (born January 27, 1968) is an American baseball coach and manager and former catcher, who is the head baseball coach at Wichita State University. \n\nAs a player, Wedge attended Northrop High School in Fort Wayne and played on the school's state champion baseball team in 1983. He went on to attend Wichita State, and played on the Shockers team that won the 1989 College World Series. From 1989–1997 he played in the minor league systems of the Boston Red Sox, Colorado Rockies, Detroit Tigers, and Philadelphia Phillies, and played in 39 major league games with the Red Sox and Rockies between 1991 and 1994.\n\nWedge managed in the Cleveland Indians minor league system from 1998–2002 before being named manager of the Indians for the 2003 season. He led the Indians to a postseason berth in 2007, and won the American League Manager of the Year Award that year. He managed the Indians through the 2009 season. He then managed the Seattle Mariners from 2011 to 2013, and then worked as player development advisor for the Toronto Blue Jays from 2016 to 2019.\n\nWedge played catcher and Center for Wichita State University from 1987–1989, leading the school to a 68–16 record and the College World Series championship in 1989. He hit .380 for the Shockers that year, led the NCAA in walks and total bases and finished second in runs, RBI, and home runs. Wedge's performance earned him first-team All-America honors,\nthe Missouri Valley Conference Player of the Year award\nand he was runner-up to Ben McDonald for the Rotary Smith Award for College Baseball Player of the Year.\n\nIn 1988, he played collegiate summer baseball in the Cape Cod Baseball League (CCBL) for the Yarmouth-Dennis Red Sox, where he was named to the all-league team. In 2011, he was inducted into the CCBL Hall of Fame.\n\nThe Boston Red Sox selected Wedge in the third round of the 1989 Major League Baseball draft. While in the Red Sox major league system, he played for the Elmira Pioneers (1989), New Britain Red Sox (1989–1991), Winter Haven Red Sox (1991) and Pawtucket Red Sox (1991–1992, 1994–1995). On October 5, 1991, he made his major league debut in his only appearance of the season for Boston with a pinch hit single off Chris George of the Milwaukee Brewers.\nIn 1992, he appeared in 27 games for Boston (20 as a designated hitter, 5 as a catcher and 2 as a pinch hitter), hitting .250.\n\nIn November 1992, the Colorado Rockies selected Wedge from the Red Sox in the 1992 Major League Baseball expansion draft. He played for the Central Valley Rockies and Colorado Springs Sky Sox in 1993 and was a September call-up for Colorado that season, appearing in 9 games (8 as a pinch hitter and 1 as a catcher) and hitting .182 with 1 RBI.\n\nThe Rockies released Wedge at the end of spring training in 1994 and he was re-signed by the Red Sox on May 2.\nHe split catching duties with Scott Hatteberg for Pawtucket that season and made his final big league appearances with Boston in July, going 0 for 6 in two games as a designated hitter. He returned to Pawtucket for the 1995 season and again split catching duties with Hatteberg.\n\nWedge played his final two seasons with the Toledo Mud Hens in the Detroit Tigers organization and the Scranton/Wilkes-Barre Red Barons in the Philadelphia Phillies organization in 1996 and 1997, respectively.\n\nWedge made his managerial debut in 1998 with the Columbus RedStixx of the South Atlantic League, leading the Cleveland single-A affiliate to an overall record of 59–81. In 1999, he was the manager of Cleveland's Carolina League affiliate in Kinston. His team took first place during the first half of the season with a 37–32 record and second place during the second half with a 42–26 record. After the season, he was named the Carolina League Manager of the Year.\n\nThe Indians promoted Wedge to manager of the double-A Akron Aeros in 2000. The Aeros finished the season 75–68, just missing the Eastern League post-season after losing a one-game playoff with Harrisburg. In 2001, he continued his ascent through the Indians' managerial ranks, leading their triple-A affiliate, Buffalo Bisons, to a 91–51 first-place finish in the International League's North Division and a berth in the post-season where they lost to Scranton-Wilkes Barre in the semi-finals. Wedge again earned post-season honors when he was named the International League Manager of the Year and \"Baseball America's\" Triple A Manager of the Year. He returned at the helm of the Bisons in 2002 and again led them to the post-season, finishing 87–57 and second in the North Division. This time, they defeated Scranton in the semi-finals but were swept by the Durham Bulls in the finals. Wedge was honored with his third post-season award when \"The Sporting News\" named him Minor League Manager of the Year.\n\nOn October 29, 2002, Wedge was named the 39th manager of the Cleveland Indians. Over his first three years as manager, the Indians improved steadily from fourth place in the American League Central Division with a 68–94 record in 2003, to 80–82 and third place in 2004 and to 93–69 and second place in 2005. The 93 wins in 2005 were the eighth most in the more than hundred-year history of the franchise and the team narrowly missed qualifying for the playoffs for the first time since 2001 when they were eliminated on the last day of the season. In the American League Manager of the Year balloting for 2005, Wedge finished as runner-up to Ozzie Guillén.\n\nThe 2006 season was a disappointing one for Wedge and the Indians. Entering the season, they were expected to compete for the division title, but got off to a poor start and were essentially out of the race by mid-season, trailing the division-leading Detroit Tigers at the All-Star break by 18½ games. They finished the season in fourth place with a 78–84 record, 18 games behind the Central Division champion, Minnesota Twins.\n\nWedge and the Indians had more success in the 2007 season going 96–66 and winning the Central Division Title for the first time since 2001. Wedge then led the Indians to beat the Yankees in four games to win the ALDS, and moved on to play the Boston Red Sox in the ALCS, where they lost in 7 games. Wedge received The Sporting News Manager of the Year Award and the MLB Manager of the Year Award for the American League in 2007. The following year the Indians would go 81-81, finishing third in the Central. The club, which was just four wins shy from winning 100 games in 2007, fell to the other end of the spectrum in 2009, finishing three losses from the century mark at 65-97 and further down in the Central standings at fourth.\n\nOn September 30, 2009, the Cleveland Indians announced that Wedge would not be retained as manager after the season ended.\n\nOn October 18, 2010, Wedge was named the Mariners manager, and agreed to a three-year contract. In 2011, the team finished 67–95, in last place in the AL West Division, 29 games out of first place. The following year he led the team to a 75—87 finish, another last place finish. Wedge suffered a stroke in July 2013 and missed 28 games. On September 27, 2013, Wedge announced he would not return as the Mariners manager for the 2014 season, declining their contract offer for a one–year contract extension.\n\nOn February 6, 2016, Wedge was hired as a player development advisor by the Toronto Blue Jays. He interviewed for the vacant New York Yankees managerial position in November 2017.\n\nOn May 29, 2019, Wedge was named head baseball coach of the Wichita State Shockers.\n\nWedge joined Baseball Tonight on ESPN as a Studio Analyst for the 2014 - 2015 season alongside Ozzie Guillen and Dallas Braden. Wedge's analysis was featured in a segment called \"Cutting The Wedge\".\n\nWedge and his wife, Kate, donate their time to a variety of charities, including a baseball camp organized by World Baseball Academy and sponsored by Automotive Color &\nSupply Corp.\nJanuary 2018 marked his fourteenth year hosting the camp at The ASH Centre in Fort Wayne, IN. Also in January 2007, he was inducted into the Indiana High School Baseball Hall of Fame\nand in February 2007, he was inducted into the Kinston Professional Baseball Hall of Fame.\n\nWedge and Kate have a daughter and a son and reside year-round in Lancaster, New York .\n\n"}
{"id": "1942361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942361", "title": "Mejoranera", "text": "Mejoranera\n\nThe mejoranera or mejorana is a folkloric chordophone from Panama. It is carved from one block of wood (usually cedar) or from dry fibers of Bejuco, and is shaped like a small guitar. It has five nylon, horse hair, or gut strings. The mejoranera is tuned in either an e'-b-a-a'-d' (by 2) or an e'-b-g-g'-d' (by 6) sequence A mejoranera player is called a \"mejoranero\" or \"mejoranera\" depending if it is a male or female player. Typically this instrument is played by men.\nThe first Spanish conquistadors arrived on the isthmus of Panama in the early part of the sixteenth century, in which sailors brought a style of tap dance known to them as \"zapateo\", now known as \"mejorana\" dance, which includes this instrument. The mejoranera is similar to a guitar but slightly smaller and with a shorter neck; this is due to the relation of the baroque guitar that was brought over from Europe.\nIt first appeared at the town of La Mesa in Veraguas, but is now popular in all central provinces, Veraguas, Herrera and Los Santos, and the most representative musical instrument of this country.\n\nThe mejoranera is traditionally carved out of a single block of wood. Although nowadays there are some mejoraneras with bent sides like a guitar, most are still made in this traditional way. The measurements are: 13.5 - 12 - 22 cm. From the top, 40 cm of the Fund, 8 cm height, 22 cm Mango, 10 cm Pala, and 62 cm total length.\n\nThe mejoranera is a bit smaller than a guitar, the fretboard and neck or shorter. It uses five strings, which initially were: dry reed fibers, horsehair, later today guts and nylon. The wood used to build the mejoranera is cedar. It is used to accompany singers' and troubadours' vernacular.\n\nThe mejoranera is used in many of the folkloric music in Panama, but most importantly within songs that are themselves called \"mejoranas\". These mejoranas are romantic ballads that are sung exclusively by men in the community in either the privacy of their own home or at public celebrations. For this same reason, there is a heavy importance in the mejoranera, for they are the primary instrument of choice for these men who sing mejoranas. There is an important annual folk festival in Panama called the Festival of Mejorana that takes place in Guarare, the center of folkloric Panamanian culture.\n"}
{"id": "1942366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942366", "title": "Air quality index", "text": "Air quality index\n\nAn air quality index (AQI) is used by government agencies to communicate to the public how polluted the air currently is or how polluted it is forecast to become. Public health risks increase as the AQI rises. Different countries have their own air quality indices, corresponding to different national air quality standards. Some of these are the Air Quality Health Index (Canada), the Air Pollution Index (Malaysia), and the Pollutant Standards Index (Singapore).\n\nComputation of the AQI requires an air pollutant concentration over a specified averaging period, obtained from an air monitor or model. Taken together, concentration and time represent the dose of the air pollutant. Health effects corresponding to a given dose are established by epidemiological research. Air pollutants vary in potency, and the function used to convert from air pollutant concentration to AQI varies by pollutant. Its air quality index values are typically grouped into ranges. Each range is assigned a descriptor, a color code, and a standardized public health advisory.\n\nThe AQI can increase due to an increase of air emissions (for example, during rush hour traffic or when there is an upwind forest fire) or from a lack of dilution of air pollutants. Stagnant air, often caused by an anticyclone, temperature inversion, or low wind speeds lets air pollution remain in a local area, leading to high concentrations of pollutants, chemical reactions between air contaminants and hazy conditions. \n\nOn a day when the AQI is predicted to be elevated due to fine particle pollution, an agency or public health organization might:\n\nDuring a period of very poor air quality, such as an air pollution episode, when the AQI indicates that acute exposure may cause significant harm to the public health, agencies may invoke emergency plans that allow them to order major emitters (such as coal burning industries) to curtail emissions until the hazardous conditions abate.\n\nMost air contaminants do not have an associated AQI. Many countries monitor ground-level ozone, particulates, sulfur dioxide, carbon monoxide and nitrogen dioxide, and calculate air quality indices for these pollutants.\n\nThe definition of the AQI in a particular nation reflects the discourse surrounding the development of national air quality standards in that nation. A website allowing government agencies anywhere in the world to submit their real-time air monitoring data for display using a common definition of the air quality index has recently become available.\n\nAir quality in Canada has been reported for many years with provincial Air Quality Indices (AQIs). Significantly, AQI values reflect air quality management objectives, which are based on the lowest achievable emissions rate, rather than exclusive concern for human health. The Air Quality Health Index or (AQHI) is a scale designed to help understand the impact of air quality on health. \nIt is a health protection tool used to make decisions to reduce short-term exposure to air pollution by adjusting activity levels during increased levels of air pollution. The Air Quality Health Index also provides advice on how to improve air quality by proposing behavioural change to reduce the environmental footprint. This index pays particular attention to people who are sensitive to air pollution. It provides them with advice on how to protect their health during air quality levels associated with low, moderate, high and very high health risks.\n\nThe Air Quality Health Index provides a number from 1 to 10+ to indicate the level of health risk associated with local air quality. On occasion, when the amount of air pollution is abnormally high, the number may exceed 10. The AQHI provides a local air quality current value as well as a local air quality maximums forecast for today, tonight, and tomorrow, and provides associated health advice.\n\nOn December 30, 2013, Hong Kong replaced the Air Pollution Index with a new index called the \"Air Quality Health Index\". This index, reported by the Environmental Protection Department, is measured on a scale of 1 to 10+ and considers four air pollutants: ozone; nitrogen dioxide; sulphur dioxide and particulate matter (including PM10 and PM2.5). For any given hour the AQHI is calculated from the sum of the percentage excess risk of daily hospital admissions attributable to the 3-hour moving average concentrations of these four pollutants. The AQHIs are grouped into five AQHI health risk categories with health advice provided:\n\nEach of the health risk categories has advice associated with it. At the \"low\" and \"moderate\" levels the public are advised that they can continue normal activities. For the \"high\" category, children, the elderly and people with heart or respiratory illnesses are advised to reduce outdoor physical exertion. Above this (\"very high\" or \"serious\"), the general public are likewise advised to reduce or avoid outdoor physical exertion.\n\nChina's Ministry of Environmental Protection (MEP) is responsible for measuring the level of air pollution in China. As of January 1, 2013, MEP monitors daily pollution level in 163 of its major cities. The AQI level is based on the level of six atmospheric pollutants, namely sulfur dioxide (SO), nitrogen dioxide (NO), suspended particulates smaller than 10 μm in aerodynamic diameter (PM), suspended particulates smaller than 2.5 μm in aerodynamic diameter (PM)，carbon monoxide (CO), and ozone (O) measured at the monitoring stations throughout each city.\n\nAQI Mechanics\nAn individual score (Individual Air Quality Index, IAQI) is assigned to each pollutant and the final AQI is \"the highest\" of these six scores. The final AQI value can be calculated either per hour or per 24 hours. The concentrations of pollutants can be measured quite differently. If the AQI value is calculated hourly, then SO, NO, CO concentrations are measured as average per 24h, O concentration is measured as average per hour and the moving average per 8h, PM and PM concentrations are measured as average per hour and per 24h. If the AQI value is calculated per 24h, then SO, NO, CO, PM and PM concentrations are measured as average per 24h, while O concentration is measured as the maximum 1h average and the maximum 24h moving average. The IAQI of each pollutant is calculated according to a formula published by the MEP.\n\nThe score for each pollutant is non-linear, as is the final AQI score. Thus an AQI of 300 does not mean twice the pollution of AQI at 150, nor does it mean the air is twice as harmful. The concentration of a pollutant when its IAQI is 100 does not equal twice its concentration when its IAQI is 50, nor does it mean the pollutant is twice as harmful. While an AQI of 50 from day 1 to 182 and AQI of 100 from day 183 to 365 does provide an annual average of 75, it does \"not\" mean the pollution is acceptable even if the benchmark of 100 is deemed safe. Because the benchmark is a 24-hour target, and the annual average must match the annual target, it is entirely possible to have safe air every day of the year but still fail the annual pollution benchmark.\n\nAQI and Health Implications (HJ 633—2012)\nThe National Air Quality Index (AQI) was launched in New Delhi on September 17, 2014, under the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan.\n\nThe Central Pollution Control Board along with State Pollution Control Boards has been operating National Air Monitoring Program (NAMP) covering 240 cities of the country having more than 342 monitoring stations. An Expert Group comprising medical professionals, air quality experts, academia, advocacy groups, and SPCBs was constituted and a technical study was awarded to IIT Kanpur. IIT Kanpur and the Expert Group recommended an AQI scheme in 2014. While the earlier measuring index was limited to three indicators, the new index measures eight parameters. The continuous monitoring systems that provide data on near real-time basis are installed in New Delhi, Mumbai, Pune and Ahmedabad.\n\nThere are six AQI categories, namely Good, Satisfactory, Moderately polluted, Poor, Very Poor, and Severe. The proposed AQI will consider eight pollutants (PM, PM, NO, SO, CO, O, NH, and Pb) for which short-term (up to 24-hourly averaging period) National Ambient Air Quality Standards are prescribed. Based on the measured ambient concentrations, corresponding standards and likely health impact, a sub-index is calculated for each of these pollutants. The worst sub-index reflects overall AQI. Likely health impacts for different AQI categories and pollutants have also been suggested, with primary inputs from the medical experts in the group. The AQI values and corresponding ambient concentrations (health breakpoints) as well as associated likely health impacts for the identified eight pollutants are as follows:\n\nThe air quality in Mexico City is reported in IMECAs. The IMECA is calculated using the measurements of average times of the chemicals ozone (O), sulphur dioxide (SO), nitrogen dioxide (NO), carbon monoxide (CO), particles smaller than 2.5 micrometers (PM), and particles smaller than 10 micrometers (PM).\n\nSingapore uses the Pollutant Standards Index to report on its air quality, with details of the calculation similar but not identical to those used in Malaysia and Hong Kong.\nThe PSI chart below is grouped by index values and descriptors, according to the National Environment Agency.\n\nThe Ministry of Environment of South Korea uses the Comprehensive Air-quality Index (CAI) to describe the ambient air quality based on the health risks of air pollution. The index aims to help the public easily understand the air quality and protect people's health. The CAI is on a scale from 0 to 500, which is divided into six categories. The higher the CAI value, the greater the level of air pollution.\nOf values of the five air pollutants, the highest is the CAI value. The index also has associated health effects and a colour representation of the categories as shown below.\n\nThe N Seoul Tower on Namsan Mountain in central Seoul, South Korea, is illuminated in blue, from sunset to 23:00 and 22:00 in winter, on days where the air quality in Seoul is 45 or less. During the spring of 2012, the Tower was lit up for 52 days, which is four days more than in 2011.\n\nThe most commonly used air quality index in the UK is the \"Daily Air Quality Index\" recommended by the Committee on Medical Effects of Air Pollutants (COMEAP). This index has ten points, which are further grouped into four bands: low, moderate, high and very high. Each of the bands comes with advice for at-risk groups and the general population.\n\nThe index is based on the concentrations of five pollutants. The index is calculated from the concentrations of the following pollutants: Ozone, Nitrogen Dioxide, Sulphur Dioxide, PM2.5 (particles with an aerodynamic diameter less than 2.5 μm) and PM10. The breakpoints between index values are defined for each pollutant separately and the overall index is defined as the maximum value of the index. Different averaging periods are used for different pollutants.\n\nThe \"Common Air Quality Index\" (CAQI) is an air quality index used in Europe since 2006. In November 2017, the European Environment Agency announced the \"European Air Quality Index\" (EAQI) and started encouraging its use on websites and for other ways of informing the public about air quality.\n\n, the EU-supported project \"CiteairII\" argued that the CAQI had been evaluated on a \"large set\" of data, and described the CAQI's motivation and definition. \"CiteairII\" stated that having an air quality index that would be easy to present to the general public was a major motivation, leaving aside the more complex question of a health-based index, which would require, for example, effects of combined levels of different pollutants. The main aim of the CAQI was to have an index that would encourage wide comparison across the EU, without replacing local indices. \"CiteairII\" stated that the \"main goal of the CAQI is not to warn people for possible adverse health effects of poor air quality but to attract their attention to urban air pollution and its main source (traffic) and help them decrease their exposure.\"\n\nThe CAQI is a number on a scale from 1 to 100, where a low value means good air quality and a high value means bad air quality. The index is defined in both hourly and daily versions, and separately near roads (a \"roadside\" or \"traffic\" index) or away from roads (a \"background\" index). , the CAQI had two mandatory components for the roadside index, NO and PM, and three mandatory components for the background index, NO, PM and O. It also included optional pollutants PM, CO and SO. A \"sub-index\" is calculated for each of the mandatory (and optional if available) components. The CAQI is defined as the sub-index that represents the worst quality among those components.\n\nSome of the key pollutant concentrations in μg/m for the hourly background index, the corresponding sub-indices, and five CAQI ranges and verbal descriptions are as follows.\nFrequently updated CAQI values and maps are shown on the \"www.airqualitynow.eu\" and other websites. A separate \"Year Average Common Air Quality Index\" (YACAQI) is also defined, in which different pollutant sub-indices are separately normalised to a value typically near unity. For example, the yearly averages of NO, PM and PM are divided by 40 μg/m^3, 40 μg/m^3 and 20 μg/m^3, respectively. The overall background or traffic YACAQI for a city is the arithmetic mean of a defined subset of these sub-indices.\n\nThe United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has developed an Air Quality Index that is used to report air quality. This AQI is divided into six categories indicating increasing levels of health concern. An AQI value over 300 represents hazardous air quality and below 50 the air quality is good.\nThe AQI is based on the five \"criteria\" pollutants regulated under the Clean Air Act: ground-level ozone, particulate matter, carbon monoxide, sulfur dioxide, and nitrogen dioxide. The EPA has established National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS) for each of these pollutants in order to protect public health. An AQI value of 100 generally corresponds to the level of the NAAQS for the pollutant. The Clean Air Act (USA) (1990) requires EPA to review its National Ambient Air Quality Standards every five years to reflect evolving health effects information. The Air Quality Index is adjusted periodically to reflect these changes.\n\nThe air quality index is a piecewise linear function of the pollutant concentration.\nAt the boundary between AQI categories, there is a discontinuous jump of one AQI unit.\nTo convert from concentration to AQI this equation is used:\n\nformula_1\n\nwhere:\n\nEPA's table of breakpoints is:\nSuppose a monitor records a 24-hour average fine particle (PM) concentration of 12.0 micrograms per cubic meter. The equation above results in an AQI of:\n\ncorresponding to air quality in the \"Good\" range. To convert an air pollutant concentration to an AQI, EPA has developed a calculator.\n\nIf multiple pollutants are measured at a monitoring site, then the largest or \"dominant\" AQI value is reported for the location. The ozone AQI between 100 and 300 is computed by selecting the larger of the AQI calculated with a 1-hour ozone value and the AQI computed with the 8-hour ozone value.\n\n8-hour ozone averages do not define AQI values greater than 300; AQI values of 301 or greater are calculated with 1-hour ozone concentrations. 1-hour SO values do not define higher AQI values greater than 200. AQI values of 201 or greater are calculated with 24-hour SO concentrations.\n\nReal-time monitoring data from continuous monitors are typically available as 1-hour averages. However, computation of the AQI for some pollutants requires averaging over multiple hours of data. (For example, calculation of the ozone AQI requires computation of an 8-hour average and computation of the PM or PM AQI requires a 24-hour average.) To accurately reflect the current air quality, the multi-hour average used for the AQI computation should be centered on the current time, but as concentrations of future hours are unknown and are difficult to estimate accurately, EPA uses surrogate concentrations to estimate these multi-hour averages. For reporting the PM, PM and ozone air quality indices, this surrogate concentration is called the NowCast. The Nowcast is a particular type of weighted average that provides more weight to the most recent air quality data when air pollution levels are changing. There is a free email subscription service for New York inhabitants - AirNYC. Subscribers get notifications about the changes in the AQI values for the selected location (e.g. home address), based on air quality conditions.\n\nReal time monitoring data and forecasts of air quality that are color-coded in terms of the air quality index are available from EPA's AirNow web site. Other organizations provide monitoring for members of sensitive groups such as asthmatics, children and adults over the age of 65. Historical air monitoring data including AQI charts and maps are available at EPA's AirData website. Detailed map about current AQI level and its two-day forecast is available from Aerostate web site.\n\nThe AQI made its debut in 1968, when the National Air Pollution Control Administration undertook an initiative to develop an air quality index and to apply the methodology to Metropolitan Statistical Areas. The impetus was to draw public attention to the issue of air pollution and indirectly push responsible local public officials to take action to control sources of pollution and enhance air quality within their jurisdictions.\n\nJack Fensterstock, the head of the National Inventory of Air Pollution Emissions and Control Branch, was tasked to lead the development of the methodology and to compile the air quality and emissions data necessary to test and calibrate resultant indices.\n\nThe initial iteration of the air quality index used standardized ambient pollutant concentrations to yield individual pollutant indices. These indices were then weighted and summed to form a single total air quality index. The overall methodology could use concentrations that are taken from ambient monitoring data or are predicted by means of a diffusion model. The concentrations were then converted into a standard statistical distribution with a preset mean and standard deviation. The resultant individual pollutant indices are assumed to be equally weighted, although values other than unity can be used. Likewise, the index can incorporate any number of pollutants although it was only used to combine SOx, CO, and TSP because of a lack of available data for other pollutants.\n\nWhile the methodology was designed to be robust, the practical application for all metropolitan areas proved to be inconsistent due to the paucity of ambient air quality monitoring data, lack of agreement on weighting factors, and non-uniformity of air quality standards across geographical and political boundaries. Despite these issues, the publication of lists ranking metropolitan areas achieved the public policy objectives and led to the future development of improved indices and their routine application.\n\nEach of the states and territories of Australia is responsible for monitoring air quality and publishing data in accordance with the national NEPM standards.\n\nEach state and territory publishes air quality data for individual monitoring locations, and most states and territories publish air quality indexes for each monitoring location. \n\nAcross Australia, a consistent approach is taken with air quality indexes, using a simple linear scale where 100 represents the maximum concentration standard for each pollutant, as set by the NEPM. These maximum concentration standards are:\n\nThe air quality index (AQI) for an individual location is simply the highest of the air quality index values for each pollutant being monitored at that location.\n\nAQI bands, with health advice for each:\n\n\nSome of the following websites display actively updated air quality index maps; others are archived versions of inactive websites:\n"}
{"id": "1942371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942371", "title": "Quinquennial visit ad limina", "text": "Quinquennial visit ad limina\n\nIn the Catholic Church, a quinquennial visit \"ad limina\", more fully \"ad limina apostolorum\" or simply an \"ad limina\" visit, means the obligation of residential diocesan bishops and certain prelates with territorial jurisdiction (such as territorial abbots), of visiting the \"thresholds of the\" [tombs of the] \"Apostles\", Saints Peter and Paul, and of meeting the pope to report on the state of their dioceses or prelatures. It is a formal trip usually made together by all bishops from a single region (viz., an episcopal conference) to discuss with the Pope issues specific to their regions. It is separate from other trips a bishop might make to the Vatican, such as to attend a synod. The \"ad limina\" visit happens every five years, or quinquennially.\n\n\"Limina\" is the accusative plural of the Latin language noun \"limen\", meaning literally \"a threshold; the head-piece or foot-piece of a doorway,\" and in a transferred sense, \"a house, dwelling, abode.\" The Latin preposition \"ad\" means \"to, toward, at.\"\n\nIn 1585 Pope Sixtus V issued the constitution \"Romanus Pontifex\", which set forth the norm for visits \"ad limina\". On December 31, 1909, Pope Pius X stated in a \"Decree for the Consistorial Congregation\" that a bishop needs to deliver an account of the state of his diocese to the pope once every five years, starting in 1911.\n\nThe current requirements for the \"ad limina\" visit are the subject of canon 399–400 of the 1983 Code of Canon Law and canon 208 of the 1990 \"Code of Canons for the Eastern Churches\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1942372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942372", "title": "Rituparno Ghosh", "text": "Rituparno Ghosh\n\nRituparno Ghosh (31 August 1963 – 30 May 2013) was an Indian film director, actor, writer and lyricist. After pursuing a degree in economics, he started his career as a creative artist at an advertising agency. He received recognition for his second feature film \"Unishe April\" which won the National Film Award for Best Feature Film. Having won 19 National Awards, along with his contemporaries Aparna Sen and Goutam Ghose, Rituparno heralded contemporary Bengali cinema to greater heights. Ghosh died on 30 May 2013 in Kolkata after a heart attack. Ghosh was also one of the openly queer personalities in Indian culture.\n\nGhosh was influenced by the works of Satyajit Ray and was an avid reader of Rabindranath Tagore. Tagore's works are frequently referenced to in his films. He also made a documentary titled \"Jeevan Smriti\" on the life of Tagore. In his career spanning almost two decades, he won 12 National and numerous International awards. His unreleased Bengali movie \"Sunglass\" (also known as \"Taak Jhaank\") was honoured and released at the 19th Kolkata International Film Festival.\n\nRituparno Ghosh was born in a Bengali family on 31 August 1963 in Kolkata. His father, Sunil Ghosh, was a documentary film maker and painter. He completed his schooling at South Point School, and earned a degree in Economics from the Jadavpur University, Kolkata. He also has a master's degree in Economics from the same university.He was one of the few openly queer figures in Indian cinema and is considered an icon of the queer community of India.\n\nBefore his career in film, Rituparno Ghosh worked at the Response India advertising agency and became known as an especially effective copywriter in Kolkata. He was particularly noted for composing succinct, appealing one-liners and slogans for ad campaigns in Bengali during the 1980s. At the time, the trend in Kolkata was to translate all-India advertisement campaigns originally composed in English and Hindi into Bengali. Ghosh won recognition for his ability to initiate campaigns in Bengali. Among his noted ad campaigns were \"Sharad Samman\" and \"Bongo Jiboner Ango\" for the antiseptic ointment, Boroline, and others for Frooti, the largest-selling mango drink in India. Some commentators noted that his power to appeal to consumers through ad campaigns helped make his films appealing to wider audiences, particularly to middle class Bengalis.\nIn 1990, Rituparno got his first break in documentary film when his own agency, Tele-Response, a member of the Response family of companies, was commissioned to make a documentary on Vande Mataram for Doordarshan.\n\nGhosh made his directorial debut in the feature film \"Hirer Angti\" which was released in 1992, a family-friendly film based on a novel written by Shirshendu Mukhopadhyay about inheritance and conjuring tricks, and starring Moon Moon Sen, Basanta Choudhury, and others\n\nHis second film, \"Unishe April\", starring Aparna Sen, Debashree Roy, Prosenjit Chatterjee and Dipankar Dey, with a soundtrack composed by Jyotishka Dasgupta, was released in 1994, and won two National Film Awards in 1995, including Best Feature Film. It portrayed the relationship of an award-winning dancer and her emotionally abandoned daughter, who aspires to be a doctor. This film received both critical acclaim and commercial success. His next film, \"Dahan\", released in 1997. won Ghosh the National Film Award for Best Screenplay \"Dahan\" was based on the true story of a woman who was molested on a street in Kolkata, and of another woman, a witness who came forward to bring legal action against the perpetrators, but became frustrated by the callousness of society, including the victim's family.\n\n\"Bariwali\", released in 2000, starring Kirron Kher, Rupa Ganguly and Chiranjeet Chakraborty, portrayed a lonely and withdrawn widow (Kirron Kher) who rents out her large house for a film production, and fantasises about the charming and very much married director, who flirts with her but, predictably, disappoints her. Kher won National Film Award for Best Actress. In the 1999 film \"Asukh\", Ghosh dealt with the relationship between a young film star and her father who must depend unwillingly on his daughter's earnings. The film won National Film Award for Best Feature Film in Bengali.\n\nGhosh won the National Award for Best Direction for \"Utsab\", released in 2000. The film dealt with the decadence of a large family whose members now live away from the ancestral home, and meet only during the traditional Durga puja held on the premises. The 2002 film \"Titli\" was another narrative about a mother-daughter relationship—the teenage daughter has a crush on an older film star who, years ago, had an affair with the mother.\n\nThe 2003 film \"Shubho Mahurat\", a whodunit based on Agatha Christie's book, \"The Mirror Crack'd from Side to Side\", starred the veteran actresses Rakhee and Sharmila Tagore, alongside Nandita Das, in major roles. The same year, Ghosh released his film \"Chokher Bali\", based on a novel written by Rabindranath Tagore, in which Bollywood actress Aishwarya Rai worked with the director for the first time.\n\nIn 2004, Ghosh's first Hindi film, \"Raincoat\", an adaptation of the short story, The Gift of the Magi (1906), by O. Henry was released. In this film he worked with Aishwarya Rai again. The shooting of the film was completed in 17 days. This film received National Film Award for Best Feature Film in Hindi award. It was later adapted in English by Mithaq kazimi.\n\nIn 2005 the Bengali film, \"Antar Mahal\" was released. The film was set in British India and revolved around a land-owning or zamindari family. Jackie Shroff played the Zamindar. Soha Ali Khan and Roopa Ganguly played the Zaminder's wives.\n\nGhosh's 2007 film, \"The Last Lear\", revolved around the life of a retired Shakespearean theatre actor, with Amitabh Bachchan in the lead role, and with Preity Zinta and Arjun Rampal playing supporting roles.\n\nThe 2008 film, \"Khela\", was Manisha Koirala's debut film in Bengali cinema. Later the same year, \"Shob Charitro Kalponik\", starring Bipasha Basu and Prosenjit, was released, and won the National Award for Best Film in Bengali.\n\nIn 2009, Ghosh's film \"Abohomaan\", starring Jisshu Sengupta, Ananya Chatterjee, Dipankar Dey, and Mamata Shankar, was released, and won him the National film award for Best Director in Bengali for this film.\n\nJust before he died, he had finished production work on his last film, \"Satyanweshi\", based on Bengali detective Byomkesh Bakshi.\n\nRituparno Ghosh made his first screen appearance in an Oriya film, \"Katha Deithilli Ma Ku\", which was directed by Himanshu Parija and released in 2003. In 2011, he acted in two Bengali films— \"Arekti Premer Golpo\" directed by Kaushik Ganguly, which dealt with queer relationships, and \"Memories in March\" directed by Sanjoy Nag.\n\n\"Chitrangada\" (2012) was Ghosh's last film to be released. Loosely based on Rabindranath Tagore's work 'Chitrangada', this film received the special jury award at the 60th National Film Awards.\n\nRituparno Ghosh hosted two celebrity chat shows, \"Ebong Rituporno\" on ETV Bangla and \"Ghosh & Co.\" on Star Jalsha. He was the scriptwriter of \"Gaaner Opare\". Ghosh had planned a 13-episodes long television series based on Miss Marple, featuring the character of Ranga Pishima from his film, \"Shubho Mahurat\". Titled \"Tahar Namti Ranjana\", it remained unfinished on his death. Star Jalsha telecasted the only finished episode from the planned series posthumously in June 2013.<ref name=\"https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/entertainment/bengali/movies/news/rituparno-ghosh-has-not-left-us-prosenjit/articleshow/69059466.cms\"></ref>\n\nRituparno Ghosh was the editor of the Bengali film magazine, \"Anandalok\" from 1997 to 2004. He was also the editor of \"Robbar\" magazine of \"Sangbad Pratidin\" from 2006 till his death.\n\nRituparno suffered from diabetes mellitus type 2 for ten years, and pancreatitis for five years. He experienced insomnia and had been taking medication for it. According to Dr Rajiv Seal of Fortis Hospitals, who had been his physician for almost two decades, Rituparno was also facing complications from hormone treatments after abdominoplasty and breast implants operations which he underwent for his role in Kaushik Ganguly's film, \"Arekti Premer Golpo\", in which he played a transgender filmmaker with a bisexual lover.\nGhosh died at his Kolkata residence on 30 May 2013, following a massive heart attack. His attendants, Dileep and Bishnu, found him lying unconscious in bed. Nilanjana Sengupta, wife of actor Jisshu Sengupta, sent for Dr. Nirup Mitra, who declared Ghosh dead. Ghosh was 49 years old.\n\nMany Bengali film actors and directors went to Ghosh's residence to pay tribute. In the afternoon his body was taken to Nandan and kept outside the Nandan complex for some time to allow his fans to see him one last time. Thousands of people came to Nandan to pay homage. Then his body was taken to Tollygunge Technician Studios, where West Bengal's Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee spoke of him in tribute. From Tollygunge, Ghosh's body was taken to Siriti cremation ground where his funeral took place. He was given gun salute by Kolkata Police before cremation.\n\nBengali actor Soumitra Chatterjee said \"I cannot believe that Rituparno is no more. It is very difficult to accept this news. We lost a very promising film director at a very early age.\" Konkona Sen Sharma, who acted in Ghosh's \"Titli\" and \"Dosar\", said that Ghosh's death was a great personal loss for her. Actor Arindam Sil requested to observe the day as a day of national mourning. Dev said he was speechless after getting the news. Rituparna Sengupta described Ghosh as a creative genius who had enriched the Bengali film industry emotionally and culturally.\n\nAmitabh Bachchan remembered Ghosh as the only director who had worked with every member of the Bachchan family. He tweeted, \"Ghosh was a sensitive artistic minded gentle human being.\" For actress Bipasha Basu it was heartbreaking news, difficult to believe. Film director Shyam Benegal said, Ghosh's death was a \"huge tragedy\". Soha Ali Khan described Ghosh as one in the vanguard of Bengali cinema who created a link between Satyajit Ray and a new school of Bengali filmmakers. To Arjun Rampal, Ghosh was \"a master of his craft\" and a wonderful man. Actress Kirron Kher remembered his childlike wonder and added, \"In the film world, which is replete with ignorant people, Ritu was a very well-read man. He had a library of his own and would study religiously. His knowledge was unparalleled.\"\n\nThe Indian consulate in Bangladesh held a retrospective and Mithaq Kazimi wrote his reactions via his personal blog.\n\nRituparno Ghosh was one of the most acclaimed film directors of India, and was himself an admirer of Satyajit Ray. His films glorified womanhood and closely and sensitively portrayed women's lives, feelings and sufferings. According to Bollywood actor Anupam Kher, Ghosh had wonderful understanding of the female psyche. In his last films he addressed issues of homosexuality and gender.\n\nAn article in the newspaper \"Live Mint\" categorised Ghosh's cinematic career in three phases: In his early films, he tried to portray Bengali middle-class lives, their aspirations and desires; in the second phase, he mainly worked with Bollywood actors and made films in Hindi and English as well as Bengali; in the third and the last phase his movies mainly dealt with sexuality.\n\nRituparno Ghosh had deep interests in the classics and made multiple films of Rabindranath Tagore's works. According to film-maker Goutam Ghose—\n\nHis films, with their sensitive portrayal of human relationships, anguish, trauma and love in a fast-changing, post-liberalisation India charmed audiences. His brilliant story-telling reflected contemporary society like never before. While his death creates a tremendous void that can never be filled, Rituparno's work blazed a trail that has paved the way for an entire generation of filmmakers who have dared to be different. It was Rituparno who gave them the courage... ...He looked at ordinary middle-class relationships from an angle that had never been explored. For example, the mother-daughter relationship in 'Unishe April' was refreshing, yet realistic in a society that was going through churning.\nGoutam Ghose also felt that Rituparno Ghosh was the best film director of his generation.\nHe directed and as well as acted in such films which tried to reject the concept that homosexual relationship is all about a physical relationship. He said in an interview in 2010— \"There is much more to such relationships. Same-sex relationships, too, are extremely soulful, emotional and have the same pathos that any heterosexual relationship has.\"\n\nBengali film director Mrinal Sen said that whenever he thought of direction, the name that came to mind was Rituparno Ghosh. According to Sen, Ghosh's contribution to Indian cinema will be remembered forever. The independent film critic Saibal Chatterjee, in an article in The Hindu, described the way Ghosh mixed the literary traditions of Bengal with modern-day sensibility, thereby transcending the confines of region. Chatterjee praised Ghosh for his brave and empathetic treatment of \"alternative sexuality\" as actor in \"Arekti Premer Golpo\" and \"Memories in March\", and as director-actor in \"Chitrangada\".\n\nGhosh was a researcher and admirer of Rabindranath Tagore. He made three films directly based on literary works of Rabindranath Tagore— \"Choker Bali\" (2003), \"Noukadubi\" (2010) and \"Chitrangada\" (2012). In the film \"Asukh\" (1999) Tagore played an invisible role. In 2012, Ghosh made a documentary based on Tagore's autobiography, 'Jiban Smriti', for the Government of India Ministry of Culture.\n\nIn an interview in August 2012, Ghosh spoke about Tagore— \"What comes through is what a lonely man Tagore was – from childhood to old age. There is no one in his life to share even his success with him. It's the journey of a lonely traveller. What I haven't captured in the documentary is what a fun-loving, humorous man he could be. I show him as a profound thinker, a guru – but then this was perhaps necessary for an audience which is not at all familiar with Rabindranath.\"\n"}
{"id": "1942377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942377", "title": "Little Italy, Chicago", "text": "Little Italy, Chicago\n\nLittle Italy, sometimes combined with University Village into one neighborhood, is on the Near West Side of Chicago, Illinois. The current boundaries of Little Italy are Ashland Avenue on the west and Interstate 90/94 on the east, the Eisenhower Expressway on the north and Roosevelt to the south. It lies between the east side of the University of Illinois at Chicago campus in the Illinois Medical District and the west side of the University of Illinois at Chicago campus. The community was once predominantly Italian immigrants but now is made up of diverse ethnic and socio-economic backgrounds as a result of immigration, urban renewal, gentrification and the growth of the resident student and faculty population of the University of Illinois at Chicago (UIC). Its Italian-American heritage is primarily evident in the Italian-American restaurants that once lined Taylor Street. The neighborhood is home to the National Italian American Sports Hall of Fame as well as the historic Roman Catholic churches Our Lady of Pompeii, Notre Dame de Chicago, and Holy Family.\n\nThe recent history of the neighborhood waves of urban renewal, starting with the construction of expressways in the 1950s, the development of UIC in the 1960s, the demolition of public housing in the 1990s and 2000s, and redevelopment of Maxwell Street in the 2000s. Along with these changes, housing prices in the area have risen.\n\nWhile there are several Italian-American communities that thrive within the Chicago metropolitan area, Taylor Street, the port-of-call for Chicago's Italian American immigrants, inherited the title of Chicago's \"Little Italy.\" Taylor Street's Little Italy is part of a larger community area — Chicago's Near West Side. Dominant among the immigrant communities that comprised the Near West Side during the mass migration of Europeans around the start of the 20th century, were Italians, Greeks and Jews. Other ethnic groups vacated the neighborhood beginning in the early 1900s, and only the Italian-American enclave remained as a vibrant community.\n\nOther ethnicities have always been present in the area known as \"Little Italy.\" Nonetheless, the neighborhood was given its name due to the strong influence of Italians and Italian culture on the neighborhood throughout the 19th and 20th century. The Italian population, peaking during the decades of the 1950s and '60s, began declining shortly after the decision to build the University of Illinois in the area was finalized in 1963. However, several Italian restaurants and businesses remain in the formerly prominent Taylor Street corridor.\n\nItalians began arriving in Chicago in the 1850s in small numbers. By 1880, there were 1,357 Italians in the city. By the 1920s, Italian cookery became one of the most popular ethnic cuisines in America, spawning many successful bakeries and restaurants—some of which prospered for generations and continue to influence the Chicago dining scene today. By 1927, Italians owned 500 grocery stores, 257 restaurants, 240 pastry shops, and numerous other food related businesses that were concentrated in the Italian neighborhoods.\n\nThe immigration of Italians accelerated throughout the late 19th century and into the early 20th century. Chicago's foreign-born Italian population was 16,008 in 1900 and peaked at 73,960 in 1930. The largest area of settlement was the Taylor Street area, but there were also 20 other significant Italian enclaves throughout the city and suburbs. This was the home of the Genna crime family.\n\nJane Addams labeled the community as \"The Hull House Neighborhood.\" One of the first newspaper articles ever written about Hull House acknowledges an invitation sent to the residents of the \"Hull House Neighborhood.\" It begins with the salutation, \"Mio Carissimo Amico,\" and is signed, \"Le Signorine, Jane Addams and Ellen Starr.\" Bethlehem-Howard Neighborhood Center Records further substantiate that, as early as the 1890s, the inner core of \"The Hull House Neighborhood\" was overwhelmingly Italians. If those were the demographics as early as the 1890s, the flight of other ethnic groups, which began after the start of the 20th century, suggests that virtually the entire community from the Chicago River on the east end out to the western ends of what came to be known as \"Little Italy\" and from Roosevelt Road on the south to the Harrison Street delta on the north — the inner core of the Hull House Neighborhood, was wall-to-wall Italian from the 1930s through the 1950s.\n\nLittle Italy used to encompass a much bigger area, but the construction of the University decimated the neighborhood. Many of the residents in the area were against the idea. Florence Scala, Chicago's legendary Taylor Street activist and longtime Hull House cohort, blamed the board of directors of Hull House for betraying the thriving, vibrant, tight knit neighborhood. Scala accused them of encouraging Daley to go ahead and destroy the neighborhood. In 1963, the trustees of Hull-House accepted an offer of $875,000 for the settlement building. Jessie Binford and Scala took the case to the Supreme Court. The court found in favor of the university and the settlement was closed on March 28, 1963.\n\nSome speculated the reason Daley chose Little Italy as the location for the University was payback, he was unhappy with the area politically and was moving UIC there to break up the Italian neighborhood and their power base. However, the area had voted overwhelmingly in favor of Daley. Following World War II, several developments hindered the cohesion of the community. The construction of the Eisenhower Expressway and the University of Illinois at Chicago Medical district forced many to move. The establishment of the Circle Campus of UIC in the 1960s by Mayor Richard J. Daley further dispersed the community. During the construction of the UIC campus, 200 businesses and 800 homes were bulldozed in Little Italy, with 5,000 residents displaced.\n\nUniversity Village was formerly home to several Chicago Housing Authority (CHA) public housing developments. These were grouped under the acronym ABLA. Those developments were: the Jane Addams Homes (first public housing development in Chicago), Grace Abbott Homes, Robert Brooks Homes, Robert Brooks Extension, and Loomis Courts. Most of ABLA razed by the CHA as part of the CHA's \"Plan for Transformation\", a program of demolition and redevelopment as mixed-income housing.\n\nABLA was demolished in stages in the early 2000s. and is currently being redeveloped as townhouses and condominiums under the name Roosevelt Square. The developer has received $9.7 million from the Roosevelt/Racine Tax Increment Financing District.\n\nRents in the area have risen in the past few decades due to an influx of condominiums, townhouses, and the proximity of Little Italy to UIC and the Loop. An example of this gentrification: in the 1990 census, no homes in the Little Italy sample area were reported to be worth more than $400,000. By contrast, according to the 2000 census, 62 homes were reportedly worth more than $500,000, and 13 of those were worth at least $1 million.\n\nTwo of the more significant landmarks of Little Italy were the Catholic churches of Our Lady of Pompeii and Holy Guardian Angel founded by Mother Cabrini. Holy Guardian Angel was the first Italian congregation in Chicago. The parish was established in 1898, and the church was built on Arthington Street in 1899. Due to the burgeoning population, a second major Italian church, Our Lady of Pompeii, was founded in 1911. The Holy Guardian Angel Church was razed for the construction of the expressway system. The Our Lady of Pompeii Church is now the Shrine of Our Lady of Pompeii.\n\nHull House, Jane Addams' settlement house known for its social and educational programs was also located within the Little Italy area.\n\nIn recent years, the National Italian American Sports Hall of Fame (founded in 1977 in Elmwood Park, Illinois) was relocated to a new building in Little Italy.\n\nLittle Italy is currently served by the Daniel Solis, alderman of Chicago's 25th Ward, and Bob Fioretti, of the 2nd Ward. The neighborhood is part of Illinois's 7th Congressional District, currently filled by Democrat Danny K. Davis.\n\nTaylor Street has popularly been known as Chicago's \"Little Italy,\" but several other areas in Chicago have had significant Italian populations. Inner-city enclaves along Taylor Street, Roseland on the Southwest Side and Little Sicily on the Near North Side, as well as enclaves beyond the city limits, such as those in Highwood and Melrose Park, all flourished.\n\nIn the 22nd Ward on the city's Near North Side, a Sicilian enclave known alternately as \"Little Sicily\" and \"Little Hell\" was established in an area formerly populated by Scandinavians. It was considered the most colorful Italian neighborhood, and was home to 20,000 Italians by 1920. The neighborhood no longer exists due to the construction of the Cabrini–Green public housing projects on the site during and after World War II. By the mid 1960s, crime and social problems resulting from the housing projects caused many of the earlier residents to leave.\n\nAn Italian enclave exists along Grand Avenue to Chicago Avenue between Aberdeen Street and Washtenaw Avenue. As noted by Maureen Jenkins, Staff Reporter for Chicago Sun Times: \"You're still likely to hear folks speaking dialects from Sicily and the coastal city of Bari, which stands on the \"heel\" side of the Italian boot in the Puglia region. In fact, this sliver of Grand—with its private men's clubs and markets where sausage still is made by hand—feels way more \"Little Italy\" than current-day Taylor Street\".\n\nOn the city's Lower West Side, a community centered on 24th and Oakley called the \"Heart of Italy\" or \"Little Tuscany\" is composed mostly of Northern Italian immigrants. While Taylor Street goes by the popular Little Italy moniker, that designation once belonged to a stretch of decades-old ristoranti on the 2400 block of South Oakley, an area now known as Heart of Italy.\n\nPerhaps the largest concentration of Italian businesses and residents in present-day Chicago is located along Harlem Avenue on the Northwest Side and neighboring Elmwood Park.\n\nThe area from the river to the Dan Ryan, 26th to 39th (excluding the Wentworth Gardens housing project) has a large Italian population, specifically in the eastern portion near Armour Square Park. Located on Shield Ave in the Old Italian American Club, founded by Angelo La Pietra in the early 1980s. The neighborhood is home to several Italian churches, bakeries and restaurants.\n\nThe 1980 novel \"Paper Fish\" by Antoinette \"Tina\" De Rosa takes place in Little Italy.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1942385", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942385", "title": "Yima", "text": "Yima\n\nYima may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "1942386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942386", "title": "Passiflora incarnata", "text": "Passiflora incarnata\n\nPassiflora incarnata, commonly known as maypop, purple passionflower, true passionflower, wild apricot, and wild passion vine, is a fast-growing perennial vine with climbing or trailing stems. A member of the passionflower genus \"Passiflora\", the maypop has large, intricate flowers with prominent styles and stamens. One of the hardiest species of passionflower, it is both found as a wildflower in the southern United States and in cultivation for its fruit and striking bluish purple blooms.\n\nThe stems can be smooth or pubescent; they are long and trailing, possessing many tendrils. Leaves are alternate and palmately 3-lobed and occasionally 5-lobed, measuring . They have two characteristic glands at the base of the blade on the petiole. Flowers have five bluish-white petals. They exhibit a white and purple \"corona\", a structure of fine appendages between the petals and stamens. The large flower is typically arranged in a ring above the petals and sepals. They are pollinated by insects such as bumblebees and carpenter bees, and are self-sterile. The flower normally begins to bloom in July.\n\nThe fleshy fruit, also referred to as a maypop, is an oval yellowish berry about the size of a hen egg; it is green at first, but then becomes yellow as it matures. As with other passifloras, it is the larval food of a number of lepidoptera species, including the zebra longwing, the Gulf fritillary, the crimson-patched longwing, the Julia, the Plebeian sphinx, and the variegated fritillary. In many cases its fruit is very popular with wildlife. The egg-shaped green fruits 'may pop' when stepped on. This phenomenon gives the \"P. incarnata\" its common name, as well as the fact that its roots can remain dormant for most of the winter underground and then the rest of the plant \"pops\" out of the ground by May, unharmed by the snow.\n\nThe maypop occurs in thickets, disturbed areas, near riverbanks, and near unmowed pastures, roadsides, and railroads. It thrives in areas with lots of available sunlight. It is not found in shady areas beneath a forest canopy.\n\nThe Cherokee in the Tennessee area called it \"\"; the Ocoee River and valley are named after this plant, which is the Tennessee state wildflower. For thousands of years the maypop was a staple food and medicinal plant for the Cherokee and to this day it is a revered piece of their heritage. This, and other passionflowers are the exclusive larval host plants for the Gulf fritillary and non-exclusive for the variegated fritillary butterflies.\n\n\"Passiflora incarnata\" is easily cultivated and in its native range and homeland is a common low maintenance garden plant that can be trained to adorn fences and arbors. The wild maypop is an aggressive vine native to the southeastern United States extending into the central US reaching Illinois, Indiana, and Ohio. The vines can carpet the floor of thickets within days in favorable weather. The plants grow in full sun and need direct sunlight for at least half of the day. The best soils for \"P. incarnata\" are well-drained but the plants tolerate occasionally wet and acidic soils. The plants have a high drought tolerance. \"P. incarnata\" can be planted all the year in zone 7–11 (hardiness zone). The space between two plants is 36–60 inches (91.44 – 152.4 cm). One to two years are necessary before they begin bearing. Each flower has a very short life (about one day). Then the fruit develops in two to three months. The harvest depends on vine size and age of the plant but one reported 10–20 fruits per vine. Seeds can be collected in the fall after the fruit has begun to shrivel. There are some problems with nematodes and caterpillars in the culture of \"P. incarnata\". \n\nThe flowers appear suitable for bumblebee pollination and may attract ruby-throated hummingbirds. As both bees and hummingbirds look for nectar, the pollen filled flower anthers brush the back of the bee or the face of the hummingbird, enabling pollen to be readily transferred to the central sticky stigma.\n\n\"Passiflora incarnata\" can potentially become an agricultural weed. The genus \"Passiflora\" introduced for agricultural purpose has been reported as an important weed in certain regions of the world. The United States Department of Agriculture notes that \"P. incarnata\" is referred to as a weed by these publications: \"Weeds of Kentucky and adjacent states: a field guide\" and \"Weeds of the United States and Canada\".\n\nMechanical control as removing the suckers regularly is advised to prevent the spreading of maypop. It is also recommended to train the vines onto trellis and fences to limit propagation.\n\nHistorically, the plant has been used as a herbal medicine in the belief it may treat anxiety, insomnia, or hypertension. Passionflower is included in pharmacopeias, such as the European and British Pharmacopoeias in which the dried aerial parts of the plant are mentioned. In North America and South America, tea made from the roots is used as a tonic.\n\nIn traditional medicine, passionflower is reputed to have sedative effects as used historically in Europe, but in 1978, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) prohibited its use in over-the-counter sedative preparations because it had not been proven safe and effective. When used in food manufacturing as a flavor, passionflower is included among substances approved by the FDA.\n\nPassionflower is classified as generally recognized as safe (GRAS) for use as a flavor in foods in the United States, and possibly \"can be used for the relief of mild symptoms of mental stress and to aid sleep.\" There is no evidence that \"P. incarnata\" has anti-disease activity.\n\nPossible interactions with following medications:\n\"P. incarnata\" may increase main effects or side effects of medications listed above.\n\nFor oral consumption, pregnant or breastfeeding women should use caution and seek medical advice before orally consuming \"P. incarnata\". The effects of oral ingestion of the plant compounds on reproduction or on unborn child have not been tested. The oral consumption of this plant may prejudice the ability to drive and use machinery.\n\n\"P. incarnata\" contains flavonoids and alkaloids, with leaves containing the greatest concentration of flavonoids. Other flavonoids present in \"P. incarnata\" include chrysin, apigenin, luteolin, quercetin, kaempferol, and isovitexin.\n\nThe fruit of passionflower may be used for jams, jellies and desserts. The juice is a favourite flavouring in drinks. It can be used as a fresh substitute for its commercially grown South American relative, \"Passiflora edulis\"; both belong to the same subgenus within their species and have similar sized fruit. The fruit can be eaten by hand, as indicated by its common name, given to it by Cajuns: liane de grenade or \"pomegranate vine\". It has a slightly sweet-tart taste and a pleasant scent when fully ripe.\n\n"}
{"id": "1942388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942388", "title": "Scott Sauerbeck", "text": "Scott Sauerbeck\n\nScott William Sauerbeck (born November 9, 1971) is a retired left-handed Major League Baseball relief pitcher.\n\nSauerbeck attended Northwest High School in Cincinnati, and played baseball, basketball, and soccer graduating in 1990.\n\nHe called himself \"the curveball flipping freak.\"\n\nAfter attending Miami University in Oxford, Ohio, Sauerbeck was drafted by the New York Mets in the 23rd round of the 1994 amateur draft.\n\nAfter four seasons in the minor leagues, Sauerbeck was drafted by the Pittsburgh Pirates in the Rule 5 draft. In four and a half seasons with the Pirates, he had an ERA of 3.56 and compiled a record of 19-15 with five saves in 341 games out of the bullpen.\n\nDuring the season, Sauerbeck and pitcher Mike González were traded to the Boston Red Sox for Brandon Lyon and Anastacio Martinez, but the Pirates backed out of the deal after discovering an injury to Lyon. However, the Pirates and Red Sox worked out another trade that sent Sauerbeck and Jeff Suppan to Boston for infielder Freddy Sanchez. With Boston, he pitched in 26 games and made one postseason appearance.\n\nIn the offseason, he signed with the Cleveland Indians, but missed the season due to an injury. In June , Cleveland released him due to poor performance on the field and being arrested for permitting someone intoxicated to drive his car. Two weeks later, he signed with the Oakland Athletics. On October 10, 2006, Oakland released him.\n\nOn February 2, 2007, he signed a minor league deal with the Houston Astros. He was released by the Astros while pitching for the Round Rock Express, their Triple-A affiliate on June 19, 2007. On February 1, 2008, Sauerbeck signed a minor league contract with an invitation to spring training with the Cincinnati Reds. The Reds released him on May 6, 2008. He signed a minor league contract with the Chicago White Sox and was assigned to their Triple-A affiliate, the Charlotte Knights, later in May. Sauerbeck's final minor league game was August 29, pitching a scoreless inning with two strikeouts against the Durham Bulls. He announced his retirement following the game. With the Knights, Scott compiled a 1-2 record with a 4.37 ERA in 37 games.\n\n, or Retrosheet\n"}
{"id": "1942390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942390", "title": "David Monette", "text": "David Monette\n\nDavid G. Monette is an American craftsman who designs and builds custom-built brass instruments and mouthpieces for musicians.\n\nMonette's experience as a trumpeter and the influence of acoustician Arthur Benade lead Monette to redesign the trumpet mouthpiece with the goal of improving playability and sound quality. Since the first mouthpieces reached the market in 1985, Monette has made mouthpieces for tuba, trombone, Eb trumpet, and A and Bb piccolo trumpet.\n\nHe has designed mouthpieces and trumpets for Maynard Ferguson, Wynton Marsalis and Charles Schlueter, as well as tubist Chester Schmitz. Monette designed the \"Flumpet\", a combination of a trumpet and flugelhorn, for jazz musicians Art Farmer and Mark Isham.\n\nMonette designed his first trumpet in 1983. A perfectionist, he has said that his vision is to create a trumpet with the \"perfect sound\", which, according to Monette, is a sound that \"gets out of the way\" of the connection between a musician and an audience.\n"}
{"id": "1942391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942391", "title": "Senior status", "text": "Senior status\n\nSenior status is a form of semi-retirement for United States federal judges and judges in some state court systems. To qualify, a judge must be at least 65 years of age, and the combination of the judge's age and years of service in federal courts must be at least 80 years. Under senior status, they receive the full salary of a judge but have the option to take a reduced caseload, although many senior judges choose to continue to work full-time. Additionally, senior judges do not occupy seats; instead, their seats become vacant, and the president may appoint new full-time judges to fill their spots.\n\nDepending on how heavy a caseload they carry, senior judges remain entitled to maintain a staffed office, including a secretary and one or more law clerks. States having a similar system include Iowa (for judges on the Iowa Court of Appeals), Pennsylvania, and Virginia (for Justices of the Virginia Supreme Court). \n\nIn the United Kingdom, retired Justices of the Supreme Court of the United Kingdom and certain other retired senior British judges may, at the request of the President of the Supreme Court, sit as \"acting judges\" on a \"supplementary panel\" of the Court, provided that they are below the age of 75 at the time of the request.\n\nSenior status is defined by statutory law, specifically . To be in senior status, §371(e)(1) requires that a judge must be annually certified by the chief judge as having met at least one of the following criteria:\nIn addition, §371(e)(1)(e) provides that a judge not meeting these criteria may still be certified as being in senior status by the chief judge anyway, provided that the judge did not meet those criteria \"because of a temporary or permanent disability\".\n\nThe United States Code does not refer to \"senior status\" in its body text, although the title of 28 U.S.C. § 371 is \"Retirement on salary; retirement in senior status.\" The term \"senior judge\" is explicitly defined by to mean an inferior court judge who is in senior status.\n\nA justice of the Supreme Court who (after meeting the age and length of service requirements prescribed in 28 U.S.C. § 371) retires is thereafter referred to as a \"retired justice\". No mention is made, either in section 371 or in section 294 (which does address the assignment of retired justices), of \"senior justice\". In practice, when a circuit or district judge on senior status sits on an inferior court case, he or she is referred to as \"Senior Judge\" in the opinion, while a retired justice is referred to as \"Associate Justice\" when doing so.\n\nThe rules governing assignment of senior judges are laid out in 28 U.S.C. § 294. In essence, under normal conditions, the chief judge or judicial council of a circuit may assign a senior judge belonging to that circuit to perform any duty within the circuit that the judge is willing and able to perform. A senior district judge can be assigned to an appellate case, and a circuit judge can be assigned to preside over a trial. For courts that do not fall within a circuit, such as the United States Court of International Trade, the chief judge of that court can assign a senior judge of that court to perform any duty within the circuit that the judge is willing and able to perform.\n\nIn special cases, the Chief Justice can assign a senior judge to any court. This is referred to as an assignment by designation, and requires that a certification of necessity be issued by the appropriate supervisor of the court. For a circuit or district court, this supervisor is either the chief judge or the circuit justice of the circuit. For any other court, this supervisor is the chief judge of the court.\n\nRetired justices can be assigned to any court (except the Supreme Court) that the justice is willing to accept. Theoretically, a retired justice could also be assigned to act as Circuit Justice for a circuit, but this has never occurred.\n\nIn 1919, Congress created the senior status option for inferior court judges. Before the senior status option was created, a judge who reached the age of seventy with at least ten years of service as a federal judge was allowed to retire and receive a pension for the rest of his life; afterwards, a judge who qualified for retirement could instead assume senior status. John Wesley Warrington became the first federal judge to exercise this option on October 6, 1919. At that time, Warrington had been on the bench for ten years and six months, and was 75 years old.\n\nIn 1937, the option was extended to Supreme Court justices, although justices so electing are generally referred to as \"retired\" justices rather than as on senior status. A senior justice is essentially an at-large senior judge, able to be assigned to any inferior federal court by the Chief Justice, but receiving the salary of a retired justice. However, a retired justice no longer participates in the work of the Supreme Court itself. That same year, Willis Van Devanter became the first Supreme Court justice to exercise the option. Since this option became available to Supreme Court justices, only nine have died while still in active service, the most recent being Antonin Scalia on 13 February 2016. \n\nIn 1954, Congress modified entry requirements for the senior status option. Federal judges or justices could still assume senior status at seventy with ten years of service, but they could also assume senior status at 65 with fifteen years of service. In 1984, the requirements were further modified to what is often called the \"Rule of 80\": once a judge or justice reached age 65, any combination of years of age and years of service on the federal bench which totaled to eighty entitled the judge to assume senior status.\n\nSenior status was not originally known as such. In 1919, when the senior status option was created, a judge who had assumed what is now called \"senior status\" was referred to as a \"retired judge\". The title of \"senior judge\" was instead used to refer to the active judge with the most seniority in a given court; after 1948, this notion was formalized and modified under the new title of \"chief judge\". In 1958, the term \"senior judge\" was given its current meaning of a judge who had assumed senior status.\n\nIn a 2007 article in the \"Cornell Law Review\", David Stras and Ryan Scott suggested that senior status may be unconstitutional.\n\n"}
{"id": "1942392", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942392", "title": "Saint-Simon, Quebec", "text": "Saint-Simon, Quebec\n\nSaint-Simon, Quebec, may mean any of the following Canadian locations:\n\n"}
{"id": "1942394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942394", "title": "Michael McLean (composer)", "text": "Michael McLean (composer)\n\nMichael H. McLean (born 1952) is an American songwriter, playwright, author, and filmmaker based in Heber City, Utah.\n\nMcLean attended high school in the Chicago area, where he served as student body president and performed in the school's production of \"The Music Man\". He is a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church) and was the only Latter-day Saint in his graduating class.\n\nMcLean served an LDS mission in South Africa. After returning from his mission he formed a band. They went around at the bottom of the club circuit, but never made a break. While a student at Brigham Young University (BYU) he took a music theory class in which he received a C and was told that he did not have what it would take to make it in music professionally.\n\nAfter this McLean went to the University of Utah. He took a weekly composition class with Merrill Bradshaw. He made some professional progress writing music for local commercials in Salt Lake City.\n\nMcLean finally quit college after his wife, Lynne, was in an auto accident. His first significant professional break through came from writing commercials for the LDS Church's \"Homefront\" campaign. He took a job as producer for the Mormon Tabernacle Choir in 1976. McLean would work with the Choir until 1993.\n\nAs a composer, McLean has produced more than 20 albums of original music, selling over one million copies since his 1983 debut. Focused mainly on a Latter-day Saint audience, McLean has also produced albums with a broader appeal, such as \"The Forgotten Carols\". McLean's most recent musical releases have been through Shadow Mountain Records, with \"The Forgotten Carols\" on a separate Deseret Book label.\n\nMcLean authored a book in conjunction with \"The Forgotten Carols\" and enjoys continued success from that work via annual, regional tours of a stage adaptation during the Christmas season. He has also authored other books.\n\nIn 1986, McLean began work on a musical called \"The Ark\", in collaboration with BYU professor Kevin Kelly, which originally debuted at the Plum Alley Theatre. In 2000, the musical participated in the Festivals of New Musicals in New York City. The play was later produced off-Broadway in New York City by Erik Orton, with the first performance in November 2005.\n\nIn the early 1980s, McLean convinced legendary actor Jimmy Stewart to work with him at a reduced rate in a made-for-TV film entitled \"Mr. Krueger's Christmas\". McLean later worked with other notable actors in various writing, directing, and producing projects, including Academy Award winner Celeste Holm.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1942395", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942395", "title": "List of neighborhoods in Chicago", "text": "List of neighborhoods in Chicago\n\nThere are sometimes said to be more than 200 neighborhoods in Chicago, though residents differ on their names and boundaries. A city ordinance prescribing and mapping 178 neighborhoods is almost unknown and ignored even by municipal departments. Neighborhood names and identities have evolved over time due to real estate development and changing demographics. The City of Chicago is also divided into 77 community areas which were drawn by University of Chicago researchers in the late 1920s. Chicago's community areas are well-defined, generally contain multiple neighborhoods, and are less commonly used by city residents. More historical images of Chicago neighborhoods can be found in Explore Chicago Collections, a digital repository made available by Chicago Collections archives, libraries and other cultural institutions in the city.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1942399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942399", "title": "Alex Cora", "text": "Alex Cora\n\nJosé Alexander Cora (born October 18, 1975) is a Puerto Rican former infielder and manager in Major League Baseball (MLB). He most recently served as the manager of the Boston Red Sox, and led the team to the 2018 World Series championship in his first season, becoming the fifth manager to do so in MLB history and the first as a Puerto Rican manager.\n\nCora played college baseball for the Miami Hurricanes before starting a professional baseball career. He played in MLB from 1998 through 2011, for the Los Angeles Dodgers, Cleveland Indians, Boston Red Sox, New York Mets, Texas Rangers, and Washington Nationals. Cora was then a baseball analyst for ESPN before becoming a coach and manager.\n\nIn November 2019, Cora was implicated in a sign-stealing scandal during his time as a coach with the Houston Astros. Amid an investigation to determine if he took part in another such scandal during his time managing the Red Sox, Cora and the Red Sox mutually agreed to part ways in January 2020. On April 22, 2020, MLB commissioner Rob Manfred suspended Cora through the 2020 postseason for his role in the Astros sign stealing scandal.\n\nCora was drafted in the 12th round of the 1993 Major League Baseball draft by the Minnesota Twins, but did not sign a contract and decided instead to play collegiate baseball at the University of Miami. While there, Cora was named to the College World Series all-tournament team in both 1995 and 1996. He led the team to the title game in 1996, a game they lost to Louisiana State University.\n\nCora was rated by \"Baseball America\" as the best collegiate defensive player going into the 1996 draft. Cora was drafted by the Los Angeles Dodgers in the third round, and played 61 games of the 1996 season with the Class A-Advanced Vero Beach Dodgers, batting .257 with no home runs and 26 RBIs. He played the 1997 season with the Double-A San Antonio Missions; in 127 games he batted .234 with 3 home runs and 48 RBIs. Cora spent parts of the 1998, 1999, and 2000 seasons with the Triple-A Albuquerque Dukes, hitting .264 in 81 games, .308 in 80 games, and .373 in 30 games, respectively.\n\nCora made his major league debut on June 7, 1998, with the Dodgers against the Seattle Mariners; his brother Joey Cora was Seattle's starting second baseman in the game. Alex Cora spent the next seven years in Los Angeles, appearing in a total of 684 games while batting .246 with 27 home runs and 173 RBIs. During his time with the Dodgers, he played at second base and shortstop. During the 2000 and 2001 seasons, Cora mostly played shortstop as the Dodgers moved the aging Mark Grudzielanek to second base. With the emergence of César Izturis in 2002, and the trade of Grudzielanek to the Chicago Cubs in December of the same year, Cora spent the rest of his stint with the Dodgers as their primary second baseman.\n\nCora played in one postseason series with the Dodgers, the 2004 NLDS, which the Dodgers lost to the St. Louis Cardinals. Cora was the Dodgers' second baseman in all four games, batting 2-for-15 (.133) during the series.\n\nIn January 2005, Cora signed as a free agent with the Cleveland Indians, where he appeared in 49 games, with 22 starts at shortstop and 14 at second base; he batted .205 with a home run and 8 RBIs. On July 7,2005, Cora was traded to the Boston Red Sox for infielder Ramón Vázquez.\n\nCora made his Red Sox debut on July 7, 2005, and through the end of the regular season appeared in a total of 47 games for Boston, batting .269 with 2 home runs and 16 RBIs. In the 2005 ALDS, which Boston lost to the Chicago White Sox in a three-game sweep, Cora played in one game as a defensive replacement, without a plate appearance.\n\nCora was originally intended to back up shortstop Édgar Rentería. With the trade of Rentería to the Atlanta Braves in December 2005, Cora was being eyed to take the position of starting shortstop, until the Red Sox acquired Álex González in February 2006. For the 2006 season, Cora appeared in 96 games, batting .238 with one home run and 18 RBIs.\n\nCora was a member of the Red Sox team that won the 2007 World Series. During the regular season, he appeared in 83 games and batted .246 with 3 home runs and 18 RBIs. In the postseason, he appeared as a late-innings defensive replacement in two games of the 2007 ALCS and two games of the World Series. He had one plate appearance, a sacrifice bunt in World Series game 3.\n\nFor the 2008 regular season, Cora played in 75 games, batting .270 with no home runs and 9 RBIs. He appeared in four postseason games; two games of the 2008 ALDS, which Boston won, and two games of the 2008 ALCS, which Boston lost. He batted 4-for-26 (.154) with no home runs and one RBI. These games were the final postseason appearances for Cora as a player.\n\nOn October 30, 2008, Cora became a free agent. In his four seasons with Boston, he appeared in 301 regular season games, batting .252 with 6 home runs and 61 RBIs.\nOn January 22, 2009, Cora signed a one-year deal with the New York Mets. During the 2009 season, he appeared in 82 games, batting .251 with one home run and 18 RBIs. In November 2009, Cora re-signed with the Mets for the 2010 season, with an option for 2011. He was released by the Mets on August 7, 2010 — at the time, he was batting .207 with no home runs and 20 RBIs, having played in 62 games of the 2010 season. In his time with the Mets, Cora appeared in a total of 144 games, with a .234 batting average, 1 home run, and 38 RBIs.\n\nOn August 17, 2010, Cora signed a minor league contract with the Texas Rangers, and was assigned to their Triple-A affiliate Oklahoma City, where he appeared in 6 games, batting 4-for-22 (.182). He then played four games for the Rangers, batting 2-for-7 (.286). The Rangers released Cora on September 7. Despite his limited time with Texas, the team later rewarded him with an AL Championship ring.\n\nIn January 2011, the Nationals signed Cora to a minor league contract. During the 2011 season, he appeared in 91 games for Washington, batting .224 with no home runs and 6 RBIs. Cora's final MLB appearance was with the Nationals on September 28, 2011, when he tripled as a pinch hitter against the Florida Marlins.\n\nFollowing the 2011 season, Cora played winter baseball in Puerto Rico, after which he announced his retirement; shortly thereafter he clarified that he was retiring only from winter baseball. He agreed to a minor league contract with the St. Louis Cardinals on February 5, 2012. After batting .208 with one RBI in 24 plate appearances in spring training, Cora was released by the defending World Series champions on March 25, 2012.\n\nWith the Dodgers on May 12, 2004, Cora had an 18-pitch at-bat against Chicago Cubs starting pitcher Matt Clement. Facing a 2–1 count, Cora fouled off 14 straight pitches before finally hitting a home run. It is the third longest documented at-bat since baseball statisticians began keeping track of pitch counts in the mid-1980s. So much time elapsed that Cora's brother Joey joked that he and a friend were watching the game at a restaurant, ordering their first beer during the first pitch, and by the time Cora homered they were \"so drunk that we had to call a cab to take us home.\"\n\nCora played in the two longest nine-inning games in MLB history. The first was a 4-hour, 27-minute game on October 5, 2001, between the Dodgers and the San Francisco Giants. The second game, and the longest on record, was a 4-hour, 45-minute game on August 18, 2006, the second game of a doubleheader between the Red Sox and the New York Yankees. Cora entered the 2001 game as a defensive replacement in the eighth inning, and was the starting shortstop in the 2006 game.\n\nIn the third game of the 2018 World Series, Cora managed the Red Sox in the longest game in World Series history both by time (7 hours and 20 minutes) and innings (18). The Los Angeles Dodgers, being down two games to none, won 3–2 on a walk-off home run by Max Muncy.\n\nCora played for Puerto Rico in both the 2006 and 2009 World Baseball Classics; he batted 2-for-15 (.133) and 1-for-8 (.125) in those tournaments, respectively. Cora was the general manager of the Puerto Rico national baseball team until he became Manager of the Red Sox in 2018.\n\nOn November 15, 2016, Cora became the bench coach for the Houston Astros. Cora assumed managerial duties on three occasions during the 2017 season, following ejections of Astros manager A.J. Hinch.\n\nOn August 25, 2017, Cora was ejected from a game against the Los Angeles Angels by home plate umpire Laz Díaz. Cora argued that the baseball had too much dirt on it and should be removed from play; this was Cora's first career MLB ejection.\n\nCora received his second World Series ring as a coach while with the Astros.\n\nDuring the 2017 ALCS, Cora interviewed for the open managerial position of the Boston Red Sox. It was subsequently reported that Cora would be named as Red Sox manager. On October 22, the day after the Astros defeated the New York Yankees in the 2017 ALCS, the Red Sox announced a three-year managerial contract for Cora, for the 2018 through 2020 seasons, with an option for 2021.\n\nCora formally assumed the role on November 2, 2017, following the World Series. On August 3, 2018, Cora was ejected for the first time as a manager by home plate umpire Adam Hamari for arguing warnings being issued to both benches by first base umpire and crew chief Phil Cuzzi in a game against the Yankees. Cora and the 2018 Red Sox finished with 108 wins and 54 losses.\n\nIn the American League Division Series, the Red Sox eliminated the New York Yankees, three games to one, and advanced to the American League Championship Series. Cora received his first postseason ejection on October 13, in Game 1 of the ALCS against the Houston Astros. He was ejected by home plate umpire James Hoye between the 5th and 6th innings for arguing balls and strikes. On October 18, Cora's 43rd birthday, the Red Sox defeated the Astros, 4–1, to win the ALCS in five games. The Red Sox then defeated the Los Angeles Dodgers in the World Series in five games to give Cora his first championship as a manager and third overall. Cora became the fifth rookie manager to win a World Series, the others being Bob Brenly in 2001, Ralph Houk in 1961, Eddie Dyer in 1946, Bucky Harris in 1924. In voting for the AL Manager of the Year Award, Cora finished second to Bob Melvin of the Oakland Athletics.\n\nOn November 14, 2018, the Red Sox announced that they had renegotiated Cora's contract, including an extension through the 2021 season, with a club option for 2022.\n\nOn January 14, 2020, in the wake of the Houston Astros sign stealing scandal, the Red Sox and Cora mutually agreed to part ways.\n\nOn November 13, 2019, it was reported that Cora, along with former Astros player Carlos Beltrán, played key roles in the Astros sign stealing scandal during their time with the team, which included Houston's 2017 championship season. Cora was interviewed during MLB's investigation of the Astros, with the Red Sox offering their \"full cooperation\". On January 7, 2020, \"The Athletic\" published a report alleging that the 2018 Red Sox broke MLB rules by using a video replay room during regular season games to decipher the signs of opposing catchers, according to three unnamed sources who were with the team that year. On January 13, MLB's findings regarding Houston's sign stealing were announced, including that Cora \"was the only non-player involved in the subterfuge.\" However, commissioner Rob Manfred deferred any discipline for Cora until the conclusion of the separate investigation into the 2018 Red Sox. This raised the possibility that Cora could face significant discipline from MLB, possibly as lengthy as the one-year suspension meted out to Astros manager A.J. Hinch.\n\nThe following day, Cora and the Red Sox mutually agreed to part ways. According to a joint statement issued by majority owner John Henry, chairman Tom Werner and president Sam Kennedy, all parties involved concluded that given the nature of the findings, Cora could not effectively lead the team. Cora issued a statement of his own saying that he \"did not want to be a distraction\" to the team.\n\nOn April 22, 2020, commissioner Rob Manfred issued findings from MLB's investigation about electronic sign-stealing by the 2018 Red Sox. The findings focused on the actions of the team's replay operator, who as a result was suspended for the 2020 season (including postseason) and the team forfeited their second-round selection in the 2020 MLB draft. About Cora, Manfred stated:\n\nCora lives in Caguas, Puerto Rico, during the off-season. He has four children, including twins born during the 2017 season. His older brother is Joey Cora, a former MLB utility player and current coach.\n\nCora is a 2006 inductee of the University of Miami Sports Hall of Fame.\n\nFrom February 2013 to November 2016, Cora was a color analyst for baseball on ESPN and ESPN Deportes.\n\nAfter winning the 2018 World Series, Cora took the World Series trophy to his hometown of Caguas on November 3, 2018.\n\nCora was involved in relief help for Puerto Rico after Hurricane Maria in 2017.\n\n"}
{"id": "1942408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942408", "title": "Louis Sockalexis", "text": "Louis Sockalexis\n\nLouis Francis Sockalexis (October 24, 1871 – December 24, 1913), nicknamed The Deerfoot of the Diamond, was an American baseball player. Sockalexis played professional baseball in the National League for three seasons, spending his entire career (1897-1899) as an outfielder for the Cleveland Spiders.\n\nA Native American from the Penobscot tribe, Sockalexis is often identified as the first person of Native American ancestry to play in Major League Baseball, though many conflicting reports exist. In some cases, Jim Toy, a catcher in the early American Association, is identified as the first person with Native American ancestry to play major league baseball. Author Ed Rice has disputed this, having found a death certificate for Toy stating his race as Caucasian, although birth records of the time are notoriously inaccurate. Also, Chief Yellow Horse, who played in the early 1920s, is noted as the first full-blooded American Indian to have played in the major leagues.\n\nLouis Sockalexis was born on the Penobscot Indian reservation near Old Town, Maine, in 1871. His grandfather was Chief of the Bear Clan. In his youth, Sockalexis' athletic talents were very noticeable. It was reported that Sockalexis could throw a baseball across the Penobscot River from Indian Island to the shore of Old Town. Additionally, it is said that Sockalexis and his father entertained crowds at the Bangor Race Track by playing catch across the entire track. He attended High School in Van Buren's St. Mary's.\n\nAfter completing his secondary education, Sockalexis began his college career in 1894 at the College of the Holy Cross. While there, he participated on the school's baseball, football, and track teams. Sockalexis spent those summers playing baseball in the Trolley League along the coast of Maine. After the end of the 1895-96 baseball season, the Holy Cross baseball coach accepted a position at the University of Notre Dame in February 1897. When that happened, Sockalexis decided to transfer to Notre Dame. In his two seasons at Holy Cross, Sockalexis compiled a .444 batting average.\n\nSockalexis biographer Ed Rice challenges this entire Notre Dame-Giants account, since there is (1) no known newspaper account of it and (2) it sounds too remarkably like the account that actually occurred when the Cleveland team played the Giants for the first time in the Polo Grounds. In 1897, the Notre Dame baseball team played an exhibition game against the New York Giants at the Polo Grounds. In a sign of things to come, Sockalexis had to deal with taunts, racism, and insulting chants during the game. At the same time, sports writers in attendance insulted a delegation of Pensobscots who had come from Old Town to watch the game.\n\nAmos Rusie, a future member of the Baseball Hall of Fame, pitched that day for the Giants; and, before the game, Rusie had promised to strike out Sockalexis. Things did not go well for Rusie as Sockalexis hit a home run following Rusie's first pitch. Here, Rice completely challenges the Notre Dame account: Why would Rusie promise to strike out the \"damned Indian\" as he characterized Sockalexis before he and the Cleveland team arrived in New York? When this incident occurred in the professional game, Rice and Society for American Baseball Research member Richard \"Dixie\" Tourangeau discovered Rusie had a reason to be upset with Sockalexis. It seems earlier in the 1897 season, New York had played a series in Cleveland; in the game Rusie pitched there, the game went into extra innings and Sockalexis got the game-winning hit off Rusie. This Notre Dame account hasn't been proven.\n\nHowever, Sockalexis' career at Notre Dame was short. In an event that foreshadowed future problems, the University expelled Sockalexis not long after he arrived for his problems with alcohol. Although he played exclusively as an outfielder in the majors, Sockalexis played outfield and pitcher while at Notre Dame and Holy Cross.\n\nOn March 9, 1897, Sockalexis signed a major league contract with the Cleveland Spiders. Just a month later, on April 22, Sockalexis made his major league debut. Just a few months after he was expelled from school, his drinking problems resurfaced. On July 4, 1897, Sockalexis, in an inebriated condition, jumped from the second-story window of a brothel. He severely injured his ankle in the fall. Evidently, the injury affected his play. In the five games after the injury, he had nine hits in 18 at bats. However, his fielding was not very good. From July 25 until September 12, Sockalexis played in just one game. In that game, he committed two errors. In his first season with the Spiders, Sockalexis hit for a .338 batting average with three home runs and 42 RBIs. In 66 games that season, Sockalexis also had 16 stolen bases.\n\nBurdened by his alcoholism, Sockalexis played just two more seasons of major league baseball. After a mediocre 1898 campaign, in 1899, a combined ownership cartel that controlled both the Cleveland Spiders and the St. Louis Perfectos engineered a 'trade' in which all of Cleveland's best players were assigned to St. Louis—in this way, the St. Louis team would have a shot at the pennant, while the Cleveland team would be allowed to languish. Sockalexis, no longer considered a star, was kept in Cleveland.\n\nAfter playing just 7 games for what is often considered the worst team in major league baseball history, the Spiders released Sockalexis, and his major league career was over. Sockalexis finished his career in the minor leagues and returned to Indian Island to coach juvenile teams in . Five players whom he coached went on to play in the New England League. However, his baseball career ended for good in .\n\nSockalexis suffered from tuberculosis and heart trouble in his later years. On Christmas Eve, , Sockalexis died in Burlington, Maine.\n\nAlthough Sockalexis had a brief career, he faced many obstacles during his time in professional baseball. It was reported that fans of the opposing teams often shouted racial slurs toward him due to his Penobscot heritage. Additionally, fans imitated war whoops and war dances in his presence. Later, when sports journalists attributed his rapid decline to alcoholism, they identified the disease as the inherent \"Indian weakness\".\n\nWhen the Cleveland Naps changed their name to the Indians in , the franchise reportedly did so to honor Sockalexis. The Indians' official media guide says that the owners solicited sportswriters to ask fans for their favorite nickname, and the name Indians was chosen by a young girl who wrote to one of the sportswriters whose column requested suggestions. She specifically mentioned Sockalexis and his heritage. A brief story in the February 28, 1915, issue of the Plain Dealer states that the Cleveland Indians would wear the depiction of an Indian head on the left sleeves of their uniforms to \"keep the Indians reminded of what the Braves did last year.\" Sockalexis had died two years earlier.\n\nIn recognition of his accomplishments, the American Indian Athletic Hall of Fame has elected Sockalexis. He was joined by his second cousin, marathon runner Andrew Sockalexis, who finished second in the 1912 and 1913 Boston Marathons and in fourth place at the 1912 Olympic Games in Stockholm.\n\n"}
{"id": "1942410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942410", "title": "Degassing", "text": "Degassing\n\nDegassing, also known as degasification, is the removal of dissolved gases from liquids, especially water or aqueous solutions. There are numerous methods for removing gases from liquids.\n\nGases are removed for various reasons. Chemists remove gases from solvents when the compounds they are working on are possibly air- or oxygen-sensitive (air-free technique), or when bubble formation at solid-liquid interfaces becomes a problem. The formation of gas bubbles when a liquid is frozen can also be undesirable, necessitating degassing beforehand.\n\nThe solubility of gas obeys Henry's law, that is, the amount of a dissolved gas in a liquid is proportional to its partial pressure. Therefore, placing a solution under reduced pressure makes the dissolved gas less soluble. Sonication and stirring under reduced pressure can usually enhance the efficiency. This technique is often referred to as \"vacuum degasification\". Specialized vacuum chambers, called vacuum degassers, are used to degas materials through pressure reduction.\n\nGenerally speaking, an aqueous solvent dissolves less gas at higher temperature, and vice versa for organic solvents (provided the solute and solvent do not react). Consequently, heating an aqueous solution can expel dissolved gas, whereas cooling an organic solution has the same effect. Ultrasonication and stirring during thermal regulation are also effective. This method needs no special apparatus and is easy to conduct. In some cases, however, the solvent and the solute decompose, react with each other, or evaporate at high temperature, and the rate of removal is less reproducible.\n\nGas-liquid separation membranes allow gas but not liquid to pass through. Flowing a solution inside a gas-liquid separation membrane and evacuating outside makes the dissolved gas go out through the membrane. This method has the advantage of being able to prevent redissolution of the gas, so it is used to produce very pure solvents. New applications are in inkjet systems where gas in the ink forms bubbles that degrade print quality, a degassing unit is placed prior to the print head to remove gas and prevent the buildup of bubbles keeping good jetting and print quality.\n\nThe above three methods are used to remove \"all\" dissolved gases. Below are methods for more selective removal.\n\nBubbling a solution with a high-purity (typically inert) gas can pull out undesired (typically reactive) dissolved gases such as oxygen and carbon dioxide. Nitrogen, argon, helium and other inert gases are commonly used. To maximize this process called sparging, the solution is stirred vigorously and bubbled for a long time. Because helium is not very soluble in most liquids, it is particularly useful to reduce the risk of bubbles in HPLC systems.\n\nIf oxygen should be removed, the addition of reductants is sometimes effective. For example, especially in the field of electrochemistry, ammonium sulfite is frequently used as a reductant because it reacts with oxygen to form sulfate ions. Although this method can be applied only to oxygen and involves the risk of reduction of the solute, the dissolved oxygen is almost totally eliminated. The ketyl radical from sodium and benzophenone can also be used for removing both oxygen and water from inert solvents such as hydrocarbons and ethers; the degassed solvent can be separated by distillation. The latter method is particularly useful because a high concentration of ketyl radical generates a deep blue colour, indicating the solvent is fully degassed.\n\nIn this laboratory-scale technique, the fluid to be degassed is placed in a Schlenk flask and flash-frozen, usually with liquid nitrogen. Next a vacuum is applied, and the flask is sealed. A warm water bath is used to thaw the fluid, and upon thawing, bubbles of gas form and escape. The process is typically repeated three times. While this is a viable method for degassing a wide variety of organic solvents, some solvents are prone to significant expansion upon flash freezing. This expansion can cause practical problems by breaking the container. Some solvents known for such behavior are water and methanol.\n\nYeast uses sugar to produce alcohol and carbon dioxide. In winemaking, carbon dioxide is an undesired by-product for most wines. If the wine is bottled quickly after fermentation, it is important to degas the wine before bottling.\n\nWineries can skip the degassing process if they age their wines prior to bottling. Storing the wines in steel or oak barrels for months and sometimes years allows gases to be released from the wine and escape into the air through air-locks.\n\n"}
{"id": "1942420", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942420", "title": "Homestead High School (Indiana)", "text": "Homestead High School (Indiana)\n\nHomestead Senior High School, in Fort Wayne, Indiana, United States, is a public four-year high school. It is a class 6A high school. Part of Southwest Allen County Schools, the school receives accreditation from the Indiana Department of Education and the North Central Association of Colleges and Secondary Schools.\n\n\"The Spartana\", Homestead's student newspaper, was awarded the NSPA Pacemaker award for its 2004-2005 and 2008-2009 volumes.\n\nWCYT is the school's student-run, not-for-profit radio station. It has been broadcasting in the city of Fort Wayne since 1995. WCYT has won 17 Indiana Association of School Broadcasters state awards since 2004, with the most recent award being in 2016.\n\nThe Homestead Spartan Alliance Band\n\nThe Homestead Spartan Alliance Band is Homestead's Marching Band.\n\nHomestead has a variety of sports teams and clubs. The school belongs to the Summit Athletic Conference after the Northeast Hoosier Conference disbanded in 2015.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1942423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942423", "title": "Bill Bonner (author)", "text": "Bill Bonner (author)\n\nBill Bonner is an American author of books and articles on economic and financial subjects. He is the founder of Agora Financial, as well as a co-founder of Bonner & Partners publishing. Bonner has written articles for the news and opinion blog LewRockwell.com, \"MoneyWeek\" magazine, and his daily financial column \"Bill Bonner's Diary\".\n\nBonner was born in 1948. He attended the University of New Mexico and Georgetown University Law School, and he began work with Jim Davidson, at the National Taxpayers Union.\n\nBonner was a director of MoneyWeek from 2003 to 2009.\n\nBonner co-authored \"Financial Reckoning Day: Surviving The Soft Depression of The 21st Century\" and \"Empire of Debt\" with Addison Wiggin. He also co-authored \"Mobs, Messiahs and Markets\" with Lila Rajiva. The latter publication won the GetAbstract International Book Award for 2008. He has previously co-authored two short pamphlets with British media historian, John Campbell, and with \"The Times\" former editor, Lord William Rees-Mogg, and has co-edited a book of essays with intellectual historian, Pierre Lemieux.\n\nIn his two financial books, as well as in \"The Daily Reckoning\", Bonner has argued that the financial future of the United States is in peril because of various economic and demographic trends, not the least of which is America's large trade deficit. He claims that America's foreign policy exploits are tantamount to the establishment of an empire, and that the cost of maintaining such an empire could accelerate America's eventual decline. Bonner argues in his latest book that mob and mass delusions are part of the human condition.\n\nBonner warned in 2015 that the credit system, which has been the essential basis of the US economy since the 1950s, will inevitably fail, leading to catastrophic failure of the banking system.\n\n"}
{"id": "1942443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942443", "title": "King Expedition of 1817", "text": "King Expedition of 1817\n\nPhillip Parker King's first exploring and surveying expedition departed Sydney on 22 December 1817 on board the cutter . On board were King, his two master's mates Frederick Bedwell and John Septimus Roe, the botanist Allan Cunningham, 12 seamen, 2 boys and the native Boongaree. The purpose of the voyage was to explore and make a rough survey of the northern and north-west coasts of Australia.\n\nFrom Port Jackson, \"Mermaid\" sailed south down the east coast, then west through Bass Strait and along the south coast. On 20 January 1818, King anchored in King George Sound, which had previously been visited by only two other British explorers, George Vancouver and Matthew Flinders. He then took \"Mermaid\" into Oyster Harbour, remaining there for nearly two weeks.\n\nOn 1 February, \"Mermaid\" left King George Sound, continuing west to Cape Leeuwin, then north up the west coast of Australia. Sickness amongst the crew left the boat badly undermanned, preventing King from examining much of the west coast. At North West Cape, they discovered and surveyed a gulf, named Exmouth Gulf after Lord Exmouth. They lost two of their three anchors while surveying the gulf, and this would greatly hamper their surveying from then on.\n\nContinuing north-east along the coast, the \"Mermaid\" eventually passed the northernmost tip of Arnhem Land, reaching a point on Cobourg Peninsula that King named Port Essington. They then crossed to Timor for reprovisioning. After a stay of two weeks at Coepang, they returned to Sydney down the west coast and east along the south coast. King and a number of the crew became dangerously ill shortly after leaving Timor, this being attributed to the food they had eaten there. During the southern leg of the journey the boat encountered extremely rough weather, and on 24 July a crew member died from his illness. The \"Mermaid\" arrived back in Sydney on 29 July, having been absent for over 30 weeks.\n\nOn reviewing the voyage, King stated that he was largely satisfied with the results. The loss of two anchors had not been as crippling as anticipated, as a long period of fine weather had enabled them to continue their work with one remaining anchor.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1942448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942448", "title": "National University of Engineering", "text": "National University of Engineering\n\nThe National University of Engineering (, UNI) is a public engineering and science university located in the Rímac District of Lima, Peru.\n\nThe National University of Engineering was founded in 1876 by the Polish engineer Edward Jan Habich as the School of Civil Constructions and Mining Engineers (), but has traditionally been known as School of Engineers (\"Escuela de Ingenieros\"). At the time of its foundation, there was a growing demand for engineers in Peru due to the rapid development of mining and communications.\n\nToday, the National University of Engineering is widely regarded as the foremost science and technology-oriented university in Perú, many of its alumni occupying today positions of leadership in the fields of Industry, Academia, and Government.\n\nUNI is organized into eleven faculties which contain twenty-seven academic departments. It is a university polarized around science, engineering, and the arts. Most of the academic departments offer a wide variety of engineering specialties, including Industrial, Mechanic, Mechatronic, Electronic Engineering, and other innovative fields more related to Social Sciences such as Economic Engineering.\n\nCurrent admission is highly competitive, with 20 applicants per vacancy in the most demanding fields such as Chemical Engineering, Civil Engineering, Systems Engineering, Industrial Engineering and Mechatronic Engineering.\n\nUNI is widely known for being rigorous, demanding great focus and effort from its students. Given the competition level to be accepted to the National University of Engineering and its highly demanding curricula, the university is commonly acknowledged as the most difficult to attend in the whole country. \nThis has given UNI students recognition among Peruvians, but it has also created an imbalance sometimes regarding GPA's as compared to other schools, those of UNI's students being in some occasions lower due to the difficulty level being harder.\n\nAmong former renowned professors and students are:\n\n"}
{"id": "1942449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942449", "title": "James Thomson (cell biologist)", "text": "James Thomson (cell biologist)\n\nJames Alexander Thomson is an American developmental biologist best known for deriving the first human embryonic stem cell line in 1998 and for deriving human induced pluripotent stem cells (iPS) in 2007.\n\nHuman embryonic stem cells can divide without limit, and yet maintain the potential to make all the cells of the body. This remarkable potential makes them useful for basic research on the function of the human body, for drug discovery and testing, and as a source of cells and tissues for transplantation medicine. In 1998, Thomson's Lab was the first to report the successful isolation of human embryonic stem cells. On November 6, 1998, \"Science\" published this research in an article titled \"Embryonic Stem Cell Lines Derived from Human Blastocysts\", results which \"Science\" later featured in its “Scientific Breakthrough of the Year” article, 1999.\n\nIn spite of their great medical potential, however, human embryonic stem cells generated enormous controversy because their derivation involved the destruction of a human embryo. In 2007, Thomson's group (contemporaneously with Dr. Shinya Yamanaka) reported a method for converting human skin cells into cells that very closely resemble human embryonic stem cells. Published in \"Science\" in late 2007 in an article titled \"Induced Pluripotent Stem Cell Lines Derived from Human Somatic Cells\", the results garnered international attention for potentially ending the ethical controversy surrounding human embryonic stem cell research. Science later featured induced pluripotent stem cells in its “Scientific Breakthrough of the Year” article, 2008.\n\nThomson graduated with a B.S. in biophysics from the University of Illinois in 1981. He entered the Veterinary Medical Scientist Training Program at the University of Pennsylvania, receiving his doctorate in veterinary medicine in 1985, and his doctorate in molecular biology in 1988. His doctoral thesis involved understanding genetic imprinting in early mammalian development under the mentorship of Davor Solter at the Wistar Institute. Thomson also spent two years (1989–91) as a postdoctoral research fellow in the Primate In Vitro Fertilization and Experimental Embryology Laboratory at the Oregon National Primate Research Center, and completed a residency in veterinary pathology at the University of Wisconsin–Madison (1991–1994). He joined the Wisconsin Regional (now National) Primate Research Center on campus as its chief pathologist in 1995. There, he became the first in the world to successfully isolate and culture nonhuman primate embryonic stem cells. This led to his human embryonic stem cell discovery in 1998.\n\nHe serves as Director of Regenerative Biology at the Morgridge Institute for Research in Madison, Wisconsin, is a professor in the Department of Cell and Regenerative Biology at the University of Wisconsin School of Medicine and Public Health and a professor in the Molecular, Cellular, and Developmental Biology Department at the University of California, Santa Barbara. He is also a founder of Cellular Dynamics International, a Madison-based company producing derivatives of human induced pluripotent stem cells for drug discovery and toxicity testing.\n\nThomson is a member of the National Academy of Sciences and the recipient of numerous awards and prizes. He was on the cover of TIME magazine's \"America's Best in Science & Medicine\" feature in 2001 for his work with human embryonic stem cells, and again in 2008 when the magazine named him one of the world's 100 most influential people for his derivation of human induced pluripotent stem cells. In 2011, Thomson was co-recipient, with Dr. Shinya Yamanaka, of the King Faisal International Prize and the Albany Medical Center Prize. In 2013, Thomson received an honorary doctor of science degree from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign.\n\n"}
{"id": "1942466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942466", "title": "High resolution electron energy loss spectroscopy", "text": "High resolution electron energy loss spectroscopy\n\nHigh resolution electron energy loss spectroscopy (HREELS) is a tool used in surface science. The inelastic scattering of electrons from surfaces is utilized to study electronic excitations or vibrational modes of the surface of a material or of molecules adsorbed to a surface. In contrast to other electron energy loss spectroscopies (EELS), HREELS deals with small energy losses in the range of 10 eV to 1 eV. It plays an important role in the investigation of surface structure, catalysis, dispersion of surface phonons and the monitoring of epitaxial growth.\n\nIn general, electron energy loss spectroscopy is based on the energy losses of electrons when inelastically scattered on matter. An incident beam of electrons with a known energy (E) is scattered on a sample. The scattering of these electrons can excite the electronic structure of the sample. If this is the case the scattered electron loses the specific energy (ΔE) needed to cause the excitation. Those scattering processes are called inelastic. It may be easiest to imagine that the energy loss is for example due to an excitation of an electron from an atomic K-shell to the M-shell. The energy for this excitation is taken away from the electron's kinetic energy. The energies of the scattered electrons (E) are measured and the energy loss can be calculated. From the measured data an intensity versus energy loss diagram is established. In the case of scattering by phonons the so-called energy loss can also be a gain of energy (similar to anti-Stokes Raman spectroscopy). These energy losses allow, using comparison to other experiments or theory, one to draw conclusions about surface properties of a sample.\n\nExcitations of the surface structure are usually very low energy, ranging from 10 eV to 10 eV. In HREELS spectra electrons with only small energy losses, like also Raman scattering, the interesting features are all located very close together and especially near to the very strong elastic scattering peak. Hence EELS spectrometers require a high energy resolution. Therefore, this regime of EELS is called High Resolution EELS. In this context resolution shall be defined as the energy difference in which two features in a spectrum are just distinguishable divided by the mean energy of those features: formula_1\n\nIn the case of EELS the first thing to think of in order to achieve high resolution is using incident electrons of a very precisely defined energy and a high quality analyzer.\nFurther high resolution is only possible when the energies of the incident electrons are not far bigger than the energy losses. For HREELS the energy of the incident electrons is therefore mostly significantly smaller than 10 eV.\n\nConsidering that 10 eV electrons have a mean free path of around 1 nm (corresponds to a few monolayers), which decreases with lower energies, this automatically implies that HREELS is a surface sensitive technique.\nThis is the reason why HREELS must be measured in reflection mode and must be implemented in ultra high vacuum (UHV). This is in contrast to Core Level EELS which operates at very high energies and can therefore also be found in transmission electron microscopes (TEM). Instrumental developments have also enabled vibrational spectroscopy to be performed in TEM.\n\nIn HREELS not only the electron energy loss can be measured, often the angular distribution of electrons of a certain energy loss in reference to the specular direction gives interesting insight to the structures on a surface.\n\nAs mentioned above HREELS involves an inelastic scattering process on a surface. For those processes the conservation of energy as well as the conservation of momentum's projection parallel to the surface hold:\n\nE are energies, k and q are wave vectors and G denotes a reciprocal lattice vector. One should mention at this point that for non perfect surfaces G is not in any case a well defined quantum number, what has to be considered when using the second relation. Variables subscripted with i denote values of incident electrons those subscripted with s values of scattered electrons. “||” denotes parallel to the surface.\n\nFor the description of the inelastic scattering processes due to the excitation of vibrational modes of adsorbates different approaches exist.\nThe simplest approach distinguishes between regimes of small and large scattering angles:\n\nThe so-called dipole scattering can be applied when the scattered beam is very near to the specular direction. In this case a macroscopic theory can be applied to explain the results. It can be approached using the so-called dielectrical theory introduced by Lucas and Šunjić of which a quantum mechanical treatment was first presented by E. Evans and D.L. Mills in the early 1970s.\n\nAlternatively there is a more unfamiliar model which only holds exactly for perfect conductors:\nA unit cell at the surface does not have a homogeneous surrounding, hence it is supposed to have an electrical dipole moment. When a molecule is adsorbed to the surface there can be an additional dipole moment and the total dipole moment P is present. This dipole moment causes a long range electronic potential in the vacuum above the surface. On this potential the incident electron can scatter inelastically which means it excites vibrations in the dipole structure. The dipole moment can then be written as formula_2. When the adsorbate sticks to a metal surface, imaginary dipoles occur as shown in the figure on the right. Hence for an adsorbed dipole normal to the surface the dipole moment \"seen\" from the vacuum doubles. Whereas the dipole moment of a parallel to the surface adsorbed dipole vanishes. Hence an incident electron can excite the adsorbed dipole only when it is adsorbed normal to the surface and the vibrational mode can be detected in the energy loss spectrum. If the dipole is adsorbed parallel then no energy losses will be detected and the vibrational modes of the dipole are missing in the energy loss spectrum. When measuring the intensity of the electron energy loss peaks and comparing to other experimental results or to theoretical models it can also be determined whether a molecule is adsorbed normal to the surface or tilted by an angle.\n\nThe dielectric model also holds when the material on which the molecule adsorbs is not a metal. The picture shown above is then the limit for formula_3 where formula_4 denotes the relative dielectrical constant.\n\nAs the incident electron in this model is scattered in the region above the surface, it does not directly impact the surface and because the amount of momentum transferred is small the scattering is mostly in the specular direction.\n\nImpact scattering is the regime which deals with electrons that are scattered further away from the specular direction. In those cases no macroscopic theory exists and a microscopic theory like, quantum mechanical dispersion theory, has to be applied. Symmetry considerations then also result in certain selection rules (it is also assumed that the energy loss in the inelastic scattering process is negligible): \nAll those selection rules make it possible to identify the normal coordinates of the adsorbed molecules.\n\nIn intermediate negative ion resonance the electron forms a compound state with an adsorbed molecule during the scattering process. However, the lifetime of those states are so short that this type of scattering is barely observed.\nAll of these regimes can at once be described with the help of the single microscopic theory.\n\nA microscopic theory makes it possible to approach the selection rule for dipole scattering in a more exact way. The scattering cross section is only non-vanishing in the case of a non-zero matrix element\nformula_5.\nWhere denotes the initial and the final vibrational energy level of the adsorbed molecule and the component of its dipole moment.\n\nAs the dipole moment is something like charge times length, has the same symmetry properties as , which is totally symmetric. Hence the product of and must also be a totally symmetric function, otherwise the matrix element vanishes. Hence\n\"excitations from the totally symmetrical ground state of a molecule are only possible to a totally symmetric vibrational state.\"\nThis is the surface selection rule for dipole scattering. Note that it says nothing about the intensity for scattering or the displacement of the atoms of the adsorbate, but its total dipole moment is the operator in the matrix element. This is important as a vibration of the atoms parallel to the surface can also cause a vibration of the dipole moment normal to the surface. Therefore, the result in the \"dipole scattering\" section above is not exactly correct.\n\nWhen trying to gain information from selection rules, one must carefully consider whether a pure dipole or impact scattering region is investigated. Further symmetry-breaking due to strong bindings to the surface must be considered. Another problem is that in cases of larger molecules often many vibrational modes are degenerate, which could again be resolved due to strong molecule-surface interactions. Those interactions can also generate completely new dipole moments which the molecule does not have on its own. But when carefully investigating it is mostly possible to get a very good picture of how the molecule adheres to the surface by analysis of normal dipole modes.\n\nAs the electrons used for HREELS are of low energy they do not only have a very short mean free path length in the sample materials but also under normal atmospheric conditions. Therefore, one has to set up the spectrometer in UHV.\nThe spectrometer is in general a computer simulated design that optimizes the resolution while keeping an acceptable electron flux.\n\nThe electrons are generated in an electron source, by heating a tungsten cathode, which is encapsulated by a negatively charged so called repeller that prevents stray electrons from coming into the detector unit. The electrons can leave the source only through a lens system, like e.g. a slot lens system consisting of several slits all on different potential. The purpose of this system is to focus the electrons on the entrance of the monochromator unit, to get a high initial electron flux.\n\nThe monochromator is usually a concentric hemispherical analyser (CHA). In more sensitive setups an additional pre-monochromator is used. The task of the monochromator is to reduce the energy of the passing electrons to some eV due to the help of electron lenses. It further lets only those electrons pass which have the chosen initial energy. To achieve a good resolution it is already important to have incident electrons of a well defined energy one normally chooses a resolution of formula_6 for the monochromator. This means, the electrons leaving the monochromator with e.g. 10 eV have an energy accurate to 10 eV. The beam's flux is then in the orders of 10 A to 10 A. The radii of the CHA are in the order of several 10 mm. And the deflector electrodes have a saw tooth profile to backscatter electrons which are reflected from the walls in order to reduce the background of electrons with the wrong E. The electrons are then focused by a lens system onto the sample. These lenses are, in contrary to those of the emitter system very flexible, as it is important is to get a good focus on the sample. To enable measurements of angular distributions all those elements are mounted on a rotate able table with the axis cantered at the sample.Its negative charge causes the electron beam to broaden. What can be prevented by charging the top and bottom plates of the CHA deflectors negative. What again causes a change in the deflection angle and has to be considered when designing the experiment.\n\nIn the scattering process at the sample the electrons can lose energies from several 10 eV up to a few electron volt. The scattered electron beam which is of around 10 lower flux than the incident beam then enters, the analyzer, another CHA.\n\nThe analyzer CHA again allows only electrons of certain energies to pass to the analyzing unit, a channel electron multiplier (CEM). For this analyzing CHA the same facts are valid as for the monochromator. Except that a formula_7 higher resolution as in the monochromator is wanted. Hence the radial dimensions of this CHA are mostly bigger by like a factor 2. Due to aberrations of the lens systems the beam has also broadened. To sustain a high enough electron flux to the analyzer the apertures are also about a factor 2 bigger. To make the analysis more accurate, especially to reduce the background of in the deflector scattered electrons often two analyzers are used, or additional apertures are added behind the analyzers as scattered electrons of the wrong energy normally leave the CHAs under large angles. In this way energy losses of 10 eV to 10 eV can be detected with accuracies of about 10 eV.\n\nDue to the electron flux the apertures can become negatively charged, which makes them effectively smaller for the passing electrons. This has to be considered when doing the design of the setup as it is anyway difficult to keep different potentials, of repeller, lenses, screening elements, and the reflector, constant. \nUnstable potentials on lenses or CHA deflectors would cause fluctuations in the measured signal. Similar problems are caused by external electric or magnetic fields, either they cause fluctuations in the signal, or add a constant offset. That is why the sample is normally shielded by equipotential, metal electrodes to keep the region of the sample field free so that neither the probe electrons nor the sample is affected by external electric fields. Further a cylinder of a material with a high magnetic permeability, e.g. Mu-metal, built around the whole spectrometer to keep magnetic fields or field inhomogeneities at the experiment down to 10 mG or 1mG/cm. \nBecause of the same reason the whole experiment, except the lenses which are normally made of coated copper, is designed in stainless antimagnetic steel and insulating parts are avoided wherever possible.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1942471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942471", "title": "Great Pierogi Race", "text": "Great Pierogi Race\n\nThe Great Pittsburgh Pierogi Race N'at, commonly called the Great Pierogi Race, is an American mascot race between innings during a Pittsburgh Pirates baseball game that features seven contestants racing in giant pierogi costumes: Potato Pete (blue hat), Jalapeño Hannah (green hat), Cheese Chester (yellow hat), Sauerkraut Saul (red hat), Oliver Onion (purple hat), Bacon Burt (orange hat), and Pizza Penny (checkerboard red and white hat).\n\nThe pierogies travel once a year to Miller Park to take on the Milwaukee Brewers' racing sausages (the inspiration for the Pirates' version of the promotion) when the Pirates play the Brewers, as well as to Nationals Park to take on the Washington Nationals' racing U.S. Presidents when the Pirates play the Nationals. Similarly, both the Brewers and Nationals bring their respective characters to PNC Park when they play in Pittsburgh.\n\nThe Pierogies are often introduced to the opening tune to Run Like Hell from the Pink Floyd album \"The Wall\", and usually race in between the 5th and 6th innings.\n\nThe promotion was created by Pirates Coordinator of In-Game Entertainment Eric Wolff in 1999 at Three Rivers Stadium, then the Pirates' home park, and at the time featured only three characters: Potato Pete, Sauerkraut Saul, and Cheese Chester. It quickly became a fan favorite, and beanbags in the likeness of the different characters are given to children at certain ballgames as a promotion. Jalapeño Hannah was added soon after the promotion began. A year or two after the Pirates moved to PNC Park, Oliver Onion was added and Potato Pete dropped, though Potato Pete continued to make occasional appearances.\n\nIn previous years, the race mainly took place as an animated sequence on the video board, showing the pierogies running through different sections of Pittsburgh and an announcer speaking English to cover the race. The race culminated in the contestants running into the ballpark from right field, toward the visitors' dugout. Occasionally, the Pirate Parrot influenced the outcome of the race by distracting or knocking over contestants. A winner is determined and the leaderboard updated after the race. Often, a \"humorous\" disclaimer such as \"No pierogies were harmed in the race\" follows the leaderboard. A champion is crowned at the end of every season. At times, the Pirates will have faster runners wear costumes of pierogies that are behind in the races in order to keep the season-long competition \"close\", in effect making the races somewhat fixed. The event is sponsored by Mrs. T's Pierogies.\n\nThe animated sequence was dropped completely at the beginning of the 2009 season. Now, the race begins near where the tarp is rolled up on the third-base side, and the pierogies race around the warning track until the Clemente Wall in right-field. The race has lost many of the occasions of the Pirate Parrot influencing the ending; the races are generally won by normal means, although strange incidents do occur.\n\nIn 2008 and 2009, the pierogies appeared twice at Washington D.C.'s Nationals Park in the nightly Presidents Race. The first night in 2008, the four pierogies were chased by President Teddy, wielding a large aluminum foil fork and knife. The second night the pierogies faced off with the presidents in a relay race. The relay race was repeated in 2009, with Potato Pete TKO-ing Teddy Roosevelt with a flying tackle, which was replayed over and over on sport shows. The Presidents appeared again at PNC Park during the Pirates series against the Nationals in April 2011, racing against the pierogies.\n\nIn 2010, the Pirates fired one of the pierogie racers after he made critical comments of the team on Facebook, a story that received national headlines. Andrew Kurtz, 24, of New Brighton, Pennsylvania, had criticized the team's decision to give then-manager John Russell and Pirates GM Neal Huntington contract extensions in the midst of a 12-game losing streak. The Pirates later rehired Kurtz after the team discovered that his boss in charge of the race didn't follow proper disciplinary action within the organization. Russell himself would be fired after the Bucs finished a Major League-worst 57-105 record for 2010.\n\nDuring the race on July 23, 2014, where the Pirates were playing the Los Angeles Dodgers, Cheese Chester broke his foot while competing. Later on during the game the Pirates announced via their scoreboard that Cheese Chester was placed on the 15-day disabled list and Potato Pete would be making a return to take Chester's place for the time he'd miss due to the injury. The Pirates posted on their Twitter account a picture of Cheese Chester with crutches and confirmed it was indeed a broken foot and he would miss 6–8 weeks. It will be the first time that Potato Pete has competed in this event since the 2001 season; it will also mark the first appearance of Potato Pete at PNC Park since his encounter with Teddy Roosevelt in 2009 and his first appearance of any kind since 2012 when he confronted Teddy at Nationals Park.\n\nDuring Potato Pete's return, he won 16 races in a row to tie the other pierogies, while Cheese Chester made a \"rehab start\" during the Panera Bread Great American Bagel Race during the August 28, 2014 game between the Altoona Curve (the Pirates Double-A affiliate) and the Richmond Flying Squirrels, competing against the bagels Blueberry Bob, Asiago Allie, and Cinnamon Crunch Cindy. (Coincidentally, Pirates pitcher Charlie Morton was himself making a rehab start in the game.) It was considered the first \"MLB Mascot Rehabilitation Assignment\". Cheese Chester then spent the next two days confronting Potato Pete at PNC Park until the two agreed that whoever won a one-on-one race after the Pirates game against the Cincinnati Reds on August 30, the winner would race with the rest of the pierogies the rest of the season while the loser would be out for the season. Cheese Chester won his spot back after Potato Pete built a sizable lead but tripped after taunting Cheese Chester, allowing Cheese Chester to win the one-on-one race and return to the season-long competition.\n\nFor the 2015 season, all five pierogies started part of the Great Pierogi Race on a regular basis, although on April 18, 2015, Potato Pete was \"locked\" inside a freezer as punishment after he cheated again.\n\nDuring the Pirates first homestand of the 2015 season, the team hinted over the course of several days on its official Instagram account that a new pierogi would be joining the Great Pierogi Race. After being interviewed by the Pirate Parrot and later ordered to race around PNC Park, the pierogi was introduced as Bacon Burt. In addition to his orange cap, Bacon Burt has a moustache. Bacon Burt would win in his debut race April 19, 2015, coincidentally while the Pirates were hosting the Brewers, taking Potato Pete's spot.\n\nAlong with introducing their annual new food offerings at the concessions at PNC Park, the team introduced its second female pierogi, Pizza Penny, on March 30, 2017.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1942477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942477", "title": "In-memory database", "text": "In-memory database\n\nAn in-memory database (IMDB, also main memory database system or MMDB or memory resident database) is a database management system that primarily relies on main memory for computer data storage. It is contrasted with database management systems that employ a disk storage mechanism. In-memory databases are faster than disk-optimized databases because disk access is slower than memory access, the internal optimization algorithms are simpler and execute fewer CPU instructions. Accessing data in memory eliminates seek time when querying the data, which provides faster and more predictable performance than disk.\n\nApplications where response time is critical, such as those running telecommunications network equipment and mobile advertising networks, often use main-memory databases. IMDBs have gained much traction, especially in the data analytics space, starting in the mid-2000s – mainly due to multi-core processors that can address large memory and due to less expensive RAM.\n\nA potential technical hurdle with in-memory data storage is the volatility of RAM. Specifically in the event of a power loss, intentional or otherwise, data stored in volatile RAM is lost. With the introduction of non-volatile random access memory technology, in-memory databases will be able to run at full speed and maintain data in the event of power failure.\n\nIn its simplest form, main memory databases store data on volatile memory devices. These devices lose all stored information when the device loses power or is reset. In this case, IMDBs can be said to lack support for the \"durability\" portion of the ACID (atomicity, consistency, isolation, durability) properties. Volatile memory-based IMDBs can, and often do, support the other three ACID properties of atomicity, consistency and isolation.\n\nMany IMDBs have added durability via the following mechanisms:\n\nSome IMDBs allow the database schema to specify different durability requirements for selected areas of the database - thus, faster-changing data that can easily be regenerated or that has no meaning after a system shut-down would not need to be journaled for durability (though it would have to be replicated for high availability), whereas configuration information would be flagged as needing preservation.\n\nWhile storing data in-memory confers performance advantages, it is an expensive method of data storage. An approach to realising the benefits of in-memory storage while limiting its costs is to store the most frequently accessed data in-memory and the rest on disk. Since there is no hard distinction between which data should be stored in-memory and which should be stored on disk, some systems dynamically update where data is stored based on the data's usage. This approach is subtly different from caching, in which the most \"recently accessed\" data is cached, as opposed to the most \"frequently accessed\" data being stored in-memory. \n\nThe flexibility of hybrid approaches allow a balance to be struck between:\n\n\nIn the cloud computing industry the terms \"data temperature\", or \"hot data\" and \"cold data\" have emerged to describe how data is stored in this respect. Hot data is used to describe mission-critical data that needs to be accessed frequently while cold data describes data that is needed less often and less urgently, such as data kept for archiving or auditing purposes. Hot data should be stored in ways offering fast retrieval and modification, often accomplished by in-memory storage but not always. Cold data on the other hand can be stored in a more cost-effective way and is accepted that data access will likely be slower compared to hot data. While these descriptions are useful, there is no concrete definition for \"hot\" and \"cold\".\n\nManufacturing efficiency provides another reason for selecting a combined in-memory/on-disk database system. Some device product lines, especially in consumer electronics, include some units with permanent storage, and others that rely on memory for storage (set-top boxes, for example). If such devices require a database system, a manufacturer can adopt a hybrid database system at lower and \"upper\" cost, and with less customization of code, rather than using separate in-memory and on-disk databases, respectively, for its disk-less and disk-based products.\n\nThe first database engine to support both in-memory and on-disk tables in a single database, WebDNA, was released in 1995.\n\nAnother variation involves large amounts of nonvolatile memory in the server, for example, flash memory chips as addressable memory rather than structured as disk arrays. A database in this form of memory combines very fast access speed with persistence over reboots and power losses.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1942485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942485", "title": "Christy Fichtner", "text": "Christy Fichtner\n\nChristiane Crane \"Christy\" Fichtner (born October 28, 1962) is an American actress and beauty queen who won Miss USA 1986. In 2003, she participated in \"Who Wants to Marry My Dad?\".\n\nBorn to Mr. and Mrs. Clifton Wales Fichtner, Fichtner attended Greenwich High School in Connecticut and was the girlfriend of Pro Football Hall of Famer Steve Young through junior high and high school. They parted ways and she moved to Dallas, enrolling at Southern Methodist University.\n\nAs a beauty queen, she was crowned Miss Texas USA and Miss USA 1986, becoming the second of five consecutive winners from Texas during the 1980s. Her main competition and eventual first runner-up at Miss USA was actress Halle Berry.\n\nAt the 1986 Miss Universe pageant held in July 1986 in Panama City, Panama, Fichtner placed first in the preliminary competition, third in semifinal interview, first in swimsuit and second in evening gown, which allowed her to advance as one of the Top 5 finalists of the competition, finishing her participation in Miss Universe 1986 as first runner-up to eventual winner, Bárbara Palacios Teyde of Venezuela.\n\nIn 2003, she starred in the reality television show \"Who Wants to Marry My Dad?,\" where she was the runner-up.\n\nAfter Hurricane Wilma damaged Cancún and its infrastructure in 2005, Fichtner, a frequent traveler to the area, revisited the tourist location in an effort to promote tourism: \"The Cancún we love needs to be visited by Texans in order to return to what it once was.\"\n\nA longtime Dallasite, Fichtner married Dallas dentist Gary E. Alhadef in October 1988, with whom she has 3 sons: Blake Clifton, Steven Walker and Corbin Reed. They later divorced.\n\n"}
{"id": "1942492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942492", "title": "University of Navarra", "text": "University of Navarra\n\nThe University of Navarra is a private not-for-profit university located on the southeast border of Pamplona, Spain. It was founded in 1952 by St. Josemaría Escrivá de Balaguer, the founder of Opus Dei, as a corporate work of the apostolate of Opus Dei. The University of Navarra has consistently been ranked as the best private university in Spain.\n\nThrough its six campuses (Pamplona, San Sebastián, Madrid, Barcelona, Munich and New York City), the University confers 35 official degrees, 13 dual degrees and more than 38 master's programs in 14 faculties, 2 university schools, 17 institutes, its graduate business school, IESE (\"Instituto de Estudios Superiores de la Empresa\"; in English: \"International Graduate School of Management\" or \"Institute of Higher Business Studies\"), ISSA (\"Instituto Superior de Secretariado y Administracion\"; in English: Superior Institute of Secretarial and Administrative Studies), and other centers and institutions.\n\nThe university also runs a teaching hospital, CUN, where 2,045 qualified professionals handle more than 100,000 patients each year, and a medical center research, CIMA, that focuses on four main areas: Oncology, Neuroscience, Cardiovascular Sciences, and Gene Therapy and Hepatology.\n\nThe institution was founded as the \"Estudio General de Navarra\" on 17 October 1952 with the encouragement of Josemaría Escrivá. It began as a School of Law with 48 students and eight professors, under the direction of Ismael Sánchez Bella. The founder described the ideals he wanted to transmit in the university:\n\nAfter the foundation of the Faculty of Philosophy in 1955 and the Business School, IESE, in 1958, the \"Estudio General de Navarra\" was established as a university by The Holy See on 6 August 1960, and Escrivá was designated as the Great Chancellor. The university received an official accreditation from the Spanish State, on 8, September 1962.\n\nThe University has a total of 11,180 students (1,758 international); 8,636 whom are pursuing a bachelor's degree, 1,581 of whom are master's degree students, and 963 PhD students.\n\nIn addition, it has agreements with other universities, including the University of Washington (USA), the University of Hong Kong (Hong Kong) and the University of Edinburgh (UK).\n\nMost of the facilities and centers are located in Pamplona, with the exception of IESE Business School, which is based in Barcelona, Madrid, Munich and New York; and the School of Engineering, Tecnun, which is located in Donostia-San Sebastián.\n\nIn January 2015, the Museum of the University of Navarra was inaugurated by King Felipe VI and houses a collection donated to the university by María Josefa Huarte Beaumont. This collection, regarded as one of the greatest collections of contemporary art in Spain, includes works by Pablo Picasso and Wassily Kandinsky, among other artists. The architect in charge of the project was Rafael Moneo.\n\nThe museum also aims to increase interaction between the faculties, centers, departments and schools of the university, and to be a point of reference in the world of contemporary art.\n\nThe university faculties and schools have thousands of researchers in different areas. The 8 centers and 17 institutes, located in the five campuses, carry out their research in the fields of Science and the Humanities, as well as the University Clinic of Navarra, the Center for Applied Medical Research and the Institute of Society and Culture.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1942496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942496", "title": "Cosford, Shropshire", "text": "Cosford, Shropshire\n\nCosford is a village in Shropshire, England. It is located on the A41 road, which is itself just south of junction 3 on the M54 motorway. The village is very small and is mostly made up of dwellings that house Royal Air Force personnel who work at the adjacent RAF Cosford.\n\nBrewer's Dictionary of Britain & Ireland suggests that the name originates from the Old English of \"Cost\", which means \"Excellent\" (Ford). It lies between the town of Shifnal and the large village of Albrighton, in the parish of Donington. It has a railway station on the Wolverhampton to Shrewsbury Line. At the 2011 Census, Cosford was listed as part of a Shifnal ward.\n\nCosford Grange and Cosford Mill, the sites of which were both located on Albrighton Brook, are now quite remote from the village of Cosford in terms of access because the expansion of the airfield required land from the formation of Worcester Road (which used to connect the A41 and the A464 in a north/south direction). Also on the A464, is Cosford Pool, created to help power the mill and Cosford Pumping Station, built by the Wolverhampton Corporation in 1857. The listed buildings of the pumping station are still there and operated by Severn Trent Water.\n\nCosford Brook runs from where Ruckley and Neachley Brooks meet just west of RAF Cosford. This is the local name as it remains Ruckley Brook and upon reaching Cosford Bridge on the A464 it becomes the River Worfe.\n\nThe village is dominated by RAF Cosford, which is home to the Royal Air Force Museum Cosford, a major visitor attraction and heritage centre. The base itself is built on former farmland, with the outdoor athletics arena being on the site of Sydnal Farm's buildings. The village (and RAF Base) is split into two by the A41 road which runs from London to Birkenhead. The A41 has a junction with the M54 motorway just north of Cosford.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1942497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942497", "title": "Vibronic coupling", "text": "Vibronic coupling\n\nVibronic coupling (also called nonadiabatic coupling or derivative coupling) in a molecule involves the interaction between electronic and nuclear vibrational motion. The term \"vibronic\" originates from the combination of the terms \"vibrational\" and \"electronic\", denoting the idea that in a molecule, vibrational and electronic interactions are interrelated and influence each other. The magnitude of vibronic coupling reflects the degree of such interrelation.\n\nIn theoretical chemistry, the vibronic coupling is neglected within the Born–Oppenheimer approximation. Vibronic couplings are crucial to the understanding of nonadiabatic processes, especially near points of conical intersections. The direct calculation of vibronic couplings is not common due to difficulties associated with its evaluation.\n\nVibronic coupling describes the mixing of different electronic states as a result of small vibrations.\n\nThe evaluation of vibronic coupling often involve complex mathematical treatment.\n\nThe form of vibronic coupling is essentially the derivative of the wave function. Each component of the vibronic coupling vector can be calculated with numerical differentiation methods using wave functions at displaced geometries. This is the procedure used in MOLPRO.\n\nFirst order accuracy can be achieved with forward difference formula:\n\nSecond order accuracy can be achieved with central difference formula:\n\nHere, formula_4 is a unit vector along direction formula_5. formula_6 is the transition density between the two electronic states.\n\nEvaluation of electronic wave functions for both electronic states are required at N displacement geometries for first order accuracy and 2*N displacements to achieve second order accuracy, where N is the number of nuclear degrees of freedom. This can be extremely computationally demanding for large molecules.\n\nAs with other numerical differentiation method, the evaluation of nonadiabatic coupling vector with this method is numerically unstable, limiting the accuracy of the result. Moreover, the calculation of the two transition densities in the numerator are not straightforward. The wave functions of both electronic states are expanded with Slater determinants or Configuration state functions (CSF). The contribution from the change of CSF basis is too demanding to evaluate using numerical method, and is usually ignored by employing an approximate diabatic CSF basis. This will also cause further inaccuracy of the calculated coupling vector, although this error is usually tolerable.\n\nEvaluating derivative couplings with analytic gradient methods has the advantage of high accuracy and very low cost, usually much cheaper than one single point calculation. This means an acceleration factor of 2N. However, the process involves intense mathematical treatment and programming. As a result, few programs have currently implemented analytic evaluation of vibronic couplings. Details about this method can be found in ref. For the implementation for SA-MCSCF and MRCI in COLUMBUS, please see ref.\n\nVibronic coupling is large in the case of two adiabatic potential energy surfaces coming close to each other (that is, when the energy gap between them is of the order of magnitude of one oscillation quantum). This happens in the neighbourhood of an avoided crossing of potential energy surfaces corresponding to distinct electronic states of the same spin symmetry. At the vicinity of conical intersections, where the potential energy surfaces of the same spin symmetry cross, the magnitude of vibronic coupling approaches infinity. In either case the adiabatic or Born–Oppenheimer approximation fails and vibronic couplings have to be taken into account.\n\nThe large magnitude of vibronic coupling near avoided crossings and conical intersections allows wave functions to propagate from one adiabatic potential energy surface to another, giving rise to nonadiabatic phenomena such as radiationless decay. The singularity of vibronic coupling at conical intersections is responsible for the existence of Geometric phase, which was discovered by Longuet-Higgins in this context.\n\nAlthough crucial to the understanding of nonadiabatic processes, direct evaluation of vibronic couplings has been very limited.\n\nEvaluation of vibronic couplings is often associated with severe difficulties in mathematical formulation and program implementations. As a result, the algorithms to evaluate vibronic couplings are not yet implemented in many quantum chemistry program suites.\n\nThe evaluation of vibronic couplings also requires correct description of at least two electronic states in regions where they are strongly coupled. This requires the use of multi-reference methods such as MCSCF and MRCI, which are computationally demanding and delicate quantum-chemical methods. This is further complicated by the fact that definition of vibronic couplings requires electronic wave functions. Unfortunately, wave function based methods are usually too expensive for larger systems and popular methods for larger systems such as density functional theory and molecular mechanics cannot generate wave function information. \nAs a result, direct evaluation of vibronic couplings are mostly limited to very small molecules. The magnitude of vibronic coupling is often introduced as an empirical parameter determined by reproducing experimental data.\n\nAlternatively, one can avoid explicit use of derivative couplings by switch from the adiabatic to the diabatic representation of the potential energy surfaces. Although rigorous validation of a diabatic representation requires knowledge of vibronic coupling, it is often possible to construct such diabatic representations by referencing the continuity of physical quantities such as dipole moment, charge distribution or orbital occupations. However, such construction requires detailed knowledge of a molecular system and introduces significant arbitrariness. Diabatic representations constructed with different method can yield different results and the reliability of the result relies on the discretion of the researcher.\n\nPerhaps the earliest examples of the importance of vibronic coupling were found during the 1930s. In 1934 Renner wrote about the vibronic coupling in an electronically excited Π-state in CO. Calculations of the lower excited levels of benzene by Sklar in 1937 (with the valence bond method) and later in 1938 by Goeppert-Mayer and Sklar (with the molecular orbital method) demonstrated a correspondence between the theoretical predictions and experimental results of the benzene spectrum. The benzene spectrum was the first qualitative computation of the efficiencies of various vibrations at inducing intensity absorption.\n\n"}
{"id": "1942500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942500", "title": "The Race (Worldwar)", "text": "The Race (Worldwar)\n\nThe Race refers to the fictional alien invaders of Harry Turtledove's \"Worldwar\" tetralogy, \"Colonization\" trilogy and \"Homeward Bound\". The aliens, a reptilian species with an extremely long-lived and ponderous species history, call their planet \"Home\", and style themselves as \"The Race.\"\n\nThe Race's homeworld, Tau Ceti II (known to The Race simply as \"Home\") revolves around a class II Secchi class star. Its elliptical orbit is half as long as Earth's, and its climate is much hotter and drier. Its oceans are very small and consequently hold few petroleum deposits. Animal inhabitants on the planet include a predator which hunts in a manner similar to the Trapdoor spider and pterosaur-like creatures.\n\nApparently evolved from predatory ancestors, members of the Race are physically shorter in height than humans and have numerous lizard-like traits. Their skin is brown and scaly, often decorated with body paint which becomes more elaborate in higher ranking individuals. Their eyes are segmented like a chameleon's and have nictitating membranes, an adaptation to the desert climate of their homeworld. They have bifurcated tongues and vestigial tail stumps. They have no tear ducts. Though they have a characteristic reptilian dislike of low temperatures, they are warm blooded as shown by their breath fogging in Earth's winter. Their wrist bones pivot off one bone rather than two, they have two bones in their upper arms and one in their lower arms (the opposite of humans), and their ribcages are described as resembling latticework. Though primarily carnivorous, as shown by their specialized teeth, the Race can process vegetation. They can also drink and process alcoholic beverages. They have a revulsion to eating eggs, due to the similarities to their own life cycle.\nGinger has effects on the Race similar to those of cocaine on humans and also sends females into oestrus.\n\nMembers of The Race are seasonal breeders, and reproduce once a year at a specific time when females enter oestrus. The breeding season is driven by females entering oestrus, and giving off pheromones which in turn send males into heat. In the absence of females, males will never go into heat on their own. \n\nThere is no monogamy, and males play no part in the raising of young. Hatchlings are born with an egg tooth, and are essentially miniature versions of the adults. They do not vocalise as frequently as human children unless urged to do so, a defence mechanism against predators. Unlike human babies who crave physical contact, Race hatchlings instinctively avoid anything larger than themselves. At the age of 3 months, Race hatchlings become predatory in nature and have to be taught not to attack their own kind. Due to their considerably greater physiological development and self-reliance at birth, cases of surviving feral children are much more common in the history of The Race than in that of humans.\n\nDue to their seasonal breeding cycle, the Race does not form nuclear family units the way humans do. Given that breeding is just a biological imperative during mating season, they also don't form bonds of romantic love between males and females, so human literature and art about romantic love strikes them as perverse. They are still quite capable of loyalty and affection, but in the Race bonds of friendship are as strong as romantic or family bonds in humans. The result of this is that generational cohorts in the Race are much more internally unified, and much more opposed to other generations, than in humans. Younger and older generations don't get along very well, because they have no parent-child bonds, but Race members of the same age group tend to get along very well. One of the greatest and most celebrated works of Race literature - which due to a cosmic coincidence is titled \"Gone With the Wind\" in their language - is about two close friends who are separated and the loss they feel. Outside of the mating season, females are treated no differently than males - except that they do not serve in the military, to avoid disruption during a breeding cycle. \n\nMembers of the Race speculate that the absence of large oceans on their homeworld is one of the reasons why their historical development differs so drastically from Earth's. On Earth, the presence of large oceans impeded the spread of pre-modern empires to different continents. In contrast, ancient empires on the Races homeworld were not impeded by large oceans, so they just kept gradually expanding across the planet, absorbing other smaller empires. Thus the Race's homeworld was politically unified into a single world-state very early in its history. The result is that the Race has very little experience with diplomacy between rival nations on Earth. Further, because the Race was politically unified so long ago, while they do want to conquer other planets to expand their empire, they are actually not very warlike. This is reflected in their language, in which terms for military matters tend to be fairly literal and descriptive, i.e. tanks are \"landcruisers\", airplanes are \"killercraft\", etc. Another result of this lack of large oceans is that the Race has almost no experience with naval warfare, to the point that during the conquest of Earth, they barely considered the possibility that human nations would maintain their supply lines by ocean shipping, or even that they would mount amphibious attacks. Further, the lack of large oceans meant that their homeworld has no significant petroleum deposits, making them very unfamiliar with it as a fuel source: the Race leadership only realized that petroleum refineries are a strategic war target a full six months after the invasion began. Another noted quirk of coming from such a dry planet is that the Race doesn't really have the same conception of a \"continent\" as humans - given that their planet has one big interlinked landmass dotted with lakes or at most small isolated oceans. Race characters consistently describe Earth as having \"two\" \"continents\", referring to the Eurasia-Africa landmass and the combined Americas. They also perceive Australia as a \"big island\", and think that it is too small to be properly deemed a \"continent\".\n\nOne of the major aspects of the Race's society is that technological progress proceeds very slowly, on the scale of thousands of years. Their original unmanned probe that surveyed Earth a thousand years ago found only a medieval civilization of armored knights on horseback, but the Race was astonished that 20th century Earth had reached an industrial technology level, with radios and mechanized warfare. As the attempt to conquer Earth progressed, the Race was also horrified and confused that Earth nations could develop new tank models, from design phase to mass-production, in less than two years.\n\nThe Race speculates that the reason for this vast difference in the rate of technological development is partially historical, partially biological. Because the Race's homeworld didn't have large oceans, it was politically unified very early in its history. In contrast, Earth's large oceans encouraged its political division among rival nation-states. The result is that the Race does not possess the same history of constant, endemic warfare that Earth does. Such warfare fueled technological arms races, benefiting the human nations that were able to develop better weapons as quickly as possible. The biological aspect that the Race considers is that unlike the Race, human society is centered around nuclear families. This in turn led to political organization into clan-groups, and ultimately along territorial lines, fueling the competition between rival nations. In contrast, because the Race doesn't develop nuclear families, competition in the Race is along generational gaps between age groups, not clan groups.\n\nThe Race is governed by a 50,000-year-old imperial dynasty headed by the Ssumaz family. Emperors have exclusive access to a controlled harem of females in order to keep track of the bloodline. Emperors are democratically elected, but the choices are limited to the clutch of the previous ruler. The Empire's policies are fiercely expansionist, due to connotations of manifest destiny. Conquered races have The Race's language imposed upon them and are traditionally not permitted to join The Empire's armed forces. Some private property and freedom of worship is permitted, as long as they do not conflict with The Empire's policies. In Race society, steadiness and stability count so much more than speed that invention is not encouraged. New concepts are introduced to Race society gradually over a period of centuries so as to prevent societal instability.\n\nThe Race is extremely ethnocentric, believing that it benefits conquered species to be united into their empire. Seeing it as a \"White Man's Burden\" of sorts, they honestly believe that their conquests \"civilize\" other planets, ending internal conflict, while their advanced technologies provide medicinal and economic advancement. That being said, there isn't much discrimination against conquered races (once they have been fully integrated), other than that they are not allowed to serve in the military. This extreme ethnocentrism is evident in their very name in their own language: \"\"the\" Race\". Humans tend to nickname them \"Lizards\", which they find somewhat offensive, insisting that they be referred to in-translation as \"the Race\" in human languages.\n\nThe Emperor is elevated to a god-like status in Race society. Members of The Race are taught at birth to lower their eyes in reverence at any evocation of the Emperor in conversation. The Emperor's birthday (known to The Race as \"Hatching Day\") is celebrated once every 6 months (a year for The Race). The Race afterlife consists of eternal servitude to past Emperors. Emperor worship is so deeply ingrained into Race culture that the concept of \"impericide\" is virtually unthinkable.\n\nAs well as their own homeworld, The Race has two subject planets; Epsilon Eridani II and Epsilon Indi I (known as \"Rabotev 2\" and \"Halless 1\" to The Race). Both planets' indigenous dominant lifeforms, the Rabotevs and the Hallessi, are similar to The Race in biology as well as evolutionary pace. Little is revealed of their history before their subjugation to The Empire, other than that the Hallessi had an identical form of government, while the Rabotevs were divided among competing mini-empires. At least one of these races practiced slavery, though it is unspecified which.\n\nWhile generally held to be fully integrated and equal citizens of the Empire, the Race does not allow them to serve in its military, possibly out of fear that if they did they might in future generations get ideas about self-rule. As a result, no Rabotevs or Hallessi came with the Conquest Fleet or Colonization Fleet when they were sent to Earth. The Race's military on Earth didn't try to keep this a secret, but readily spoke to humans of their subject races when asked, and even showed them pictures. The Conquest Fleet mostly spoke of them to point out how they had evolved along similar biological and cultural lines as the Race, and their differences weren't very remarkable when compared to humans. Both races are allowed to move about freely between different worlds of the Empire, with small demographics of both living on Home itself.\n\nThe Rabotevs were the first species conquered by the Race, some 14,000 human years ago. Physically they are slightly taller and skinnier than the Race, making them closer to humans in height (the Race is about chest-high standing next to a human). Their overall body posture is straighter, and they hold their heads more erect on their neck than the Race, but less than a human's. Their snouts are shorter than the Race's. Their scales are colored a dark grey close to black (though not greenish-brown), and are broader and thicker than the Race's scales. Rabotevs have four digits on each hand, including two opposable thumbs (separated by two fingers) which close inward. Similarly, their feet have two large digits pointing forward, and two smaller ones pointing to the rear. Their mouths have sharp, yellow-orange teeth. Probably the most distinguishing characteristic of the Rabotevs (beyond the difference in height, coloration, and finger arrangement) is that their eyes are mounted atop short, muscular stalks, vaguely reminiscent of snails, as opposed to being in eye turrets. The stalks are constantly moving, and at times almost seem to be moving independently of each other.\n\nThe Hallessi (singular \"Halless\") were the second species conquered by the Race, some 5,000 human years ago. Physically they are the same height as the race, though they stand more erect. Their scales are colored bright green. Hallessi have four-digit hands with one thumb and three fingers, which are spidery and delicate. Their feet are wide and flat. Like the Rabotevs, their snouts are shorter than the Race's. Unlike the Race or the Rabotevs, the Hallessi possess external ears, which are long and pointed, and set relatively high on the head. Hallessi eyes are also set on muscular stalks like the Rabotevs. However, their eye stalks are much longer than the Rabotevs' (even more reminiscent of snails), and are fully capable of looking in different directions at the same time.\n\nThe Race, being a slow-evolving species, is more often at peace than in conquest. Turtledove wanted to reflect this in their language by their lack of specific words for all things military. The following is a list of various terms in the language of the Race and their equivalent, as well as other new concepts that the Race has had to learn:\n\nThe Race also have the habit of referring to individual Earth \"not-empires\" in the native language of the Tosevites living there. Their peoples are rendered as simple rewordings of such. For example, Nazi Germany is \"Deutschland\" and its people are the \"Deutsche\", and in comparison, Britain remains \"Britain\" but the British are called \"Britainish\" instead of just \"British\". The Japanese are referred to as \"Nipponese\", a hybrid of Japanese and English (the Japanese refer to themselves as Nihon-jin). The Race was apparently also bewildered at the fact that the people of the United States were called \"Americans\", apparently not knowing that the full name of the country was \"United States \"of America\".\"\n\nLittle is known of The Race's history before the establishment of The Empire. It is known that 75,000 years ago (Earth years, EY), The Race homeworld was circumnavigated by a male of The Race named Sherran, who would later become a folk hero. The Race learned how to harness nuclear energy at roughly the same period. Slavery had been abolished long before the founding of The Empire, though the exact time when this happened is never specified.\n\n50,000 EY ago, the various Race nations unified into a single government headed by The Emperor. The Rabotevs were conquered 14,000 EY ago by Fleetlord Pssafalu, and the Hallessi 9,000 EY later by Fleetlord Hisstan. Due to their superior technology, The Race suffered few losses in their wars of conquest. Memorials on their conquered worlds show that Race casualties numbered in a few dozens on Halless 1, while on Rabotev 2, it was a few hundred.\n\nIn 1141 AD, The Empire sends probes to Earth (or \"Tosev 3\" as it is known to the Race) and spend 800 years preparing for its conquest.\n\nThe Conquest Fleet under Fleetlord Atvar arrives in Tosev 3’s solar system on December 1941, after a 20-year (human years) journey spent in stasis. Upon receiving radio emissions emanating from the planet, it is discovered to The Race's shock that humans have rapidly developed into an industrial society since they were last seen through the probes.\nThe Race commences with military operations in May 1942, detonating several atomic bombs above the Earth's atmosphere in an attempt to disrupt human communications. On the night of May 30, only hours after detonating the bombs, the Race's forces attack human aircraft and ground vehicles in and around designated landing zones. Once the sites are secured, troop ships begin landing and disgorging ground forces. The Race simultaneously establishes bases on every continent except Antarctica. South America and Africa are overrun almost immediately. Landing bases in Florida, Illinois, Idaho, and New York cause widespread panic and chaos in the United States. The Race's forces establish bases in Poland, cutting Nazi Germany off from the bulk of its forces in the Soviet Union and resulting in a massive German retreat westward. The United Kingdom's air forces are battered from alien bases in Spain and France. The Soviet Union must deal with enemy strongholds in the Ukrainian SSR, Outer Mongolia, and Siberia. In the early days of the fighting, only Germany is able to battle the aliens with any measure of success because its economy has been specifically geared toward war. The Race discovers that their orbital atomic detonations had little if any effect on the human militaries because they do not yet possess silicon computer chips. The German battery manages to destroy two of the Race's ships, including the one which carries the bulk of the Conquest Fleet's atomic stockpile. The scattered plutonium is appropriated by German, Soviet and Jewish rebel forces. In an attempt to reduce human resistance, Atvar orders the use of atomic weapons on Washington, D.C. and Berlin, compelling both nations to fight harder and to hasten production of their own atomic weapons.\n\nThe effect of the war on the psyche of the Conquest fleet soldiers is steep. Although they rapidly conquer and hold about half of Earth, they regard it as a dismal failure because the whole of Earth did not fall in days, and because there is still a war being fought at all. The Race view the war much as Americans in the real-world timeline later viewed the Vietnam War: although the Race usually have the upper hand, they are taking staggering (to them) losses due to attrition. Further, the Race have an extremely hierarchical society where authority is never questioned. However, the Race's mounting losses and inability to conquer Earth gradually lead to splits within the ranks of the Fleet officers; disgruntled frontline soldiers in Siberia mutiny against their officers (an unthinkable act in their culture), much as French army units mutinied during World War I, demanding new army leadership that would stop the high attrition they were suffering.\n\nEventually the remaining human superpowers develop the ability to consistently produce their own atomic weapons. Given that the Race's objective was to conquer and colonize Earth, not turn it an uninhabitable radioactive wasteland, they only use their own atomic weapons sparingly, settling into a pattern of only detonating them as a one for one response to each nuclear detonation made by the human powers. The war is ultimately fought to a stalemate, and both sides agree to an armistice when it becomes clear that further conflict with nuclear weapons will lead to mutually assured destruction. At the Treaty of Cairo, the Race recognizes the remaining human superpowers: the United States, Nazi Germany, the USSR, and to a lesser extent the United Kingdom and Japan, as well as their satellite states. The Race continues to hold all of Africa, Spain, Portugal, South America, Central America, Mexico (up to the southern border of the United States), Australia, and all of Asia south of the Soviet Union (including China, India, and the Middle East). Negotiations also allow the Race to keep a strip of Eastern Europe through Poland, as a buffer territory between Nazi Germany and the Soviet Union. Surprisingly, neither side actually wins or loses the invasion: the human powers remain upset that half the planet and two thirds of the human race are left subject to the Race, while the Race's command officers consider it a humiliating failure that they had to settle for a negotiated peace instead of conquering the entire planet.\n\nBoth sides realize that this fragile truce will ultimately be temporary, given that a Colonization fleet is already on its way from Tau Ceti, sent to follow the Conquest Fleet, and it is due to arrive in twenty years.\n\nThe effects of the Conquest could not have been foreseen by either party - least of all the Race, given their ultra-conservative culture. Within months after the start of the Conquest, three human factions (the United States of America, the German Reich, and the Soviet Union) had salvaged nuclear material and produced their own atomic bombs. German and British fighter airplanes were re-designed with jet engines and swept wings for faster flight, in an attempt to at least partially close the gap with supersonic Race killercraft. Several other inventions (mostly military, including the bazooka) and tactics were thus developed years ahead of their times in regular history.\n\nBy the 1960s (during the time of Colonization, when the Race held most of the Southern Hemisphere of Tosev 3), most cars in America ran on hydrogen. Personal computers were used by an increasing number of workers, thanks to advances in electronics from scavenged Race technology. A primitive form of the Internet was growing. Several trips had been taken aboard reusable space shuttles to space and to the Moon and Mars.\n\nThe partial occupation also had a significant effect on culture and society in general. Ginger, discovered to have a narcotic effect on the Race, is widely grown and stored by various governments. Culturally, humans try to take the occupation in stride, e.g. a song by Spike Jones, referring to Jones' song \"Der Fuehrer's Face\" from the real-world timeline:\n\n"}
{"id": "1942503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942503", "title": "White-fronted tern", "text": "White-fronted tern\n\nThe white-fronted tern (\"Sterna striata\") also known as Tara, Sea Swallow, Black-billed Tern, Kahawai Bird, Southern Tern, or Swallow tail, was first described by Johann Friedrich Gmelin in 1789. A medium sized tern that has an all white body including under wing and forked tail, with grey hues that flow over the upper wing. In breeding adults a striking black cap covers the head from forehead to nape, leaving a small white strip across the top of the black beak. \n\nThey are the most abundant tern in New Zealand, observed feeding on shoaling fish along the entire coastline and many of its smaller outlying islands. Breeding occurs October to January on rocky cliffs, offshore islands and along the coast where they will nest on shingle, sand, shell or rock. Flocks can have hundreds of breeding pairs that will nest in close proximity to one another. Large numbers of juveniles and some adults migrate to the south-east coast of Australia and parts of Tasmania in the Autumn, with small numbers establishing breeding colonies on Flinders and Cape Barren Islands in the Bass Strait. \n\nDue to introduced mammalian predators into New Zealand such as ferrets and stoats, the white-fronted tern has recently been given the New Zealand national conservation status of at risk/in decline.\n\n White-fronted terns are described as an average-sized bird, their dimensions are in length, with a wingspan that is between and weighing on average . Females are marginally smaller, but it is difficult to determine when observing them in the wild.\n\nBreaking down their monochromatic colouring, the white-fronted terns lightest features are its all-white body, tail and underwing. With their upper wings taking on a light silvery grey hue. Through the breeding season there can be a faint pink colouration on the breast, but it is not always visible. The darkest features consist of their beak, black cap, eyes, feet and the shadowing on the outermost edge of the wingtips. The long ebony like beak is slender and comes to a sharp point that dulls in colour at the tip. It meets at a head covered with a jet-black cap that varies in distance from the crown to the beak, while never joining leaving a white band across the lower forehead. The cap continues over the crown and finishes at the nape, inky black round eyes sit within the cap. The legs are stumpy with a deep burgundy black tone. A defining feature of the white-fronted tern is their forked tail, that is recognisable when in flight and commonly draw comparisons with a swallow's tail. In the breeding season, the outermost feathers of the tail lengthen, exaggerating the already profoundly forked tail. \n\nThe black cap of non-breeding adults' retreats towards the top of the forehead and above the eyes, while at the same time losing some of its intensity. Immature white-fronted terns appear similar but have speckles of white through the cap. Along with slight colouration through the wings and tail, which appear as a brownish cream. \nWhile the juvenile's plumage makes them very pronounced with flickers of light to dark greys and warm milky browns in the upper wing, back, and mantle. The cap is incomplete and mottled while having dark black markings at front and back of eyes. \nNew Zealand and Australia. \nJuveniles will occasionally migrate across to south-east Australia and the Northern parts of Tasmania. Breeding populations in Australia are only observed in the Bass Strait, on Flinders and Cape Barren Islands. \n\nWhite-fronted terns are the most abundant tern to inhabit New Zealand and live along the entire coastline. In the North Island, there are significant populations from Auckland to Bay of Plenty including the Coromandel Peninsula and they are prevalent along the coast from Wellington, up towards Manawatu. While in the South Island, they are a familiar sight in Marlborough sounds and along the eastern coast into Canterbury, Otago and Southland where they can be seen year-round. Stewart Island also has flocks and breeding pairs throughout the year. Apart from the main coastline of New Zealand they also populate many of the smaller islands, with large numbers of breeding pairs observed on both Chatham and Auckland Islands. They seldom head inland, but there have been recordings of them in the Canterbury area, where they travel up the large braided rivers to feed and nest.\n\n White-fronted terns can be found in a variety of coastal habitats. With large flocks preferring coastal waters, harbours, bays and estuaries where they are content to live on either sand, shell or shingle ground. Occasionally living on the stony banks of Canterbury's braided rivers.\nNot confined to just main coastal areas, white-fronted tern frequent coastal cliffs, offshore rock-stacks and small islands.\nAnother area where white-fronted tern can inhabit, are human-made structures. As in Tauranga Harbour, breeding pairs have taken up residence on old and unused concrete support structures.\n\nThe courtship between white-fronted terns begins in early October when the warmth of spring has arrived and can continue into January, with individuals constantly arriving at various breeding grounds. Individual males will fly in from sea with a fish delicately held in its beak; they fly above groups of females and attempt to gain their attention by calling to them. The male may land and strut around with head and fish held high to garner more attention from potential mates and there may be a suggestive approach by female/s to have the fish fed to them. But at this point, the male will swiftly take flight closely followed by one or more of his potential mates. The spectacle continues until there remains only one follower. The pair will land together, the male may offer the fish to the female in acceptance of courtship, or he may disapprove of the female and have the fish for himself. If accepted, the partnership begins. They take to the air together following one another in a magnificent display of flight, to signify their courtship together. White-fronted tern are monogamous, so will stay together for the entire breeding season.\n\nIn a short time after courtship, the pair will choose a spot for their nest. No real effort goes into building their nests, it can be directly onto the natural ground or rocky area. It can already have a nest-like shape to it, but sometimes small stones can be brought in to furnish the bottom of the hollows. Nests are tightly packed together, sometimes with less than a meter between them. When in large flocks they can be amongst hundreds of other nests. Flocks are synchronised when laying, with large numbers laying on the same day. Some variations occur and are due to the age of the adults, with older birds laying earlier in the season. They will lay 1–2 eggs and in some rare occasions, 3. The brown speckled eggs vary in pale base colour, that can range from green, blue to browns. The size of the egg/s is on average 46 × 33 mm. They are cared for by both male and female, with an incubation period of approximately 24 days. Adults will continue to join the flock and lay eggs from October–January.\n\nColouring of chicks is highly variable. They can be a combination of greys, browns, whites and blacks with a speckled and fluffy appearance. Chicks will remain in the nest and be brooded by both adults for several days. It can be up to a week before the chicks leave the nest and join others in a crèche, here they have protection with more substantial numbers while adults are away foraging for food. During the season when a chick is lost to a predator or natural event, more clutches will be laid. Adults will likely only raise one chick to fledging, even if there are two eggs laid. Adults will care for their chick for 29-35 days, at which point they become a fledging. Through this time, there is substantial growth with wings and body in similar size to the adults. The young gain the ability to fly during this time, and they will start to venture out with the adults away from the colony; still being fed by the adults for up to 3 months. \n\nAfter the fledgling phase, there is a partial moult where they gain some of their juvenile plumage. This occurs through March-April and continues till June-July. Most juveniles will stay with their flock along New Zealand coastlines with no migration. However, in autumn large numbers of juveniles and some adults migrate across the Tasman Sea, arriving on the south-east coast of Australia. Where they become a common site from May to November before returning to New Zealand. Over the next two years, there will be moulting phases alongside the breeding adults, first pre-breeding (May–August), first post-breeding (January–August) and second pre-breeding (May–August). They are slowly gaining adult plumage through each moult and by the second pre-breeding moult they appear similar to adults. After two years, they have matured enough to breed. However, it is a rare occurrence and is more common for adults to start breeding at 7 years old.\n\nAdults can live beyond 18 years of age with a record of one reaching 26 years. Adults will moult twice a year, post-breeding which occurs over 6 months from January to early August and pre-breeding that starts around May/June, finishing in July/August. Pre-breeding moult is where the adult's black cap will extend further down the forehead, leaving only the small band of white across the top of its beak. \n White-fronted terns are carnivorous, fishing mainly in coastal waters. However, on the odd occasion they will head inland a few kilometres, following rivers and creeks to find food. Their diet is predominantly smaller fish such as smelt and pilchards while also including larval fish. Their preference when feeding at sea is for shoaling fish, that are being forced to the surface in large groups by kahawai and kingfish. When feeding, they will dive from 3 to 10 m above the surface into the shoal of fish, just entering the water in a very shallow dive. They can feed like this off the coast in huge flocks that are made up of hundreds to thousands of birds. They will feed alongside other birds such as gannets, shearwaters and gulls. When diving for fish, they are highly efficient. Their forked tails and adept flying skills allow for great movement above the water surface.\n\nAs of 2016, the conservation status of white-fronted tern is at risk/in decline. Even with a large population, there is a predicted decline in the coming years. Numbers are falling due to predation by several introduced mammalian species. Adults are attacked and killed by cats, mustelids, ferrets and stoats. These same predators will also target the eggs and chicks, while rats and hedgehogs put further pressure on white-fronted tern by going for eggs and chicks exclusively. Despite living and breeding in groups with large numbers that are tightly packed together, it seldom offers them any extra protection from the intruding attackers.\n\nRed-billed gulls and black-backed gulls are the only native species that will prey on white-fronted tern, though they only go for eggs and chicks. They often nest near the white-fronted tern, which may be a contributing factor for this behaviour. Skuas are also well known to attack them in the air as they return from the sea with fish. They will intimidate them while flying until they drop the fish and catch it before losing it to the sea.\nA recent audit published by the Department of Conservation has given \"S. striata\" a New Zealand national conservation status of \"At risk, declining\". While also gaining the regional conservation status of \"Regionally Endangered\" for the Wellington region.\nA very dull \"crek\" is used in courtship when the male is flying above groups, individuals may respond with the same noise. When descending upon intruders, they will let out a continuous \"keark\". Generally calling between individuals is a high-pitched \"siet\" used frequently during flight, it will be repeated over and over in particular intervals.\n\nWhite-fronted terns have a reputation for being difficult to monitor and study due to their unpredictable nature. It becomes very apparent in the breeding season, as white-fronted terns seldom return to the same breeding sites year after year. Making it difficult for a clear indication of numbers and breeding results.\n\nThe species is closely related to the Common tern (\"Sterna hirundo\"), Roseate tern (\"Sterna dougallii\"), Black-naped tern (\"Sterna sumatrana\"), South American tern (\"Sterna hirundinacea\"), Antarctic tern (\"Sterna vittata\") and Arctic tern (\"Sterna paradisaea\").\n"}
{"id": "1942504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942504", "title": "Cosford, Warwickshire", "text": "Cosford, Warwickshire\n\nCosford is a small hamlet and civil parish in the Rugby borough of Warwickshire, England. it is located 2,1/2 miles north of Rugby, just west of the River Swift, a tributary of the River Avon, and slightly south of the M6 Motorway. It has been a civil parish since 1866. It was formerly part of the parish of Newbold-on-Avon.\n\nCosford is a shrunken medieval village and earthworks are still visible of the former buildings, which have been listed as a scheduled monument since 1970. The village was not mentioned specifically in the Domesday Book. A chapel is believed to have existed in the village, but its exact location is not known. The still existing hamlet of Cosford consists of a single street with a few houses and farmsteads around Cosford Hall Farm.\n"}
{"id": "1942519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942519", "title": "Equestrian at the 2004 Summer Olympics – Team jumping", "text": "Equestrian at the 2004 Summer Olympics – Team jumping\n\nThe individual jumping event, part of the equestrian program at the 2004 Summer Olympics, was held from 22 August to 27 August 2004 in the Olympic Equestrian Centre on the outskirts of Markopoulo in the Attica region of Greece. Like all other equestrian events, the jumping competition was mixed gender, with both male and female athletes competing in the same division.\n"}
{"id": "1942520", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942520", "title": "Rokushō", "text": "Rokushō\n\nRokushō is used to treat a number of metals, including raw natural copper, which holds impurities, purified copper, and copper alloy mixes with two to five metals, to produce irogane metals, including: shakudō, an alloy of copper and gold, which becomes black to dark blue-violet; shibuichi, an alloy of fine silver and copper (in a higher percentage than sterling), which turns grey to misty aquamarine or other shades of blue to green; kuromido which becomes dark coppery black.\n\nRokushō was generally used to patinate all types of mokume-gane (\"wood grain metal\") as well.\n\nAlthough other patination agents can be used on these metals, some artisans prefer the rich colors achieved with traditional rokushō in the niiro process.\n\nThese metals are becoming increasingly popular in high-end artistic jewelry, especially in bi-metals (a layer of the alloy fused to another metal such as sterling). Because rokushō has a dramatically different effect on sterling silver than on the alloys typically fused to it in bi-metals, a common technique in art jewelry is to engrave through the alloy layer in a pattern to reveal the silver underneath prior to patination. This provides a rich contrast in color, highlighting the pattern.\n\nThe formulae for rokushō are not published widely or freely, but passed on in the Japanese craft tradition. However, some scholars have analysed samples of the material.\n\nPremixed rokushō can be purchased outside Japan through specialty jewelry suppliers. Additionally, several different formulas have been proposed to replicate the traditional product for those who prefer to make their own:\n\n\nRokusho is not used alone, but mixed with one or more other chemicals. Further, metal to be processed is cleaned in advance of treatment, using a mild acid bath (oxalic or sulfuric acids are frequently used), scrubbing with daikon radish or pumice, and / or a surface abrasive, and often treated after patination also.\n\n"}
{"id": "1942523", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942523", "title": "Architecture of Windows NT", "text": "Architecture of Windows NT\n\nThe architecture of Windows NT, a line of operating systems produced and sold by Microsoft, is a layered design that consists of two main components, user mode and kernel mode. It is a preemptive, reentrant multitasking operating system, which has been designed to work with uniprocessor and symmetrical multiprocessor (SMP)-based computers. To process input/output (I/O) requests, they use packet-driven I/O, which utilizes I/O request packets (IRPs) and asynchronous I/O. Starting with Windows XP, Microsoft began making 64-bit versions of Windows available; before this, there were only 32-bit versions of these operating systems.\n\nPrograms and subsystems in user mode are limited in terms of what system resources they have access to, while the kernel mode has unrestricted access to the system memory and external devices. Kernel mode in Windows NT has full access to the hardware and system resources of the computer. The Windows NT kernel is a hybrid kernel; the architecture comprises a simple kernel, hardware abstraction layer (HAL), drivers, and a range of services (collectively named Executive), which all exist in kernel mode.\n\nUser mode in Windows NT is made of subsystems capable of passing I/O requests to the appropriate kernel mode device drivers by using the I/O manager. The user mode layer of Windows NT is made up of the \"Environment subsystems\", which run applications written for many different types of operating systems, and the \"Integral subsystem\", which operates system-specific functions on behalf of environment subsystems. The kernel mode stops user mode services and applications from accessing critical areas of the operating system that they should not have access to.\n\nThe Executive interfaces, with all the user mode subsystems, deal with I/O, object management, security and process management. The kernel sits between the hardware abstraction layer and the Executive to provide \"multiprocessor synchronization\", thread and interrupt scheduling and dispatching, and trap handling and exception dispatching. The kernel is also responsible for initializing device drivers at bootup. Kernel mode drivers exist in three levels: highest level drivers, intermediate drivers and low-level drivers. Windows Driver Model (WDM) exists in the intermediate layer and was mainly designed to be binary and source compatible between Windows 98 and Windows 2000. The lowest level drivers are either legacy Windows NT device drivers that control a device directly or can be a plug and play (PnP) hardware bus.\n\nUser mode is made up of various system-defined processes and DLLs. \n\nThe interface between user mode applications and operating system kernel functions is called an \"environment subsystem.\" Windows NT can have more than one of these, each implementing a different API set. \nThis mechanism was designed to support applications written for many different types of operating systems. None of the environment subsystems can directly access hardware; access to hardware functions is done by calling into kernel mode routines. \n\nThere are three main environment subsystems: the Win32 subsystem, an OS/2 subsystem and a POSIX subsystem.\n\n\nThe security subsystem deals with security tokens, grants or denies access to user accounts based on resource permissions, handles login requests and initiates login authentication, and determines which system resources need to be audited by Windows NT. It also looks after Active Directory. The workstation service implements the network redirector, which is the client side of Windows file and print sharing; it implements local requests to remote files and printers by \"redirecting\" them to the appropriate servers on the network. Conversely, the server service allows other computers on the network to access file shares and shared printers offered by the local system.\n\nWindows NT kernel mode has full access to the hardware and system resources of the computer and runs code in a protected memory area. It controls access to scheduling, thread prioritization, memory management and the interaction with hardware. The kernel mode stops user mode services and applications from accessing critical areas of the operating system that they should not have access to; user mode processes must ask the kernel mode to perform such operations on their behalf.\n\nWhile the x86 architecture supports four different privilege levels (numbered 0 to 3), only the two extreme privilege levels are used. Usermode programs are run with CPL 3, and the kernel runs with CPL 0. These two levels are often referred to as \"ring 3\" and \"ring 0\", respectively. Such a design decision had been done to achieve code portability to RISC platforms that only support two privilege levels, though this breaks compatibility with OS/2 applications that contain I/O privilege segments that attempt to directly access hardware.\n\nCode running in kernel mode includes: the executive, which is itself made up of many modules that do specific tasks; the kernel, which provides low-level services used by the Executive; the Hardware Abstraction Layer (HAL); and \"kernel drivers\".\n\nThe Windows Executive services make up the low-level kernel-mode portion, and are contained in the file NTOSKRNL.EXE. It deals with I/O, object management, security and process management. These are divided into several \"subsystems\", among which are \"Cache Manager\", \"Configuration Manager\", \"I/O Manager\", \"Local Procedure Call (LPC)\", \"Memory Manager\", \"Object Manager\", \"Process Structure\" and \"Security Reference Monitor (SRM)\". Grouped together, the components can be called \"Executive services\" (internal name \"Ex\"). \"System Services\" (internal name \"Nt\"), i.e., system calls, are implemented at this level, too, except very few that call directly into the kernel layer for better performance.\n\nThe term \"service\" in this context generally refers to a callable routine, or set of callable routines. This is distinct from the concept of a \"service process\", which is a user mode component somewhat analogous to a daemon in Unix-like operating systems.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe kernel sits between the HAL and the Executive and provides multiprocessor synchronization, thread and interrupt scheduling and dispatching, and trap handling and exception dispatching; it is also responsible for initializing device drivers at bootup that are necessary to get the operating system up and running. That is, the kernel performs almost all the tasks of a traditional microkernel; the strict distinction between Executive and Kernel is the most prominent remnant of the original microkernel design, and historical design documentation consistently refers to the kernel component as \"the microkernel\".\n\nThe kernel often interfaces with the process manager. The level of abstraction is such that the kernel never calls into the process manager, only the other way around (save for a handful of corner cases, still never to the point of a functional dependence).\n\nWindows NT uses kernel-mode device drivers to enable it to interact with hardware devices. Each of the drivers has well defined system routines and internal routines that it exports to the rest of the operating system. All devices are seen by user mode code as a file object in the I/O manager, though to the I/O manager itself the devices are seen as device objects, which it defines as either file, device or driver objects. Kernel mode drivers exist in three levels: highest level drivers, intermediate drivers and low level drivers. The highest level drivers, such as file system drivers for FAT and NTFS, rely on intermediate drivers. Intermediate drivers consist of function drivers—or main driver for a device—that are optionally sandwiched between lower and higher level filter drivers. The function driver then relies on a bus driver—or a driver that services a bus controller, adapter, or bridge—which can have an optional bus filter driver that sits between itself and the function driver. Intermediate drivers rely on the lowest level drivers to function. The Windows Driver Model (WDM) exists in the intermediate layer. The lowest level drivers are either legacy Windows NT device drivers that control a device directly or can be a PnP hardware bus. These lower level drivers directly control hardware and do not rely on any other drivers.\n\nThe Windows NT hardware abstraction layer, or HAL, is a layer between the physical hardware of the computer and the rest of the operating system. It was designed to hide differences in hardware and provide a consistent platform on which the kernel is run. The HAL includes hardware-specific code that controls I/O interfaces, interrupt controllers and multiple processors.\n\nHowever, despite its purpose and designated place within the architecture, the HAL isn't a layer that sits entirely below the kernel, the way the kernel sits below the Executive: All known HAL implementations depend in some measure on the kernel, or even the Executive. In practice, this means that kernel and HAL variants come in matching sets that are specifically constructed to work together.\n\nIn particular hardware abstraction does \"not\" involve abstracting the instruction set, which generally falls under the wider concept of portability. Abstracting the instruction set, when necessary (such as for handling the several revisions to the x86 instruction set, or emulating a missing math coprocessor), is performed by the kernel, or via hardware virtualization.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1942524", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942524", "title": "Toyotomi Hidetsugu", "text": "Toyotomi Hidetsugu\n\nHidetsugu was born to Hideyoshi's elder sister with Miyoshi Kazumichi and later adopted by Miyoshi Yoshifusa, his name was Miyoshi Nobuyoshi. He later renamed himself Hashiba Hidetsugu, in honor of his famous uncle: \"Hashiba\" was the Hideyoshi's family name, and \"Hidetsugu\" can be translated as \"next \"Hide\"\".\n\nAfter the Incident at Honnō-ji in 1582, Hidetsugu was given a 400 thousand koku fiefdom in Ōmi Province because he was one of Hideyoshi's few relatives. In his subsequent career as a general, he sustained heavy losses in the Battle of Nagakute against Tokugawa Ieyasu.\n\nHe proved himself in Hideyoshi's Invasion of Shikoku and Siege of Odawara. He also proved a competent manager of the castle town of Ōmihachiman.\n\nA practitioner of the \"shudō\" tradition, Hidetsugu had a number of \"wakashū\". Among these were Yamamoto Tonoma, Yamada Sanjuro, and his most beloved, Fuwano Mansaku (also Bansaku), who gained lasting renown for his beauty of body and spirit.\n\nIn 1590, (Tenshō 18), he was appointed castellan of Kiyosu Castle in Owari Province, where Oda Nobukatsu had once ruled. The following year, Hideyoshi lost his legitimate heir Tsurumatsu (who died before adulthood) and so gave Hidetsugu the position of Imperial Regent. This meant Hidetsugu had to move to Jurakudai in Kyoto, and resulted in a so-called \"dual system of government\" (二元政治) run by Hideyoshi and Hidetsugu, with the assumption that latter would succeed the former after his death. As Hideyoshi was busy handling the invasion of Korea, Hidetsugu acted in his place to handle domestic affairs.\n\nHowever, in 1593, Hideyoshi's concubine, Yodo-dono, gave a birth to a new heir, Hideyori, and the relationship between Hidetsugu and Hideyoshi began to deteriorate. Rumours spread of Hidetsugu committing repeated and unjust murder, earning him the nickname \"life-killing kanpaku\" (殺生関白; sesshō-kanpaku) - although modern historians doubt that these rumours were accurate.\n\nFinally, in 1595, Hidetsugu was accused of plotting a coup and ordered to commit ritual suicide at Mt. Koya. Together with him died his three wakashu, who committed suicide with his assistance.\n\n\"Daimyō\" associated with him were confined and the Jurakudai was destroyed. Controversially, Hideyoshi ordered the execution of Hidetsugu's entire family, including children, wives and mistresses, at Sanjogawara. The harshness and brutality of executing 39 women and children shocked Japanese society and alienated many \"daimyō\" from Toyotomi rule. Combined with the fact that Hidetsugu was the last adult member of the Toyotomi clan besides Hideyoshi himself, the whole incident is often seen to be one of the key causes of the Toyotomis downfall. In a particularly tragic case, Hideyoshi refused to spare the life of Mogami Yoshiaki's 15-year-old daughter, who had only just arrived in Kyoto to become Hidestugu's concubine and had not yet even met her husband-to-be. Her death caused the powerful Mogami clan to zealously support Tokugawa Ieyasu in the Battle of Sekigahara against Toyotomi loyalist forces, five years later.\n\nOnly two daughters of Hidetsugu's children were spared: Kikuhime, one month old, who was adopted by her grandfather's nephew, Gotō Noriyoshi and Daughter who became Sanada Yukimura's concubine. \n\n"}
{"id": "1942529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942529", "title": "Frederick Bedwell", "text": "Frederick Bedwell\n\nLieutenant Commander Frederick Bedwell (1796–1853) was a sailor in the Royal Navy. He participated in the Peninsular War, the American War of 1812, and was a member of the guard that took Napoleon I of France to banishment on Saint Helena. He was a Master's mate on the under Phillip Parker King during King's explorations of Australia from 1818 to 1822.\n"}
{"id": "1942533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942533", "title": "Dewey Redman", "text": "Dewey Redman\n\nWalter Dewey Redman (May 17, 1931 – September 2, 2006) was an American saxophonist who performed free jazz as a bandleader and with Ornette Coleman and Keith Jarrett.\n\nRedman played tenor saxophone, though he occasionally played alto saxophone, the Chinese \"suona\" (which he called a musette), and clarinet. His son is saxophonist Joshua Redman.\n\nRedman was born in Fort Worth, Texas. He attended I.M. Terrell High School, and played in the school band with Ornette Coleman, Prince Lasha, and Charles Moffett. After high school, he briefly enrolled in the electrical engineering program at the Tuskegee Institute in Alabama but became disillusioned with the program and returned home to Texas. In 1953, he earned a bachelor's degree in Industrial Arts from Prairie View Agricultural and Mechanical University. While at Prairie View, he switched from clarinet to alto saxophone, then to tenor. After graduating, he served for two years in the U.S. Army.\n\nAfter his discharge from the Army, Redman began working on a master's degree in education at the University of North Texas. While working on his degree, he taught music to fifth graders in Bastrop, Texas and worked as a freelance saxophonist at night and weekends in Austin, Texas. In 1957, he graduated in Education with a minor in Industrial Arts. While at North Texas, he did not enroll in any music classes.\n\nIn 1959, he moved to San Francisco, resulting in a collaboration with clarinetist Donald Rafael Garrett.\n\nRedman was best known for his 1968-1972 collaboration with saxophonist Ornette Coleman, with whom he had performed in his Fort Worth high school marching band. He also played in pianist Keith Jarrett's American Quartet (1971–1976). Jarret's \"The Survivors' Suite\" was voted Jazz Album of the Year by \"Melody Maker\" in 1978. In the 1970s Redman formed the quartet Old and New Dreams with Don Cherry, Charlie Haden, and Ed Blackwell. They recorded four albums in the period to 1987.\n\nRedman recorded as a sideman with Paul Motian and Pat Metheny. In 1981 he performed at the Woodstock Jazz Festival for the tenth anniversary of the Creative Music Studio. He was the subject of the award-winning documentary film \"Dewey Time\" directed by Daniel Berman (2001).\n\nOn February 19 and 21, 2004, he played tenor saxophone as a special guest with Jazz at Lincoln Center in a concert entitled \"The Music of Ornette Coleman\". Reviewing the performance, Howard Mandell wrote, \"Redman, a veteran of Coleman's bands, played on 'Ramblin' and 'Peace', demonstrating more originality, maturity and conviction than anyone else on the bandstand.\"\n\nRedman died of liver failure in Brooklyn, New York, on September 2, 2006. He is buried at the Calverton National Cemetery in Calverton, Suffolk County, New York.\n\nOn June 25, 2019, \"The New York Times Magazine\" listed Dewey Redman among hundreds of artists whose material was reportedly destroyed in the 2008 Universal fire.\n\n\nWith Old and New Dreams\n\nWith Jon Ballantyne\n\nWith Ed Blackwell\n\nWith Michael Bocian\n\nWith David Bond\n\nWith Cameron Brown\n\nWith Jane Bunnett\n\nWith Don Cherry\n\nWith Ornette Coleman\n\nWith Anthony Cox\n\nWith Charlie Haden's Liberation Music Orchestra\n\nWith Billy Hart\n\nWith Keith Jarrett\n\nWith Leroy Jenkins\n\nWith Pat Metheny\n\nWith Paul Motian\n\nWith Roswell Rudd & The Jazz Composer's Orchestra\n\nWith Clifford Thornton & The Jazz Composers Orchestra\n\nWith Randy Weston\n\nWith Matt Wilson\n\nWith Dane Belany\n\nWith Michel Benita\n\nWith John Menegon (jazz bassist)\n\nGeneral references\n\n\nInline citations\n\n"}
{"id": "1942536", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942536", "title": "Barbara Goodson", "text": "Barbara Goodson\n\nBarbara Dale Goodson (born August 16, 1949) is an American voice actress who has done voice-over work in cartoons and shows. Her best-known role was providing the English dub voice of the main villain Empress Rita Repulsa in the \"Power Rangers\" franchise, starting with \"Mighty Morphin Power Rangers\", and including \"Power Rangers Zeo\", \"\", \"Power Rangers in Space\". Other \"Power Rangers\" characters include Prince Sprocket and Orbus in \"Power Rangers Zeo\", and Mandilok in \"Power Rangers Wild Force\". She also voiced Red Fraggle and Wingnut in Jim Henson's cartoon \"\", Ladyborg in \"Beetleborgs Metallix\". and Mother Talzin on \"\", the last of which she won a Best Actress award from the website Behind The Voice Actors. She voiced in HBO's \"Adventures of Tom Sawyer\" as Tom, \"FLCL\" as Naota. The series \"CloudBread\" in which she is a cast member as Wooley, Ruiz, Grandma and Teacher Ellie was nominated for \"Best Children's Programming\" in 2011 for an \"Annie Award\". She was also awarded an Earphones Award for narrating Blair Clemons in the Time/Warner book \"On A Night Like This\".\n\nGoodson was born in Brooklyn, New York. She grew up in New Jersey and now lives in Santa Monica, California with her husband Bruce Gustafson.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1942539", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942539", "title": "Southern Utah Wilderness Alliance", "text": "Southern Utah Wilderness Alliance\n\nThe Southern Utah Wilderness Alliance (SUWA) is a wilderness preservation organization in the United States based in Salt Lake City, Utah, with field offices in Washington, D.C. and Moab, Utah. The organization formed in 1983 and is a partner in the Utah Wilderness Coalition, a coalition of organizations nationwide that support federal wilderness designation for deserving public lands in Utah.\n\nThe primary campaign of the Southern Utah Wilderness Alliance is to build public support for America's Red Rock Wilderness Act, which was first introduced in Congress in 1989 by Utah Congressman Wayne Owens. The bill has been reintroduced in every session of Congress since. In 1997 the first companion bill was introduced in the United States Senate by Dick Durbin. On October 1, 2009, the bill was discussed in a legislative hearing before the Subcommittee on National Parks, Forests and Public Lands.\n\nBeginning in 2015, SUWA supported the campaign by the Bears Ears Inter-Tribal Coalition seeking the designation of Bears Ears National Monument. SUWA is a plaintiff in two lawsuits challenging President Trump's December 4, 2017 executive order reducing the size of Grand Staircase-Escalante National Monument and Bears Ears National Monument. \n\nSUWA also works through the courts to protect areas in Utah that qualify as Wilderness under the federal Wilderness Act of 1964 from uses that would cause these areas to be disqualified from Wilderness consideration. Such uses include off-road vehicle use, oil and gas development, and mining.\n\nSUWA participated extensively in the creation of the Cedar Mountain Wilderness. This approximately 100,000-acre wilderness area is located roughly fifty miles west of Salt Lake City and was established in January 2006.\n\nSUWA also participated in the Washington County land bill, which designated approximately 256,000 acres of wilderness in southwestern Utah when it passed in 2009. Originally introduced by Senator Bob Bennet in 2006, early versions of the Washington County land bill failed to pass in two congresses due to opposition from SUWA and the Utah Wilderness Coalition.\n\nOn May 8, 2012, SUWA and Anadarko Petroleum Corporation announced an agreement concerning a proposed oil and gas development project in eastern Utah. Part of this agreement included a commitment from the company to avoid development in the proposed White River wilderness and a conservation easement on private lands purchased by the company. This announcement came as part of a signing ceremony for the project attended by Secretary of the Interior Ken Salazar.\n\nOn November 4, 2013, U.S. District Judge Dale Kimball ruled the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) failed to minimize the impacts of motorized use on the land and its resources and to inventory archaeological sites when the BLM issued its Richfield Resource Management Plan in 2008. The Richfield plan covers 2.1 million acres in Sevier, Garfield, Wayne and Piute counties.\n\nOn April 10, 2018, U.S. 7th District Judge Lyle Anderson ruled to dismiss SUWA's complaint in SUWA vs. San Juan County Commission. The Judge went further, questioning the propriety of SUWA's filing as a mechanism of “intimidation” directed at San Juan County Commission or others, and were directed to file a memorandum addressing this with the Court by May 1. SUWA appealed Judge Anderson's ruling to the Utah Supreme Court, with the Society of Professional Journalists and Utah news outlets KSTU (Fox13) and The Deseret News filing friend of the court briefs in support of SUWA's appeal, arguing that punishing SUWA for bringing the suit sets a dangerous precedent for the ability of Utahns to challenge local government. \n\nSUWA played a key role in the passage of the Emery County Public Land Management Act, which was signed into law by President Trump as part of the John D. Dingell, Jr. Conservation, Management, and Recreation Act on March 12, 2019. SUWA had worked to improve earlier versions of the bill that had failed to protect parts of Labyrinth Canyon and Muddy Creek. Following a deal between Senator Dick Durbin and Senator Orrin Hatch, the bill ultimately protected 663,000 acres of wilderness in Utah, making it the largest wilderness bill passed in the United States in a decade. \n\n"}
{"id": "1942549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942549", "title": "Gaither Report", "text": "Gaither Report\n\nThe Gaither committee, named after its first chairman Rowan Gaither, was tasked by President Eisenhower with creating a strategy that would strengthen the US military defensive systems and better prepare the US for a nuclear attack. The result was the Gaither Report, a document that detailed the inadequacies of US technology, among other things, and called for an urgent strengthening of US missile technology and US offensive and defensive military capabilities. The report also called for a fifty percent increase in US military spending and a redesign of the US Defense Department. The committee presented the Gaither Report to President Eisenhower on November 7, 1957. \n\nWhile the president had asked for an evaluation of fallout and blast shelters, the opening page of the report stated that their purpose was to “form a broadbrush opinion of the relative value of various active and passive measures to protect the civilian populations in case of nuclear attack and its aftermath.” This look at active protective measures relegated shelters to a secondary position in a report now concentrated on nuclear deterrence. The rationale for this can be found in their assumption that the Soviet Union, with its expedient development of military technology, had already exceeded the technical achievements made by the U.S. in ICBM research.\n\n"}
{"id": "1942553", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942553", "title": "Radio Televisyen Malaysia", "text": "Radio Televisyen Malaysia\n\nRadio Televisyen Malaysia (abbreviated: RTM) is a Malaysian public broadcaster. It runs 5 television channels and 36 radio stations in Malaysia, based in Kuala Lumpur. RTM is the first broadcaster in Malaysia.\n\nRTM celebrated its 70th anniversary on 1 April 2016.\n\nRTM started broadcasting radio on 1 April 1946, and television on 28 December 1963. The first two radio stations are Radio Malaya (in Malay) and The Blue Network (in English). The transmitters were located first in Singapore and later in Kuala Lumpur (opened in 1950).\n\nWith the independence of Malaya on 31 August 1957 Radio Malaya was split into two separate stations; the original studios in Singapore was taken over by a new station called Radio Singapura and Radio Malaya moved to Kuala Lumpur going on air from the new location on 1 January 1959. It would be later renamed Radio Malaysia on 16 September 1963 with the transmissions beginning with its trademark words \"Inilah Radio Malaysia\" (This is Radio Malaysia) on the day the Malaysia of today was born. Television services under the name Malaysia Televisyen or Malaysia Television (Malaysia TV) started on 28 December 1963 in time for the national New Year celebrations in Kuala Lumpur and regional telecasts in the Klang Valley in Selangor state, with its first studios being located in Jalan Ampang. The then 10-month-old Television Singapura (launched on 16 February 1963) became part of Malaysia Televisyen as its state station for Singapore viewers, a role served until 1965, when Singapore became independent.\n\nRadio and TV operations merged in 1968 as the new Angkasapuri headquarters was inaugurated. Thus Radio Malaysia and Televisyen Malaysia's identities merged to become Radio Televisyen Malaysia (\"Radio Television Malaysia, RTM\") in 1969. A second TV station also opened in the same year as its rebranding. In 1971 Radio Malaysia became the first radio station to broadcast 24 hours a day, nationwide, thus becoming Rangkaian Nasional (\"National Network\") in the process.\n\nRTM began broadcasting in colour since 1978 in Peninsular Malaysia and 1980 in Sabah and Sarawak.\n\nBetween 1972 and 1999, RTM shared time with TV Pendidikan, the national education channel, in the daytime. TV1 introduced daytime transmissions in 1994 thus resulting in TV Pendidikan ceased broadcasting on TV1, while TV2 introduced daytime transmissions in 2000. TV1 broadcast overnight many times since the early 1990s, but daily 24-hour transmissions did not come until 2003, which was later cancelled. Permanent 24-hour broadcasting was introduced in 2006 on TV2, and 2012 on TV1.\n\nRTM offers six national FM radio channels.\n\n\nRTM offers five channels, including vernacular channels in Malaysia. \nMyKlik is an OTT service. It cover viewers across multiple devices – computers, tablets, smartphones.\n\nStarHub TV:\n\n"}
{"id": "1942554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942554", "title": "Royal family order", "text": "Royal family order\n\nA royal family order is a decoration conferred by the head of a royal family to their female relations. Such an order is considered more of a personal memento than a state decoration, although it may be worn during official state occasions.\n\nThe tradition is practiced in the royal families of the Commonwealth Realms, Norway, Sweden, Denmark, and Tonga.\n\nThe badge of a royal family order consists of a portrait of the sovereign set in diamonds, which is suspended from a ribbon. In the United Kingdom, the colour of the ribbon changes with each reign, the only kingdom that has this trait. On the back of the portrait frame is an engraving with the sovereign's monogram. A hidden pin attaches it to the wearer's clothes.\n\n\"Kungens miniatyrporträtt\" (literally the \"King's miniature portrait\") is a royal decoration unofficially given to female members of the Swedish royal family. It is similar to the Royal Family Orders of other European monarchies, although the Swedish royal court refers to it as \"The King's portrait\".\n\nThe earliest known Swedish Decoration is that of King Oscar II. At that time, Decorations did not have to be attached to the Seraphim blue ribbon that is the case today. As there are no earlier records of royal family decorations in Sweden, it might be assumed that the decorations were not introduced in Sweden until the reign of Oscar II. Queen Sophia started \"Sophiahemmet\", a Red Cross nurse training program. At the graduation of the nurses, she presented a miniature portrait of the king on a white ribbon with a red cross. On the back was DSF inscribed in gold enamel on blue background. In the 1900s Gustav V and his wife Victoria made a special form of the order with both of them in the portrait as a gift to their friend Countess Anna Brahe (born Anna Nordenfalk) when she visited them. Currently recipients of the order wear it as part of their formal dress, often when their male counterparts wear medals.\n\nThe decoration currently consists of an oval portrait of King Carl XVI Gustaf half length. There are different versions of the portrait of the King, where he is dressed in admiral's uniform or simply formal wear with either the Seraphim band or chain. The portrait is framed by brilliant-cut diamonds and a brilliant bow at the portrait above page. The portrait is attached to a bow in Seraphim light blue ribbon and is held to the person's attire with a pin that is not seen. Different designs of the frame exist: some are more decorated than others.\n\n\n\n\nAfter the banishment of the adulterous Queen Caroline Mathilde on 17 January 1772 the Royal Danish Court needed a new decoration to replace the Order of Matilde. King Christian VII of Denmark founded this order on 21 October 1774 as a new decoration that was solely meant for the Danish Royal Family. It was awarded to gentlemen and ladies. The men wore the insignia detached from a ribbon on the left side of the breast. The ladies wore the same insignia on a bow of the same ribbon on their left shoulder.\n\nAfter the death of Queen-Dowager Juliana Maria in 1796 the order fell into disuse.\nIn 1912 when King Christian X ascended to the throne this order was restored keeping to the present time.\n\n\n\nThe first Royal Family Order was issued during and after the regency of King George IV of the United Kingdom. Prior to 1820, he started the practice of presenting the badge of the order to ladies and gentlemen of the Court, particularly female members of the Royal family. An ornate frame of diamond oak leaves and acorns surrounded his portrait, suspended from a white silk bow which varied for men and women. As a girl, Princess Alexandrina of Kent (later Queen Victoria) received this badge from her uncle.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1942564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942564", "title": "Eight-Nation Alliance", "text": "Eight-Nation Alliance\n\nThe Eight-Nation Alliance was a multi-national military coalition set up in 1900. The forces consisted of approximately 45,000 troops from eight nations of the Germany, Japan, Russia, Britain, France, the United States, Italy and Austria-Hungary. When the international legations in Beijing were besieged by Boxer rebels supported by the Qing government, the coalition dispatched their armed forces, in the name of humanitarian intervention, to defend their respective nations' citizens, as well as a number of Chinese Christians who had taken shelter in the legations. The incident ended with a coalition victory and the signing of the Boxer Protocol. Members of the alliance remained in China and proceeded to loot and pillage Beijing and other cities for over a year.\n\nThe Boxers, a peasant movement, had attacked and killed foreign missionaries, nationals and Chinese Christians across northern China in 1899 and 1900. The Qing government and Imperial Army supported the Boxers and under the Manchu general Ronglu, besieged foreign diplomats and civilians taking refuge in the Legation Quarter in Beijing.\n\nThe diplomatic compound was under siege by the Wuwei Rear Division of the Chinese army and some Boxers (\"Yihetuan\"), for 55 days, from 20 June to 14 August 1900. A total of 473 foreign civilians, 409 soldiers from eight countries, and about 3,000 Chinese Christians took refuge in the Legation Quarter. Under the command of the British minister to China, Claude Maxwell MacDonald, the legation staff and security personnel defended the compound with small arms and one old muzzle-loaded cannon discovered and unearthed by Chinese Christians, who turned it over to the Allies; it was nicknamed the \"International Gun\" because the barrel was British, the carriage Italian, the shells Russian, and the crew American.\n\nAlso under siege in Beijing was the North Cathedral, the Beitang of the Catholic Church. The Beitang was defended by 43 French and Italian soldiers, 33 foreign Catholic priests and nuns, and about 3,200 Chinese Catholics. The defenders suffered heavy casualties from lack of food and Chinese mines that exploded in tunnels dug beneath the compound.\n\nOn 14 August 1900, the eight-nation allied force marched to Beijing from Tianjin to relieve the Legation Quarter siege.\n\nAustria-Hungary had a single cruiser on station at the beginning of the rebellion, based at the Russian concession of Port Arthur. Detachments of sailors from the \"Zenta\" were the only Austro-Hungarian forces to see action. Some were involved in defending the legations under siege while another detachment was involved in the rescue attempts. In June, the Austro-Hungarians helped hold the Tianjin railway against Boxer forces and also fired upon several armed junks on the Hai River near Tong-Tcheou in Peking. They also took part in the seizure of the Taku Forts commanding the approaches to Tianjin, and the boarding and capture of four Chinese destroyers by Capt. Roger Keyes of .\n\nThe Austro-Hungarian Navy also sent the cruisers , , and a company of marines to China. Arriving in September, however, they were too late as most of the fighting had ended and the legations relieved. The cruisers together with the \"Zenta\" were involved in shelling and capture of several Chinese forts. The Austro-Hungarians suffered minimal casualties during the rebellion. After the Boxer uprising, a cruiser was maintained permanently on the Chinese coast and a detachment of marines was deployed at the Austro-Hungarian embassy in Peking (Beijing). Lieutenant Georg Ludwig von Trapp, made famous in the 1959 musical \"The Sound of Music\", was decorated for bravery aboard SMS \"Kaiserin und Königin Maria Theresia\" during the rebellion.\n\nAt the outset of the Boxer Rebellion, Britain was engaged in the Boer conflict in South Africa. Consequently, with the army tied down by the war, the British had to rely on the China Squadron and troops largely from India. The Royal Navy's China Squadron, stationed off Tientsin, consisted of the battleships and ; the cruisers , , , , and ; and the destroyers and . British forces were the third-largest contingent in the international alliance, and consisted of the following units: Naval Brigade, 12th Battery Royal Field Artillery, Hong Kong & Singapore Artillery, 2nd Battalion Royal Welsh Fusiliers, 1st Bengal Lancers, 7th Rajput Infantry, 24th Punjab Infantry, 1st Sikh Infantry, Hong Kong Regiment, 1st Chinese Regiment, Royal Engineers, and other support personnel.\n\nThe Australian colonies did not become a unified federation until 1901. As such several of the colonies, independently of each other, sent contingents of naval and army personnel to support the British contingent. For example, South Australia sent its entire navy: the gunboat HMCS \"Protector\". Australia, therefore, was not an official member of the eight-nation alliance and its forces arrived too late to see significant action.\n\nBritain provided 10,000 troops, of which a large part were Indian troops, made out of units of Baluchis, Sikhs, Gurkhas, Rajputs and Punjabis.\n\nGermany had gained a presence in China after the Juye Incident in which two German missionaries were murdered in November 1897. The concession in Kiaochow with the port of Tsingtao, was used as a naval base for the East Asia Squadron and a trading port. The German concession was governed and garrisoned by the Imperial German Navy. At the outbreak of the Boxer Rebellion in June 1900, the garrison of the concession was composed of the \"III. Seebataillon\" with 1,126 men, a marine/naval artillery battery, about 800 men of a \"Kommando\" Detachment and sailors from the East Asian Squadron.\n\nWith the increasing threat of the Boxers, a small armed group from the \"III. Seebatallion\" was sent to Peking and Tientsin to protect German interests there while the majority of the remaining forces stayed behind to prevent attacks against Tsingtao. The siege of the foreign legations in Peking soon convinced Germany and the other European powers that more forces were needed to be sent to China to reinforce allied forces. The first troops dispatched from Germany were the Marine-Expeditionskorps which consisted of the \"I.\" and \"II. Seebatallions\". They were soon followed by the Ostasiatisches Expeditionskorps (East Asian Expeditionary Corps), which was a force of about 15,000 of mostly volunteers from the regular Army under the command of Gen Alfred Count von Waldersee. It comprised initially four and later six two-battalion infantry regiments and a Jäger company, single regiments of cavalry and field artillery and various support and logistics units. On arrival in China it incorporated the Marine-Expeditionskorps that had preceded it to China by a few weeks.\n\nHowever, the majority of the German forces dispatched arrived too late to take part in any of the major actions; the first elements of the Corps arrived at Taku on September 21 after the legations had been relieved. As a result, most of the Corps were mainly employed for garrison duties, though they did fight a number of smaller engagements against pockets of remaining Boxers. The Corps was later disbanded and recalled to Germany early in 1901.\n\nThree battalions of marines, the II/9th, and the I and II/11th RIMa which were stationed in French Indochina were sent to China. They joined the 1st brigade of Marines commanded by general Henri-Nicolas Frey. In July 1900, the 2nd and 3rd battalions of infantry embarked from Toulon but did not reach China until September. In October, following losses and rotations of duty, the first three battalions sent were included in the 16th regiment of marines by order of general Régis Voyron, commander in chief of the French Expeditionary Corps in China. On 1 January 1901, the 16th RIMa was renamed the 16th regiment of colonial infantry. At the end of the campaign, it moved to a new base in Tianjin, with its headquarters in the former buildings of the Chinese admiralty.\n\nIn 1898, the Italians had demanded San Mun Bay as a concession; however, the Chinese refused. The Italian Navy then dispatched a squadron to San Mun Bay, but no further action was taken. The squadron remained there, and when in the summer of 1900 the Boxer Rebellion broke out, detachments from Italian cruisers were sent to Peking. Italian forces were initially made up of sailors from warships. A portion of these helped the French defend the Pei Tang Catholic cathedral while another defended the European Legations in Peking during the famous fifty-five-day siege. Italian sailors also took part in the attacks on the Dagu forts and in capturing Tientsin. However, a larger contingent was later dispatched from Italy, including 83 officers, 1,882 troops, and 178 horses. The contingent included a battalion of Bersaglieri, which was formed from one company each from the 1st, 2nd, 4th, 5th, 6th, 8th, 9th, and 11th Bersaglieri Regiments. In addition, the 24th Line Regiment, volunteers from the Alpini, a battery of machine guns, and some engineers were also sent to China. A battery of field guns was also supplied by the Italian Navy. The total force of 1,965 officers and men, which composed the Italian expeditionary force against the Boxers, was officially referred to as the Italian Royal Troops in China. In August 1900, when this larger force reached the capital, the Italians had seven cruisers and 2,543 men in the country. They were involved in numerous operations along the coast and in the interior of northern China.\n\nThe larger part of the approximately 2,000 Italian soldiers and officers who fought in the campaign against the Boxers were recalled from Peking after the end of the conflict. Italy obtained a 151-acre concession area in Tianjin and the right to occupy the Shanhaiguan fort. A small naval squadron and a naval garrison were maintained in China to protect Italian interests there.\n\nJapan provided the largest contingent of troops; 20,840, as well as 18 warships. Of the total number, 20,300 were Imperial Japanese Army troops of the 5th Infantry Division under Lt. General Yamaguchi Motoomi; the remainder were 540 naval \"rikusentai\" (Marines) from the Imperial Japanese Navy.\n\nAt the beginning of the Boxer Rebellion the Japanese only had 215 troops in northern China stationed at Tientsin; nearly all of them were naval \"rikusentai\" from the and the , under the command of Captain Shimamura Hayao. The Japanese were able to contribute 52 men to the Seymour Expedition. On June 12, the advance of the Seymour Expedition was halted some 30 miles from the capital, by mixed Boxer and Chinese regular army forces. The vastly outnumbered allies withdrew to the vicinity of Tianjin, having suffered more than 300 casualties. The army general staff in Tokyo had become aware of the worsening conditions in China and had drafted ambitious contingency plans, but the government, in the wake of the Triple Intervention five years prior, refused to deploy a large contingent of troops unless requested by the western powers. However, three days later a provisional force of 1,300 troops, commanded by Major General Fukushima Yasumasa, was to be deployed to northern China. Fukushima was chosen because of his ability to speak fluent English, which enabled him to communicate with the British commander. The force landed near Tianjin on July 5.\n\nOn June 17, naval \"Rikusentai\" from the \"Kasagi\" and \"Atago\" had joined British, Russian, and German sailors to seize the Dagu forts near Tianjin. The British, in light of the precarious situation, were compelled to ask Japan for additional reinforcements as the Japanese had the only readily available forces in the region. Britain at the time was heavily engaged in the Boer War; consequently a large part of the British army was tied down in South Africa. In addition, deploying large numbers of troops from its garrisons in India would take too much time and weaken internal security there. Overriding personal doubts, Foreign Minister Aoki Shūzō calculated that the advantages of participating in an allied coalition were too attractive to ignore. Prime Minister Yamagata likewise concurred, but others in the cabinet demanded that there be guarantees from the British in return for the risks and costs of the major deployment of Japanese troops. On July 6, the 5th Infantry Division was alerted for possible deployment to China, but no timetable was set for its deployment. Two days later on July 8, with more ground troops urgently needed to lift the siege of the foreign legations at Peking, the British ambassador offered the Japanese government one million British pounds in exchange for Japanese participation.\n\nShortly afterward, advance units of the 5th Division departed for China, bringing Japanese strength to 3,800 personnel of the then 17,000 allied force. The commander of the 5th Division, Lt. General Yamaguchi Motoomi had taken operational control from Fukushima. Japanese troops were involved in the storming of Tianjin on July 14, after which the allies consolidated and awaited the remainder of the 5th Division and other coalition reinforcements. By that time the siege of legations was lifted on August 14; the Japanese force of 13,000 was the largest single contingent, making up about 40 percent of the approximately 33,000 strong allied expeditionary force. Japanese troops involved in the fighting had acquitted themselves well, although a British military observer felt their aggressiveness, densely packed formations, and over willingness to attack cost them excessive and disproportionate casualties. For example, during the Tianjin fighting, the Japanese suffered more than half of the allied casualties, 400 out of 730, but comprised less than one quarter (3,800) of the force of 17,000. Similarly at Beijing, the Japanese accounted for almost two-thirds of the losses, 280 of 453, but constituted slightly less than half of the assault force.\n\nRussia supplied the second largest force after Japan, with 12,400 troops, consisting mainly of garrisons from Port Arthur and Vladivostok. On 30 November 1900, Admiral Alekseyev compelled the Chinese military governor of Shenyang, Zeng Qi, to sign an agreement that effectively ended Chinese sovereignty over Manchuria and placed it under Russian control.\n\nIn the United States, the suppression of the Boxer Rebellion was known as the \"China Relief Expedition\". The United States was able to play a major role in suppressing the Boxer Rebellion largely due to the presence of American forces deployed in the Philippines since the US annexation after the Spanish–American War in 1898. Of the foreigners under siege in Beijing, there were 56 American Sailors and Marines from the USS \"Oregon\" and USS \"Newark\". The main American formations deployed to relieve the siege were the 9th Infantry and 14th Infantry regiments, elements of the 6th Cavalry regiment, the 5th Artillery regiment, and a Marine battalion, all under the command of Adna Chaffee. Future President Herbert Hoover and Mrs. Lou Henry Hoover were living in the foreign compound during the siege when Mr. Hoover was working for the Chinese Engineering and Mining Company. Mr. Hoover helped erect barricades and formed a protective force of the able bodied men. Mrs. Hoover helped set up a hospital, nursed the wounded, set up a dairy, took part in the night watch, took tea to sentries and carried a Mauser .38 semi-automatic pistol.\n\nThe allied troops invaded and occupied Beijing on 14 August 1900. They defeated the Qing Imperial Army's Wuwei Corps in several engagements, and quickly brought an end to the siege and also the Boxer Rebellion. Empress Dowager Cixi, the Emperor and high government officials fled the Imperial Palace for Xi'an and sent Li Hongzhang for peace talks with the Alliance. At the end of the conflict, the Qing Imperial government signed the Boxer Protocol of 1901.\n\nA group of Chinese Christians that were killed by the Boxers are commemorated to this day as the Holy Martyrs of China by the Orthodox and Catholic churches. An unknown number of people believed to be Boxers were beheaded by the allied troops, and this became the subject of an early short film. A U.S. Marine wrote that he saw German and Russian troops bayonet women after raping them.\n\nIn a research article, Kenneth Clark states: \"Following the taking of Peking, troops from the international force looted the capital city and even ransacked the Forbidden City, with many Chinese treasures finding their way to Europe.\"\n\nWhile the Alliance occupied Beijing, they looted the palaces, yamens, and government buildings. This resulted in a disastrous loss of many precious cultural relics in China, many books on literature and history (including the famous \"Yongle Dadian\") and cultural heritage (including the Forbidden City, the Summer Palace, Xishan and the Old Summer Palace). Theft, destruction, and loss can not be accurately estimated. More than 3,000 gold-plated bronze Buddhas, 1,400 splendid products and 4,300 bronzes in (嵩祝寺) were looted. The gold plating on the copper tanks in front of the Forbidden City palaces was scraped off by the Alliance, leaving scratch marks that could been seen now.\"Yongle Dadian\" was compiled by 2,100 scholars during the Ming Yongle period (1403-1408), with a total of 22,870 volumes, was partially destroyed in the Second Opium War in 1860. Later it was collected in the Imperial Palace of Nanchizi Street. It was found and destroyed completely by the Alliance in 1900. Part of \"Yongle Dadian\" was used for the construction of fortifications. The \"Siku Quanshu\" was compiled by 360 scholars during the Qing Qianlong period. It collected 3,461 ancient books, totaling 79,309 volumes. The whole book consisted of 7 sets. One set was destroyed in 1860 during the invasion of the British and French alliance force. Another 10,000 plus volumes were destroyed in 1900 by the Eight-Nation Alliance. The Hanlin Academy houses a collection of precious books, orphans, books of the Song dynasty, literature and history materials, and precious paintings. The Eight-Nation Alliance looted the collections. Until now, many parts of the abovementioned historical books, that were looted during the Eight-Nation Alliance invasion period, could be found in the museums of London and Paris.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1942568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942568", "title": "Angelo Muscat", "text": "Angelo Muscat\n\nAngelo Muscat (24 September 1930 – 10 October 1977) was a Maltese English film and television character actor. He is primarily recalled for his role as the mute butler in the 1967 TV series \"The Prisoner\".\n\nMuscat was born in Malta to a policeman father. He was distinctly diminutive at only 4 ft 3 in (1.3 m), although both his parents and his three brothers were over 6 ft in height. Muscat initially found work as a kitchen porter and then as a stoker at an RAF base in Malta. After the death of his parents and finding himself largely alone, he moved to England where he worked in a zip-fastener factory. In 1961 Muscat joined a production of \"Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs\" that was to tour the United Kingdom. Moving into television, he played a Chumbley in the \"Doctor Who\" serial \"Galaxy 4\" (1965), played the part of a clown in the ITV series \"Emergency – Ward 10\" and appeared as the Queen's Servant in the BBC television adaptation of \"Alice in Wonderland\" (1966).\n\nMuscat appeared in the television series \"The Prisoner\" (1967-1968) with Patrick McGoohan, appearing in 14 of the 17 episodes as the mute butler. He played an Oompa-Loompa in \"Willy Wonka & the Chocolate Factory\" (uncredited, 1971). He also appeared in the Beatles' \"Magical Mystery Tour\" (1967).\n\nDuring his later years, Muscat lived alone and virtually penniless in a basement flat in North London. He found it difficult to find acting work, and to supplement his income he made ornate birdcages by hand.\n\nMuscat died on 10 October 1977, aged 47 at St Bartholomew's Hospital in London.\n\nEach year, on 10 October a small group of enthusiasts dubbed the \"Friends of Angelo Muscat\" (FOAM) celebrate his life.\n\n"}
{"id": "1942571", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942571", "title": "Diwan (poetry)", "text": "Diwan (poetry)\n\nIn Islamic cultures of the Middle East, North Africa, Sicily and South Asia, a Diwan (, \"divân\", , \"dīwān\") is a collection of poems by one author, usually excluding his or her long poems (mathnawī). These poems, frequently sung or set to music, were often composed and collected in the imperial courts of various sultanates and were very well known for their ability to inspire.\n\nThe English usage of the phrase \"diwan poetry\" comes from the Arabic word \"diwan\" (دیوان), which is loaned from Persian, and designated a list or register. The Persian word derived from the Persian \"dibir\" meaning \"writer\" or \"scribe\". \"Diwan\" was also borrowed into Armenian, Arabic, Urdu, Turkish. In Persian, Turkish and other languages the term \"diwan\" came to mean a collection of poems by a single author, as in \"selected works\", or the whole body of work of a poet. Thus \"Diwan-e Mir\" would be the \"Collected works of Mir Taqi Mir\" and so on. The first use of the term in this sense is attributed to Rudaki.\n\nThe term \"divan\" was used in titles of poetic works in French, beginning in 1697, but was a rare and didactic usage, though one that was revived by its famous appearance in Goethe's \"West–östlicher Divan\" (Poems of West and East), a work published in 1819 that reflected the poet's abiding interest in Middle Eastern and specifically Persian literature.\n\nThis word has also been applied in a similar way to collections of Hebrew poetry and to poetry of al-Andalus.\n\nOttoman Divan poetry was a highly ritualized and symbolic art form. From the Persian poetry that largely inspired it, it inherited a wealth of symbols whose meanings and interrelationships—both of similitude (مراعات نظير \"mura'ât-i nazîr\" / تناسب\n\"tenâsüb\") and opposition (تضاد \"tezâd\")—were more or less prescribed. Examples of prevalent symbols that, to some extent, oppose one another include, among others:\n\nAs the opposition of \"the ascetic\" and \"the dervish\" suggests, Divan poetry—much like Turkish folk poetry—was heavily influenced by Sufi thought. One of the primary characteristics of Divan poetry, however—as of the Persian poetry before it—was its mingling of the mystical Sufi element with a profane and even erotic element. Thus, the pairing of \"the nightingale\" and \"the rose\" simultaneously suggests two different relationships:\n\nSimilarly, \"the world\" refers simultaneously to the physical world and to this physical world considered as the abode of sorrow and impermanence, while \"the rosegarden\" refers simultaneously to a literal garden and to the garden of Paradise. \"The nightingale\", or suffering lover, is often seen as situated—both literally and figuratively—in \"the world\", while \"the rose\", or beloved, is seen as being in \"the rosegarden\".\n\nDivan poetry was composed through the constant juxtaposition of many such images within a strict metrical framework, thus allowing numerous potential meanings to emerge. A brief example is the following line of verse, or \"mısra\" (مصراع), by the 18th-century judge and poet Hayatî Efendi:\n\nHere, the nightingale is only implied (as being the poet/lover), while the rose, or beloved, is shown to be capable of inflicting pain with its thorns (خار \"hâr\"). The world, as a result, is seen as having both positive aspects (it is a rosegarden, and thus analogous to the garden of Paradise) and negative aspects (it is a rosegarden full of thorns, and thus different from the garden of Paradise).\n\nAs for the development of Divan poetry over the more than 500 years of its existence, that is—as the Ottomanist Walter G. Andrews points out—a study still in its infancy; clearly defined movements and periods have not yet been decided upon. Early in the history of the tradition, the Persian influence was very strong, but this was mitigated somewhat through the influence of poets such as the Azerbaijani Imadaddin Nasimi (?–1417?) and the Uyghur Ali-Shir Nava'i (1441–1501), both of whom offered strong arguments for the poetic status of the Turkic languages as against the much-venerated Persian. Partly as a result of such arguments, Divan poetry in its strongest period—from the 16th to the 18th centuries—came to display a unique balance of Persian and Turkish elements, until the Persian influence began to predominate again in the early 19th century.\n\nDespite the lack of certainty regarding the stylistic movements and periods of Divan poetry, however, certain highly different styles are clear enough, and can perhaps be seen as exemplified by certain poets:\n\n\nThe vast majority of Divan poetry was lyric in nature: either \"gazel\"s (which make up the greatest part of the repertoire of the tradition), or \"kasîde\"s. There were, however, other common genres, most particularly the \"mesnevî\", a kind of verse romance and thus a variety of narrative poetry; the two most notable examples of this form are the \"Layla and Majnun\" (ليلى و مجنون) of Fuzûlî and the \"Hüsn ü Aşk\" (حسن و عشق; \"Beauty and Love\") of Şeyh Gâlib.\n\nIn Urdu poetry diwan are also a collection of poems, but here they are mainly ghazals.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1942574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942574", "title": "Tarō Asō", "text": "Tarō Asō\n\nAsō was first elected to the House of Representatives in 1979. He served in numerous roles, including as Minister for Foreign Affairs from 2005 to 2007, and became Secretary-General of the Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) in 2008, having also held that role temporarily in 2007. He was later elected LDP President in September 2008, becoming Prime Minister the same month. He led the LDP to its worst election result in its history a year later, marking only the second time in post-war Japan that a governing party had lost re-election. The LDP returned to government following the 2012 election under Shinzō Abe, and Asō was appointed to the Cabinet as Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister.\n\nAsō, a Roman Catholic, was born in Iizuka in Fukuoka Prefecture on 20 September 1940. His father, Takakichi Asō, was the chairman of the Aso Cement Company and a close associate of Prime Minister Kakuei Tanaka; his mother Kazuko Asō was Prime Minister Shigeru Yoshida's daughter. Tarō is also a great-great-grandson of Ōkubo Toshimichi, and his wife, Chikako is the third daughter of Prime Minister Zenkō Suzuki. His younger sister, Nobuko, Princess Tomohito of Mikasa, is a cousin-in-law of Emperor Akihito.\n\nAsō graduated from the Faculty of Politics and Economics at Gakushuin University, and the London School of Economics.\n\nAsō spent two years working for a diamond mining operation in Sierra Leone before civil war forced him to return to Japan. Then he joined his father's company in 1966, and served as president of the Aso Mining Company from 1973 to 1979. Working for the company, he lived in Brazil during the 1960s and became fluent in Portuguese. He was also a member of the Japanese shooting team at the 1976 Summer Olympics in Montreal and President of the Japan Junior Chamber in 1978.\n\nHe joined the Cabinet of Jun'ichirō Koizumi in 2003 as Minister of Internal Affairs and Communications. On 31 October 2005, he became Minister for Foreign Affairs. There has been some speculation that his position in the Cabinet was due to his membership in the Kōno Group, an LDP caucus led by pro-Chinese lawmaker Yōhei Kōno: by appointing Asō as Minister for Foreign Affairs, Koizumi may have been attempting to \"rein in\" Kōno's statements critical of Japanese foreign policy.\n\nAsō was one of the final candidates to replace Koizumi as prime minister in 2006, but lost the internal party election to Shinzō Abe by a wide margin. Both Abe and Asō are conservative on foreign policy issues and have taken confrontational stances towards some East Asian nations, particularly North Korea and, to a lesser extent, the People's Republic of China. Abe was considered a more \"moderate\" politician than the more \"hard-line\" Asō, and led Asō in opinion polling within Japan. Asō's views on multilateralism are suggested in a 2006 speech, \"Arc of Freedom and Prosperity: Japan's Expanding Diplomatic Horizons\".\n\nAsō acknowledged that he would most likely lose to Fukuda, but said that he wanted to run so that there would be an open election, saying that otherwise LDP would face criticism for making its choice \"through back-room deals\". In the President election, held on 23 September, Fukuda defeated Asō, receiving 330 votes against 197 votes for Asō.\n\nOn 1 August 2008, Fukuda appointed Asō as Secretary-General of LDP, a move that solidified Asō's position as the number two man in the party.\n\nUnexpectedly on 1 September 2008, Fukuda announced his resignation as Prime Minister. Five LDP members including Asō ran for new party President to succeed Fukuda. On 21 September, one day before votes of Diet party members, Asō reportedly told a crowd of supporters outside Tokyo: \"The greatest concern right now is the economy.\" \"America is facing a financial crisis ... we must not allow that to bring us down as well.\" Finally on 22 September, Asō did win. He was elected as President of LDP with 351 of 525 votes (217 from 384 Diet party members, 134 from 47 prefecture branches); Kaoru Yosano, Yuriko Koike, Nobuteru Ishihara, Shigeru Ishiba got 66, 46, 37, 25 votes respectively.\n\nTwo days later on 24 September, Asō was designated by the Diet as Prime Minister, and was formally appointed to the office by the Emperor on that night. In the House of Representatives (lower house), he garnered 337 out of 478 votes cast; in the House of Councillors (upper house), Ichirō Ozawa, President of the main opposition Democratic Party of Japan, was named through two times of ballots. Because no agreement was reached at a joint committee of both Houses, the resolution of the House of Representatives became the resolution of the Diet, as is stipulated in the Constitution. Asō reportedly said, \"If you look at the current period, it's not a stable one.\" and \"These are turbulent times with the financial situation and everything else.\"\n\nLater on the same day as his election as Prime Minister, Asō personally announced his new Cabinet (this is normally done by the Chief Cabinet Secretary). His Cabinet was markedly different from the preceding Cabinet under Fukuda. Five of its members had never previously served in the Cabinet, and one of them, 34-year-old Yūko Obuchi, was the youngest member of the Cabinet in the post-war era.\n\nPrime Minister Asō flew to Washington to meet with United States President Barack Obama in February 2009. He was the first foreign leader to visit the Obama White House; however, reports suggested that the new administration was interested less in giving Asō a political boost than in sending a message that Japan continues to be an important ally and partner – a low-risk, high-payoff gesture for both Asō and Obama.\n\nAfter his election as prime minister Asō was expected to dissolve the lower house to clear the way for a general election. But he repeatedly stressed the need for a functioning government to face the economic crisis and ruled out an early election. Only after passage of the extra budget for fiscal 2009 in May and facing internal pressure from the LDP after a series of defeats in regional elections – most notably the Tokyo prefectural election on 12 July – he decided to announce a general election for 30 August 2009. He dissolved the House of Representatives on 21 July 2009. The LDP lost by a landslide to the Democratic Party of Japan, in the face of record levels of post-war unemployment. Accepting responsibility for the worst (and second-only) defeat of a sitting government in modern Japanese history, Asō immediately resigned as LDP president.\n\nWhen Shinzo Abe returned to the Prime Minister's office in 2012, Aso is appointed Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance. He is the first former Japanese Prime Minister to subsequently serve as Deputy Prime Minister.\n\nIn 2001, as economics minister, he was quoted as saying he wanted to make Japan a country where \"rich Jews\" would like to live.\n\nOn 15 October 2005, during the opening ceremony of the Kyushu National Museum which also displays how other Asian cultures have influenced Japanese cultural heritage, he praised Japan for having \"one culture, one civilization, one language, and one ethnic group\", and stated that it was the only such country in the world. This statement sparked controversy for what critics described as invoking Japan's imperialist and racist past. \n\nAt a lecture in Nagasaki Prefecture, Asō referred to a Japanese peace initiative on the Middle East, stating, \"The Japanese were trusted because they had never been involved in exploitation there, or been involved in fights or fired machine guns. Japan is doing what the Americans can't do. It would probably be no good to have blue eyes and blond hair. Luckily, we Japanese have yellow faces.\"\n\n\"Kyodo News\" reported that he had said on 4 February 2006, \"our predecessors did a good thing\" regarding compulsory education implemented during Japan's colonization of Taiwan.\n\nOn 21 December 2005, he said China was \"a neighbour with one billion people equipped with nuclear bombs and has expanded its military outlays by double digits for 17 years in a row, and it is unclear as to what this is being used for. It is beginning to be a considerable threat\". On 28 January 2006, he called for the emperor to visit the controversial Yasukuni shrine. He later backtracked on the comment, but stated that he hoped such a visit would be possible in the future.\n\n\"Mainichi Daily News\" reported that on 9 March 2006 he referred to Taiwan as a \"law-abiding country\", which drew strong protest from Beijing, which considers the island a part of China.\n\nOn 23 September 2008, \"Akahata\", the daily newspaper published by Japanese Communist Party released a compiled list of these and other statements as the front-page article criticizing Asō. This compilation as well as similar lists of blunders have been frequently cited in the Japanese media.\n\n\"Yahoo! News\" reported that he had said on 9 January 2009, \"To work is good. It's completely different thinking from the Old Testament.\"\n\nWhile speaking at a meeting of the National Council on Social Security Reform, in 2013, Asō referred to patients suffering from serious illness as \"tube persons\" and remarked that they should be \"allowed to die quickly\" if they desired it. \"Heaven forbid I should be kept alive if I want to die\", he is quoted as saying. \"You cannot sleep well when you think it's all paid by the government. This won't be solved unless you let them hurry up and die.\"\n\nIn 2014, while campaigning in Sapporo for the general election, Asō said that rising social welfare costs were not solely due to an aging population. He said, \"There are many people who are creating the image that (the increasing number of) elderly people is bad, but more problematic is people who don't give birth\". The comment was labeled as insensitive to those who are not able to have children for biological or economic reasons.\n\n\"The Guardian\" reported on 30 August 2017, that he said, \"Hitler, who killed millions of people, was no good even if his motive was right.\" He later retracted the remarks.\n\nAso caused a stir in June 2018 when he boasted that the large support towards the LDP among voters under 35 in the 2017 general election was due to that demographic being illiterate about the news and current affairs.\n\nIn May 2018, Aso downplayed alleged sexual harassment charges against his ministry's top bureaucrat by saying that “there is no such thing as a sexual harassment charge”. When asked to comment on a formal complaint submitted to his ministry on the alleged sexual harassment, Aso-san's remarked that his “only thought was that it would have been easier to read if they used a bigger font” \n\nAffiliated to the openly revisionist organization Nippon Kaigi, Asō believes that Japan committed no war crimes during the Pacific War.\n\nIn mid-2008 Asō conceded that his family's coal mine, Aso Mining Company, was alleged to have forced Allied prisoners of war to work in the mines in 1945 without pay. Western media reported that 300 prisoners, including 197 Australians, 101 British, and two Dutch, worked in the mine. Two of the Australians, John Watson and Leslie Edgar George Wilkie, died while working in the Aso mine. In addition, 10,000 Korean conscripts worked in the mine between 1939 and 1945 under severe, brutal conditions in which many of them died or were injured while receiving little pay. The company, now known as the Aso Group, is run by Asō's younger brother. Asō's wife serves on its board of directors. Asō headed the company in the 1970s before going into politics.\n\nActing on a request from Yukihisa Fujita, the Foreign Ministry investigated and announced on 18 December 2008 that Aso Mining had, in fact, used 300 Allied POWs at its mine during World War II. The ministry confirmed that two Australians had died while working at the mine, but declined to release their names or causes of deaths for \"privacy reasons\". Said Fujita, \"Prisoner policy is important in many ways for diplomacy, and it is a major problem that the issue has been neglected for so long.\" Asō has not responded to requests from former laborers to apologize for the way they were treated by his family's company.\n\nThe Japanese media noted in November 2008 that Asō often mispronounced or incorrectly read kanji words written in his speeches, even though many of the words are commonly used in Japanese. Asō spoke of the speaking errors to reporters on 12 November 2008 saying, \"Those were just reading errors, just mistakes.\" Asō's tendency for malapropisms has led comparisons to George W. Bush, and the use of his name, \"Tarō\" as a schoolyard taunt for unintelligent children.\n\nAn anatomy professor from the University of Tokyo, Takeshi Yoro, speculated that Asō could possibly suffer from dyslexia.\n\nIn 2001, Asō, along with Hiromu Nonaka, was among the LDP's chief candidates to succeed Yoshirō Mori as prime minister of Japan. During a meeting of LDP leaders at which Nonaka was not present, Asō reportedly told the assembled group, \"We are not going to let someone from the buraku become the prime minister, are we?\" Asō's remark was apparently a reference to Nonaka's burakumin, a social minority group in Japan, heritage.\n\nNonaka subsequently withdrew as a candidate. Asō eventually lost the appointment to Jun'ichirō Koizumi. Asō's comment about Nonaka's heritage was revealed in 2005. Asō denied that he had made the statement, but Hisaoki Kamei, who was present at the 2001 meeting, stated in January 2009 that he had heard Asō say something, \"to that effect\". Nonaka said that he would \"never forgive\" Asō for the comment and went on to state that Asō was a \"misery\" to Japan.\n\nIn October 2008, the Japanese media reported that Asō dined-out or drank in restaurants and bars in luxury hotels almost nightly. When asked about it, Asō stated, \"I won't change my style. Luckily I have my money and can afford it.\" Asō added that if he went anywhere else, he would have to be accompanied by security guards which would cause trouble.\n\nAccording to the \"Asahi Shimbun\", Asō dined-out or drank at bars 32 times in September 2008, mainly at exclusive hotels. Asō's predecessor, Yasuo Fukuda, dined-out only seven times in his first month in office. Both of the LDP's opposition parties have called Asō's frequent outings inappropriate. Asō's Chief Cabinet Secretary, Jun Matsumoto, commented on the issue by saying that Asō's frequent trips to restaurants, \"is his lifestyle and philosophy, and I am not in a position to express my opinion. If only there were more appropriate places when considering security issues and not causing trouble for other customers.\"\n\nAsō argues that embracing Japanese pop culture can be an important step to cultivating ties with other countries, hoping that manga will act as a bridge to the world. He is referred to as an otaku.\n\nAsō has been a fan of manga since childhood. He had his family send manga magazines from Japan while he was studying at Stanford University. In 2003, he described reading about 10 or 20 manga magazines every week (making up only part of Asō's voracious reading) and talked about his impression of various manga extemporaneously. In 2007, as Minister for Foreign Affairs, he established the International Manga Award for non-Japanese manga artists.\n\nIt was reported that he was seen reading the manga \"Rozen Maiden\" in Tokyo International Airport, which earned him the sobriquet \"His Excellency Rozen\". He admitted in an interview that he had read the manga; however, he said he did not remember whether he had read it in an airport. He is a fan of \"Golgo 13\", a long-running manga about an assassin for hire.\n\nAsō's candidacy for the position of Japanese Prime Minister actually caused share-value to rise among some manga publishers and companies related to the manga industry.\n\nAs a Roman Catholic, Asō belongs to the small minority of Japanese Christians, but he has not emphasized his religiosity. Asō is the seventh Christian prime minister of Japan, after Takashi Hara, Korekiyo Takahashi, Tetsu Katayama, Ichirō Hatoyama, Masayoshi Ōhira, and his own grandfather Shigeru Yoshida. His Christian name is Francisco (フランシスコ).\n\nOn occasion of his 2009 new year visit to the Shinto Ise Shrine, Asō publicly performed the hand-clapping in front of the shrine, stating later that he had \"prayed for the good of the Japanese people\".\n\n\"Incorporates information from the Japanese Wikipedia article\"\n\nAsō is a patrilineal descendant of the Asō clan and is maternally descended from Ōkubo Toshimichi through his son Count Makino Nobuaki. Through his paternal grandmother the Hon. Kanō Natsuko, he descends from the Tachibana clan of the Miike Domain and from a cadet branch of the Ōkubo clan, who ruled the Odawara Domain. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1942581", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942581", "title": "List of high schools in Connecticut", "text": "List of high schools in Connecticut\n\nThis list of high schools in the state of Connecticut is a sortable table. To sort alphabetically by the subject of each column, click on the triangles in each column heading. A second click reorders the list in reverse alphabetical order by that column. The default order for the list is alphabetically by community name.\n\nSchool names are listed with the full, official name of the school without beginning articles such as 'the' to allow the below table to be sorted appropriately. Some schools named after people are sometimes known by the last name of the person (such as \"O'Brien Tech\", for instance Emmett O'Brien Technical High School).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1942582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942582", "title": "Padhyangan", "text": "Padhyangan\n\nPadhyangan, also known as Project-P or P-Project, is a comedy troupe from the Indonesian city of Bandung. They were formed in 1982 by Iszur Muchtar and Denny Chandra, and then in 1986 joined by Daan Aria, Joehana, Iang Darmawan and Wawan Hanura. Their name was extracted from the two alma maters of the members, the Padjadjaran University and the Parahyangan Catholic University. They first became popular with a radio show called \"Ozserba\" that aired every Wednesday evening on Radio Oz in Bandung. Their style of comedy is a mixture between Monty Python and \"Weird Al\" Yankovic, making parodies of popular culture like movies and music and even myths.\n"}
{"id": "1942584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942584", "title": "Pyramid of Khafre", "text": "Pyramid of Khafre\n\nThe Pyramid of Khafre or of Chephren (, ) is the second-tallest and second-largest of the Ancient Egyptian Pyramids of Giza and the tomb of the Fourth-Dynasty pharaoh Khafre (Chefren), who ruled from to 2532 BC.\n\nThe pyramid has a base length of 215.5  m (706 ft) and rises up to a height of . It is made of limestone blocks weighing more than 2 tons each. The slope of the pyramid rises at a 53° 13' angle, steeper than its neighbor, the Pyramid of Khufu, which has an angle of 51°50'24\". Khafre's pyramid sits on bedrock 10 m (33 ft) higher than Khufu's pyramid, which makes it appear to be taller.\n\nThe pyramid was likely opened and robbed during the First Intermediate Period. During the Nineteenth Dynasty, the overseer of temple construction took casing stones to build a temple in Heliopolis on Ramesses II's orders.\n\nArab historian Ibn Abd al-Salam recorded that the pyramid was opened in 1372 AD. On the wall of the burial chamber, there is an Arabic graffito that probably dates from the same time.\n\nIt is not known when the rest of the casing stones were robbed; they were presumably still in place by 1646, when John Greaves, professor of Astronomy at the University of Oxford in his \"Pyramidographia\", wrote that, while its stones weren't as large or as regularly laid as in Khufu's, the surface was smooth and even free of breaches of inequalities, except on the south.\nThe pyramid was first explored in modern times by Giovanni Belzoni on March 2, 1818, when the original entrance was found on the north side. Belzoni had hopes of finding an intact burial but the chamber was empty except for an open sarcophagus and its broken lid on the floor.\nThe first complete exploration was conducted by John Perring in 1837. In 1853, Auguste Mariette partially excavated Khafre's valley temple, and, in 1858, while completing its clearance, he managed to discover a diorite statue of Khafre.\n\nLike the Great Pyramid, a rock outcropping was used in the core. Due to the slope of the plateau, the northwest corner was cut 10 m (33 ft) out of the rock subsoil and the southeast corner is built up.\n\nThe pyramid is built of horizontal courses. The stones used at the bottom are very large, but as the pyramid rises, the stones become smaller, becoming only thick at the apex. The courses are rough and irregular for the first half of its height but a narrow band of regular masonry is clear in the midsection of the pyramid. At the northwest corner of the pyramid, the bedrock was fashioned into steps. Casing stones cover the top third of the pyramid, but the pyramidion and part of the apex are missing.\n\nThe bottom course of casing stones was made out of pink granite but the remainder of the pyramid was cased in Tura Limestone. Close examination reveals that the corner edges of remaining casing stones are not completely straight, but are staggered by a few millimeters. One theory is that this is due to settling from seismic activity. An alternative theory postulates that the slope on the blocks was cut to shape before being placed due to the limited working space towards the top of the pyramid.\n\nTwo entrances lead to the burial chamber, one that opens 11.54 m (38 ft) up the face of the pyramid and one that opens at the base of the pyramid. These passageways do not align with the centerline of the pyramid, but are offset to the east by 12 m (39 ft). The lower descending passageway is carved completely out of the bedrock, descending, running horizontal, then ascending to join the horizontal passage leading to the burial chamber.\n\nOne theory as to why there are two entrances is that the pyramid was intended to be much larger with the northern base shifted 30 m (98 ft) further to the north which would make Khafre's pyramid much larger than his father's. This would place the entrance to the lower descending passage within the masonry of the pyramid. While the bedrock is cut away farther from the pyramid on the north side than on the west side, it is not clear that there is enough room on the plateau for the enclosure wall and pyramid terrace. An alternative theory is that, as with many earlier pyramids, plans were changed and the entrance was moved midway through construction.\n\nThere is a subsidiary chamber, equal in length to the c.412\"-long King's Chamber of the Khufu pyramid, that opens to the west of the lower passage, the purpose of which is uncertain. It may be used to store offerings, store burial equipment, or it may be a serdab chamber. The upper descending passage is clad in granite and descends to join with the horizontal passage to the burial chamber.\n\nThe burial chamber was carved out of a pit in the bedrock. The roof is constructed of gabled limestone beams. The chamber is rectangular, 14.15 m by 5 m (46.4 ft x 16 ft), and is oriented east-west. Khafre's sarcophagus was carved out of a solid block of granite and sunk partially in the floor, in it, Belzoni found bones of an animal, possibly a bull. Another pit in the floor likely contained the canopic chest, its lid would have been one of the pavement slabs.\n\nAlong the centerline of the pyramid on the south side was a satellite pyramid, but almost nothing remains other than some core blocks and the outline of the foundation. It contains two descending passages, one of them ending in a dead end with a niche which contained pieces of ritualistic furniture.\n\nThe temples of Khafre's complex survive in much better condition than Khufu's, this being specially true to the Valley Temple, which is substantially preserved.\nTo the east of the Pyramid sits the mortuary temple. Though it is now largely in ruins, enough of it survives to understand the plan. It is larger than previous temples and is the first to include all five standard elements of later mortuary temples: an entrance hall, a columned court, five niches for statues of the pharaoh, five storage chambers, and an inner sanctuary. There were over 50 life size statues of Khafre, but these were removed and recycled, possibly by Ramses II. The temple was built of megalithic blocks (the largest is an estimated 400 tonnes).\n\nA causeway runs to the valley temple, which is very similar to the mortuary temple. It is built of megalithic blocks sheathed in red granite. The square pillars of the T-shaped hallway were made of solid granite, and the floor was paved in alabaster. The exterior was built of huge blocks, some weighing over 100 tonnes.\nThough devoid of any internal decoration, this temple would have been filled with symbolism: two doors open into a vestibule and a large pillared hall, in which there were sockets in the floor that would have fixed 23 statues of Khafre. These columns have since been plundered. The interior, made of granite of the Valley Temple, is remarkably well preserved. The exterior made of limestone is much more weathered.\n\nThe so-called temple of the Sphinx is not attested to any king, but structural similarities to Khafre's mortuary temple point to him as its builder. Opening to a hall with 24 columns, each with its own statue, two sanctuaries and symmetric design, it is possible but unsure if this temple had any symbolism attached to the finished plan.\n\nThe sphinx, probably built out of a rock formation used to cut the blocks for the pyramid itself, may have been part of the complex.\n\n"}
{"id": "1942586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942586", "title": "Kandace Krueger", "text": "Kandace Krueger\n\nKandace Gayle Krueger Matthews (born May 27, 1976) is an American journalist, singer, TV Host and beauty pageant titleholder who won Miss USA 2001 and represented the USA in the Miss Universe 2001 where she placed 2nd runner-up. She is the daughter of Larry and Barbara Johnson Krueger, and was born and raised in Austin, Texas.\n\nKrueger started competing in local Miss Texas USA pageants as an eighteen-year-old, placing in the top five but not winning. She won her first local title, Miss Williamson County USA, in 1999 and her second, Miss Austin USA, in 2000. Krueger competed in the Miss Texas USA pageant numerous times in 1990s without placing, although she came close to making the top twelve in 1999 at the Miss Texas USA 2000 pageant. In 2000, her first appearance in the pageant semi-finalis, Krueger won the Miss Texas USA 2001 title.\n\nKrueger represented Texas in the Miss USA 2001 pageant broadcast live from Gary, Indiana in March 2001. She made the semi-finals, becoming the first Texan to make the top ten in two years, placed second in the swimsuit competition (9.38) and fourth in the evening gown competition (9.29). She entered the top five in second place, with an average combined score of 9.33. After the final interview round she was ranked second, but went on to win the pageant.\nDuring her homecoming in Texas, she was given the key to the city of Austin, presented to the Senate, and met with governor Rick Perry.\n\nAs Miss USA, Krueger earned the right to represent the United States at the Miss Universe 2001 Pageant in Bayamón, Puerto Rico, where she finished as 2nd Runner-Up, ahead of Celina Jaitley of India and Eva Ekvall of Venezuela and behind Evelina Papantoniou of Greece and winner Denise Quiñones of Puerto Rico. She placed third in the swimsuit competition (9.37) and fourth in evening gown (9.45).\n\nPrior to Miss USA, Krueger attended Texas A&M and studied journalism. Her ambition was to become a sports newsbroadcaster. She was given the chance to be a presenter for the Miss USA 2002 broadcast.\n\nShe is currently the host of the weekday TV show Today with Kandace broadcast in Dallas, TX.\n"}
{"id": "1942588", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942588", "title": "Chieko Nōno", "text": "Chieko Nōno\n\nShe was born in Qiqihar, Manchuria in 1935 and moved to Kagoshima at the end of World War II. She graduated from Kagoshima Konan High School in 1954 and attended the School of Midwifery attached to the Medical Department of Osaka University. Nohno worked as a nurse for more than thirty years before beginning her political career.\n\nShe was first elected to the House of Councillors in 1992, and was reelected in 1998 and 2004. In 2001 she served as the Vice Minister for Labor for half a year. Prime Minister Koizumi appointed her Minister of Justice on 27 September 2004. Her selection was somewhat controversial. Her background is in medicine, with no formal legal training. She is only the second woman to serve in the position. The first was Tachiko Nagao, who served for ten months in 1996.\n\nNohno has spoken in favor of immigration and assimilation of immigrants into Japanese society.\n\n"}
{"id": "1942591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942591", "title": "Michael Gudinski", "text": "Michael Gudinski\n\nMichael Solomon Gudinski, AM (born 22 August 1952) is an Australian entrepreneur and businessman currently based in Melbourne who is a leading figure in the Australian music industry. Gudinski is mostly known for forming the highly successful Australian record company Mushroom Records in 1972 through whom he signed several generations of Australian musicians and performers ranging from MacKenzie Theory, the Skyhooks, The Choirboys, Kylie Minogue, and New Zealand's Split Enz to newer artists such as Eskimo Joe, Evermore and others forging a string of successful releases by local talent. He is the father of singer Kate Alexa, who has been signed to his record label Liberation Music since mid-2004.\n\nGudinski was born to Jewish Lithuanian immigrants who had arrived in Australia in 1948.\n\nHe was educated at Melbourne High School and Mount Scopus, and was a school friend of several young musicians who later became prominent on the Australian music scene.\n\nGudinski began promoting rock dances around Melbourne while still in his teens and moved into music agency work in the late 1960s. This led to the establishment of the Consolidated Rock artist agency in around 1970.\n\nIn the early 1970s Gudinski founded a short-lived music magazine, \"Daily Planet\", but the publication failed to reach a wide audience and consistently lost money.\n\nGudinski and fellow music agent Ray Evans formed Mushroom Records in late 1972. The company's first album was an ambitious triple-LP live recording of the 1973 Sunbury Festival. In its first few years Mushroom released albums and singles by some of the most significant Australian rock acts of the period, including Madder Lake, MacKenzie Theory, Matt Taylor and The Dingoes.\n\nMushroom struggled to survive for its first two years, hampered by lack of airplay on commercial radio, and the company reportedly came close to folding on several occasions. But the label was dramatically pushed to the forefront of the Australian music scene in early 1975 with the massive success of Skyhooks, whose debut album \"Living in the 70's\" became the biggest-selling Australian LP ever released up to that time.\n\nAround the same time, Gudinski was convinced to sign expatriate New Zealand band Split Enz, who had recently relocated to Australia. Although they had only moderate success for the first few years, Split Enz scored huge success in 1980 with the release of their album \"True Colours\" and the hit single \"I Got You\", which marked the emergence of Neil Finn.\n\nIn 1977 Gudinski opened the music venue Bombay Bicycle Club in Bourke Street, Melbourne, soon moving it to Sydney Road Brunswick and renaming it Bombay Rock. This became one of the premier music venues of Australian and international rock bands in Melbourne.\n\nThrough his ownership of Consolidated Rock, which later evolved into the Premier Artists/Harbour Agency group, Gudinski became the major player on the Australian east coast booking circuit, and enjoyed a virtual monopoly on rock music bookings in Melbourne for much of the 1970s.\nIn partnership with others (including Frank Stivala, Philip Jacobsen and Ian James) he has diversified his business interests to include most sections of the music industry including venues, concert promoting, merchandise, publishing and recording.\n\nGudinski is often referred to as the \"father of the Australian music industry\" (a title he clearly enjoys). Gudinski has been a highly visible public figure throughout his career and he is probably the only Australian record company executive whose name is known by the general public.\n\nIn 1988, Gudinski co-founded Melodian Records with Ian Meldrum.\n\nIn the early 1990s Gudinski sold 49% of Mushroom to News Ltd, who had owned Australia's largest record label, Festival Records since 1961. In 1992 he was awarded an ARIA Award for Special Achievement (as well as Mushroom Records), while in 2013 he was acknowledged as the inaugural ARIA Industry Icon. At the APRA Music Awards of 1998 he won the Ted Albert Award for Outstanding Services to Australian Music. He controversially sold his remaining 51% share to News in 1999 for a reported A$60 million, claiming that the sale was a protest against the changes to Australia's parallel record importation regulations, a stance many saw as disingenuous and hypocritical.\n\nIn November 2005, shortly after the sale of Festival Mushroom's recording division to Warner Music Australia, Gudinski purchased Festival's publishing division for an undisclosed sum.\n\nIn 2017 Gudinski's business interests include:\n\n\nOn 12 June 2006, in the Queen's Birthday Honours List, he was made a Member (AM) of the Order of Australia.\n\n"}
{"id": "1942596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942596", "title": "Arthur Andersen LLP v. United States", "text": "Arthur Andersen LLP v. United States\n\nArthur Andersen LLP v. United States, 544 U.S. 696 (2005), was a United States Supreme Court case in which the Court unanimously overturned accounting firm Arthur Andersen's conviction of obstruction of justice in the fraudulent activities and subsequent collapse of Enron, on the basis that the jury instructions did not properly portray the law Arthur Andersen was charged with breaking. Even after the conviction was overturned, the damage to Arthur Andersen's reputation was such that it did not return as a viable business.\n\nDuring the fall of Enron, Arthur Andersen, Enron's accounting firm, instructed its employees to destroy documents relating to Enron after Andersen officials learned they would soon be investigated by the Securities and Exchange Commission. On March 6, 2002, a charge of obstructing an official proceeding of the Securities and Exchange Commission was filed against Arthur Andersen LLP in the United States District Court for the Southern District of Texas. The indictment was served by Michael Chertoff, who was subsequently appointed Secretary of Homeland Security by President George W. Bush. The jury found Arthur Andersen guilty on June 15. Since federal regulations do not allow convicted felons to audit public companies, Andersen surrendered its CPA license on August 31, effectively putting the firm out of business in the United States.\n\nAndersen appealed to the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit. The Fifth Circuit affirmed the district court's decision. Andersen petitioned for a writ of certiorari to the Supreme Court, which was granted.\n\nThe issue was whether the jury had been properly communicated the law which Andersen was charged with violating. They were charged under (b)(2)(A) and (B), which made it a crime to \"knowingly ... corruptly persuad[e] another person ... with intent to ... cause\" that person to \"withhold\" documents from, or \"alter\" documents for use in, an \"official proceeding\". Arthur Andersen believed the instructions given to the jury were not proper. The jury was reportedly told \"even if petitioner honestly and sincerely believed its conduct was lawful, the jury could convict\". This is not true, held the Supreme Court. The statute they were being charged under used the language \"knowingly ... corruptly persuade\". Arthur Andersen managers did instruct their employees to delete Enron-related files, but those actions were within their document retention policy. If the document retention policy was constructed to keep certain information private, even from the government, Arthur Andersen was still not corruptly persuading their employees to keep said information private.\n\nIn a unanimous decision by the Supreme Court, Arthur Andersen's conviction was overturned. Chief Justice William Rehnquist wrote the opinion for the court, and was joined by all associate justices.\n\nIn the court's view, the instructions allowed the jury to convict Andersen without proving that the firm knew it had broken the law or that there had been a link to any official proceeding that prohibited the destruction of documents. The instructions were so vague that they \"simply failed to convey the requisite consciousness of wrongdoing\", Rehnquist wrote. \"Indeed, it is striking how little culpability the instructions required.\" Rehnquist's opinion also expressed grave skepticism at the government's definition of \"corrupt persuasion\"—persuasion with an improper purpose even without knowing an act is unlawful. \"Only persons conscious of wrongdoing can be said to 'knowingly corruptly persuade,' \" he wrote.\n\n"}
{"id": "1942608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942608", "title": "WeatherBug", "text": "WeatherBug\n\nWeatherBug is a brand owned by GroundTruth, based in New York City, that provides location-based advertising solutions to businesses. WeatherBug consists of a mobile app reporting live and forecast data on hyperlocal weather to consumer users.\n\nOriginally owned by Automated Weather Source, the WeatherBug brand was founded by Bob Marshall and other partners in 1993. It started in the education market by selling weather tracking stations and educational software to public and private schools and then used the data from the stations on their website. Later, the company began partnering with TV stations so that broadcasters could use WeatherBug's local data and camera shots in their weather reports.\n\nIn 2000, the WeatherBug desktop application and website were launched. Later, the company launched WeatherBug and WeatherBug Elite as smartphone apps for iOS and Android, which won an APPY app design award in 2013. The company also sells a lightning tracking safety system that is used by schools and parks in southern Florida and elsewhere.\n\nThe company used lightning detection sensors throughout Guinea in Africa to track storms as they develop and has more than 50 lightning detection sensors in Brazil. Earth Networks received The Award for Outstanding Services to Meteorology by a Corporation in 2014 from the American Meteorological Society for \"developing innovative lightning detection data products that improve severe-storm monitoring and warnings.\"\n\nWeatherBug announced in 2004 it had been certified to display the TRUSTe privacy seal on its website. In 2005, Microsoft AntiSpyware flagged the application as a low-risk spyware threat. According to the company, the desktop application is not spyware because it is incapable of tracking users' overall Web use or deciphering anything on their hard drive.\n\nIn early 2011, AWS Convergence Technologies, Inc. (formerly Automated Weather Source) changed its name to Earth Networks, Inc.\n\nIn April 2012, WeatherBug was the second most popular weather information service on the Internet, behind only The Weather Channel's Web site, and ahead of the sites run by Weather Underground and AccuWeather.\n\nIn November 2016, it was announced that xAd acquired WeatherBug from Earth Networks.\n\nThe company developed \"WeatherBug\", a mobile application of their service for Android, iOS and Windows Phone platforms. Spark is a component of the WeatherBug app that reports where the nearest lightning strike is to you, based on data from the Total Lightning Network (run by WeatherBug's former owner, Earth Networks) and your phone's GPS location.\n\nWeatherBug is a mobile application created by WeatherBug for Android and iOS platforms. An iPhone version was available in October 2007, and the Android version was released in November 2008.\n"}
{"id": "1942609", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942609", "title": "Nariaki Nakayama", "text": "Nariaki Nakayama\n\nGraduating from the Faculty of Law at the University of Tokyo in 1966, Nakayama joined the Ministry of Finance. In 1986 he was elected to the House of Representatives for the first time, and in September 2004, he became the Minister of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology. He is married to Kyoko Nakayama, also a conservative politician.\n\nNakayama is affiliated to Nippon Kaigi.\n\nWhen he was a member of the Liberal Democratic Party, Nakayama was prominent in efforts to censor sections of junior high textbooks in Japan that made references to comfort women. In 2013, he continues to deny that women were forced to work in brothels during wartime. He claims that the Nanjing Massacre was a complete fabrication, was a supporter of right-wing filmmaker Satoru Mizushima's 2007 film The Truth about Nanjing, which denied that the massacre ever occurred. During the first administration of Prime Minister Shinzō Abe Nakayama made efforts to revise the Kono statement of 1993.\n\nHe has continued to express Japanese conservative vision of history.\n\nIn the Cabinet of Prime Minister Taro Aso, appointed on 24 September 2008, Nakayama was appointed as Minister of Construction and Transport. He made several controversial statements since his appointment, such as saying: \"I will stand at the forefront to destroy the Japan Teachers' Union, which is a cancer for Japanese education\". In a press conference related to his Minister of Tourism portfolio, he declared that Japan is basically \"ethnically homogeneous,\" which greatly angered the Ainu, an indigenous ethnic minority living mostly in Northern Japan. He also said that Japanese people \"do not like nor desire foreigners\". He resigned on 27 September 2008.\n\nIn the 2009 general election the LDP was reluctant to run Nakayama as a candidate. He ran as an independent and lost his seat.\n\nOn 21 June 2010 Nakayama and his wife Kyoko announced that they would move from the Liberal Democratic Party to the Sunrise Party of Japan. He ran for the House of Councilors in the July 11 2010 election, but was not elected. The Sunrise Party became part of the Japan Restoration Party, and Nariaki returned to the Diet in the 2012 general election. When Shintaro Ishihara's group left that party to form the Party for Future Generations he and his wife went too. He lost his seat again in the 2014 general election.\n\n"}
{"id": "1942619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942619", "title": "Malhi", "text": "Malhi\n\nMalhi is a surname native to the Punjab region of India and Pakistan.\n\nPeople with this surname include:\n\n"}
{"id": "1942620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942620", "title": "Li Jing (Tang dynasty)", "text": "Li Jing (Tang dynasty)\n\nLi Jing (571 – July 2, 649), courtesy name Yaoshi, posthumously known as Duke Jingwu of Wei (also spelled as Duke of Wey), was a Chinese general who lived in the early Tang dynasty and was most active during the reign of Emperor Taizong. In 630, Li Jing defeated the Göktürks, led by Jiali Khan, with just 3,000 cavalry soldiers in a surprise attack, allowing the Tang Empire to subjugate the Göktürks and reduce them to the status of a vassal under the Tang Empire. Li Jing and Li Shiji are considered the two most prominent early Tang generals.\n\nLi Jing was born in 571, during Sui Dynasty's predecessor state Northern Zhou. His clan was from the Chang'an region. His grandfather Li Chongyi (李崇義) served as a provincial governor during Northern Wei, and his father Li Quan (李詮) served as a commandery governor during Sui. In his youth, Li Jing was said to be handsome and ambitious, and was talented both in literary and military matters. His maternal uncle was the great Sui general Han Qinhu (韓擒虎), and it was said that Han was impressed by his talent, stating, \"You are the only person that I can talk to about Sun Tzu's and Wu Qi's strategies.\"\n\nEarly in his career, Li Jing served as a minor county official for Chang'an county—one of the two counties within Chang'an, which served as Sui's capital. He later served as a low level official within the imperial administration, and it was said that he impressed both the prime minister Yang Su and the important minister Niu Hong (牛弘).\n\nNear the end of the reign of Emperor Yang, Li Jing served as the Vice Prefect of Mayi Commandery (馬邑, roughly modern Shuozhou, Shanxi), when he served under the general Li Yuan the Duke of Tang, who was in charge of the nearby important city of Taiyuan (太原, in modern Taiyuan, Shanxi) against Eastern Tujue forces. Li Jing came to suspect that Li Yuan was plotting a rebellion, and therefore pretended to commit a crime and asked to be locked up and delivered to Emperor Yang, who was then at Jiangdu (江都, in modern Yangzhou, Jiangsu). However, he was first delivered to Chang'an, and then, as nearly the entire Sui state was engulfed in agrarian rebellions at that time, there was no way to deliver him to Jiangdu from there.\n\nIn 617, Li Yuan indeed rebelled, and soon captured Chang'an, declaring Emperor Yang's grandson Yang You the Prince of Dai emperor (as Emperor Gong) but seizing power as regent. Knowing that Li Jing was planning to report his plans to Emperor Yang, Li Yuan set to execute him. At the execution, Li Jing yelled, \"You, duke, rose in order to eliminate tyrannical rule for the people. You are not concerned about what is important, but instead are executing a brave man on account of personal enmity!\" Li Yuan was impressed by his words, and Li Yuan's son Li Shimin interceded on Li Jing's behalf. Li Yuan released Li Jing, whom Li Shimin soon retained Li Jing to serve on his staff.\n\nIn 618, after news arrived at Chang'an that Emperor Yang was killed in a coup at Jiangdu led by the general Yuwen Huaji, Li Yuan had Yang You yield the throne to him, establishing Tang Dynasty as its Emperor Gaozu. Li Jing continued serving the new dynasty. In 619, Li Jing participated in a campaign against one of Tang's major enemies, Wang Shichong the Emperor of Zheng, and was promoted for his accomplishments. Later that year, Emperor Gaozu sent him to Kui Prefecture (夔州, modern eastern Chongqing) to plan a military operation against another major enemy, Xiao Xian the Emperor of Liang, who then ruled the modern Hubei, Hunan, and Guangxi region. When he first reached Jin Prefecture (金州, roughly modern Ankang, Shaanxi), he encountered bandits in the mountain, who had several times defeated Li Yuàn (李瑗, note different tone and character than Emperor Gaozu's name (淵, yuān)) the Prince of Lujiang (Emperor Gaozu's distant nephew). Li Jing joined forces with Li Yuàn to defeat those bandits. However, as he arrived at the borders with Liang, he was blocked by Liang forces and long could not reach there, having to stop at Xia Prefecture (峽州, roughly modern Yichang, Hubei). Emperor Gaozu, believing that Li Jing was intentionally not advancing, was sufficiently angry that he secretly ordered the commandant at Xia Prefecture, Xu Shao (許紹), to execute Li Jing. Xu, however, was appreciative of Li Jing's talent, and submitted a petition urging that Li Jing be spared, and Emperor Gaozu relented. Meanwhile, in spring 620, around the same time, Ran Zhaoze (冉肇則) the leader of the Kaishan Tribe (開山蠻), rebelled against Tang rule and attacked Kui Prefecture. When Emperor Gaozu's distant nephew Li Xiaogong the Duke of Zhao Commandery fought Ran, he was initially unsuccessful, but Li Jing reinforced him with 800 men and defeated and killed Ran.\n\nIn 621, Li Jing submitted 10 strategies against Liang, and Li Xiaogong submitted them to Emperor Gaozu. Emperor Gaozu approved of Li Jing's plans, and made Li Jing Li Xiaogong's assistant in the campaign against Liang. It was said that as Li Xiaogong was still inexperienced, Emperor Gaozu actually put Li Jing in charge of most of the operations, although Li Xiaogong was formally commander of the operations.\n\nIn fall 621, Emperor Gaozu commissioned Li Xiaogong, with Li Jing as his assistant, to launch a major attack on Xiao Xian's Liang state, with Li Yuàn and the other generals Tian Shikang (田世康) and Zhou Faming (周法明) attacking on other fronts. At that time, the Yangtze River had a high water level and was flowing rapidly. While many officers under him suggested delaying the campaign, Li Jing suggested to Li Xiaogong that the rapid water was a good opportunity to launch a surprise attack on Xiao Xian's capital Jiangling (江陵, in modern Jingzhou, Hubei). After defeating the Liang general Wen Shihong (文士弘), Li Xiaogong put Jiangling under siege, cutting off Xiao Xian's communications with the armies in the rest of his territory. Li Jing suggested floating the Liang ships that they captured down the Yangtze, to confuse the approaching Liang relief forces into believing that Jiangling had fallen already. Xiao, not knowing that the relief forces were only a few days away, surrendered to Li Xiaogong. By the suggestion of Li Jing and Xiao's official Cen Wenben, who had persuaded Xiao to surrender, Li Xiaogong strictly prohibited pillaging and retribution against Liang generals. The Liang provinces, upon hearing the news of Jiangling's fall, soon largely submitted to Tang. Li Xiaogong delivered Xiao to Chang'an, where Emperor Gaozu executed him. For his accomplishments, Li Jing was created the Duke of Yongkang. Subsequently, Emperor Gaozu commissioned Li Jing to head south to persuade the modern Guangdong and Guangxi region, which had submitted to Xiao Xian and another rebel ruler, Lin Shihong the Emperor of Chu, to submit to Tang. Li Jing advanced to Gui Prefecture (桂州, roughly modern Guilin, Guangxi) and was able to persuade several of the most major warlords of the region, including Feng Ang (馮盎), Li Guangdu (李光度), and Ning Zhenzhang (甯真長) to submit to Tang. Subsequently, Li Jing was made the commandant at Gui Prefecture.\n\nIn fall 623, the Tang general Fu Gongshi, who had served as the deputy of the powerful general Li Fuwei the Prince of Wu as the military governor of the lower Yangtze region, rebelled against Tang rule while Li Fuwei was at Chang'an, declaring himself the Emperor of Song. Emperor Gaozu commissioned Li Xiaogong to attack Fu, again making Li Jing Li Xiaogong's assistant, and also sending other generals Huang Junhan (黃君漢) and Li Shiji to attack Fu from other fronts. Li Xiaogong and Li Jing sailed down the Yangtze, attacking and defeating the Song generals at multiple battles. Fu ordered his generals Feng Huiliang (馮慧亮) and Chen Dangshi (陳當世) to take up position at Mount Bowang (博望山, in modern Ma'anshan, Anhui, preparing for the assault, instructing Feng and Chen not to engage Li Xiaogong, but to wear him down. However, Li Xiaogong, under Li Jing's suggestion, cut off their supply route, and when Feng and Chen's food supplies ran low, they challenged Li Xiaogong. Against suggestions by some officers that he bypass Feng and Chen and attack the Song capital Danyang (丹楊, in modern Nanjing, Jiangsu) directly, Li Xiaogong, again with Li Jing's suggestion, confronted Feng and Chen, initially using the weaker segment of his forces to battle Feng and Chen and, after initial losses, draw Feng and Chen in deeper, and then attacked them, defeating them decisively, with the aid of Li Fuwei's subordinate general Kan Leng (闞稜). After the victory, Li Xiaogong and Li Jing attacked Danyang. Fu, in fear, abandoned Danyang and fled east, but was captured by the local men and delivered to Danyang. Emperor Gaozu, praising Li Jing, made the comment: \"Li Jing is the fatal illness for Xiao and Fu. How could even Han Xin, Bai Qi, Wei Qing, or Huo Qubing exceed him?\" Subsequently, Li Xiaogong was put in charge of the region, and Li Jing served as his assistant. it was said that Li Jing contributed much in pacifying the region after the region had seen much bloodshed for years.\n\nIn 625, Eastern Tujue attacked Taiyuan, and Li Jing led some of his troops north to resist Eastern Tujue. It was said that all of the other Tang generals were defeated by Eastern Tujue forces, but Li Jing was able to preserve his troops. In 626, when Eastern Tujue attacked again, Li Jing was made the commandant at Ling Prefecture (靈州, roughly modern Yinchuan, Ningxia), and he tried to cut off Eastern Tujue's return path, although soon Tang and Eastern Tujue made peace. It was said that at this time that Li Shimin, then engaged in an intense rivalry with his older brother Li Jiancheng the Crown Prince and fearing that Li Jiancheng might be intending to kill him, solicited advice from Li Jing and Li Shiji, and both refused to speak on the matter, drawing respect from Li Shimin for their unwillingness to be involved in an internecine struggle. In 626, Li Shimin set a show down for Li Jiancheng and another brother, Li Yuanji the Prince of Qi at Xuanwu Gate, killing them, and then effectively forced Emperor Gaozu to create him crown prince and then pass the throne to him (as Emperor Taizong).\n\nLi Jing continued to serve in Emperor Taizong's administration, and was soon made the minister of justice. In 628, in addition to that post, he also became acting \"Zhongshu Ling\" (中書令) -- the head of the legislative bureau of the government (中書省, \"Zhongshu Sheng\"), a post considered one for a chancellor. In 629, he was made the minister of war.\n\nAround the new year 630, with Eastern Tujue in internal turmoil, with its Jiali Khan Ashina Duobi attacking his nephew and subordinate khan, the Tuli Khan Ashina Shibobi (阿史那什鉢苾), Emperor Taizong commissioned Li Jing, Li Shiji, Wei Xiaojie, Li Daozong, Chai Shao (柴紹), and Xue Wanche (薛萬徹) to attack Eastern Tujue, with Li Jing in overall command. Li launched his attack in a surprise manner, from Mayi through Wuyang Range (惡陽嶺, in modern southern Hohhot, Inner Mongolia), capturing the important city of Dingxiang (定襄, in modern Hohhot). In fear, Ashina Duobi retreated to Qikou (磧口, in modern Xilin Gol League, Inner Mongolia). Li Jing then sent secret messengers to persuade his associate to surrender. One of them, Kangsumi (康蘇密), took Emperor Yang's wife Empress Xiao and their grandson Yang Zhengdao (楊政道), whom Eastern Tujue had created the Prince of Sui, and surrendered to Li Jing. Ashina Duobi sent messengers to Emperor Taizong, offering to submit and to pay homage to him later, but was still considering fleeing further with his forces. Emperor Taizong sent the official Tang Jian (唐儉) as an envoy to Ashina Duobi, but also ordered Li Jing to escort Ashina Duobi. Li Jing, reading between the lines and believing that Emperor Taizong's order was to \"attack\" Ashina Duobi, after joining forces with Li Shiji, launched the attack. They defeated and captured most of Ashina Duobi's remaining forces and killed his wife, Sui's Princess Yicheng. Ashina Duobi fled further, and was soon captured by the generals Li Daozong and Zhang Baoxiang (張寶相). Eastern Tujue's nobles all submitted to Tang. In recognition of Li Jing's great victory, Emperor Taizong issued a general pardon and ordered his people to feast for five days. He also created Li Jing the greater title of Duke of Dai.\n\nWhen Li Jing returned to the capital, however, the imperial censor Xiao Yu accused him of allowing his soldiers to plunder the Eastern Tujue treasury. Emperor Taizong rebuked Li Jing, but still increased the size of his fief and awarded him with silk. Later, regretting rebuking Li Jing, he stated to Li Jing, \"People have accused you to hurt you. I realize this now. Please do not mind it.\" He awarded Li Jing with even more silk. Later in 630, he made Li Jing \"Shangshu Pushe\" (尚書僕射), the head of the important executive bureau of government (尚書省, \"Shangshu Sheng\"), also a chancellor post. It was said that Li Jing spoke very little when conferencing with other chancellors—then considered a virtue. A more plausible explanation is that Taizong didn't trust his high officials, especially the generals, and Li Jing was very sure about it. He deliberately tried to keep a low profile in order not to raise Taizong's suspicion.\n\nIn 634, Emperor Taizong wanted to send some officials to examine the circuits in the empire, to see whether the local officials were capable, to find out whether the people were suffering, to comfort the poor, and to select capable people to serve in civil service. Li Jing recommended Wei Zheng, but Emperor Taizong, believing that he needed Wei to stay at Chang'an to examine his own faults, declined, instead sending Li Jing and 12 other officials to the circuits to examine them. Li Jing's zone was Ji'nei Circuit (畿內道, roughly modern Shaanxi). After this tour, Li Jing, giving the reason that he had a foot illness, requested to retire. Emperor Taizong agreed, but still ordered that he maintain a staff and that, once he got better, he should visit the legislative and examination (門下省, \"Menxia Sheng\") bureaus every two or three days to serve as an alternative head of those bureaus.\nLater in 634, Tuyuhun attacked Tang. Emperor Taizong was considering whom to send as the commander of the counterattacking force, and he made the comment, \"It would have been wonderful to have Li Jing as commander.\" When Li Jing heard this, he personally met with the chancellor Fang Xuanling and offered to be the commander. Emperor Taizong was pleased, and made Li Jing the commander, assisted by the other generals Hou Junji, Li Daozong, Li Daliang, Li Daoyan (李道彥), and Gao Zengsheng (高甑生). Tang forces achieved initial victories against Tuyuhun forces; in response, Tuyuhun burned the grass on grazing fields to try to cut off the Tang horses' food supplies, and the Tang generals mostly believed that they should retreat them. Hou advocated attacking, however, and Li jing agreed, pushing deep into Tuyuhun territory and greatly defeating them, capturing the wives and sons of Tuyuhun's Busabo Khan Murong Fuyun. Murong Fuyun's son Murong Shun surrendered, and Murong Fuyun was soon killed by his subordinates. Emperor Taizong created Murong Shun the new khan, and Tang forces largely withdrew, although Li Daliang remained.\n\nDuring the campaign, on one occasion, Li Jing rebuked Gao for arriving late, but did not punish him. Gao nevertheless was displeased with Li Jing's rebuke, and he and the official Tang Fengyi (唐奉義) accused Li Jing of plotting treason. The matter was investigated, and the evidence was found lacking. Gao and Tang were accused of false accusations and exiled, notwithstanding pleas by others that Gao contributed to Emperor Taizong's ambush at Xuanwu Gate against Li Jiancheng. However, from this point on, Li Jing refused to receive guests, and he even did not see his relatives often.\n\nIn 637, as a part of Emperor Taizong's scheme to bestow prefectures on his relatives and great generals and officials as their permanent domains, Li Jing's title was changed to Duke of Wei, and he was given the post of prefect of Pu Prefecture (濮州, roughly modern Heze, Shandong), to be inherited by his heirs. Soon, however, with many objections to the system, the strongest of which came from Zhangsun Wuji, Emperor Taizong cancelled the scheme, although Li Jing's title remained Duke of Wei. In 640, Li Jing's wife died, and Emperor Taizong ordered that a large tomb, made in the shape of Mount Tie (鐵山) in Eastern Tujue territory and Mount Jishi (積石山) in Tuyuhun territory, under the precedents that the great Han Dynasty generals Wei Qing and Huo Qubing had their tombs built in the shapes of mountains in Xiongnu territory to commemorate their victories, be constructed for Li Jing's wife (as Li Jing would eventually be buried there as well). In 643, when Emperor Taizong commissioned the Portraits at Lingyan Pavilion to commemorate the 24 great contributors to Tang rule, Li Jing's portrait was one of the 24.\n\nIn 644, when Emperor Taizong was set to attack Goguryeo, he summoned Li Jing to consult his opinion. Emperor Taizong stated to him:\n\nLi Jing responded:\n\nEmperor Taizong, however, saw that Li Jing was ill and decided not to send him. Emperor Taizong later personally led a largely unsuccessful attack on Goguryeo. Li Jing died in 649—briefly before Emperor Taizong's own death—and was buried with great honor, near Emperor Taizong's own tomb.\n\nAs one of the best generals and strategists of Tang Dynasty remaining undefeated in career, Li Jing wrote several books about military doctrines. Although most of his work is not preserved today, fractions of them were cited by Tongdian, an encyclopedia about historic politic system in China. One of the Seven Military Classics of China, \"Duke Li of Wei Answering Emperor Taizong of Tang\" (唐太宗李衛公問對/唐太宗李卫公问对, \"Táng Tàizōng Lǐ Wèigōng Wènduì\"), is a purported dialogue between Li Jing and Emperor Taizong about the strategies, policies, tactics. They criticised The Art of war, Zhuge liang strategies book and New Book of Mengde. The work is attributed to Li Jing, although many modern scholars doubt the attribution, as neither the \"Old Book of Tang\" nor the \"New Book of Tang\" mentions the work in their biographies of Li Jing.\n\nLi Jing appears in many Chinese folk tales and novels. Many of his legends were recorded in Taiping Guangji (太平廣記), a record of stories in Song Dynasty. The novel \"Romance of Sui and Tang\" (隋唐演義), written by the Qing Dynasty author Chu Renhuo (褚人獲), for example, Li was prominently featured. The novel that most prominently features Li, however, was the late Tang Dynasty short story \"Biography of the Dragon-Beard Man\" (虬髯客傳), written by the official Du Guangting (杜光庭), which featured, as its three central characters, Li, his purported wife Zhang Chuchen (張出塵), and an ambitious man who taught Li military strategies, known only as the \"Dragon-Beard Man.\" There is no evidence to show that any of the fictional treatments of Li's life had bases in fact. The novel \"Fengshen Yanyi\" also had a substantial character named Li Jing, apparently borrowing a number of the real Li's personal characteristics, but as the \"Fengshen Yanyi\" was set near the end of the legendary Shang Dynasty, more than 2,000 years before the historical Li Jing, it was not actually referring to the same person.\n\n"}
{"id": "1942621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942621", "title": "Doublet (clothing)", "text": "Doublet (clothing)\n\nA doublet (derived from the Ital. \"giubbetta\") is a man's snug-fitting jacket that is shaped and fitted to the man's body which was worn in Spain and was spread to Western Europe from the late Middle Ages up to the mid-17th century. The doublet was hip length or waist length and worn over the shirt or drawers. Until the end of the 15th century, the doublet was usually worn under another layer of clothing such as a gown, mantle, overtunic or jerkin when in public.\n\nOriginally it was a mere stitched and quilted lining (\"doubling\"), worn under a hauberk or cuirass to prevent bruising and chafing. Doublets were sometimes opened to the waistline in a deep V. The edges might be left free or laced across the shirt front. If there was space left it might be filled with a stomacher. By the 1520s, the edges of the doublet more frequently met at the center front. Then, like many other originally practical items in the history of men's wear, from the late 15th century onward it became elaborated enough to be seen on its own. \n\nThroughout the 300 years of its use, the doublet served the same purpose: to give fashionable shape and padding to the body, to support the hose by providing ties, and to provide warmth to the body. The only things that changed about the doublet over its history was its style and cut. It was fashionable until the 1600s.\n\nThe doublet developed from the padded garments worn under armour, such as the gambeson, aketon, and arming doublet.\n\nDoublets of the 14th and 15th centuries were generally hip-length, sometimes shorter, worn over the shirt and hose, with a houppelande or other form of overgown.\n\nFrom the late 14th century, doublets were cut and padded to give the wearer an egg-shaped or pigeon-breasted silhouette, a fashion that gradually died out in favor of a flatter natural fit.\n\nThrough the Tudor period, fashionable doublets remained close-fitting with baggy sleeves, and elaborate surface decoration such as \"pinks\" (patterns of small cuts in the fabric), slashes, embroidery, and applied braid.\n\nIn the early Elizabethan period, doublets were padded over the belly with bombast in a \"pouter pigeon\" or \"peascod\" silhouette. Sleeve attachments at the shoulder were disguised by decorative \"wings\", \"tabs\", or piccadills, and short skirt-like peplums or piccadills covered the waist of the hose or breeches. Padding gradually fell out of fashion again, and the doublet became close-fitting with a deep V-waistline.\n\"More images:\"\n\nBy the 17th century, doublets were short-waisted. A typical sleeve of this period was full and slashed to show the shirt beneath; a later style was full and \"paned\" or slashed to just below the elbow and snug below. Decorative ribbon \"points\" were pulled through eyelets on the breeches and the waist of the doublet to keep the breeches in place, and were tied in elaborate bows.\n\nThe doublet fell permanently out of fashion in the mid-17th century when Louis XIV of France and Charles II of England established a court costume for men consisting of a long coat, a waistcoat, a cravat, a wig, and breeches—the ancestor of the modern suit.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1942626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942626", "title": "Manipulator (device)", "text": "Manipulator (device)\n\nIn robotics, a manipulator is a device used to manipulate materials without direct physical contact by the operator. The applications were originally for dealing with radioactive or biohazardous materials, using robotic arms, or they were used in inaccessible places. In more recent developments they have been used in diverse range of applications including welding automation, robotic surgery and in space. It is an arm-like mechanism that consists of a series of segments, usually sliding or jointed called cross-slides, which grasp and move objects with a number of degrees of freedom.\n\nIn industrial ergonomics a manipulator is a lift-assist device used to help workers lift, maneuver and place articles in process that are too heavy, too hot, too large or otherwise too difficult for a single worker to manually handle. As opposed to simply vertical lift assists (cranes, hoists, etc.) manipulators have the ability to reach in to tight spaces and remove workpieces. A good example would be removing large stamped parts from a press and placing them in a rack or similar dunnage. In welding, a column boom manipulator is used to increase deposition rates, reduce human error and other costs in a manufacturing setting.\n\nAdditionally, manipulator tooling gives the lift assist the ability to pitch, roll, or spin the part for appropriate placement. An example would be removing a part from a press in the horizontal and then pitching it up for vertical placement in a rack or rolling a part over for exposing the back of the part.\n\nOne of the types of manipulators is balanced manipulator type MSP-250, controlled by the operator's hand. Such manipulators are used in various industries. Where there are special requirements to protect against fire and explosion, they may be driven by compressed air.\n\nA welding manipulator can be either open arc or submerged arc. A welding manipulator can be used to weld horizontally and vertically and is ideal for job shops as they are robust, have high production volume capacity and a greater degree of flexibility in product engineering. Welding manipulators are commonly used in pipe and vessel fabrication but can be used in a cladding procedure with the aid of a proper welding fixture.\n\nExamples of robotic manipulators are:\n\n"}
{"id": "1942629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942629", "title": "Doublet (lapidary)", "text": "Doublet (lapidary)\n\nA doublet is a type of assembled gem composed in two sections. It is sometimes used to imitate other, more expensive gems.\n\nA garnet and glass doublet uses a top portion of natural garnet fused to any color of glass to imitate a gem. The color of glass used in the doublet is all that is seen, as the garnet provides no color. If seen in reflected light, a separation line may be seen. A harder garnet makes the stones more durable. In the case of opal doublets, a backing layer of onyx or matrix (ironstone) gives the more fragile opal layer support and can make the opal look darker and higher quality.\n\nGarnet and glass doublets were first used around 1850 when it was noted that molten glass would adhere to garnet. It was a popular imitation for all types of gems in many colors because the color of the glass became the only color that could be seen. They were still being produced into the early 1900s until actual synthetic gems were introduced.\n"}
{"id": "1942635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942635", "title": "Doublet (lens)", "text": "Doublet (lens)\n\nIn optics, a doublet is a type of lens made up of two simple lenses paired together. Such an arrangement allows more optical surfaces, thicknesses, and formulations, especially as the space between lenses may be considered an \"element\". With additional degrees of freedom, optical designers have more latitude to correct more optical aberrations more thoroughly.\n\nDoublets can come in many forms, though most commercial doublets are achromats, which are optimized to reduce chromatic aberration while also reducing spherical aberration and other optical aberrations. The lenses are made from glasses with different refractive indices and different amounts of dispersion. Often one element is made from crown glass and the other from flint glass. This combination produces a better image than a simple lens. Some Trilobites, which are now extinct, had natural doublet lenses in their eyes. Apochromats can also be made as doublets.\n\nDoublets can be air-spaced, cemented, or \"oiled\". Oiled doublets hold the optical fluid in place with surface tension alone. In a cemented doublet, the lenses are held together by an adhesive with mechanical strength, such as optically transparent epoxy. Canada balsam was traditionally used for this purpose. Some doublets use no adhesive between the lenses, relying on external fixturing to hold them together, either because the optical design requires a gap or because thermal expansion differences between the two lenses won't allow cementing. These are called \"un-cemented\", \"air-spaced\" or \"broken contact\" doublets. A sub-type of air-spaced doublet is the dialyte, a design where elements are widely spaced to save on the amount of glass used or where the elements cannot be cemented because they have strongly dissimilar curvatures.\n\n"}
{"id": "1942639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942639", "title": "Doublet (linguistics)", "text": "Doublet (linguistics)\n\nIn etymology, two or more words in the same language are called doublets or etymological twins or twinlings (or possibly triplets, and so forth) when they have different phonological forms but the same etymological root. Often, but not always, the words entered the language through different routes. Given that the kinship between words that have the same root and the same meaning is fairly obvious, the term is mostly used to characterize pairs of words that have diverged at least somewhat in meaning. For example, English \"pyre\" and \"fire\" are doublets with merely associated meanings despite both descending ultimately from the same Proto-Indo-European (PIE) word *\"\".\n\nWords with similar meanings but subtle differences contribute to the richness of modern English, and many of these are doublets. A good example consists of the doublets \"frail\" and \"fragile\". (These are both ultimately from the Latin adjective \"\", but \"frail\" evolved naturally through its slowly changing forms in Old French and Middle English, whereas \"fragile\" is a learned borrowing directly from Latin in the 15th century.)\n\nAnother example of nearly synonymous doublets is \"aperture\" and \"overture\" (the commonality behind the meanings is \"opening\"). But doublets may develop divergent meanings, such as the \"opposite\" words \"host\" and \"guest\", which come from the same PIE word *' and already existed as a doublet in Latin ' and then Old French, before being borrowed into English. Doublets also vary with respect to how far their forms have diverged. For example, the connection between \"levy\" and \"levee\" is easy to guess, whereas the connection between \"sovereign\" and \"soprano\", or ' and ', is harder to guess.\n\nDoublets can develop in various ways, according to which route the two forms took from the origin to their current form. Complex, multi-step paths are possible, though in many cases groups of terms follow the same path. Simple paths are discussed below, with the simplest distinction being that doublets in a given language can have their root in the same language (or an ancestor), or may originate in a separate language.\n\nMost simply, a native word can at some point split into two distinct forms, staying within a single language, as with English \"too\" which split from \"to\".\n\nAlternatively, a word may be inherited from a parent language, and a cognate borrowed from a separate sister language. In other words, one route was direct inheritance, while the other route was inheritance followed by borrowing. In English this means one word inherited from a Germanic source, with, e.g., a Latinate cognate term borrowed from Latin or a Romance language. In English this is most common with words which can be traced back to Indo-European languages, which in many cases share the same proto-Indo-European root, such as Romance \"beef\" and Germanic \"cow\". However, in some cases the branching is more recent, dating only to proto-Germanic, not to PIE; many words of Germanic origin occur in French and other Latinate languages, and hence in some cases were both inherited by English (from proto-Germanic) and borrowed from French or another source – see List of English Latinates of Germanic origin. The forward linguistic path also reflects cultural and historical transactions; often the name of an animal comes from Germanic while the name of its cooked meat comes from Romance. Since English is unusual in that it borrowed heavily from two distinct branches of the same language family tree – Germanic and Latinate/Romance – it has a relatively high number of this latter type of etymological twin. See list of Germanic and Latinate equivalents in English for further examples and discussion.\n\nLess commonly, a native word may be borrowed into a foreign language, then reborrowed back into the original language, existing alongside the original term. An English example is \"animation\" and \"anime\" \"Japanese animation\", which was reborrowed from Japanese '. Such a word is sometimes called a ' (German for \"one who wanders back\").\n\nIn case of twins of foreign origin, which consist of two borrowings (of related terms), one can distinguish if the borrowing is of a term and a descendant, or of two cognate terms (siblings).\n\nEtymological twins are often a result of chronologically separate borrowing from a source language. In the case of English, this usually means once from French during the Norman invasion, and again later, after the word had evolved separately in French. An example of this is \"warranty\" and \"guarantee\".\n\nAnother possibility is borrowing from both a language and its daughter language. In English this is usually Latin and some other Romance language, particularly French – see Latin influence in English. The distinction between this and the previous is whether the source language has changed to a different language or not.\n\nLess directly, a term may be borrowed both directly from a source language and indirectly via an intermediate language. In English this is most common in borrowings from Latin, and borrowings from French that are themselves from Latin; less commonly from Greek directly and through Latin.\n\nIn case of borrowing cognate terms, rather than descendants, most simply an existing doublet can be borrowed: two contemporary twin terms can be borrowed.\n\nMore remotely, cognate terms from different languages can be borrowed, such as \"sauce\" (Old French) and \"salsa\" (Spanish), both ultimately from Latin, or \"tea\" (Dutch \"\") and \"chai\" (Hindi), both ultimately from Chinese. This last pair reflects the history of how tea has entered English via different trade routes.\n\nMany thousands of English examples can be found, grouped according to their earliest deducible Indo-European ancestor. In some cases over a hundred English words can be traced to a single root. Some examples in English include:\n\n\nThere are many more doublets from Greek, where one form is a vernacular borrowing, and the other a learned borrowing, such as \"scandal\" and \"slander\", both from σκάνδαλον.\n\nMany words of French origin were borrowed twice or more. There were at least three periods of borrowing: One that occurred shortly after the Norman Conquest and came from Norman French, one in the thirteenth and fourteenth centuries from standard (Parisian) French at the time when English nobles were switching from French to English, and a third one during the sixteenth to nineteenth century, when France was at the height of its power and international influence. Examples of doublets from the first and second periods are \"catch\" vs. \"chase\", \"cattle\" vs. \"chattel\", and \"warden\" vs. \"guardian\". More recent borrowings are often distinguished by maintaining the French spelling and pronunciation, e.g. \"chef\" (vs. \"chief\"), \"pâté\" (vs. \"paste\"), \"fête\" (vs. \"feast\"). There are multiple doublets caused by the \"w\" → \"g\" and \"ca\" → \"cha\" sound changes, which happened in standard French but not Norman French. Several of these examples also reflect changes that occurred after Old French which caused the possible environments of to be greatly reduced.\n\nDerivative cognates are a classification of Chinese characters which have similar meanings and often the same etymological root, but which have diverged in pronunciation and meaning. An example is the doublet and . At one time they were pronounced similarly and meant \"old (person).\" ( in Standard Mandarin) has retained this meaning, but now mainly means \"examine\".\n\nDiffering literary and colloquial readings of certain Chinese characters are common doublets in many Chinese varieties, and the reading distinctions for certain phonetic features often typify a dialect group. \nFor a given Chinese variety, colloquial readings typically reflect native vernacular phonology. Literary readings are used in some formal settings (recitation, some loanwords and names) and originate from other, typically more prestigious varieties. \nSometimes literary and colloquial readings of the same character have different meanings. For example, in Cantonese, the character can have the colloquial pronunciation (\"inexpensive\"), and the literary pronunciation (\"flat\").\n\nThe words \"píosa\" and \"cuid\" (both meaning \"part\" or \"portion\") form an Irish doublet, both from the Proto-Celtic root *\"kʷesdis\". This root became in Gaulish *\"pettyā\", then was borrowed into Late Latin as \"pettia\", Anglo-Norman \"piece\", then Middle English \"pece\", before being borrowed into Middle Irish as \"pissa\", which became modern \"píosa\". In Old Irish, *\"kʷesdis\" became \"cuit\", which in modern Irish is \"cuid\".\n\nIn Japanese, doublets are most significant in borrowings from Chinese, and are visible as different on'yomi (Sino-Japanese readings) of kanji characters. There have been three major periods of borrowing from Chinese, together with some modern borrowings. These borrowings are from different regions (hence different Chinese varieties) and different periods, and thus the pronunciations have varied, sometimes widely. However, due to consistent Chinese writing, with cognate morphemes represented by the same character, the etymological relation is clear. This is most significant at the level of morphemes, where a given character is pronounced differently in different words, but in some cases the same word was borrowed twice. These have been very valuable to scholars for reconstructing the sounds of Middle Chinese, and understanding how the pronunciations differed between Chinese regions and varied over time.\n\nIn Hindi and other New Indo-Aryan languages, members of native doublets are identified as either ' ('became that'), which is ultimately derived from Sanskrit but underwent changes through time, or ' ('same as that'), which is borrowed directly from literary Sanskrit. For example, Hindi ' 'tiger' is derived by historical stages () from Sanskrit ' 'tiger'. Meanwhile, Hindi has also directly borrowed () the Sanskrit word \", meaning 'tiger' in a more literary register.\n\n\n\nAs with many languages in Europe, a great deal of borrowing from written Latin – ' (Latinisms), or ' (learnèd words) – occurred during the Renaissance and the early modern era. Because Spanish is itself a Romance language already with many native words of Latin ancestry (transmitted orally, so with natural sound changes), the later written borrowing created a number of doublets. Adding to this was Spain's conquest by the Moors in the Middle Ages, leading to another vector for creating doublets (Latin to Arabic to Spanish).\n\n"}
{"id": "1942640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942640", "title": "Michelle Royer", "text": "Michelle Royer\n\nMichelle Renee Royer-Jefferson (born January 5, 1966) is an American TV Host and beauty queen who won Miss USA 1987 and second runner-up to Miss Universe 1987.\n\nPrior to competing in Miss Texas USA, Jefferson grew up in Keller, Texas, attended Keller High School where she was active in the high school band program, serving as drum major. She continued her education at Texas Wesleyan University. She is the daughter of a salesman, who changed jobs frequently.\n\nJefferson won the title of Miss Texas USA as the representative of Keller in August 1986 and was crowned Miss USA in February 1987, becoming the third of five consecutive winners from Texas during the 1980s.\n\nAt the 1987 Miss Universe pageant, she placed first in the preliminary competition, second in semifinal interview and third in swimsuit and evening gown, finishing second runner-up to Cecilia Bolocco of Chile.\n\nShe is married to Donald \"Banana Don\" Jefferson, a morning on-air personality at country-formatted radio station WITL-FM in Lansing, Michigan. The pair met when she made a stop in Pittsburgh during an appearance shortly after winning her Miss USA title, and joined her husband briefly as half of the morning show behind the microphone when he accepted a new job as morning on-air personality at adult contemporary-formatted WSHH. They have two children together.\n\n"}
{"id": "1942658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942658", "title": "History of Dubuque, Iowa", "text": "History of Dubuque, Iowa\n\nThe city of Dubuque, Iowa stretches back over 200 years, when Julien Dubuque first settled in the area in the late 18th century. A number of forces shaped the city into what it is .\n\nDubuque was the first permanent European settlement in what would become the state of Iowa. This area was important in the French-Indian fur trading culture; the earliest record of lead mining dates to 1690 and the French trader, Nicholas Perrot. In 1788, Julien Dubuque was granted rights by the Mesquakie Indians to mine their land for lead; he settled near the mouth of Catfish Creek. Dubuque, for whom the city is named, is considered to be the first white man to settle in Iowa. Julien Dubuque's tomb remains a local landmark.\n\nIn 1833, the area where Julien Dubuque settled and worked was opened up to settlement by the United States Government. Miners created a settlement, this settlement eventually became the city of Dubuque. The religious community began with St. Luke's United Methodist Church. It is the oldest Methodist church in the state. Its origins trace back to the founding of the city; when Methodist ministers arrived and began work with the miners of the time. This was the first congregation of any denomination west of the Mississippi River. A small Catholic parish was established 1833. It eventually became the Saint Raphael's Cathedral parish. A Catholic church council recommended to the pope that three new dioceses be created, one of which was at Dubuque. In 1837, the Dubuque Diocese was created, and Mathias Loras was appointed as a bishop. When he arrived in Dubuque, there were only a few priests to cover a large area that consisted of several states.\n\nBishop Loras encouraged large numbers of immigrants to come to the area from the crowded cities in the eastern US. Many immigrants settled in Dubuque and the surrounding area. Also, immigrants tended to gather with other immigrants from the same ethnic background, this often helped with their assimilation into their new nation.\n\nMany Irish families came to the area because of their desire for a fresh start from the poor conditions in Ireland, and the crowded conditions in the east. For many years, Irish families mainly settled in the southern parts of the city - that area was often referred to as Little Dublin.\n\nThey were followed by a small group of Germans. However, over the years the German population grew until Germans became one of the two main ethnic groups in the city.\n\nWhile other groups—such as Hispanics and African Americans -- have become more prominent over the years, many living in Dubuque are descendants of German and Irish immigrants.\n\nA number of people living in Dubuque served their nation in this war. A few of these people went on to play an important role in government. David Bremner Henderson (1840–1906) was a Representative in the US House, and was Speaker at the turn of the century. He was wounded in the war and lost a leg. William Boyd Allison (1829–1908) also served in the war. Afterwards, he later served in both houses of Congress. Allison Henderson park on the corners of University Avenue and Grandview Avenue is named for the two men.\n\nA few Dubuque citizens found themselves in trouble with the government during the war. George Wallace Jones (1804–1896) was imprisoned on a charge of disloyalty based upon correspondence with Jefferson Davis. Newspaper publisher Dennis Mahony was also imprisoned for several months in 1862 for editorials that were critical of the government.\n\nMany Catholics and immigrants in Dubuque were opposed to the Republican party because parts of the Know Nothings movement who had harassed them had been absorbed into the Republican party. It caused trouble for both groups when the President and other government officials misinterpreted this opposition as disloyalty. This was responsible, in part, for Dubuque becoming a stronghold for the Democratic party.\n\nThe years following the war were ones of growth and expansion for Dubuque. When the Milwaukee Railroad Shops opened in Dubuque, a population explosion occurred when a number of young German families moved to the area in search of jobs.\n\nLead mining no longer played a central role in the city. Now Dubuque was becoming a transportation center due to its position on the Mississippi River. Also, the lumber industry had a large presence in Dubuque.\n\nThe Ku Klux Klan was an unwelcome presence at times in the area. In the 1920s, at the height of its power, Klan influence became visible in the area. Several crosses were burned in the area over an 18-month time period. One Klan meeting near the Center Grove section of the city degenerated into a huge fight when anti-klan demonstrators attacked Klan members. In 1925, the Klan held a gathering which they called a \"Konklave.\" The Klan claimed over 50,000 people attended the rally. The Klan held another \"Konklave\" as well as a parade.\n\nFortunately, the influence of the Klan soon began to weaken. National scandals and power struggles weakened the Klan, which was mirrored locally. The Klan had pretty much disappeared from the public view for a number of years.\n\nMost recently, during the 1990s, there was a brief resurgence of the Klan's presence in Dubuque. Appropriate actions were taken and the Klan's presence has since disappeared.\n\nOne of the first casualties of the Second World War was Father Aloysius Schmitt. A Roman Catholic priest and Chaplain, the Iowa native had been educated at Loras College in Dubuque, and had served as a pastor at St. Mary's Church in Dubuque.\n\nFollowing the war, Deere and Company built their manufacturing plant on a parcel of land adjoining the Mississippi River north of Dubuque. This plant, which today builds construction equipment became one of the major employers in the Dubuque area.\n\nAs television gained in popularity, area residents found that the geography of Dubuque made reception of over the air television signals difficult in some parts of the city. In response, a cable television system was developed in Dubuque during the mid-1950s. This made the Dubuque cable system one of the earlier systems to be developed in the country. The development of the Dubuque cable system meant that most homes in the lower lying regions of the city did not have television antennas - which was one of the main reasons why the city was chosen as a location for the movie \"F.I.S.T.\". Without TV antennas, Dubuque at the time looked more like Cleveland of the 1930s than Cleveland did. Today Mediacom runs the Dubuque cable system.\n\nDubuque was also affected by the Great Depression that had affected the rest of the nation. Many people were forced to move into what were called Hoovervilles. The one in Dubuque was in the southern part of the city.\n\nThe city was the site of several disastrous floods over the years when the Mississippi River went over its banks.\n\nMany older residents of Dubuque remember the Flood of 1965 as one of the worst in the city's history. Many areas of downtown Dubuque were under several feet of water, which resulted in damage or destruction of homes and businesses in the path of the floods. Only sandbagging efforts of local citizens kept the main highways open to keep traffic flowing.\n\nFollowing the 1965 flood funds were sought from the Federal government for the installation of a floodwall. This floodwall was finally built in the late 1960s. When the entire midwest was prone to widespread floods in 1993 the floodwall helped keep the city from experiencing serious flooding, while other cities - such as Davenport, Iowa - sustained major damage.\n\nIn the late 1970s, the movie \"F.I.S.T.\" was filmed in Dubuque. Sylvester Stallone starred in this film as a trucker who compromises his principles as he moves up through the labor union organization. Dubuque was chosen because without TV antennas it looked more like Cleveland of the 1930s than Cleveland did.\n\nIn between came \"Take This Job and Shove It\", a movie starring Robert Hays and Art Carney that was filmed at the old Dubuque Star Brewery.\n\nIn the late 1980s \"Field of Dreams\" was filmed. Parts of the movie were filmed in Dubuque, as well as the nearby towns of Dyersville and Galena, Illinois. The movie starred Kevin Costner, Amy Madigan, Gaby Hoffmann, James Earl Jones, Ray Liotta, and Burt Lancaster. Both well known Hollywood actors, and members of the community were cast as extras.\n\nIn the early 1990s the city experienced racial strife that attracted national attention.\n\nThe problems began when a cross was burned next to the garage of an African-American family which caught fire. In the ruins, parts of the cross were found, with the inscription \"KKK Lives.\" Another cross was burned a few weeks later. This was found to be the work of a group of young men who were well known racists - several members already had criminal records. Those responsible eventually were convicted and sent to prison.\n\nAt about the same time, the city embarked on a plan to encourage more minorities to move to the area. Some of the critics tried to stir up fear by telling people that the city was planning on taking a bus to a large city and grab the first 100 African-Americans that they found. In reality, the city was planning on making a recruiting drive to bring African-American professionals to the city.\n\nThe city's program, and the cross burning polarized the community. People took up strongly held views. Dubuque police had to be summoned to Dubuque's Senior High School at one point because racial tensions almost boiled over into a large fight at the school. Jim Brady, who was mayor at the time, had even gone to the schools in Dubuque to talk about his experiences with racism over the years. When the Guardian Angels arrived in Dubuque, it was felt that their presence would only complicate the matter. Brady flat out told them that if they caused problems he'd have them arrested.\n\nThe cross burnings and the city's plans had the effect of bringing negative media attention to the city. ABC's 20/20 did a news segment on race relations, which many felt was biased against the city and the people living in it in general. An episode of \"Donahue\" featured some of the major personalities in the controversy.\n\nThe problems also attracted the unwelcome attention of hate groups. One hate group held a parade through the city, which was attended by only a few hundred people. The Ku Klux Klan held a rally in downtown Dubuque. To counter the Klan rally, the city held a free diversity public gathering at Dubuque's Eagle Point Park.\n\nIn 2007 racial tension have heated up once again after the stabbing of a white male in downtown Dubuque by a group of African-Americans at a party.\n\nIn recent years, government bodies from the Federal to the City level have moved to improve the road and highway systems in Dubuque, which have been plagued by problems that resulted from the original design of the roadways throughout the city.\n\nOne of the first major traffic improvement projects undertaken was to build a US 61/151 elevated highway through the city. Previously, U.S. Highways 61/151 used several downtown roads from Locust Street up to the Wisconsin border. This resulted in a lot of heavy truck traffic on local streets, and was a cause of major congestion.\n\nIn several stages from 1988 to 1993, a new four-lane divided highway was built through the city of Dubuque. The sections were built from south to north. Most of this new highway was designed as an elevated highway - except for one section near the riverfront. Highway planners went ahead with this despite opposition over having an elevated highway through the city. Initially the highway was planned as a complete limited access roadway with no at-grade intersections. But after a campaign by local business interests, the design was changed so that there would be two at-grade traffic lights near the riverfront. The approach to the Dubuque-Wisconsin Bridge was rebuilt to accommodate the new highway.\n\nIn 1993, the new US 61/151 highway was completed. The highway has helped to reduce much of the congestion in downtown Dubuque. Heavy trucks that are merely going through the city are now able to use the highway instead of local roads. Travel from the southern to the northern ends of the route - once at least a 20-minute journey - has been at least cut in half.\n\nFour lane expansion on highways 61 and 151 elsewhere in Iowa has given Dubuque four lane connections to both the Quad Cities and Cedar Rapids, Iowa. With the completion of this expansion of U.S. 61 in the mid-1990s the city finally had a direct four lane connection to Interstate 80.\n\nAs part of the U.S. 151 expansion project, the highway was expanded to four lanes between Dubuque and Madison, Wisconsin. Construction was finally finished in 2005, which resulted in a direct four lane connection between the two cities.\n\nIn the 1980s, a new Northwest Arterial project was begun. It was intended to serve as a bypass around Dubuque, going northeast from US 20 at the west end of Dubuque out to US 52 / State Highway 3 north.\n\nInitially, a four lane section from US Highway 20 up to JFK Road was graded. However, only two lanes were brought to completion. In the 1990s, the other two lanes were completed, and several stoplights were added to the road. In the late 1990s, Dubuque turned control of the road over to the state, who then named the road as state highway 32. At that point, the Northwest Arterial was expanded from JFK Road out to US 52. As a result, there is now a four lane bypass of Dubuque to the north. With the completion of the Northwest Arterial, more and more businesses are locating their operations along the highway. And the number of houses located near the Arterial has greatly increased over the past 15 years.\n\nFor a number of years, a Southwest Arterial, or a bypass from the south to the west ends of Dubuque has been planned. However, the Southwest Arterial has yet to proceed from the design stages. Business leaders have voiced concern about not having such a bypass. Some people have taken to driving over secondary roads to avoid Dodge Street. As these roads - particularly Kelly Lane and Cedar Cross Road - are mainly residential streets, it has caused concern among residents who see traffic getting heavier all the time on those roads, along with safety problems such traffic brings along.\n\nDuring the latter half of the 20th century, residents and businesses of Dubuque began migrating out primarily to the western part of the city. This movement has changed the face of many areas of the city, and pushed out the western borders of Dubuque. Many homes and businesses were built on areas that were once farm fields in \"the middle of nowhere.\"\n\nFollowing World War II, the baby boom impacted Dubuque. A number of these young families settled in the west end. Areas that were once fields were turned into housing for these young families, and Dubuque began pushing westward. Because of this, the Archdiocese of Dubuque opened Wahlert High School - a central parochial high school. The Dubuque Community School District opened Hempstead High School - the city's second public high school - in 1970.\nDuring this time, a number of new businesses were established in Dubuque. The S. S. Kresge Corporation opened a new Kmart on a parcel of land on what was once the western border of Dubuque. This was the first Kmart in Iowa. Target Stores opened their own location about a mile west of Kmart it the late 1970s. In 1970 the first stores at Kennedy Mall - the first indoor, climate-controlled mall in Iowa - were opened.\n\nA number of businesses moved to the western part of the city. In 1964, Montgomery Ward decided to move their store from the downtown out to the west end. Both Wards and Roshek's Department Store moved into Kennedy Mall when it was opened. In the 1980s, both JCPenney and Sears moved their stores from the downtown out to Kennedy Mall.\n\nThis westward migration had redefined the lower main street area. Instead of being the main shopping area of the city, it became mostly a business park. After hours and on weekends, the area was deserted. The city has made a number of efforts to increase the importance of the downtown area once again.\n\nIn recent years, the city of Dubuque has made a concerted effort to redevelop the downtown and riverfront areas. This included a number of controversial decisions. But so far most people seem to have positive opinions of the redevelopment efforts.\n\nIn the downtown area, the gas station featured in Field of Dreams was torn down to make way for expanded parking spots for downtown businesses. In the years following that decision, the Bricktown Restaurant opened in the building behind the gas station after the owners made major improvements to the building. The local Historic Preservation Commission had recommended that the gas station remain intact, however the city government overrode their decision.\nThe Merchant's Hotel - despite being a National Historic Landmark, was demolished to make way for a new building for the chamber of commerce. This was a very controversial decision. People interested in historic preservation felt that the building was worth saving. However, the Merchants Hotel building was allowed to deteriorate until it was unsafe and structurally unsound. It was also considered an eyesore. The historic preservation interests were not able to put forth an effective plan to save the building, so it was demolished. The chamber of commerce then built a modern building that was designed to blend in with its neighbors.\n\nThe city placed a new parking ramp behind the chamber of commerce building. Unfortunately, this caused structural damage to several nearby buildings, including the old German National Bank Building. The city worked to encourage the owner to repair the building and reopen the Silver Dollar Cantina - which he had to close when it didn't survive a massive fire. (See Dubuque365.com for info and pictures). The city threatened to cite the owner with demolition by neglect as he had not made repairs, but he started the process of rebuilding. As of March, 2008, the Silver Dollar is open for business once again.\n\nA number of redevelopment efforts focused on the riverfront just north of the Ice Harbor. This was part of the America's River project. It included a newly expanded National Mississippi River Museum and Aquarium. Private investors built the Grand River Hotel and Waterpark on the riverfront. The Grand River Events Center was built next door as a place to host events for parties ranging from very small to very large parties. The nearby old Dubuque Star Brewery has also been renovated into spaces for businesses.\n\nDevelopers proposed building a stadium near the Ice Harbor for a minor league baseball team, however the plans were abandoned when a tax levy to help fund this stadium was voted down by the residents.\n\nDevelopers have also recently begun construction efforts on the area at the bottom of the bluffs which the Eagle Point Park is located on. They plan to build condominiums at the base of the bluffs. This has caused controversy in that people feel that having buildings there would take away from the natural beauty of the area. The controversy gained further momentum when it was found that several rockslides had taken place after construction efforts had begun. The rockslides led to concern that construction efforts may be causing geological instability in the bluffs.\n\nThe Dubuque Community School District has decided to replace a downtown elementary school building with a new building a short distance away. This plan has run into opposition by historic preservation interests, who claim this would result in the destruction of several historic buildings. After considering the options, the district decided to go ahead with building the new school, and has purchased the properties to be demolished. A section of W. 12th street has been closed off. The street has been taken out to make way for the new school building, named Prescott Elementary.\n\nThe development of new hotels has led to what the industry has termed as a surplus in the market - especially with the addition of the Grand Harbor Hotel and a new Hilton hotel at the Dubuque Greyhound Park and Casino. Because of this the Best Western Dubuque Inn has been sold. Part of it was torn down, and the remaining portion is being remodeled into a new hotel scheduled to open in the spring of 2006. The Dubuque Inn's owners also own the local Days Inn, which they have put up for sale as well. The owners of those two properties have said that their occupancy was often less than 50%.\n\nOn May 7, 2004, President George W. Bush visited the city. He is the first sitting President to have visited the city since Jimmy Carter in 1979. While some were excited to have a sitting President in the city, others reacted with mixed feelings - especially when most of those allowed to attend a speech by Bush were only those who planned on voting for him in November. Among those in attendance was former Iowa Hawkeyes Football Head Coach, Hayden Fry, who spoke about his friendship with George H. W. Bush and Barbara Bush in Texas and introduced the President to the standing room only crowd. A World War II veteran who was denied tickets by campaign staffers only added to the controversy. Bush returned to Dubuque on October 26, 2004 to attend another campaign rally at the Grand River Event Center.\n\nDemocratic Presidential candidate John Kerry also visited the city several times during his campaign. On July 3, 2004, Kerry watched the fireworks celebration that evening from a private boat sitting in the Mississippi River. On July 4, he attended a Catholic mass at Resurrection Church with Iowa Governor Tom Vilsack. Despite some speculation to the contrary, he was able to receive communion. He then continued on to visit several other communities in Iowa, including Cascade, and Cedar Rapids. On August 3, 2004, Kerry again visited the city, and spoke to a large crowd at the Five Flags Center. From Dubuque, he went to another campaign stop at Davenport, Iowa.\n\nIn the days leading up to the election, there was considerable controversy among Catholics on how to vote. Some felt that with Kerry's pro-choice stance that Catholics should not vote for Kerry. Other Catholics - despite the fact that they opposed Kerry's stance on abortion committed to voting for him. These Catholics often pointed to the \"seamless garment\" idea espoused by the late Cardinal Joseph Bernardin, and felt that when a person looked at all the issues that Kerry was the better candidate for office. Or people would take an \"anyone but Bush\" stance. Both parties took out full page advertisements in the Telegraph Herald. appealing to Catholics to vote for either Bush or Kerry. Officially, the Archdiocese maintained the traditional position that protection of the unborn is the most important and root issue in the tree of politics, as stated by Pope Benedict XVI.\n\nFrom June 27 to the June 29, 2004, Dubuque hosted the Grand Excursion. This excursion - which ran from the Quad Cities to the Twin Cities made a stop at Dubuque. This brought several riverboats participating in the event, a steam locomotive passenger train, the Budweiser Clydesdales, and a large number of people to the city.\n\nIn 2007, 2012, 2013, 2017, and 2019 Dubuque won an All-America City Award.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1942663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942663", "title": "Doublet state", "text": "Doublet state\n\nIn quantum mechanics, a doublet is a mixed quantum state of a system with a spin of 1/2, such that there are two allowed values of the spin component, −1/2 and +1/2. Quantum systems with two possible states are sometimes called two-level systems. Essentially all occurrences of doublets in nature arise from rotational symmetry; spin 1/2 is associated with the fundamental representation of the Lie group SU(2), the group that defines rotational symmetry in three-dimensional space.\n\nThe term \"doublet\" dates back to the 19th century, when it was observed that certain spectral lines of an ionized, excited gas would split into two under the influence of a strong magnetic field, in an effect known as the anomalous Zeeman effect. Such spectral lines were observed not only in the laboratory, but also in astronomical spectroscopy observations, allowing astronomers to deduce the existence of, and measure the strength of magnetic fields around the sun, stars and galaxies. Conversely, it was the observation of doublets in spectroscopy that allowed physicists to deduce that the electron had a spin, and that furthermore, the magnitude of the spin had to be 1/2. See the history section of the article on spin (physics) for greater detail. \n\nDoublets continue to play an important role in physics. For example, the healthcare technology of magnetic resonance imaging is based on nuclear magnetic resonance. In this technology, a spectroscopic doublet occurs in a spin-1/2 atomic nucleus, whose doublet splitting is in the radio-frequency range. By applying both a magnetic field and carefully tuning a radio-frequency transmitter, the nuclear spins will flip and re-emit radiation, in an effect known as the Rabi cycle. The strength and frequency of the emitted radio waves allows the concentration of such nuclei to be measured. Another potential application is the use of doublets as the emitting layer in light emitting diodes (LEDs). These materials have the advantage of having 100% theoretical quantum efficiency based on spin statistics whereas singlet systems and triplet systems have significantly lower efficiencies or rely on noble metals such as Pt and Ir to emit light.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1942670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942670", "title": "General intellect", "text": "General intellect\n\nGeneral intellect, according to Karl Marx in his \"Grundrisse\", became a crucial force of production. It is a combination of technological expertise and social intellect, or general social knowledge (increasing importance of machinery in social organization). The \"general intellect\" passage in the 'Fragment on machines' section of \"Grundrisse\", says that, while the development of machinery led to the oppression of workers under capitalism, it also offers a prospect for future liberation.\n\nAccording to Marx, the development of the general intellect manifests in a capitalist society, in the control of the social life process. In other words, with the idea of the general intellect, Marx designates a radical change of the subsumption of labour to capital and indicates a third stage of the division of labour. The concept has several interpretations. For instance, Paolo Virno maintained that \"general intellect\" does not only thrive in communism, as Marx originally thought, since it also characterized other economic systems such as the post-Fordist capitalism. Here, it is suggested that Marx underestimated the extent to which the general intellect would develop within capitalism, particularly in the modern period where the concept is said to have been realised but with no revolutionary or even conflictual repercussions.\n\nAccording to Matteo Pasquinelli, Marx took the expression 'general intellect' from William Thompson's book \"An Inquiry Into the Principles of the Distribution of Wealth\" (1824) which is probably the first book ever written on mental labour. According to Pasquinelli the concept disappears in the transition between the \"Grundrisse\" and \"Capital\" as it is replaced by the notion of collective worker or \"Gesamtarbeiter\". \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1942674", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942674", "title": "Red Deer County", "text": "Red Deer County\n\nRed Deer County is a municipal district in central Alberta, Canada within Census Division No. 8 and surrounding the City of Red Deer. The neighbouring municipalities of Red Deer County are Clearwater County to the west, Lacombe County to the north, the County of Stettler No. 6 to the east, Kneehill County to the southeast and Mountain View County to the south. It is located approximately midway between Edmonton and Calgary, bisected by the Queen Elizabeth II Highway and bounded on the north and east by the Red Deer River.\n\nRed Deer County is largely an agricultural area, and much of the rural land is actively used for growing crops, feeding livestock and providing lumber and mineral resources. The County has initiated several projects to ensure that agriculture and the environment are represented as it continues to grow. \n\nAn Agricultural Profile has been created to detail the County's existing agriculture, land and water resources. The County was divided into 19 distinct geographic areas called County Neighbourhoods. These delineations distinguish variations in drainage, soil type, water resources, and primary production. County Neighbourhoods have specific characteristics that will assist future growth and development plans.\n\nLivestock and crop production are an important part of the economy. The County has dairies that make cheese, U-pick vegetable and fruit farms and the largest organic farm in Alberta. Amenities for trout fishing exist at a U-fish pond. The County also has elk, deer, and apiary farms as well as a mouse farm, which raises white mice for the pet food industry.\n\nConstruction of residences and most buildings in Red Deer County require County-issued development permits to assure that proposed projects are in conformance with applicable County bylaws and statutory plans and are also consistent with requirements regulating property divisions and uses such as setbacks, minimum frontage, potable water supply and sewage disposal systems.\n\nAs well, permits are often required from other agencies such as Alberta Transportation or Alberta Environment. Although the County has no jurisdiction in these areas, it can assist applicants through the process.\n\nIn the 2016 Census of Population conducted by Statistics Canada, Red Deer County recorded a population of 19,541 living in 7,097 of its 8,440 total private dwellings, a change from its 2011 population of 18,316. With a land area of , it had a population density of in 2016.\n\nIn the 2011 Census, Red Deer County had a population of 18,351 living in 6,643 of its 7,703 total dwellings, a -1.6% change from its 2006 adjusted population of 18,649. With a land area of , it had a population density of in 2011.\n\n"}
{"id": "1942683", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942683", "title": "Macleans College", "text": "Macleans College\n\nMacleans College is a co-educational state secondary school located in Bucklands Beach, Auckland, New Zealand. The school is named after the Scottish MacLean family who lived and farmed the land of the school and surrounding reserves, and the school emblem contains the castle from their family crest along with six waves which symbolise the seaside location of the school. \"Metro\" placed Macleans College as the number one Auckland high school in 2010 among those in the Cambridge International Examinations system. In 2014, Macleans College ranked 2nd nationally in the Cambridge International Examinations.\n\nThe school is named after the MacLean family. Robert and Every Maclean immigrated to New Zealand from Scotland. The family farmed the areas of land located in Howick that is the school's current location, as well as the surrounding government controlled reserves.\n\nThe school was opened in 1980 by then Governor General Sir David Beattie with an initial roll of 199 students. The first principal was Colin Prentice, who later became director of World Vision in New Zealand, followed by his deputy Allan McDonald in 1989. In 2000, upon McDonald's retirement, Byron J. Bentley, became principal.\n\nIn 2015, the school auditorium was renamed the 'Colin Prentice Auditorium' in honour of the late founding principal after his passing. In 2017, Byron Bentley announced his retirement as principal. He stood as the longest serving principal of the school, governing for 18 years. An official student publication \"The Collegian\" launched in 2018.\n\nUpon admission, pupils are placed into one of the eight 'whanau houses'. These houses are named after significant New Zealanders, and the traits and achievements of this person influences the houses environment, charity and what it encourages. The selection is random, unless the student has or had any sibling or parent attend the school wherein the student has an option to be enrolled in the same house, or be randomly placed in any of the other seven.\n\nThe Whanau House system at Macleans divides the school into houses of about 300 students each, with two form classes of 30 or so students for each year level, all from the same house. The 'whanau house' system had previously been trialled at Penrose High School (now One Tree Hill College) by modifying existing buildings, but Macleans College was the first state school in New Zealand to be purpose-built around the system.\n\nThe original houses were Kupe, Hillary, Te Kanawa and Rutherford, although Hillary was rebuilt and reopened on 29 October 1992 after it burnt down on 13 October 1991. Mansfield House was hastily opened in 1984 due to a surge in the school's roll, however the building itself was used earlier as temporary classrooms, having been airlifted via helicopter as prefabricated units. More houses have been added as the roll has increased, with the latest addition being Upham, which was opened in 2003. The school currently has a roll of over 2,500 students.\n\nThe school is currently in the process of rebuilding all of its previous buildings due to leaks found and poor original construction. The school is in consideration with the Ministry of Education about all of these rebuilds. The Batten, Snell, Rutherford, Kupe, Upham, Te Kanawa, Hillary and Mansfield, along with staffroom, resource room and student advisory have all been completed, with the technology and sciences blocks currently under renovation. Through this process, classes has often been relocated to 'X Block', a set of temporary prefabricated units that are parked on a tennis court.\n\nThe school has also recently added an astroturf for sports such as co-curricular football and rugby next to the pre-existing tennis courts located across the school fields. Changing rooms, and other facilities have been built around these areas.\n\nMacleans College is located in Macleans Park, the largest passive reserve in the Howick/Pakuranga district. Due to its sloping terrain, the school has wide views of the adjacent Eastern Beach.\n\nEach Whanau House has a one-storey building (with the exception of Batten, which has two due to being on a slope). This is due to a ban of buildings of over one storey in the whole Bucklands Beach-Eastern Beach area due to the scenery. Each house contains around 5 classrooms and 1 science lab and sometimes a computer lab, and often several associated prefabs (Kupe, Mansfield, Te Kanawa, Batten). Each Whanau House building also has a large central indoor commons area, which, along with being a general purpose socialising space, is used for house assemblies, lunch eating, and various co-curricular activities. Hillary, Kupe, Rutherford and Te Kanawa were built to a common design plan, known as the Whanau plan or S80 plan. Classroom blocks nearly identical to these were also built at Penrose High School and at Mountainview High School in Timaru. However these buildings have since been rebuilt according to new plan allowing for less classrooms and larger open commons spaces.\n\nThe school also contains specialised non-house associated Science and Technology, Computing, Graphics, Art, Music, and Engineering buildings, along with the large Barbara Kendall gymnasiums and a smaller Colin Prentice auditorium for productions and performance.\n\nAt the May 2014 Education Review Office (ERO) review of the school, Macleans College had 2271 students, not including 304 international students. Fifty-three percent of students were male and 47 percent were female. The school had an Asian majority with 54 percent of students identifying as such, including 31 percent as Chinese and 11 percent as Indian. Forty percent of students identified as European, including 27 percent as New Zealand European (Pākehā). Māori made up three percent and Pacific Islanders make up one percent of the roll.\n\nMacleans College has a socio-economic decile of 9 (step Q), meaning it draws its school community from areas of low to moderately-low socioeconomic disadvantage when compared to other New Zealand schools. This changed from decile 10 (funding step Z) at the beginning of 2015, as part of the nationwide review of deciles following the 2013 census.\n\nThe colleges main foreign student demographic is Chinese in ethnicity, though other student form Germany, Hungry, Brazil, Japan, Nepal etc. are also present.\n\nIn 2013, 97.6 percent of students leaving Macleans College held at least NCEA Level 1 or IGCSE, 95.5 percent held at least NCEA Level 2 or AS, and 86.2 percent held at least University Entrance standard. This is compared to 85.2%, 74.2%, and 49.0% respectively for all students nationally.\n\n\nAn official Alumni Association was set up in 2016.\n\n"}
{"id": "1942704", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942704", "title": "Jefferson Elementary School (Spokane, Washington)", "text": "Jefferson Elementary School (Spokane, Washington)\n\nJefferson Elementary School is a primary school located in Spokane, Washington, USA of approximately 600 students in kindergarten through sixth grade. It was constructed in 1908, and has been expanded four times since then. Jefferson's PTA organization helps get parents involved in their children's educational experience. It is the home of the school district's Montessori program, an alternative to the regular classroom experience. Jefferson provides support for learning-disabled students through a dedicated reading instruction program, two special-education classrooms, and a learning counselor. As of 2005, the school principal is Mary-Dean Wooley.\n\nAccording to a recent Annual Report Card published in 2004 , 25.4% of students qualify for the free or reduced lunch program. Minority students account for 11.4% of the student body and the average class size is 17.7 pupils.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1942712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942712", "title": "Touch hole", "text": "Touch hole\n\nA touch hole, also called a vent, is a small hole near the rear portion (\"breech\") of a cannon or muzzleloading gun—that is, the part where the combustion of the powder charge occurs, at the end opposite from the muzzle from which the projectile is fired from the barrel. The vent is the access point through which the propellant charge is ignited. In small arms, the flash from a charge of priming held in the flash pan is enough to ignite the charge within. In artillery, priming powder, a fuse, squib, or friction igniter is inserted into the touch hole to ensure ignition of the charge.\n\nThe powder in the touch hole was lit either with a slow match, a linstock or a type of flintlock mechanism that was known as a \"gunlock\".\n\n\"Spiking a gun\" was a method of temporarily disabling a cannon by hammering a barbed steel spike into the touch-hole; this could be removed only with great difficulty. If a special spike was unavailable, spiking could be done by driving a bayonet into the touch-hole and breaking it off, to leave the blade's tip embedded. Guns could also be rendered useless by burning their wooden carriages or blowing off their trunnions.\n\nCount Friedrich Wilhelm von Bismarck, in his \"Lectures on the Tactics of Cavalry\", recommended that every cavalry soldier carry the equipment needed to spike guns if an encounter with enemy artillery was expected. If a cannon was in danger of being captured by the enemy, its crew would spike the gun to prevent it from being used against them. Captured guns would be spiked if they could not be hauled away and the gun's recapture seemed likely. Covert missions to spike the enemy's guns could also be done to prevent counterattacks and protect ships during withdrawal, as in the case of the \"Ranger\"'s attack on Whitehaven during the American Revolutionary War.\n"}
{"id": "1942713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942713", "title": "Technology High School", "text": "Technology High School\n\nSeveral high schools use the name Technology High School:\n\n"}
{"id": "1942720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942720", "title": "Hidehisa Otsuji", "text": "Hidehisa Otsuji\n\nHe was born in Kaseda City in Kagoshima Prefecture on the island of Kyūshū. His father was killed in World War II in fighting near the Solomon Islands.\n\nOtsuji briefly attended the National Defense Academy but dropped out in 1961 after his mother died. He later attended the prestigious University of Tokyo, but again dropped out.\n\nFrom his own account, Otsuji was unhappy with university education. Reflecting on his youth as en elderly politician, he noted the social unrest at the time and protests against the government of Prime Minister Kishi, and said that lectures were rarely held and there was no worthwhile education to be had. Instead, he took the time to travel the world and visited close to 80 countries over a period of five years. In 1971 he returned to Japan and officially withdrew from Tokyo University and returned to Kagoshima.\n\nHe was elected to the Kagoshima Prefectural Assembly in 1979. He was defeated in his run for the House of Representatives in 1986 but was elected to the House of Councillors in 1989.\n\nHe served as Parliamentary Vice-Minister for Management and Coordination in 1992 and became Vice Minister for Okinawa Development in 1994. He was selected to served as Vice Minister of Financial Affairs in 2003 in the cabinet of Prime Minister Junichirō Koizumi and became the Minister of Health, Labour and Welfare in 2004.\n\nOtsuji is affiliated to the openly revisionist organization Nippon Kaigi.\n\nOtsuji is also the author of several books, including \"Africa Travel Diary\" and \"Going to Bokemon World.\" \"Bokemon\" is a word from the Kagoshima dialect of Japanese meaning \"recklessly strong\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1942732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942732", "title": "Taiping, Perak", "text": "Taiping, Perak\n\nTaiping (Malay pronunciation: /taipeŋ/; Jawi: تاءيڤيڠ)(Chinese: ; Chinese pronunciation: /tʰaɪ̯⁵¹piŋ/; Hokkien: Thài-pêng; Tamil: தைப்பிங்) is a town located in Larut, Matang and Selama District, Perak, Malaysia. It is located approximately northwest of Ipoh, the capital of Perak, and southeast of George Town, Penang. With a population of 245,182 (in 2013), it is the second largest town in Perak after Ipoh, the state capital.\n\nTaiping took over Kuala Kangsar's role as the state capital from 1876 to 1937, but was then replaced by Ipoh. Its growth slowed down after that, but in recent years the town has been developing rapidly again. Perak State Museum is located in the town.\n\nTaiping also receives some limelight for being the wettest town in Peninsular Malaysia. The average annual rainfall is about 4,000mm in Taiping while the peninsula's average is 2,000mm – 2,500mm. Its unusual rainfall has also led to a fertile collection of flora and century-old rain trees in the Taiping Lake Gardens.\n\nTaiping is ranked Top 3 Sustainable Cities in the world.\n\nThe area developed quickly in the 19th century when tin was discovered. The mines attracted large numbers of settlers, particularly Chinese. Feuds began between the different groups of Chinese immigrants and became so bitter that in the early 1870s, the British intervened and assumed control of the town. Taiping was the capital for the districts of Larut, Matang and Selama in Perak. Before 1937, Taiping was the capital of the state of Perak and the centre of a long and drawn out war resulting in a change of rulership for the state. Taiping used to be known as Klian Pauh – \"Klian\" meaning mine while \"Pauh\" is a type of small mango.\n\nLong Jaafar has been historically credited with the discovery of tin in Larut in 1848. According to legend, Long Jaafar had an elephant named Larut and he used to take this elephant with him when journeying between Bukit Gantang and Lubok Merbau. One day the elephant went missing and when the elephant was eventually found three days later Long Jaafar noticed tin ore embedded in the mud that was on the elephant's legs. It is said that this was how Larut got its name.\n\nEventually in 1850, Larut district was bestowed upon Long Jaafar by Raja Muda Ngah Ali and the Chiefs of Perak: the Temenggong, Panglima Bukit Gantang, Panglima Kinta, Syahbandar and Seri Adika Raja. Some time later, the Sultan of Perak, Sultan Abdullah, died in 1857 and a series of succession disputes ensued. Unhappy with the abuse and favouritism of various royalties, rival Malay camps took sides with one or the other of the two great Chinese secret societies present in there at the time. \n\nLong Jaafar established and developed his administrative centre at Bukit Gantang and made Kuala Sungai Limau at Trong the principal harbour of the Larut Settlement. In 1857 Long Jaafar was succeeded by his son Ngah Ibrahim. Sultan Jaffar Muazzam Shah presented an acknowledgement letter to Ngah Ibrahim on 24 May 1858. This letter was signed by Sultan Jaffar, Raja Muda Ngah Ali and the Raja Bendahara of Perak. In the time of Ngah Ibrahim the Chinese increased in number and by early 1860 two large groups were formed by the Chinese, the \"Five Associations\" whose members worked in the mines of Klian Pauh and the \"Four Associations\" whose members worked in the mines of Klian Baharu. \n\nMining rights were given to the Hakka \"Five Associations\" or Go-Kuan (五館 or 五群) and the Cantonese \"Four Associations\" or Si-Kuan (四館). Chung Keng Quee (鄭景貴) was leader of the Hakka Go-Kuan and the Hai San (海山) society that they belonged to, and began to operate his tin mines in Larut in 1860. Larut was destined to be plagued by four major wars between members of both the Cantonese Go-Kuan Ghee Hin Society (義興私會黨) and the Hakka Hai San society. Many Hakka had fled China when the Taiping Rebellion broke out there and found work in the mines of Chung Keng Quee establishing his position over the mining area in Larut as leader of the Hai San from 1860 to 1884.\n\nThe capital of Perak was moved from Bandar Baru (New Town) to Taiping after Datok Maharaja Lela assassinated the first British Resident of Perak Mr. James Wheeler Woodford Birch at Pasir Salak in 1875. In 1937, the capital of Perak was moved from Taiping to Ipoh.\n\nThe town's mining industry continued to thrive; the country's first railway was built to transport tin from Taiping to Port Weld (now known as Kuala Sepetang) at the coast for export. The first train in Malaysia took its schedule on 1 June 1885. \n\nBy 1900, an English language school, a newspaper, and the Perak Museum (the oldest in Malaysia) had been established.\n\nAlthough Taiping's economy declined with the dwindling tin deposits, tin mining still remains an important industry in the area as rubber and rice.\n\nTaiping is situated on a plain to the west of the Bintang Mountains. Perak's capital city, Ipoh, is approximately southeast of the town, while George Town, the capital city of the neighbouring state of Penang, lies away to the northwest.\n\nTaiping also receives some limelight for being the wettest town in Peninsular Malaysia. The average annual rainfall is about 3,000mm in Taiping while the peninsula's average is 2,000mm – 2,500mm. Its unusual rainfall has also led to a fertile collection of flora and century-old rain trees in the Taiping Lake Gardens.\n\nThe Taiping Municipal Council is the municipal council which administers the township. This council was established after the township on 1930. Their jurisdiction covers an area of 186.46 square kilometres.\n\nDue to electoral division by Election Commission of Malaysia, there are two parliamentary and six state constituencies (DUN) dividing the township. There are Taiping parliamentary seat, Aulong, Pokok Assam and Kamunting state seat meanwhile for Bukit Gantang parliamentary seat, Terong, Kuala Sepetang and Changkat Jering state seat.\n\nPrimary and secondary education in Taiping are provided by national-type schools, Chinese-medium schools and Tamil-medium schools.\n\n\n\nThe Taiping railway station was the first operational train station in Malaysia. Originally, the station served the local tin mines, transporting ore to Port Weld (now Kuala Sepetang) and mine workers to workers settlements. In the 1930s, railway connections to other towns like Ipoh, Kuala Lumpur, and Singapore started. The Taiping-Port Weld line was dismantled by KTMB in the 1980s.\n\nThe station was previously served only by KTM Intercity trains, with a one way trip to KL Sentral taking about six hours. Since 1 July 2015 however, the station has also been served by KTM ETS's ETS Ekspres service, reducing the travel time on the same route to about three hours. In addition, Taiping also serves as a stop on the ETS Transit service between Ipoh and Padang Besar.\n\n"}
{"id": "1942734", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942734", "title": "High Crimes and Misdemeanors: The Case Against Bill Clinton", "text": "High Crimes and Misdemeanors: The Case Against Bill Clinton\n\nHigh Crimes and Misdemeanors: The Case Against Bill Clinton is a 1998 book about Bill Clinton by American far-right media commentator Ann Coulter. It was published by Regnery Publishing. Coulter promoted it on television and it became a bestseller.\n\nThe book has sections on President Bill Clinton's alleged womanizing at government expense and his alleged lies (under oath) to cover up his actions.\nCoulter also writes about some of the other controversies surrounding Bill Clinton's presidency, including Monica Lewinsky, Paula Jones, Whitewater, Travelgate, Filegate, Wampumgate, the China secrets scandal, and the suicide of Vince Foster. In the last chapter, she reviews the history of the impeachment process and makes a case for Clinton's impeachment.\n\n\"High Crimes and Misdemeanors\" was first published in hardcover by Regnery Publishing in 1998. A paperback edition followed in 2002.\n\n\"High Crimes and Misdemeanors\" received positive reviews from the journalist Matthew Scully in \"National Review\", the legal scholar Robert Bork in \"The Wall Street Journal\", and the activist James C. Roberts in \"Human Events\". It received mixed reviews from Gilbert Taylor in \"Booklist\" and the legal scholar Vikram Amar in \"Constitutional Commentary\" and a negative review from \"The Economist\". The book was also discussed by Daisy Maryles of \"Publishers Weekly\".\n\nScully credited Coulter with providing \"a lively and unanswerable case as to the constitutional points\". However, he believed that Coulter wrongly blamed Clinton for the \"vice and vulgarity of modern culture\". He compared the book to the conservative commentator William Bennett's \"The Death of Outrage\" (1998). Bork described the book as \"readable and informative\" and praised its \"sprightly style\". He agreed with Coulter that \"the IRS, headed by a Clinton crony, conducted politically motivated audits of taxpayers.\"\n\nRoberts believed that Coulter provided a \"useful review of the impeachment process in the Anglo-American tradition\" and made a compelling case for Clinton's impeachment and removal from office. He also praised Coulter's discussion of the Monica Lewinsky, Paula Jones, and Whitewater scandals. Taylor described the book as \"aggressive\" and \"hot selling\", but questioned whether this was because of its content or because of Coulter's \"incessant cable TV appearances\". He believed that the book's best passages were those about the impeachment process. Amar believed that the book was not \"good academic scholarship\", but that it should nevertheless interest scholars, since it presented \"an interesting, though by no means uncontested\" discussion of Clinton's legal and political problems. He believed that Coulter's discussions of \"Whitewater, Filegate and the Travel Office episode\" were questionable, but that her discussion of the Monica Lewinsky scandal was \"better grounded\" and provided a good starting point for discussions about the possibility of impeaching Clinton. He believed Coulter was basically correct about the facts of the case but that she provided a weaker discussion of relevant constitutional issues. He also believed that what Coulter was saying was \"constitutionally important merely because she has been saying it to so many and such impressionable people\".\n\n\"The Economist\" wrote that the book \"reads like the closing argument of a long trial by a prosecutor who plainly hates the guilty bastard at the defence table\" and that it was uneven in quality. It complimented Coulter's discussion of Whitewater, but found her discussion of Wampumgate irrelevant, concluding that \"Coulter tries too hard\" and that for her \"there is nothing that Mr Clinton can do right.\" According to Maryles, the book became a bestseller. She stated that it \"had a 75,000-copy first printing and has been back to press several times, bringing the total to 150,000.\" She added that in the months after the book's publication, Coulter did 175 radio interviews and 11 television interviews.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1942737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942737", "title": "Yoshinobu Shimamura", "text": "Yoshinobu Shimamura\n\nBorn in Edogawa, Tokyo, he graduated from the Faculty of Politics & Economics at Gakushuin University in 1956 and then entered ENEOS, a Japanese oil company. He also worked as an aide to the Head of the Defense Agency until running successfully for the House of Representatives in 1976 as a member of the Liberal Democratic Party.\n\nHe served as the Minister of Education for Prime Minister Tomiichi Murayama in 1995, a Socialist administration. He was appointed the Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries in 1997 and served in that position until 2000 when he was defeated in his reelection campaign. He ran again in 2003 and was elected, and was once again appointed the Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries in 2004 by Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi.\n\nHe opposed the Prime Minister's motion to dissolve the House of Representatives following the defeat of the government's postal privatization bill and was forced to resign in August 2005, prior to the 2005 Japanese general election.\n\n"}
{"id": "1942746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942746", "title": "Kazuo Kitagawa", "text": "Kazuo Kitagawa\n\nBorn in Ikuno-ku, Osaka, Kitagawa graduated from Faculty of Law, Soka University and became a lawyer. In 1990, he was elected to the House of Representatives for the first time and since 2004 has been Minister of Land, Infrastructure and Transport. Member of New Komeito.\n\nHe was the general secretary of New Komeito when the party suffered a major defeat in the 2009 Japanese general election. New Komeito lost ten seats, including Kitagawa's and that of party leader Akihiro Ota. On 8 September 2009 Yoshihisa Inoue replaced Kitagawa as general secretary of New Komeito. Notwithstanding the loss of his seat, Kitagawa became deputy president of the party.\n\nKitagawa regained his seat representing the Osaka 16th district (representing Sakai-ku, Higashi-ku and Kita-ku in Sakai City) in the 2012 general election, and held the seat in the 2014 general election.\n\n"}
{"id": "1942756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942756", "title": "British Graham Land expedition", "text": "British Graham Land expedition\n\n\"A British expedition to Graham Land led by John Lachlan Cope took place between 1920 and 1922. \"\n\nThe British Graham Land expedition (BGLE) was a geophysical and exploration expedition to Graham Land in Antarctica between 1934 and 1937. Under the leadership of John Riddoch Rymill, the expedition spent two years in the Antarctic. The expedition determined that Graham Land was a peninsula. The expedition used a combination of traditional and modern practices in Antarctic exploration, using both dog teams and motor sledges as well as a single-engine de Havilland Fox Moth aircraft for exploration. Transportation to the Antarctic was in an elderly three-masted sailing ship christened the \"Penola\", which had an unreliable auxiliary engine. Additional supplies were brought on the ship \"Discovery II\".\n\nThe expedition was one of the last privately sponsored Antarctic missions, with only part of the cost covered by the UK government. Although the expedition had a very small budget, it was successful in its scientific objectives. Air survey photography and mapping was carried out for 1000 miles (1600 km) of the Graham Land coast.\n\nAll sixteen members of the landing party received the Polar Medal. The participants of the BGLE included:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1942758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942758", "title": "Hillyard, Spokane", "text": "Hillyard, Spokane\n\nHillyard is a neighborhood in Spokane, Washington which existed as a separate town between 1892 and 1924.\n\nThe town came about due to the Great Northern Railway and was named for James J. Hill, then-head of the railroad. Between 1904 and 1912, many of the town's houses were built, to house railroad workers working in the local yard. Hillyard was the home of the Great Northern's famed shops where locomotives were manufactured, repaired, and refurbished. At the time, the Hillyard shop was the largest in the nation.\n\nIn 1924, Hillyard was officially annexed by neighboring Spokane.\n\nDue to its historical roots as a town housing railroad workers, Hillyard acquired a rather rough reputation, which lasts into recent decades. (As recently as 1979, Daniel Leen described the Hillyard train yards in his book \"The Freighthoppers Manual for North America\" as having \"the feel of warmed-over death.\") After the Great Northern underwent a series of mergers, becoming the Burlington Northern Railroad and eventually the BNSF Railway, the Hillyard yard and shops were closed in the early 1980s with BN's main yard operations in Spokane moving to Yardley. Only the decaying structures of the old shops remain today. Hillyard suffers some of the worst poverty in Spokane, per capita it is the poorest neighborhood in the state of Washington.\n\nHillyard continues as a neighborhood of Spokane in which residents take pride. A Hillyard Festival is held every year in August, and the preservation of historic buildings is a local concern. Murals and a small railroad museum celebrate the town's history. Many of the neighborhood's residents are descended from the railroad workers who started the town, but Hillyard is recently becoming a popular home for immigrants of Russian, Ukrainian, Micronesian, and Southeast Asian descent. The downtown Hillyard business district, located on Market Street, has become Spokane's first neighborhood to be listed in the National Register of Historic Places. According to Teresa Brum, Spokane's Historic Preservation Officer in charge of the project to have Hillyard listed on the National Register: \"This is the most architecturally intact neighborhood left in Spokane. Most of it looks as it did 90 years ago.\" Hillyard neighborhood is still there and is still home to lower income people of Spokane.\n\nThe North Spokane Corridor has forced a large number of relocations in the neighborhood. However, it is predicted that the freeway's presence will help revitalize areas of the neighborhood that remain.\n"}
{"id": "1942760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942760", "title": "Yuriko Koike", "text": "Yuriko Koike\n\nBorn and raised in Ashiya, Hyōgo, a wealthy, small, city near Kobe, Koike went to Kōnan Girls' Junior and Senior High School for her secondary education. Her father, Yūjirō Koike, was a foreign trade merchant who handled oil products. He was also involved in politics, supporting Shintarō Ishihara and the Tatenokai in the 1960s, and ran unsuccessfully for national election in 1969. Yūjirō emphasised to Yuriko that it was essential for Japan to strengthen relations with Arab countries to ensure a stable petroleum supply to prevent Japan being thrust into an oil war again the future. After dropping out of Kwansei Gakuin University's School of Sociology in September 1971, she went on to study Arabic at the American University in Cairo and received a Bachelor of Arts in Sociology from Cairo University in October 1976. When she was 21, she married a fellow Japanese student but divorced soon after. She began to work as an interpreter of Arabic and later became a journalist, interviewing Muammar Gaddafi and Yasser Arafat in 1978, and becoming a news anchor in 1979. She received the Female Broadcaster of Japan award in 1990.\n\nKoike was elected to the House of Councillors in 1992 as a member of the Japan New Party. She was then elected to the House of Representatives in 1993, representing the Hyogo 2nd district. In 1996, she was re-elected to the House of Representatives, this time representing the Hyogo 6th district for the New Frontier Party. She held this seat in the 2000 election as a candidate of the New Conservative Party. She joined the Liberal Democratic Party in 2002. She also has been a regular contributor to Project Syndicate since 2010.\n\nShe served as the Minister of the Environment and Minister of State for Okinawa and Northern Territories Affairs in the Cabinet of Prime Minister Jun'ichirō Koizumi. Along with Satsuki Katayama and Makiko Fujino, Koike became known as one of Koizumi's \"assassins\" in the 2005 Lower House election, running in Tokyo against an LDP hardliner candidate who opposed Koizumi's policies.\n\nShe was appointed the first female Minister of Defense in June 2007 during the first term of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, but announced in August 2007 that she intended to resign from the post, citing the Aegis classified information leak scandal as a reason. Koike later hinted that the much-publicized fight she had had with Chief Cabinet Secretary Yasuhisa Shiozaki over a vice-minister replacement was the real reason, as the opposition would use that to oppose a bill on Japan's terrorism laws.\n\nOn 8 September 2008, she launched her bid to become president of the LDP and became the first woman ever to seek the premiership in Japan's history: \"I have received the enthusiastic support of my colleagues. In order to break through the deadlock facing Japanese society, I believe the country might as well have a female candidate. Hillary used the word 'glass ceiling' ... but in Japan, it isn't glass, it's an iron plate. I'm not Mrs. Thatcher, but what is needed is a strategy that advances a cause with conviction, clear policies and sympathy with the people.\" In the leadership election, held on 22 September, Tarō Asō won with 351 of the 527 votes; Koike placed third with 46 votes.\n\nFollowing the resignation of Tokyo governor Naoki Inose in December 2013, Koike was widely rumored to be a potential candidate for the gubernatorial election expected to be held in February 2014, along with Hideo Higashikokubaru, Hakubun Shimomura, Seiko Hashimoto and Yōichi Masuzoe. She ultimately did not run, and Masuzoe won.\nAfter Masuzoe announced his resignation in June 2016, Koike announced her intention to run in the election for his successor. Koike stated that she would run \"as an LDP lawmaker\" but did not obtain the approval of the Tokyo LDP chapter before announcing her candidacy. The LDP officially endorsed Hiroya Masuda, and its Tokyo chapter issued a notice that any members supporting Koike would be punished. Nonetheless, several prominent LDP politicians continued to back Koike, while senior leaders such as Shinzo Abe refrained from making speeches in support of either candidate.\n\nKoike was elected Governor of Tokyo on 31 July 2016, becoming the first woman in the post.\n\nOn August 21, 2016, at the 2016 Summer Olympics closing ceremony, Koike received the Olympic Flag, via Thomas Bach, from the mayor of Rio de Janeiro, Eduardo Paes.\n\nOn 31 May 2017, in advance of the upcoming local elections, Koike resigned from the Liberal Democratic Party and officially became the leader of Tomin First no Kai (Tokyoites First). Koike founded the group in 2016 in preparation for the elections and formed an alliance with Komeito in an effort to secure a governing majority in Tokyo's parliament. On July 3, 2017, the alliance took a majority in the prefectural election, pushing out the Liberal Democratic Party with a combined 79 seats of the 127-seat assembly.\n\nKoike supports economic liberalism, promotes administrative and budgetary reform, and insists on further advancement of the status of women in the working world. In promising the pursuit of women-friendly policies, she has stated, \"I believe that pushing policies for women will be good for Tokyo and bring happiness to the capital.\" Her stated basic principles and stance regarding political reform are encompassed by \"The 5 Cs: Check, Challenge, Change, Creative and Communication\". In terms of the economy, she has used for aggressive privatization of Japanese assets to diminish the government's debt burden. A strong turn towards IT development, natural sciences, sustainable infrastructure, and efficiency-based administrative reforms for public services were also on the docket.\n\nHaving learned an environmental way of life from her own experience of wartime austerities in Egypt, Koike addresses environmental issues. She expressed the idea of introducing a carbon tax in 2005 so that Japan might achieve the goals of the Kyoto Protocol. The next year, she inaugurated the \"Mottainai Furoshiki\" campaign, which urges shoppers to use furoshiki in place of plastic shopping bags. She is against the use of biofuels made from food crops.\n\nAs a conservative nationalist, she belonged to the Diet members' league to support the Japanese Society for History Textbook Reform. Koike was one of the five vice secretaries general of the Diet Members' Committee of Nippon Kaigi, the country's largest conservative think tank and the main nationalist lobby, once chaired by Tarō Asō. She is also known to have powerful ties to large conservative political groups, like the Japan Conference.\n\nShe was a member of the Diet members' group to promote Yasukuni Shrine visits, led by Yoshinobu Shimamura, and goes to pay her respects to the war dead at the shrine on War-End Day, 15 August, almost every year. Not being able to visit in 2007 due to an official trip to Okinawa, she sent her proxy.\n\nHer foreign and security policies are often regarded as hawkish. She suggested that the prime minister revise the interpretation of Article 9 of the Constitution of Japan to enable the government to exercise the right to collective self-defense.\n\nShe has supported the United States and the War on Terror and opposes the Japanese government's tradition of UN-centered foreign policy. However, she has sent mixed messages to the United States in terms of destabilizing the Middle East with democratization efforts. On the other hand, showing parts of the world how powerful the United States is as an ally is a priority. During the 2008 LDP leadership election, she pledged to make Russia return the four disputed islands to Japan if she was elected as prime minister. Overall, Koike is a diplomatic leader. Back in 2010, she helped strengthen ties between Libya's Muammar Quaddafi and Japan. This led to the creation of the Japan-Libya Friendship Association.\n\nKoike has also actively promoted Japanese pop culture, appearing in cosplay as Sally from \"Sally the Witch\" in 2015, and stating during her 2016 Tokyo gubernatorial campaign that she wanted to turn all of Tokyo into an \"anime land\".\n\nKoike initiated \"Jisa Biz\" (時差biz) in July 2017 to promote telecommuting and staggered work times to reduce congestion during the morning rush hour in Tokyo.\n\nIn 2017, Koike launched and led a new national political party. It was called Kibō no Tō, which means \"Party of Hope\". Although still Governor of Tokyo, she was the primary leader of this party. It was assumed that this party could have been the main opposition to the LDP. On October 22, 2017, the Party of Hope did not perform as well at the polls as expected. Koike's overarching policies were similar to those of current Prime Minister Shinzo Abe. The policy to set them apart was their differing opinions on nuclear energy. Koike was opposed to it as an advocate of the environment. Koike did not join any successor party to the Party of Hope at its April 2018 dissolution.\n\n"}
{"id": "1942764", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942764", "title": "Sonora Smart Dodd", "text": "Sonora Smart Dodd\n\nSonora Smart Dodd (February 18, 1882 – March 22, 1978) was the daughter of American Civil War veteran William Jackson Smart and was responsible for the founding of Father's Day.\n\nSonora Louise Smart was born in Jenny Lind, Sebastian County, Arkansas to William Jackson Smart (1842–1919) and his wife Ellen Victoria Cheek Smart (1851–1898). William Smart was a farmer who served as a sergeant in the Union's First Arkansas Light Artillery during the Civil War. In 1889 when Sonora was seven years old, the Smart family moved from Marion, Arkansas, to a farm west of Spokane, Washington between Creston and Wilbur.\n\nWhen Sonora was 16, her mother died in childbirth with her sixth child. Sonora was the only daughter and shared with her father William in the raising of her younger brothers, including her new infant brother Marshall. Sonora Smart married John Bruce Dodd (1870–1945), one of the original founders of Ball & Dodd Funeral Home, and had a son, John Bruce \"Jack\" Dodd, born in 1909.\n\nSmart held her father in great esteem. While hearing a church sermon about the newly recognized Mother's Day at Central Methodist Episcopal Church, Sonora felt strongly that fatherhood needed recognition as well. She approached the Spokane Ministerial Alliance and suggested her own father's birthday, of June 5, as the day of honor for fathers. The Alliance chose the third Sunday in June instead.\n\nThe first Father's Day was celebrated June 19, 1910, in Spokane, Washington. Although observance of the holiday faded in the 1920s, over time, the idea of Father's Day became popular and embraced across the nation. In 1916, President Woodrow Wilson sent a telegraph to Spokane praising Father's Day services. William Jennings Bryan was another early admirer of the observance. In 1966, President Lyndon B. Johnson signed a presidential proclamation declaring the third Sunday of June as Father's Day. In 1972, President Nixon established a permanent national observance of Father's Day to be held on the 3rd Sunday of June each year.\n\nDodd was honored at Expo '74, the World's Fair, in Spokane in 1974. She died four years later at the age of ninety-six, and was buried in Greenwood Memorial Terrace in Spokane.\n\nBesides her advocacy for Father's Day, Dodd was also active in the Spokane chapter of the Woman's Christian Temperance Union.\n\nIn the 1920s, Dodd spent some time away from Spokane, studying at the School of the Art Institute of Chicago, painting, writing poetry, and working in fashion design in Hollywood.\n"}
{"id": "1942768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942768", "title": "Chief Secretary for Administration", "text": "Chief Secretary for Administration\n\nThe Chief Secretary for Administration, commonly known as the Chief Secretary of Hong Kong, is the most senior principal official of the Government of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region. The Chief Secretary is head of the Government Secretariat which oversees the administration of the Region to which all other ministers belong, and is accountable for his or her policies and actions to the Chief Executive and to the Legislative Council. Under Article 53 of the Basic Law, the position is known as \"Administrative Secretary\". As the second highest ranking public official in Hong Kong, the Chief Secretary acts as Acting Chief Executive when the Chief Executive is absent. \n\nThe Chief Secretary formulates and implements government policy, gives advice to the Chief Executive as a member of the Executive Council, and is responsible for managing the Government's relationship with the Legislative Council and drawing up the Government's legislative programme. The office also exercises certain statutory functions, such as the handling of appeals from designated public bodies.\n\nPrior to the transfer of sovereignty of Hong Kong in 1997, the office was known simply as \"Chief Secretary\" (), and before 27 August 1976, \"Colonial Secretary\". Until the introduction of the Principal Officials Accountability System in 2002, the Chief Secretary was a civil service position, and in this capacity, the head of the public service. In 2005, Henry Tang became the first person who has not been a civil servant to be appointed to the office of the Chief Secretary.\n\nFrom the 1870s to 1902 the Colonial Secretary was the \"de facto\" Lieutenant Governor of Hong Kong which was once held by the Commander of British Forces in Hong Kong before 1870s when the post was not lapsed from power. After 1902 the title disappeared from use as the second highest post was transferred to the Colonial Secretary and later, Chief Secretary.\n\nPolitical party: \n\nThe Chief Secretary resides at an official residence at 15 Barker Road, The Peak, Hong Kong, which is also known as Victoria House and Victoria Flats.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1942777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942777", "title": "Flash pan", "text": "Flash pan\n\nThe flash pan or priming pan is a small receptacle for priming powder, found next to the touch hole on muzzleloading guns. Flash pans are found on gonnes, matchlocks, wheellocks, snaplocks, snaphances, and flintlocks.\n\nThe flash pan was at first attached to the gun barrel, but was later moved to the lock plate of the gun. A small amount of finely ground gunpowder is placed in the flash pan and ignited. The flash of flame travels through the touch hole igniting the main charge of propellant inside the barrel. Unlike the cannon, it was not necessary (or desirable) to place priming in the touch hole itself. The flash alone, and not particles of burning powder, was enough to ignite the main charge.\n\nThe ignition of the main charge from the flash pan was not a guaranteed operation, however, and sometimes it failed. In those cases the spark would flash in the pan, but the gun would fail to fire. This led by the end of the 17th century to the expression \"\"flash in the pan\"\" to mean a failure after a brief and showy start, or momentary sensation of no real importance.\n\n"}
{"id": "1942785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942785", "title": "Narushima Ryūhoku", "text": "Narushima Ryūhoku\n\nNarushima Ryūhoku (成島柳北, 1837–1884) was a Japanese author and scholar born in Asakusa. His given name was Korehiro (惟弘). The Narushima family were \"okujusha\" (奥儒者), or Confucian tutors to the Tokugawa \"shōguns\", who were also involved in editing the \"Tokugawa jikki\" (德川實紀）and other historical annals, including the \"Nochikagami\" (後鑑). Ryuhoku participated in these editing projects as a young man.\n\nHe served as tutor to the shoguns Tokugawa Iesada and Iemochi but was, according to some theories, dismissed because he wrote a poem critical of the fact that his recommendations had not been adopted. At that time he took up Western studies. During the Keiō period (1866–68) he served in the shogun's cavalry and also briefly as Minister of Foreign Affairs. After the Meiji Restoration, he took up a position with the Higashi Honganji Temple, which sponsored a tour for him and four other men to Europe and the United States in 1872–73.\n\nSoon after his return to Japan, Ryuhoku became the editor of the \"Chōya Shinbun\" (朝野新聞), and also founded the literary journal \"Kagetsu shinshi\" (花月新誌). In 1876, he was imprisoned for four months when he ran afoul of the Meiji government's press laws. After his release, he published an essay entitled \"Gokunaibanashi\" (ごく内ばなし). He had a very critical attitude towards the great functionaries of Satsuma and Chōshū, who although vassals of the former shogunate, were then acting pretentiously in their new roles as leaders of the Meiji government. In protest, he declared that \"I will become a useless person between natures,\" and started to write satire.\n\nRyuhoku's most famous work is \"Ryūkyō Shinshi\" (柳橋新誌), or \"New Chronicles of Yanagibashi\", the first volume of which he began writing in 1859, and the second volume of which he began writing in 1871. The work concerns the world of the pleasure quarters of Yanagibashi, humorously depicting cultural shifts from the Edo period to the Meiji period. \"Kōsei Nichijō\" (航西日乗), or \"Diary of a Journey to the West\", is the travelogue he wrote during his journey to Europe and the United States in 1872–73.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1942786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942786", "title": "Gershon Legman", "text": "Gershon Legman\n\nGershon Legman (November 2, 1917 – February 23, 1999) was an American cultural critic and folklorist, best known for his books \"The Rationale of the Dirty Joke\" (1968) and \"The Horn Book: Studies in Erotic Folklore and Bibliography\" (1964).\n\nLegman was born in Scranton, Pennsylvania to Emil and Julia Friedman Legman, both of Hungarian-Jewish descent; his father was a railroad clerk and butcher. \nAfter a failed stab at rabbinical school Legman attended and graduated from Scranton's Central High School, where Jane Jacobs and Cy Endfield were classmates. He enrolled in the University of Michigan for one semester in the fall of 1935, but left without sitting for his exams. He then settled in New York City where for a number of years he was a part-time freelance assistant to the physician and sexological researcher Robert Latou Dickinson at the New York Academy of Medicine while simultaneously working in the bookshop of Jacob Brussel, where a brisk business was done in publishing and selling contraband erotica; while spending long hours at the New York Public Library acquiring an autodidactic education. In the late 1940s he became the editor of the little magazine \"Neurotica\".\n\nThroughout his career Legman was an independent scholar without institutional affiliation, except for one year during 1964–1965 when he was a writer in residence at the University of California, San Diego, in the first year of the new campus' undergraduate programs. He pioneered the serious academic study of erotic and taboo materials in folklore. He also was a talented raconteur and could spin out tales non-stop for hours.\n\nAs a young man he acquired a number of interests including sexuality, erotic folklore, also origami—for which he was a pivotal figure in founding the modern international movement. In 1940, at age 23, Legman wrote \"Oragenitalism, Part I: Cunnilinctus\" under the pen name Roger-Maxe de la Glannège. Nearly all copies were seized by the police and destroyed in a raid on Jacob Brussel's shop. For a period of time, Legman was a bibliographic researcher and book scout for the Kinsey Institute.\n\nIn 1949, he published \"Love and Death\", an attack on sexual censorship, arguing that American culture was permissive of graphic violence in proportion to, and as a consequence of, its repression of the erotic. Legman published and shipped the treatise himself, although he ran afoul of the United States Post Office Department authorities, who stopped his deliveries due to the supposed \"indecent, vulgar, and obscene\" content. The book also included a chapter that attacked contemporary pre-Code comic books as harmful to children for their celebration of violence, foreshadowing the later crusade against the comic book industry dominated by Fredric Wertham.\n\n\"Love and Death\" was an outgrowth of the little magazine \"Neurotica\", edited by Jay Landesman and published in nine issues between 1948 and 1952. Legman was a regular contributor and eventually took over from Landesman as editor. Other contributors included John Clellon Holmes, Larry Rivers, Carl Solomon, Judith Malina, Allen Ginsberg, Marshall McLuhan, and Kenneth Patchen, which gave it influence disproportionate to its small circulation of a few thousand. The magazine had a few clashes with the authorities, and closed after the censors objected to an article on castration written by Legman.\n\nThe full set of \"Neurotica\" was reprinted in one volume by Hacker Art Books, New York, in 1963. \"The Horn Book : Studies in Erotic Folklore and Bibliography\" was a collection of assorted writings from the 1950s and 1960s. Legman was a prolific writer of essays, reviews, and scholarly introductions, including those for the anonymous Victorian erotic memoir \"My Secret Life\" (1966), Aleksandr Afanasyev's \"Russian Secret Tales\" (1966), and Mark Twain's \"The Mammoth Cod\" (1976). He supplemented his income at times through the sale of rare erotica.\n\nOn account of his trial for violating United States Post Office regulations in his distributing his book \"Love and Death\", Legman found it prudent to depart the United States.\n\nIn 1953 Legman left his native United States for a farm, \"La Clé des Champs\", in the village of Valbonne in the South of France, where he was able to pursue his intellectual interests with greater freedom. In 1955 he organized an exhibition of Akira Yoshizawa's origami at the Stedelijk Museum in Amsterdam.\n\nLegman spent several decades compiling specimens of bawdy humor including limericks. In 1970, his first volume of over 1,700 limericks (published in 1953 by Les Hautes Etudes, Paris) was released in the United States as \"The Limerick\". He followed this with a second volume, \"The New Limerick\" in 1977, which was reprinted as \"More Limericks\" in 1980. His magnum opus was \"Rationale of the Dirty Joke: (An Analysis of Sexual Humor)\", a tour de force of erotic folklore, succeeded by \"No Laughing Matter : Rationale of the Dirty Joke: An Analysis of Sexual Humor, 2nd Series\", for which a subscription had to be paid to support publishing, as no publisher would touch it after Grove did volume one in 1968. Near the end of his life, Legman edited \"Roll Me in Your Arms\" and \"Blow the Candle Out,\" two volumes of bawdy songs and lore collected by Vance Randolph (both 1992). Other achievements include his edition of Robert Burns' \"The Merry Muses of Caledonia\" (1965).\n\nThe title of Gershon Legman's autobiography, \"Peregrine Penis\", was a sobriquet bestowed on him by his girlfriend Louise \"Beka\" Doherty, on account of the fact that he \"used to travel to meet her in strange places.\" The writing of \"Peregrine Penis\", over \"six hundred pages\" in length, was continually subsidized by Larry McMurtry.\n\nOn September 5, 2016, Book One of Gershon Legman's autobiography became available as a print-on-demand, two-volume set, carefully edited by Judith Evans Legman (G. Legman's widow), under the title \"I Love You, I Really Do\". On March 8, 2017, Book Two appeared in a third volume, under the title \"Mooncalf\", which continues the story of Legman's life up to the eve of World War II.\nBook Three, \"World I Never Made\", was released in a fourth volume in August 2017. A fifth volume, \"Musick to My Sorrow\", was published in March 2018, and a sixth volume, \"Windows of Winter & Flagrant Delectations\", appeared in October 2018.\n\nLegman was in many senses a radical, but never identified with the movements of his time, decrying the sexual revolution, for example, in \"The Fake Revolt\" (1967), and leaving countless irascible \"obiter dicta\" on such topics as women's liberation, rock and roll and the psychedelic movement's use of mind-altering substances. However, he said he was the inventor of the famous phrase \"Make love, not war\", in a lecture given at the University of Ohio in 1963. He remained essentially an individualist and an idealist: \"I consider sexual love the central mystery and central reality of life\", he wrote. And \"I believe in a personal and intense style, and in making value judgements [\"sic\"]. This is unfashionable now, but is the only responsible position\". Mikita Brottman offers the consensus view of Legman as, in many ways, his own worst enemy, exacerbating his rejection by the academic community with vitriolic attacks upon it.\n\nIn Bruce Jackson's view \"Legman is the person, more than any other, who made research into erotic folklore and erotic verbal behavior academically respectable\" and who made accessible to other scholars material that scholarly journals had long been afraid to publish.\n\nGershon Legman died February 23, 1999, in his adopted home country, France, after several years of debility, and a week after suffering a massive stroke.\n\nAccording to George Chauncey's book \"Gay New York: Gender, Urban Culture, and the Making of the Gay Male World, 1890–1940\", Legman was a homosexual and is credited with having invented the vibrating dildo when he was only twenty. However, Mikita Brottman holds that he was exclusively heterosexual, accounting for both the abandonment of his proposed volume on fellatio as well as, possibly and in some measure, for his contempt for Alfred Kinsey. He was married for many years to Beverley Keith (died of lung cancer, 1966), married briefly to Christine Conrad, ended by annulment, then to Judith Evans.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1942789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942789", "title": "WICU-TV", "text": "WICU-TV\n\nWICU-TV, virtual and VHF digital channel 12, is an NBC-affiliated television station licensed to Erie, Pennsylvania, United States. The station is owned by SJL Broadcasting; Lilly Broadcasting, which owns dual CBS/CW+ affiliate WSEE-TV (channel 35), operates WICU under a shared services agreement (SSA). The two stations share studios on State Street in downtown Erie and transmitter facilities on Peach Street in Summit Township, Pennsylvania.\n\nWICU-TV's broadcast signal reaches the city of Erie, surrounding communities, and across Lake Erie in parts of Ontario, Canada. It is available on all cable systems in Erie, Warren and Crawford counties in Pennsylvania, and select providers in Venango County, Pennsylvania, southwestern New York State, and northeastern Ohio which are part of the Pittsburgh, Buffalo, Cleveland, and Youngstown markets respectively. As recently as the 1990s, it was available on cable as far east as Olean, New York (well out of WICU's broadcast range and in competition with Buffalo NBC affiliate WGRZ).\n\nWICU-TV began broadcasting in Erie on March 15, 1949 as an affiliate of all four networks of the time (NBC, CBS, ABC, and DuMont). It was one of the last stations to be granted a construction permit before the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) froze new applications. Channel 12 was founded by Edward Lamb, an attorney from Toledo, Ohio who also owned the now-defunct \"Erie Dispatch-Herald\", and other broadcast properties including WTVN-TV (now WSYX) in Columbus, Ohio, which went on the air six months later. In 1952, Lamb purchased WIKK radio (1330 AM, later WICU and now WFNN), giving channel 12 a sister station on radio.\n\nThe station was a major beneficiary of a quirk in the FCC's plan for allocating stations. In the early days of broadcast television, there were twelve VHF channels available and 69 UHF channels (later reduced to 55 in 1983). The VHF bands were more desirable because they carried longer distances and, because most televisions did not carry UHF tuners until being forced to by the All-Channel Receiver Act in the 1960s, VHF receivers were more accessible. Since there were only twelve VHF channels available, there were limitations as to how closely the stations could be spaced.\n\nAfter the FCC's \"Sixth Report and Order\" ended the license freeze and opened the UHF band in 1952, it devised a plan for allocating VHF licenses. Under this plan, almost all of the country would be able to receive two commercial VHF channels plus one noncommercial channel. Most of the rest of the country (\"1/2\") would be able to receive a third VHF channel. Other areas would be designated as \"UHF islands\" since they were too close to larger cities for VHF service. The \"2\" networks became CBS and NBC, \"+1\" represented non-commercial educational stations, and \"1/2\" became ABC (which was the weakest network usually winding up with the UHF allocation where no VHF was available).\n\nHowever, Erie was sandwiched between Pittsburgh (channels 2, 4, 11 and 13) to the south, Wheeling/Steubenville (channels 7 and 9) to the southwest, Cleveland (channels 3, 5 and 8) to the west, State College (channels 3, 6, and 10, later 8) to the southeast, Buffalo (channels 2, 4 and 7) to the northeast, and London, Ontario (channel 10) to the north. This created a large \"doughnut\" in Northwestern Pennsylvania where there could only be \"one\" VHF license. WICU-TV was fortunate to gain that license, and as a result has been the market leader in Erie for most of its history. Channel 12 held a monopoly on Erie television until WSEE-TV signed-on in 1954 as a CBS affiliate. The two stations, then separately owned, shared ABC programs until WJET-TV (channel 24) signed-on in 1966.\n\nEdward Lamb nearly lost WIKK (renamed WICU [AM] in 1957) and WICU-TV in 1954 due to allegations that he associated with Communists, but was exonerated in 1957. A decade later, in August 1967, Lamb reorganized his business interests, selling off all non-broadcast holdings as well as WICU radio. Lamb's company, later renamed Great Lakes Communications, continued to hold channel 12. After Lamb's death in 1987, his family continued to own the station until 1996, when it was sold to SJL Communications, a subsidiary of SJL Broadcast Management and Alta Management. SJL purchased Alta's interest in 2005. A Consummation Notice was filed with the FCC in February 2007 to voluntarily transfer control of the station from SJL Communications to SJL Broadcast Management Corporation. This transaction was then authorized by the FCC.\nIn 2002, the station became the senior partner in a local marketing agreement with WSEE-TV. From that point until June 1, 2009, WSEE-TV continued to operate from its own studios on Peach Street in Downtown Erie. On that date, that station along with its CW subchannel merged into WICU-TV's facilities. WICU's broadcasts became digital-only, effective June 12, 2009, the day all television stations transitioned from analog to digital broadcasts under federal mandate. It was the last analog station serving the Erie region to make the switch.\n\nWICU-TV has aired an annual telethon for the Kanzius Cancer Research Foundation since 2008.\n\nWICU-TV and WSEE-TV merged their websites in June 2011.\n\nThe station's digital signal is multiplexed:\nAlthough the shared services agreement between WICU-TV and WSEE-TV was established in 2002, the actual beginning of newscast consolidation between the two did not start until WSEE-TV actually moved into WICU-TV's studios. WSEE-TV aired the final newscast from its separate Peach Street studios on May 28, 2009.\n\nWSEE-TV's weeknight show at 11 moved to its CW-affiliated subchannel so it would no longer directly compete with WICU-TV's newscast. The program in its new time slot now began to air against another prime time newscast seen for an hour on Fox affiliate WFXP (channel 66).\n\nIn November 2012, Lilly Broadcasting invested close to a million dollars to build the first HD local news studios with WICU-TV and WSEE-TV. Both WICU-TV and WSEE-TV gather news in the field in full HD and present the news in the same high definition format.\n\nWICU-TV airs a midday show during the week at 12:30 as opposed to noon in order for WSEE to offer a live newscast in the traditional time slot. On weekends, the two television stations jointly produce local news at 11 while WICU-TV only provides an early evening broadcast at 6 on Saturdays and Sundays. These shows are known as \"Weekends Now\" and can be delayed or preempted on one station due to network obligations.\n\nDuring the week, WICU-TV and WSEE-TV maintain primary personnel such as news and sports anchors that only appear on one station. Most video footage and content is shared, however. In cases of breaking news, severe weather, or election coverage the two simulcast newscasts and occasionally include the CW subchannel as well. On weekday mornings, WSEE-DT2 provides a simulcast of the first hour of \"12 News Today\" at 5 and WICU-TV's midday show at 12:30.\n\nIn September 2015, Lilly Broadcasting announced that WICU-TV and WSEE-TV would no longer produce separate morning and evening newscasts as of October 12; the two stations will instead simulcast newscasts in these time periods under the joint brand \"Erie News Now\". The stations' executive vice president, John Christianson, said that the WICU and WSEE newscasts were seen by viewers to have been essentially the same newscast with different anchors.\n\n"}
{"id": "1942791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942791", "title": "Derek Grant (drummer)", "text": "Derek Grant (drummer)\n\nDerek Richard Grant (sometimes known as Derek R. Grant) is an American musician, singer and songwriter best known as the third and current drummer for punk rock band Alkaline Trio, having joined the band in 2001. He is also a member of Chicago \"supergroup\" Dead Ending. He was previously a member of The Suicide Machines, Telegraph, Gyga, Thoughts of Ionesco, Remainder, Walls of Jericho, The Exceptions and Broken Spoke. In addition to playing the drums, Grant is a talented guitarist and vocalist, and has filled in as guitarist for both Face to Face (1998) and The Gaslight Anthem (October 2008).\n\nHe has frequently filled in on drums for Josh Freese on many Vandals Tours since 1998, and with Good Charlotte during the later half of 2004.\n\nIn September 2008, Derek released an 8-song album free via his MySpace page entitled \"D.Grant Meets the Reaper\" which is a collaboration with his 12-year-old alter ego. The songs were written between the ages of 11–14, and feature Derek at age 12 on vocals, with newly re-recorded music.\n\nIn February 2009 Derek released a three-song EP free via his Myspace page entitled \"The Purple Trilogy\". This material, recorded by Derek (with help from Saves the Day guitarist Arun Bali) is described as \"Electro-Funk\" and features a cover of an unreleased Prince track (\"Electric Intercourse\"), and two original compositions.\n\nIn October 2014 Derek released a digital single for \"Love is a Bad Dream\", a track from his forthcoming debut solo album. It was backed with the non-album track \"Don't Marry Me\".\n\nIn January 2015 Derek released his album, \"Break Down\", through Red Scare Industries. It contains eight songs, written and recorded in 2008/2009. All instruments on the album are played by Derek.\n\nIn May 2015 Derek released a 7-inch with Australian singer-songwriter Dan Cribb, through Pee Records. The physical release contained two songs each, with an additional one-song each released digitally. It was mixed by The Swellers frontman Nick Diener at Oneder Studios in Michigan who also played bass and guitar and sung on Dan's songs.\n\nIn 2017 Derek reunited with Detroit post-hardcore band Thoughts of Ionesco to record an EP, \"Skar Cymbals\". The band also performed their first concert in over seventeen years in Detroit, MI.\n\nGrant plays C&C Custom drums, Sabian cymbals, Pro-Mark sticks, Remo heads, Tama, and DW hardware. He also plays Fender guitars.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1942798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942798", "title": "Roland Jupiter-4", "text": "Roland Jupiter-4\n\nThe Roland Jupiter-4 (JP-4) was an analog synthesizer manufactured by the Roland Corporation between 1978 and 1981. It was notable as the company's first self-contained polyphonic synthesizer, and for containing digital control of analog circuits (termed \"Compuphonic\" by Roland), allowing for such features as programmable memories and voice assignment modes.\n\nPriced at US$2,895, it was cheaper than polyphonic machines from its competitors (such as the Yamaha CS-80, Korg PS-3300, Prophet-5 and Oberheim OB-X). However, it did not sell well in comparison. (These poor fortunes were reversed on the release of its successor model in 1981, the popular Jupiter-8.)\n\nThe Jupiter-4's basic architecture consisted of four identical voice cards, each with a VCO (and sub-oscillator), resonant low pass VCF (Roland BA662 in earlier revisions or IR3109 in later models) IC, which could self-oscillate, and variable-gain amplifier (VCA). Modulation included an Attack-Decay-Sustain-Release (ADSR) envelope for the filter, and another for the voltage-control amplifier and a final level output with an overload LED, as well as a separate unmemorized master volume control. The filter ADSR could be inverted, allowing for \"upside down\" modulation. The final VCA level setting could be memorized in user presets, and was prior to the overall master stereo output volume. The LFO, routable to oscillator pitch, pulse width, filter cutoff and amplifier, was notable for being able to reach audio frequencies, allowing for crude FM and AM synthesis. Those settings were memorized in the user presets but a fully adjustable depth remained independently configurable through the pitch wheel to combinations of VCO, VCF and VCA, as well as a bend range. The VCOs can garner unstable tuning if aging or low-quality electrolytic capacitors are used (two for each voice card). Synthesizer repair shops can replace these tuning capacitors with stable polystyrene capacitors for an instant perfect tune. Individual oscillator card VCO tuning is accessed by four capped holes in the middle of the back of the case, but the unit should be allowed to warm up before adjusting for at least 20 to 40 minutes prior to adjustment.\n\nThe Jupiter 4's two most distinctive features were provided by virtue of its \"compuphonic\" digital control of the four voice cards, made possible by two Intel 8048 chips:\n\nThe final signal path also included a simple high-pass filter and a lush stereo chorus effect based on two, now rare, MN3004 ICs. The chorus circuit board is located underneath the modulation wheel, and has one control: a front button for enabling/disabling the effect. It is lush and wide, supplying a pseudo stereo effect when both outputs are used. This filter, as well as other parts of the machine, also use the BA662 VCA chips, which are also rare. Despite evidence against its alleged sonic magic, the BA662 remains sought by many x0xb0x builders, a clone DIY kit of the Roland TB-303. Numerous such chips are used in the early JP-4 circuits and the Roland TB-303.\n\nThe Jupiter 4 had ten preset sounds and also featured eight memory locations for user-created patches. Saving to those locations requires two widely separated write record buttons to be held, to protect against accidental writing. A battery located deep between the chorus and power supply preserves the contents of the memory ICs.\n\nA quirk that catches many first-time users is that the lower right preset and user memory buttons disengage most programmable controls to the right of the arpeggiator section when a user or factory preset is used. The controls to the right of the arpeggiator are only live when the yellow manual button is selected. The controls are analog switches and potentiometers, but do not adjust the synth cards directly. They are supplied with hi/low logic voltages or 0–5 volt voltages. Multiplexers and analog to digital converters read the settings, then send them in digital form to the CPU. The CPU then converts these parameters to analog control voltages, and sends them to the analog voice cards and envelope gates. It is a remarkably stable hybrid pioneer with a great analog sound.\n\nDespite not being incredibly popular, it did find its way into the hands of some musicians, most of which were associated with the new wave and synthpop music scenes (see below). Phil Oakey of The Human League eulogized that despite its limitations \"the Jupiter 4 will be tatooed on my heart for ever\".\n\nIn 1979, Roland released a two-oscillator monophonic synthesizer called the Promars, which is often considered a monophonic version of the Jupiter-4. The Promars did not have the Jupiter-4's arpeggiator or its \"ensemble\" chorus effect, and reduced the four voice cards to two with basic detune. It had the memory and preset selection buttons above the keyboard, which were less clumsy to use than those on the Jupiter-4. It also had 37 keys, making it slightly smaller than the Jupiter-4.\n\nThe Promars was used by Depeche Mode (around early-mid 1982), Vangelis (early/mid 1980s), The Enid, Jethro Tull, Landscape and Spandau Ballet (synth lead on 'To Cut a Long Story Short').\n\nLászló Kővári aka \"Covariance\" developed a MIDI kit and CPU replacement for the Jupiter-4. \nThis two-part kit expands the Jupiter-4's patch memory from eight to sixty-four and also allows recalled patches to be dynamically modified (the original 8048 disallows editing once the patch has been saved). In addition to MIDI all sliders and switches can receive MIDI control messages, the arpeggio can be synced to the MIDI clock as well. A second LFO was also added which is even faster than the Jupiter-4's original LFO.\n\nThe retrofit kit was named Io to reference to Jupiter's moon, and Input-Output.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1942800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942800", "title": "Michael Suen", "text": "Michael Suen\n\nMichael Suen Ming-yeung ; born 7 April 1944) who served as Acting Chief Secretary for Administration in 2005 and 2012 and as Secretary for Education of Hong Kong from 2007 to 2012.\n\nBorn in Chongqing in 1944, his family fled the then provisional capital of Republic of China to Hong Kong in 1947.\n\nSuen attended Wah Yan College, a Jesuit school in Hong Kong.\n\nHe joined the colonial Hong Kong Government in 1966 as an Administrative Officer and was promoted to the rank of Director of Bureau in January 1991.\n\nDuring the early years of his career, he served in the former New Territories Administration, Resettlement Department and Environment Branch. He was appointed Secretary for Constitutional Affairs in March 1989 and Secretary for Home Affairs in November 1991. He continued his post as Secretary for Home Affairs on 8 July 1997 and took up the appointment as Secretary for Constitutional Affairs on 4 August 1997. Suen took up the post of Secretary for Housing, Planning and Lands on 1 July 2002.\n\nUpon the resignation of Donald Tsang on 25 May 2005, he assumed the post as the acting Chief Secretary for Administration, until Rafael Hui was appointed. In July 2007, he took over the position of Secretary for Education after Arthur Li retired.\n\nAround 2007 he was known for pushing trilingual education with English, Cantonese and Putonghua to boost Hong Kong's competitiveness.\n\nOn 27 April 2011, Suen announced that he was suffering from renal failure. Suen was also diagnosed with Legionnaires' disease on 21 December 2011. The new HK government headquarters found as many as 19 areas contaminated with legionella bacteria out of 43 water samples. Suen announced his recovery in January 2012.\n\nFor years as a housing chief, Suen denied to meet with housing rights activists until 2007, when some 30 activists, including Longhair Leung Kwok-hung finally camped out at Suen's house in Happy Valley to protest. Public housing citizens were suffering from excessive rent increase, and the activists tried to voice the concern. The protest turned violent outside his home, with five policemen and one protester injured. Leung was also arrested.\n\nIn 1994 Suen purchased a new home, the low-rise Shuk Yuen building in Green Lane Happy Valley. He then illegally extended the size of his home to make it bigger. As the former Secretary for Housing, Planning and Lands, his staff reportedly warned him against the illegal extension, sending him a letter in April 2006 to remove the extension, which he reportedly ignored it. In 2011, he agreed to reduce the size of the structure. Both the democratic and pro-Beijing camps criticised him.\n\n"}
{"id": "1942806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942806", "title": "Plot point", "text": "Plot point\n\nIn television and film, a plot point is a significant event within a plot that spins the action around in another direction. \n\nNoted screenwriting teacher Syd Field discusses plot points in his paradigm, popularized in his book \"Screenplay: The Foundations of Screenwriting.\" There he proposes that a well-structured movie has two plot points within a three-act structure. The first plot point occurs 20 to 30 minutes into the film (assuming a standard 120-minute running time), and the second one occurs 80 to 90 minutes into the film. The first plot point ends Act I and propels the story into Act II; likewise, the second plot point ends Act II and propels the story into Act III.\n\n"}
{"id": "1942811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942811", "title": "Tokuhime (Tokugawa)", "text": "Tokuhime (Tokugawa)\n\nTokuhime (督姫: 1565 – March 3, 1615) (\"Hime\" means \"princess\", \"lady\") was a princess during the Sengoku and Edo periods of Japanese history. She was the second daughter of Tokugawa Ieyasu; her mother was Lady Nishigori (\"西郡の方\"), one of Ieyasu's concubines. Tokuhime was also known as Ofū, Tomiko, Harima-gozen, and Ryōshō-in.\n\nIn 1582, the death of Oda Nobunaga in the Incident at Honnōji left Kai and Shinano Provinces without an overlord, and the struggle between Ieyasu and Hōjō Ujinao began. However, at that time, the two had nearly equal strength, and thinking that a serious war would weaken even the winner, they sought peace. As part of the accord, Ieyasu agreed to give Toku to Ujinao to be his wife.\n\nIn 1590, Toyotomi Hideyoshi attacked the Hōjō stronghold at Odawara Castle in the Subjugation of Odawara, eradicating the Hōjō as a power. At that time, Ujinao appealed to his father-in-law Ieyasu, who prevailed upon Hideyoshi to spare Ujinao and Toku, sending them to Mount Kōya. In the following year, Ujinao died. Princess Tokuhime and Ujinao had two daughters: Hōshuin-dono. After Ujinao's death, the princess returned to her father, Ieyasu.\n\nIn 1594, Hideyoshi arranged for Toku to marry Ikeda Terumasa. They gave birth to five sons: Ikeda Teruoki (), Ikeda Teruzumi (), Ikeda Masatsuna (), Ikeda Tadatsugu () and Ikeda Tadakatsu (); and two daughters: one of them called Furihime (振姫, later known as Kōshōin ). Tadatsugu became the lord of Okayama Castle at age five, following the death of Kobayakawa Hideaki. \n"}
{"id": "1942813", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942813", "title": "Chesapeake Energy", "text": "Chesapeake Energy\n\nChesapeake Energy Corporation is a company engaged in hydrocarbon exploration. It is headquartered in Oklahoma City. The company is named after the founder's love for the Chesapeake Bay region.\n\nThe company is ranked 309th on the Fortune 500.\n\nIn 2019, the company produced per day, of which 69% was natural gas, 24% was petroleum, and 7% was natural gas liquids. As of December 31, 2019, the company had of estimated proved reserves, of which 69% was natural gas, 23% was petroleum, and 8% was natural gas liquids.\n\nThe company was founded in 1989 by Aubrey McClendon and Tom L. Ward with a $50,000 initial investment. McClendon named the company due to his love of the Chesapeake Bay region. Ward left the company in 2006 to establish SandRidge Energy.\n\nIn 1993, the company became a public company via an initial public offering, valuing the company at $25 million.\n\nFocusing on a strategy of drilling horizontal natural gas wells in unconventional reservoirs, the company built a sizable position in the Golden Trend and Sholem Alechem fields of South-central Oklahoma and in the Giddings field of Southeast Texas.\n\nIn the mid-1990s, the company attempted to extend the Austin Chalk play into western and central Louisiana but struggled to do so.\n\nIn 1997, the company wrote down the value of its assets by over $200 million (approximately equal to shareholder's equity at the time) due to low commodity prices and implemented a turnaround plan.\n\nIn the early 2000s, after a rise in natural gas prices made it economically feasible, the company focused on unconventional drilling in carbonates, tight sandstone, and shale particularly in the Barnett Shale, Fayetteville Shale, and the Marcellus Formation.\n\nIn 2006, the company was added to the S&P 500 Index.\n\nIn 2008, the company announced its discovery of the Haynesville Shale in East Texas and northwestern Louisiana.\n\nIn 2009, the company celebrated its 20th anniversary by partnering with Orange County Choppers to create the world's first chopper powered by compressed natural gas.\n\nIn June 2012, in response to shareholder concerns about corporate governance issues under McClendon's watch, the company appointed Archie W. Dunham as chairman, while Aubrey McClendon remained CEO.\n\nIn December 2012, the company sold midstream assets for $2.16 billion.\nEffective April 1, 2013, Aubrey McClendon was forced to leave the company after revelations that he took a personal stake in Chesapeake wells and then used those investments as collateral for up to $1.1 billion in loans from banks that also financed the company.\n\nIn May 2013, Robert Douglas Lawler, an executive of Anadarko Petroleum, was named CEO of the company. In 2018, Lawler's compensation was $23 million.\n\nIn 2013, Chesapeake sold 55,000 net acres in the Northern Eagle Ford Shale and 9,600 net acres in the Haynesville Shale to EXCO for aggregate proceeds of $1 billion.\n\nIn December 2014, Chesapeake sold a large portion of its oil and gas assets in the Marcellus Formation and Utica Shale to Southwestern Energy for net proceeds of $4.975 billion. The transaction included approximately 413,000 net acres and 1,500 wells in northern West Virginia and southern Pennsylvania. Net production of the sold assets was 57,000 barrels of oil equivalent per day in December 2014.\n\nIn 2014, the company also sold additional midstream assets for $520 million.\n\nIn September 2015, the company announced layoffs of hundreds of people in Oklahoma City.\n\nOn March 2, 2016, former CEO and co-founder Aubrey McClendon died in a single-occupant single-vehicle crash when he drove his vehicle straight into a concrete bridge embankment in Oklahoma City. It occurred the day after a United States Department of Justice federal grand jury indicted McClendon for violating antitrust laws during his leadership at Chesapeake.\n\nIn 2017, the company sold assets in the Haynesville shale for $465 million.\n\nIn January 2018, the company laid off 400 employees.\n\nIn the first quarter of 2018, the company sold assets in Oklahoma for $500 million.\n\nIn February 2019, the company acquired Texas oil producer WildHorse Resource Development for $4 billion in cash and stock.\n\nBy April of 2020, their stock price had dropped below $0.20 per share indicating that bankruptcy may be inevitable.\n\nIn mid-2012, the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) began an investigation into whether Encana, Canada's largest natural gas company, \"illegally colluded with Chesapeake Energy Corp to lower the price of Michigan exploration lands during a public land auction in May 2010.\" Encana's internal investigation determined in 2012 that it did not collude with Chesapeake. The Federal investigation ended in 2014.\n\nOn June 5, 2014, the state of Michigan filed felony fraud and racketeering charges against Chesapeake Energy, alleging that the company canceled hundreds of land leases on false pretenses after it sought to obtain oil and gas rights. Michigan attorney general Bill Schuette claimed that the company \"obtained uncompensated land options from these landowners by false pretenses, and prevented competitors from leasing the land.\" Chesapeake Energy disputed all charges. In 2015, the company settled the lawsuits by agreeing to pay $25 million to the landowners.\n\nThe company has faced thousands of lawsuits regarding the alleged under-payment of royalties due to individuals that rented land to the company. In 2013, the company agreed to pay $7.5 million to settle a class action lawsuit by Pennsylvania landowners. In 2017, the company agreed to pay another $30 million to Pennsylvania landowners.\n\nOn March 1, 2016, a DOJ federal grand jury indicted Aubrey McClendon for allegedly rigging the bidding process for land leases between December 2007 and March 2012. McClendon was charged of orchestrating a conspiracy in which two oil and gas companies, not named in the indictment, colluded not to bid against each other for the purchase of land in northwestern Oklahoma. According to the indictment, the companies decided ahead of time who would win bids, with the winner then allocating an interest in the leases to the other company, eliminating open competitive bidding. The DOJ said this was the first case resulting from a continuing federal antitrust investigation into price fixing, bid rigging, and other anti-competitive conduct in the petroleum industry.\n\nThe next day, on March 2, 2016, McClendon died in a single-occupant single-vehicle crash when he drove his vehicle straight into a concrete bridge embankment. The charges were dropped by the DOJ as a result of the death.\n\n\nIn 2004, then CEO Aubrey McClendon contributed $450,000 to the campaign of Tom Corbett for attorney general of Pennsylvania. These funds were cited as the reason Corbett won the election, with a narrow margin. When Corbett eventually became governor of Pennsylvania, he was very supportive of Chesapeake's fracking activity in Pennsylvania, and Pennsylvania was the only state without a severance tax on drillers, despite the fact that the budget for education was being reduced.\n\nIn 2008, then CEO Aubrey McClendon formed American Clean Skies Foundation, a non-profit foundation focused on selling the virtues of natural gas. The foundation was funded by the company and by McClendon. The foundation was criticized for doing nothing but pushing Congress to pass policies that benefited the company and McClendon's business interests.\n\nIn 2013, the Environmental Protection Agency levied a fine of $3.2 million on a subsidiary of the company and forced it to spend $6.5 million \"to restore 27 sites damaged by unauthorized discharges of fill material into streams and wetlands\".\n\nOn April 19, 2011, due to a failed seal assembly in a wellhead, the company lost control of a natural gas well in Bradford County, Pennsylvania that was being fracture stimulated, causing a large spill of salt water and chemicals, such as 2-butoxyethanol and methanol, into the surrounding countryside. By April 22, 2011, the leak had been stemmed. Maryland announced its intention to sue the company for violation of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act and the Clean Water Act since fracking fluids from the well blowout wound up in the Chesapeake Bay.\n\nIn November 2015, the company was fined $1.4 million in Pennsylvania for a landslide caused by the company in 2011 that resulted in clogged waterways.\n\nIn 2007, the company was named the \"Best Managed Oil-and-Gas Company\" by Forbes.\n\nIn 2009, S&P Global Platts named the company as the Energy Producer of the Year and it received the Industry Leadership Award. The company was also a finalist in the Deal of the Year, CEO of the Year, and Community Development Program of the Year categories. In 2012, the company received an Award of Excellence.\n\nIn 2010, Shaleplay, the company's corporate band, won first place in the Fortune Battle of the Corporate Bands.\n\nIn 2014, the company was ranked 51st on the 100 Best Companies to Work by Fortune.\n\nIn 2011, Chesapeake Energy agreed to a 12-year naming rights partnership with the Oklahoma City Thunder for naming and branding rights of the Chesapeake Energy Arena at a cost of $3 million per year, with annual increases of 3%.\n"}
{"id": "1942824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942824", "title": "Monica Ali", "text": "Monica Ali\n\nMonica Ali (born 20 October 1967) is a Bangladeshi-born British writer and novelist. In 2003, she was selected as one of the \"Best of Young British Novelists\" by \"Granta\" magazine based on her unpublished manuscript; her debut novel, \"Brick Lane,\" was published later that year. It was shortlisted for the Man Booker Prize. It was adapted as a 2007 film of the same name. She has also published three other novels.\n\nAli was born in Dhaka, East Pakistan (now Bangladesh) in 1967 to a Bangladeshi father and an English mother. When she was three, her family moved to Bolton, England. Her father is originally from the district of Mymensingh. She went to Bolton School and then studied Philosophy, Politics and Economics at Wadham College, Oxford.\n\nBrick Lane is a street at the heart of London's Bangladeshi community. Ali's novel of the same name follows the life of Nazneen, a Bangladeshi woman who moves to London at the age of 18, to marry an older man, Chanu. They live in Tower Hamlets. At first her English consists only of \"sorry\" and \"thank you;\" the novel explores her life and adaptations in the community, as well as the character of Chanu, and their larger ethnic community. An additional narrative strand covers the experiences of Nazneen's sister, Hasina through the device of her correspondence.\n\n\"The Observer\" described Chanu as \"one of the novel's foremost miracles: twice her age, with a face like a frog, a tendency to quote Hume and the boundless doomed optimism of the self-improvement junkie, he is both exasperating and, to the reader at least, enormously loveable.\" Geraldine Bedell wrote in \"The Observer\" that the \"most vivid image of the marriage is of her [Nazneen] cutting her husband's corns, a task she seems required to perform with dreadful regularity. [Her husband] is pompous and kindly, full of plans, none of which ever come to fruition, and then of resentment at Ignorant Types who don't promote him or understand his quotations from Shakespeare or his Open University race, ethnicity and class module.\"\n\nThe novel was well received by critics in the United Kingdom and the United States, and shortlisted for the Man Booker Prize.\n\nHowever, the novel provoked controversy within the Bangladeshi community in Britain. Some groups thought Ali had negatively portrayed people from the Sylhet Division, as they constitute the majority of the Bangladeshi immigrants living in the Brick Lane community.\n\nIn 2007, the book was adapted as a film of the same name. Starring the Indian actress Tannishtha Chatterjee, the film was distributed both in the UK and internationally.\n\nWhen production was underway in 2006, some of the Bangladeshi community opposed Ruby Films' intention to film parts of the novel in the Brick Lane area. They formed the \"Campaign Against Monica Ali's Film Brick Lane\".\n\nThe writer and activist Germaine Greer expressed support for the campaign, writing in \"The Guardian:\"\nAs British people know little and care less about the Bangladeshi people in their midst, their first appearance as characters in an English novel had the force of a defining caricature ... [S]ome of the Sylhetis of Brick Lane did not recognise themselves. Bengali Muslims smart under an Islamic prejudice that they are irreligious and disorderly, the impure among the pure, and here was a proto-Bengali writer with a Muslim name, portraying them as all of that and more.\n\nGreer criticised Monica Ali's \"lack of authenticity\", as she had never spent much time in the Brick Lane community, and no longer spoke the Bengali language fluently. The writer Salman Rushdie criticised Greer for getting involved, saying that her statements were \"philistine, sanctimonious, and disgraceful, but ... not unexpected.\"\n\nAli opposed the British government's attempt to introduce the Racial and Religious Hatred Act 2006. She discussed this in her contribution to \"Free Expression Is No Offence\", a collection of essays published by Penguin in 2005.\n\nAli is an opponent of the political development of \"hurt feelings industry\", a system of laws and legal practices in Southern Asia, mainly India, which enables religious groups and organizations to feel \"hurt\" by some texts or pieces of art, with the latter ones subsequently banned. Ali coined the term of \"marketplace for outrage\" describing the commercialization of these practices.\n\nIn 2013, Ali was announced as one of several new models for Marks & Spencer's 'Womanism' campaign. Subtitled \"Britain's leading ladies\", the campaign saw Ali appear alongside British women from various fields, including pop singer Ellie Goulding, double Olympic gold medal winning boxer Nicola Adams, and actress Helen Mirren.\n\nAli lives in South London with her husband, Simon Torrance, a management consultant. They have two children, Felix (born 1999) and Shumi (born 2001).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1942842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942842", "title": "Luisa Miller", "text": "Luisa Miller\n\nLuisa Miller is an opera in three acts by Giuseppe Verdi to an Italian libretto by Salvadore Cammarano, based on the play \"Kabale und Liebe\" (\"Intrigue and Love\") by the German dramatist Friedrich von Schiller.\n\nVerdi's initial idea for a new opera – for which he had a contract going back over several years – was rejected by the Teatro San Carlo in Naples. He attempted to negotiate his way out of this obligation and, when that failed, Cammarano came up with the idea of adapting the Schiller play, with which Verdi was familiar. The process was set in motion, with Verdi still living and working on initial ideas from Paris, where he had been living for almost two years before moving back to his home town of Busseto in the summer of 1849. It was from there that he wrote the music and traveled to Naples for rehearsals. The first performance was given on 8 December 1849.\n\nThis was Verdi's 15th opera and it is regarded as the beginning of the composer's \"middle period\".\n\nIn August 1848, Verdi had written to the Naples opera house cancelling his contract of three years previous, in which he had agreed to write an opera for them. However, the management held him to it by threatening his librettist for failing to provide a libretto, and Verdi relented, encouraging Cammarano to develop \"a brief drama with plenty of interest, action and above all feeling – which would make it easier to set to music\"\n\nIn Verdi's mind, he had the perfect subject, to be based on the novel \"L'assedio di Firenze\" (\"The Siege of Florence\") by Francesco Domenico Guerrazzi, which glorified the life of the 16th Century Florentine soldier Francesco Ferruccio. This new subject was also a patriotic piece: Verdi had taken to heart the admonitions of the poet Giuseppe Giusti, who had pleaded with him after \"Macbeth\" and after Milan's political turmoil of March 1848 and its aftermath to \"do what you can to nourish the [sorrow of the Italian people], to strengthen it, and direct it to its goal\".\n\nAttempting to get a new libretto underway, Verdi approached Francesco Maria Piave, found him engaged as a soldier for the new Venetian republic, and so contacted Cammarano in Naples with the idea of \"L'assedio\". But, as it turned out, Cammarano had to tell Verdi that the Naples censors rejected the outline of a subject which had interested Verdi very much since the time he prepared his previous opera, \"La battaglia di Legnano\". His inability to continue to develop the project came as a blow. Verdi's biographer Julian Budden notes that \"next to \"Re Lear\" (\"King Lear\"), this was to be the most fascinating of Verdi unrealized subjects\" and his biographer, and Mary Jane Phillips-Matz, adds that she regards \"L'assedio di Firenze\" as \"one of Verdi's most important uncomposed works.\"\n\nCammarano advised the composer to avoid a story which had any sort of revolutionary tinge, and he came back with an idea which Verdi himself had once proposed in 1846 for adapting Schiller's \"Kabale und Liebe\" when he was recovering from his illness and in the company of Andrea Maffei (who was writing the libretto for \"I masnadieri\"). Therefore, he sent a synopsis of \"Luisa Miller\" (which he called \"Eloisa Miller\") to Verdi on 14 May 1849.\n\nVerdi's reply to Cammarano on 17 May outlines some of his concerns; these revolved around the shift of some elements (especially in act 2) and the addition of a duet for Walter and Wurm. As Budden notes, \"the only one of these points on which Verdi got his way was the new duet\" (because the librettist raised various objections regarding the conditions at the San Carlo and various others), but Budden emphasizes the \"spirit of give and take\" which prevailed through their relationship. One example regarded the ending of act 1 where Verdi emphasized that there should no stretta, and the librettist agreed provided that \"the act did not end in slow tempo but should quicken towards an animated finish.\"(See \"Music\" below).\n\nHaving moved the action to a Tyrolean village (in the 17th century) from a princely court (in the 18th) and having shifted the characters away from their princely intrigues (which preoccupied Schiller), Cammarano moves the focus much more toward the \"Liebe\" (Love) and away from the \"Kabale\" (Intrigue) aspects of the play.\n\nWith the idea of \"Luisa Miller\" agreed upon, from Paris Verdi approached the Naples management, trying to obtain a delay or, at least, to allow the new opera to be presented in his absence. When this approach was rejected, the composer made plans for both himself and his companion Giuseppina Strepponi to leave Paris; Verdi went to his native Busseto, arriving about 10 August, and took up residence in the Palazzo Orlandi (also referred to as the Palazzo Cavalli, after its architect) which he had bought in 1845; Strepponi joined him there a month later, for what was to be a difficult period in both their lives.\n\nIt was from Busseto that Verdi then began work on the score of this opera, having received the libretto from Cammarano on 13 August. In October he left for Naples, accompanied by Antonio Barezzi, whom he continued to refer to as his \"father-in-law\".\n\nWhen music writer Charles Osborne describes the libretto as \"inadequate as an adaptation of Schiller's excellent play [but] Cammarano's \"Luisa Miller\" is, in its own right, a very fine libretto\", he continues by comparing it with Cammarano's previous libretto for \"La battaglia di Legnano\", which contrasts:\n\nBaldini makes a similar point when he comments in his 1970 book \"The Story of Giuseppe Verdi\" that the opera \n\"is in every sense a bourgeois tragedy [and] it feeds on the extraordinary fascination we have for everyday violent crimes. Nothing so far written by Verdi comes close to the concept of realism\" and he also comments on the essentially \"private\" nature of the opera; before \"Luisa\", \"something had always been raging, striving beyond the limits of private interests,\"\n\nThe premiere, on 8 December 1849, was well received, although for Verdi, the experience of dealing with the authorities at the San Carlo Opera in Naples caused him to vow never to produce another opera there. In fact, he never did, in spite of having initially written \"Un ballo in maschera\" for that house.\n\nIn Italy following the premiere, \"Luisa\" was given in Rome in 1850 and in Venice, Florence and Milan again up to 1852. The US premiere was staged by the Caroline Richings Company at the Walnut Street Theatre in Philadelphia on 27 October 1852 with Caroline Richings in the title role. This was followed on 3 June 1858 by the first UK presentation at Her Majesty's Theatre in London.\n\nWhile not as popular as the most often performed of Verdi's works such as \"Rigoletto\", \"La Traviata\" or \"Aida\", \"Luisa Miller\" is fairly often seen on the stages of the world's opera houses.\n\nFollowing its initial six performances during the 1929/30 season at the Metropolitan Opera in New York, the opera was not given there again until 1968 under Thomas Schippers. The Luisa was Montserrat Caballé, the Rodolfo Richard Tucker, the Miller Sherrill Milnes, the Walter Giorgio Tozzi, and the Wurm Ezio Flagello. The Met has revived the work numerous times since then.\n\nNotable revivals include those featuring Caballé at the Gran Teatre del Liceu in January 1972 and at the Teatro alla Scala in May 1976. Katia Ricciarelli sang the title role along with Luciano Pavarotti several times in those years, particularly in San Francisco and again in Turin along with José Carreras. In 1978 the opera was presented at the Royal Opera House, Covent Garden, also with Ricciarelli in the title role. Luciano Pavarotti sang the role of Rodolfo in the original run; later seasons saw Ricciarelli reprising the title role with tenor José Carreras, followed by Plácido Domingo and then Carlo Bergonzi\n\nThree opera companies, which plan to present all of Verdi's operas, have given this opera: the Sarasota Opera in 1999 as part of its \"Verdi Cycle\"; the Teatro Regio di Parma in October 2007 as part of their ongoing \"Festival Verdi\"; and the ABAO in Bilbao, Spain, in 2012 as part of its \"Viva Verdi\" series.\nThe Paris Opéra at the Bastille Opera presented the work with Ana Maria Martinez and Ramón Vargas as Luisa and Rodolfo respectively on 8 March 2008.\n\nIn April–May 2010, a new production of the Zurich Opera House included Barbara Frittoli as Luisa, Fabio Armiliato as Rodolfo and Leo Nucci as Miller. In 2012, productions were seen in three German cities including Berlin, Stuttgart, and Munich, as well as Malmo in Sweden. In 2013, the opera was presented by the Israeli Opera company in Tel Aviv, by the Deutsche Oper am Rhein in Duisburg and Düsseldorf, and in Budapest. The San Francisco Opera opened their 93rd season in September 2015 by performing the opera.\n\n\"Scene 1: A village\"\n\nOn Luisa's birthday, the villagers have gathered outside her house to serenade her. She loves Carlo, a young man she has met in the village (\"Lo vidi e 'l primo palpito\" /\"I saw him and my heart felt its first thrill of love\") and looks for him in the crowd. Luisa's father, Miller, is worried by this mysterious love since Carlo is a stranger. Carlo appears and the couple sing of their love (Duet: \"t'amo d'amor ch'esprimere\" / \"I love you with a love that words can only express badly\"). As the villagers leave to enter the nearby church, Miller is approached by a courtier, Wurm, who is in love with Luisa and wishes to marry her. But Miller tells him that he will never make a decision against his daughter's will (\"Sacra la scelta è d'un consorte\" / \"The choice of a husband is sacred\"). Irritated by his reply, Wurm reveals to Miller that in reality Carlo is Rodolfo, Count Walter's son. Alone, Miller expresses his anger (\"Ah fu giusto il mio sospetto\" / \"Ah! My suspicion was correct\").\n\n\"Scene 2: Count Walter's castle\"\n\nWurm informs the Count of Rodolfo's love for Luisa and is ordered to summon the son. The Count expresses his frustration with his son (\"Il mio sangue la vita darei\" / \"I would give my life's blood\"). When Rodolfo enters, the Count tells him that it is intended that he marry Walter's niece Federica, the Duchess of Ostheim.\n\nWhen Rodolfo is left alone with Federica, he confesses that he loves another woman, hoping that the duchess will understand. But Federica is too much in love with him to understand (Duet: \"Deh! la parola amara perdona al labbro mio\" / \"Pray forgive my lips for the bitter words\").\n\n\"Scene 3: Miller's house\"\n\nMiller tells his daughter who Rodolfo really is. Rodolfo arrives and admits his deception but swears that his love is sincere. Kneeling in front of Miller he declares that Luisa is his bride. Count Walter enters and confronts his son. Drawing his sword, Miller defends his daughter and Walter orders that both father and daughter be arrested. Rodolfo stands up against his father and threatens him: if he does not free the girl, Rodolfo will reveal how Walter became count. Frightened, Walter orders Luisa to be freed.\n\n\"Scene 1: A room in Miller's home\"\n\nVillagers come to Luisa and tell her that her father has been seen being dragged away in chains. Then Wurm arrives and confirms that Miller is to be executed. But he offers her a bargain: her father's freedom in exchange for a letter in which Luisa declares her love for Wurm and states that she has tricked Rodolfo. Initially resisting (\"Tu puniscimi, O Signore\" / \"Punish me, o Lord\"), she gives way and writes the letter at the same time being warned that she must keep up the pretense of voluntarily writing the letter and being in love with Wurm. Cursing him (\"A brani, a brani, o perfido\" / \"O perfidious wretch\"), Luisa wants only to die.\n\n\"Scene:2: A room in Count Walter's castle\"\n\nAt the castle Walter and Wurm recall how the Count rose to power by killing his own cousin and Wurm reminds the Count how Rodolfo also knows of this. The two men realize that, unless they act together, they may be doomed (Duet: \"L'alto retaggio non ho bramato\" / \"The noble inheritance of my cousin\"). Duchess Federica and Luisa enter. The girl confirms the contents of her letter.\n\n\"Scene 3: Rodolfo's rooms\"\n\nRodolfo reads Luisa's letter and, ordering a servant to summon Wurm, he laments the happy times which he spent with Luisa (\"Quando le sere al placido\" / \"When at eventide, in the tranquil glimmer of a starry sky\"). The young man has challenged Wurm to a duel. To avoid the confrontation the courtier fires his pistol in the air, bringing the Count and his servants running in. Count Walter advises Rodolfo to revenge the offense he has suffered by marrying Duchess Federica. In despair, Rodolfo abandons himself to fate (\"L'ara o l'avello apprestami\" / \"Prepare the altar or the grave for me\").\n\n\"A room in Miller's home\"\n\nIn the distance echoes of the celebration of Rodolfo and Federica's wedding can be heard. Old Miller, freed from prison, comes back home. He enters his house and embraces his daughter, then reads the letter she has prepared for Rodolfo. Luisa is determined to take her own life (\"La tomba è un letto sparso di fiori\" / \"The grave is a bed strewn with flowers\"), but Miller manages to persuade her to stay with him. (Duet: \"La figlia, vedi, pentita\" / \"Your child, see, repentant\"). Alone now, Luisa continues praying. Rodolfo slips in and unseen pours poison into the water jug on the table. He then asks Luisa if she really wrote the letter in which she declared her love for Wurm. \"Yes,\" the girl replies. Rodolfo drinks a glass of water and passes a glass to Luisa, inviting her to drink. Then he tells her that they are both condemned to die. Before she dies, Luisa has time to tell Rodolfo the truth about the letter (Duet: \"Ah piangi; il tuo dolore\" / \"Weep; your sorrow is more justified\"). Miller returns and comforts his dying daughter; together the three say their prayers and farewells (Trio, Luisa: \"Padre, ricevi l'estremo addio\" / \"Father, receive my last farewell\"; Rodolfo: \"Ah! tu perdona il fallo mio\" / \"Oh, forgive my sin\"; Miller: \"O figlia, o vita del cor paterno\" / \"Oh, child, life of your father's heart\"). As Luisa dies, the peasants enter with Count Walter and Wurm. Rodolfo runs his sword through Wurm's breast, declaring to his father \"La pena tua mira\" / \"Look on your punishment\" before he dies.\n\n\"Luisa Miller\" is scored for piccolo, two flutes, two oboes, 2 clarinets, two bassoons, four horns, four offstage horns, two trumpets, three trombones, one cimbasso, one harp, timpani, a bell representing a church bell, a bell representing the castle clock, bass drum and cymbals, organ and strings.\n\nJulian Budden provides a summary of the strengths of this opera and demonstrates how it takes on many new dimensions based on several things: the relatively longer time-frame for completing the piece, the fact that Verdi did make sketches of some of the music in advance, the opportunity \"to allow the newly-acquired Parisian elements to become assimilated into his Italian style\" – resulting in \"the best of it set[ting] a new standard in Verdian opera.\" He demonstrates how in act 3, \"the sensitive scoring, the flexibility of the musical forms, the growing importance of the role which Verdi assigned to the orchestra ... permits him to write two lengthy dialogue recitatives (Luisa and Miller; Luisa and Rodolfo). Of these two duets, David Kimball notes that they \"best illustrate Verdi's habit of fashioning the musical forms to match the dramatic purpose\", although Parker slightly qualifies this by stating that he sees the opera's importance amongst those written pre-\"Rigoletto\" as being not so much \"for its formal experiments as for its control of conventional musical forms, especially the grand duet.\" In that regard, he sees it as resembling \"Il trovatore\".\n\nAs to the overall importance of \"Luisa\", Baldini goes as far as to state that:\n\nAnother musical example has been noted by Budden (See \"Composition history\" above): that Verdi was unwilling to set a conventional stretta to end act 2 (but, at the same time, he accommodated the librettist who wanted the act to conclude with music that \"should quicken towards an animated finish\"). In musical terms, Budden notes that Verdi agreed and:\n\nNotes\n\nCited source\n\nOther sources\n\n"}
{"id": "1942846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942846", "title": "Alberto Hauss", "text": "Alberto Hauss\n\nAlberto Hauss (born Ingo Hauss in 1962; also known as Bela Lagonda) is a German composer and producer. He has worked on projects with artists such as Oliver Cheatham, Beats 4 You, Chocolate, U96, F.R.E.U.D, Boytronic, ATC and Culture Beat. Hauss has also remixed songs for Aretha Franklin, Sting, and Diana Ross.\n\nCurrently, Hauss is working on the Terra Del Sol compilations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1942855", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942855", "title": "Surquillo", "text": "Surquillo\n\nSurquillo District is a district in Lima, Peru. It is bordered by the districts of San Isidro and San Borja on the north; by Miraflores on the south and west; and by Santiago de Surco on the east.\n\nDue to its central position, Surquillo is a very commercially active district, havings several businesses, most of which are hardware and construction material shops. Some car selling companies as well as Corporación Graña y Montero, one of the largest Peruvian consulting companies, are located in the district.\n\nAlthough Surquillo is completely surrounded by upscale districts, it is mostly a lower-middle class district with some working-class neighborhoods. The old town area of Surquillo is known to be dangerous and tourists are discouraged from walking there alone, as it is rife with thieves and gang violence. Nonetheless, some parts of Surquillo's residential area have lower crime rates and a higher standard of living, such as Barrio Medico, Calera de la Merced and Limatambo.\n\nAlso found Residencial San Pedro (across the park or Morococha \"Paul Harris\") located in block 13 of jiron San Pedro, which consists of seven parts.\n\nSurquillo appears on the map as a general bow tie shape, being the combination of one trapezoidal area and the area of a triangle pointing down, with Tomás Marsano Ave. as their divider. The trapezoidal area is the old-town district, made up of nearly evenly spaced blocks, while the inverted triangle is the new district, made of mostly residential zones with curving streets and uneven spacing between blocks. In 1983, Surquillo lost more than half of its territory, as the district of San Borja was created in the northern part of the district.\n\nSmall pre-Inca ruins, as well as a defense bulwark called \"Trinchera Nº 3\" and located in Angamos Avenue that was used by the Peruvian Army during the War of the Pacific against Chile, can be found in Surquillo.\n\nRegarding gastronomy, in Surquillo there is a dish called \"salchichaufa\". It consists on the fusion of two other dishes: arroz chaufa (fried rice) and salchipapa (fries and sausages).\n\n"}
{"id": "1942874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942874", "title": "Stuart Maxfield", "text": "Stuart Maxfield\n\nStuart Maxfield (born 9 April 1972) is a retired Australian rules footballer who played for Richmond and the Sydney Swans in the Australian Football League (AFL). He was the Swans' captain until 5 May 2005, when he stood down from the position.\n\nMaxfield was recruited in 1990 from Caulfield Grammar School by Richmond, and debuted that year. He played six seasons at Richmond, making 89 senior appearances.\n\nIn the 1996 pre-season AFL Draft, Richmond released Maxfield from his contract and he was drafted by Sydney, arriving at the club in the same year as Tony Lockett. Maxfield was a solid midfield contributor alongside Paul Kelly, and in 2003 was rewarded by being appointed captain after Kelly retired from the AFL.\n\nIn 2005, Stuart Maxfield and his wife separated, and he decided to resign from the Sydney captaincy to spend time with his children in Melbourne on weekdays.\n\nHe remained at the Swans, but missed much of the 2005 AFL season after resigning from the Swans captaincy, and as a result missed an opportunity to play in the 2005 AFL Grand Final in which Sydney defeated the West Coast Eagles by four points. Shortly after the game, at the club's 2005 Best and Fairest awards night, he announced his retirement from the AFL.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1942878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942878", "title": "Bionix AFV", "text": "Bionix AFV\n\nThe Bionix (BX) is a family of tracked Singaporean armoured fighting vehicles developed by Singapore Technologies Kinetics (formerly Singapore Technologies Automotive, which is now known as Singapore Technologies Engineering). Intended to augment the Singapore Army's aging M113 armoured personnel carriers, it is the first indigenous armoured vehicle to be developed in Southeast Asia. The Bionix has been operational with the Singapore Armed Forces (SAF) since 1999 in a wide variety of adaptations including the Bionix II, Bionix 25 and Bionix 40/50 variants.\n\nAside from domestic use, ST Kinetics has been marketing the Bionix to countries that wish to retire their old M113s from front-line service.\n\nAlong with the growth and development of the Singapore Armed Forces (SAF) during the mid 1980s came a need to bolster (and eventually replace) the existing fleet of M113 Armored Personnel Carriers (APCs). This prompted the Ministry of Defence (MINDEF) to source for a fleet of armored vehicles to operate in tandem with the current fleet of AMX-13 SM1 light tanks.\n\nWith the participation of the SAF, the Defence Materiel Organisation (DMO), MINDEF's systems acquisition house, was appointed to conduct a technology study and recommend the direction for the project. A market survey was conducted in which various armored vehicles including the Warrior Tracked Armoured Vehicle, the M2/M3 Bradley Fighting Vehicle, and the Schützenpanzer Marder were evaluated. The findings from the market survey showed that none of the off-the-shelf vehicles met the specific requirements of the SAF. Therefore, the decision was made to develop a vehicle locally. Local development was necessary not only because of a lack of suitable off-the-shelf designs, but also as an opportunity to build up the capability of the local defense industry. Known as \"BIONIX\", the IFV was the product of a tripartite team of engineers and technical staff from Singapore Technologies Automotive, DMO and G5 Army, working jointly with HQ Armour to produce a fighting machine tailored to the specific operational requirements of the Army. Key considerations during the design process included high mobility and agility, low weight, amphibious capability, and adequate protection and firepower.\n\nDevelopment of the Bionix began in 1988. It took several years before leaving the prototyping phase in 1995 and finally being commissioned on 26 March 1997. ST Automotive was awarded a S$2.5 billion (US$1.7 billion) contract in March 1997 to supply several hundred Bionix IFVs to the Singapore Armed Forces. The first production vehicles were inducted by the 42nd Battalion, Singapore Armoured Regiment in July 1999.\n\nThe Bionix IFV has since been succeeded by the Bionix II, which entered a trial service with the Singapore Armed Forces in 2005 with a Company from 41 SAR. In October 2006, The Bionix II was declared operationally ready with 42 SAR being the first fully equipped Bionix II battalion.\n\nThe hull and turret are of all-welded-steel construction with modular MEXAS passive armour protection. Additional armour protection can be installed with an add-on layer of spaced passive armour.\n\nThe Bionix is a compact design produced to meet the conditions of Pacific rim countries where small size is a great asset when it comes to travelling among rubber plantations and over roads and bridges not designed for heavy vehicles. The power provided by the Detroit Diesel engine to drive its 23 tonnes, ensures the Bionix is able to overcome the most difficult terrain. Future upgrades in power ratings can be developed according to needs.\n\nThe integrated power pack is mounted to the right of the vehicle and can be removed from the Bionix as a complete unit in under 15 minutes. The engine is coupled to the L-3 Combat Propulsion Systems HMPT-500EC fully hydro mechanical transmission, with the final drives being provided by David Brown Defence Systems. The engine compartment is also fitted with an automatic fire detection and dry-powder fire suppression system with a supplementary manual back up.\n\nThe layout of the Bionix is conventional with the driver at the front left, the power pack situated at the front right and the turret in the center with the troop compartment at the rear. Access to the troop compartment at the rear of the vehicle is by a power-operated ramp, which can operate as an emergency access and exit door. A single hatch is installed over the troop compartment.\n\nThe driver enters via a roof hatch that opens to the left rear. When driving closed-down, observation is via three day periscopes, while the center periscope can be rapidly replaced by an image-intensification periscope for driving at night. The driver guides the vehicle using a small steering wheel rather than tillers and, as an automatic transmission is fitted, there are just two pedals - accelerator and brake. The instrument panel is mounted on the left, with the transmission selection box on the right.\n\nIn the turret, the gunner's station is on the right and the commander's station is on the left, each with a single hatch cover. The turret traverses through 360°. Traverse and weapon elevation is by all-electric digital control. Both the gunner and commander have a turret stop button and are able to lay and fire the weapons. The gunner has the turret control box mounted to the right of his position and both turret-crew members have an adjustable seat. The communications equipment is installed in the turret bustle.\n\nThe basic production models lacks an in-built air conditioning and NBC protection system, but can be fitted if/when needed.\n\nThe gunner has a twin-control handles and a day/thermal sight, with a magnification of x8 and two fields of view (high and low), with stadias for the 25mm cannon and 7.62mm coaxial machine gun. The commander has an optical relay from the gunner's sight and a single control handle. The vehicle commander has a further five day periscopes to give observation to the turret front, left side and rear; the gunner has three periscopes (1 x M17 and 2 x L794D) to give observation to the right and rear.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1942881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942881", "title": "The House on Mango Street", "text": "The House on Mango Street\n\nThe House on Mango Street is a 1984 novel by Mexican-American author Sandra Cisneros. Structured as a series of vignettes, it tells the story of Esperanza Cordero, a 12-year-old Chicana girl growing up in the Hispanic quarter of Chicago. Based in part on Cisneros's own experience, the novel follows Esperanza over the span of one year in her life, as she enters adolescence and begins to face the realities of life as a young woman in a poor and patriarchal community. Elements of Mexican-American culture and themes of social class, race, sexuality, identity, and gender are interwoven throughout the novel.\n\n\"The House on Mango Street\" is considered a modern classic of Chicano literature and has been the subject of numerous academic publications in Chicano Studies and feminist theory. The book has sold more than 6 million copies, has been translated into over 20 languages and is required reading in many schools, and universities across the United States.\n\nIt was on The New York Times Best Seller list and is the recipient of several major literary awards, including the American Book Award from the Before Columbus Foundation. It was adapted into a stage play by Tanya Saracho, which was staged in Chicago in 2009.\n\nBecause the novel deals with a sensitive subject matter, such as domestic violence, puberty, sexual harassment, and racism, it has faced challenges and threats of censorship. Yet it remains an influential coming-of-age novel and is a staple piece of literature for many young adults.\n\nCisneros has discussed the relationship between her own personal experiences and Esperanza's life as depicted in \"The House on Mango Street\". Like her protagonist, Esperanza, Cisneros is Mexican-American and was born and raised in a Hispanic neighborhood in Chicago. Yet there are differences, for instance in that whereas Esperanza has two brothers and a sister, Cisneros was \"the only daughter in a family of seven children\". Earlier, Cisneros suggested that as the only girl in a family of boys, she often felt isolated. Cisneros attributes \"her impulse to create stories\" to \"the loneliness of those formative years\".\n\nWhile completing an MFA in Creative Writing at the Iowa Writers Workshop, Cisneros first discovered a sense of her own ethnic \"otherness\", and at this time she felt marginalized \"as a person of color, as a woman, as a person from working-class background\". In an interview, Cisneros stated that during her graduate studies, when she began writing \"The House on Mango Street\", she found the academic atmosphere highly discouraging. She remembered finding her classmates' backgrounds very different than her own and realized she had little in common with them: \"I was so angry, so intimidated by my classmates that I wanted to quit. But ... I found a way to write … in reaction to being there I started to have some Mango Street almost as a way of claiming this is who I am. It became my flag\". Cisneros created Esperanza from these personal feelings of displacement.\n\n\"The House on Mango Street\" covers a year in the life of Esperanza Cordero, a young Chicana girl living in an impoverished Chicago neighborhood with her parents and three siblings. The book opens with Esperanza, the narrator, explaining how her family first arrived on Mango Street. Before the family settled in their new home, a small and run-down building with crumbling red bricks, they moved frequently. The family has been wandering from place to place, always dreaming of the promised land of a house of their own. When they finally arrive at the house on Mango Street, which is, at last, their own house, it is not the promised land of their dreams. The parents overcome their dejection by saying that this is not the end of their moving, that it is only a temporary stop before going on to the promised house. While the house on Mango Street was a significant improvement from her family's previous dwellings, Esperanza expresses disdain towards her new home because it is not a \"real\" house, like the ones she has seen on TV. Esperanza constantly daydreams of a white, wooden house, with a big yard and lots of trees. She finds her life on Mango Street suffocating and frequently expresses her desire to escape. She begins to write poetry to express these feelings. Esperanza's perceptive nature shines through as she begins the novel with detailed descriptions of the minute behaviors and characteristics of her family members and unusual neighbors. Her descriptions provide a picture of the neighborhood and offer examples of the many influential people surrounding her. She describes time spent with her younger sister, Nenny, such as when they paraded around the neighborhood in high heels one day with their friends Rachel and Lucy. She also befriends two older girls in the neighborhood: Alicia, a promising young college student with a dead mother, and Marin, who spends her days babysitting her younger cousins. Esperanza highlights significant or telling moments both in her life and in the lives of those in her community. She mostly focuses on moments that show the difficulties that they experience, such as when Louie's cousin was arrested for stealing a car or when Esperanza's Aunt Lupe dies.\n\nAs the vignettes progress, the novel depicts Esperanza's budding maturity and developing her own perspective of the world around her. As Esperanza eventually enters puberty, she develops sexually, physically, and emotionally. With these changes, Esperanza begins to notice and enjoy male attention. She quickly befriends Sally, an attractive girl who wears heavy makeup and dresses provocatively. Sally's father, a deeply religious and physically abusive man, prevents her from leaving their home. Sally's and Esperanza's friendship is compromised when Sally ditches Esperanza for a boy at a carnival and Esperanza is sexually assaulted by a group of men. Esperanza recounts other instances of assault she experiences, like when an older man forcibly kissed her on the lips at her first job. Esperanza's traumatic experiences and observations of the women in her neighborhood, many of whom are constantly controlled by the men in their lives, only further cement her desire to escape Mango Street. It is only when Esperanza meets Rachel and Lucy's aunts, the Three Sisters, and they tell her fortune, that she realizes that her experiences on Mango Street have shaped her identity and that it will always be with her, even if she leaves. As the novel ends, Esperanza vows that after she leaves, she will return to help the people she has left behind.\n\nThe novel is composed of forty-four interconnected vignettes, of varying lengths, ranging from one or two paragraphs to several pages. The protagonist, Esperanza, narrates these vignettes in first-person present tense.\n\nIn the afterword for the 25th-anniversary publication of \"The House on Mango Street\", Cisneros commented on the style she developed for writing it: \"She experiments, creating a text that is as succinct and flexible as poetry, snapping sentences into fragments so that the reader pauses, making each sentence serve her and not the other way round, abandoning quotation marks to streamline the typography and make the page as simple and readable as possible.\" Cisneros wanted the text to be easily read by people like those she remembered from her youth, particularly people who spent all day working with little time to devote to reading. In her words: \"I wanted something that was accessible to ... someone who comes home with their feet hurting like my father.\" \n\nIn 2009, Cisneros wrote a new introduction to the novel. Here she includes a few remarks on the process of writing the book. She had first come up with a title \"The House on Mango Street\"; under it she included several stories, poems, vignettes, that she had already written or was in the process of writing, she adds that she does not consider the book a novel but as a \"jar of buttons,\" a group of mismatched stories. These stories were written over different periods of time, the first three were written in Iowa as a side project, for at the time Cisneros was studying for a MFA. When orchestrating this book, Cisneros wants it to be \"a book that can be opened at any page and will still make sense to the reader who doesn't know what came before or comes after.\" She says the people she wrote about were real, amalgamations of persons she met over the years, she tailored together events of the past and the present so that the story being told could have a beginning a middle and an end, and that all the emotions felt are hers.\n\nEsperanza - \"The House on Mango Street\" is written through the eyes of Esperanza Cordero, who is an adolescent girl living in a working-class Latino neighbourhood in Chicago. Esperanza is intrigued by the idea of being a Mexican American woman in Chicago, which reflects the author herself just 15 years prior to publishing this book. We follow this young woman coming into her sexual maturity and observe her undying struggle to make new possibilities for herself. The reader also encounters Esperanza living between two cultures, the Mexican one which she encounters through her parents and the American culture in which she finds herself living. Throughout the book, we see Esperanza reject her Chicana community as a means to forge and establish her own identity.\n\nAs her name suggests, Esperanza is a \"figure of hope, a 'fierce woman' on a complex pursuit for personal and community transformation.\". Esperanza uses her house in Chicago, to question her society and the cultural customs that weigh on her due to her identity as a young Chicana woman. She observes the women of her community to find a role model of her own, and she looks at both their negative and positive aspects and uses what she has learnt from her observations to form an identity for herself.\n\nNenny - She is Esperanza’s youngest sister, the protagonist mentions that they are both very different from one another. She is described as having slippery hair.\n\nRachel and Lucy – They are sisters, around the same age as Esperanza and Nenny, from Texas but now living on Mango street. They buy an old bike together and share it between them. They are described as having “fat popsicle lips” like the rest of their family. They all share a moment in the book where they are trying out high heels together. Until a man tries to convince Rachel to give him a kiss, that is when they give up “being beautiful.”\n\nSally - She is one of Esperanza’s closest friends and mentioned in several of the vignettes in the novel. There is one full vignette dedicated to this character. The author describes her as “the girl with eyes like Egypt and nylons the color of smoke.” This is the first phrase in the chapter, and it seems to embody the type of dreams Sally holds for herself. The protagonist is attracted to Sally’s way of being and considers her to be a true friend, she likes being around her.\n\nSally seems to represent the vicious cycle of domestic violence and repression felt by women on Mango street. She is utterly desperate to find a man to marry her, to escape the beatings and maltreatment she gets from her father at home. This ‘vicious cycle’ is seen when Esperanza goes and tells Sally’s mother that her daughter is in a garden with three boys and the mother completely disregards this, her mother doesn’t seem surprised or worried. Her mother cares for her cuts and bruises allowing for the violence to perpetuate, both mother and daughter give excuses to the father. The bare fact that Sally marries at such a young age to a man that ends up treating her just like her father, shows how this cycle is so ingrained in the way of life of many women, and passed from generation to generation. The author pities this character, not blaming her for what happened to her, Sally was very young and immature to fully understand her surroundings, to find a way out.\n\nMarin– She is the cousin of a Louie’s family, neighbors of Esperanza’s family, she has come to stay from Puerto Rico. She is older than Esperanza, she wears dark nylons and a lot of makeup. She has a boyfriend back in Puerto Rico, and shows off her mementos from him to the younger girls saying how he promised they would get married soon. Esperanza looks up to her, as a figure of wisdom, of knowing many things. Marin imparted a lot of advice to the younger girls. She wore shorter skirts and had pretty eyes, received a lot of attention, yet the protagonist will always remember her as someone who was always waiting for something to change, something that never came. This character represents many of the young women in the neighborhood.\n\nEsperanza's Mother – Esperanza’s mother. One of the first descriptions is that she has hair like little rosettes, like little candy circles all curly from the pins she uses for her hair. Her mother’s smell made her feel safe, her mother is her pillar, wanting the best for Esperanza. The vignette “A Smart Cookie” is dedicated to her mother. Her mother can speak two languages, can sign opera, reads, writes, she is handy around the house, she could’ve been anything she wanted, yet she regrets not having gone anywhere and dropped out of school. Her mother expressed disgusted that she dropped out of school for now having nice clothes. Several times throughout the book she encourages Esperanza to keep studying. Esperanza's mother is described as obedient with an undemanding nature.\n\nAlicia - Alicia is a young woman who lives in Esperanza's neighbourhood. She attends university and has a father who is thought to molest her and leave her to do all the chores. Alicia is also faced with many challenges, as women attending college at that time, especially lower-income Latina girls, was very uncommon, and the community judged her for that. Nonetheless, Alicia is thought to be a role model for Esperanza. Alicia's attendance at university allows her to escape their community and see the outside world. Returning to the neighbourhood from school, Alicia seems to have developed a disrespect for the cultural community of Mango Street and Esperanza notices that she is \"stuck-up\". Throughout the novel, Esperanza wishes to learn from Alicia. Ultimately, Alicia wants to be a true American and for the community to solely be part of her past.\n\nAlicia is an inspiration to Esperanza and listens to Esperanza's sadness when she has no one else to talk to. Esperanza learns a lot from Alicia and her lifestyle, realizing that Alicia does not \"want to spend her whole life in a factory or behind a rolling pin\" and instead pursues university and studies hard. Alicia plays a big role in understanding Esperanza's identity and its relationship to Mango Street. She confirms the intimacy between the two by stating \"Like it or not you [Esperanza] are Mango Street.\"\n\nAunt Lupe - Aunt Lupe is primarily present in the vignette \"Born Bad,\" in which Esperanza scolds herself for mimicking her dying aunt. Aunt Lupe is thought to \"represent the passivity that women are so revered for in Mexican culture, that passivity which makes women accepting of whatever it is their patriarchal society chooses for them.\" Aunt Lupe married, had kids and was a dutiful house wife. However, she suffered crippling illness that left her bedridden. Esperanza describes how her aunt went blind and her \"bones gone limp as worms\" She is thought to be representative of la Virgen de Guadalupe, as her proper name is Guadalupe. Aunt Lupe also encourages Esperanza to pursue writing, as she tells Esperanza that \"writing would keep her free.\" Aunt Lupe eventually dies from her illness.\n\nCritics have noted that Esperanza's desire to break free from her neighborhood is not limited to a desire to escape poverty but also to escape strict gender roles she finds oppressive within her culture. Esperanza's discovery of her own feminist values, which contradict the domestic roles prescribed for Chicana women, are a crucial part of her character development throughout the novel. In keeping with this idea, Cisneros dedicates the novel \"a las mujeres,\" or, \"to the women.\"\n\nEsperanza struggles against the traditional gender roles within her own culture and the limitations that her culture imposes upon women. Scholar Jean Wyatt writes, quoting Gloria Anzaldúa, that \"Mexican social myths of gender crystallize with special force in three icons: 'Guadalupe, the virgin mother who has not abandoned us, la Chingada (Malinche), the raped mother whom we have abandoned, and La Llorona, the mother who seeks her lost children.' According to the evidence of Chicana feminist writers, these 'three Our Mothers haunt the sexual and maternal identities of contemporary Mexican and Chicana women.'\"\n\nEvery female character within the novel is trapped by an abusive partner, teenage motherhood, or poverty, except Esperanza. Esperanza finds a way out of patriarchal oppression. The lesson Cisneros wishes to express is that there is always a way out for women who are trapped in one way or another. Critic María Elena de Valdés argues that gender plays a large part in the suppression of women; it forces them to diminish themselves to the service of others, particularly in domestic life. Through her writing, de Valdés says, Esperanza creates herself as a subject of her own story and distances herself from these gendered expectations.\n\nIn an article focused on the role of high heels in the text, Lilijana Burcar argues that Cisneros offers a \"critical dissection\" of the role that such attributes of femininity play in constructing young women's self-image. It is argued that high heels do not only constrain women's feet but also constrain their role in society. Esperanza and her friends are given high heels to wear as part of an unofficial rite of initiation into their community, and society. We see this in the vignette entitled \"The Family of Little Feet,\" which tells of a mother who introduces her daughters to high heels, leaving the girls with an initial glee, as if they were Cinderella. Yet this is also described as a horrifying experience for one of the girls, for she feels like she is no longer herself, that her foot is no longer her foot, as the shoe almost dissociates the woman from her body. And yet, as Burcar observes, \"presented with a lesson on what it means to be a grown-up woman in American contemporary patriarchal society, the girls decide to cast away their high-heeled shoes.\" \n\nBurcar expresses Esperanza Cordero’s life as one of being the “antidote” to the predestined lives lived by the other female characters. Women that have dreams but due to their circumstances and the vicious cycle of domestication forces of a patriarchal society they are confined to the same destiny of the women that came before them. A destiny that is centered in being a full-time wife, mother, in the home. Esperanza, as a character, is formed outside of those gender norms, she is presented as the only one that rebels. Choosing to set this mainly in the years of prepubescence is important for those are the years where young women are taught to become socially acceptable, they are introduced to high heels, specific forms of behaviors, etc., and like this, at a very young age, they are molded into something that fits with the rules of the community where they are to become completely dependent on a man. This is the case for Esperanza’s mother, who is uncommonly knowledgeable for the demographics of women on Mango Street, yet doesn’t know how to use the subway. Here, Burcar notes that \"the traditional female bildungsroman has played a direct role in endorsing and upholding the cult of domesticity for women and the image of a woman as the angel in the house.” The author goes on to argue that capitalism plays a direct role in the perpetuation of the roles of women in society, as it is founded on the domestication of women where men can work and fulfill the role of “breadwinner.”\n\nThere is economic dependency on women remaining in the home, and with these foundations that Esperanza begins with her \"own quiet war. [. . .] [where she] leaves the table like a man, without putting back the chair or picking up the plate\" versus being the servant, the woman, who puts back the chair and picks up the plate. Burcar argues that the novel ends on a note where it blames a patriarchal system for the entrapment of Mexican-American women in the home. For Esperanza, joining mainstream America (having a \"house of [her] own\") will allow her freedom as a woman. However, Burcar contends that this emancipation comes at the expense of the sacrifice of other women, women that came before her, particularly her mother.\n\nEpisodes of patriarchal and sexual violence are prevalent in demonstrating women's issues in the Chicano community in \"The House on Mango Street\". McCracken argues that \"we see a woman whose husband locks her in the house, a daughter brutally beaten by her father, and Esperanza's own sexual initiation through rape.\" As McCracken notes, many of the men portrayed in the stories \"control or appropriate female sexuality by adopting one or another form of violence as if it were their innate right.\" The many stories of Esperanza's friend Sally is an example of this patriarchal violence, as mentioned by McCracken. Sally is forced into a life of hiding in her house and her father beats her. She later on escapes her father's violence through marriage where she is dependent and controlled by another man. As McCracken analyzes, \"her father's attempts to control her sexuality cause Sally to exchange one repressive patriarchal prison for another.\" \"The House on Mango Street\" offers a glimpse of Esperanza's violent sexual initiation and also portrays the oppression and domestic abuse faced by other Chicana women. Together with Esperanza's experience of sexual abuse the \"other instances of male violence in the collection-Rafaela's imprisonment, Sally's beatings, and the details of Minerva's life another young married woman whose husband beats her and throws a rock through the window-these episodes form a continuum in which sex, patriarchal power, and violence are linked.\"\n\nThe theme of adolescence is dominant throughout the book. The actual timeline of the story is never specified, however, it appears to chronicle a couple of crucial years of Esperanza Cordero's life in her Chicano neighbourhood. We see her transition from a naive child into a young adolescent woman who acquires a graphic understanding of the \"sexual inequality, violence, and socioeconomic disparities.\" Esperanza is often torn between her identity as a child and her emergence into womanhood and sexuality, especially when she witnesses her friend, Sally, enter into the Monkey Garden to kiss boys. At this moment, she looked at her \"feet in their white socks and ugly round shoes. They seemed far away. They didn't seem to be my feet anymore. And the garden that had been such a good place to play didn't seem mine either.\"\n\nWith coming of age, the young women in the novel begin to explore their boundaries and indulge in risky behaviours. When Esperanza, Nenny, Lucy, and Rachel are given high-heeled shoes, they experiment with walking like a woman. They often observe older women with a mix of wonder and fear for their futures. The attention men give them is unwanted by Esperanza, but her friends feel a bit more conflicted because attention from the opposite sex is representative of their self-worth. Esperanza is different than her friends; she wants to break free and live life by her own rules.\n\nMaría Elena de Valdés argues that Esperanza's \"search for self-esteem and her true identity is the subtle, yet powerful, narrative thread that unites the text.\" The aesthetic struggle that occurs in this piece takes place in Mango Street. This location, this world, becomes involved in the inner turmoil felt by the character. The main character uses this world as a mirror to look deeply into herself as, in de Valdés's words, she \"comes to embody the primal needs of all human beings: freedom and belonging.\" Here the character is seen trying to unite herself with the notions she has of the world around her, Mango Street.\n\nThe relationship the protagonist has with the house itself is a pillar in this process of self-discovery, the house is in itself a living being as well, as mentioned by de Valdés. Her neighborhood engenders the battles of fear and hostility, of dualistic forces, of the notion of \"I\" versus \"them\". The character is impressed upon by these forces and they guide her growth as a person.\n\nThe House itself plays a very important part, especially in how the narrator reacts to it. She is fully aware that she does not belong there, everything about it is described in negative terms delineating everything that it isn't versus what it is. It's by knowing where she doesn't fit that she knows to where she might fit. It is similar to the concept of light and dark. We know that darkness is the absence of light, in this case her identity exists outside of this house on mango street.\n\nEsperanza Cordero is an impoverished child and wishes to find a sense of belonging outside of her own neighbourhood as she feels \"this isn't my house I say and shake my head as if shaking could undo the year I've lived here. I don't belong. I don't ever want to come from here.\" Esperanza attempts to find such belonging in the outside world as she perceives this as a safe place that would accept her. She eminants this desire to belong through little things, such as favouring English over the Spanish typically used in her community or actively desiring the purchase of a house outside of Mango Street. In other words, Esperanza's sense of belonging is absolutely dependent on separating herself from her Spanish native tongue, community and ultimately away from Mango Street.\n\nMarin is another character who is thought to lack belonging. Marin \"is waiting for a car to stop, a start to fall, someone to change her life\" and although she is supposed to leave Mango Street, the possibility is unlikely as she lacks the money and independence to leave. Esperanza sees Marin as an individual who is only capable of longing, but not able to really belong as her dreams and desires are romanticized and unrealistic.\n\nEsperanza uses the occasional Spanish word, and as Regina Betz observes, \"Spanglish frequents the\npages where Esperanza quotes other characters\" but \"English is the primary language is Cisneros' novel.\" This is a sign, Betz continues, that her identity is \"torn\" between \"her English tongue [. . .] and her Spanish roots.\" Betz argues that \"Both author and character claim themselves as English in order to flourish as writers and independent women.\"\n\nFurthmore, it is thought that the language barriers present in \"The House on Mango Street\" is a symbol of the boundary between one's self and the freedom and opportunities that are present in the rest of America. In addition, there is a certain value that is attributed to bilingualism in this book, while Spanish speakers are scoffed at and pitied.\n\n\"The House on Mango Street\" is an example of Chicano literature and explores the complexities of its culture. Through Esperanza Cordero, the heroine of this novel, Sandra Cisneros demonstrates that the \"patriarchal Chicana Chicago community that raised her will not permit her development as a female writer\". Through this book, she addresses the oppression that many women feel when growing up in Chicano communities, such as Mango Street.\n\n\"The House on Mango Street\", Cisneros' second major publication, was released to critical acclaim, particularly earning praise from the Hispanic community for its realistic portrayals of the Hispanic experience in the United States. Bebe Moore Campbell of \"The New York Times Book Review\" wrote: \"Cisneros draws on her rich [Latino] heritage . . . and seduces with precise, spare prose, creat[ing] unforgettable characters we want to lift off the page. She is not only a gifted writer, but an absolutely essential one.\" The book won Cisneros the American Book Award from the Before Columbus Foundation (1985) and is now required reading in many school curriculums across the United States. \n\nDespite its high praise in the realm of Latino literature, \"The House on Mango Street\" has also received criticism for its sensitive subject matter and has been banned from several school curriculums. The American Library Association has listed the book as a \"Frequently Challenged Book with Diverse Content\". For example, in 2012 the St. Helens school board in Oregon removed the book from its middle-school curriculum, expressing \"concerns for the social issues presented.\" In response, Katie Van Winkle, a former student at St. Helens, launched a letter-writing campaign on Facebook. Her efforts to \"save Mango Street\" were successful and the St. Helens school board voted to keep \"The House on Mango Street\" in its curriculum.\n\n\"The House on Mango Street\" was also one of the 80-plus books that were part of the Tucson Unified School District's K-12 Mexican-American studies curriculum before the program was dismantled under Arizona House Bill 2281. This law \"forbids classes to advocate the overthrow of the United States, promote racial resentment, or emphasize students' ethnicity rather than their individuality.\" When the Mexican-American Studies program was ended, all the books that were associated with it, including \"The House on Mango Street\", were removed from the school's curriculum.\nIn response, teachers, authors, and activists formed a caravan in the spring of 2012. The caravan, called the Librotraficante Project, originated at the Alamo and ended in Tucson. Its participants organized workshops and distributed books that had been removed from the curriculum. Cisneros herself traveled with the caravan, reading \"The House on Mango Street\" and running workshops about Chicano literature. She brought numerous copies of the book with her, distributed them, and discussed thematic implications of her novel as well as talked about the book's autobiographical elements.\n\n\"The House on Mango Street\" has sold well over 6 million copies and has been translated into over 20 languages. For its 25th anniversary in 2008, \"Mango Street\" was reissued in a special Anniversary edition. \n\n\nAn Introduction was included in the novel in 2009, it can be found in the 25th anniversary edition of the book .\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1942884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942884", "title": "Beta-ketothiolase deficiency", "text": "Beta-ketothiolase deficiency\n\nBeta-ketothiolase deficiency is a rare, autosomal recessive metabolic disorder in which the body cannot properly process the amino acid isoleucine or the products of lipid breakdown.\n\nThe typical age of onset for this disorder is between 6 months and 24 months.\n\nThe signs and symptoms of beta-ketothiolase deficiency include vomiting, dehydration, trouble breathing, extreme tiredness, and occasionally convulsions. These episodes are called ketoacidotic attacks and can sometimes lead to coma. Attacks occur when compounds called organic acids (which are formed as products of amino acid and fat breakdown) build up to toxic levels in the blood. These attacks are often triggered by an infection, fasting (not eating), or in some cases, other types of stress.\n\nThis condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern and is extremely rare having only been reported in 50 to 60 individuals throughout the world.\n\nMutations in the \"ACAT1\" gene cause beta-ketothiolase deficiency. The enzyme made by the \"ACAT1\" gene plays an essential role in breaking down proteins and fats in the diet. Specifically, the enzyme is responsible for processing isoleucine, an amino acid that is part of many proteins. This enzyme also processes ketones, which are produced during the breakdown of fats. If a mutation in the \"ACAT1\" gene reduces or eliminates the activity of this enzyme, the body is unable to process isoleucine and ketones properly. As a result, harmful compounds can build up and cause the blood to become too acidic (ketoacidosis), which impairs tissue function, especially in the central nervous system.\n\n\"This article incorporates public domain text from The U.S. National Library of Medicine\"\n"}
{"id": "1942885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942885", "title": "Madadayo", "text": "Madadayo\n\nThe main story of the film is based on the life of a Japanese academic and author Hyakken Uchida (1889–1971). The film opens with him resigning as professor of German, in the period immediately before the Second World War. The plot is centered on his relationship with his former students, who care for him in his old age.\n\n\n\"Madadayo\" was distributed theatrically in Japan by Toho on 17 April 1993. The film was exhibited at various American film festivals beginning on March 20, 1998. It did not initially receive a wide theatrical release and was released directly to television by WinStar Cinema and first broadcast on Turner Classic Movies in September 1999. It was reissued theatrically in September 1, 2000.\n\nEnglish-subtitled DVDs have been released by Winstar and the Criterion Collection in the U.S., Madman in Australia, Yume Pictures in the UK, and Mei Ah in Hong Kong. A Blu-ray edition, without English subtitles, is available in Japan as part of a box set with \"Rashomon\", \"Ran\", and \"The Quiet Duel\".\n\nIn Japan, the film won the awards for Best Art Direction, Best Cinematography, Best Lighting at the Japanese Academy Awards. All these awards were given to their respective crews for their work on both \"Madadayo\" and \"Rainbow Bridge\".\n\n\"Madadayo\" received generally positive reviews from critics, maintaining an 87% approval rating on Rotten Tomatoes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1942887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942887", "title": "Yaka people", "text": "Yaka people\n\nThe Yaka are an African ethnic group found in southwestern Democratic Republic of the Congo, with Angola border to their west. They number about 300,000 and are related to the Suku people. They live in the forest and savanna region between the Kwango River and the Wamba River. .\n\nTheir oral tradition states that they migrated northwest into their current location from the Lunda plateau region, in the 16th century. The verb kuyaka (The noun \"bayaka\" derives kongo to catch flying objects). The Bayaka were those Kongo people said: \"Bawu, bayaka mbele; bayaka mpunza \"(Translation: They catch the cutlasses (that the enemies throw at them), they catch the arrows flying). A term used initially to describe them.\n\nThe colonial Portuguese called them \"Jagas\", and their name may be derived from the Kikongo verb \"yaka\" which means \"grab, take, hold\" referring to the invaders of the kingdom of Kongo. In the 17th century and onwards, the Portuguese used the word \"Jagas\" (English: Yakas) to refer to any rootless and vagabond peoples, even if peaceful, in their colonies.\n\nKing Kasongo led the exodus of the Lunda westward around the 17th century, the most organized expedition towards the conquest of the Kwango region in the kingdom of Kongo. Some Lunda had already preceded this. These Lunda conquerors were endowed with three major qualities: diplomacy, sociability and The organization, which enabled them to found the Yaka kingdom in the seventeenth century, harmoniously integrating the pre-established Kongo nations. The Lunda used this \"soft power\", more than fighting, to favour the union of the two peoples, Lunda and Kongo, under the kingdom Yaka. Ethnologists and sociologists unanimously agree that, throughout Belgian colonial history, this kingdom was one of the best organized and Especially the most resistant to Western penetration.\n\nThe name Yaka is a title that the Kongo gave to their warriors. Upon the arrival of Lunda, the kingdom of Kongo was already weakened by Portuguese incursions. Thus, the resistance that the Lunda find in the Kwango region is that of the isolated local tribes Kongo, including the Mbala, Tsamba, Hungana, Pindi, Ngongo, rather than that of a United Kongo kingdom. The Lunda, these \"biluwa\", or foreigners, which Nothing resisted on their passage, capable of catching bullets and arrows, were also called \"Iluwa\" (foreigners) or Bayaka (Catchers of the balls and the arrows). Both the Lunda that arrived and the kongo warriors had similar traits, hence the exact titles being given to them.\n\nThe Lunda, who had an interest in integrating into their political organization the local tribes who had not fled the invasion or who did not want to fight, had in turn adopted the identity \"Yaka\" which, in addition to conferring on them a title of nobility of the \"invincible\", integrated them better In their new country.\n\nThey had also gradually adopted the Kongo language (hence the Kiyaka language being spoken amongst them, an offshoot of Kikongo). Much more, Lunda chiefs married Kongo women. The offspring identified themselves as Yaka rather than Lunda. Thus, the Yaka appellation had established itself as a generic identity Of the Lunda and Kongo inhabiting territories area under the authority of the Kiamvu Kasongo-Lunda, namely the territories of Kasongo-Lunda, Kenge and Popokabaka.\n\nThe Lunda of Nzofu later came in the territory of Kahemba retain the Lunda identity and language. As for the territory of Feshi, they emigrated there in the middle of the 18th century from the Basuku, a group of Kongo, who disassociated themselves from the power of Kiamvu Kasongo-Lunda and whose leader \"Meni Kongo\" refused to submit to the authority of the latter. Some other Kongo groups: the Mbala, Tsamba, Hungana, Pindi and Ngongo, etc. Had already emigrated to the Kwilu, leaving behind them, brothers and sisters who, together with the Lunda, composed the Yaka kingdom. The five territories that make up Kwango are therefore a binational space, Kongo and Lunda.\n\nThe reconciliation is thus the end of the wars of conquest between Kongo ethnic groups and the Lunda in Kwango was sealed by a ceremony and a particular ceremony in which the chief Meni Kongo representing Of the original Tsamba clans of Feshi and the Lunda chiefs were to share the parrot, dog and cat raw meat. At the end of this ceremony, the representatives of two nations buried their war weapons and promised peaceful coexistence forever. The Kongo and the Lunda of Kwango have lived in perfect harmony since the beginning of the 19th century.\n\nWhen the administration of Leopold II arrived in Kwango after their establishment in Bas-Congo, Kwango Was an organized kingdom; The power of Kiamvu Kasongo-Lunda was legitimized and respected by all the peoples, Kongo and Lunda. It was also well represented on the whole kingdom that stretched from Kasongo-Lunda to Popokabaka through the present territory of Kenge. Peace between the Bayaka (Kongo and Lunda under the power of the Kiamvu Kasongo-Lunda), their brothers, the Basuku of Meni Kongo in the Feshi and the Lunda of Nzofu in Kahemba.\n\nIt was therefore not by default of hospitality that the agents of the Belgian administration came up against a refusal in Kwango. They represented a power that could not coexist easily with the existing political power.\n\nAccording to Crawford Young, the Lunda empires in Kwango and Katanga had understood that colonial occupation was an aggression to repel and fight. The other groups, apart from a few scattered revolts including that of Bapendé, had behaved as if the exploration and occupation of their spaces by strangers were normal. (C. Young, 1965: 295-6).\n\nBy the year 1890, a skilled administrator named Dhanis came to negotiate his acceptance with King \"Kiamvu\" Tsiimba Nkumbi. It was not even with his replacement of the name of Dussart who sought to impose the Leopold administration on Kwango even by force\". It was then that in 1892 and 1893 there were two wars ranked between the two armies, that of the Kiamvu Tsiimba Nkumbi and that of the Leopoldian administration in which there were considerable losses on both sides. If the principal Belgian agent perished in the first war of 1892, the one which followed in 1893 with a greater reinforcement of soldiers of the public force saw the assassination of the Kiamvu Tsiimba Nkumbi.\" It was also the beginning of the destabilization of the kings, but not that of the kingdom or the resistance. In fact, the kings who were enthroned after this revolting event showed themselves more intransigent with respect to submission to the power of whites. Thus, faced with repression, they had the choice either to go into exile with their brothers, the Lunda of Angola, or to undergo forced relegation to Banningville or elsewhere. Mulombo kings Désiré Nkulu and Chief Munene Nkenzi were deported respectively, while the Kiamvu Muana Koko Kodia Puanga found refuge in Angola in 1915. After the two bloody wars of 1892 and 1893, when the Kwango was militarily armed, the resistance assumed passive form. This took many forms, ranging from the subtle violence by leopard men \"Masiona\" to civil disobedience and the refusal to serve any power of oppression, to participate in any enterprise or to obey any colonial injunction. It was this passive resistance that continued throughout the colonial era until independence. When in 1908, Leopold II ceded the Congo to Belgium, the colonial administration, to whom the narrative of the resistance Yaka had already been made, tried to occupy the Kwango by force, but she stumbled upon the civil resistance whose main manifestation was the refusal of cooperation with the colonial agents. Even after the assassination in 1893 of the Kiamvu Tsiimba Nkumbi, under which open resistance was waged, the Bayaka continued civic resistance. Because of the unfortunate incidents of the conflict, and after 2 years of colonial military siege, the colonial mission in Kwango was abandoned. By way of punishment and fear\n\nThat the Kwango hindered the colonial work and wished to overthrows the sovereignty of the Congo, in the hands of the colonial administration, which in turn forced to administration to put the Kwango on hold; Which meant that no development project could be undertaken. This did not prevent the Bayaka associating themselves with nationalists message of Lumumba, due to their strong presence in Kinshasa, only a century later, they heavily precipitate in the movement of independence, especially as the party that brought them together \"LUKA \"(The Kwangolese Union for Freedom and Independence) which had as its main objective the independence. The Bayaka, by their strong mobilization in Kinshasa, contributed strongly to the events that precipitated the independence of the Congo in 1959 - 1960.\n\nIf the Bayaka have a history so glorious, where is the disparagement they are subjected to? The denigration of the Bayaka was originally the work of the colonial agents. The latter, after having abandoned the Kwango, were to create the division to better establish their authority in neighbouring Bas-Congo and Kwilu. Afterwards, they began spreading propaganda about the Bayaka, claiming them to be \"warriors and savages\", as they did not accept western civilization. This became the means of dividing and reigning. This is how, from the machinations of colonialists, stereotypes stick to the identity of Yaka, especially in Kinshasa, the capital, where all the tribes of the Congo eventually meet. Nevertheless, as can be seen in the writings of sociologists And Belgian ethnologists, the colonial administration recognized the organization and dynamism of the Bayaka. As all slanderous statements are made away from Kwango, or whispering, the Bayaka have imperturbably pursued their traditional activities in all areas: art, craftsmanship, construction, hunting, fishing and agriculture.\n\nThe Bayaka fell victim to their exceptional resistance to colonial oppression and exploitation. Those of the Kwango, have among other things, resisted fiercely efforts of \"pacification\" of the Force Publique and Leopold II's administration.\n\nThe Yaka people are a matrilineal society that includes patrilineal lineage as family name. Their villages have chiefs, who are recognized by the Congo government as a political office.\n\nTheir Traditional Religion has the concept of \"Ndzambyaphuungu\", or a Creator God who resides in the sky, but this creator is not a part of their celebrations or rituals. The religious practices and ceremonies are instead directed towards the \"Bambuta\" or the spirits of the ancestors, and these are also part of healing dances during illnesses.\nThe Yaka farm cassava, sweet potatoes, and corn as staple source of food, and supplement this with fish and game meat. They have traditionally hunted with the help of hunting dogs. In contemporary times, they are also migrant workers in urban areas.\n\nThe Yaka are notable for their arts and handicrafts. They make statues, portraits, baskets, carved objects, masks, tools for cooking, building, hunting, fishing or entertaining with additions of instruments such as drums. Their masks are bulky, distinctive with upturned noses and eyes shaped in the form of globules. These masks were frequently used in various Traditional Religion ceremonies. Their sculptures called \"Mbwoolo\" and their carved slit drum called \"Mukoku\" are regionally famous and used in ritual dances.\n\n"}
{"id": "1942888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942888", "title": "Basilian monks", "text": "Basilian monks\n\nBasilian monks are those Catholic monks who follow the rule of Basil the Great, bishop of Caesarea (330–379). The term \"Basilian\" is typically only used in the Catholic Church to distinguish Greek Catholic monks from other forms of monastic life in the Catholic Church. In the Eastern Orthodox Church, as all monks follow the Rule of Saint Basil, they do not distinguish themselves as \"Basilian\".\n\nThe monastic rules and institutes of Basil are important because their reconstruction of monastic life remains the basis for most Eastern Orthodox and some Greek Catholic monasticism. Benedict of Nursia, who fulfilled much the same function in the West, took his \"Regula Benedicti\" from the writings of Basil and other earlier church fathers.\n\nUnder the name of Basilians are included all the religious that follow the Rule of St. Basil. The \"Rule\" is not intended to be a constitution like various Western monastic Rules; rather, it is a collection of his responses to questions about the ascetic life—hence the more accurate original name: \"Asketikon\". \n\nAttribution of the Rule and other ascetical writings that go under his name to Basil has been questioned. But the tendency is to recognize as his at any rate the two sets of Rules, the \"Greater Asketikon\" and the \"Lesser Asketicon\". Probably the truest idea of his monastic system may be derived from a correspondence between him and Gregory Nazianzen at the beginning of his monastic life. \n\nSt. Basil drew up his \"Asketikon\" for the members of the monastery he founded about 356 on the banks of the Iris River in Cappadocia. Before forming this community St. Basil visited Egypt, Coele-Syria, Mesopotamia, and Palestine in order to see for himself the manner of life led by the monks in these countries. In the latter country and in Syria the monastic life tended to become more and more eremitical and to run to great extravagances in the matter of bodily austerities. When Basil formed his monastery in the neighborhood of Neocaesarea in Pontus, he deliberately set himself against these tendencies. He declared that the cenobitical life is superior to the eremitical; that fasting and austerities should not interfere with prayer or work; that work should form an integral part of the monastic life, not merely as an occupation, but for its own sake and in order to do good to others; and therefore that monasteries should be near towns. Gregory of Nazianzus, who shared the retreat, aided Basil by his advice and experience. All this was a new departure in monachism.\n\nIn his Rule, Basil follows a catechetical method; the disciple asks a question to which the master replies. As he visited early ascetic communities, the members would have questions. His responses were written down and formed the \"Small Asketikon\", published in 366.\n\nHe limits himself to laying down indisputable principles which will guide the superiors and monks in their conduct. He sends his monks to the Sacred Scriptures; in his eyes the Bible is the basis of all monastic legislation, the true Rule. The questions refer generally to the virtues which the monks should practice and the vices they should avoid. The greater number of the replies contain a verse or several verses of the Bible accompanied by a comment which defines the meaning. The most striking qualities of the Basilian Rule are its prudence and its wisdom. It leaves to the superiors the care of settling the many details of local, individual, and daily life; it does not determine the material exercise of the observance or the administrative regulations of the monastery. Poverty, obedience, renunciation, and self-abnegation are the virtues which St. Basil makes the foundation of the monastic life.\n\nThe Rule of Basil is divided into two parts: the \"Greater Monastic Rules\" and the \"Lesser Rules\". In 397, Rufinus who translated them into Latin united the two into a single Rule under the name of \"Regulae sancti Basilii episcopi Cappadociae ad monachos\". Basil's influence ensured the propagation of Basilian monachism; and Sozomen says that in Cappadocia and the neighboring provinces there were no hermits but only cenobites. This Rule was followed by some Western monasteries, and was a major source for the Rule of St. Benedict.\n\nThe monasteries of Cappadocia were the first to accept the Rule of St. Basil; it afterwards spread gradually to most of the monasteries of the East. Those of Armenia, Chaldea, and of the Syrian countries in general preferred instead those observances which were known among them as the Rule of St. Anthony. Protected by the emperors and patriarchs the monasteries increased rapidly in number. The monks took an active part in the ecclesiastical life of their time. Their monasteries were places of refuge for studious men. Many of the bishops and patriarchs were chosen from their ranks. They gave to the preaching of the Gospel its greatest apostles. The position of the monks in the empire was one of great power, and their wealth helped to increase their influence. Thus their development ran a course parallel to that of their Western brethren. \n\nThe monks, as a rule, followed the theological vicissitudes of the emperors and patriarchs, and they showed no notable independence except during the iconoclastic persecution; the stand they took in this aroused the anger of the imperial controversialists. The Faith had its martyrs among them; many of them were condemned to exile, and some took advantage of this condemnation to reorganize their religious life in Italy.\n\nOf all the monasteries of this period the most celebrated was that of St. John the Baptist of Studium, founded at Constantinople in the fifth century. It acquired its fame in the time of the iconoclastic persecution while it was under the government of the saintly Hegumenos (abbot) Theodore, called the Studite. In 781, Platon, a monk in the Symbola Monastery in Bithynia, and the uncle of Theodore the Studite, converted the family estate into the Sakkudion Monastery. Platon served as abbot, with Theodore as his assistant. In 794, Theodore was ordained by Tarasios of Constantinople and became abbot. Around 797 Empress Irene made Theodore leader of the ancient Stoudios Monastery in Constantinople. He set himself to reform his monastery and restore St. Basil's spirit in its primitive vigour. But to effect this, and to give permanence to the reformation, he saw that there was need of a more practical code of laws to regulate the details of the daily life, as a supplement to St Basil's Rules. He therefore drew up constitutions, afterwards codified, which became the norm of the life at the Studium monastery, and gradually spread thence to the monasteries of the rest of the Greek empire. Thus to this day the Rules of Basil and the Constitutions of Theodore the Studite, along with the canons of the Councils, constitute the chief part of Greek and Russian monastic law.\n\nThe monastery was an active center of intellectual and artistic life and a model which exercised considerable influence on monastic observances in the East. Theodore attributed the observances followed by his monks to his uncle, the saintly Abbot Plato, who first introduced them in his monastery of Sakkudion. The other monasteries, one after another adopted them, and they are still followed by the monks of Mount Athos. \n\nMonks from Athos participated at the seventh Ecumenical Council of Nicaea of 787. In 885, a decree of emperor Basil I proclaimed the Holy Mountain a place of monks, and no laymen or farmers or cattle-breeders are allowed to be settled there. The monastery of St. Catherine on Mount Sinai, built in 548, goes back to the early days of monasticism, and is still occupied by monks.\n\nFine penmanship and the copying of manuscripts were held in honor among the Basilians. Among the monasteries which excelled in the art of copying were the Studium, Mount Athos, the monastery of the Isle of Patmos and that of Rossano in Sicily; the tradition was continued later by the monastery of Grottaferrata near Rome. These monasteries, and others as well, were studios of religious art where the monks toiled to produce miniatures in the manuscripts, paintings, and goldsmith work.\n\n\nThe Byzantine monasteries furnish a long line of historians who were also monks: Georgius Syncellus, who wrote a \"Selected Chronographia\"; his friend and disciple Theophanes (d. 817), Abbot of the \"Great Field\" near Cyzicus, the author of another \"Chronographia\"; the Patriarch Nikephoros, who wrote (815–829) an historical \"Breviarium\" (a Byzantine history), and an \"Abridged Chronographia\"; George the Monk, whose Chronicle stops at A. D. 842. \n\nThere were, besides, a large number of monks, hagiographers, hymnologists, and poets who had a large share in the development of the Greek Liturgy. Among the authors of hymns may be mentioned: Romanus the Melodist; Andrew of Crete; Cosmas of Jerusalem, and Joseph the Hymnographer. \n\nFrom the beginning the Oriental Churches often took their patriarchs and bishops from the monasteries. Later, when the secular clergy was recruited largely from among married men, this custom became almost universal, for, as the episcopal office could not be conferred upon men who were married, it developed, in a way, into a privilege of the religious who had taken the vow of celibacy. Owing to this the monks formed a class apart, corresponding to the upper clergy of the Western Churches; this gave and still gives a preponderating influence to the monasteries themselves. In some of them theological instruction is given both to clerics and to laymen. In the East the convents for women adopted the Rule of St. Basil and had constitutions copied from those of the Basilian monks.\n\nSt. Cyril and St. Methodius, the Apostles of the Slavs were noted missionaries. In 1980, Pope John Paul II declared them co-patron saints of Europe, together with Benedict of Nursia.\n\nDuring the Muslim conquest, a large number of monasteries were destroyed, especially those monasteries in Anatolia and the region around Constantinople. \n\nAfter the Great Schism most Basilian monasteries became a part of the Eastern Orthodox Church, however some Basilian monasteries which were in Italy remained in communion with the Western Church.\n\nSt. Nilus the Younger was a monk and a propagator of the rule of Saint Basil in Italy. The Oratory of Saint Mark in Rossano, was founded by Nilus, as a place of retirement for nearby eremite monks It retained the Greek Rite over the Latin Rite long after the town came under Norman rule. The Rossano Gospels, is a 6th-century illuminated manuscript Gospel Book written following the reconquest of the Italian peninsula by the Byzantine Empire.\n\nIn 1004, Nilus founded the Basilian Monastery of Santa Maria, in Grottaferrata; it was completed by his disciple Bartholomew of Grottaferrata, who was also of Greek heritage. The emigration of the Greeks to the West after the fall of Constantinople gave a certain prestige to these communities. Cardinal Bessarion, who was Abbot of Grottaferrata, sought to stimulate the intellectual life of the Basilians by means of the literary treasures which their libraries contained. Other Italian monasteries of the Basilian Order were affiliated with the monastery of Grottaferrata in 1561.\n\nThe Spanish Basilians were suppressed with the other orders in 1835 and have not been re-established.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1942893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942893", "title": "Jensen Karp", "text": "Jensen Karp\n\nJensen-Gerard Karp (born November 8, 1979) is an American writer, comedian, art dealer, producer, podcast host, and former rapper raised in Calabasas, California. Previously known by his stage name Hot Karl. he engaged in rap battling and freestyle at USC, during which time he took up the Hot Karl pseudonym.\n\nKarp entered the Roll Call freestyle competition on Los Angeles radio station Power 106, where he lasted a record 45 days on air to become the show's all-time champion. Karl created a demo exhibiting his satirical style and tightly wound rhymes. He eventually signed with Interscope Records for almost a million dollars, where he recorded what was to be his debut album, \"Your Housekeeper Hates You\", which included guest appearances by Redman, Kanye West, will.i.am, DJ Quik, Fabolous, Mýa, Sugar Ray, DJ Clue, and MC Serch. However, Interscope informed Karl that his album could not be commercially released due to scheduling conflicts and he decided to leave Interscope. Jensen released his memoir, \"Kanye West Owes Me $300 (and other true stories from a white rapper who ALMOST made it big)\", detailing the entire experience in June 2016 with Crown Books.\n\nKarp was featured in the 2006 documentary \"Dropped\", which focuses on the trials and tribulations some artists have faced in the music industry.\n\nKarp's music was featured in the video game NBA Live 2003, a game in which he was also a hidden character. His song, \"Back/Forth,\" was also featured in the 2009 movie \"It's Complicated\". Karl also appeared on season 2 of \"Burning Love\" on Yahoo! Screen and E! and battled Martin Starr as part of the show. He currently manages Nova Rockafeller, a Canadian rapper on Boardwalk/Mercury records.\n\nIn 2013, Karp recorded his first song in 10 years for his favorite basketball team, the Los Angeles Clippers, at the request of the team's in-arena DJ.\n\nIn 2016, Karp recorded a song titled \"Like Riding a Bike\", featuring Mike Shinoda from Linkin Park, which is available on SoundCloud.\n\nIn October 2018, Karp joined the cast of the \"Kevin and Bean\" morning show, hosted by Kevin Ryder and Gene \"Bean\" Baxter on alternative rock station KROQ 106.7 FM in Los Angeles. He has a regular segment called \"Get Up on This\", which uses for its intro a modified version the song \"Get on Up\" by James Brown.\n\nKarp was a writer for WWE Raw for seven months during 2006.\n\nHe also appeared on Season 1 of VH1's \"Barely Famous\" playing Erin Foster's boyfriend and was seen numerous times on the final season of \"Candidly Nicole\". Karp also appeared on Comedy Central's \"@midnight\".\nKarp wrote a sketch on \"The Late Late Show with James Corden\" called \"Drop the Mic\", where Corden goes head to head battle rapping a different celebrity each installment. After episodes with Anne Hathaway, Kevin Hart, David Schwimmer, and Usain Bolt, TBS bought the concept, which aired 16 episodes starting in 2017. Karp served as executive producer and writer.\n\nKarp co-owns and operates Gallery 1988, two pop art focused galleries in Los Angeles, California both located on Melrose Avenue. He co-wrote the book \"Just Can't Get Enough\" for Abrams Books with Matthew Robinson. Gallery 1988 is well known for its Kevin Smith hosted annual show, \"Crazy 4 Cult\", where 100 artists reinterpret classic cult movies in their own style. At one time, Karp was also the brand manager and designer for Pete Wentz's Clandestine Industries. His marketing company, Tyson/Givens Design & Marketing created the LOST Underground Art Project for the show's final season and worked with the TV show \"Breaking Bad\". The gallery has also hosted exhibits for movies including \"The Avengers\", \"Rick & Morty\" and \"\".\n\nKarp hosted a podcast called \"Hype Men\" in which he, Eric Rosenthal, and Jeff Rosenthal, aka Itsthereal, discussed hip-hop. It was ran from August 2010 to July 2011.\n\nHe hosted a show on Earwolf called \"Get Up on This,\" in which he, Matthew Robinson, and a guest discussed things they think they should know about. Robinson and Karp also hosted \"Get Up Off This\", the podcast within a podcast where they discuss things that people should not like and other replacements. The show ran from August 2011 until October 2018 with 371 episodes made. Karp and Robinson choose Ali Segel and Erin Mallory Long to replace them as hosts.\n\nHe is a frequent guest on \"Pistol Shrimps Radio\", a podcast on Earwolf following a women's recreational league basketball team in Los Angeles. In the halftime \"Sock Report\" segment, Karp discusses the socks of Pistol Shrimps and opposing players. In the second season of \"Pistol Shrimps Radio\", Karp's character changed to \"Greg Escalante,\" who later revealed he was Jensen Karp hiding from the Church of Scientology. He also hosts a podcast with his mother where she gives love advice to listeners called \"Motherly Love\".\n\nKarp appeared on \"The Howard Stern Show\" in 2011 to talk about his time in the rap industry and perform The Roll Call with Howard & Lisa G. He also acted as the Creative Director at comedy YouTube Channel, Jash, where he produced and wrote on projects like The ArScheerio Paul Show and the Chance the Rapper music video for \"Na Na.\". He has written for \"Rolling Stone\", the ESPYs, the MTV Movie and Video Awards, \"The Late Late Show with James Corden,\" and \"Funny or Die\".\n\nOn March 22, 2018, Karp got engaged to actress Danielle Fishel. Karp and Fishel married on November 4, 2018. Fishel announced in January 2019 that they were expecting their first child in July 2019. Fishel gave birth to a boy named Adler on June 24, 2019.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1942895", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942895", "title": "Breathing Lessons", "text": "Breathing Lessons\n\nBreathing Lessons is a Pulitzer Prize–winning novel by American author Anne Tyler, published in 1988. It is her eleventh novel.\n\nThe story describes the joys and pains of the ordinary marriage of Ira and Maggie Moran as they travel from Baltimore to attend a funeral and back home again in one day. It also examines Maggie's attempts to reconcile her son and daughter-in-law. During the journey to the funeral, we learn how both Ira and Maggie have forgone their youthful dreams and feel they have settled for an \"ordinary life.\" We experience how they exasperate each other—Maggie too talkative, too meddling; Ira too logical, uncommunicative, and too judgmental. A few detours during their 90-mile drive reveal Ira and Maggie's \"incompatibilities, disappointments, unmet expectations—and lasting love\".\n\nEdward Hoagland describes the novel: \"Maggie, surprised by life, which did not live up to her honeymoon, has become an incorrigible prompter. And she has horned in to bring about the birth of her first grandchild by stopping a 17-year-old girl named Fiona at the door of an abortion clinic and steering her into marrying Maggie's son, Jesse, who is the father and, like Fiona, a dropout from high school...The book's principal event is a 90-mile trip that Maggie and Ira make from Baltimore...to a country town in Pennsylvania where a high school classmate has suddenly scheduled an elaborate funeral for her husband. Maggie...indulges her habit of pouring her heart out to every listening stranger, which naturally infuriates Ira, who, uncommunicative to start with, has reached the point where Maggie can divine his moods only from the pop songs of the 1950s that he whistles...Maggie, although exasperating...is trying to make a difference, to connect or unite people, beat the drum for forgiveness and compromise. As Ira explains, \"It's Maggie's weakness. She believes it's all right to alter people's lives. She thinks the people she loves are better than they really are, and so then she starts changing things around to suit her point of view of them.\"\n\nIn 1994, a television movie based on the book was made for the Hallmark Hall of Fame. It was directed by John Erman, and starred James Garner and Joanne Woodward as Ira and Maggie Moran. It was filmed in the Pittsburgh PA area. Joanne Woodward won a Golden Globe Award and a Screen Actors Guild Award for her performance.\n\nKevin McKeon also adapted the novel into a stage play. From June 6 – 29, 2003, he directed its premier run at the Book-It Repertory Theatre, at Seattle Center House Theatre, Seattle Center, in Seattle, Washington.\n\nIn her review in \"The New York Times\", Michiko Kakutani writes, \"In Miss Tyler's capable hands...the Morans' outing...becomes a metaphor both for their 28-year marital odyssey, and for the halting, circuitous journey all of us make through life - away from and back to our family roots, out of innocence into sorrow, wisdom and loss. To followers of the author's work, the Morans will be instantly recognizable as Tyler creations. There's a quaint, homespun quality to them that, given a less talented and generous writer, might seem cloying or sentimental...Miss Tyler is able to examine, again, the conflict, felt by nearly all her characters, between domesticity and freedom, between heredity and independence. In addition, she is able, with her usual grace and magnanimity, to chronicle the ever-shifting covenants made by parents and children, husbands and wives, and in doing so, to depict both the losses - and redemptions - wrought by the passage of time.\"\n\nEdward Hoagland wrote: \"Anne Tyler, who is blessedly prolific and graced with an effortless-seeming talent at describing whole rafts of intricately individualized people, might be described as a domestic novelist, one of that great line descending from Jane Austen. She is interested not in divorce or infidelity, but in marriage -- not very much in isolation, estrangement, alienation and other fashionable concerns, but in courtship, child raising and filial responsibility. It's...a mark of her competence that in this fractionated era she can write so well about blood links and family funerals, old friendships or the dogged pull of thwarted love, of blunted love affairs or marital mismatches that neither mend nor end. Her eye is kindly, wise and versatile (an eye that you would want on your jury if you ever had to stand trial), and after going at each new set of characters with authorial eagerness and an exuberant tumble of details, she tends to arrive at a set of conclusions about them that is a sort of golden mean.\"\n\n\"Breathing Lessons\" won the Pulitzer Prize for Fiction in 1989 and was a finalist for the 1988 National Book Award. It was also Time Magazine's Book of the Year.\n\n"}
{"id": "1942898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942898", "title": "Aroldo", "text": "Aroldo\n\nAroldo () is an opera in four acts by Giuseppe Verdi to an Italian libretto by Francesco Maria Piave, based on and adapted from their earlier 1850 collaboration, \"Stiffelio\". The first performance was given in the Teatro Nuovo Comunale in Rimini on 16 August 1857.\n\n\"Stiffelio\" had provoked the censorship board because of “the immoral and rough” storylines of a Protestant minister deceived by his wife and also because making the characters German did not please an Italian audience, although, as Budden notes, the opera \"enjoyed a limited circulation (in Italy), but with the title changed to \"Guglielmo Wellingrode\", the main protagonist now a German minister of state\". Verdi had rejected an 1852 request to write a new last act for the \"Wellingrode\" version, but, by Spring 1856, in collaboration with his original librettist, Piave, he decided to rewrite the story line and make a small amount of musical changes and additions. However, as it turned out, the work was to be more complex than that.\n\nIt drew inspiration from novels of Edward Bulwer-Lytton, specifically his \"Harold: the Last of the Saxon Kings\", for the re-location of the opera to England and—in the last act—to Scotland in the Middle Ages and for the names of its characters, the principal being Harold, re-cast as a recently returned Crusader. Kimbell notes that \"hints\" came from the work of Walter Scott, whose novel of 1825, \"The Betrothed\", would \"already have been familiar to Italian audiences through Giovanni Pacini's 1829 opera, \"Il Contestabile di Chester\"\". Also, the novelist's \"The Lady of the Lake\" was the inspiration for the hermit Briano.\n\nThe rewriting was delayed until after March 1857 by the preparation for Paris of \"Le trouvère\", the French version of \"Il trovatore\", and Verdi's work with Piave on \"Simon Boccanegra\". However, as work resumed on \"Aroldo\" with Piave, the premiere was planned for August 1857 in Rimini. When Verdi and Strepponi arrived there on 23 July, they found both librettist and conductor, Angelo Mariani (with whom he had become friends over the previous years and who had been chosen to conduct the new opera) working together. While Phillips-Matz notes that there was \"hysteria\" at Verdi's presence, there was also opposition to \"Aroldo\" that was combined with an influx of people from other cities anxious to see the new opera. With Mariani, rehearsals began well; the conductor reported: \"Verdi is very very happy and so am I\".\n\nBy the time of the premiere, considerable changes had been made to the three-act \"Stiffelio\", the prime one being an added fourth act with new material, described by conductor Mariani to Ricordi as \"a stupendous affair; you'll find in it a storm, a pastoral chorus, and an Angelus Dei treated in canon and beautifully wrought\". Lina became Mina; Stiffelio, as discussed, was now Aroldo; Stankar morphed into Egberto; Jorg, the bass role, emerged as Briano.\n\n19th century\n\nRimini became the location of the premiere, although when \"Aroldo\" was ready to be staged, Verdi had chosen Bologna for its location, but Ricordi, his publisher and friend, suggested that it be staged in Rimini. The premiere performance was an enormous success and the composer was called onto the stage 27 times.\n\nIn the seasons which followed the premiere, it appeared in the autumn 1857 season first in Bologna, then Turin, Treviso, and Verona.\nThe winter carnival season of 1858 saw productions in Venice at La Fenice, Cremona, Parma (which chose it over the original \"Simon Boccanegra\"), Florence, and Rome. In 1859, it was given in Malta and then, in the following two years, \"Aroldo\" appeared on stages in Genoa, Trieste, Lisbon, and Palermo at the Teatro Massimo Bellini. \nIn the Spring of 1864 it was seen in Turin again and then, in the years up to 1870, performances were recorded as having occurred in Pavia, Como, Modena, and, once again, in Venice. Its success varied considerably, especially in Milan in 1859, where \"it was a fiasco. It was the public, not the censors, who found it unacceptable\".\n\n20th century and beyond\n\nToday, \"Aroldo\" is one of Verdi's very rarely performed operas, \"especially since the rediscovery in 1968 of its parent work \"Stiffelio\" \". A major revival occurred at the Wexford Festival in 1959 and it was not performed in the US until 4 May 1963 at the Academy of Music in New York. In February 1964 it was given its first performance in London.\n\nThe opera was presented in a concert version by the Opera Orchestra of New York in April 1979 (with Montserrat Caballé and Juan Pons), from which was produced the first recording. But the New York Grand Opera claims to have given the first New York staged performance, in 1993. In 1985—1986 the Teatro La Fenice in Venice mounted the two operas back to back. Sarasota Opera presented it as part of its \"Verdi Cycle\" in 1990, with Phyllis Treigle as Mina.\n\nThe opera was given at the Teatro Municipale di Piacenza in 2003 and, as part of its stagings of the total Verdi \"oeuvre\", ABAO in Bilbao, Spain presented the opera in March/April 2009.\nBy following its tradition to present rarely performed operas, UCOpera presented \"Aroldo\" in 2017. \n\n\"Scene 1: A hall in Egberto's castle in Kent\"\n\nThe people of Aroldo's castle welcome him home from the Crusades. Then Mina enters distraught and remorseful, confessing her adultery (\"ciel, ch'io respiri\" / \"Heavens, let me breathe\"). She prays as Briano and Aroldo enter, the latter concerned about his wife's state of mind given that she had been his inspiration during the long period that he was away fighting the Saracens. He explains that Briano, now his faithful companion, had saved his life. Taking her hand, he is surprised to see that she is not wearing his mother's ring, which she had received upon his mother's death. He demands to know where it is, and tries to get to the bottom of her state of mind but they are interrupted by the return of Briano with news of the arrival of guests. Both men leave.\n\nMina's father, Egberto, enters and observes her writing a letter. Already suspicious of what he believes has been going on between Godvino and Mina, he demands to know if she is writing to Godvino. Snatching away the unfinished letter, he reads the words addressed not to Godvino but to Aroldo - \"I am no longer worthy of you\" - and realizes that he was not mistaken. He begins to demand that Mina keep silent and ensure Aroldo's continued love (Duet: \"Dite che il fallo a tergere\" / \"You mean that your heart lacks the strength to wipe away your guilt?\") while she further resists. Again, demanding that she obey him, he continues to make his demands: (Duet: \"Ed io pure in faccia agl'uomini\" / \"And must I smother my rage...Must I conquer my shame?\"). Finally, Egberto repeats his demands that she relent: it is his will, it is her duty as a wife, she must stop crying, and no one must suspect anything. She appears to relent (Duet: \"Or meco venite, il pianto non vale\" / \"Come with me now, weeping will not help you\").\n\n\"Scene 2: A suite of rooms in the castle\"\n\nFurtively, Godvino enters the room while a party is progressing in interior rooms. He laments that Mina has not contacted him in any way and, in a pre-arranged plan, leaves a letter within the pages of a book to which he has a key. However, unseen by Godvino, Briano has entered and observes Godvino's actions. He grows suspicious: \"a friend of Aroldo?\", he wonders. The guests flow into the room and Godvino is absorbed within the group. They all express their joy at Aroldo's return. Briano approaches Aroldo and explains what he has seen, pointing across the room to Enrico, Mina's cousin, as the one who planted the letter and who then picked up the book. But he is amongst the group and is dressed in the same way as Godvino, so there is some confusion. Suspicion falls on Enrico as Aroldo reveals that his honour has been betrayed. He tells of a similar situation in Palestine: Aria: \"Vi fu in Palestina\" / \"In Palestine there was once a certain man...\", and confronts Mina, since he knows that she has a key to the book and he believes that it too contains a secret letter. Mina's attempts to stall fail, and Aroldo breaks open the locked book and a letter drops from it to the floor. Quickly stepping forward, Egberto picks it up stating that no one shall see it. Aroldo is angry and Mina defends her father. Knowing the real culprit, Egberto confronts Godvino and demands that they meet in the churchyard.\n\n\"The castle cemetery\"\n\nMina is alone in the churchyard; she despairs of her situation (Aria: \"(Oh Cielo, dove son'io?\" / \"O Heaven. Where am I?\"). When Godvino enters, she demands to be left alone and her ring be returned. He declares his love and insists upon staying to defend her while she proclaims that she hears her mother's voice coming from her tomb (Aria: \"Ah, dal sen di quella tomba\" / \"Ah, from the depths of that tomb there echoes a sinister trembling\"). Egberto comes across the couple, sends Mina away, and then confronts Godvino, offering him the choice of two proffered swords. Godvino refuses to take one. The older man continues to press him (\"Are you dead to any sense of honour?\"), accusing him of cowardice and stating that he will reveal him to be a bastard. At that remark, Godvino accepts the challenge and the two men fight until interrupted by the arrival of Aroldo. Stating that \"I speak in the name of God\", Aroldo tries to force the two men to stop their fighting. In disarming him, he takes Godvino's hand only to have Egberto question how Aroldo can take the hand of the very man who has betrayed him. With Mina's return, Aroldo finally realizes the truth (Aria: \"Ah no! è impossibile\" / \"Ah no! It is impossible. Tell me at least that I have been mistaken\"). Finally, Egberto insists that Aroldo must punish the right person and not Mina, and Aroldo attempts to return Godvino's sword and commence fighting him. Godvino refuses. With Briano's arrival and his attempts to calm his friend (\"my heart has lost everything\", Aroldo cries, while the chorus of praying parishioners can be heard coming from the church), all join in a plea for forgiveness. Aroldo collapses.\n\n\"An anteroom in Egberto's castle\"\n\nEgberto feels dishonoured and he regrets not being able to take his revenge, since Godvino has fled from the cemetery, taking Mina with him. He puts up his sword: \"O spada dell'onor\" / \"O sword of honour...begone from me\". Regretting that he has lost a daughter (\"Mina, pensai che un angelo\" / \"Mina, I thought, through you, heaven had sent me an angle, a ray of pure love\"), he writes a brief farewell note to Aroldo, and is about to take poison when Briano enters looking for Aroldo. He tells Egberto that Godvino has been apprehended and will be brought to the castle. Taking up his sword again, Egberto expresses his joy that one of the two of them will soon die: \"Oh gioia inesprimibile\" / \"Oh inexpressible joy...\" He leaves.\n\nAroldo enters with Godvino. The two men sit down to talk and Aroldo asks his rival what he would do if Mina were free. Mina is then summoned and Godvino is instructed to conceal himself and listen to the couple's conversation. Aroldo explains to Mina that they need to talk since he will be leaving that evening and that they must part (\"Opposto è il calle che in avvenire\" / \"In the future, our lives must follow opposite paths\"). He adds that she can redeem herself from dishonour by marrying the man who has captured her heart, and he presents her with a divorce paper to sign. She does so, declaring that they are free of each other. But she states that, in spite of everything, she could not be another man's wife and that she will always love Aroldo. Questioning her, he asks if she had been tricked into entering into the relationship by Godvino. When the answer is \"yes\", Aroldo swears that Godvino must die, indicating that her seducer is in the next room. Just then, Egberto bursts in, his sword covered in blood, and he declares that Godvino is dead. Briano leads Aroldo off to church while Mina cries out there has been no forgiveness for her sin.\n\n\"A valley close to Loch Lomond\"\n\nAt sunset, a group of shepherds, huntsman and reapers have gathered on the banks of the Loch. As they leave, Aroldo and Briano appear, Aroldo confessing that he still loves Mina. The men pray as a storm begins and it drives the countryfolk back to the lake. A boat barely survives the storm and it arrives on land carrying Mina and Egberto, now shipwrecked. Seeking shelter, Egberto knocks on a stranger's door and, to his surprise, Aroldo appears, but Aroldo is angry, since he and Briano have fled to this remote place with no expectation of ever meeting Mina or her father again. In spite of Aroldo's objections, Egberto pleads with him to accept Mina as his daughter, if not as her husband. Mina tries to calm her father (\"Taci, mio padre, calmati\" / \"Be silent, father, calm yourself\"). \nIn the hope of obtaining forgiveness (in a trio involving Egberto, Mina and Aroldo) she begs for a \"last word\" with Aroldo (\"Allora che gl'anni\" / \"When the weight of years...\"). Then Briano steps forward. He proclaims the often-quoted words from the Bible: \"Let him who is without sin cast the first stone\". Aroldo is reduced to tears and, with the pleadings of both Briano and Egberto, he forgives his wife. As all exclaim \"Let the divine will triumph\", the couple embraces, and Mina and Aroldo are reunited.\n\nWhile it has been noted by modern scholars that the libretto was:\nBut at the time of the premiere, Mariani was enthusiastic, as demonstrated in his letter to Ricordi: \nBudden notes another aspect: \"the new music reaps the benefit of seven years' growing maturity...[resulting in]..the richer vein of musical invention.\" On the other hand, he also notes that more conventional elements in \"Aroldo\" sometimes replace the more original aspects of \"Stiffelio\", such as the opening drinking chorus which replaces a recitative for Jorg in the original version.\n\nNotes\n\nCited sources\n\nOther sources\n\n"}
{"id": "1942900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942900", "title": "Byrd Theatre", "text": "Byrd Theatre\n\nThe Byrd Theatre is a cinema in the Carytown neighborhood of Richmond, Virginia. It was named after William Byrd II, the founder of the city. The theater opened on December 24, 1928 to much excitement and is affectionately referred to as \"Richmond’s Movie Palace\". It was the first cinema in Virginia to be outfitted when built with a sound system (although other existing theaters had already been retrofitted for sound).\n\nBuilt in 1928, the theater cost $900,000 (inflation adjusted equivalent $12,430,000 in 2014) to construct. The builders were Charles Somma and Walter Coulter. The original name for the theater was the State Theater, but by the completion of the construction the name was already taken. It was then named after William Byrd II, founder of the city of Richmond.\n\nThe Byrd Theatre opened for the first time on December 24, 1928. At the time, adult tickets were 50 cents for evening shows and 25 cents for matinees, while a child's tickets was only 10 cents. The first movie was the film \"Waterfront\", a First National film starring Dorothy Mackaill and Jack Mulhall. In addition, the manager at the time was Robert Coulter, who remained the manager until his retirement in 1971, and is rumored to haunt the theatre.\nIn 1953, the original 35mm Simplex standards were replaced by Simplex XL 35mm projectors and the theater now mainly uses a Barco digital projector (although both 35mm Projectors are maintained and still used from time to time) as seen on a Historic Richmond 2015 tour of the projection room.\n\nThe original Brenkert Master Brenograph (F7 Model) is still used to project the Byrd Theater logo on the curtain (along with other effects).\n\nThe theatre's architect and contractor was Fred Bishop, and is considered to be of a French Empire style design. Inside, the theatre contains orchestra seating (main) for 916 and balcony seating for 476. The balcony is open whenever attendance requires and occasionally at other times by making a donation to the Byrd Theatre Foundation. The interior features a lavish design by the Arthur Brunet Studios of New York. In addition to eleven Czechoslovakian crystal chandeliers, including an 18-foot, two-and-a-half ton chandelier suspended over the auditorium (with over 5,000 crystals illuminated by 500 red, blue, green and amber lights), the interior features imported Italian and Turkish marble, hand-sewn velvet drapes, and oil on canvas murals of Greek mythology. More unusual features included a central vacuum system and a natural spring which used to supply water to the air conditioning system.\n\nBuilt during the transition between silent and talking pictures, the designers outfitted the theatre with two sound systems. One of these was Vitaphone, a relatively new sound synchronization system using phonograph records that was commercially developed by Warner Brothers. \"The Jazz Singer,\" generally acknowledged as the first talking film, was recorded using this system. The other original sound system was from Western Electric. Because at the time there was uncertainty whether \"talkies\" would continue to be popular and a significant number of the films distributed were still silent, the Byrd also included a Wurlitzer Theatre organ.\n\nThe Wurlitzer organ of the Byrd Theatre is housed in four rooms on the fourth floor above the stage. The basement also houses a vacuum blower for the piano and an elevator room which raises the organ console to stage level for performances. There is an electrical and pneumatic switching system that aids the organist in choosing which pipes and other devices to use (all of the pipe work, bells, drums, and other effects are acoustic and not electronic). As the sound level of the pipes themselves cannot be changed, the sound levels in the actual auditorium are controlled by large slats called swell shades that open and close to control the volume and a tone chute that carries the sound from the fourth floor.\n\nThere is a Lyon and Healy harp which is purely ornamental and does not play, along with a marimba that does play from the organ console in the right box. In the left box there is a Wurlitzer grand piano which can be played from the organ console or its own keyboard and a 37-note xylophone that plays from the console.\n\nHouse organists have been Carl Rhond, Wilma Beck, Waldo S. Newberry, Slim Mathis, Bill Dalton, Harold Warner, Eddie Weaver, Art Brown, James Hughes, Lin Lunde, and Bob Lent. The Wurlitzer is still played Saturday nights by current house organist Bob Gulledge.\n\nAs a result of its longevity, the Byrd Theatre was designated as a Virginia Historic Landmark in 1978, followed in 1979 by listing on the National Register of Historic Places. In 2007, the Byrd Theatre Foundation, a non-profit 501(c)(3) corporation, entered into a purchase agreement for the Byrd with the express purpose of restoring and preserving this theatre as a community resource.\n\nToday the theatre still shows movies 365 days a year, and has not been re-modeled (with the exception of repairs and minor changes such as the installment of a larger screen, new digital projection equipment and a concession stand). In 2017 the center section of seats on the main floor were removed and replaced with 236 new seats and an ADA platform. The new rows of seats are further apart than the originals offering much needed leg room. The remaining seat frames are still original, and though some are torn, most of the upstairs patterned mohair-covered upholstery is still original. In 2004, Ray Dolby, who created the Dolby Digital sound system, toured the Byrd and was so impressed with the theatre that he donated a Dolby Digital sound system, which was installed in 2006.\n\nThe Byrd now plays second-run movies for $4.00 per ticket with the exception of certain festivals such as the Richmond French Film Festival, held annually in March. In 2007, the Byrd discontinued regular playing of classic movies at midnight shows on Saturday nights due to dwindling attendance. When the Theatre isn't being used for second-run movies, the Foundation hopes to integrate cultural, educational and community aspects into the Theatre's programming while still offering movies at reasonable prices.\n\nIn 2010, a thief stole the \"Byrd Cage\" donation box, probably netting less than $100 but causing about $1,200 worth of damage to the front doors. Media coverage following the event, however, inspired Richmonders to donate much needed money for the landmark.\n\nFrom 2007 to 2014, the Byrd Theatre Foundation raised more than $1 million for replacing the roof, renovating the heating and cooling units, and investing in digital projection. Currently, the orchestra section's seating is being replaced with new seats which include more legroom and cupholders. Management expects the seating in the orchestra section to be fully installed by September 2017. The original seats are available through an online request form.\n\n"}
{"id": "1942909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942909", "title": "Steven Lisberger", "text": "Steven Lisberger\n\nSteven M. Lisberger (born April 24, 1951) is an American film director, producer and writer famous for directing \"Tron\" in 1982.\n\nLisberger was born in 1951 in New York City and grew up in Hazleton, Pennsylvania. Of his ethnic background, he says that his father was Jewish while his \"mother’s side of the family put him in a concentration camp.\" Lisberger attended The Hill School in Pottstown. He went on to become a 1974 graduate of the School of the Museum of Fine Arts in Boston, Massachusetts.\n\nWhile attending Tufts University, Lisberger and five associates formed Lisberger Studios. Their first project of note was \"Cosmic Cartoon,\" which earned a Student Academy Award nomination in 1973. It was also featured in the nationally-released anthology film, \"Fantastic Animation Festival,\" in 1977. Through his company, Lisberger Studios, Lisberger directed the production of commercials, title sequences, and feature segments for programs, such as \"Make a Wish\" and \"Rebop\".\n\nIn 1978, after moving to Venice, California, Lisberger and his business partner Donald Kushner conceived and produced a 90-minute animated film, \"Animalympics\", for NBC's coverage of the 1980 Olympics. They then turned their creative efforts to the development of \"Tron\" at The Walt Disney Company. It was released in 1982, and has since become a cult classic.\n\nHis film \"Hot Pursuit\" (1987) features one of Ben Stiller's first speaking roles.\n\nIn 1989, Lisberger directed \"Slipstream\", though the film was a critical and commercial failure.\n\nLisberger spent most of the 1990s and 2000s writing screenplays, with several being optioned by various studios.\n\nIn 2007 it was announced that he and Jessica Chobot were working together on a film project called \"Soul Code\", though it was never produced.\n\nLisberger tried for years to convince Disney to develop a \"Tron\" sequel, though the project frequently languished in development hell. Eventually, Disney green-lit \"\", and it was released in 2010 for which Lisberger served as producer. The film was a success at the box office and was followed by a television series, \"\".\n\nLisberger and his wife, Peggy, live in Santa Monica, California and have a son named Carl.\n\n"}
{"id": "1942913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942913", "title": "Vernon Estes", "text": "Vernon Estes\n\nVernon Estes (usually referred to as Vern), born January 4, 1930, is the founder and namesake of Estes Industries, the highly recognized model rocket production company, headquartered in Penrose, Colorado.\n\nIn 1957, G. Harry Stine and Orville Carlisle founded the first model rocket company, Model Missiles Incorporated, in Denver, Colorado. By 1959, the demand for rocket engines was too great for their production capabilities, so they sought out an external supplier. The Estes family business was the first fireworks company listed in the Denver phone book. Their son, Vern, took it upon himself to find a way to mechanize the production of rocket engines. He assembled a machine which he named \"Mabel,\" capable of producing a rocket engine in 5.5 seconds. The machine was powered by compressed air and hydraulics, which was a much safer choice than electricity.\n\nModel Missiles, Inc. was forced to fold due to a number of unwise business decisions. Although a model rocketry supplier had disappeared, the market still existed, and Estes formed his own company, Estes Industries, to fill this market. His first kit was the Astron Scout, a simple design that was so small it fit inside the cardboard tubes used for shipping rocket engines.\n\nIn 1961, Estes moved his company to a facility near Penrose, Colorado. Although he sold his interest in Estes Industries in 1969, he remains active in model rocketry and occasionally attends launch events.\n\nHe also helped start the National Association of Rocketry, and also helped make the Model Rocket Safety Code.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1942914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942914", "title": "NFL on NBC", "text": "NFL on NBC\n\nThe NFL on NBC is the branding used for broadcasts of National Football League (NFL) games that are produced by NBC Sports, and televised on the NBC television network in the United States.\n\nNBC had sporadically carried NFL games as early as 1939, including the championship and Pro Bowl through the 1950s and early 1960s. Beginning in 1965, NBC signed an agreement to carry the American Football League's telecasts, which carried over with the American Football Conference (AFC) when the AFL merged with the NFL. NBC would continuously carry the AFL/AFC's Sunday afternoon games from 1965 through the 1997 season, after which NBC lost the AFC contract to CBS.\n\nNFL coverage returned to NBC on August 6, 2006, under the title NBC Sunday Night Football, beginning with its coverage of the preseason Pro Football Hall of Fame Game. From 2016 to 2017, NBC added a five-game \"Thursday Night Football\" package to its offerings supplementing two Thursday games that were already part of the \"Sunday Night Football\" package. Game coverage is usually preceded by the pregame show \"Football Night in America\".\n\nNBC's coverage of the National Football League (which has aired under numerous program titles and formats) actually goes back to the beginnings of the network's relationship with the league in 1939, when its New York City flagship station, then known as W2XBS (now WNBC) aired the first televised professional football game between the Philadelphia Eagles and the now-defunct Brooklyn Dodgers football team. Even before this, in 1934, NBC Radio's Blue Network had carried the Detroit Lions' inaugural Thanksgiving game nationwide.\n\nBy 1955, NBC became the television home to the NFL Championship Game, the precursor to the Super Bowl, paying US$100,000 to the league for the rights. The network had taken over the broadcast rights from the DuMont Television Network, which had struggled to give the league a national audience (NBC's coverage of proto-Canadian Football League games from the year prior was more widely available at the time) and was on the brink of failure; the NFL's associations with NBC (as well as with CBS) proved to be a boost to the league's popularity. For the 1957 NFL Championship Game, Van Patrick and Ken Coleman split a half of the play-by-play duties and Red Grange, normally on play-by-play for Chicago Bears games on CBS, assumed the color commentator role for this game. The 1958 NFL Championship Game, played at Yankee Stadium, between the Baltimore Colts and the New York Giants went into sudden death overtime. This game, since known as the \"Greatest Game Ever Played\", was seen by many throughout the country and is credited with increasing the popularity of professional football in the late 1950s and early 1960s. Chris Schenkel called the first half while Chuck Thompson called the second half and overtime.\n\nNBC televised the NFL Championship Game until 1963. The contract for the title game was separate than the regular season contracts held by CBS, which started televising NFL games in 1956. Prior to 1962, each team had its own individual television contract. (This was in contrast to the American Football League as well as established practice in college football, both of which forced all of their members to participate in a collective television contract. As the legality of such a collective contract was still in question at the time, and would eventually be declared illegal in 1984, the NFL did not pursue such a contract until Congress explicitly allowed for the NFL to do so, with conditions, in the Sports Broadcasting Act of 1961.) NBC held individual team contracts with the Pittsburgh Steelers and Baltimore Colts in 1959, 1960 and 1961. While the games were blacked out in Pittsburgh and Baltimore, they were broadcast on other NBC stations. In some cases, the game broadcast was seen on CBS in the visiting team's home region. NBC covered eleven games in 1960 and 13 games in 1961 in a \"Game of the Week\" format. NBC would take one week off due to its coverage of the World Series. During this era, NBC broadcast pre-recorded and edited hour-long broadcasts of NFL games in the off-season under the title \"Best of Pro Football\".\n\nDuring this period, NBC also held the rights to the Pro Bowl (which was also under a separate contract from the NFL's regular season games and the NFL Championship Game) via the Los Angeles newspapers' charities. NBC televised the Pro Bowl following the 1951 and 1952 seasons and again from the 1957 to 1964 seasons. The 1957 game was offered to NBC, then CBS. Both declined to carry the game. ABC was then offered to televise and accepted, but could not gain enough clearance of affiliates in time to make it a profitable venture. Thus they also dropped out and the game was not televised.\n\nAt the start of the 1960s, 10 of the NFL's 13 NFL teams (including the brand new Dallas Cowboys) were aligned with CBS, two joined forces with NBC (the aforementioned Colts and the Steelers) and one (the Cleveland Browns) rejoined its partner, the syndicated Sports Network. NBC during this time period, employed Lindsey Nelson and Frankie Albert as their top broadcasting crew.\n\nIn Week 1 of the 1960 season, the Washington-Baltimore game was also seen on NBC affiliates in St. Louis, Los Angeles, Pittsburgh, Dallas-Ft. Worth and Detroit. For the following week, NBC's affiliates in Philadelphia, Dallas-Ft. Worth and Washington also carried Chicago-Baltimore game. There was no telecast in Week 3 as NBC was televising Game 4 of the Pirates-Yankees World Series. Week 4 saw NBC's Green Bay and Milwaukee affiliates joining in on the Los Angeles-Baltimore game. For Week 5, NBC's New York affiliate also carried the Pittsburgh-Washington game. In Week 6, NBC's Philadelphia affiliate was a part of NBC's telecast of the Green Bay Packers-Steelers game. For the following week, Chicago's NBC station picked up NBC's Green Bay-Baltimore telecast. The San Francisco Bay Area also tuned into NBC's coverage of Baltimore-Chicago in Week 8. Meanwhile, Channel 2 in Baltimore provide their own coverage locally of the Colts-Bears game, with Chuck Thompson and Bailey Goss on the call. In Week 9, WBAL in Baltimore also carried the Cleveland-Pittsburgh game. On Cleveland's own syndicated network, the game was called by Ken Coleman and Jimmy Dudley. On Thanksgiving Day, 1960, NBC's Green Bay, Milwaukee, Detroit and Los Angeles affiliates joined in on their San Francisco-Baltimore telecast. In Week 11, NBC's Pittsburgh's station also part of their coverage of the Detroit-Baltimore game. For the following week, NBC's St. Louis, San Francisco and Green Bay stations carried the Philadelphia-Pittsburgh game. In Week 13, NBC's Green Bay, Milwaukee, Los Angeles and Dallas/Ft. Worth affiliates all joined in for NBC's Pittsburgh-St. Louis telecast. \nOn April 5, 1961, NBC was awarded a two-year contract (1961–62) for the radio and television rights to the NFL Championship Game, paying US$615,000 annually for the rights ($300,000 of which was to go directly into the NFL Player Benefit Plan). On May 23, 1963, NBC was awarded exclusive network broadcast rights for the 1963 NFL Championship Game for $926,000. For the 1960 NFL Championship Game, there was an early kickoff due to NFL officials preparing for potential of sudden death overtime. Franklin Field had no lights and sunset would normally occur around 4:35 p.m. at this time of year in Philadelphia.\n\nNBC continued to televise 13 Sundays involving either the Colts and Steelers (the odd week was when NBC had the World Series) in 1961. This time, Lindsay Nelson was joined by Chuck Thompson on commentary. In Week 1, NBC's Los Angeles-Baltimore telecast was seen nationally except in NFL markets and the CBS Los Angeles network region (which featured Bob Kelley and Gil Stratton on commentary). The exception to this would be if teams did not play on Sunday, then the NBC affiliate could carry their games in those markets as well. So if the Colts or Steelers (in this case the Steelers) were not on NBC and they were on the road, then an ad-hoc regional network would be permitted to carry the game, either using its own crew or picking up the CBS feed and crew. In Week 2, NBC's affiliates in Chicago and Los Angeles also plugged into NBC's telecast of the Detroit-Baltimore game. In Week 3, the Baltimore-Green Bay game was televised locally to Baltimore on WBAL 11. Apparently if Baltimore viewers wanted to see the World Series, they would have had to choose between WRC 4 in Washington or WGAL 8 in Lancaster, Pennsylvania. As previously mentioned, there was no NFL telecast on NBC due to coverage of Game 4 of the World Series. In Week 11, NBC's Green Bay, Milwaukee and Detroit affiliates were added to their St. Louis-Pittsburgh telecast. For Week 13, the telecast of the Pittsburgh-Washington game included Channel 4 in Los Angeles and Channel 11 in Baltimore. NBC's Week 14 telecast of the Pittsburgh-St. Louis included channel 4 in the Bay Area and channel 11 in Baltimore.\n\nAt the end of the 1964 season, NBC would carry the Pro Bowl one last time as the game was still the property of the Los Angeles Newspaper Charities. CBS not only won the deal to carry the NFL Championship Game starting in 1964 (which had been at NBC since 1955), but it would also begin televising the Pro Bowl after the 1965 season as the NFL took control of the all-star tilt. NBC's 1965 Pro Bowl telecast was aired in color and featured Ken Coleman and Gordy Soltau on the call.\n\nNBC resumed professional football telecasts on a regular basis in 1965. On January 29, 1964, NBC signed a five-year deal with the American Football League (replacing ABC in that role), paying them US$36 million to televise its games; with this and the increased, heated battle over college prospects, both leagues negotiated a merger agreement on June 8, 1966. Although they would not officially fully merge and adopt an interlocking schedule until 1970, two of the conditions of the agreement were that the winners of each league's championship game would meet in a contest (which would eventually become known as the Super Bowl) to determine the \"world champion of football\", and that there would be a common player draft. Curt Gowdy, who had covered the first five seasons of the American Football League with broadcast partner Paul Christman on ABC, moved over to NBC in the fall of 1965. For the next decade, Gowdy was the lead play-by-play announcer for the network for both AFL football (AFC from 1970 onward) and Major League Baseball games; however, Gowdy also covered a wide range of sports, earning him the nickname of the \"broadcaster of everything.\" Besides Paul Christman, Curt Gowdy's other football broadcast partners were Kyle Rote, Al DeRogatis, Don Meredith, John Brodie and Merlin Olsen.\n\nThe 1965 AFL season began many occasions through the years of NBC's October Sunday telecasts that being forced to shift to local stations and productions due to NBC's commitment to postseason baseball. For example, Week 5's game between Kansas City and Denver was aired on Kansas City's WDAF 4. Charlie Jones and Ken Case were on the call for the Chiefs-Broncos game. And with NBC focusing color cameras for the World Series in Los Angeles, it is likely that Week 5's San Diego-Buffalo game (called by Curt Gowdy and Paul Christman) was televised in black and white.\n\nFor the 1966 AFL season, NBC would feature about 40 games in color, including their three postseason telecasts. With massive wattage from the Orange Bowl floodlights, the New York-Miami game (called by Curt Gowdy and Paul Christman) from Week 2 was likely the first pro football night game ever to be televised in color. With Game 4 of the 1966 World Series landing in Week 6 of the AFL season, and the AFL schedule reflects the priority. Therefore, the Miami-Oakland (called by Charlie Jones and Paul Christman) was seen after the World Series clincher, possibly already in progress. For Week 14, Curt Gowdy and Paul Christman called a late afternoon game in the Oakland (the Raiders were playing the Jets on December 3) on Saturday, flew a red-eye to Boston, and then called the Buffalo-Boston game the next day at 1 p.m.\n\nOn December 13, 1966, the rights to the Super Bowl for four years were sold to CBS and NBC for $9.5 million. The first ever AFL-NFL World Championship Game was played on January 15, 1967. Because CBS held the rights to nationally televise NFL games and NBC had the rights to broadcast AFL games, it was decided by the newly merged league to have both of them cover that first game (the only other NFL game since to have been carried nationally on more than one network until December 29, 2007 New England Patriots-New York Giants game, which aired on NBC, CBS and the NFL Network). However, NBC was also forced to broadcast the game over CBS' feed and cameras (CBS received prerogative to use its feed and camera angles since the Coliseum was home to the NFL's Rams), while only CBS' cameras and technical crew were allowed to work the game, although NBC was allowed to use its own commentators. As a result, NBC's crew had little to no control over how the game was filmed. Each network used its own announcers: Ray Scott (doing play-by-play for the first half), Jack Whitaker (doing play-by-play for the second half) and Frank Gifford provided commentary on CBS; while Curt Gowdy and Paul Christman were did so for NBC. NBC did have some problems with the dual telecast; the network did not return in time from a halftime commercial break for the start of the second half. Therefore, the first kickoff was stopped by the game's officials and was redone once NBC returned to the broadcast.\n\nWeek 4 of the 1967 AFL season coincided with the race for the American League pennant. NBC decided to focus on their baseball coverage instead of covering the early games; thus resulting in Curt Gowdy calling the Twins-Red Sox game; Jim Simpson calling the Angels-Tigers game); while the AFL schedule resulted in the two early games (Broncos-Oilers and Dolphins-Jets games not being televised with another Chargers-Bills game being a locally televised game airing only in San Diego on then-NBC affiliate KOGO (now ABC affiliate KGTV).\n\nThe trio of Curt Gowdy, Kyle Rote and Al DeRogatis would each also work two games in Week 1 of the 1968 AFL season. All three teamed to call the Cincinnati-San Diego game on Thursday Night. DeRogatis would team with Charlie Jones for the Boston-Buffalo game on Saturday, and Gowdy and Rote would call the Kansas City-Houston game on Sunday. The trio would also broadcast Super Bowl III. Late in the season, there were a number of double-duty weeks by announcers. In Week 14, Jim Simpson and DeRogatis called the Buffalo-Houston game on Saturday, then the following day Simpson called the Denver-Oakland game while DeRogatis called the Cincinnati-New York Jets game. The following week, DeRogatis again pulled double-duty, calling the Kansas City-Denver game on Saturday (with Charlie Jones), then joining Jim Simpson for the Oakland-San Diego game the next day. Jones called the Boston-Houston game with George Ratterman also that week. Al DeRogatis called \"The Heidi Game\" with Curt Gowdy in Week 11 (Rote joined Jim Simpson for the San Diego-Buffalo game). Charlie Jones substituted for Gowdy in Week 5 (Boston-Oakland), while Gowdy called Game 4 of the 1968 World Series.\n\nThe next three AFL-NFL World Championship Games, later renamed the \"Super Bowl\", were then divided by the two networks (with each network broadcasting the game exclusviely): CBS broadcast Super Bowls II and IV while NBC covered III. When NBC Sports broadcast Super Bowl III, sports broadcasts were produced under the oversight of the NBC News division (this remained the case until well into the 1970s, long after both CBS and ABC had spun-off their sports operations into departments separate from their news divisions). Curt Gowdy handled the play-by-play duties and was joined by color commentators Al DeRogatis and Kyle Rote in the broadcast booth. Also helping with NBC's coverage were Jim Simpson (reporting from the sidelines) and Pat Summerall (helping conduct player interviews for the pregame show, along with Rote). In an interview later done with NFL Films, Gowdy called it the most memorable game he ever called because of its historical significance. While the Orange Bowl was sold out for the game, the live telecast was not shown in Miami due to both leagues' unconditional blackout rules at the time. This game is thought to be the earliest surviving Super Bowl game preserved on videotape in its entirety save for a portion of the Baltimore Colts' fourth quarter scoring drive.\n\nCharlie Jones substituted for Curt Gowdy during Week 5 of the 1969 season (New York Jets-Cincinnati), while Gowdy called Game 2 of the World Series. Al DeRogatis substituted for Kyle Rote in Weeks 9 (San Diego-Kansas City) and 11 (Oakland-Kansas City). Rote paired with Jim Simpson in both instances. And with 1969 being the final AFL season before the AFL–NFL merger, this was also the final season where both leagues would have Thanksgiving doubleheaders. Starting in 1970, only two games would be played on Thanksgiving, with the Lions and Cowboys hosting those games, and an AFC team rotating as the visiting team between Detroit and Dallas every year.\n\nOne of the most remembered games on NBC was a 1968 game known as the \"Heidi Game\". As its nationally televised game between the Oakland Raiders and New York Jets running late, the network discontinued coverage while the game was still playing to air the movie \"Heidi\" just moments after the Jets' Jim Turner kicked what appeared to be the game-winning field goal with 1:05 remaining. While millions of irate fans, missing the finale, jammed NBC's phone lines, the Raiders scored two touchdowns in eight seconds during the final minute to win 43–32.\n\nThe reaction to \"The Heidi Game\" resulted in the AFL, and most other sports leagues, demanding thereafter that television networks broadcast all games to their conclusion. NFL contracts with the networks now require games to be shown in a team's market area to conclusion, regardless of the score.\n\nTo avoid a repeat incident, a 1975 NBC broadcast of \"Willy Wonka & the Chocolate Factory\" was delayed until the completion of a Washington Redskins–Raiders game. The network installed a new phone in the control room wired to a separate exchange, becoming known as the \"Heidi Phone\", to prevent this situation from occurring in the future.\n\nIn 1970, after the NFL and AFL completed their merger, NBC signed a contract with the league to broadcast games from the American Football Conference (AFC). After this season, Al DeRogatis and Kyle Rote swapped positions; resulting in DeRogatis being the #1 color commentator alongside Curt Gowdy and Rote being the #2 analyst alongside Jim Simpson.\n\nOn January 17, 1971, NBC's telecast of Super Bowl V between the Baltimore Colts and Dallas Cowboys was viewed in an estimated 23,980,000 homes, the largest household audience ever for a one-day sports event. The game was called by play-by-play announcer Gowdy and color commentator Rote. Although the Orange Bowl was sold out for the event, unconditional blackout rules in the NFL prohibited the live telecast from being shown in the Miami area on WSVN. The blackout was challenged in Miami-Dade District Court by attorney Ellis Rubin, and although the judge denied Rubin's request since he felt he did not have the power to overrule the NFL, he agreed with Rubin's argument that the blackout rule was unnecessary for the Super Bowl.\n\nOn January 14, 1973, NBC's telecast of Super Bowl VII between the Miami Dolphins and Washington Redskins was watched by approximately 75 million viewers. NBC's telecast of Super Bowl IX between the Pittsburgh Steelers and Minnesota Vikings had an audience of approximately 78 million viewers. The game, called by Curt Gowdy and Al DeRogatis, was the first Super Bowl to be televised live in the city where it was being played. Despite the league's unconditional blackout rules that normally would have prohibited the live telecast from being shown locally, the NFL allowed the game to be telecast in the Los Angeles area on KNBC on an experimental basis when all tickets for the game were sold. The league then changed its blackout rules the following season to allow games sold out at least 72 hours in advance to be televised in the host market. No subsequent Super Bowl has ever been blacked out in the city it has been played in, since all of them have been sold out.\n\nOn December 16, 1973, NBC cameras were there to cover O. J. Simpson as he rushed for 2,000 yards in one season. On that particular day, Simpson's Buffalo Bills would go on to beat the New York Jets at Shea Stadium. Two days before he was assigned to call 1973's regular-season finale between the Houston Oilers and Cincinnati Bengals, Bill Enis died from a heart attack at the age of 39. Al Michaels was brought in to replace Enis in the booth with Dave Kocourek. 1974 would mark the final season for what would be Al Michaels' first stint with NBC. That season, Michaels called six-tier games with Mike Haffner. Also in 1974, Don Meredith would come over to NBC from ABC's \"Monday Night Football\". He would join Curt Gowdy and Al DeRogatis for the playoffs and Super Bowl IX. He also worked that year's Thanksgiving game between Denver and Detroit. In Week 13, he joined Jim Simpson and John Brodie to call the Cleveland-Dallas game.\n\nIn 1975, because of NBC's coverage of Game 2 of the World Series between the Cincinnati Reds and Boston Red Sox, NBC's 1:00 p.m. NFL telecasts were cancelled. All games except for the New England Patriots–Cincinnati Bengals match were picked up by local stations in the markets of the visiting team. Meanwhile, at 4:00 p.m. Eastern Time, NBC aired a game between the Oakland Raiders and Kansas City Chiefs nationally. As the 1975 World Series progressed, NBC would advertise its upcoming weekend schedule during the breaks:\nAs it turned out, no baseball was played that Sunday. Three days of rain in Boston forced Game 6 to be postponed until the following Tuesday, October 21, followed by Game 7 the next night.\n\n1975 was also the final season for Al DeRogatis at NBC. He would return briefly in 1988 as a fill-in color commentator during the Summer Olympics. The following year, Curt Gowdy split double-duty with John Brodie and Don Meredith in Weeks 12 and 14. In Week 12, Gowdy and Brodie worked the Thanksgiving Day game (Buffalo-Detroit), while Gowdy and Meredith worked the Pittsburgh-Cincinnati game. In Week 14, Gowdy and Brodie called the Pittsburgh-Houston game on Saturday, then the following day Gowdy and Meredith called the Cincinnati-New York Jets game. Don Meredith would return to \"Monday Night Football\" at the end of the season. After Meredith left NBC, John Brodie would be the #1 color commentator alongside Curt Gowdy in 1977 and 1978. Meanwhile, after this season, Tim Ryan, who was on the fifth-tier announcing team with Lionel Aldridge, left NBC to join CBS Sports.\n\nOn January 9, 1977, 81.9 million people (the largest audience ever for a sports event at that point) watched NBC's telecast of Super Bowl XI between the Oakland Raiders and Minnesota Vikings. Only three other television events prior to that time, all of which aired on all three commercial networks of the era (the funeral of President John F. Kennedy, the 1969 moonwalk of Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin; and the 1974 resignation speech of President Richard M. Nixon), attracted more viewers than Super Bowl IX. The game was also the last broadcast that color commentator Don Meredith, who called the game with Gowdy, did for NBC, as he returned to ABC to rejoin the \"Monday Night Football\" crew for the 1977 season, where he had been a commentator from 1970–73. Bryant Gumbel and Lee Leonard with analyst John Brodie anchored NBC's pregame, halftime and postgame coverage.\n\nOn October 12, 1977, Commissioner Pete Rozelle negotiated contracts with the three television networks to televise all NFL regular season and postseason games, as well as select preseason games, for four years beginning with the 1978 season. ABC was awarded yearly rights to 16 Monday night games, four prime time games, the AFC-NFC Pro Bowl, and the Hall of Fame Games. CBS received the rights to all National Football Conference (NFC) regular season and postseason games (except those in the ABC package) and to Super Bowls XIV and XVI. NBC received the rights to all AFC regular-season and postseason games (except those in the ABC package) and to Super Bowls XIII and XV. Industry sources considered it the largest single television package ever negotiated.\n\nAfter the 1977 season, Jack Buck, who was the initial host for NBC's first official studio pregame show in 1975, and on the fourth-tier announcing crew with Jimmy Johnson in 1977, would return to CBS Sports, primarily calling games for CBS Radio. Dick Stockton, who was on the sixth-tier team with Len Dawson would also return to CBS Sports.\n\nAfter the 1975 World Series, Curt Gowdy was removed from NBC's baseball telecasts, when sponsor Chrysler insisted on having Joe Garagiola (who served as a spokesman in many of the automotive manufacturer's commercials) be the lead play-by-play voice. Gowdy continued as NBC's lead NFL announcer through the 1978 season, with his final broadcast being the memorable Super Bowl XIII between the Pittsburgh Steelers and Dallas Cowboys. With NBC now anxious to promote Dick Enberg (who hosted NBC's pre-game and post-game coverage of Super Bowl XIII) to the lead NFL position, Gowdy moved over to CBS to call more football, as well as baseball on radio.\n\nThe teams of Dick Enberg and Merlin Olsen and Curt Gowdy and John Brodie began 1978 as co-head crews. But the unofficial passing of the torch happened on Thanksgiving, when Enberg and Olsen covered the Denver-Detroit game, while the following Sunday, Gowdy and Brodie covered the Seattle-Oakland game. Len Dawson joined Dick Enberg in covering the Houston-Miami wild card game, and Charlie Jones in the Houston-New England divisional playoff game. Dawson did not work Week 15 due to mourning the death of his wife. Merlin Olsen would join Curt Gowdy and John Brodie for that season's AFC Championship Game.\n\nNBC's January 21, 1979 telecast of Super Bowl XIII between the Pittsburgh Steelers and Dallas Cowboys was viewed in 35,090,000 households, by an estimated 96.6 million fans. The game – called by Curt Gowdy on play-by-play, with Merlin Olsen and John Brodie on color commentary and Dick Enberg served as the pregame host for the broadcast with Bryant Gumbel and Mike Adamle as sideline reporters – was Gowdy's seventh and final Super Bowl telecast, and his last major event for NBC before moving to CBS later in 1979. Enberg had essentially succeeded Gowdy as NBC's lead NFL play-by-play announcer in the 1978 regular season, and network producers did not decide until nearly the last minute which of them would conduct play-by-play for that year's Super Bowl. NBC preceded the game with the first network broadcast of \"Black Sunday\", a 1977 film that depicts a terrorist attack on a fictitious Super Bowl game in the Orange Bowl between Pittsburgh and Dallas (and which utilized footage shot during Super Bowl X). The pregame festivities featured the Dallas Cowboys Cheerleaders and several military bands. The Colgate Thirteen performed the national anthem. The coin toss ceremony featured Pro Football Hall of Famer and longtime Chicago Bears owner/head coach George Halas. The national radio broadcast of Super Bowl XIII was carried by the CBS Radio Network, with Jack Buck and Hank Stram calling the action. Locally on radio, Verne Lundquist and Brad Sham called the game for the Cowboys on KRLD in Dallas, while Jack Fleming and Myron Cope called it for the Steelers on WTAE in Pittsburgh. A technical glitch led to Fleming and Cope's commentary going out over NBC's television broadcast in place of the network's own audio during the coin toss ceremony.\n\nAfter his call of Super Bowl XIII, Curt Gowdy would leave NBC for CBS, calling games with Hank Stram for two seasons.\n\nNBC made history in the 1980s with an announcerless telecast, which was a one-shot experiment credited to Don Ohlmeyer, between the Jets and Dolphins in Miami on December 20, 1980), as well as a single-announcer telecast, coverage of the Canadian Football League during the 1982 players' strike (the first week of broadcasts featured the \"NFL on NBC\" broadcast teams, before a series of blowout games on the network and the resulting low ratings resulted in NBC cutting back and eventually canceling its CFL coverage), and even the first female play-by-play football announcer, Gayle Sierens (which in its own way set the mold for female sportscasters of today).\n\nBob Trumpy filled in for Merlin Olsen alongside Dick Enberg during the Oakland-Philadelphia regular season game in Week 12 of the 1980 season.\n\nTelevision ratings in 1980 were the second-best in NFL history, trailing only the combined ratings of the 1976 season. All three networks posted gains, and NBC's 15.0 rating was its best ever. NFL broadcasts on CBS and ABC had their best ratings since 1977, with 15.3 and 20.8 ratings, respectively. In 1981, ABC and CBS set all-time rating highs. ABC finished with a 21.7 rating and CBS with a 17.5 rating. NBC however, was down slightly to 13.9; this was, at the time, the nadir of the Fred Silverman era, when ratings for the network were down across the board.\n\nOn November 15, 1981, the San Francisco 49ers game against the Cleveland Browns sold out in time for the TV blackout to be lifted. But KRON (NBC in the Bay Area) had to air Oakland's road game against Miami. They ultimately showed Browns-49ers game on tape delay that night.\n\nOn January 2, 1982, NBC was on hand for a divisional playoff game between the San Diego Chargers and Miami Dolphins that would go down as the \"Epic in Miami\". The game, won by the Chargers in overtime, 41–38, is one of the most famous in National Football League lore because of the conditions on the field, the performances of players on both teams, and the numerous records that were set. Don Criqui and John Brodie called the action and Bryant Gumbel served as the anchor, one of his final assignments for NBC Sports as he began co-hosting \"Today\" two days after the game. The following week, NBC covered the AFC Championship Game between the Chargers and Cincinnati Bengals. While the \"Epic in Miami\" was played in the heat and humidity of Miami, the Chargers found themselves dealing with nearly the exact opposite conditions in the \"Freezer Bowl\" in Cincinnati.\n\nIn 1982, the NFL signed a five-year contract with the three television networks (ABC, CBS, and NBC) to televise all NFL regular season and postseason games starting with the 1982 season. During the 1982 season, Dick Enberg teamed with John Brodie to call the Week 1 game between the Raiders-49ers, and then with Len Dawson for the Week 2 game between the Raiders and Falcons.\n\nNBC's national Nielsen rating of 48.6 for Super Bowl XVII was the second-highest for a Super Bowl broadcast, trailing only the 49.1 garnered by Super Bowl XVI on CBS the year before. Following the game, NBC aired the premiere episode of \"The A-Team\", beginning the tradition of the game's host network airing programming after the game.\n\nOn August 3, 1983, NBC broadcast the first televised NFL game from London with the St. Louis Cardinals and Minnesota Vikings playing at Wembley Stadium. NBC would regularly televise pre-season exhibition games outside of the United States from 1986-1994. 1983 was also Bob Costas' last season in the booth (by this time, he was on fourth-tier team with Bob Trumpy) before being promoted as the new host (replacing Len Berman) of \"NFL '84\".\n\nIn the 1984 season, the October 18 game between the Pittsburgh Steelers at San Francisco 49ers and the Buffalo Bills at Seattle Seahawks were both on at the same time as Game 5 of the World Series (also on NBC) between the San Diego Padres and the Detroit Tigers. The Steelers won that day. It was the only loss the 49ers suffered in the 1984 season. Meanwhile, almost of the New York Jets games that year were called by Marv Albert and John Brodie also worked with Phil Stone (for the Steelers-Oilers game in Week 14), and Marty Glickman (for the Bills-Jets in Week 15) in 1984, and Jay Randolph (for the Steelers-Raiders game in Week 16).\n\nFor the 1985 season, NBC used Graham De Wilde's composition \"Send Them Victorious\" for their official theme music for the NFL. On January 26, 1986, the Chicago Bears defeated the New England Patriots 46–10 in Super Bowl XX at the Louisiana Superdome. The NBC telecast replaced the final episode of \"M*A*S*H\" as the most-viewed television program in history, with an audience of 127 million viewers, according to ACNielsen figures. In addition to drawing a 48.3 rating and a 70% share in the United States, Super Bowl XX was televised to 59 foreign countries and beamed via satellite to the QE II. An estimated 300 million Chinese viewers watched a tape delayed broadcast of the game in March. NBC Radio figures indicated an audience of 10 million for the game.\n\nBob Griese would work the as a field reporter, and would serve as a third commentator alongside Dick Enberg and Merlin Olsen for Super Bowl XX. Following the 1986 season, Griese would move to ABC as a college football analyst. In Week 15 of that season, Charlie Jones, Jimmy Cefalo, and Griese (who normally worked with Marv Albert in 1986) called the Miami-Los Angeles Rams game.\n\nAs previously mentioned, during the 1987 season, through a short stint with NBC Sports, Gayle Sierens became the first woman to do play-by-play for an NFL regular season football game when she called the December 27 game between the Seattle Seahawks and the Kansas City Chiefs. Sierens' broadcast partner on that day was Dave Rowe. She was originally to be a regular play-by-play announcer for the season, but a contract dispute with WFLA in Tampa, Florida prevented her from continuing in that role beyond her lone game. One year later, Sierens would join Len Berman and Paul Maguire on NBC's \"NFL Live!\" program while regular panelists Bob Costas, Ahmad Rashād and Gayle Gardner were in Seoul for the Summer Olympics.\n\nNBC's 1989 telecast of Super Bowl XXIII between the San Francisco 49ers and Cincinnati Bengals was watched by an estimated 110,780,000 viewers, according to ACNielsen, making it the sixth most-watched program in television history. The game was Merlin Olsen's final Super Bowl broadcast, as he was demoted the following season to make room for Bill Walsh. The game featured a special segment by Frank Deford profiling recently deceased Pittsburgh Steelers owner Art Rooney. This was also the first NFL game that NBC covered with their new \"Quantel Cypher\" graphics system, which was introduced during their coverage of the 1988 Seoul Olympics (the network had used Chyron for their graphics prior to Super Bowl XXIII). With the win, the 49ers became the first team to win Super Bowls televised on three different networks (the other two being Super Bowl XVI on CBS and Super Bowl XIX on ABC). Since then, the Washington Redskins (in 1992), the Green Bay Packers (in 1997), the Pittsburgh Steelers (in 2006) the New York Giants (in 2008) the New England Patriots (in 2015) and the Denver Broncos (in 2016) have accomplished this same feat. This was the last outdoor Super Bowl to start earlier than 6:00 pm Eastern Time, as it started just after 5:00 pm.\n\nStarting in 1989, NBC commissioned musician (and then-\"Entertainment Tonight\" co-host) John Tesh, who would later compose \"Roundball Rock\" for the forthcoming \"NBA on NBC\" broadcasts to compose a new theme, called \"Gridiron Dreams\" which was used on the network's NFL telecasts until 1991. The versions used on the pre-game show are different from the version supplied on Tesh's albums. For the 1992 season, John Colby composed a theme only used that year through the 1992 AFC Championship Game in which the Buffalo Bills beat the Miami Dolphins 29–10.\n\nWeek 7's telecast of Patriots-49ers game (called by Dick Enberg and Bill Walsh) was moved from San Francisco's Candlestick Park to Stanford Stadium in Palo Alto, California following the Loma Prieta earthquake in the Bay Area on October 17. Following the 1989 season, after being demoted to the #2 team alongside Charlie Jones, Merlin Olsen would move over to CBS. Olsen's final telecast for NBC was the between the Bills and Browns. Meanwhile, Lyle Alzado, who was on the eighth-tier team alongside Fred Roggin, would leave NBC after the 1989 season in order to attempt a comeback as a player. Alzado however did work Week 4's Chargers-Cardinals game alongside Jay Randolph.\n\nDon Ohlmeyer, then executive producer of NBC's telecasts of National Football League (NFL) games, began considering doing a telecast without announcers early in the 1980 season. He had several reasons. First, he had long believed that the announcers were overly chatty and did not let the game speak for itself when they needed to. Second, NBC, while it primarily covered the games of the NFL's American Football Conference (AFC) teams, generally in smaller markets, was earning ratings almost as good as those of rival CBS, who at the time was broadcasting games involving teams from the National Football Conference (NFC). A game without announcers might well attract enough viewers to put NBC past CBS.\n\nIn October of that year reports began to circulate that Ohlmeyer was considering the idea. He confirmed it but said he would only actually do it for a game that had no playoff implications. The last week of the season gave him the chance, with a contest scheduled for Saturday, when it would be shown nationally, between the New York Jets and the Miami Dolphins.\n\nReaction was mixed, ranging from \"good-natured humor to applause to some surprising anger,\" as Bryant Gumbel would later put it on air shortly before the telecast started. \"My first reaction was of incredible nerve, nervousness,\" Dick Enberg, one of the NBC announcers, recalled to ESPN 30 years later. \"We all gathered together, hoping that Ohlmeyer was dead wrong ... What if this crazy idea really worked?\" Dolphins' defensive end Bob Baumhower was also apprehensive about what viewers might overhear among the players. \"I hope we're all extra careful,\" he said. \"There's a lot of extra talking going on out there that people don't realize.\"\n\nOhlmeyer and the NBC broadcast crew prepared to compensate for the lack of announcers in several ways. NBC promoted the game by telling viewers they would, in lieu of announcers, have the experience of actually being in the stadium, so the network placed more microphones, and more sensitive microphones, around the field than it otherwise would have. However, the NFL refused to relax one of its restrictions and allow microphones to be placed on the players themselves, which unfortunately meant that it was impossible for viewers to make out signals called by the quarterbacks.\n\nThe network increased its use of on-camera graphics during the game to regularly convey down and distance, score, and statistical information, to the point that more were than had ever been used in any previous NFL telecast. The monochromatic yellow line that was superimposed on the field to indicate the distance needed for a first-down was then the most advanced technology available; however, speaking later from a 21st-century perspective, Ohlmeyer said seems like \"troglodyte communication\". The technology of the time would have allowed for a continuous score bug and a running clock, both of which would have eliminated the need to constantly provide that information, but it did not occur to the crew to deploy it that way.\n\nNBC asked Bob Kaufman, the Orange Bowl's public address announcer, to make more frequent announcements of information than usual, and to include more information in those announcements than stadium announcers typically did. Accordingly, he noted aloud during the game that referees were calling for a first-down measurement, and Kaufman gave the length of game time that a drive had taken. Television audiences were able to hear this.\n\nBryant Gumbel introduced the game prior to the kickoff as \"a telecast that figures to be different.\" He was then shown walking into the stadium to watch the game. At frequent intervals, usually every other commercial break, he addressed the camera and gave the audience the score and brief updates as to what had happened and what was happening at that point. His presence was augmented by excerpts from prerecorded interviews with coaches and players, including the Dolphins' Don Shula and Duriel Harris.\n\nThe New York Jets/Cleveland Browns game from December 12, 1981 was handled by Dick Enberg working solo without usual broadcast partner Merlin Olsen. To fill the gap, interviews from both teams would be used where Olsen's commentary would have been fitting.\n\nAt the start of the 1982 season, Dick Enberg teamed with John Brodie to call the Week 1 game between the Raiders-49ers, and then with Len Dawson for the Week 2 game between the Raiders and Falcons.\n\nAs previously mentioned, NBC (with the exception of its northernmost affiliates that were located close to the Canadian border) broadcast games in the CFL for three weeks during the 1982 NFL players' strike The first week of broadcasts featured the \"NFL on NBC\" broadcast teams, before a series of blowout games on the network and the resulting low ratings resulted in NBC cutting back and eventually cancelling its CFL coverage. (At the time, ESPN held the U.S. broadcast rights, who sublicensed them to NBC during the strike; rights reverted to ESPN after the experiment failed.) The announcers who called the games for NBC are in parentheses.\n\n\nThere were blackouts of the CFL games. The blackouts weren't exactly because of not selling out the stadiums, but for being too close to Canada. For instance NBC's affiliate in Syracuse did not get these games. Their TV listings showed these CFL games on CKWS 11 (CBC Kingston, Ontario), while NBC (WSTM 3) listed “NFL Football New England at Buffalo (if strike settled) or movie” for Sunday, October 3.\n\nA game between featuring the Edmonton Eskimos at the Winnipeg Blue Bombers was tentatively scheduled for 1:30 p.m. Eastern Time on Sunday October 17, even making newspaper TV listings. At the last moment NBC cancelled the broadcast. The network was worried that the game would run over its allotted time and conflict with Game 5 of the 1982 World Series, which was supposed to begin at 4:30. NBC did not resume CFL broadcasts afterwards. As previously mentioned, the games it showed had mostly been blowouts and the network even ended its October 3, 1982 broadcast \"Heidi Game\" style before the game ended in order to not delay prime time programming.\n\nOn January 8, 1983, NBC began their coverage of the NFL playoffs. As a consequence to the strike, which shortened the regular season from a 16-game schedule to only 9 games, a special 16-team playoff format (which was dubbed the \"Super Bowl Tournament\") was instituted. Geographical divisional standings were ignored and instead, the top eight teams from each conference were seeded 1–8 based on their regular season records. Ultimately, this resulted in the early round playoff games being regionally televised for the first and to date, only time. Don Criqui and John Brodie called the Browns-Raiders game while Bob Costas, Bob Trumpy, and Bob Griese called the Patriots-Dolphins game, both at 4 p.m. Eastern Time. The next day, NBC televised the Jets-Bengals (with Charlie Jones and Len Dawson on the call) and Chargers-Steelers games (with Dick Enberg and Merlin Olsen on the call) at 12:30 p.m. ET.\n\nOn March 6, 1985, NBC Radio and the NFL entered into a two-year agreement granting NBC the radio rights to a 37-game package for the 1985 and 1986 seasons. The package included 27 regular season games and 10 postseason games. Also in 1985, the NFL showed a ratings increase on all three networks for the season, with viewership gains of 4% on NBC, 10% on CBS, and 16% on ABC. The 1984 season saw a new theme utilized throughout both the pregame show and game-opening sequence, which would be utilized for the remainder of the decade. Another music selection was used for the \"Great Moments\" segment, a segment of clips from older games on NBC that was unique in that instead of the NFL Films footage, NBC used their own footage and audio. This segment would be featured at the beginning of the pregame show for much of the latter part of the 1980s.\n\nDuring 1985 and the season that followed, NBC's #2 team television broadcasters Don Criqui and Bob Trumpy were the lead broadcast team on NBC Radio.\n\nIn January 1987, NBC Radio's broadcast of Super Bowl XXI between the New York Giants and Denver Broncos was heard by a record 10.1 million people. Also in 1987, at the NFL's annual meeting in Maui, Hawaii on March 15, the NFL announced the signing of new three-year television contracts with ABC, CBS, and NBC for the 1987 to 1989 seasons.\n\nDuring September of the 1988 season, NBC brought in some legendary broadcasters to fill-in for their regular play-by-play men. This was because, much of their key personnel (namely, Dick Enberg, Marv Albert, Don Criqui, Charlie Jones, Tom Hammond as well as \"NFL Live!\" commentators Bob Costas, Ahmad Rashād, and Gayle Gardner) were away in Seoul, South Korea for NBC's coverage of the Summer Olympic Games.\n\nAlbert was calling boxing during the Olympics alongside Ferdie Pacheco, and then spent the three weeks after that covering the World Series. Meanwhile, Criqui and Bob Trumpy called swimming (alongside Candy Costie-Burke for the synchronized events and John Naber) and called volleyball (alongside Chris Marlowe) respectively. Jones called track and field (alongside Frank Shorter and Dwight Stones) and Jimmy Cefalo served as the daytime host. Costas and Gardner were NBC's late night hosts. Enberg served as host for the Opening and Closing Ceremonies and called men's basketball (alongside Al McGuire) and gymnastics (alongside Mary Lou Retton and Bart Conner). Jay Randolph called baseball during the Olympics alongside Jim Kaat.\n\nIn the meantime, filling-in were names such as Curt Gowdy, Ray Scott, Chuck Thompson, Marty Glickman, Merle Harmon and Al DeRogatis. Bob Costas' predecessor, Len Berman, filled-in for him at the anchor's desk while Gayle Sierens (who a year earlier, made history by becoming the first female play-by-play announcer in NFL history) was also added to the studio team.\n\nIn Week 2, Chuck Thompson called the Dolphins-Bills game alongside Jimmy Cefalo, who was normally paired with Charlie Jones. Meanwhile, Curt Gowdy called Week 2's Steelers-Redskins game with Merlin Olsen, who normally worked with Dick Enberg. Al DeRogatis called Week 2's Jets-Browns game alongside Mel Proctor, Ray Scott called the Raiders-Oilers game with Joe Namath (who normally worked with Proctor), and Merle Harmon called that week's Chargers-Broncos game alongside Paul Hornung.\n\nFor Week 3, Thompson worked with Namath on the Broncos-Chiefs game, Gowdy and Al DeRogatis called the Oilers-Jets game, and Scott and Olsen called the Seahawks-Chargers game. The following week, Joe Namath called the Dolphins-Colts game alongside Merle Harmon. Meanwhile, the team of Gowdy and DeRogatis called the Jets-Lions game and Scott and Olsen called the Chargers-Chiefs game. For Week 5, Gowdy and Olsen called the Bills-Bears game, Scott and Namath called the Broncos-Chargers game, and Merle Harmon and DeRogatis called the Chiefs-Jets game. Finally for Week 6, Gowdy called the Patriots-Packers game (in Milwaukee) alongside Jerry Kramer.\n\nOther announcers who worked for NBC during the Olympic period include Kevin Slaten and Dave Lapham, who worked as a team on the Bengals-Eagles game from Week 2. In Week 5, Slaten was paired with Jerry Kramer on the Seahawks-Falcons game. The prior week, Kramer called the Patriots-Oilers game alongside Mel Proctor.\n\nAlso during the 1988 season, Jon Morris had nine analyst assignments in the 16 weeks of the season, and was paired with seven different play-by-play men. He only worked with Tom Hammond and Sam Nover twice each. Morris worked with Hammond on the Oilers-Colts game in Week 1 and the Patriots-Bills game in Week 8. Meanwhile, Morris worked with Nover on the Chiefs-Seahawks game in Week 2 and the Steelers-Browns game in Week 12.\n\nOn March 12, 1990, at the NFL's annual meeting in Orlando, Florida, the league new ratified four-year television agreements for the 1990 to 1993 seasons involving ABC, CBS, NBC, ESPN and TNT. The contracts totaled US$3.6 billion, the largest package in television history. This contract saw each network having rights to one Super Bowl telecast as part of the package. The fourth Super Bowl (XXVIII) was up for a separate sealed bid. NBC won the bid, and since they were last in the rotation for Super Bowl coverage in the regular contract, ended up with two straight Super Bowls (although they were originally scheduled to broadcast Super Bowl XXVI; CBS instead televised the game as part of a swap with the network). CBS is the only other network to televise two Super Bowls (Super Bowl I and II) in a row. NBC, which had held XXVII (according to the original rotation, NBC would have had XXVI and CBS XXVII, but the NFL allowed the networks to switch the two games in order to allow CBS a significant lead-in to its coverage of the 1992 Winter Olympics), was the only network to bid on XXVIII. Previously, the league alternated the Super Bowl broadcast among its broadcast network partners, except for Super Bowl I; CBS broadcast Super Bowl II, then the league rotated the broadcast between CBS and NBC until 1985 when ABC entered the rotation when that network broadcast Super Bowl XIX.\n\nThe live Sunday matches of the 1991 Ryder Cup held in late September on NBC were scheduled to end by mid-afternoon in order to allow NBC to cover regional NFL games at 4:00 p.m. Eastern Time.\n\nDick Enberg and Bill Walsh did not call any games during Weeks 9-12 of the 1991 NFL season due to being assigned to covering Notre Dame home games on NBC (this being the network's first season as the home of Fighting Irish home games). Walsh would leave NBC after this season to return to coaching at Stanford. Walsh's spot as NBC's number #1 color commentator would be subsequently filled by Bob Trumpy. Meanwhile, Bill Parcells was originally hired by NBC after leaving the New York Giants as a panelist for \"NFL Live!\". However, he would be assigned early in the 1991 season as a substitute for Paul Maguire while Maguire recovered from a heart attack. Maguire would make his return in Week 6, calling the Jets-Browns game alongside Marv Albert. Bill Parcells left NBC the 1992 season to take the New England Patriots head coaching job. At this point, Parcells as assigned to work with Marv Albert full-time while Paul Maguire worked with Don Criqui.\n\nFor Week 1 of the 1991 season, Marv Albert substituted as host of \"NFL Live!\". Regular host Bob Costas along with O. J. Simpson, play-by-play broadcaster Tom Hammond and analyst Todd Christensen were assigned to cover the world track and field championships in Tokyo, Japan. For the 1993 season, Jim Lampley would replace Bob Costas as host of \"NFL Live!\". During the 1993 season, there was an open option for the #6 and #7 broadcast teams which included Bob Costas, Dan Hicks, Drew Goodman, and Jim Donovan at play-by-play, and Joe Gibbs, Dan Hampton, and Mike Ditka at analyst. Costas called the Steelers-Broncos game in Week 12 alongside Gibbs while Gibbs normal partner, Dan Hicks was paired with Dan Hampton for the Colts-Bills game. Hicks and Hampton would also call the following week's game between the Raiders and Bengals. O. J. Simpson would be a sideline reporter for several announcing crews during the 1993 season, including Super Bowl XXVIII alongside Todd Christensen. Simpson would be gone following the season due to the fall-out from his murder case.\n\nWhile with \"NFL on NBC\", Drew Goodman was slated to join Todd Christensen as the #4 announcing team in 1994, then in the next two years, he was slated to join the #7 team, to be paired in 1995 with Tunch Ilkin then with Bob Golic in 1996. However, Jim Lampley moved from the studio host to play-by-play in 1994, with Greg Gumbel taking over as the studio host, so Goodman was not placed into the lineup after all.\n\nOn December 18, 1993, the NFL announced new four-year television agreements involving ABC, ESPN, TNT and NFL newcomer Fox, which took over the NFC package from CBS. The NFL completed its new television agreements on December 20, with the announcement that NBC would retain the rights to the AFC package.\n\nJoe Gibbs would join Mike Ditka at \"NFL Live!\" the following season, while Ahmad Rashād would return as co-host with Greg Gumbel. After the 1993 season, Bob Costas' role on \"The NFL on NBC\" would be reduced to presenting feature stories and interviews. On November 27, 1994 during a game between the Miami Dolphins and New York Jets, NBC would be on hand for what would become known as the \"Clock Play\". This was when Dolphins quarterback Dan Marino ran a trick play, pretending to stop the game clock but instead threw a pass that scored the game-winning touchdown, ultimately giving Miami the 28–24 victory.\n\nStarting in 1995, NBC unveiled a new theme by veteran composer Randy Edelman, which was used for both its pregame show (now simply titled \"The NFL on NBC\") and game telecasts. This theme would be used until Super Bowl XXXII in 1997 between the Denver Broncos and Green Bay Packers. NBC lost AFC television rights after 1997 to CBS which currently has them today. The NFL would not return to NBC until 2006 for \"Sunday Night Football\". NBC still uses the 1995 to 1997 era theme, but only for online streams of \"Sunday Night Football\" online (dubbed \"NBC Sunday Night Football Extra\") if the feed is accessed prior to the start of the game.\n\nDuring the 1995 season, the duo of Don Criqui and Beasley Reece called almost all of the Jacksonville Jaguars games airing on NBC. In Week 4, Phil Simms and Paul Maguire (who by this point, were a part of the #1 announcing team alongside Dick Enberg) joined Tom Hammond at Notre Dame to call the game played against Texas on September 23. In Week 13 of the 1995 season, Dick Enberg called the Thanksgiving Day game between Kansas City and Dallas with regular partners Phil Simms and Paul Maguire, and on that Sunday, Marv Albert called the Pittsburgh-Cleveland game with Paul Maguire. This prompted other play-by-play announcers to move up (Dan Hicks and Cris Collinsworth, Tom Hammond and Bob Trumpy, and Don Criqui and Bob Golic). Therefore, Dan Hicks called Week 13's Bengals-Jaguars game with Tunch Ilkin, Tom Hammond called the Patriots-Bills game with Cris Collinsworth, Don Criqui called the Broncos-Oilers game with Bob Golic, and Bob Trumpy called the Dolphins-Colts game with Jim Lampley.\n\nOn December 17, 1995, NBC was on hand for the final home game for the Cleveland Browns before their relocation to Baltimore. The game was called by Charlie Jones and Randy Cross with Jim Gray on the sidelines. The game itself between the Browns and Cincinnati Bengals was blacked out on television locally, but NBC did broadcast extensive pregame coverage from Cleveland with Bob Costas and Mike Ditka.\n\nFollowing Week 3 of the 1997 season, Marv Albert was fired by NBC because of sexual assault charges pressed against him. Albert, also the lead voice of \"NBA on NBC\" at the time, was replaced in both venues. Albert's final NFL broadcast for NBC was the Ravens-Giants game alongside Randy Cross and Len Berman. Tom Hammond would eventually move up to the #2 team, while Dan Hicks would primarily call games with Hammond's old partner, Jim Kelly. Three-man booths were near-prevalent in the aftermath of Marv Albert's firing. Outside of NBC's #1 team of Dick Enberg, Phil Simms, and Paul Maguire, NBC used the teams of Charlie Jones, Bob Trumpy, and Jim Mora (Seattle-Indianapolis in Week 3 and Cincinnati-Tennessee in Week 7), Jones, Trumpy, and Randy Cross (Kansas City-Miami in Week 6), Tom Hammond, Cross, and Jim Kelly (Buffalo-New England in Week 7), Dan Hicks, Trumpy, and Kelly (Pittsburgh-Cincinnati in Week 8), Hicks, Paul Maguire, and Kelly (Miami-Buffalo in Week 10), Hicks, Kelly, and James Lofton (Kansas City-Jacksonville in Week 11), Jones, Trumpy, and Cross (New York Jets-Miami in Week 11), Joel Meyers, Maguire, and Kelly (Jacksonville-Buffalo in Week 16, and Don Criqui, Mora, and Cross (Indianapolis-Minnesota in Week 17).\n\nIn 1998, during halftime of the , NBC showed a replay of the \"Immaculate Reception\" from its original broadcast of the 1972 AFC between Pittsburgh Steelers and Oakland Raiders. The replay presented a different angle than the NFL Films clip that is most often shown. According to a writer for the \"New York Daily News\", \"NBC's replay showed the ball clearly hit one and only one man[:] Oakland DB Jack Tatum.\" Curt Gowdy, doing the live TV play-by-play, called it as having been deflected by Tatum, and reiterated that during the video replay.\n\nNBC's rebound in overall ratings in both the 1980s and 1990s (after years of being in the bottom of the ratings cellar) was attributed in part to its continuing coverage of the NFL. But with television contract re-negotiations in early 1998 ushering in the era of multibillion-dollar broadcasting agreements, an era of pro football broadcasting would soon come to an unceremonious conclusion.\n\nAs previously mentioned, CBS, stung by Fox's surprise bid four years earlier, aggressively pursued NFL broadcast rights when the contract came up for renegotiation in 1997. CBS agreed to pay US$4 billion over eight years ($500 million per season) to take over NBC's AFC broadcast rights, which the network still holds to this day. NBC, meanwhile, had indicated a desire to bid for \"Monday Night Football\" rights in 1998, but eventually gave up, allowing ABC to retain the rights.\n\nNBC's consecutive 33-year run as a football broadcaster came to an end with Super Bowl XXXII, played on January 25, 1998 between the Denver Broncos and Green Bay Packers. The Broncos won 31–24 to snap the AFC's 13-year losing streak in the Super Bowl (since then, the AFC has won eleven additional Super Bowls to the NFC's seven). Following the game, NBC aired a special one-hour episode of \"3rd Rock from the Sun\", which opened live at the game site with Greg Gumbel playing himself before he was \"attacked\" by show star John Lithgow as his Dick Solomon character, warning about the invasion of alien females that was part of the episode's plotline.\n\nWhile at CBS, Randy Cross would become the #2 analyst, Sam Wyche would leave the pregame show to become the #3 analyst, and Don Criqui and Beasley Reece would reunite for the 1998 season. Dick Enberg would stay with NBC for another two years before joining CBS in 2000, where he would be the #2 announcer until 2005. Cris Collinsworth joined \"Fox NFL Sunday\" and then would team up with Joe Buck and Troy Aikman on the #1 team from 2002-2004.\n\nGiven the challenge of making its coverage of the American Football Conference different from that of NBC, CBS passed over longtime NBC veterans Charlie Jones and Bob Trumpy in favor of newcomers such as Ian Eagle and Steve Tasker. According to CBS Sports executive producer Terry Ewert, \"We wanted to forge our own way and go in a different direction. We wanted to make decisions on a new way of looking at things.\" In one stark difference from NBC, CBS used a score and clock graphic for its NFL games that was constant during the game broadcasts outside of break tosses, a la the \"FoxBox\". CBS' contribution was dubbed the \"EyeBox\".\n\nAfter NBC lost its NFL rights to CBS at the end of the 1997 season, it in the process, marked the beginning of a slow decline for its sports division, culminating in the unproductive 2004–05 prime time season (despite heavy lineup promotion during the 2004 Summer Olympics), when NBC carried no major sporting championships during prime time (NBC had already lost Major League Baseball broadcasting rights in 2000 and National Basketball Association rights in 2002; the network had acquired National Hockey League rights in 2004, but that league was involved in a lockout that season). The other major sport on NBC was the NASCAR Winston/Nextel Cup Series.\n\nNBC's attempts to replace the NFL with other professional football, including the XFL in 2001 and the Arena Football League coverage from 2003 to 2006, proved to be very unsuccessful. Like CBS before it, NBC would later decide that not having NFL rights did too much damage to its overall ratings to justify foregoing the high rights fees required.\n\nIn 2005, NBC re-entered the NFL picture during negotiations for television contracts. The network was able to take advantage of a league desire to be able to switch the schedule so non-competitive games would not air in the league's marquee timeslot. Since this would require a move to Sunday night in order for this to happen, and since ABC decided to relinquish their rights to \"Monday Night Football\", NBC was able to bid on the \"Sunday Night Football\" package and won the rights after ESPN (corporate sibling to ABC and which had previously held those rights) elected to take over the \"Monday Night Football\" rights instead. NBC resumed airing NFL football on August 6, 2006, with coverage of the annual AFC-NFC Hall of Fame Game.\n\nNBC's rights package is nearly identical to the previous ABC package; in addition to the Hall of Fame Game, the contract gave NBC the rights to one additional preseason game, the National Football League Kickoff game, and two Saturday playoff games. NBC also received the rights to two Super Bowls in its bidding, Super Bowl XLIII and Super Bowl XLVI as well as the Pro Bowls in each of those two years. ABC did not have the right to be flexible with their \"Monday Night Football\" schedule and picked matchups based on a team's record in the previous season (as NBC does), which often led to teams with losing records playing each other on Monday night later in the season. The moves were intended to break NBC out of its ratings slump; however, this did not happen right away, and although \"NBC Sunday Night Football\" is the network's top-rated program and places in the top 30 among all broadcast network programs, it had no effect on the rest of the network's schedule for several years.\n\nAl Michaels, the longtime voice of \"Monday Night Football\" and other events for ABC, moved to NBC to become the play-by-play announcer for \"Sunday Night Football\". Michaels was originally slated to continue calling \"Monday Night Football\" for ESPN, but a trade was worked out between NBC and The Walt Disney Company, the parent company of ABC and ESPN. In the trade, Michaels was able to join NBC in exchange for Disney acquiring from NBC's corporate sibling Universal Pictures, among other things, the rights to the cartoon character Oswald the Lucky Rabbit, which was created at Universal by Walt Disney and Ub Iwerks before the founding of Disney's studio (and then given to Walter Lantz, whose most famous creation would be Woody Woodpecker).\n\nExcept in 2007 (where the Pro Football Hall of Fame Game was televised by NFL Network as part of the \"Thursday Night Football\" package; NBC had intended to televise the China Bowl game in Beijing, which was postponed and ultimately cancelled), and in all Summer Olympics years (due to NBC's telecasts of the Games; the games in these years have typically been assigned to either NFL Network, or ESPN under the current iteration of \"MNF\"), the Hall of Fame Game has aired on NBC in 2006, 2008–2010, 2013-15 2017 and remained on the network until 2019.\n\nJohn Madden (who had last worked with Al Michaels on \"Monday Night Football\" for ABC) was one of the first people hired by NBC, chosen to continue as a color analyst. Cris Collinsworth substituted for Madden when he was unavailable. For example, during Week 7 of the 2008 season (that week's game was involved Seattle playing against Tampa Bay), Madden was given an off-week to alleviate a hectic coast-to-coast bus travel schedule which would have taken him from Jacksonville to San Diego to Tampa in three weeks.\n\nSuper Bowl XLIII was NBC's first Super Bowl broadcast since Super Bowl XXXII, The five-hour pre-game show was preceded by a two-hour special edition of \"Today\" hosted by the regular weekday team live from Tampa and the NFL Films – produced \"Road to the Super Bowl\". Matt Millen was part of the coverage as a studio analyst. The \"Today\" contribution included portions of a taped interview with President Barack Obama and pictures of troops viewing the proceedings in Iraq. His calling of the game made John Madden (in his final game broadcast) the first person to have announced a Super Bowl for each of the four major U.S. television networks, having called five Super Bowls for CBS, three for Fox, and two for ABC prior to joining NBC in 2006; Al Michaels also became the second person (after Pat Summerall on CBS and Fox) to be the lead Super Bowl play-by-play announcer for two different major U.S. networks (ABC and NBC). The Super Bowl was one of two major professional sports championship series NBC broadcast in 2009, as it would also broadcast the Stanley Cup Finals. Both championship series involved teams from Pittsburgh winning championships (the Penguins would win the Stanley Cup that year).\n\nThe NFL has a strict policy prohibiting networks to run ads during the Super Bowl from the gambling industry, and has rejected ads from the Las Vegas Convention and Visitors Authority. It had been reported that if the television program \"Las Vegas\" was airing when NBC televised Super Bowl XLIII in 2009, they likely would not have been allowed to promote the series during the entire broadcast. As \"Vegas\" ended during the 2007–2008 television season, this was no longer an issue for NBC.\n\nWith an average U.S. audience of 98.7 million viewers, Super Bowl XLIII was the most-watched Super Bowl in history, and at that point the second-most-watched U.S. television program of any kind (trailing only the final episode of \"M*A*S*H\" in 1983; both would be broken by Super Bowl XLIV the following year). However, the Nielsen rating of 42.1, was lower than the 43.3 rating for Super Bowl XLII the previous year.\n\nTom Hammond was initially NBC's secondary play-by-play announcer, calling one of NBC's two games on Wild Card Weekend. Cris Collinsworth called wild card games alongside Hammond until 2008, and took over on a permanent basis for the 2009 season when Madden announced his retirement from broadcasting on April 16, 2009. Prior to this, he served as a studio analyst for NBC's pregame show, \"Football Night in America\". For the 2009 season, Joe Theismann and Joe Gibbs took Collinsworth's place in the booth for the first game of Wild Card Weekend. Andrea Kremer meanwhile, was the sideline reporter. The announcement of Joe Gibbs as one of the color commentators for the Wild Card Saturday playoff games marked Gibbs' return to NBC's NFL coverage; where following his first retirement from the Redskins, he served as an occasional commentator on regional coverage during the 1993 NFL season before becoming a panelist on \"NFL Live!\"/\"NFL on NBC\" between the 1994 season until NBC lost their rights to cover the NFL after Super Bowl XXXII.\n\nBeginning with the 2010 season, NBC elected to use the Notre Dame football broadcast team as its #2 Wild Card Weekend broadcast team, calling the early game, as Mike Mayock and Alex Flanagan joined Tom Hammond. Dan Hicks filled in for Al Michaels on the 2012 preseason match-up between the Indianapolis Colts and the Pittsburgh Steelers. Al Michaels took some time off during that game after anchoring NBC's daytime coverage of the Summer Olympics in London. Hicks also replaced Tom Hammond on the Notre Dame broadcast team at this point.\n\nThe 2013 season marked the last time that NBC would broadcast a wild card playoff doubleheader for the foreseeable future. For 2014, ESPN aired one wild card playoff game, and from 2015 onward, ABC would simulcast ESPN's presentation of the wild card playoff game. NBC would meanwhile, only air one wild card playoff game and one divisional playoff game.\n\nOn December 14, 2011, the NFL, along with Fox, NBC and CBS, announced the league's rights deal with all three networks was extended to the end of the 2022 season. The three network rights deal includes the continued rotation of the Super Bowl yearly among the three, meaning NBC will air Super Bowls XLIX (2015), LII (2018), and LVI (2022). The new rights deal also includes NBC receiving the primetime game of the Thanksgiving tripleheader previously carried by NFL Network, along with a divisional playoff game and one wild card game rather than the full Wild Card Saturday package.\n\nNBC's broadcast of Super Bowl XLVI at the end of the 2011 season became the most-watched program in the history of United States television, with 111.3 million US viewers, according to Nielsen. The game was the first Super Bowl telecast to be streamed live online legally in the U.S., both to computers (via NFL.com and NBCSports.com) and mobile devices (via Verizon Wireless's NFL Mobile app). The game marked Al Michaels' eighth time conducting play-by-play for a Super Bowl (Michaels had previously done play-by-play for Super Bowls XXII, XXV, XXIX, XXXIV, XXXVII and XL for ABC, and Super Bowl XLIII for NBC).\n\nNBC's television broadcast of the Patriots-Jets game on November 22, 2012, immediately following the now notorious \"Butt Fumble\" play, color commentator Cris Collinsworth said that \"Vince Wilfork just threw Brandon Moore into Mark Sanchez,\" a view simultaneously echoed on the Patriots radio call by color analyst Scott Zolak. Moore disagreed with Collinsworth: \"when somebody slides into the back of you, you're going to fall. That happens a lot in general. You don't know what's going on (behind you).\" Responding to Moore, Collinsworth qualified his description in a phone interview with ESPN, saying that Wilfork could see the play develop, so \"instead of trying to go around Moore, he pushed him back into the play and made the whole thing happen.\" A \"New York Daily News\" columnist sided with Moore, stating that \"A second look at the play shows Moore holding his own against Wilfork and moving, if anything, mostly forward.\"\n\nNBC, which carried Thanksgiving afternoon games through 1997, did not issue an MVP award during that time. NBC began broadcasting the Thanksgiving prime time game in 2012 (as part of its \"Sunday Night Football\" package), at which point the MVP award was added. The award is currently called the Sunday Night Football on Thanksgiving Night Player of the Game, and is typically awarded to multiple players on the winning team. From 2012 to 2015, the NBC award was referred to as the \"Madden Thanksgiving Player-of-the-Game\", honoring John Madden (who announced NBC games from 2006 to 2008).\n\n\"Sunday Night Football\" ranked the most-watched program in the United States during the 2011–12 season. This feat was repeated during the 2013–14 season; in that case, NBC finished the season as the #1 network among adults aged 18–49 for the first time since 2004 and #2 in total viewership (behind longtime leader CBS).\n\nNBC's broadcast of Super Bowl XLIX at the end of 2014 season became the most-watched program in the history of United States Television, with 114.4 million US viewers, according to Nielsen. The game was the fourth overall telecast to be streamed live online legally in the U.S. both to computers (via NFL.com and NBCSports.com) for the second time and mobile devices (via Verizon Wireless's NFL Mobile app). The game marked Al Michaels ninth time conducting play-by-play for a Super Bowl (Michaels had previously done play-by-play for Super Bowls XXII, XXV, XXIX, XXXIV, XXXVII and XL for ABC and XLIII and XLVI for NBC).\n\nNBC's coverage of Super Bowl LII between the Philadelphia Eagles and New England Patriots at the end of the 2017 season was highlighted be a play that would become known as the \"Philly Special\". On the play, Philadelphia quarterback Nick Foles moved up to behind his offensive line and the ball was directly snapped to running back Corey Clement. Clement went on to pitch the ball to Trey Burton, who passed the ball to a wide open Foles to score a touchdown; Foles thereby became the first player in Super Bowl history to both throw and catch a touchdown. Eagles coach Doug Pederson's decision to attempt to score a touchdown rather than attempt a field goal on the play helped put the Eagles in a better position to defeat the New England Patriots, which they subsequently did, 41–33. The victory was the Eagles' first championship in 57 years. Many analysts have since called the play one of the gutsiest play-calls in Super Bowl history. Before the play was called, Cris Collinsworth expressed his shock on-air that the Eagles would go for it, as he said, \"This is an unbelievable call ... This is like going for an onside kick. This could decide the game.\" The game was the seventh overall telecast to be streamed live online legally in the U.S. both to computers (via NFL.com and NBCSports.com) for the third time and mobile devices (via Verizon Wireless's NFL Mobile app). The game marked Al Michaels tenth time conducting play-by-play for a super bowl (Michaels perviously done play-by-play for Super Bowls XXII, XXV, XXIX, XXXIV, XXXVII and XL for ABC and Three More including XLIII, XLVI and XLIX for NBC.)\n\nIn the between the Eagles and Chicago Bears, Chicago kicker Cody Parkey missed a 43-yard field goal attempt. The ball would hit the left upright, then bounce off the crossbar and fell to the end zone, no-good. Ultimately, the sixth-seeded Eagles won the game over the third-seeded Bears, 16-15 to advance to the divisional playoff round. The term \"Double Doink\" took hold due to Cris Collinsworth, who said on the NBC broadcast while he watched the replay, \"The Bears' season's gonna end on a double doink.\" While Collinsworth is credited with coining the phrase \"Double Doink.\" when asked about it the following day, he said, “I don’t think I invented the word; I think John Madden said doink first. But it was this double dinky thing — the ball bounced off one and then the other.”\n\nOn December 25, 2019, NFL Films allowed two Western New York CBS affiliates owned by Nexstar Media Group, Buffalo's WIVB-TV and Rochester's WROC-TV, to rerun the 1991 AFC Championship Game as a Christmas special, in which the Buffalo Bills defeated the then-Los Angeles Raiders, 51–3. The telecast aired in its original standard definition format, though with NBC News updates regarding the Persian Gulf War and most references to NBC Sports outside natural game action edited out.\n\nOn February 1, 2016, the league announced that NBC had won a partial share of \"Thursday Night Football\" rights for the 2016 season; as a result, five additional Thursday night games (in addition the kickoff and Thanksgiving contests) in the later part of the season had been added to NBC's schedule. NBC Sports was also responsible for producing five games that was exclusive to NFL Network. After the 2017 season, NBC insisted on a reduced rights fee in order to continue carrying \"Thursday Night Football\", which the NFL rejected; Fox was then awarded the rights to \"Thursday Night Football\" for the remainder of the time left on the league's broadcast contracts. NBC will continue to carry the kickoff and Thanksgiving night games on Thursdays.\n\nNBC often mixed their commentator groupings for 2016. Under league contract, Al Michaels and Cris Collinsworth called all of the games in the \"Thursday Night Football\" package that aired on NBC along with most Sunday nights. In general, Michele Tafoya served as sideline reporter for Sunday games and Heather Cox for Thursday games, with both sharing duties through the playoffs. Mike Tirico called play-by-play for secondary games in Weeks 15 and 16, and filled in for Michaels for \"SNF\" assignments in Weeks 11 and 12. The NFL waived its contract requirement for the 2017 season, allowing Mike Tirico to call all games on Thursdays, while Al Michaels remained on Sundays.\n\nSuper Bowl LV will be televised by CBS. Although NBC was to air this game under the current rotation, they traded with CBS for Super Bowl LVI, which falls during the 2022 Winter Olympics and is the first to be scheduled during an ongoing Olympic Games (this also upholds the untold gentleman's agreement between the NFL's broadcasters to not counterprogram the Super Bowl, as NBC also holds the U.S. broadcast rights to the Olympics). CBS will, to an extent, also benefit from holding rights to the Super Bowl in the same year that it holds rights to the NCAA Final Four (which is cycled with WarnerMedia Entertainment channels on a two-year cycle, and CBS had also broadcast in the same year as its previous Super Bowl).\n\nAs of the 2018 season, \"Football Night in America\" is hosted by Liam McHugh, who hosts from the game site, with Mike Tirico emceeing from the Stamford, Connecticut studio. Tony Dungy and Rodney Harrison are studio analysts. \"Sports Illustrated\" reporter Peter King serves as a feature reporter. \"FNIA\" was broadcast from Studio 8G (and then from Studio 8H) from the GE (now Comcast) Building at 30 Rockefeller Plaza in New York City from 2006 to 2013, before production of the program was relocated to Stamford in September 2014, joining all of NBC Sports' other operations and NBCSN.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1942917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942917", "title": "Max Stern (poker player)", "text": "Max Stern (poker player)\n\nDr. Max Stern is a professional poker player, pediatrician and author.\n\nHe is the co-author of \"Championship Stud\", with Tom McEvoy and Linda Johnson. Stern contributed to the sections on Seven-card stud and Seven-card stud (8 or better) tournament and ring game play.\n\nStern is considered to be a Texas hold 'em, Seven Card Stud, and Omaha Hi/lo specialist. He has won three World Series of Poker bracelets. His basic poker philosophy is \"In order to survive, you must be willing to die.\"\n\nMaria Stern is also a World Series of Poker winner, having won a 1997 Stud title, making the Sterns one of two married couples to have won World Series bracelets. Harry and Jeri Thomas are the other.\n\nAs of 2016, his total live tournament winnings exceed $1,487,000. His 28 cashes at the WSOP account for $831,407 of those winnings.\n\n"}
{"id": "1942922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942922", "title": "Frederick Schwatka", "text": "Frederick Schwatka\n\nFrederick Gustavus Schwatka (29 September 1849 – 2 November 1892) was a United States Army lieutenant with degrees in medicine and law and a noted explorer of northern Canada and Alaska.\n\nSchwatka was born in Galena, Illinois the son of Frederick Gustavus Sr. and Amelia (Hukill) Schwatka. His father Frederick G. Sr. (1810-1888) was born in Baltimore, Maryland, the son of August and Catherine (Geissendorfer) Schwatke (the original German spelling with the same pronunciation), German Lutheran immigrants from East Prussia (now eastern Poland) and Bavaria, respectively. His mother Amelia Hukill (1812-1885) was born near Bethany, Brooke County, in present-day West Virginia and was of English and Scots descent. When he was 10 his family moved to Salem, Oregon. Schwatka later worked in Oregon as a printer's apprentice and attended Willamette University. He was appointed to the United States Military Academy at West Point in 1867 and graduated in 1871, serving as a second lieutenant in the Third Cavalry in the Dakota Territory. Studying law and medicine simultaneously, he was admitted to the Bar association of Nebraska in 1875 and received his medical degree from Bellevue Medical College in New York in the same year. In 1876, Lt. Schwatka led the initial cavalry charge at the Battle of Slim Buttes.\n\nIn 1878–80, at the behest of the American Geographical Society he led an expedition to the Canadian Arctic to look for written records thought to have been left on or near King William Island by members of Franklin's lost expedition. Traveling to Hudson Bay on the schooner \"Eothen\", Schwatka's initial team included William Henry Gilder, his second in command; naturalist Heinrich Klutschak, Frank Melms, and Joe Ebierbing, an Inuit interpreter and guide who had assisted explorer Charles Francis Hall in his search for Franklin between 1860 and 1869.\n\nThe group, assisted by other Inuit, went north from Hudson Bay \"with three sledges drawn by over forty dogs, relatively few provisions, but a large quantity of arms and ammunition.\" They interviewed Inuit, visited known or likely sites of Franklin Expedition remains, and found a skeleton of one of the lost Franklin crewmen, identified as Lieutenant John Irving of . Though the expedition failed to find the hoped-for papers, in a speech at a dinner given in Schwatka's honor by the American Geographical Society in 1880, he noted that his expedition had made \"the longest sledge journey ever made both in regard to time and distance\" of eleven months and four days and and that it was the first Arctic expedition on which the whites relied entirely on the same diet as the Inuit.\n\nIn 1883, he was sent to reconnoiter the Yukon River by the US Army. Going over the Chilkoot Pass, his party built rafts and floated down the Yukon River to its mouth in the Bering Sea, naming many geographic features along the way. At more than , it was the longest raft journey that had ever been made. Schwatka's expedition alarmed the Canadian government, which sent an expedition under George Mercer Dawson to explore the Yukon in 1887. After his resignation from the army in 1885, Schwatka led two private expeditions to Alaska financed by William D. Boyce and three to northeastern Mexico and published descriptions of the social customs and the flora and fauna of these regions.\n\nSchwatka received the Roquette Arctic Medal from the Geographical Society of Paris, and a medal from the Imperial Geographical Society of Russia. He was an honorary member of the Geographical Societies of Bremen, Geneva, and Rome.\n\nSchwatka's book-length publications include \"Along Alaska's Great River\" (1885) and \"The Search for Franklin\" (1882), republished in 1965 as \"The Long Arctic Search\".\n\nHe died in Portland, Oregon at the age of 43 in 1892. The \"New York Times\" reported his death as the outcome of an accidental overdose of morphine but the \"Coconino Sun\" of Coconino county (Flagstaff), Arizona listed his death as a suicide by laudanum. Schwatka was buried in Salem, Oregon.\n\nSchwatka Lake in Whitehorse, Yukon, is named after him, as is Mount Schwatka, Alaska. In 2007, an Arctic Sharps rifle commemorating Frederick Schwatka was begun by a group of prominent American gunsmiths. Engraved by Barry Lee Hands, the rifle depicts scenes from the arctic adventures of Schwatka (See \"External Links\" below). Since 1960, the cruise boat the \"MV Schwatka\" has ferried passengers along the Yukon River through Miles Canyon to Schwatka Lake.\n\nFrederick Schwatka was initiated to the Scottish Rite Freemasonry at the St. John's Lodge No. 37, Yreka, California.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1942924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942924", "title": "Randy Galloway", "text": "Randy Galloway\n\nGeorge Randolph \"Randy\" Galloway (born January 19, 1943) is a sports columnist for the \"Ft. Worth Star-Telegram\" and a graduate of Sam Houston State University. Until September 2013, he was the host of \"Galloway and Company\", the drive-time program on KESN 103.3 FM, ESPN Radio's Dallas affiliate and also heard on ESPN Xtra on XM Radio.\n\nPreviously, Galloway has been a columnist for \"The Dallas Morning News\" and a radio host for News/Talk 820 WBAP. In 1998, he left \"The Dallas Morning News\" after 31 years, accepting a 5-year, $1.5 million contract with the \"Ft. Worth Star-Telegram\".\n\nListeners have become accustomed to Galloway's trademark wit and sarcasm as well as his deep Texas drawl.\n\nOn Friday, December 15, 2006, Galloway paid former Dallas Cowboys' quarterback Quincy Carter's $500 bail after Carter was arrested on marijuana charges.\n\nGalloway broadcast his 5,000th show April 11, 2008, celebrated by KESN in a day-long promotion. President George W. Bush called in as a special guest and congratulated Randy, including an invite to the Oval Office.\n\nIn March 2009 Galloway admitted in one of his articles that Buck Showalter told him off the record in 2003 he believed Alex Rodriguez may have been on steroids. Galloway admitted the media should have done more to uncover the baseball steroid scandal.\n\nGalloway lives in Aledo, Texas, with his wife Janeen. They have two daughters together. He enjoys Lone Star Park and used to own horses.\n"}
{"id": "1942926", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942926", "title": "Hōjō Ujinao", "text": "Hōjō Ujinao\n\nHōjō Ujinao (北条 氏直: 1562 – December 19, 1591) was a Japanese \"daimyō\" of the late Sengoku period, and the final head of the Later Hōjō clan. An important figure in the history of Azuchi-Momoyama politics, he lost his entire domain following the siege in 1590. Despite this, he survived, and his family carried on as small daimyo in the Edo period.\n\nBorn in Odawara Castle in 1562, Ujinao was the grandson of Hōjō Ujiyasu, and was first named Kuniōmaru (国王丸). His mother was the daughter of Takeda Shingen. Coming of age in early 1577, he took the formal name Ujinao. Ujinao married Tokuhime, the second daughter of Tokugawa Ieyasu, as a condition for peace between their two clans. In maturity, Ujinao held junior 5th court rank, lower grade (\"ju-go-i-ge\") and the title \"Sakyō-dayu\". \n\nIn 1590, Odawara fell to siege at the hands of Toyotomi Hideyoshi; his father and uncle were forced to commit suicide, but Ujinao was spared because he was Tokugawa Ieyasu's son-in-law. Ujinao and his wife were exiled to Mount Kōya, where he died late the following year.\n\nHis adoptive son, Hōjō Ujimori, was the first daimyo of Sayama-han (Kawachi Province, 10,000 \"koku\").\n"}
{"id": "1942940", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942940", "title": "Dusky-capped flycatcher", "text": "Dusky-capped flycatcher\n\nThe dusky-capped flycatcher (\"Myiarchus tuberculifer\") is a passerine bird in the tyrant flycatcher family. It breeds in forest and other woodland from southern Arizona, as well as the Chisos Mountains, Texas, south to northern Argentina and on Trinidad. It is resident in most of its range, but American breeders retreat to Mexico in winter.\n\nAdult dusky-capped flycatchers are long and weigh . The upperparts are brown, with a blackish head and short crest. The breast is grey and the belly is bright yellow. The brown tail feathers and wings have paler outer webs. The sexes are similar, but young birds have rufous edgings to the wings and tail.\n\nThe dusky-capped flycatcher is best separated from other confusingly similar \"Myiarchus\" species by its smaller size, blackish head, and its call, a sorrowful, descending, whistled \"peeur\" or \"wheeeeeu\".\n\nThis species is insectivorous and catches its prey by flycatching amongst the middle branches of trees. Fruits such as from gumbo-limbo (\"Bursera simaruba\"), and less frequently from \"Cymbopetalum mayanum\" (Annonaceae) are sometimes also eaten, particularly in winter. The nest is built in a tree cavity, and the normal clutch is three brown-marked buff eggs. The young fledge 13 days after hatching.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1942948", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942948", "title": "Edward Coles", "text": "Edward Coles\n\nEdward Coles (December 15, 1786 – July 7, 1868) was a planter and politician, elected as the second Governor of Illinois (1822 to 1826). From an old Virginia family, as a young man Coles was a neighbor and associate of presidents Thomas Jefferson and James Monroe, as well as secretary to President James Madison (1810 to 1815).\n\nAn anti-slavery advocate throughout his adult life, Coles inherited a plantation and slaves but eventually left Virginia for the Illinois Territory in order to set his slaves free. He manumitted 19 slaves in 1819, and acquired land for them. In Illinois, he twice led political campaigns that prevented the legitimization of slavery in the new state. Coles corresponded with and advised both Thomas Jefferson and James Madison to free their slaves. In his final years in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, he helped shape early historians' views of the presidents' republican ideals.\n\nColes was born on December 15, 1786, at Enniscorthy, a plantation in central Virginia's Albemarle County on the Hardware River, a tributary of the James River. He was the youngest male among ten surviving children of John Coles (1745–1808) and Rebecca Tucker (1750–1826). Young Coles' earliest teachers were prominent lawyer Wilson Cary Nicholas and Mr. (probably Rev.) White who lived by Dyer's Store. After a term at Hampden-Sydney College in Hampden-Sydney, Virginia, Coles transferred to the College of William and Mary in Williamsburg, Virginia.\n\nWhile at William and Mary, Coles was strongly influenced by the enlightenment ideals taught by the Rt. Rev. James Madison (first Episcopal Bishop of the Diocese of Virginia and President of the College). The teacher and cleric considered slavery morally indefensible, but a problem without a clear solution. Young Coles determined not to be a slaveholder and not to live where slavery was accepted. However, he kept these views from his father, whose illness (and that of his elder brother) caused Coles to end his formal education in the summer of 1807, for fear that his father would substitute other property for slaves when writing his last will and testament. His bachelor uncles in Norfolk, Travis and John Tucker, had freed slaves when such had become legal in Virginia, and Coles' father John noted that some of the slaves freed by Travis (a devout Methodist) were now living in near starvation. Keeping quiet ensured that Coles would inherit slaves, thus providing him with the opportunity to give freedom.\n\nWhen his father died in 1808, Coles received 12 slaves and a 782-acre plantation on the Rockfish River in Nelson County, Virginia, subject to a mortgage. After John Coles' estate was settled on Christmas Eve, 1808, Edward Coles revealed his emancipation plans to his family, to great consternation. As he sorted through the challenges posed by family resistance and Virginia law (which since 1806 required freed slaves to leave the state within a year, and had also increased restrictions on already free blacks), Coles abandoned his earliest plan to free his slaves in Virginia. He went to Kentucky in the summer of 1809 to investigate a land claim of his uncle Travis Tucker, but came home without plans to move to that new state (which allowed slavery).\n\nColes placed his plantation for sale in December, 1809, despite the collapsed real estate market during the depression of 1807, and began to plan for a move to the Northwest Territory (where slavery had been at least technically abolished in 1787). However, for years he received no reasonable offers, and so continued to operate it through an overseer. Coles turned down offers to exchange his slaves for other property, but honored the requests of his family and neighbors to keep his plans secret from his slaves.\n\nThe Coles family was one of the First Families of Virginia. His great-grandfather, Walter Coles, had been a customs officer in Ireland who moved to what became Richmond, Virginia and made his fortune as a merchant. His grandfather John had been one of the petitioners requesting that Richmond be recognized as a new town, and continued to develop the family's business and social ties through marriage to the youngest daughter of Quaker merchant Isaac Winston. Edward Coles's father John (a/k/a John II) developed Enniscorthy from a hunting camp into a profitable farm, and continued the family's business and social success.\n\nEdward Coles' maternal grandfather was born in Bermuda, and related to Virginia jurist St. George Tucker. His mother's maternal ancestors were among the \"first & most respectable settlers at old Jamestown.\"\n\nEdward's elder brother, Isaac A. Coles, served as private secretary to both Thomas Jefferson and James Madison during their administrations. Thomas Jefferson's Monticello plantation was nearby in Albemarle County. Furthermore, the wife of James Madison, Dolley Payne Todd Madison, was Coles' first cousin, and Coles became a frequent guest at their Montpelier plantation also nearby. James Monroe owned Ash Lawn-Highland plantation on the other side of Green Mountain for 24 years (until forced to sell it in 1825 due to financial problems), and offered young Coles use of his library, although the relationship with this family was more distant since Monroe split his time at Oak Hill plantation in Loudoun County.\n\nIsaac managed and ultimately inherited Enniscorthy, subject to a life estate held by his mother (who died in 1826). His brother Walter had drawn his share of the inheritance early, and managed Woodville plantation for many years before his father's death. John Coles III built a mansion called Estouteville on his inherited portion, and Tucker Coles built Tallwood plantation on the upper acres that he inherited—both married daughters of Sir Peyton Skipwith, the only baronet in Virginia. Their sister Rebecca became the second wife of South Carolina planter Richard Singleton, with whom she had five children. Her sister Elizabeth (Betsy) never married. Mary Coles married Robert Carter and moved to his nearby Redlands plantation. Their sister Emily married Richmond lawyer John Rutherfoord, who owned Tuckahoe plantation in Goochland County and later served as acting governor of Virginia (1841–42). Their son John Coles Rutherfoord witnessed the Civil War's devastation, and his grandson W.A.R. Goodwin became an Episcopal minister and helped found Colonial Williamsburg. Their sister Callie (Sarah) married Andrew Stevenson, who served as Speaker of the United States House of Representatives as well as American minister to the United Kingdom.\n\nSome months after taking office as President, James Madison invited Coles to become his private secretary. His brother Isaac had been performing those duties, as well as delicate courier tasks (particularly with France in the days leading up to the War of 1812). However, Isaac Coles, perhaps inappropriately acting out his earlier military career dreams, beat up Maryland representative Roger Nelson and, after a critical Congressional report concerning the incident, was forced to submit his resignation on December 29, 1809. Neighbor James Monroe (soon to become Secretary of State) convinced Edward Coles to accept that secretarial position, and Coles served from January 1810 to March 1815, despite intervals of ill-health.\n\nColes' term as presidential secretary delayed his plans to free his slaves. However, Coles developed a good relationship with Madison, with whom he would often speak with \"perfect candor\", and formed a lasting admiration for the president. While Madison's secretary, Coles initiated private correspondence with Thomas Jefferson over the issue of slavery, as discussed below. Coles gained political experience as Madison's assistant, served as his primary emissary to Congress, and managed much of the patronage flowing from the 162-employee executive branch. Among other duties, Coles hand-copied the president's official correspondence for the national archives.\n\nColes met John Adams during a tour of north-eastern states in 1811. Along with Benjamin Rush, Coles worked to diminish tensions and rewarm relations between Adams and Thomas Jefferson. Coles also spent considerable time in Philadelphia receiving medical treatment from Dr. Physick, among others, as well as began a long friendship with Nicholas Biddle, who became controversial as a banker and anti-slavery advocate. As the War of 1812 ended, Coles resigned due to continued ill health in February, 1815. \n\nUpon recovering in June, Coles and his 40-year-old mulatto slave and coachman, Ralph Crawford, toured the Northwest Territory in search of land Coles could purchase and develop as a home for himself and a place for the slaves he still proposed to free. Coles wrote letters to President Madison and to relatives expressing dissatisfaction with the high land prices in Ohio, then with squatters, real estate speculators and fraudulent businessmen as he travelled further west into the Indiana (and what became the Illinois) Territory. In the Missouri Territory Coles bought some land for investment, before finally embarking in St. Louis on a keel boat for his trip down the Mississippi River to New Orleans, from where Coles ultimately sailed home to Virginia.\n\nColes was delayed again in fulfilling his covenant with freedom by a diplomatic trip to Russia (1816–1817) at President Madison's request, to resolve a diplomatic incident concerning the Russian consul's arrest in Philadelphia for raping a maid. After successfully completing his mission in St. Petersburg, Coles toured Brussels, Paris and England. While in England, Coles met ambassador John Quincy Adams and social reformer Morris Birkbeck. Coles extolled such enthusiasm about Illinois that Birkbeck bought land, moved and established a settlement. Upon his return, Coles wrote a paper comparing slavery and Russian serfdom, so if an ulterior motive for the diplomatic assignment was dissuading Coles from his manumission plan, it failed. Moreover, Coles wrote about (and long remembered) the pervasive bribery and unethical business practices he encountered in Russia.\n\nIn 1814 Coles wrote a letter to his Albemarle County neighbor Thomas Jefferson, asking the former President to again embark on a campaign of emancipation and publicly work for an end to slavery in Virginia. Jefferson's response has become a signal document in the study of Jefferson's troubling and complex relationship with the institution of slavery. At age 71 and generally retired from politics and because Virginia law did not allow for emancipation of slaves, Jefferson declined Cole's request, advising his young friend and associate to stay in Virginia to help in the long-term demise of slavery. Coles’ disappointment is clear in his return letter of September 26, 1814.\n\nIn the fall of 1817, Coles sold his plantation to his eldest brother Walter, having declined James Monroe's request that he continue as the new President's private secretary. Instead, Coles embarked on a second reconnaissance mission to the Northwest Territories (1818). He bought land in the American Bottom in Illinois Territory. Coles also participated in the Illinois Constitutional Convention at Kaskaskia, Illinois after Indiana became a state. Coles worked with Baptist John Mason Peck, Methodist Peter Cartwright, Quaker James Lemen, and publisher Hooper Warren to successfully oppose a faction that wanted to legitimize slavery in the new territory's constitution.\n\nColes then returned to Virginia, planning to display his deep moral objections to slavery and finally manumit the slaves he inherited from his father after leaving the Commonwealth. In late March 1819, having collected the final payment from Walter, Edward Coles was ready to move to the Illinois Territory. President Monroe had appointed him Register of Lands for the new territory, with an office at Edwardsville.\n\nColes sent his trusted slave (and travel companion during his previous Northwest Territory trips) Ralph Crawford with wagons and 16 other slaves (total 6 adults and 11 children) ahead on the Great Wagon Road north to Pennsylvania. To the derision of many family and friends, Coles had let the slaves ride on ahead, none of them knowing his plans to free them at that time. Coles traveled separately. They met at Brownsville, Pennsylvania, where the party boarded a pair of flatboats and began a water-bound journey: floating on the Monongahela River north to Pittsburgh, then west along the Ohio River toward Illinois. Coles selected a point west of Pittsburgh to announce to his slaves their immediate freedom and also his plan to provide land to each head of a family. Coles captured the scene in an autobiographical piece written some 25 years later. Decades later, the river emancipation became the subject of a mural in the first floor (south hall) of the Illinois State Capitol.\n\nThe Coles party arrived in Edwardsville, early in May 1819, and Coles began his service as Register of Lands. He also completed the manumission process by purchasing land so as to give each freed head of family . Coles also provided employment and other ongoing support for those he had freed. As Register through 1822, Coles mediated and untangled complicated land disputes, thus earning a reputation for fairness and honesty.\n\nColes ran for governor in the election of 1822. To his great surprise, he won the election by a very tight margin, defeating Chief Justice Joseph Phillips (an ally of Judge Jesse Thomas and prominent slavery advocate in his own right who eventually returned to Kentucky), Associate Justice Thomas C. Browne (the eventual candidate of the Ninian Edwards faction) and militia commander James B. Moore. Coles had left Illinois on election day believing he had lost, and received the news of his victory while in Virginia recovering from bilious fever. He accordingly cleared up his land office accounts in Washington, D.C. and returned to Illinois. Madison sent him a package containing a pedometer, and a note, \"As you are about to assume new motives to walk in a straight path, and with measured steps, I wish you to accept the little article enclosed, as a type of the course I am sure you will pursue, and as a token of the affection I have so long cherished for you.\"\n\nColes’ inaugural address included a clear call for the end of slavery in Illinois and revision of the Black Code, as well as advocated internal improvements (especially a canal link to the Great Lakes) and aid to agriculture and education. Slavery was a very important topic at the time, because that first state constitution only permitted current practices using slave labor in the salines (salt evaporation factories) through 1825. A proslavery faction had hoped to eliminate the first constitution's anti-slavery clause and transform Illinois into a slave state like Missouri. Coles’ bold call for an end to slavery stiffened their resolve and led to a rancorous legislative effort which began with the Shaw-Hansen Affair (concerning whether to seat a pro-slavery candidate backed by voters who came from Missouri, or his anti-slavery opponent). Governor Edward Coles led the opposition to a bill approving a referendum to hold another constitutional convention, recognizing it as a dishonest attempt to more clearly legalize slavery in the state. After the bill passed, Coles committed his total pay as governor ($4000) to defeat the referendum, and led a committee of anti-slavery citizens, religious leaders, and legislators (who committed another $1000). The aristocratic, awkward Virginian and his allies then dispelled a plethora of false economic arguments spread by slavery proponents, while in the aftermath of the Panic of 1819 keeping secret their printing help from much-reviled Philadelphians (Nicholas Biddle and Roberts Vaux). The 18-month political struggle used committees in each county as well as traveling preachers.\n\nOn August 2, 1824, Illinois voters rejected the pro-slavery convention referendum (as well as re-elected anti-slavery U.S. representative Daniel Pope Cook). However, by year's end pro-slavery legislators refused to approve Coles' appointment of his anti-slavery friend Morris Birkbeck as secretary of state. Furthermore, lieutenant governor Adolphus Hubbard attempted to wrest the governorship away from Coles during his trip to Virginia in late 1825, causing additional confusion, although Hubbard also lost the gubernatorial election the next year to Ninian Edwards (the state Constitution also included a provision modelled on Virginia's which precluded governors from running for reelection). Finally, a lawsuit that political opponents in Madison County, Illinois brought against Coles for failing to pay a slave tax on his freed slaves years earlier took several more years, including shenanigans by pro-slavery judge Samuel McRoberts, before the Illinois Supreme Court ruled such payment unnecessary. Coles' valedictory speech as governor in December 1826 reminded legislators of his previous speeches urging them to abolish slavery and its remnants (especially heritability) in the new state, as well as to finance a canal to the Great Lakes watershed and a penitentiary.\n\nAfter his term as governor expired, Coles returned briefly to Virginia, where his mother had died that spring. Coles then returned to his farm outside of Edwardsville. He focused on agricultural and business pursuits, between continued trips to Virginia and Philadelphia to visit family and friends and to search for a wife. His friend Daniel Pope Cook was defeated by a proslavery opponent in 1826, and legislators had selected their pro-slavery speaker John McLean to fill unexpired U.S. Senate terms in 1824 and 1829 (voters ultimately electing Elias Kent Kane and John McCracken Robinson to those seats). Coles made his last run for public office in 1831. As candidate for Congress, running against eight candidates including pro-slavery Democrats Joseph Duncan (allied with Treasury Secretary William H. Crawford) and Sidney Breese (a Jacksonian Democrat), Coles polled a distant third. He had been out of public view for some years, and refused to align himself with any political party. Instead, Coles campaigned on his successful term as governor, proclaimed his association with the founding fathers, and criticized the Jacksonian platform. Still, Coles felt devastated by the political defeat, and moved back east. Nonetheless, in 1835, Illinois legislators authorized Coles to sell bonds to finance his canal project, but since they also refused to back the bonds with state credit, sales proved slow.\n\nWorried about his unmarried status and increasing partisanship, Coles decided to leave Illinois shortly after his election loss. He made another trip to Virginia, which was involved in its own debate over slavery after Nat Turner's rebellion. After Turner's execution, Coles wrote Thomas Jefferson Randolph urging emancipation and colonization to prevent further disasters, stressing that slavery restricted Virginia's economic development. At year's end, while visiting James and Dolley Madison at Montpelier, Madison confided in Coles his wish to manumit his own slaves and asked Coles about his experiences as he tried to find the right way to accomplish this while still providing for Dolley as his widow. However, Madison died in 1836 without freeing any of his slaves which were left in a will to his wife Dolley.\n\nColes moved to Philadelphia in 1832, gratified by its active social and intellectual life, as well as slavery's absence. At age 46, Coles married prominent socialite Sally Logan Roberts (1809 to 1883) on November 28, 1833. The couple had three children: Mary Coles, Edward Coles, Jr., and Roberts Coles. Sally Coles inherited significant property upon her father's death, but it (and much of Coles' own fortune) was devastated by the Panic of 1837. Furthermore, his family's renovated Enniscorthy plantation burned down in 1839, and his elder brother Isaac only survived the disasters by two years. Coles's last public appointment was in 1841, when he served on a committee investigating the U.S. Bank, which ultimately led to the resignation of his friend Nicholas Biddle. Coles unsuccessfully sought political appointments from his Virginia classmates who had become high federal officials, John Tyler and Winfield Scott. Still, rental income from real estate investments (widely spread geographically) kept the growing family financially comfortable. Coles and his young family travelled often to visit his extended family and properties in Virginia and Washington, D.C., as well as Illinois and later Schooley's Mountain, New Jersey.\n\nHowever, Coles never resumed his political career, uncomfortable with the new party system. Nonetheless, he rejoiced when Abraham Lincoln, whom he remembered as a young Illinois lawyer, was elected President. The elderly ex-governor briefly met the newly elected president on his journey to Washington. Coles had also publicly taken exception to Senator Stephen A. Douglas' characterization of slavery's history in Illinois during the Kansas-Nebraska debate of 1854.\n\nColes turned to history during his later years. He was recognized as one of the few remaining men with close personal knowledge of both Madison and Jefferson, and burnished their reputations as champions of the republican ideals that had also motivated Coles during his entire life. Coles had lobbied both Jefferson and Madison (and later Thomas Jefferson Randolph) to free their slaves. Coles was surprised when Madison failed to do so, only later learning that lawyer Robert Taylor had persuaded the former President to leave emancipation instructions for his widow, whose father had gone bankrupt after freeing his slaves many years earlier. Dolley, with other personal economic priorities (especially a son addicted to gambling), freed no slaves upon her death in 1849. Coles also wrote about the Northwest Ordinance. However, most of Coles' own papers from Illinois were destroyed in a fire in 1852 while his friend John Mason Peck was writing a history of the new state. Coles also assisted Virginia historians William Cabell Rives and Hugh Blair Grigsby, and New Yorker Henry S. Randall.\nTo his father's great disappointment, Roberts Coles returned to Virginia in 1860, where he became a slaveowner (buying a plantation from a relative) and engaged to Jennie Fairfax of Richmond. After the Civil War began, he enlisted in the Green Mountain Greys and was elected captain. Roberts Coles died (as did the other Confederate captain) during the Battle of Roanoke Island, February 8, 1862.\n\nColes died, aged eighty one years, in his home (1303 Spruce Street in Philadelphia) on July 7, 1868. While devastated by his younger son's death fighting for the Confederates, Coles lived to see slavery abolished through President Lincoln's issuing the Emancipation Proclamation as well as ratification of the Thirteenth Amendment. Coles also lived to see his elder son and namesake, Edward Coles, Jr., marry Elizabeth (Bessie) Mason Campbell, relative of anti-slavery founding father George Mason (descendant of his younger brother Thomson Mason) on February 25, 1868. Edward Coles Jr. became a prominent lawyer in Philadelphia, and a long-time vestry member of Christ Church, which still displays a plaque honoring his service on the south wall inside the nave.\n\nThe Coles family grave at Woodlands Cemetery in west Philadelphia includes the final resting places of the former governor, his wife Sally, as well as their three children. His daughter Mary Coles (who never married) and Caroline Sanford founded the Church Training school for Deaconesses in Philadelphia in 1891, and served as its president as well as a faculty member. The school generally graduated 7 to 10 pupils per year (the highest number in residence was 30 in 1912-13), which were in great demand and served not only in hospitals and parishes in Pennsylvania, but throughout the United States and missions abroad. In 1895 Mary Coles secured the re-interment of her brother Roberts from the family cemetery at Enniscorthy. Edward Jr. and Bessie Coles were also buried at the new family gravesite.\n\nColes was among the very few slaveholders who manumitted his slaves entirely as a testament to the republican ethos that was at the heart of the American Revolution and enlightenment. He is also noteworthy for his attempts to pressure Thomas Jefferson and Thomas Jefferson Randolph to work to end of slavery in Virginia and for James Madison to free his slaves.\n\nColes County, Illinois was named for him, and more recently an elementary school on the south side of Chicago. During his lifetime, the Illinois legislature named the county seat of then-huge Pike County, Coles Grove, but the town disappeared and its physical location may now be in Calhoun County.\n\nThe Governor Coles State Memorial is located in Edwardsville, Illinois. The Illinois Human Rights Commission also offers a scholarship to law students in honor of the former Governor.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1942950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942950", "title": "Thomas Carlin", "text": "Thomas Carlin\n\nThomas Carlin (July 18, 1789 – February 14, 1852), a farmer, soldier and Jacksonian Democrat, was the seventh Governor of Illinois (from 1838 to 1842) and also served in both houses of the Illinois General Assembly. He became the first Democrat nominated at an Illinois state convention, as well as the last Illinois governor who fought Native Americans. His gubernatorial term was noted for its inconsistency, as he had limited financial experience and the state suffered the aftereffects of the Panic of 1837 as well attempted to fund a costly Internal Improvements Act passed by the state legislature over his predecessor's objections.\n\nBorn around 1789 in Shelbyville, Kentucky (now a suburb of Frankfort) to Thomas Carlin and his wife, the former Elizabeth Evans, Carlin moved with his family to Missouri Territory in 1803. His father died in 1810, leaving his widow to raise seven children (of whom Thomas was the eldest). In 1812, Carlin crossed the Missouri River to Illinois Territory to serve as a mounted ranger in the War of 1812 (including on future governor Ninian Edwards' Peoria expedition), then established a farm in what was then Madison County, Illinois.\n\nIn 1814, in Edwardsville, Carlin married Georgia-born Rebecca Huitt (August 27, 1799 - September 5, 1865). Their 13 children (seven of whom survived their father) included: Mary Ann (b.1816); Eugene (b. 1817); William H. (b. 1818); Nathaniel (b. 1819); Elizabeth (1820-1823); Emily St. Aubert (b. 1821); John Massingill (b. 1829); Julia (b. 1830); Andrew Jackson (1832-after 1880), John Clark Carlin (1832-1865); Eugenia Carlin Woodward (1838-1886); and Thomas B. Carlin Jr. (1842-after 1880). In 1850, the Carlin family included his 90-year-old mother-in-law, three sons and two daughters as well as a 21 year old farm laborer, but no slaves.\n\nCarlin built a log cabin across from the mouth of the Missouri River and operated a ferry until 1818, when Illinois became a state. Between 1819 and 1821, Carlin helped organize the frontier in what became Greene County, Illinois. Despite not learning to read nor write as a child, he helped lay out what became the county seat in 1821, Carrollton. Carlin was one of the first five commissioners (as was his brother-in-law John Huitt) and donated a large parcel of land for Carrollton, although he abstained from the vote designating it the county seat. Noted for his physical prowess and skill as a woodsman and rider as well as courage, Carlin served as Greene County's first sheriff, then twice won election to the Illinois Senate. He was instrumental in obtaining passage of a bill in January 1829 creating Macoupin County.\n\nDuring the Black Hawk War, Carlin was captain of Greene County's militia companies. In 1834 he received an appointment as collector of federal funds at the land office at Quincy, Illinois, where Carlin would continue to live during his gubernatorial term. In 1838, the Democrats' first choice for governor, James W. Stephenson (of the then-boom town of Galena, Illinois) withdrew as candidate when his accounts were discovered delinquent, and the 1838 Illinois Democratic convention nominated Carlin as the party's candidate. As a Jacksonian Democrat as well as Indian fighter, Carlin supported the President's campaign against the national bank (which scholars now agree contributed to the Panic of 1837 which devastated Illinois' economy) and argued that strict compliance with state charter requirements would profit the young state. Carlin opposed monopolies and wanted the state to own and operate all railroads. During the 1838 gubernatorial election, his opponent, Whig Cyrus Edwards (of Alton, Illinois and youngest brother of Ninian Edwards) favored internal improvements.\n\nIn 1837, Illinois' legislature had approved moving the state capital from Vandalia to Springfield, despite the opposition of Governor Joseph Duncan, a former Jacksonian Democrat who had split with the President and won election as a Whig. The state government offices were constructed and the move occurred midway during Governor Carlin's term. Carlin's inaugural message blamed the Whig-controlled state bank and the Bank of Illinois at Shawneetown for Illinois' financial distress, which added to hardships encountered by frontier farmers. His predecessor, Governor Duncan, had urged Carlin to scrap the large Internal Improvements Act passed by the legislature in 1837, but Carlin tried to make a go of it, despite the large amount of money required and his lack of financial experience. He appointed former governor John Reynolds to try to sell bonds in Europe, since the Illinois and Michigan Canal from Chicago to the Illinois River (which crossed Greene County near Carrollton) required at least $1 million in financing. The two deals Reynolds arranged were on unfavorable terms to the state, and it lost more than $150,000. One of the parties to a contract, Wright and Company (London bankers) went bankrupt while Governor Carlin vacillated on approving the contract. Illinois ultimately sold bonds with a face value of $804,000 for $261,500, which proved a source of political controversy for many years, and which led to suspension of canal construction in 1842. Legislators also wanted the state to purchase an additional $3 million in bank stock, arguing that its dividends would fund the internal improvements, but Carlin warned it would not work, and the Senate Committee on Banks defeated the proposal. The substitute, a one-mill property tax to pay the bond interest, proved inadequate. Carlin begged Congress to donate more land to construct the Illinois and Michigan Canal, and also recommended that the state legislature repeal the charters of the state and Shawneetown banks, as occurred during the administration of his successor, Thomas Ford. Despite his federal land office background, Carlin refused to accept any funds from federal land sales, and also ordered that settlers must pay with gold or silver despite the liquidity crisis, which exacerbated the crisis.\nAnother controversy which began during Carlin's term and erupted in his successor's term involved the Mormons. Illinois politicians of both parties had welcomed Joseph Smith and fellow Mormons when the fled Missouri. Carlin signed a charter which gave Smith and his associates governmental power in Nauvoo, Illinois. Later, Carlin received Missouri warrants requesting Smith's extradition to Missouri, and Smith was arrested not long after leaving the governor's home.\n\nAfter his term ended, Carlin returned to his farm between Maucoupin and Apple Creeks in Greene County, but continued politically active. In 1844 he ran for Congress, but lost to future U.S. Senator Stephen A. Douglas (who thus began his national political career). Two years later, Carlin threatened to run again against Douglas, but ultimately chose against it. In 1849, Carlin served an unexpired term in the Illinois House of Representatives when Jacob Fry resigned.\n\nCarlin died in 1852 at home in Carrollton, Illinois, survived by his widow and seven of their children. His nephew William Passmore Carlin became a career U.S. Army officer, and Brigadier General of Illinois volunteers during the American Civil War, and later served as assistant director of the Freedman's Bureau in Tennessee, although his uncle was pro-slavery and Negro-hating, according to a long-lived Edwardsville judge.\n\nThe city of Carlinville, Illinois is named in his honor. Illinois erected a historical marker in Carrollton to honor the pioneer governor. The Carrollton Courthouse Square Historic Districtin Greene County is thus on land formerly owned by Governor Carlin, although only eight buildings (including a tavern, hotel, stores and a temperance hall) and a residence converted into the county historical society remain from those built during his lifetime (the historic courthouse dating from 1891).\n\n"}
{"id": "1942952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942952", "title": "Joel Aldrich Matteson", "text": "Joel Aldrich Matteson\n\nJoel Aldrich Matteson (August 8, 1808 – January 31, 1873) was the tenth Governor of Illinois, serving from 1853 to 1857. In 1855, he became the first governor to reside in the Illinois Executive Mansion. After his term as governor ended he was for many years the president of the Chicago and Alton Railroad. \n\nThe last years of his life were marred by charges of corruption in the Canal Scrip Fraud case. The village of Matteson, Illinois is named in his honor. Matteson was buried in Joliet, Illinois.\n\n"}
{"id": "1942956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942956", "title": "John Lourie Beveridge", "text": "John Lourie Beveridge\n\nJohn Lourie Beveridge (July 6, 1824 – May 3, 1910) was the 16th Governor of Illinois, serving from 1873 to 1877. He succeeded the recently elected Richard J. Oglesby, who resigned to accept a Senate seat. Beveridge previously served in the Army during the American Civil War, becoming colonel of the 17th Illinois Cavalry in 1864. He was brevetted to brigadier general in March 1865.\n\nJohn Lourie Beveridge was born in Greenwich, New York on July 6, 1824. In 1842, he moved with his family to DeKalb County, Illinois. Beveridge attended Granville Academy for one term and then studied at Rock River Seminary. After his schooling, he moved to Tennessee and taught school. In 1851, he returned to Illinois to study law in Sycamore. Three years later he moved to Evanston and begun to practice law in Chicago. He formed a partnership with John F. Farnsworth until the Civil War.\n\nVolunteering for the civil war; Beveridge initially served as an officer with Farnsworth in the 8th Regiment Illinois Volunteer Cavalry. With the unit he fought at Fredericksburg, Chancellorsville and Gettysburg, commanding it at the latter. In November 1863, he received approval to raise his own regiment, the 17th Illinois Volunteer Cavalry, and was elevated to the rank of colonel. The unit saw service in Missouri. He was brevetted to Brigadier General in March 1865 and mustered out on February 6, 1866.\n\nUpon returning home, Beveridge was elected to serve as Cook County Sheriff. In 1870, Beveridge was elected to the Illinois Senate as a Republican. The next year, Beveridge was elected to fill the vacancy in the United States House of Representatives caused by the resignation of John A. Logan. He served in this role for only a year as well, resigning to accept his election as Lieutenant Governor of Illinois. The next year, upon the resignation of Richard J. Oglesby, Beveridge became Governor of Illinois.\n\nThe governorship of Beveridge saw the economic downturn from the Long Depression. The farmers' movement prompted the formation of the Anti-Monopolist Party, later known as the Greenback Party, which opposed Beveridge's Republicans. Midterm elections in 1874 saw several Greenbacks (with Democratic support) elected to state offices, including Lieutenant Governor Archibald Glenn. The governorship also saw the Revision of 1874, a rewording of the Constitution of Illinois. Beveridge appointed the leadership roles for the Illinois exhibits for the Centennial Exposition. He also approved the Illinois School for the Deaf, Illinois School for the Blind, Illinois Eastern Hospital for the Insane and restorations of the Northern Illinois Hospital and Asylum for the Insane, Illinois Central Hospital for the Insane, Illinois Soldiers' Orphans' Home and Anna State Hospital.\n\nAfter his term expired, Beveridge was named Assistant United States Treasurer at Chicago by President Chester A. Arthur. Beveridge moved to Hollywood, California, in 1895, where he remained until his death of May 3, 1910. He was interred in Rosehill Cemetery in Chicago. He was the grandfather of sculptor Kuhne Beveridge.\n"}
{"id": "1942959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942959", "title": "John Marshall Hamilton", "text": "John Marshall Hamilton\n\nJohn Marshall Hamilton (May 28, 1847 – September 22, 1905) was the 18th Governor of Illinois, serving from 1883 to 1885. Born in Union County, Ohio, Hamilton became interested in politics at a young age, joining the Wide Awakes when he was thirteen and the Union Army four years later. After graduating from Ohio Wesleyan University he studied law and was admitted to the bar. A notable attorney in Bloomington, Illinois, Hamilton was elected to the Illinois Senate in 1876. He served there until 1881, when he was elected Lieutenant Governor of Illinois on a ticket with Shelby Moore Cullom. When Cullom resigned after election to the United States Senate, Hamilton became Governor of Illinois. He was not selected as a candidate for re-election, but did serve that year as a delegate to the 1884 Republican National Convention. He spent the rest of his life as an attorney in Chicago, where he died in 1905.\n\nJohn Marshall Hamilton was born in Union County, Ohio near Richwood on May 28, 1847. He moved with his family to Roberts Township, Marshall County, Illinois when he was seven years old. Hamilton first became involved with politics at a young age, joining the Republican Wide Awakes in 1861 at the age of thirteen. Hamilton's unit was called into action as the 77th Illinois Volunteer Infantry Regiment, but Hamilton could not serve because of his young age. Hamilton studied at a school in Henry in the meantime. In 1864, when Hamilton was seventeen years old, he enlisted in the 141st Illinois Volunteer Infantry Regiment during the U.S. Civil War.\n\nAfter his unit was mustered out, he attended Ohio Wesleyan University. He became a teacher in Henry, but was forced to resign after only a year due to poor health. While recovering, Hamilton studied law in his free time. Seeking a place to study law, he turned to Bloomington, Illinois. Hamilton took a temporary position as Professor of Latin at Illinois Wesleyan University. While there, Hamilton studied law with Weldon, Tipton & Benjamin and was admitted to the bar in 1870. He married Helen Williams in 1871. Hamilton served for several years as an attorney in Bloomington in a practice with J. H. Rowell until he was elected to the Illinois Senate as a Republican in 1876.\n\nHamilton was elected Lieutenant Governor of Illinois in 1881, serving under Shelby Moore Cullom. At the time, the Lieutenant Governor was also the President of the Illinois Senate. In 1882, Cullom was elected to the United States Senate and vacated his position as Governor of Illinois the following year. Hamilton became the 18th Governor of the state. His brief governorship is best known for the decision requiring compulsory education for Illinois children. Hamilton also signed the Harper High License Law that mandated a license for institutions serving liquor. In 1883, Hamilton sent the Illinois National Guard to quell protests at mines in Madison and St. Clair Counties.\n\nIn 1884, Hamilton was selected as a candidate for reelection at the Republican State Convention in Peoria, Illinois. However, the delegation settled on Richard J. Oglesby, who was later elected to serve a third non-consecutive term. Despite this, Hamilton was unanimously elected by the convention as one of the four state delegates to the 1884 Republican National Convention. He first supported former U.S. Senator from Illinois John A. Logan as a presidential candidate, voting for him in the first three ballots. However, after Logan sent a telegram to the convention declining the nomination, Hamilton supported incumbent President Chester A. Arthur. After James G. Blaine was selected as the presidential candidate, Hamilton successfully rallied support for Logan as the vice presidential candidate. The ticket later lost to Grover Cleveland.\n\nHamilton spent the rest of his life as a lawyer in Chicago. He died there on September 22, 1905 and was buried in Oak Woods Cemetery. His 1872 house in Bloomington, Illinois, was recognized with a listing on the National Register of Historic Places on September 6, 1978.\n\n"}
{"id": "1942966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942966", "title": "Midtown, Memphis", "text": "Midtown, Memphis\n\nMidtown Memphis, Tennessee is a collection of neighborhoods to the east of Downtown.\n\nMidtown is home to many cultural attractions, institutions of higher education, and noteworthy pieces of architecture. The district is an anchor in Memphis' arts scene, including the Playhouse on the Square, the Hattiloo Theater, the Brooks Museum of Art, the Memphis College of Art, and the Levitt Shell. The annual Cooper-Young Arts Festival draws over 120,000 visitors to the district. Midtown also plays host to multiple universities and colleges, including Memphis College of Art, Rhodes College, and Christian Brothers University.\n\nMidtown is characterized by vintage residential housing, a blend of independent and chain retailers, and high-rise buildings. Multiple historic districts are located in Midtown, and commercial corridors such as Overton Square and Cooper Street developed before World War II in an urban style. Mixed use areas with housing, religious, commercial and office spaces are common in Midtown.\n\nMidtown is known in the Memphis region for its bumper stickers displaying \"Midtown is Memphis\" and \"38104,\" referencing the zip code that covers a large portion of the area.\n\nMidtown has an evenly distributed black and white population, as well as a notable Asian population. Cleveland Street in Crosstown is the heart of the Vietnamese population in Memphis, with multiple Vietnamese-owned businesses and a Buddhist temple.\n\nThe exact boundaries of Midtown are often disputed. Generally, it is the area between the Medical District to the west and East Memphis to the east. The eastern boundary is variously defined as East Parkway, the CN railroad east of East Parkway. The northern boundary is Vollintine Avenue. VECA is generally considered the northern-most neighborhood in Midtown. Cooper-Young and Rozelle are generally regarded as the southern-most neighborhoods in Midtown. Interstate 240 provides the western border for the neighborhood, separating Midtown from Downtown and the Medical District.\n\nDue to the historic eastward expansion of the city, automobile traffic in Midtown is primarily served by east-west arteries. Major traffic corridors in the district include:\n\nMidtown Memphis is connected to the Medical District and downtown via the Madison Avenue trolley line, with a park and ride station at Cleveland Street. Historically, Madison Avenue was the location of the \"Dummy Line\", the main east-west streetcar line that went from downtown to the Mid-South Fairgrounds (east along Madison, south down Cooper, and east along Young), and many commercial and residential structures along the avenue date to the beginning of the twentieth century. Most of this stretch of Madison contains its original granite curbs, and in a few locations the original brick pavers can be seen in the gutters.\n\nBicycle infrastructure is growing in Midtown, with bike lanes now installed on McLean Boulevard, Madison Avenue, Southern Avenue, and Cooper Street. Protected bike lanes have been installed on portions of Overton Park Avenue. Additionally, the Hampline is a two-way bicycle track that will connect Overton Park to Shelby Farms in suburban Memphis via the Shelby Farms Greenline.\n\n\nMidtown public schools include Snowden Elementary, Idlewild Elementary, Rozelle Elementary, Peabody Elementary, Bellevue Middle, Fairview Middle, and Central High School, some of which offer optional programs. Several private and parochial schools are also found throughout Midtown, including Grace-St. Luke's Episcopal School, Immaculate Conception Cathedral School and Memphis Catholic High School. The 1st Class Montessori School has operated for over twenty years on Peabody Avenue in Midtown.\n\nMidtown is home to two private undergraduate universities. Rhodes College is a classical liberal arts college housing roughly two thousand students in the Vollintine-Evergreen neighborhood. Christian Brothers University is located adjacent to the Lenox neighborhood on East Parkway.\n\nSeveral specialized colleges and schools are also located in Midtown. The Memphis Theological Seminary is located on East Parkway, in the East End neighborhood. Overton Park is home to the Memphis College of Art, which moved to its current location from Victorian Village in the 1960s. The Southern College of Optometry and Moore Tech, a small vocational college, are located in the Crosstown area.\n\nSeveral other institutions of learning are located nearby. The historically-black LeMoyne-Owen College operates in Soulsville, a neighborhood to the south of Midtown. The Memphis Medical District to the west includes University of Tennessee Health Science Center's Medical, Pharmacy, Nursing and Dentistry schools; Methodist Hospital Schools of Radiologic Sciences and Nursing; and the Baptist College of Health Sciences.\n\nMidtown contains Overton Park which includes the Memphis Brooks Museum of Art, the Memphis Zoo, and the Memphis College of Art. It is also known for its bars and restaurants, many of them featuring live music at night. Located in the Cooper-Young neighborhood are coffeehouses, restaurants, and bars. Located in Midtown Memphis is also a movie theatre, \"Studio On The Square\", and the city's only professional theatre troupe, \"Playhouse on the Square\", which currently runs three separate theatres. Grace-St. Luke's Tiffany windows are thought to be the largest collection of Tiffany windows in a parish church in the South. Central Gardens is a historic neighborhood in Midtown.\n\nTennessee Williams wrote his first publicly performed play, \"Cairo, Shanghai, Bombay!\" while staying in the Midtown home of his grandparents: 1917 Snowden Ave. It was first performed in 1935 at 1780 Glenview, also in Midtown.\n\nThe Cooper-Young Festival is also held annually at the intersection of Cooper and Young, in Midtown. Another area, Overton Square, holds a St. Patrick's Day celebration.\n\nMidtown was also home to the Mid-South Fair for 152 years. However, the year 2008 was the last year that the Mid-South Fair was held in Memphis. Starting in 2009, the Mid-South Fair was held on newly acquired land at Tunica, Mississippi.\n"}
{"id": "1942969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942969", "title": "Hudson University", "text": "Hudson University\n\nHudson University is a fictional university appearing in American comic books published by the DC Comics. The name is also used as a fictional university depicted in \"Law & Order\" and its spin-offs, and less frequently in many other television series. It is generally described as being near New York City, which sits alongside the Hudson River.\n\nTed hopes to play basketball at Hudson University. Season 5, Episode 11.\n\nHudson University is the location of an active shooter case in the NBC drama \"Blindspot\" in Season 1, Episode 19.\n\nHudson University was mentioned in the CBS drama \"Blue Bloods\" in Season 2, Episode 14 when three protesters were arrested for assault on a police officer and also in Season 4, Episode 19 after an English professor was found murdered. It was also mentioned in Season 1, Episode 13 and Season 5, Episode 8.\n\nHudson University is used in ABC's \"Castle\" starring Nathan Fillion in the episodes \"The Mistress Always Spanks Twice\", in which the victim was a student at the fictional school; and \"A Deadly Game\", in which the police encounter Ukrainian exchange students at Hudson who have bought counterfeit IDs. The school appears again in the episode \"Close Encounters of the Murderous Kind\", as the location of an altitude chamber. The school was mentioned in the episodes \"Head Case\" and \"Dial M for Mayor\" as the employer of the episodes' victims. It is alluded to in \"The Fast and the Furriest\" as the school of the victim, an evolutionary biology major who was killed while supposedly tracking Bigfoot. In \"Time Will Tell\", the target of an assassin who may or may not have been from the future was a physics student at Hudson. In the episode \"PhDead\", Castle became a guest lecturer at Hudson University to solve a student's gruesome murder. In the episode \"In Plane Sight\" a student with alleged links to ISIS who is on the No Fly List and suspected of killing an air marshall, is referenced to be a student at Hudson University.\n\nHudson University is used in the NBC sitcom \"The Cosby Show\" as the medical school Cliff Huxtable attended.\nThis is mostly true... Dr. Huxtable was said to have attended Hillman College for undergraduate studies. He later went on to Hudson University for medical school as discussed in Season 1, Ep. 6 \"Breaking with Tradition.\"\n\nHudson University is used in the Canadian teenage drama \"\". One of the main characters, Jimmy Brooks, receives acceptance to the university's Law program.\n\nOver the years, Hudson University has seen several detectives visit its campus in search of suspects and witnesses, especially in cases that involve college students and professors. By using a fictional school rather than a real college, the writers of \"Law & Order\" are able to weave the university into several narratives without the fear of misrepresenting the rate of crime at one of New York's actual institutions of higher learning.\n\nHudson University is a composite of several colleges and universities located in New York including Columbia University, Barnard College, Pratt Institute, Brooklyn College, College of Mount Saint Vincent, Hunter College, Lehman College, New York University, City College of New York, Queens College, Union Theological Seminary, General Theological Seminary, Pace University, Fordham University and LIU Post, all of which have been used as filming locations. For filming purposes, NYU is one of the least used locations in the series due to the high cost of filming in the university's buildings and surrounding area (one of Lennie Briscoe's daughters, Julia, was once said to be a film student at NYU, but the show never filmed there). An episode showed Hudson University on a map of New York City where the real life Yeshiva University is located, and a Season 20 episode, \"Innocence\", depicted a fictional \"Hudson Innocence Project\" modeled on the real life Innocence Project at the Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law at Yeshiva University. That same episode also identified Executive Assistant District Attorney Michael Cutter as a graduate of Hudson's law school, making him the first \"Law & Order\" prosecutor to have graduated from a fictional law school. Another episode gave an address of 504 Riverside Drive, which is near International House of New York in Morningside Heights and far from Yeshiva. In the Season 8 episode \"Tabloid\", the address for Hudson University Law School is given as 62 Centre Street, which would be right next door to the New York County Courthouse, the location of many of the trials depicted in the show.\n\nIn \"\", Detective Elliot Stabler's daughters Maureen and Kathleen are students at Hudson University. The seal of the university is visible in the background during a scene in the season 12 episode \"Gray\", indicating that the university was established in 1876. In the season 16 episode \"Devastating Story\", Olivia Benson makes an in-joke about Hudson's high crime rate, informing her son Noah (who is still an infant) that he is never to attend. It is also mentioned in Season 13, Episode 15 and Season 18, Episode 3. It also appears in Season 19, episodes 12 and 15.\n\n\"The Secret Life of the American Teenager\", which takes place in Valley Glen, California, depicts a Hudson University in New York, to which two of its main characters, Amy Juergens and Ben Boykewich, have been accepted.\n\nHudson University was used on the CBS drama \"Unforgettable\" in the episode \"Day of the Jackie\", in the episode \"Till Death\", with scenes set in the campus bookstore and Dean's office, and once again in \"Breathing Space\".\n\nHudson University was used in \"The Flash\" episode \"Revenge of the Rogues\", where it was the location of the creation of the F.I.R.E.S.T.O.R.M. project. It appeared in the episode \"All Star Team Up\", where it was the site of the murder of an engineering professor named Lindsay Kang at the hands of robotic bees controlled by Brie Larvan.\n\nHudson University was used in \"DC's Legends of Tomorrow (2016 TV series)\" episode \"Freaks and Geeks\", Waverider's crew goes to Hudson University to find and get the ancient cup.\n\nIn \"Murder, She Wrote\" Season 8 (1991-1992) Angela Lansbury as Jessica Fletcher heads off to New York to teach a criminology class at the fictional Hudson University. In episode 2 of Season 8 \"Night Fears\" Jessica is challenged by another professor to a contest to see who can solve a string of crimes taking place on the Hudson University campus.\n\nIn this CW television show, Hudson University is the fictional location in which J.T. Forbes works as a bio-chemical professor. The school logo is seen in episode 5 of Season 1 when J.T. was taking technological items from school campus.\n\nOn Season 2, Episode 8 of \"The Mysteries of Laura\", \"The Mystery of the Ghost in the Machine,\" Hudson University is the college the suspect in the case attends. Detective Laura Diamond recognizes the colors Blue and Gold in the background of a computer screen shot of his dorm room as the school's colors.\n\nIn episode 11 of season 1, a high school student having an affair with his English teacher is described by his parents as having been a wonderful son and student, including \"[getting] a full ride at Hudson University\".\n\nIn episode 3 of Season 1, a Hudson University student stands trial for the murder of the star athlete she had accused of rape three years earlier. Hudson University was also mentioned in episode 4 as the site of a clinical trial study related to a pharmaceutical patent trial.\n\nOn episode 14 of season 4, a heart surgeon is arrested because his father allegedly paid $125,000 the admissions office at Hudson University.\n\nIn episode 13 of Season 5, the victim failed out of law school at Hudson University.\n\nIn the popular Netflix show, flashbacks reveal that Hannah Baker, a teenager that commits suicide, looked at Hudson University as a potential college opportunity in episode 8 of season 1.\n\nIn season 3 episode 2 Kimmy is visiting prospective universities. While going through her collected brochures, she mentions Hudson University as a possible choice. The brochure features stock images of crime scenes, referencing the fictional schools' purportedly high crime rate. In the corner of the brochure there is a starburst saying, \"As seen on \"Law and Order: SVU\". \"SVU\" often references crimes among students occurring at Hudson University.\n\nIn episode 2 of season 1, Hudson University is mentioned at a bar by a graduate student who claims to be teaching there. Unlike on most shows, it is said to be located not in New York but in Williamsburg, Virginia, and is loosely based on the College of William & Mary. (The SEAL Team members on the show, like those in real life, live and work in nearby Virginia Beach when not on missions.)\n\nIn season 3 episode 5 uranium is stolen from a nuclear lab on Hudson University’s campus.\n\nIn episode 5, season 3 of the Netflix series, a scene where the top level heads of the ATLAS organization meet at a funeral being held at Hudson University.\n\nIn episode one of the HBO series, the main character, Naz Khan, tells an officer that he is a student at Hudson University.\n\nHudson University is a fictional location in the DC Universe. It was first mentioned in \"Batman\" comics in the late 1940s. Like many fictional locations in the comics, Hudson University's corresponding location in the real world is never made clear. According to the \"Atlas of the DC Universe\" (published by Mayfair Games), it is located in the fictional city of New Carthage, New York.\n\nNotable former students at Hudson University include Dick Grayson/Robin (who only attended for one semester), Professor Martin Stein, Crystal Frost, Louise Lincoln, and Duela Dent. The father of Amy Winston was a professor of English at Hudson.\n\nIn \"New Adventures of Superboy\" #51 (1984), a teenaged Clark Kent is shown pondering whether to accept an offer to attend Hudson University, but eventually chooses Metropolis University in Metropolis instead.\n"}
{"id": "1942980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942980", "title": "Sariaya", "text": "Sariaya\n\n', officially the ', (), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nAs the only Mount Banahaw town in both Quezon and Laguna Provinces that has a sea coast, the town is famous for its pristine beach resorts and nature-trekking activities that lead adventurous hikers to the peak of mythical Mount Banahaw. With more than a hundred of cultural properties and ancestral houses mostly built in Art Deco architecture within the municipality, Sariaya is considered as the Heritage Town of Quezon and the Art Deco Capital of Southern Luzon. This heritage town has been branded by various cultural experts as a 'cultural gem worthy of a UNESCO designation.' The local government of the municipality with the National Commission for Culture and the Arts of the Philippines were designated to work for the heritage town's inclusion in the UNESCO World Heritage List.\n\nWith the 2015 census population of almost 149,000, cityhood might be coming to Sariaya in a matter of years.\n\nThe origin of the word Sariaya was allegedly came from the word Sadyaya — one of the town's numerous rivers, but words of the great ancestors and legends have it that it was named after Saria, an supposedly 'illiterate' (according to the Spanish) woman who encountered the first Spaniards in the town who were asking the name of the settlement. Saria can't understand the question as it was in Spanish, which was foreign and unknown to everyone in the area during that time. She was thus branded as illiterate by the Spanish despite being highly educated through Tagalog traditional knowledge. The woman gave her name as answer to the Spanish, assuming that they were asking her name. The Spaniards wrote \"Saria\" on their notebooks as the name of the settlement. And while the Spaniards were talking with each other, the natives heard them utter the words \"Saria-ya\". Hence, the words traveled from mouth to mouth and became a common saying until the two words were combined.\nSariaya is an inland municipality in the province of Quezon, located 120 kilometers south of the National Capital Region where the country's capital of Manila is situated and approximately 12 kilometers from the highly urbanized city of Lucena. The municipality is bordered by Tayabas City on north-east side, the city of Lucena on its southeast, the municipality of Candelaria on its west, and the town of San Juan in Batangas on its south-west. Mount Banahaw flanks it on the north and Tayabas Bay on the south side.\n\nSariaya has a total land area of 24,530 hectares and composed of 43 barangays. Six barangays are urban barangays located at the Poblacion, one barangay is classified as sub-urban and six barangays are coastal barangays.\n\nHereunder is the list of Barangays in Municipality of Sariaya and its land area:\n\nSariaya is situated on a flat land except for a portion on the north occupying a part of the foot of Mount Banahaw. The municipality has the highest point of elevation on 3,800 feet above sea level at Barangays Concepcion Banahaw and Sampaloc Bogon.\n\nSariaya falls under Type III of the PAGASA's climatic classification system this is because it is situated on the southern portion of the province's mountain ranges characterized by seasons not very pronounced, relatively dry from December to April and wet during the rest of the year. The maximum rain periods are not very pronounced with the short dry season lasting from two to four months.\ncenter>Rural\n\nAccording to the 2015 census of population, Sariaya has a total population of 148,980 people making the second most populous area in Quezon after the City of Lucena.\nThe Poblacion is the most populous area in Sariaya with a total population of 10,138 people according to the 2015 census, Barangay Santo Cristo ranks second and Manggalang 1 placed in the third rank.\n\n\"Agriculture\" is one of the major sources of income in Sariaya. According to the 2016 Competitiveness Index of the National Competitiveness Council or NCC, the municipality belongs to the \"Top 50 most competitive municipalities\" in the Philippines. According to the annual Audit Report of Commission on Audit (COA), Sariaya is also one of Quezon's top grossing municipalities when factoring annual income.\nHere's the list of the total annual income, assets, expenses and equity of Sariaya since 2008: \n\nThe trade and commerce in Sariaya is heavily concentrated at General Luna Street which is the town's central business district where majority of the town's commercial establishments are situated such as retail, supermarkets, banks, drugstores, bakeries, merchandising, grocery, hardware, fastfood chains, shopping center, convenience stores and others.\n\nSariaya is traversed by the Maharlika Highway (Route 1), which passes through the town proper as the congested General Luna Street, and the newer Quezon Eco-Tourism Road (Route 422) which passes through the municipality's coastal areas. New highways will be South Luzon Expressway (SLEX) Toll Road 4, which will have one exit west of town proper, and the Sariaya Bypass Road, which is being built to decongest Maharlika Highway through the town center.\n\nBuses between Manila, Lucena, and Bicol stop at Sariaya town proper, and jeepneys provide short-distance transportation to nearby towns. Tricycles are used to travel between barangays.\n\nSariaya is served by landline and mobile phone companies like the General Telephone System, Inc. (GTSi) and Digitel Telecommunications (PLDT-Digitel) as the main telecommunication services providers in the municipality. Major mobile phone providers in the area includes Globe Telecom, Smart Communications, and Sun Cellular. Also, Sariaya has a cable provider which is the Sariaya Cable Network.\n\nThere are two private hospitals in Sariaya, with a dependable and well-staffed health center providing free medical and preventive services for residents of the forty-three barangays of the municipality.\n\n\n\nCelebrated every 15th day of May, this religious festivity pays tribute to San Isidro Labrador, the patron saint of farmers. This much-anticipated feast has close affinity with the 'Pahiyas Festival' of Lucban, Quezon. Pliant bamboo treetops and trellises (bagakay) weighed down by succulent fruits, native candies, rice cakes, and colorful rice krispies called \"kiping\" are deliberately pulled down on the streets by noisy merrymakers right after the afternoon procession. Festival revelers from the town's barangays, neighboring towns, and other provinces would then scramble to gather as many treats as they can snatch and carry, hence the term \"Agawan.\"\n\nOn 14 September, pious devotees from far and wide pay homage to the miraculous image of the Santo Cristo de Burgos during the Feast of the Exaltation of the Cross. The Catholic feast is a day-long veneration of the replica of the Crucified Christ at the ancient Cathedral of Burgos, Spain long believed to be a gift of King Philip V of Spain in 1703 to the people of Lumangbayan in Sariaya. People from far-flung barangays flock to the Poblacion to attend the packed fiesta Masses. They also sell their farm products and handicrafts in the public market as they eagerly sample the gaudily-decorated and crowded venue for the annual \"perya\" (fiesta fair) for thrilling rides, occasional circus performances, and shows featuring human mutants, trained animals performing tricks, vendors peddling herbal medicines, and \"peryantes,\" those hardy and itinerant peddlers of cheap clothing, toys, and kitchen utensils. The town's basketball tournament also holds its cherished championship game on the eve of this much-awaited day. Sometimes there are hired stage performances at the town plaza that feature some of the nation's stage, television and film celebrities as well as musical stars.\n\nSaint Francis of Assisi Parish Church is a stone church built in 1748, located at Barangay Poblacion II. Records tell that the present church is the fifth one erected by the Spanish Franciscan Friars in the history of Sariaya. In 1938, a historical marker bearing a brief history of the church was installed on its facade by the National Research and Markers Committee, precursor of the National Historical Commission of the Philippines.\n\n \nOn May 14, 2008, the National Historical Institute (NHI) unveiled markers of heritage houses for the three ancient yet still stately mansions at the heart of Sariaya town. These venerable houses are best viewed from the south, as they are silhouetted against the majestic and mystical Mount Banahaw, Quezon's long-dormant volcano. Cultural recognition was bestowed on three ancestral houses, namely: The Enriquez-Gala mansion, owned by former Tayabas (now Quezon) Gov. Natalio Enriquez and Susana Gala; the Gala-Rodriguez house of Dr. Isidro Rodriguez and Gregoria Gala, and the house of Catalino and Luisa Rodriguez also known as Villa Sariaya.\n\nRemains of an early 18th-century stone church and former town site of Sariaya, located at Barangay Tumbaga I. The settlement was inaugurated in 1703 with Father Lucas Fernandez as first parish priest and Francisco Argente as \"Presidente del Pueblo\". The church, which measured 500 square meters, served a recorded population of 3000 parishioners. Two events led to the abandonment of the town site: the earthquake of 1743 which consequently destroyed the church's bell tower, and the Moro raids which left the town site in ruins after being razed by fire. The venerated image of Santo Cristo de Burgos is said to have been enshrined in the church before it was transferred to its present shrine in the San Francisco Church in the present-day town proper of Sariaya. The unscathed image was said have been retrieved from the burnt church after the Muslim raider attack. The church is believed to be the fourth church structure built by the Spanish Franciscan Friars in Sariaya.\n\nThis multi-purpose park is a perfect place for recreational activities because of its pleasant and calm ambiance where kids can play at the park's playground, located at the heart of the town in front of Sariaya Church and the Town Hall at the left side. Sariaya Park is also the location where Sariaya Sports Complex is situated and usually used as the venue of different events and Basketball Leagues in the town.\n\nSariaya is the first town in the western part of the province with a sea coast. The municipality hosts numerous beach resorts and pool resorts which offers pristine beach and recreational activities.\n\nPool Resorts\n\n\nBeach Resorts with Boat Rides to Coral Reefs\n\n\nThe 2016 local elections in Sariaya was held on May 9, 2016 and some members of the municipal government was replaced, including the mayor, vice mayor and other members of the municipal council. Elected officials for the 2016-2019 term are: \n\n\nSariaya has sister city relationship with the foreign community of:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1942986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942986", "title": "Joseph W. Fifer", "text": "Joseph W. Fifer\n\nJoseph Wilson Fifer (October 28, 1840 – August 6, 1938) was the 19th Governor of Illinois, serving from 1889 to 1893. He also served as a member of the Illinois Senate from 1881 to 1883.\n\n\"Private Joe\" Fifer was born at Staunton, Virginia on October 28, 1840. At the age of 16, in 1856, he moved with his family to Danvers, Illinois and worked in his father's brickyard for several years.\n\nFifer enlisted as a Private in the 33rd Illinois Infantry at the start of the Civil War and was severely wounded at Jackson, Mississippi during General Grant's Vicksburg campaign. He refused a discharge and spent the rest of the war guarding a prison boat.\n\nAfter the war, Fifer married Gertrude Lewis, and had three children. The oldest child died in infancy, leaving Herman and Florence. He studied law at Illinois Wesleyan University and became the tax collector at Danvers Township. He served as the City Attorney of Bloomington, Illinois and as a state's attorney as well.\n\nIn 1880, he was elected to the state senate where he served for seven years. His name was elevated to state level after fighting with General John Black, the pension commissioner, when the latter tried to remove him as a \"typical Republican politician who did not deserve a pension.\" Fifer's pension was $24 a month. Due to his celebrity status \"Private Joe\" Fifer was elected Governor of Illinois in 1889. One of his notable acts as Governor was to commute the life sentence of murderer Dr.Thomas Neill Cream, allowing his release, and freeing Cream to commit at least four more murders in London.\nFifer lost a reelection bid, and then twice refused the nomination to run again for governor. He was appointed to the Interstate Commerce Commission (ICC) by President William McKinley in 1899.\n\nGovernor Fifer lived to see his daughter, Florence Fifer Bohrer, elected as the first female State Senator of Illinois in 1924.\n\n"}
{"id": "1942994", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942994", "title": "Turnitin", "text": "Turnitin\n\nTurnitin is an American commercial, Internet-based plagiarism detection service which is a subsidiary of Advance. \n\nFounded in 1997, universities and high schools typically buy licenses to use the software as a service (SaaS) website, which checks submitted documents against its database and the content of other websites with the aim of identifying plagiarism. Results can identify similarities with existing sources, and can also be used in formative assessment to help students learn to avoid plagiarism and improve their writing.\n\nStudents may be required to submit work to Turnitin as a requirement of taking a certain course or class. The software has been a source of controversy, with some students refusing to submit, arguing that requiring submission implies a presumption of guilt. Some critics have alleged that use of this proprietary software violates educational privacy as well as international intellectual-property laws, and exploits students' works for commercial purposes by permanently storing them in Turnitin's privately held database.\n\nTurnitin's parent company, iParadigms LLC, runs the informational website Plagiarism.org and also offers a similar plagiarism-detection service for newspaper editors and book and magazine publishers called iThenticate. Other tools included with the Turnitin suite are GradeMark (online grading and feedback) and PeerMark (peer-review services). Turnitin released the WriteCycle Suite on February 3, 2009, which bundles the Originality Checking service with its GradeMark online grading tools and PeerMark tools. Turnitin released Turnitin2 on September 4, 2010, dropping the \"WriteCycle\" nomenclature.\n\nIn March 2019, Advance acquired the company for .\n\nThe Turnitin software checks for potentially unoriginal content by comparing submitted papers to several databases using a proprietary algorithm. It scans its own databases and also has licensing agreements with large academic proprietary databases.\n\nThe essays submitted by students are stored in a database used to check for plagiarism. This prevents one student from using another student's paper, by identifying matching text between papers. In addition to student papers, the database contains a copy of the publicly accessible Internet, with the company using a web crawler to continually add content to Turnitin's archive. It also contains commercial and/or copyrighted pages from books, newspapers, and journals.\n\nStudents typically upload their papers directly to the service for teachers to access. Teachers may also submit a student's papers to Turnitin.com as individual files, by bulk upload, or as a ZIP file. Teachers can also set assignment-analysis options so that students can review the system's \"originality reports\" before they finalize their submission. A peer-review option is also available.\n\nSome virtual learning environments can be configured to support Turnitin, so that student assignments can be automatically submitted for analysis. Blackboard, Moodle, ANGEL, Instructure, Desire2Learn, Pearson Learning Studio, Sakai, and Studywiz integrate in some way with the software.\n\nIn 2019, Turnitin began analyzing admissions application materials through a partner software, Kira Talent. \n\nThe Student Union at Dalhousie University has criticized the use of Turnitin at Canadian universities because the American government may be able to access the submitted papers and personal information in the database under the USA PATRIOT Act. Mount Saint Vincent University became the first Canadian university to ban Turnitin's service partly because of implications of the Act.\n\nLawyers for the company claim that student work is covered under the theory of implied license to evaluate, since it would be pointless to write the essays if they were not meant to be graded. That implied license, the lawyers argue, thus grants Turnitin permission to copy, reproduce and preserve the works. The company's lawyers further claim that dissertations and theses also carry with them an implied permission to archive in a publicly accessible collection such as a university library.\n\nUniversity of Minnesota Law School professor Dan Burk countered that the company's use of the papers may not meet the fair-use test for several reasons:\n\nWhen a group of students filed suit against Turnitin on that basis, in \"Vanderhye et al. v. iParadigms LLC\", the district court found the practice fell within fair use; on appeal, the United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit affirmed.\n\nSome students argue that requiring them to submit papers to Turnitin creates a presumption of guilt, which may violate scholastic disciplinary codes and applicable local laws and judicial practice. Some teachers and professors support this argument when attempting to discourage their schools from joining Turnitin.\n\niParadigms, the company behind Turnitin, ran another commercial website called WriteCheck, where students paid a fee to have a paper tested against the database used by Turnitin, in order to determine whether or not that paper would be detected as plagiarism when the student submitted that paper to the main Turnitin website through the account provided by the school. It was announced that the WriteCheck product was being withdrawn in 2020 with no new subscriptions being accepted from November 2019. The economist Alex Tabarrok has complained that Turnitin's systems \"are warlords who are arming both sides in this plagiarism war\".\n\nIn one well-publicized dispute over mandatory Turnitin submissions, Jesse Rosenfeld, a student at McGill University declined, in 2004, to submit his academic work to Turnitin. The University Senate eventually ruled that Rosenfeld's assignments were to be graded without using the service. The following year, another McGill student, Denise Brunsdon, refused to submit her assignment to Turnitin.com and won a similar ruling from the Senate Committee on Student Grievances.\n\nA few other Canadian universities are currently in the process of either total or partial ban of this service. On March 6, 2006, the Senate at Mount Saint Vincent University in Nova Scotia prohibited the submission of students' academic work to Turnitin.com and any software that requires students' work to become part of an external database where other parties might have access to it. This decision was granted after the students' union alerted the university community of their legal and privacy concerns associated with the use of Turnitin.com and other anti-plagiarism devices that profit from students' academic work. This was the first campus-wide ban of its kind in Canada, following decisions by Princeton, Harvard, Yale and Stanford not to use Turnitin.\n\nAt Ryerson University in Toronto, students may decide whether to submit their work to Turnitin.com or make alternate arrangements with an instructor.\nSimilar policies are in place at Brock University in Saint Catharines.\n\nOn March 27, 2007, with the help of an intellectual property attorney, two students from McLean High School in Virginia (with assistance from the Committee For Students' Rights) and two students attending Desert Vista High School in Phoenix, Arizona, filed suit in United States Circuit Court (Eastern District, Alexandria Division) alleging copyright infringement by iParadigms, Turnitin's parent company. Nearly a year later, Judge Claude M. Hilton granted summary judgment on the students' complaint in favor of iParadigms/Turnitin, because they had accepted the click-wrap agreement on the Turnitin website. The students appealed the ruling, and on April 16, 2009, the United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit affirmed Judge Hilton's judgment in favor of iParadigms/Turnitin.\n"}
{"id": "1942997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942997", "title": "Killara railway station", "text": "Killara railway station\n\nKillara railway station is located on the North Shore line, serving the Sydney suburb of Killara. It is served by Sydney Trains T1 North Shore line services. Killara Railway Station has heritage significance at a local level and is set among expansive gardens, rare in the Sydney Metropolitan train network.\n\nKillara station opened on 10 July 1899. The present island platform and station building were completed in 1906 in anticipation of the line being doubled. This occurred in 1909.\n\nKillara station is served indirectly by one NightRide route that stops on the Pacific Highway:\n\n"}
{"id": "1943001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1943001", "title": "Michael C. Maronna", "text": "Michael C. Maronna\n\nMichael C. Maronna (born September 27, 1977) is an American actor who has appeared in several television programs and films. He is best known for his roles as \"Big Pete\" Wrigley on the TV show \"The Adventures of Pete & Pete\" and as Jeff McCallister in the movie \"Home Alone\" and its sequel, \"\".\n\nMaronna was born in Brooklyn, New York, to a fireman father and a guidance counselor mother. He is of one half Italian, three-eighths Irish, and one-eighth Dutch descent. He went to Hunter College High School in New York City, before attending Purchase College of the State University of New York, where he studied filmmaking.\n\nMaronna played older Pete Wrigley in the television show \"The Adventures of Pete & Pete\" on Nickelodeon, as well as the character of Jeff McCallister in the movie \"Home Alone\" and its sequel, \"\". He also portrayed a teenage killer in an episode of \"Law & Order\". In the 2000s, Maronna appeared in the movies \"Slackers\" and \"40 Days and 40 Nights\".\n\nMaronna was in a widely seen series of 1999 ads for the web brokerage Ameritrade, as Stuart, a slacker employee of a clueless boss whom he helps get on the internet with over-the-top zealousness. Maronna reprised the role in a comedy reel with Bill Clinton, which was shown at Clinton's final appearance as the President of the United States at the 2000 White House Correspondents' Association dinner.\n\nMaronna's last acting credits were in 2004, and since then he has worked as an electrician on films and television in New York. His credits include roles in \"Sex and The City\" and \"Be Kind Rewind\". He also appeared in the music videos for \"Whose Authority\" and \"All My Friends\", by the bands Nada Surf and The XYZ Affair, respectively.\n\nSince 2013, Maronna co-hosts the podcast \"The Adventures of Danny and Mike\" on with his \"Adventures of Pete and Pete\" co-star Danny Tamberelli.\n\n"}
{"id": "1943003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1943003", "title": "Tamsyn Manou", "text": "Tamsyn Manou\n\nTamsyn Carolyn Manou (née Lewis, born 20 July 1978) is an Australian track and field athlete and middle-distance runner, who has won a total of eighteen Australian Championships at 400 metres, 800 metres and 400m hurdles.\n\nAn Australian international representative since 1994, Manou won the World Indoor Championship at 800 metres in March 2008.\n\nTamsyn Manou was born and raised in Melbourne, Victoria and attended Methodist Ladies' College and Caulfield Grammar School. Her mother Carolyn Wright was a six time national high jump champion, while her father, Greg Lewis, was a semi-finalist in the 200 metres at the Mexico City Olympic Games.\n\nManou's athletics coaches have included Peter Fortune (Cathy Freeman's coach), Sebastian Coe and Daley Thompson. She married Australian cricketer Graham Manou in May 2011 and now competes under her married name.\n\nManou emerged onto the national athletics scene in 1994, winning several events at the Australian Championships: the Under-16 100 m/200 m double and the Under-20 400 m. After these performances she was chosen, aged 15, for the 1994 Commonwealth Games as a 4 x 400 metres relay runner, though she did not eventually compete in the event. Her next international selection was for the 1996 World Junior Championships in Sydney, where she won a bronze medal as part of the Australian 4 x 400 metres relay team.\n\nIn 1998, Manou moved up to the 800 metres distance, winning the National Championship and gaining a place in the 1998 Commonwealth Games team. Though she did not win a medal in the 800 m, she contributed to Australia's gold medal winning 4 × 400 m relay team. She next ran internationally in the 800 metres and 4 x 400 metres relay at the 1999 World Indoor Championships in Maebashi. Here she set an Australian indoor record of 2m02.42 in her individual event and again won a medal as part of Australia's 4 x 400 metres relay team.\n\nLeading into the 2000 Sydney Summer Olympics, Manou set new personal best times for 400 and 800 metres in qualifying for the Australian team. At the Olympics, she failed by less than a tenth of a second to reach the Olympic final in the 800 metres, but ran in Australia's 4 x 400 metres relay team which set two national records.\n\nIn the years after Sydney, Manou could not improve her personal best performances and gained a reputation as an underachiever in international competitions. Manou stopped running the 800 m in 2005 to focus on the 400 m and develop her speed. She competed only in the 400 m at the 2006 Commonwealth Games, where she missed making the final, and in the 4 x 400 metres relay event, where she won her third successive gold medal amidst a major controversy, as part of the victorious Australian quartet.\n\nIn 2007 Manou made a return to the 800 m distance under new coach, and brother, Justin Lewis, winning the 800 m national championships, placing in several European Meetings and qualifying for the 2007 IAAF World Championships in Athletics. In Osaka she finished fourth in her heat in 2.01.21 and was again unable to make the final.\n\nManou enjoyed a return to her very best form in early 2008, remaining undefeated over 400 m and 800 metres in Australia. She ran a personal best time of 51.44 to win the national 400 metres titles and comfortably retained her 800 metres crown. These performances earned Tamsyn selection in a third consecutive Australian Olympic team.\n\nAt the 2008 IAAF World Indoor Championships, held in Valencia, Spain, Manou qualified for the final running an Australian record of 2m01.85 in her heat. In a tactical final, Manou broke away from perennial champion Maria de Lurdes Mutola and Ukrainian Tetiana Petlyuk to win the gold medal in a major upset. Manou said \"I was wondering what I was doing out there. Then I realised that I could win the race. This is amazing. I still can't believe it.\"\n\nManou represented Australia at the 2008 Olympics in Beijing. Here she made the semi final of the 800 m and narrowly missed qualifying for the semi final of the 400 m.\n\nAt the Australian National Championships in Brisbane 2009 Manou won both the 400 m and the 400 m Hurdles. She has won a total of 18 national titles.\n\nManou has won a number of international medals in the 4 × 400 m relay:\n\n\nManou is also a three-time gold medal winner in the Commonwealth Games 4 × 400 m relay event.\n\n\nManou began a media career with Melbourne radio station Triple M, as part of the 'Dead Set Legends' crew, in 2005.\n\nIn 2006, she appeared on the Australian television series \"Dancing with the Stars\". Partnered by Arsen Kishishian, Manou finished third.\n\nWith Jules Lund and Ryan Shelton, Manou presented the \"Summer Fling\" breakfast show across the Austereo Today Network, from December 2007.\n\nManou and Bruce McAvaney presented the athletics track events for the Seven Network at the 2016 Summer Olympics in Rio de Janeiro.\n\nIn 2004, Manou posed in bikinis for \"Ralph\" magazine, prompting criticism from the media for losing focus on her preparation for the Athens Olympics. After Manou failed to progress past the heats of her individual event, the 800 metres, she and her coaches defended the photoshoot saying it was undertaken in five hours on one day and was not to blame for her result.\n\nIn February 2006, Manou and fellow Australian runner Jana Pittman were involved in a public feud after the Australian athletics trials for the 2006 Commonwealth Games. Pittman, in answer to a media question following her heat win, had stated she had \"no competition\" in Australia; Manou responded \"I was standing behind the blocks [for the final] going, 'I'll give you no competition, bitch.'\" in a radio interview after she won the final with Pittman finishing last. The media later described their relationship as a \"catfight\" and a \"bitchfight.\"\n\nIn the 29 May 2006 edition of Australian \"Zoo Weekly\" magazine, Manou again posed in what Nova 100 afternoon DJ's described as \"incredibly racy\" lingerie. In the accompanying article, Manou went into detail about her relationship with Jana Pittman and the furore caused over comments by Pittman that the team should all return their medals.\n\nIn the lead-up to the Beijing Olympics she stated she would be running against drug cheats; \"I have no doubts that when I line up next week, I will look left and right and know the other girls aren't all clean\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1943019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1943019", "title": "Gladiatrix", "text": "Gladiatrix\n\nThe gladiatrix (plural \"gladiatrices\") is the female equivalent of the gladiator of ancient Rome. Like their male counterparts, female gladiators fought each other, or wild animals, to entertain audiences at various games and festivals. Very little is known about them. They were almost certainly considered an exotic rarity by their audiences. Their existence is known only through a few accounts written by members of Rome's elite, and a very small number of inscriptions.\n\nFemale gladiators rarely appear in Roman histories. When they do, they are \"exotic markers of truly lavish spectacle\". In 66 AD, Nero had Ethiopian women, men and children fight at a \"munus\" to impress King Tiridates I of Armenia. Romans seem to have found the idea of a female gladiator novel and entertaining, or downright absurd; Juvenal titillates his readers with a woman named \"Mevia\", a beast-hunter, hunting boars in the arena \"with spear in hand and breasts exposed\", and Petronius mocks the pretensions of a rich, low-class citizen, whose \"munus\" includes a woman fighting from a cart or chariot. A \"munus\" circa 89 AD, during Domitian's reign, featured battles between female gladiators, described as \"Amazonian\". \nThere is no evidence for the existence or training of female gladiators in any known gladiator school. Vesley suggests that some might have trained under private tutors in \"Collegia Iuvenum\" (official \"youth organisations\"), where young men of over 14 years could learn \"manly\" skills, including the basic arts of war. He offers three inscriptions as possible evidence; one, from Reate, commemorates Valeria, who died aged seventeen years and nine months and \"belonged\" to her \"collegium\"; the others commemorate females attached to \"collegia\" in Numidia and Ficulea. Most modern scholarship describes these as memorials to female servants or slaves of the \"collegia\", not female gladiators. Nevertheless, female gladiators probably followed the same training, discipline and career path as their male counterparts; though under a less strenuous training regime.\n\nAs male gladiators were usually pitted against fighters of similar skill and capacity, the same probably applied to female gladiators. A commemorative relief from Halicarnassus shows two near-identical gladiators facing each other. One is identified as \"Amazon\" and the other as \"Achillia\"; their warlike \"stage names\" allude to the mythical tribe of warrior-women, and the warrior-hero Achilles. Each is bareheaded, equipped with a greave, loincloth, belt, rectangular shield, dagger and manica (arm protection). Two rounded objects at their feet probably represent their discarded helmets. An inscription describes their match as \"missio\", meaning that they were released; the relief, and its inscription, might indicate that they fought to an honourable \"standing tie\" as equals.\n\nA number of specific legal and moral codes applied to gladiators. In an edict of 22 BC, all men of senatorial class (not including equites) down to their grandsons were prohibited from participating in the games, on penalty of \"infamia\", which involved loss of social status and certain legal rights. In 19 AD, during the reign of Tiberius, this prohibition was extended under the Larinum Decree, to include equites, and women of citizen rank. Henceforth, all \"arenarii\" (those who appeared in the arena) could be declared \"\"infames\"\". This would have limited the participation of high-status women in the games, as intended, but would have made no difference to those already defined as \"infames\", such as the low-status (non-citizen) women, freed or slave, who might serve or otherwise assist in the gladiator schools (known as \"Ludi\") and be gladiators' wives, partners or followers (\"Ludia\"). The terms of the edict indicate a class based, rather than a gendered prohibition. Roman morality required that all gladiators be of the lowest social classes. Emperors such as Caligula, who failed to respect this distinction, earned the scorn of posterity; Cassius Dio takes pains to point out that when the much admired emperor Titus used female gladiators, they were of acceptably low class.\n\nAn inscription at Ostia Antica, marking games held there around the mid 2nd century AD, refers to a local magistrate's generous provision of \"women for the sword\". This is presumed to mean female gladiators, rather than victims. The inscription defines them as \"mulieres\" (women), rather than \"feminae\" (ladies), in keeping with their low social status. Juvenal describes high-status women who appear in the games as \"rich women who have lost all sense of the dignities and duties of their sex.\" Their self-indulgence was held to have brought shame upon themselves, their gender, and Rome's social order; they, or their sponsors, undermined traditional Roman virtues and values. Women beast-hunters (\"bestiarii\") could earn praise and a good reputation for courage and skill; Martial describes one who killed a lion - a Herculean feat, which reflected well on her \"editor\", the emperor Titus; but Juvenal was less than impressed by Mevia, who hunted boars with a spear \"like a man\", then squatted down in full view to urinate.\n\nSome regarded female gladiators of any class as a symptom of corrupted Roman sensibilities, morals and womanhood. Before he became emperor, Septimius Severus may have attended the Antiochene Olympic Games, which had been revived by the emperor Commodus and included traditional Greek female athletics. His attempt to give Rome a similarly dignified display of female athletics was met by the crowd with ribald chants and cat-calls. Probably as a result, he banned the use of female gladiators in 200 AD.\nThere may have been more, and earlier female gladiators than the sparse evidence allows; McCullough speculates the unremarked introduction of lower-class \"gladiatores mulieres\" at some time during the Augustan era, when provision of luxurious, crowd-pleasing games and abundant novelty became an exclusive privilege of the state, provided by the emperor or his officials. On the whole, Rome's elite authorities exhibit indifference to the existence and activities of non-citizen \"arenari\" of either gender. The Larinum decree made no mention of lower-class \"mulieres\", so their use as gladiators was permissible. Septimius Severus' later wholesale ban on female gladiators may have been selective in its practical application, targeting higher-status women with personal and family reputations to lose. Nevertheless, this does not imply low-class female gladiators as a commonplace in Roman life. Male gladiators were wildly popular, and were celebrated in art, and in countless images across the Empire. Only one near-certain image of female gladiators survives; their appearance in Roman histories is extremely rare, and is invariably described by observers as unusual, exotic, aberrant or bizarre; the Romans had no specific word for female gladiators as type or class.\n\nMost gladiators paid subscriptions to \"burial clubs\" that ensured their proper burial on death, in segregated cemeteries reserved for their class and profession. A cremation burial unearthed in Southwark, London in 2001 was identified by some sources as that of a possible female gladiator. She was buried outside the main cemetery, along with pottery lamps of Anubis - (who like Mercury, would lead her into the afterlife) - a lamp with the image of a fallen gladiator, and the burnt remnants of Stone Pine cones, whose fragrant smoke was used to cleanse the arena. Her identification as gladiatrix has been variously described as \"70 percent probable\", \"intriguing\", circumstantial, and erroneous. She may have simply been an enthusiast, or a gladiator's \"ludia\" (wife or lover). Human female remains found during an archaeological rescue dig at Credenhill in Herefordshire have also been speculated in the popular media as those of a female gladiator.\n\n\nAmong the pictures commissioned in Italy by king Philip IV of Spain for his Palacio del Buen Retiro in Madrid, there is a series on Roman circuses including a picture of female gladiators.\n\n"}
{"id": "1943021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1943021", "title": "Henderson limit", "text": "Henderson limit\n\nThe Henderson limit is the X-ray dose (energy per unit mass) a cryo-cooled crystal can absorb before the diffraction pattern decays to half of its original intensity. Its value is defined as 2 × 10 Gy (J/kg).\n\nAlthough the process is still not fully understood, diffraction patterns of crystals typically decay with X-ray exposure due to a number of processes which non-uniformly and irreversibly modify molecules that compose the crystal. These modifications induce disorder and thus decrease the intensity of Bragg diffraction. The processes behind these modifications include primary damage via the photo electric effect, covalent modification by free radicals, oxidation (methionine residues), reduction (disulfide bonds) and decarboxylation (glutamate, aspartate residues).\n\nAlthough generalizable, the limit is defined in the context of biomolecular X-ray crystallography, where a typical experiment consists of exposing a single frozen crystal of a macromolecule (generally protein, DNA or RNA) to an intense X-ray beam. The beams that are diffracted are then analyzed towards obtaining an atomically resolved model of the crystal. Such decay presents itself as a problem for crystallographers who require that the diffraction intensities decay as little as possible, to maximize the signal to noise ratio in order to determine accurate atomic models that describe the crystal.\n\n"}
{"id": "1943027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1943027", "title": "Colin McCahon", "text": "Colin McCahon\n\nColin John McCahon (1August 191927May 1987) was a prominent New Zealand artist whose work over forty-five years consisted of various styles including landscape, figuration, abstraction and the overlay of painted text. Along with Toss Woollaston and Rita Angus, McCahon is credited with introducing modernism to New Zealand in the mid twentieth century. He is regarded as New Zealand's most important modern artist, particularly in his landscape work.\n\nMcCahon was born in Timaru on 1 August 1919 the second of three children of Ethel Beatrice Ferrier and her husband John Kernohan McCahon. He spent most of his childhood in Dunedin, although his family lived in Oamaru for one year. He showed an early interest in art, influenced by regular visits to exhibitions and the work of his maternal grandfather, the photographer and painter William Ferrier, which hung in the family home. He attended the Maori Hill Primary School and Otago Boys' High School which he called: \"the most unforgettable horror of my youth\".\n\nAt the age of 14, convinced he wanted to be an artist, McCahon took Russell Clark's Saturday morning art classes to learn the fundamental skills of painting. Visits to an exhibition by Toss Woollaston, whose landscapes, \"clean, bright with New Zealand light, and full of air\", also inspired him to become a painter. McCahon later attended the Dunedin School of Art (now known as Otago Polytechnic) from 1937 to 1939, where his teacher Robert Nettleton Field proved to be an inspirational influence. After leaving Otago, McCahon attended King Edward Technical College Art School as a part-time student.\n\nHe first exhibited his work at the Otago Art Society in 1939. His painting \"Harbour Cone from Peggy’s Hill\" was considered too abstract and was excluded from the Otago Art Society's exhibition, despite a rule entitling each member to submit one work. The society’s conventions of good taste were challenged by McCahon’s modernist style which reduced the volcanic cones of the Otago Peninsula to a topographic series of bare, almost monochromatic forms. The protests of other young artists, who withdrew their works in sympathy, forced the society to relent and display the work.\n\nMcCahon supported himself in the late-thirties with a stint of working in a touring variety show, stage scenery painting, and fruit picking. Some of these jobs were undertaken during his voluntary service for the state during World War II.\n\nAt the beginning of World War II, McCahon worked in prescribed industries in support of the war effort. McCahon had initially tried to enlist for military service after deciding that the defeat of Fascism was a global necessity - even from his pacifist standpoint. He was rejected from active service due to an enlarged heart.\n\nIn September 1940 and November 1943 he was guest exhibitor with The Group show in Christchurch. He became a member of The Group in 1947 and contributed work regularly until its demise in 1977. During 1944 McCahon collaborated with his wife producing watercolours collectively called \"Pictures for Children.\" In 1940 he had a small exhibit in Wellington and produced his first commissioned work, \"Otago Peninsula\".\n\nBetween 1940 and 1950 McCahon was commissioned by the Department of Education to produce an illustration for the New Zealand School Journal. This illustration is now held at Archives New Zealand.\n\nLater, leaving his family at home, he traveled around the South Island for seasonal work which subsequently led to his artwork reflecting the places he traveled to, particularly the Nelson region.\n\nMcCahon’s first mature works, religious paintings and symbolic landscapes such as \"The Angel of the Annunciation\", \"Takaka: Night and Day\", and \"The Promised Land\" were produced in the years immediately after the war. During this time, a notable portrait of McCahon was painted by Doris Lusk.\n\nMcCahon married fellow artist Anne Hamblett (1915–1993) in 1942 at St. Matthew's Church, Dunedin. As a wedding present, McCahon and Hamblett received a book by C. A. Cotton, \"The Geomorphology of New Zealand\". This book would prove to have an influence on his art.\n\nAs McCahon relied on seasonal work his wife returned to live with her parents. Over the next five years, their time together was intermittent. The couple had four children - two daughters and two sons: William, Catherine, Victoria and Matthew.\n\nMcCahon began the first of his early religious painting \"I Paul to you at Ngatimote\" in 1946 in Nelson. These works depicted events from Christ’s life in a New Zealand setting. McCahon was never a member of a church but acknowledged that religious questions were central to his work. In the 1940s words began to appear in his work often resulting in public criticism. McCahon felt the directness of words could help, provide a 'way in' to his images, a long tradition within painted images, especially in religious art.\n\nIn 1947 he worked as a labourer and in 1948 worked as a gardener in Christchurch. His friend R. N. O’Reilly organised an exhibit at the Wellington Public Library February 1947, then at the Lower Hutt Municipal Public Library. In September 1947 McCahon showed a different selection at the Dunedin Public Library.\n\nBy 1948, McCahon and Hamblett had relocated to Christchurch. McCahon met the poet John Caselberg in Christchurch in October 1948. McCahon collaborated with Caselberg on various works that fused words and images.\n\nThe support of the poet and editor Charles Brasch enabled McCahon to visit Melbourne from July to August 1951 to study paintings in the National Gallery of Victoria. In August 1949, Helen Hitchings’s gallery mounted a joint exhibition of works by McCahon and Woollaston in Wellington; a selection was shown in Auckland later that month.\n\nIn May 1953, McCahon moved his family to Titirangi, Auckland, where they bought a house. Partly as a result of his exposure to the area, McCahon painted many landscapes featuring beaches, the sea, the sky, land, boats and kauri trees. He started working at the Auckland City Art Gallery first as a cleaner, then as a custodian of the paintings, and finally, in April 1956, as the Deputy Director. McCahon assisted in the professionalisation of the gallery and helped it mount the first exhibitions and publications to record New Zealand art history.\n\nFrom April to July 1958, McCahon and his wife visited the United States on Gallery business. They used the visit as an opportunity to view art that interested them in major galleries. Colin and Ann McCahon visited galleries and museums throughout America. Paintings such as \"The Wake\" and the \"Northland Panels\" reflect McCahon’s immediate response to this visit which accelerated his stylistic development during the following decade.\n\nIn 1964, McCahon started working as a lecturer at the Elam School of Fine Arts at the University of Auckland.\n\nIn 1960, the family moved to a house in central Auckland. In August 1964, McCahon resigned from the Auckland City Art Gallery and began lecturing at the University of Auckland’s Elam School of Fine Arts where he remained for six years, influencing a generation of artists, including Richard Killeen, Robin White and Ian Scott.\n\nDuring the 1960s, McCahon's work enjoyed increased exposure and recognition in New Zealand and internationally. McCahon worked almost exclusively in black and white after the mid-sixties and produced a number of works combining numbers and texts, such as \"Io\" and \"Lark’s Song\" was based on a poem by Matire Kereama, whose book \"The Tail of the Fish\" deepened McCahon’s interest in Mäoritanga and Mäori imagery.\n\nIn January 1971, he left Elam School of Fine Arts to paint full-time. McCahon produced both word and landscape paintings during this period but words increasingly began to dominate his output. Works from this period include: \"Victory Over Death 2\", \"Gate III\", and the \"Necessary Protection\" series, as well as numerous landscapes of the Kaipara area.\n\nA second retrospective of his work was presented at Auckland City Art Gallery in 1972 which later toured New Zealand.\n\nIn 1975 the Manawatu Art Gallery mounted the first exhibition to examine in detail a particular aspect of his past work, \"McCahon: 'Religious' Works 1946–1952\". The implications of recent work were dealt with in the Govett-Brewster Art Gallery’s 1977 exhibition McCahon’s 'Necessary Protection'; both exhibitions toured. Although McCahon’s work still attracted derision there was growing support for his work.\n\nBy the late 1970s, McCahon’s health had deteriorated because of his long-term alcoholism, and he was suffering from dementia through Korsakov’s syndrome by the mid-1980s. In 1984, the exhibition \"I Will Need Words\" was presented as part of the Biennale of Sydney; McCahon was barely able to appreciate his growing international reputation due to his ill health. He died in Auckland City Hospital on 27 May 1987. On 6 June 1988, his ashes were scattered throughout the Muriwai headland.\n\nAuckland City Art Gallery presented another retrospective, \"Colin McCahon: Gates and Journeys,\" the following year. Further major exhibitions both in New Zealand and overseas have followed.\n\nMcCahon is best known for his large paintings with dark backgrounds overlaid with religious texts in white. He was also an extensive landscape painter and was inspired in part by the writings of New Zealand geologist Sir Charles A Cotton in \"The Geomorphology of New Zealand\" (3rd ed. 1942), a scientific text which examined landscape forms and processes, illustrated with sketches, diagrams and photographs. These diagrams ignored built features, trees, and objects irrelevant to his scientific themes as he attempted to strip the landscape to its geological basis. These precise drawings would inform McCahon in his efforts to find the landscape’s spiritual basis.\n\nAfter returning to New Zealand from visiting America in 1958 there was a significant change in McCahon's work. Instead of using frames he worked with unstretched and unframed canvas and other changes included a considerable increase in scale; the creation of series of works in contrast to individual paintings; and \"a new gestural freedom in his brushwork.\" These differences were apparent in \"Northland Panels\" and \"The Wake.\"\n\nThematically, his art was at times concerned with developing a painterly nationalism. McCahon himself explored issues of Christianity and pacifism both within and outside of this national identity.\n\nMcCahon's graphic design work in theatre, posters and jewellery is lesser known, although said to be influential in his art practice.\n\nOf his painting \"Jump\", McCahon wrote in 1971:I am not painting protest pictures. I am painting about what is still there and what I can see before the sky turns black with soot and the sea becomes a slowly heaving rubbish tip. I am painting what we have got now and will never get again. This is one shape or form, has been the subject of my painting for a very long time.\n\nHe felt that: Most of my work has been aimed at relating man to man to this world, to an acceptance of the very beautiful and terrible mysteries that we are part of. I aim at very direct statement and ask for a simple and direct response. Any other way the message gets lost.\nMy painting is almost entirely autobiographical – it tells you where I am at any given point in time, where I am living and the direction I am pointing in. In this present time it is very difficult to paint for other people – to paint beyond your own ends and point directions as painters once did. Once the painter was making signs and symbols for people to live by; now he makes things to hang on walls at exhibitions.\n\nMcCahon developed his own take on expressionism, influenced by both Robert Nettleton Field (1899–1987) and German Expressionism. At the Dunedin School of Art, McCahon met Rodney Eric Kennedy (1909–1989), Doris Lusk, Anne Hamblett and Patrick Hayman. McCahon, Lusk and Hamblett and to a lesser extent Hayman were later hailed by J. D. Charlton Edgar (1903–1976) as \"the first cell of modern art[ists] in New Zealand\". This was the first true art school in New Zealand.\n\nDuring a visit to the United States in 1958, McCahon saw paintings by Barnett Newman, Kazimir Malevich, Jackson Pollock, Mark Rothko, Piet Mondrian and Willem de Kooning. Before this trip he had only seen these works reproduced in books. He was struck by the physicality of Pollock's works and he described them as \"pictures for people to walk past.\" He was also influenced by the installations of Allan Kaprow and the sensation of walking through an artwork rather than walking past it. McCahon had visited the studio of Kaprow and he also saw Kaprow's work exhibited in New York at the Hansa Gallery.\n\nAfter this trip, McCahon's use of scale and space shifted, most notably in \"The Northland Panels,\" his work consisted of eight panels, monocoat on canvas. Another work completed in 1958, after McCahon's return from America, was \"The Wake\", which was exhibited at The Gallery in Symonds Street, Auckland. \"The Wake\" consisted of sixteen panels and incorporated words from poems by John Caselberg. McCahon used Allan Kaprow's term 'environment' when he described the work in a lecture in 1963 as having been hung to \"create a complete environment.\"\n\nA constant theme throughout McCahon's art is his exploration of the religious. His landscapes, in particular, are imbued with a sense of the spiritual. Even more overtly, McCahon often sets Biblical scenes in the contemporary New Zealand landscape. His \"Otago Peninsula\" (1949), currently in the collection of the Dunedin Public Library, was the realization of a schoolboy vision inspired by Otago.\n\nA Te Papa profile of McCahon has described his landscapes as \"often stark and empty (rather than picturesque), raising questions about the human histories of these seemingly unpopulated landscapes.\"\n\nIn the series \"Necessary Protection,\" McCahon represents the Muriwai coastline as a site of spiritual nourishment.\n\nMcCahon's large-format 'word paintings' combine his religious and abstraction tendencies. His Early Religious Paintings created a very literal connection between the events and locations of the Bible and his native soil. He started incorporating words into his paintings in the 1940s, a move which was often criticised by the public, but which he felt was necessary to directly communicate with the viewers of his art. The Early Religious Paintings are testament to McCahon's 1939 aim to connect God and land for the sake of peace.\n\nThe McCahon family house in French Bay, Titirangi, Auckland, now serves as a small museum about Colin McCahon and his family. The house is surrounded by large kauri trees, large at least for semi-urban standards.\n\nThere is a more contemporary house and studio in the same section which serves as the base for the McCahon House artists' residency. The contemporary house hosts three artists for three months every year.\n\nA major retrospective of his work at the Stedelijk Museum in Amsterdam in 2002 introduced McCahon as \"the first modern New Zealand painter of major international importance.\"\n\nIn June 1997, the \"Urewera Mural\", a triptych, was stolen from the reception of the Department of Conservation Āniwaniwa Visitor Centre at Lake Waikaremoana.\n\nIt was eventually determined that the painting had been stolen by Tuhoe activist Te Kaha and an associate Laurie Davis. After missing for 15 months, it was returned in August 1998 after negotiations involving arts patron Jenny Gibbs, Te Kaha, and Tuhoe member Tame Iti. It required more than $5,000 worth of repairs once it had been returned. It was finally returned to the visitors' centre in September 1999. When it was stolen, the mural was thought to be worth $1.2 million but that figure was later revised upward to $2M.\nIn late 2006 manuscripts, including seven Colin McCahon poems, along with a Charles Goldie painting, and an unbound copy of the Oxford Lectern Bible, were stolen from the University of Auckland Library during the Christmas break. It was believed that the thieves broke into a secure room at the Library by prying open a locked window. Art experts and police said at the time that it would be difficult to sell the paintings in New Zealand or overseas as anyone who knew about the artists would be very suspicious. By October 2007, all the stolen items, valued at over $200,000, were returned. Negotiations between police and a man who knew the thieves concluded the case. Following this incident, security was increased at the library.\n\nTobias Cummings & The Long Way Home's \"Canoe Song\" refers to several of McCahon's works on their debut album, \"Join the Dots\".\n\nMcCahon is the subject of a 2004 biographical documentary titled \"Colin McCahon: I Am\", produced by Television New Zealand and directed by Paul Swadel.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1943028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1943028", "title": "Omloop Het Nieuwsblad", "text": "Omloop Het Nieuwsblad\n\nOmloop Het Nieuwsblad, previously Omloop Het Volk, is a one-day road cycling race in Belgium, held annually in late February. It is the opening event of the Belgian cycling season, as well as the first race of the year in Northwestern Europe, and holds significant prestige because of it. Since 2017, the race is part of the UCI World Tour, cycling's top-tier professional events.\n\nThe race starts in Ghent, Flanders and finishes in Ninove, Flanders. The race route covers the hills in the Flemish Ardennes, marking the start of the cobbled classics season in Europe. Due to its early calendar date, it is characterized by often cold weather, coming as a contrast to the early-season stage races in the Middle East and Southern Europe. The day after the \"Omloop\", Kuurne–Brussels–Kuurne completes the opening weekend.\n\nSince 2006, a women's edition of Omloop Het Nieuwsblad is held on the same day as the men's race, also starting in Ghent and finishing in Ninove, approximately 130 kilometres in distance. Annemiek van Vleuten won the 2020 edition. Both events are organized by Flanders Classics.\n\nFirst held in 1945, the race was called \"Omloop van Vlaanderen (\"Circuit of Flanders\")\". The event was initiated by Flemish newspaper \"Het Volk\", in response to rivaling newspaper \"Het Nieuwsblad\"’s classic, the Tour of Flanders. \"Het Volk\", of left-leaning publication, wanted to start a new cycling event in Flanders as a rival race to what it saw as the Tour of Flanders' closeness to the Nazis during World War II. The \"Ronde's\" organizers protested that the name was too close to their own – there is little semantic difference between \"Ronde\" and \"Omloop\". The Belgian cycling federation demanded Het Volk to change the name of the event, prompting Het Volk to serve as title sponsor of their own race. In 2009 the former rival newspapers \"Het Volk\" and \"Het Nieuwsblad\" merged, causing the event to be renamed \"Omloop Het Nieuwsblad\" for its 64th edition. Until 2016, Omloop Het Nieuwsblad was ranked as a 1.HC event of the UCI Europe Tour; since 2017, it is included in the UCI World Tour.\n\nDue to its early-season calendar date, the race has occasionally been affected by cold and wintry conditions. Three editions of the event were cancelled. The 1971 race was postponed due to snow and run three weeks later. In 1986 and 2004 organizers were forced to cancel the race, as snow and freezing temperatures had made the route too dangerous and riders' safety could not be guaranteed. In modern times, organizers rely heavily on weather forecasts and adjust the course if some sectors are deemed unsafe. Unrelated to the weather, the 1960 race was cancelled following a disagreement between the organizers and cycling's ruling body UCI.\n\nTraditionally the opening event of the Belgian cycling season, the race holds particular importance for Belgian cyclists. Throughout its history, Belgian riders, comfortable with cold weather and aided by large, supportive crowds, have dominated the race. Belgians have won 56 editions, although, exemplary for the growing international status of the race, they have only won four of the last ten editions. In 1948 Italian cycling icon Fausto Coppi won the race, but was disqualified for receiving an illegal wheel-change.\n\nThe record for wins is three, shared by Joseph Bruyère, Ernest Sterckx and Peter van Petegem. Bruyère holds the fastest average (43.35 km/h) for his 1975 win. Other notable winners include Eddy Merckx, Roger De Vlaeminck, Freddy Maertens, Johan Museeuw, Philippe Gilbert and Thor Hushovd.\n\nOmloop Het Nieuwsblad starts in Ghent, East Flanders, and addresses the Flemish Ardennes in the south of the province, featuring numerous short climbs, before returning to Ghent. From 1996 until 2007 the finish was in Lokeren, 20 km east of Ghent.\n\nAt 200 kilometres and with 13 climbs in the \"hill zone\", the course is challenging and arduous. Additionally, there are several flat stretches of cobbles. Despite annual changes, some of the regular climbs in the \"Omloop\" are the Leberg, Berendries, Taaienberg, Muur van Geraardsbergen, Eikenberg and Molenberg. Due to its hilly course in the Flemish Ardennes, the race is similar in nature to the Tour of Flanders, and is often used in preparation for the bigger event five weeks later. The 2016 race featured one new climb, Boembekeberg, as a replacement for the Molenberg, which was skipped because of road works. This was reversed for the 2017 race.\n\nBoth the official start and finish are traditionally on Ghent's largest square, \"Sint-Pietersplein\". Every seven years however, when Easter comes early in the year, the square is booked for the annual Mid-Lent fair and organizers need to find different locations. In 2016 and 2017, the , next to the Kuipke velodrome, served as start location. The finish was on the Emile Clauslaan thoroughfare, near the starting place.\nThe following riders have won the race:\n\n\"Riders in italics are active\"\n\nSince 2006 there is a women's version of the Omloop Het Nieuwsblad. Held on the same day as the men's event, it uses much of the same roads and equally opens the women's cycling season in Northern Europe. In recent editions the route is 122 km, featuring eight climbs and six sections of cobbles. Dutch rider Suzanne de Goede and Sweden's Emma Johansson have won the race twice.\n\nAn edition of the race for under-23 men has been held since 1950.\n"}
{"id": "1943032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1943032", "title": "Canal Street Incline", "text": "Canal Street Incline\n\nThe Canal Street Incline (also Canal Street portal) was a ramp connecting two transit tunnels in Boston with surface and elevated lines. It was located in the Bulfinch Triangle between North Station and Haymarket Square in two blocks bounded by Canal Street to the west, Causeway Street to the north, Haverhill Street to the east, and Market Street to the south. The incline was the north end of the Tremont Street subway (which became the center of the MBTA Green Line) and the Washington Street Tunnel (which became the Orange Line). Built in 1898, it remained in use until 2004 when the last connecting line was moved underground.\n\nDuring planning of the Tremont Street subway in the 1890s, various configurations were considered for the north end of the tunnel. All designs included an incline to the surface to serve streetcars from Charlestown and Cambridge, plus a surface or underground terminal for streetcars from the tunnel. (The blocks between these streets had formerly been occupied by the tracks leading to the Boston and Maine Railroad's Haymarket Square terminal, which was closed in 1893 by the construction of North Union Station.) The Boston Transit Commission constructed a four-track incline; the inner tracks would lead to the surface, and the outer tracks would serve a planned underground loop station (which was later replaced with a surface terminal).\n\nThis four-track incline opened on September 3, 1898 as part of the final section of the Tremont Street subway. On June 10, 1901, the two outer tracks were connected to the newly opened Charlestown Elevated; only the inner tracks carried streetcars. By this time, a pedestrian tunnel crossed under the incline at Traverse Street, which had been severed by its construction. On November 30, 1908, the Washington Street Tunnel opened; it was connected to the Charlestown Elevated using the two eastern tracks of the incline. The incline was expanded west for two additional tracks, restoring four-track streetcar operations through the subway.\n\nOn June 1, 1912, the Causeway Street Elevated (which led to the Lechmere Viaduct) was connected to the outer tracks at the incline. After route was converted to bus on July 1, 1949, the center streetcar tracks were only used by streetcars terminating at North Station. The Charlestown Elevated was closed on April 4, 1975, and the eastern two tracks of the incline were removed. The Haymarket North Extension, which opened on April 7, included a new tunnel and an underground North Station.\n\nThe Causeway Street terminal was closed on March 28, 1997 for construction of a new Green Line tunnel. The tracks to the Causeway Street Elevated were shifted east onto the 1975-abandoned part of the incline, and a temporary elevated structure was built over Haverhill Street. Service over this structure ended on June 25, 2004; service to the new underground North Station \"superstation\" began on June 28. A new incline at Martha Road some to the northwest, which connects the extended tunnel to the Lechmere Viaduct, opened on November 12, 2005. The former Canal Street Incline site was soon covered by commercial development.\n"}
{"id": "1943041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1943041", "title": "Brown-crested flycatcher", "text": "Brown-crested flycatcher\n\nThe brown-crested flycatcher (\"Myiarchus tyrannulus\") is a passerine bird in the tyrant flycatcher family.\n\nAdult brown-crested flycatchers are long and weigh and have heavy bills. The upperparts are olive brown, with a darker head and short crest. The breast is grey and the belly is lemon yellow. The brown tail feathers have rufous inner webs, the remiges have rufous outer webs, and there are two dull wing bars. The sexes are similar.\n\nThe brown-crested flycatcher is best separated from other confusingly similar \"Myiarchus\" species by its call, a rough loud \"come HERE, come HERE\" or \"whit-will-do, whit-will-do\".\nThe brown-crested flycatcher breeds in open woodland from southern California, southern Nevada, central Arizona, and southern Texas southward to Argentina and Bolivia, and on Trinidad and Tobago. It is resident in most of its range, but individuals breeding in the United States retreat to Mexico or southern Florida in winter.\n\nThis species is a rather skulking insectivore which catches its prey by flycatching amongst the undergrowth. It sometimes eats fruit, such as the \"gumbo-limbo\", \"Bursera simaruba\". The nest is built in a tree cavity or similar natural or man-made hole, and the normal clutch is two or three purple-marked cream eggs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1943045", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1943045", "title": "Puzzle box", "text": "Puzzle box\n\nA puzzle box (also called a secret box or trick box) is a box that can only be opened by solving a puzzle. Some require only a simple move and others a series of discoveries.\n\nModern puzzle boxes developed from furniture and jewelry boxes with secret compartments and hidden openings, known since Renaissance time. Puzzle boxes produced for entertainment first appeared in Victorian England in the 19th century and as tourist souvenirs in the Interlaken region in Switzerland and in the Hakone region of Japan at the end of the 19th and the beginning of the 20th century. Boxes with secret openings appeared as souvenirs at other tourist destinations during early 20th century, including the Amalfi Coast, Madeira, and Sri Lanka, though these were mostly 'one-trick' traditions. Chinese cricket boxes represent another example of intricate boxes with secret openings.\n\nInterest in puzzle boxes subsided during and after the two World Wars. The art was revived in the 1980s by three pioneers of this genre: Akio Kamei in Japan, Trevor Wood in England, and Frank Chambers in Ireland. There are currently a number of artists producing puzzle boxes, including the Karakuri group in Japan set up by Akio Kamei, US puzzle box specialists Robert Yarger and Kagen Sound, as well as a number of other designers and puzzle makers who produce puzzle boxes across the globe.\n\nClive Barker's horror novella \"The Hellbound Heart\" (later adapted into a movie \"Hellraiser\", followed by numerous original sequels) centers on the fictional Lemarchand's box, a puzzle box which opens the gates to another dimension when manipulated.\n\n"}
{"id": "1943050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1943050", "title": "Frederick Dent Grant", "text": "Frederick Dent Grant\n\nFrederick Dent Grant (May 30, 1850 – April 12, 1912) was a soldier and United States minister to Austria-Hungary. Grant was the first son of General and President of the United States Ulysses S. Grant and Julia Grant. He was also named after his uncle, Frederick Tracy Dent.\n\nHis father was in the United States Army when Frederick was born in St. Louis, Missouri. The family moved as the senior Grant was assigned to posts in Michigan and New York. Frederick spent his early childhood at his paternal grandparent's house while his father was stationed on the West Coast. After his father's resignation from the army, the family lived in St. Louis and in Galena, Illinois.\n\nGrant attended public school in Galena until the outbreak of the American Civil War in 1861. Grant's father organized a volunteer regiment and was made colonel. Frederick accompanied his father when the regiment was sent to northern Missouri, but he was sent home when it arrived. He then rejoined his father off and on during several campaigns during the war. Eager to be a part of the action, Frederick put himself in harm's way many times while with his father. This happened for the last time during the decisive battle that ended the Siege of Vicksburg. During the battle, Frederick rode off onto the field and was supsequently shot in the leg by a confederate sniper. Normally, his wound would have called for amputation, however, possibly due to his military aspirations or his father’s rank, this did not occur. Despite a painful infection, doctors were able to save his leg. Though in his weakened state, Frederick fell victim to Typhoid Fever, which was common in Union camps during the war. Fortunately, he made a full recovery.\n\nGrant was appointed to West Point in 1866 and graduated in 1871.\n\nOn June 1, 1870, the first African American cadet, James Webster Smith, from South Carolina, was admitted into the United States Military Academy. Smith was sponsored by Senator Adelbert Ames of Mississippi and nominated by Representative Solomon L. Hoge of South Carolina. Smith was hand picked for his outstanding character and scholarly ability by David Clark, a northern philanthropist. While at West Point, Smith was forced to endure immense racism, violence, and shunning by other West Point attendees. Frederick Dent Grant has been accused of having been one of Smith's harassers.\n\nWhile Frederick Dent Grant was named as one of the chief persecutors by William McFeely in his biography of Ulysses S. Grant, quoted as saying to his father, then President, that “no \"damned nigger\" will ever graduate from West Point,” recent scholarship has raised questions about McFeely’s sources. The evidence McFeely employs to assert Fred’s racism comes from an entirely separate hazing incident in 1870 involving a number of white cadets that Smith was never involved with. In a January 1871 investigation of the hazing Frederick testified to the Committee on Military Affairs that he was aware of the prank, that he supported it, and that he did nothing to stop it. McFeely conflates Fred’s testimony from this case with the separate court martial cases against Smith to make it look like he was aware of and supported Smith’s harassment. In actuality, Dent Grant never testified in Smith’s cases nor admitted any role in his harassment. In addition, the inflammatory racism cited by McFeely was described by a witness who was not actually present at the meeting.\n\nSmith was later discharged after failing an unconventional private examination by Professor Peter Michie. While Frederick Grant denied being a leader of the cadets who hazed Smith for being an African American, there is evidence to suggest he actively participated. (Smith died of tuberculosis in 1876 and was granted a posthumous commission in the United States Army in 1997)\n\nUpon graduating West Pont Grant was assigned to the 4th U.S. Cavalry Regiment. He took a leave of absence to work with the Union Pacific Railroad as a civil engineer. Late in 1871, he was aide-de-camp to General William Tecumseh Sherman in Europe. He rejoined the 4th Cavalry in Texas in 1872.\n\nIn 1873, he was assigned to the staff of General Philip Sheridan and promoted to lieutenant colonel. He was on the Yellowstone Expedition and was with George Armstrong Custer during the Black Hills expedition.\n\nHis daughter Julia was born on June 6, 1876. Grant received leave to travel to Washington, D.C. for her birth.\n\nIn 1877, he took a leave of absence to accompany his father on a trip around the world.\n\nIn 1878, Grant was in the Bannock War and was in the fight against Victorio in New Mexico.\n\nFrederick Grant resigned from the U.S. Army in 1881, and assisted his father in preparing the latter's memoirs. During this time, he was in business in New York City.\n\nIn 1887, he ran on the Republican ticket for Secretary of State of New York, but was defeated by the Democratic incumbent Frederick Cook. In 1889, President Benjamin Harrison appointed him the U.S. Minister to Austria-Hungary. After Grover Cleveland became president in March 1893, Grant continued in his post until his successor presented his credentials on June 8, 1893.\n\nGrant became a commissioner of police in New York City in 1894, an office he held until 1898. He served on the Police Commission along with future President Theodore Roosevelt.\n\nWhen the Spanish–American War started in 1898, Grant was commissioned as colonel of the 14th New York Volunteers on May 2, 1898 and was promoted to brigadier general of volunteers on the 27th of the same month. He arrived in Ponce, Puerto Rico on August 16 and participated in the occupation of Puerto Rico under General Nelson Miles. \n\nIn 1899, Grant was sent to the Philippines for service in the Philippine–American War. He arrived in Manilla on June 19 and was given command of 2d Brigade, 1st Division, 8th Corps (southern line) on July 1. On February 18, 1901, he was commissioned a brigadier general in the Regular Army. He remained in the Philippines until October 1902. \n\nWhen he returned to the United States, he held various commands and was promoted to major general in February 1906. On July 25, 1910 he as made commander of the Department of the East. On July 11, 1911, he became commander for the Eastern Division which included the Department of the East and the Department of the Gulf.\n\nFrederick Dent Grant died of cancer, the same disease that had claimed his father, at Fort Jay on Governors Island in New York City on April 12, 1912. At the time of his death, Grant was the second most senior officer on active duty in the U.S. Army after Major General Leonard Wood. He and was buried in West Point Cemetery.\n\nGrant was a hereditary companion of the Military Order of the Loyal Legion of the United States by right of his father's service in the Civil War. He joined the Military Order of Foreign Wars as a Hereditary Companion in 1896 (of which he also became a Veteran Companion after the Spanish–American War in 1898). He was also a member of the Aztec Club of 1847, the Sons of the American Revolution, the Society of Colonial Wars, the Order of the Founders and Patriots of America and the Military Order of the Carabao.\n\nIn 1874, Grant married Ida Marie Honoré (1854–1930), the daughter of Henry Hamilton Honoré, who made his fortune in Chicago real estate. Ida Marie's sister was Bertha Palmer, the wife of Chicago businessman Potter Palmer. They were married in Chicago and had two children:\n\n\nThrough his daughter, he was the grandfather of Prince Michael Mikhailovich Cantacuzène, Princess Bertha Mikhailovna, and Princess Zenaida Mikhailovna, who married Sir John Coldbrook Hanbury-Williams, son of Major-General Sir John Hanbury-Williams.\n\nThrough his son Ulysses, he was the grandfather of three girls, Edith Clara Grant (1908–1995), who married David Wood Griffiths, Clara Frances Grant (1912–2005), who married Paul Ernest Ruestow, and Julia Grant.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1943051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1943051", "title": "Charles S. Deneen", "text": "Charles S. Deneen\n\nCharles Samuel Deneen (May 4, 1863 – February 5, 1940) was an American attorney and politician who served as the 23rd Governor of Illinois, from 1905 to 1913. He was the first Illinois governor to serve two consecutive terms totalling eight years. Notably, he was governor during the infamous Springfield race riot of 1908, which he helped put down. He later served as a U.S. Senator from Illinois, from 1925 to 1931. Deneen had previously served as a member of the Illinois House of Representatives in 1892. As an attorney, he had been the lead prosecutor in Chicago's infamous Adolph Luetgert murder trial.\n\nDeneen was born in Edwardsville, Illinois, to Samuel H. Deneen and Mary Frances Ashley. He was raised in Lebanon, Illinois, and graduated from McKendree College in Lebanon in 1882. He subsequently studied law at McKendree and at Union College of Law, while supporting himself by teaching school. He was admitted to the Illinois bar in 1886. On May 10, 1891, he married fellow Methodist Bina Day Maloney in Princeton, Illinois. The couple had four children; Charles Ashley, Dorothy, Frances, and Bina.\n\nHis political career began soon thereafter, with election to the Illinois House of Representatives in 1892. Deenen was State's Attorney in the late 1890s. In 1896 Deenen appointed Ferdinand Lee Barnett as the first black assistant state's attorney in Illinois upon the recommendation of the Cook County Commissioner Edward H. Wright. Deneen and Barnett worked together closely for the next two decades.\n\nDeneen supported passage of the Illinois anti-lynching law in 1905. The state had not had many instances of lynchings, but in 1909 Will James was murdered in a spectacle lynching attended by a mob of 10,000 in Cairo, Illinois. The crowd also lynched Henry Salzner, a white man, who had allegedly killed his wife. The governor sent in National Guard troops to suppress violence. Under the 1905 state law, Deneen dismissed Sheriff Frank E. Davis for failing to protect James and Salzner and resisted local efforts to have the officer reinstated.\n\nIn 1924, Deneen defeated first-term Senator Joseph Medill McCormick in the Republican primary for the United States Senate. Illinois at that time customarily had a downstate seat and a Chicago-area seat, which McCormick held. McCormick committed suicide in early 1925, for which his widow Ruth McCormick (a future U.S. Representative) blamed Deneen. She defeated him in the 1930 Republican primary, but lost the November election to James Hamilton Lewis. In 1928 Deneen's home was bombed during an outbreak of violence among rival political factions in Chicago in advance of the Pineapple Primary election.\n\nDeneen died in Chicago on February 5, 1940, and was interred there in the Oak Woods Cemetery. The public Deneen School of Excellence was named in his honor. It is located in south Chicago next to the Dan Ryan Expressway, not far from Al Capone's former home on South Prairie.\n\nDeneen's great grandson is actor Jason Beghe.\n"}
{"id": "1943052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1943052", "title": "Lindfield railway station", "text": "Lindfield railway station\n\nLindfield railway station is located on the North Shore line, serving the Sydney suburb of Lindfield. It is served by Sydney Trains T1 North Shore line services.\n\nLindfield station opened on 1 January 1890 when the North Shore line opened from Hornsby to St Leonards.\n\nBy 1900, the line south of Lindfield had been duplicated with the platform converted to an island platform, this was extended north in 1909. By 1922, a new side platform had been opened on the eastern side, with the middle platform becoming a terminating road.\n\nLindfield Station is served by three bus routes operated by Transdev NSW and one NightRide route.\n\n"}
{"id": "1943059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1943059", "title": "Kunicon", "text": "Kunicon\n\nKunicon was a series of anime conventions organized by Subarashii Nation (formerly D20, Inc.) and held throughout the United States from December 2004 through June 2005. Originally named \"Otakucon\", the convention was renamed to \"Kunicon\" after controversy erupted over the name being similar to Otakon, an anime convention held in Baltimore, Maryland. While Kunicon's original goal was to hold a convention in twelve major cities across the United States, these plans were cut short after 4 conventions as Kunicon continued to be plagued with controversy and cost overruns.\n\nKunicon held several events over the course of a convention, including gaming competitions, cosplay contests, panels, live music concerts, anime screenings, and special performances.\n\nOriginally announced as \"Otakucon\", the convention started going by \"OtakuCon Miami Beach\" several months before the first convention in Miami, Florida. Otakon staff has reported that they had ordered a cease-and-desist, but the convention chairman, Manny Camacho, had been reported as saying that the name was simply changed to avoid confusion. When the St. Louis event was announced as the second convention, it was announced under the name \"Kunicon\".\n\nFollowing the first convention in Miami, the staff cited an attendance of 5,000 people, which precisely matched their pre-con estimate. However, pictures taken by a fan photographer was used as evidence that numbers claimed by Kunicon were inflated.\n\nKunicon continued to plan events for San Diego, St. Louis, Atlanta, and Denver. However, San Diego was quickly canceled and the next convention was held in St. Louis in March 2005. The fourth and final Kunicon was held in Denver in June 2005, but went $30,000 over budget.\n\nThe controversy came to an end when Emanuel \"Manny\" Camacho, the Kunicon chairman, announced on his LiveJournal that he was unable to contact Subarashii Nation and he could not see how the next convention, Kunicon Miami in December 2005, could take place. He also stated that the staff and employees of the convention have not been paid for their work.\n\n"}
{"id": "1943066", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1943066", "title": "Battle of Berezina", "text": "Battle of Berezina\n\nThe Battle of (the) Berezina (or Beresina) took place from November 26 to 29, 1812, between the French army of Napoleon, retreating after his invasion of Russia and crossing the Berezina (near Borisov, Belarus), and the Russian armies under Mikhail Kutuzov, Peter Wittgenstein and Admiral Pavel Chichagov. The battle ended with a mixed outcome. The French suffered heavy losses but managed to cross the river and avoid being trapped. Since then \"\"Bérézina\"\" has been used in French as a synonym for \"disaster\".\n\nAs the surviving masses of the Grande Armée struggled on for the perceived safety of the west, the Russian armies closed in on them.\n\nThe French had suffered a defeat just two weeks earlier during the Battle of Krasnoi. However, reinforcements who had been stationed near the Berezina during Napoleon's initial advance through Russia brought the numerical strength of the Grande Armée back up to some 30,000 to 40,000 French soldiers capable of fighting, as well as 40,000 non-combatants. The Russians had approximately 61,000 troops at the Berezina, with another 54,000 under Kutuzov just to the east who were approaching the river.\n\nNapoleon's plan was to cross the Berezina River and head for Poland, while his enemies wanted to trap him there and destroy him. The original plan to cross the frozen river quickly proved impossible, as the usually frozen waterway had thawed and was now impassable.\n\nThe nearby bridge at Borisov had been destroyed and most of the equipment to build a pontoon bridge had been destroyed a few days earlier. However, the commander of the bridging equipment General Jean Baptiste Eblé had disobeyed Napoleon's earlier order to abandon equipment, instead retaining crucial forges, charcoal and sapper tools and thus only needed protection from Chichagov's force on the far west bank to span the river.\n\nMarshal Oudinot was given the task of drawing off the admiral and made a move towards the south. The plan worked, and Eblé's Dutch engineers braved ferociously cold water to construct the vital bridge. Hypothermic death in less than 30 minutes of exposure was likely. The four Swiss infantry regiments acted as the rearguard. Cavalry quickly crossed it followed by infantry to hold the bridgehead. The Swiss suffered terrible losses (of the four Swiss Regiments of Oudinot's corps only 300 soldiers survived), but managed to cover both positions and the retreat. This struggle is depicted in the \"Beresinalied\". The Swiss' heroic stand saved most of the French troops.\n\nA second structure opened within hours and cannons were taken across it to bolster the defensive perimeter. They arrived just in time, as Chichagov realised his error and attacked the 11,000 French troops.\n\nBy midday of the 27th, Napoleon and his Imperial Guard were across, and the strategy now swung to saving the Swiss rearguard, which was fighting against Wittgenstein's arriving army.\n\nOne of the spans broke in the late afternoon, but more feats of engineering skill had it repaired by early evening. The corps of Marshal Davout and Prince Eugene crossed, leaving Marshal Victor's IX Corps to hold off the enemy on the east bank.\n\nBoosting his firepower with artillery from across the river, Victor held out until after midnight, when his forces were able to join their colleagues, push Chichagov aside, and continue the retreat to France. However, the 125ème and 126ème Line Regiments, consisting mostly of Dutch troops, fought until ordered to surrender, and the survivors were taken into captivity..\n\nChichagov was blamed for letting Napoleon escape, Ekaterina Ilyinichna Golenishchev-Kutuzova, the wife of Kutosov, quipped, \"Peter Wittgenstein saved St. Petersburg, my husband Russia, and Chichagov Napoleon!\"\n\nThere is considerable disagreement regarding the numbers of casualties on both sides. While some 22,000 French men became casualties, these included a great number of stragglers, many of them civilians. A higher estimate is provided by historian Jacques Garnier, who places French losses at 25,000 combatants, 25 cannon and 20,000 civilian stragglers, of whom around 10,000 were massacred by Cossacks. Russian casualties were also high, and although a very moderate 19th century Russian estimate places them at 6,000 they probably amounted to 20,000 men. Historian Alain Pigeard offers more moderate figures (combatants only): between 13,000 and 16,000 men (2000 killed, 7,000-10,000 wounded, plus the entire Partouneaux division killed, wounded or prisoners) for the French, 13,000 men (10,000 dead or wounded, 3,000 prisoners on the right bank) for the Russians. Among the French casualties were three generals and four colonels, killed during this battle. Pigeard's estimate reflects more recent research, with most modern historians placing French losses at around 15,000 combatants and 10,000 stragglers. Russian losses are usually placed at up to 8,000 combatants. According to the modern Russian encyclopedia, the Russian army lost from 8,000 to 15,000 killed, wounded and prisoners during four days; French casualties were from 25,000 to 40,000 Richard K. Riehn estimated French losses at about 30,000; most of these were stragglers, actual battle losses being relatively small with about 10,000 French and 14,000 Russians actually involved.\n\nLeo Tolstoy references the battle in his \"War and Peace\".\n\nThe Battle of Berezina is depicted in the 1956 film \"War and Peace\". The construction of a bridge over the Berezina is described in Honoré de Balzac's novel The Country Doctor.\n\nThe drama of the battle's story inspired many works of art centred on the crossing.\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "1943069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1943069", "title": "Perfect Circle (novel)", "text": "Perfect Circle (novel)\n\nPerfect Circle is a 2004 novel by Sean Stewart. It was nominated for Nebula Award for Best Novel in 2004 and the World Fantasy Award for Best Novel in 2005. It is a contemporary realistic fantasy about an exorcist in Texas.\n\nTexan William Kennedy can see and talk to ghosts - an ability which complicates his life immensely and threatens his relationships with family and friends. When his cousin calls him in to lay the ghost in the garage, Will finds he has a murderer to deal with.\n"}
{"id": "1943081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1943081", "title": "Len Small", "text": "Len Small\n\nLennington \"Len\" Small (June 16, 1862 – May 17, 1936) was an American politician. He served as the 26th Governor of Illinois, from 1921 to 1929. He also served as a member of the Illinois state senate from the 16th District from 1901 to 1903 and was Illinois state treasurer, from 1905 to 1907, and from 1917 to 1919. He is known primarily for his corruption.\n\nSmall was born in Kankakee County, Illinois, and was educated in the public schools. He attended Northern Indiana Normal School, now Valparaiso University. He taught school and invested in real estate, eventually owning a farm, a bank, and Kankakee's daily newspaper. \nIn 1883, Small married Ida Moore, and they had three children together.\n\nSmall began his political career in 1901 when he became a member of the Illinois Senate. He served in the Illinois Senate from 1901 to 1905.\nSmall was the Illinois Treasurer from 1905 to 1907, and again from 1917 to 1919. He was indicted, six months after becoming governor, for embezzling over a million dollars in a money-laundering scheme in which he misplaced state funds into a fake bank while he was state treasurer. He served as the assistant U.S. Treasurer in charge of the sub treasury at Chicago from 1908 to 1912, and was a delegate to Republican National Convention from Illinois in 1908, 1912, and 1932.\n\nSmall was elected Governor of Illinois in 1920 and was reelected in 1924. He was acquitted, but eight jurors later got state jobs, raising suspicions of jury tampering.\n\nAs governor, Small pardoned 20 members of the Communist Labor Party of America, convicted under the Illinois Sedition Act. He also pardoned or paroled over 1000 convicted felons, including Harry Guzik, brother of the Chicago Outfit's Jake Guzik, of Posen, Illinois, who was convicted of kidnapping young girls and forcing them into lives of prostitution (then commonly called white slavery).\n\nIn 1923, bootlegger Edward \"Spike\" O'Donnell of Southside Chicago O'Donnell was released from prison by Small. O'Donnell returned to Chicago as the leader of one of the most powerful bootlegging gangs in the city.\n\nSmall's reputation for corruption finally caught up with him at the ballot box when he was defeated in the 1928 Republican \"Pineapple Primary\" by a margin of 63% to 37% against Louis Lincoln Emmerson, the incumbent Illinois Secretary of State. Small would make a failed run for governor in 1932.\n\nSmall died on May 17, 1936. He is buried at Mound Grove Cemetery in Kankakee, Illinois.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1943085", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1943085", "title": "The Fall discography", "text": "The Fall discography\n\nThe Fall released many recordings following their inception in 1976, often inviting use of the tag 'prolific'. Their first release as a group was the EP \"Bingo-Master's Break Out!\" (1978), and they released a studio album at a rate of almost one a year from their debut \"Live at the Witch Trials\" in 1979 to their final album \"New Facts Emerge\" in 2017.\n\n\nTwo live tracks by the Fall also appeared on the \"\" compilation 10\" EP, in 1978.\n\nMark E. Smith, the Fall's lead singer and only constant member, has also released two albums of solo material:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1943088", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1943088", "title": "Hugh Bartlett", "text": "Hugh Bartlett\n\nHugh Tryon Bartlett DFC (7 October 1914 – 26 June 1988) was a cricketer who played as an attacking left-handed batsman for Sussex either side of World War II.\n\nBartlett was born in Balaghat, India, and moved to England at the age of nine. He captained Dulwich College for three seasons. In 1933 – his last season for the school – he hit two double hundreds in successive weeks and set a Dulwich record of 228 against Mill Hill (the record stood until 2006, when Arthur Mitchell hit 230 not out at a lower age group). He won blues at Cambridge University for three years and in 1936 captained them in the Varsity match. After a few matches with Surrey, he settled down as an amateur at Sussex.\n\nBartlett's finest year was 1938. While travelling by train to Leeds to play Yorkshire in May, his captain Jack Holmes told him : \"If you score 50 I will give you your cap ... a 50 against Yorkshire is worth 150 against any other county.\" Sussex lost their first five wickets for 106 when Bartlett joined Harry Parks. They added 126 in 75 minutes of which Bartlett scored 94. The bowlers were Bill Bowes, Hedley Verity, Frank Smailes, Emmott Robinson and Cyril Turner. He hit seven sixes (all off Verity) and nine fours. In two overs by Verity, Bartlett scored 062660 and 006606. The last six was his final scoring shot as he tried to hit Smailes over long off and was caught by Maurice Leyland \"with his heels on the boundary and left hand outstretched\". Bartlett was duly awarded his county cap.\n\nLater at Lord's, Bartlett made 175 not out in his first appearance for Gentlemen against the Players. One six off Morris Nichols deposited the ball in a grandstand turret. He hit Nichols for five fours in an over, Peter Smith for two fours and two sixes off another. In all, he hit 24 fours and four sixes in 165 minutes. His last 75 runs came in 46 minutes; with last man Ken Farnes (10), he added 82 in 45 minutes. \"I do not recall\", wrote the Cricketer correspondent, \"even Jessop treating professional bowling quite so roughly as he did in this innings\".\n\nOn 27 August, the Australians came to Hove and Bartlett hit 157 in two hours. He scored his 50 in 33 minutes, 100 in 57 minutes and 150 in 110 minutes. A pull off Frank Ward early on landed on the pavilion roof. Later he hit two fours and two sixes off successive balls from Ward in an over that went for 22 runs. The century won Bartlett the Lawrence trophy for the fastest hundred of the season and included six sixes and eleven fours. He scored 104 runs before lunch in just over an hour before slowing down. The fourth wicket partnership with James Langridge contributed 195 in 120 minutes – Bartlett 152, Langridge 39. The innings included six sixes and eighteen fours. Once again he fell to an extraordinary catch, this time by Sid Barnes low down at long on.\n\nWith 1548 runs at 57.33, Bartlett finished fifth in the averages (behind Wally Hammond, Joe Hardstaff, Jr., Len Hutton and Eddie Paynter). \"Wisden\" elected him as a Cricketer of the Year in the 1939 edition. He hit 40 sixes in 1938, second only to Arthur Wellard. Immediately after his innings against Australia, when Arthur Fagg dropped out, Bartlett was added to the English team to tour South Africa that winter. He toured and scored 358 runs at an average of 51.14 in the first-class matches but did not play in any of the Tests. A year later, he was selected for the planned Indian tour under the captaincy of Jack Holmes, but the Second World War led to its cancellation.\n\nIn the nostalgic piece about Bartlett that he wrote for \"Cricket Heroes\", Alan Ross remembered his batting style :\n\nIn the 57 minute hundred against the Australians, Bartlett scored just four in his first 14 minutes.\n\nIn 1939, at Eastbourne against Worcestershire he scored 89 in 44 minutes. He was caught by Charles Palmer at deep extra cover off a hit that, like the one against Yorkshire in 1938, would have gone for six had he missed it. At the end of the season, he played in what was to be Hedley Verity's last match before he died in the Second World War. On a drying wicket Verity took 7 for 9, Bartlett being one of the victims.\n\nIn the Second World War, Bartlett was commissioned into the Royal Army Service Corps. He transferred to the Royal West Kent Regiment in 1942, served in the Glider Pilot Regiment and later served as the second-in-command to Billy Griffith. He served at Normandy, Arnhem and in the Rhine crossings.\n\nDuring the Rhine campaign (Operation Varsity), his pilots included Welsh rugby union centre Bleddyn Williams, who had piloted in a cargo of medical and radio supplies. Having spent a week sleeping rough, he bumped into Bartlett on a Friday morning: \"Williams, aren't you meant to be at Welford Road tomorrow playing for Great Britain against the Dominions? They need you. Go now!\" Williams caught the last supply plane to RAF Brize Norton that night, and although the team didn't win he did score a try. He turned out for both the RAF and the Great Britain United rugby teams.\n\nIn August 1945, he was awarded the Distinguished Flying Cross. He reached the rank of Major. He remained in the Territorial Army after the war, returning to the RASC.\n\nAfter the war, except the odd occasion, he wasn't the stroke player that he had been. He served as Billy Griffith's vice captain at Sussex in 1946 and took over the captaincy for the next three seasons. In 1947, he lifted Sussex from bottom to ninth place, but they slipped back to 16th and 14th in the next two years. He scored more than a thousand runs in 1938, 1939 and 1947. Before the 1950 season, he resigned the captaincy following some disputes and returned to stockbroking. Later, he reconciled with the club and served as the President between 1977 and 1979.\n\nHe collapsed and died while watching Sussex play Yorkshire in a Sunday League match at Hove in 1988.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1943090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1943090", "title": "List of Chief Ministers of KaNgwane", "text": "List of Chief Ministers of KaNgwane\n\n"}
{"id": "1943097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1943097", "title": "Fogelsville, Pennsylvania", "text": "Fogelsville, Pennsylvania\n\nFogelsville is a village in Lehigh County, Pennsylvania, in the United States. It is a suburb of Allentown, in Upper Macungie Township, in the Lehigh Valley region of the state.\n\nFogelsville is named after Judge John Fogel, who built the first building in the area, a hotel, in 1798.\n\nFogelsville surrounds a number of large industrial parks and corporate centers. The town is known as a large regional trucking hub.\n\nMajor roads servicing Fogelsville include Interstate 78 and Pennsylvania Route 100. These two roads intersect in a cloverleaf, which is one of the busiest in the western Lehigh Valley.\n\nWhile the village of Fogelsville can be found at ZIP code 18051, immediately surrounding areas to the east and south use the Allentown ZIP code of 18106 or the Breinigsville ZIP code of 18031, respectively. Downtown is located at approximately 40° 34′ 59.45″ N, 75° 37′ 57.37″ W. The 1990 census reported a population of 900, although a more recent estimate places the population at about 3200.\n\nFogelsville was once the terminus of the Catasauqua and Fogelsville Railroad (later extended to Rittenhouse Gap) and the site of extensive iron ore mining to supply the iron furnaces of the Lehigh Valley.\n\nFogelsville was the former home to Penn State Lehigh Valley, a satellite campus of Penn State University. Founded in 1912, it is the oldest of all of Penn State's satellite campuses.\n\nFogelsville is the location of Minority Health Care Communications, Inc, founded in 2002. MHCC Inc. is the steward organization of The National Conference on African-Americans and AIDS, National Conference on Latinos and AIDS, and The National Conference on African-Americans and Cancer.\n\nOne of the six Yocco's Hot Dogs restaurants, the Lehigh Valley-based fast food establishment known for their hot dogs and cheesesteaks, is located in Fogelsville, on Pennsylvania Route 100. The original Yocco's, founded in 1922, was located in center city Allentown, on West Liberty Street.\n\n"}
{"id": "1943099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1943099", "title": "The Very Best of The Velvet Underground", "text": "The Very Best of The Velvet Underground\n\nThe Very Best of The Velvet Underground is a compilation album by The Velvet Underground. It was released in Europe on March 31, 2003, by Polydor, the record label that oversees the band's Universal Music Group back catalog.\n\nThe album was released following a Hyundai television commercial, which featured the band's 1970 recording \"I'm Sticking with You\" from the \"Fully Loaded\" edition of \"Loaded\". The version included in this compilation is from the 1969 \"VU\" album, despite a sticker's claim to the contrary on the front cover.\n\nAll tracks performed by The Velvet Underground except † The Velvet Underground & Nico. All titles written by Lou Reed except as noted.\n\n\nTracks 3, 6, 8–9, 12, & 17 taken from \"The Velvet Underground & Nico\" (1967); Tracks 5, 10, 14 taken from \"White Light/White Heat\" (1968); Tracks 4, 7, 13, & 15 taken from \"The Velvet Underground\" (1969); Tracks 1 & 18 taken from \"Loaded\" (1970); Tracks 2, 11, & 16 taken from \"VU\" (1985).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1943101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1943101", "title": "Kōraku-en", "text": "Kōraku-en\n\nIn 1687, the \"daimyō\" Ikeda Tsunamasa ordered Tsuda Nagatada to begin construction of the garden. It was completed in 1700 and has retained its original appearance to the present day, except for a few changes by various \"daimyōs\". The garden was originally called Kōen (\"later garden\") because it was built after Okayama Castle. However, since the garden was built in the spirit of \"sen-yu-koraku\" (\"grieve earlier than others, enjoy later than others\"), the name was changed to Kōrakuen in 1871.\n\nThe Korakuen is one of the few \"daimyō\" gardens in the provinces where historical change can be observed, thanks to the many Edo period paintings and Ikeda family records and documents left behind. The garden was used as a place for entertaining important guests and also as a spa of sorts for \"daimyōs\", although regular folk could visit on certain days.\n\nIn 1884, ownership was transferred to Okayama Prefecture and the garden was opened to the public. The garden suffered severe damage during the floods of 1934 and by bombing damage in 1945 during World War II. It has been restored based on Edo-period paintings and diagrams. In 1952, the Kōrakuen was designated as a \"Special Scenic Location\" under the Cultural Properties Protection Law and is managed as a historical cultural asset to be passed to future generations.\n\nThe garden is located on the north bank of the Asahi River on an island between the river and a developed part of the city.\nThe garden was designed in the Kaiyu (\"scenic promenade\") style which presents the visitor with a new view at every turn of the path which connects the lawns, ponds, hills, tea houses, and streams.\n\nThe garden covers a total area of approximately 133,000 square meters, with the grassed area covering approximately 18,500 square meters. The length of the stream which runs through the garden is 640 meters. It features a central pond called Sawa-no-ike (Marsh Pond), which contains three islands purported to replicate the scenery around Lake Biwa near Kyoto.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1943102", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1943102", "title": "Spindle turning", "text": "Spindle turning\n\nSpindle turning, or turning between centers, is a woodturning method referring to a piece of wood on a wood lathe that is being turned on its center axis.\n\nFor spindle turning, the wood is held on the lathe either by both ends (between the headstock and tailstock) or by one end only using a lathe chuck \n\nWood is generally removed by running a turning tool down the slope of the wood from a larger diameter in the wood to a smaller diameter.\n\nSpindle turning is the method used for items such as chair and table legs, lamps, cues, bats, pens, candlesticks etc. i.e. long and thin objects.\n\n"}
{"id": "1943113", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1943113", "title": "Henry Horner", "text": "Henry Horner\n\nHenry Horner (November 30, 1878 – October 6, 1940) was an American politician. Horner served as the 28th Governor of Illinois, serving from January 1933 until his death in October 1940. Horner was noted as the first Jewish governor of Illinois.\n\nHorner was born Henry Levy to Solomon Abraham Levy and Dilah Horner in Chicago. He assumed the Horner surname after his parents divorced in 1883. He attended the University of Chicago. Horner attended IIT Chicago-Kent College of Law and received is LLB in 1898. Horner was a lawyer and served as a probate judge from 1915 to 1931.\n\nFirst elected governor in 1932, Horner served during the difficult years of the Great Depression. Because of a fiscal crisis in Illinois during his first term in office, he was forced to ask the General Assembly for new tax revenue. In 1933, he signed Illinois's first permanent sales tax law into effect with an inaugural rate of 2.0%. Horner also signed a bill in 1935 increasing the Illinois sales tax rate to 3.0%.\n\nHorner's administration was marked by integrity and a strong commitment to both conservative fiscal management and the needs of the indigent and those in state institutions. His insistence on stopping graft and keeping state payrolls free of non-working patronage appointees put him at odds with the Democratic political organization of Chicago run by Patrick Nash and Mayor Edward Joseph Kelly. They backed a rival candidate in the 1936 primary, whom Horner defeated with the help of a large downstate vote.\n\nHorner went on to win re-election in November 1936 and was now determined to defeat the Kelly-Nash machine. He supported the election of Scott W. Lucas to the Senate in 1938 to succeed retiring incumbent William H. Dieterich, who had proven to be anti-Semitic and somewhat pro-German.\n\nHorner suffered a stroke four days before the November election and spent five months recovering in Florida before returning to Illinois, too late to mount the campaign he had wanted to lead against the re-election of Mayor Kelly. Horner's health wavered over the next year until a collapse in the summer of 1940. He convalesced in Winnetka and Highland Park, Illinois from June 1940 until his death, in early October. Horner was succeeded by Lt. Governor John H. Stelle, who had been one of his greatest political enemies. Horner was a member of Temple B'rith Sholom in Springfield, Illinois.\n\nHorner is interred at Zion Gardens Cemetery in the Mt. Mayriv section, a Jewish cemetery in the Dunning neighborhood of Chicago. A Jewish summer camp in Ingleside, a suburb of Chicago, is named Camp Henry Horner after him. Horner, a lifelong bachelor, collected memorabilia related to Abraham Lincoln and bequeathed it to the people of Illinois. The Horner Collection is now stored and partly displayed in the Abraham Lincoln Presidential Library and Museum in Springfield, Illinois. Horner Park, located in Chicago, is a facility bordered by Montrose Avenue to the north, Irving Park Road to the south, California Avenue to the west, and the north branch of the Chicago River to the east. The Governor Horner State Memorial is located in Horner Park. The Chicago Housing Authority built the Henry Horner Homes, a public housing project on Chicago's near–west side; named in honor of Governor Horner in 1957.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1943120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1943120", "title": "Chicharrón", "text": "Chicharrón\n\n, as a dish with sauce, or as finger-food snacks, are popular in Andalusia in Spain, Latin America and other places with Spanish influence including the Southwestern United States. It is part of the traditional cuisines of Bolivia, Portugal (where it is called ), Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Haiti, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Guam, Guatemala, Honduras, El Salvador, Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama, Peru, the Philippines, Puerto Rico, Venezuela and others. The singular form of the term or a variant of it is also used as a mass noun in Filipino and Tagalog, in which stand-alone plurals do not exist. are usually made from various cuts of pork but sometimes with mutton, chicken or other meats. In some places they are made from pork ribs with skin attached and other meatier cuts rather than just rinds.\n\nThe pork rind variant is the skin of the pork after it has been seasoned and deep fried often to a crispy, puffy state. Other styles may be fatty or meaty, not fried as much, and sometimes attached to ribs or other bones. In Mexico, they are eaten in a taco or with . Serving styles vary widely, including main course, side dish, filling for tortillas and other bread, the meat portion of stews, and as finger-food snacks.\n\nIn Brazil, it is known as \"torresmo\". The dish may be seasoned with garlic, pepper, and/or other spices. It is cooked in its own fat or oil; the finished product is typically complemented with a wedge of lime.\n\n is made of pork ribs seasoned with garlic, oregano and lemon. It is boiled then cooked in its own fat, adding beer or to the pot for more flavor. Pork chicharrón is normally served only on Sundays and is eaten with , a tomato salsa, and , a type of corn (maize). There are other variations of chicharrón made with chicken and fish.\n\n is a traditional Quebec dish consisting of deep-fried smoked pork jowls. It is generally served in cabanes à sucre (sugar shacks) in spring time, traditionally topped with maple syrup.\n\n is made from deep-fried pig skin with meat attached, but it can also be made from chicken skin. In the Caribbean coast, it is eaten along with , or boiled yuca at breakfast at home or at any time of the day at restaurants. It is eaten chopped as a stuffing in . In Córdoba, it is also prepared in . It is also part of , a typical dish of Antioquia.\n\n are made of fat, sometimes with a bit of meat, and are typically served with homemade bread.\n\n are made by frying pork (usually ribs) in fat, and are associated with several dishes. Most Costa Ricans eat them with or lime juice and fried yuca, accompanied by tortillas. They are also a main ingredient in a popular dish called , which also combines red beans, rice, and .\n\n is usually eaten with tostones. It is prepared by washing and drying pork and cutting it into small pieces, which are seasoned with a mix of lemon juice and salt.\n\n are often filled with chopped as a stuffing.\n\nThe dish is known in the local Chamorro language as , derived from the food's Spanish name.\n\n is eaten with tortillas, lime, guacamole, and Moronga. Sometimes served with Pico de Gallo or Chirmol salsa. Also known as in Guatemala, these refer to a meatier part of the pork rind. Where a is, strictly speaking, skin and fat, denotes skin with some meat as well. (In other places, \"carnitas\" generally refers to fried pork meat without skin or a stew-like dish made from it.)\n\nBesides made from pig skin and fat, snack-food companies Barcel and Sabritas have commercialized vegetarian versions (primarily made of puffed cornmeal batter) with chile and lemon flavorings since the 1980s. are also distributed by many salty snack companies in Mexico, sold in supermarkets, and made and sold by markets, , and street vendors. ( wrapped in a tortilla with some avocado, creamy cheese (such as , , or ), and sometimes, hot sauce) are popular as snacks, appetizers, or a main dish. Popular dishes that make use of as a main ingredient include and .\n\n in Perú is made using what is called \"country-style pork rib\" in the United States. The rind (skin and attached fat) is not used at all; instead, the meat is boiled with seasonings and spices until no water remains and then fried in its own fat. It is often served as a breakfast or brunch food on a baguette with a relish made of red onion and lime juice. can be eaten as an appetizer or snack, and the chicken variant can taste like fried chicken found in the United States. Sides include a kind of red onion relish, fried yuca, and other regional variants. can also be prepared with fish rather than pork.\n\n, less commonly spelled , is ubiquitous, as it is a well-loved snack, and may be bought anywhere, from large supermarket chains to small neighborhood stores and street vendors. It is popular as or tapas food to be eaten while consuming alcoholic beverages. It is also used as a topping on many native vegetable and noodle dishes. Pork is prepared by deep-frying dried pork rind with a little salt. It may be dipped in coconut vinegar spiced with soy sauce, chopped garlic and chili peppers, or eaten with other condiments like anchovies, gravy sauce, or papaya salad. \n\nAside from pork rind, chicken skin may also be made into , whereas —literally 'flower chicharrón', named for its distinctive shape—is made from pig offal. \n\nTuna-skin is marketed as a healthier variation. In Cagayan, water buffalo hide is used to make \"carabao chicharon\".\n\nA distinct variant of \"chicharon\" involves cooking pork loin and meat in the same way, becoming \"bagnet\". While similar and dissimilar to crispy pata, it is more popular as a meal than finger food, and has found its way to contemporary dishes and restaurants. Bagnet originates from Ilocos where it has been served since the 1960s.\n\nDeep fried chicken in a batter made with flour is called . is a popular dish in which green plantains are fried then mashed with and other ingredients. is a popular dish in Puerto Rican , using a pork chop () with rib, fat, and skin still attached, then marinated. is deep-fried, forming of crispy skin attached to the rib and pork-chop meat. The city of Bayamón – nicknamed the \"city of \" – is famous for the produced locally, as is the Guavate barrio in the city of Cayey.. is a popular in Puerto Rican fried rice with added sofrito, pigeon peas, spices and other ingredients.\n\nAmerican-style pork rinds are usually made from pig skin and fat without meat. They are commonly seasoned and sold in plastic bags, like corn and potato chips (crisps) as a \"junk food\" item. Some brands in the Southwest use the Spanish term , and Mexican-style dishes are available in many Mexican and Southwestern restaurants in the region. In the Deep South, traditional home-cooked pork rinds are called \"cracklings\" or (colloquially) \"cracklins\". They are made in a two-step process: the pork skin is first rendered and dried, and then fried and puffed. In New Mexico, the term is often taken to mean just fried pork fat, sometimes with incidental bits of lean meat.\n\nIn central Venezuela, are eaten with and also commonly sold alongside main highways as snacks. The recipe usually produces crispy sizable portions of pork skin with the underlying meat. The type are also made with pork skin and marinated in vinegar instead of deep fried. They are eaten as a snack.\n\nPork rind is also eaten in many other countries in forms unrelated to the tradition. For example, in Denmark, is pork skin deep-fried with or without a layer of fat. It is usually eaten as a snack, like crisps (chips) or popcorn. At Christmas-time it is also traditional to eat fried strips of pork belly the skin on, with or without meat in addition to fat.\nIn the countryside in Greece, during Christmas time people prepare \"Tsigarídes\" which is deep fried pork belly skin.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1943127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1943127", "title": "Ernst T. Krebs", "text": "Ernst T. Krebs\n\nErnst Theodore Krebs, Jr. (May 17, 1911 – September 8, 1996), known as Ernst T. Krebs, was a notorious American \"conman\" (abbr. confidence-man) who promoted various substances as alternative cures for cancer, including pangamic acid and amygdalin. He also co-patented the semi-synthetic chemical compound closely related to amygdalin named laetrile, which was also promoted as a cancer preventative and cure. His medical claims about these compounds are not supported by scientific evidence and are widely considered quackery.\n\nKrebs was born in Carson City, Nevada, on May 17, 1911. His father was Ernst Theodore Krebs, Sr. (September 26, 1876 - January 25, 1970), a physician who promoted a syrup as treatment for various ailments which was later deemed fraudulent, seized, and destroyed, and later promoted the enzyme chymotrypsin as a cancer remedy. Krebs, Jr. would ultimately work closely with his father in promoting Laetrile and pangamic acid.\n\nKrebs attended Hahnemann Medical College for three years, including one year spent repeating the first year but was expelled after failing out of his courses. Krebs later attended college in various states including Mississippi, California and Tennessee and ultimately received a Bachelor of Arts degree from the University of Illinois, after failing science courses at the various colleges. Although he claimed to have a Ph.D. from the University of Illinois, and his supporters often refer to him as \"Dr. Krebs,\" his only doctoral degree was an honorary degree from the now defunct American Christian College in Tulsa, OK, which was a small bible college not accredited to award any advanced degrees. He would later spend two years doing graduate work in anatomy, but was dismissed for \"his pursuit of what was deemed unorthodox.\"\n\nHe died at his home in San Francisco, California on September 8, 1996. He was not related to Hans Adolf Krebs, the biochemist known for discovering the Krebs cycle.\n\nKrebs advocated the view, first introduced in 1902 by John Beard and revived by Krebs and his father in the 1940s and 1950s, that all forms of cancer arise from undifferentiated cells called trophoblasts. Krebs Sr. revived this theory by the embryologist Beard from Scotland to promote one of his cancer cures, chymotrypsin. Although this theory had been rejected by cancer researchers, Krebs Jr. nevertheless incorporated this theory as one of the explanations for the mechanism of action for Laetrile against cancer cells as well. This mechanism was subsequently abandoned as he later claimed Laetrile was instead a vitamin.\n\nPangamic acid, also called \"pangamate,\" and \"vitamin B,\" is the name given to the chemical compound described as d-gluconodimethylamino acetic acid with the empirical formula CHON and purportedly isolated from apricot seeds. It was initially promoted by Ernst T. Krebs, Sr. and his son Ernst T. Krebs, Jr. as a medicinal compound for use in treatment of a wide range of diseases. They also termed this chemical \"Vitamin B,\" though it is not a true vitamin, has no nutritional value, has no known use in the long term treatment of any disease and has been called a \"quack remedy.\" Although a number of compounds labelled \"pangamic acid\" have been studied or sold, no chemical compound, including those claimed by the Krebses to be pangamic acid, has been scientifically verified to have the characteristics that defined the original description of the compound.\n\nAmygdalin, CHNO, is a glycoside initially isolated from the seeds of a cultivar of the almond tree, \"Prunus dulcis\" var. \"amara\", also known as bitter almonds, by Pierre-Jean Robiquet and Antoine-François Boutron-Charlard (1796-1879) in 1830, and subsequently investigated by Liebig and Wöhler in 1830, and others.\n\nIt was promoted in a modified form called laetrile as a cancer cure by Ernst T. Krebs, Jr. under the name \"Vitamin B\", but studies have found it to be ineffective. It is also not a vitamin, and can cause cyanide poisoning. The promotion of laetrile to treat cancer has been described in the scientific literature as a canonical example of quackery, with Irving Lerner of the University of Minnesota describing it as \"the slickest, most sophisticated, and certainly the most remunerative cancer quack promotion in medical history.\"\n"}
{"id": "1943137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1943137", "title": "Progymnasmata", "text": "Progymnasmata\n\nProgymnasmata (Greek προγυμνάσματα \"fore-exercises\"; Latin \"praeexercitamina\") are a series of preliminary rhetorical exercises that began in ancient Greece and continued during the Roman Empire. These exercises were implemented by students of rhetoric, who began their schooling between ages twelve and fifteen. The purpose of these exercises was to prepare students for writing declamations after they had completed their education with the grammarians.\nThere are only four surviving handbooks of progymnasmata, attributed to Aelius Theon, Hermogenes of Tarsus, Aphthonius of Antioch, and Nicolaus the Sophist.\n\nComposition was not a primary subject taught in schools until the fifth century. In fact, the term “progymnasmata” first appeared in Chapter 28 of Rhetoric to Alexander, most likely written by Anaximenes of Lampsacus in the late fourth century. This work is preserved alongside those of Aristotle, yet he never mentions the use of preliminary exercises. But Aristotle does touch on the rhetorical forms, which became an aspect within the nature of progymnasmata. The use of preliminary rhetorical exercises is discussed briefly in some Greek and Roman dialogues, but all handbooks from that time remain lost today.\nThere are only four known surviving handbooks of progymnasmata. The earliest one is that of Theon, written some time during the first century A.D. In his introduction, Theon addresses teachers rather than students and criticizes students who skip out on these preliminary exercises.\nThe second handbook is attributed to one of the most influential rhetoricians of the second century, Hemogenes of Tarsus. But there is no preface to his work and the exercises are brief; therefore, many doubt its authenticity. But the third handbook is attributed to Aphthonius of Antioch, student of the great sophist Libanius during the second half of the fourth century. This is the most widely used and referenced handbook that became the standard on the practice of progymnasmata. His treatises were combined with rhetorical treatises of Hermogenes on stasis theory and style to create the “Hermogenic Corpus.”\nThe final handbook is attributed to Nicolaus of Myra, who taught rhetoric in Constantinople during the late fifth century.\n\nAlthough the exercises expressed in each known handbook are very similar, there are several minor variations between them. But because the work of Aphthonius is the one most widely recognized and practiced, these variations are often unrecognized. All students were asked to write out each assignment, memorize it, and then perform a class oration. The progymnasmata were taught in order, increasing in difficulty as the course advances. The courses were organized to begin with story-telling and end with making an argument. There was a focus on literature as a supplement to the course, paying close attention to models of rhetoric and literature. The progymnasmata of Aphthonius was first translated to Latin in the fifteenth century by Rudolphus Agricola.\n\nAesop's fables were popular at the time rhetoric became a common topic of study. There are three forms of fable: the rational form (where characters are men and women), the ethical form (where animals are protagonists), and a third form involving both. What all three have in common is they each have a moral, stated before the story begins or after it has concluded. In Aphthonius's handbook, the first exercise was to create a fable that followed the three forms.\n\nThis elementary assignment was to simply write a narrative (not to be confused with fable). It is assumed that this training is a result of Aristotle's theory of categories and introduces students to the four values of narrative, which is perspicuity, incisiveness, persuasiveness, and purity of language. The content of the narrative exercise in the progymnasmata is either political, historical, or based on fiction. Just as diegesis indicates the narrative plot of a film, the so-called narrative of a speech or oration moves the content forth.\n\nStudents were asked to take an action or saying of a famous person and elaborate on it. They were to develop the meanings of these actions or quotes with the framing under the headings of praise, paraphrase, cause, example of meaning, compare and contrast, testimonies, and an epilogue; anecdote is something that is frequently used in the Bible.\n\nMaxim or proverbs were first described by Aristotle, and in Aphthonius's book are divided into, protheptic, apotreptic, declarative, simple, and compound. A moral generalization was given to students about a writer, and they were asked to create something similar to an anecdote about the writer.\n\nThis exercise required the student to logically reason against something drawn from myths, narratives, or fables. The student's argument was that something was either impossible, illogical, unsuitable, and inexpedient.\n\nThe confirmation exercise is the opposite of refutation. The student was asked to reason in favor of something drawn from legends and literature.\n\nWorking out the commonplace involved attacking vice by envisioning criticism of stereotypes rather than individuals. Students do this by using contradiction, comparison, and maxim attacking the motivation of the demographic described.\n\nStudents used encomium to praise persons, things, times, places, animals, and growing things. Each praise could be engendered from the headings upbringing, deeds, skills, and sometimes was in the form of a comparison with another person, an epilogue, or a prayer.\n\nInvective opposes commonplace. It attacks a specific, named individual, usually a political or cultural figure.\n\nThe comparison exercise acts as a double encomium or a combination of an encomium of one person or thing and the invective against another.\n\nStudents used personification or ethopoeia by forming a speech ascribed to the ghost of a known person or of an imaginary or mythological character from past, present, or future times. This exercise was intended to request students to perform it with clarity, conciseness, and floridity.\n\nWhen asked to use ekphrasis to describe a person, place, thing, or time, students were obliged to produce a description that was complete. Included was detailed information about a person from head-to-toe, an action from start to finish, etc. This form is seen in many classical literature and historical writings.\n\nBecause this exercise is an introduction to argument in the philosophical schools, the use of thesis was not performed until first completing all previous exercises. Students had to come up with a thesis argument of their own nature; these questions were often ones difficult to answer.\n\nAphtonius calls this final exercise a gymnasma rather than progymnsasmata. This exercise is in the form of advocacy of a proposed law or opposition of it. The argument is first stated, a counterargument follows, and then the headings are discussed\n\nIn the past few years there has been considerable effort expended to see if the Progymnasmata could be adapted for use in elementary, middle and high school education. One of the leaders in this effort is James Selby, the author of the Classical Composition series, who has reduced the composition curriculum used by Quintilian and Cicero, to a level that can be effectively used by fourth through twelfth grade students.\n\nRhetorica and Progymnasmata is taught as a mandatory class in Sremski Karlovci, Serbia at Gymnasium of Karlovci high school, focusing on preparing students at early age for public speaking, as well as teaching classical rhetorics.\n\nThe progymnasmata is also taught at Highlands Latin School in Louisville, KY, as well as at Highlands Latin Cottage Schools (homeschooling support tutorials) around the United States.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1943139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1943139", "title": "Kate Carmack", "text": "Kate Carmack\n\nShaaw Tláa, also known as Kate Carmack ( – 29 March 1920), was a Tagish First Nation woman who was one of the party that first found gold in the Klondike River in 1896, and is sometimes credited with being the person who made the actual discovery.\n\nBorn near Bennett Lake, she lived with her parents, and seven sisters and brothers, near Carcross, Yukon. Her father, Kaachgaawáa, was the head of the Tlingit crow clan, while her mother, Gus’dutéen, was a member of the Tagish wolf clan. Her name in Tlingit means \"gumboot mother\". As a young woman, she married her first cousin, Kult’ús. In the early 1880s, her husband and their infant daughter died of influenza in Alaska, at which time Shaaw Tláa returned to her village. It was here, in 1887, that Shaaw Tláa's brother, Keish (Skookum Jim Mason), and nephew, Dawson Charlie (K̲áa Goox̱) started a packing, hunting, and prospecting partnership with George Washington Carmack, an American. She became Carmack's common-law wife within the year. She took the name Kate Carmack.\n\nBeginning in 1889, and for the next six years, the couple lived in the Forty Mile region. Carmack prospected, trapped, and traded, while Shaaw Tláa made winter clothing that she sold to miners. They had one daughter, Graphie Grace Carmack (born 1893, Fort Selkirk).\n\nKate and her husband were fishing for salmon at the mouth of the Klondike River in August 1896, when a party led by her brother, including two nephews, came looking for her. The party then discovered gold in Rabbit Creek (later renamed Bonanza Creek), setting in motion the Klondike Gold Rush. Some accounts claim that Kate made the actual discovery.\n\nAfter becoming wealthy, the Carmacks moved to Hollister, California, to live with Carmack's sister, Rose Watson (later known as Rose Curtis). Subsequently, Carmack left California, Kate, Graphie, and his former partners. Kate and Graphie stayed with Rose. George Carmack married Marguerite Laimee in 1900 in Olympia, Washington. Kate, unable to prove she was George's lawful wife and deemed ineligible for alimony, returned to Carcross in July.\n\nKeish built her a cabin near his, and daughter, Graphie attended mission and residential schools in Carcross and Whitehorse that were run by Bishop William Carpenter Bompas, before Graphie moved to Seattle, Washington.\n\nKate Carmack died of influenza during the worldwide influenza epidemic of 1918-1920 in Carcross.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1943141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1943141", "title": "Hermogenes of Tarsus", "text": "Hermogenes of Tarsus\n\nHermogenes of Tarsus () was a Greek rhetorician, surnamed The Polisher (). He flourished in the reign of Marcus Aurelius (AD 161–180).\n\nHis precocious ability secured him a public appointment as teacher of his art while he was only a boy, attracting the note of the emperor himself; but at the age of twenty-five his faculties gave way, and he spent the remainder of his long life in a state of intellectual impotence.\nAccording to legend, he probably fell victim to a disease which resulted in meningitis, such as measles or yersinia. Philostratus of Lemnos notes he continued in this pitiable state until dying at an advanced age. Allegedly, Antiochus used to taunt him: \"Lo, here is one who was an old man among boys and now among the old is but a boy.\" The \"Suda\" records a rumor that after his death his heart was found to be enormous and covered in hair.\n\nDuring his early years, however, he had composed a series of rhetorical treatises, which became popular textbooks, and the subject of subsequent commentaries. We still possess some sections:\n\nIn \"On Types of Style\", Hermogenes identifies seven, rather than the traditional three—high, medium and low—elements of style. First is clarity, because of its importance. Clarity is subdivided into purity, which is sentence-level clarity, and distinctness, which is about over all organization. The next category, grandeur is subdivided into six parts, but generally clumped into four sections: solemnity and brilliance are the first section and are very similar. Solemnity is using short, abstract statements about elevated topics; brilliance takes those abstracts down to specifics, and is longer. The third part of grandeur is amplification. The last section of grandeur comprises three parts: asperity, vehemence and florescence. Asperity for sharp criticism, vehemence for disdain and florescence to ameliorate strong feelings. The category of beauty is not subdivided. The next type of style is rapidity—quick short sentence, rapid replied, sudden turns of thought in antithesis. The fifth style is \"ethos\" which is subdivided into simplicity, sweetness, subtlety and modesty. The last style, gravity, is the correct balance of all six of these types of style.\n\nIn the Renaissance the famous publisher, book- and type designer Aldus Manutius introduced the Hermogenean rhetorical corpus to the Western European reader. The works of Hermogenes appeared in the Aldine series. The 19th century Hugo Rabe edition of the \"Opera Hermogenis\", with Latin introduction, is based upon various editions, a.o. the Aldine edition.\n\nMichel Patillon has translated the entire Hermogenic corpus into French, with copious annotations. Malcolm Heath has translated \"On Issues\" () into English, and Cecil W. Wooten has translated \"On Types of Style\" into English. A Dutch translation of \"On Types of Style\" appeared in late 2006.\n\nMikael Johansson has tried to apply the unique rhetorical schemes of Hermogenes on some of the declamations of Libanius.\n\nAnnabel Patterson wrote a book about Hermogenean style, rhetorical categories, and its influence on Renaissance writers, such as William Shakespeare. Hugh Blair also mentions Hermogenes in his work on rhetoric.\n\nThere seems to have been yet another Hermogenes of Tarsus, remembered for being put to death by Emperor Domitian because of some allusions in his \"History\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1943156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1943156", "title": "Mark Evans (musician)", "text": "Mark Evans (musician)\n\nMark Whitmore Evans (born 2 March 1956) is an Australian musician, currently bass guitarist for the Australian rock band Rose Tattoo, and also an early member of hard rock band AC/DC from March 1975 to June 1977. His playing featured on their albums \"T.N.T\", \"High Voltage\", \"Dirty Deeds Done Dirt Cheap\", \"Let There Be Rock\" and \"'74 Jailbreak\". Evans has played for numerous other groups, sometimes on lead guitar, including Finch (a.k.a. Contraband), Cheetah, Swanee, Heaven and The Party Boys. Evans' autobiography, \"Dirty Deeds: My Life Inside/Outside of AC/DC\" was released in December 2011.\n\nMark Whitmore Evans was born on 2 March 1956 and raised in Melbourne, Australia. He was originally a guitarist and early in 1975 he was introduced to hard rockers AC/DC at the Station Hotel, Melbourne, by his friend and the band's roadie, Steve McGrath. AC/DC had formed in 1973 and had released a debut album, \"High Voltage\", earlier that year. At the time, Malcolm Young was playing bass guitar in a four-piece line up alongside his brother Angus Young on lead guitar, Phil Rudd on drums and Bon Scott on vocals. Evans had been working as a clerk in the pay section of the Postmaster-General's Department when he auditioned for AC/DC and joined in March on bass guitar, allowing Malcolm to switch back to rhythm guitar.\n\nEvans learned all the songs from the original version of \"High Voltage\" overnight and did not meet Scott until the next gig. In April, with Evans, AC/DC's first TV appearance was on pop music series \"Countdown\". They played \"Baby, Please Don't Go\" (see \"Family Jewels\") with Scott dressed as a school-girl. Evans appeared in several promotional videos, including the \"It's a Long Way to the Top (If You Wanna Rock 'n' Roll)\" and \"Jailbreak\" film clips. His playing is featured on their early albums \"T.N.T\" (1975), \"High Voltage\" (international version, 1976), \"Dirty Deeds Done Dirt Cheap\" (1976) and \"Let There Be Rock\" (1977); and the EP \"'74 Jailbreak\" (1984).\n\nIn May 1977, after the recording of \"Let There Be Rock\", Evans was sacked from AC/DC due to \"musical differences\" and personality clashes with Angus. He was replaced by Cliff Williams. Scott stated in an interview in 1977 that one reason for replacing Evans was that Williams had several more years’ experience playing bass guitar. Also, Malcolm Young said to Evans that they needed a bass player who could sing (to enhance the backing vocals). At the time, Evans stated, \"Both me and the band are better for it\". Neither of the Young brothers has aired their views on the split, but the CEO of Epic Records, Richard Griffiths, who worked as a booking agent for AC/DC in the mid-1970s, stated, \"[Y]ou knew Mark wasn't going to last, he was just too much of a nice guy\". Evans' last gig with the band was in Germany in 1977.\n\nAfter his departure from AC/DC, Evans played in a number of bands including hard rockers, Finch (a.k.a. Contraband), from June 1977 to 1979. This was followed by short stints with Cheetah in 1980 and Swanee in 1982. Evans joined heavy metal group, Heaven briefly in September 1983, on guitar as a replacement for Mick Cocks (ex-Rose Tattoo) following the recording of their \"Where Angels Fear to Tread\" album, but he left by July 1984. Evans featured in promo videos for \"Rock School\" and \"Where Angels Fear to Tread\". The group had some high-profile support slots, including opening for Mötley Crüe on their 'Shout at the Devil' tour, Kiss on their 1983-84'Lick It Up' tour, their first without make-up, as well as the Ian Gillan led Black Sabbath. Evans has performed with ex-Buffalo singer Dave Tice in various bands, Headhunter, Dave Tice Band and Tice & Evans. He was a member of The Party Boys in the early 1990s. Dave Tice and Mark Evans release their latest recording 'Brothers In Arms' through Lungata Records and MGM Distribution 27 October 2011.\n\nIn November 2002, the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame announced that AC/DC were to be inducted in 2003, ex-members Mark Evans and Bon Scott were both on the list; however six weeks later Evans' name was dropped without explanation. In January 2003, Peter Holmes, writing for \"The Sun-Herald\", said that Evans was devastated by the reversal. Paul Cashmere of \"Undercover\" noted that eight of the twenty-eight songs in AC/DC's 2000-2001 Stiff Upper Lip Tour set-list were originally recorded with Evans, Cashmere could not understand why the nomination was withdrawn \"despite Mark's front-line position in the band's most important period\". According to Allmusic's Eduardo Rivadavia, Evans was \"cruelly denied induction into the Rock & Roll Hall of Fame, in 2003, along with his former band mates\". This situation may be linked to the long legal battle that Mark Evans waged against AC/DC, and which was finally settled out of court.\nMark Evans' autobiography, \"Dirty Deeds: My Life Inside/Outside of AC/DC\" was released in North America in December 2011 by Bazillion Points.\n\nIn August 2017 it was announced that Evans had officially joined Rose Tattoo as their permanent bassist. He recorded with Rose Tattoo on their 2020 release Outlaws.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1943165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1943165", "title": "Bradley Field", "text": "Bradley Field\n\nBradley Field may refer to several places:\n\n"}
{"id": "1943166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1943166", "title": "Abbotsbury, New South Wales", "text": "Abbotsbury, New South Wales\n\nAbbotsbury is a suburb of Sydney, New South Wales, Australia 39 kilometres west of the Sydney central business district in the local government area of the City of Fairfield. Abbotsbury is part of the Greater Western Sydney region.\n\nMost of the suburb's estates were built in the late 1980s and early 1990s, although a few acres of undeveloped land in the north-west area was subdivided and developed in the early 2010s. \nThe western border of the suburb is delineated by a line of pine trees, which gives privacy to the homes backing onto the farmlands.\n\nAbbotsbury was named from Major Edward Abbott, a Canadian born soldier who arrived in New South Wales in 1790. Abbott was granted land in what is now Abbotsbury in 1806 although sold it to William Browne in 1810. The estate remained intact until the late 19th century when it was subdivided into small farms and it remained a rural area until the late 20th century when residential subdivision began. The name for the suburb was approved in 1991.\n\nAccording to the , there were 4,253 residents in Abbotsbury. 62.7% of residents were born in Australia. The most common countries of birth were Iraq 7.0%, Italy 3.5%, Vietnam 2.7%, Philippines 1.5% and Croatia 1.4%. \n\nThe most common ancestries were Italian 18.4%, Australian 12.3%, English 9.3%, Assyrian 6.4% and Croatian 4.4%.\n\n51.9% of people only spoke English at home. Other languages spoken at home included Assyrian Neo-Aramaic 7.0%, Italian 6.5%, Arabic 4.5%, Vietnamese 3.5% and Spanish 3.3%.\n\nThe most common responses for religion were Catholic 56.0%, No Religion 7.0%, Eastern Orthodox 6.7%, Anglican 4.7% and Assyrian Church of the East 4.3%. Overall, Christianity was the largest religious group reported overall (84.4%).\n\nAbbotsbury is best known for Calmsley Hill Farm, which is located on the western side of the suburb.\n\nIn the north-west of the suburb lies the Western Sydney Parklands, which sits on a hilly ridge. On these large hills there are a few recreational spots, such as \"Moonrise Lookout\" and \"Sugarloaf Ridge\". They are both adjacent to each other and would feature a panoramic view of all of Sydney, where the city skyline may be seen from there. Families enjoy to picnic and walk in these area, and even come here to view the new years fireworks from Sydney Harbour.\n\nThe suburb has a small shopping complex, including a grocery store, a vet, a hairdressers, a barber, a cafe and a small Italian restaurant. Abbotsbury's telephone and internet runs off the Edensor Park Exchange. iiNet's and TPG's ADSL2+ service as well as general ADSL, Cable and NBN are available in the area.\n\nAbbotsbury is also one of the safest suburbs in Western Sydney, due to the fact that the only entrance is on the east. The North and West of Abbotsbury leads to a national park and there are no roads here although there are a number of firetrails.\n\nAbbotsbury is serviced by the region three bus operator Transit Systems. The 808 and 806 buses come through here. The most common form of transport used by residents is private vehicle.\n\nThe Western Sydney cycling path passes through Abbotsbury. Stretching far along Western Sydney, the cycling path passes through the \"Calmsley Hill City Farm\" (previously known as \"Fairfield City Farm\"), which is located at the Western Sydney Regional Park. Calmsley Hill City Farm was used during the 2000 Sydney Olympics for the mountain biking events. The biking tracks remain.\n\nThe suburb also has a sporting field named Stockdale Reserve. It is mainly used for soccer cricket and rugby league, depending on the time of year. Adjacent to this park, there are several ponds, home to many species of birds, mainly ducks. Within the Reserve is a shared pathway for pedestrians and cyclists\n\nIn 2015, the median sale price of houses in the area was $1,198,750. Abbotsbury contains some large properties on the outskirts, some blocks reaching sizes over half of an acre, which is rare to find in the suburbs of Sydney. Withers Place, located in the north of Abbotsbury, is the most expensive and affluent with a medium price of $1,700,000.\n"}
{"id": "1943170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1943170", "title": "KIPCO", "text": "KIPCO\n\nKuwait Projects Company (Holding), known as KIPCO, is an investment holding company in the Middle East and North Africa (MENA) region, with consolidated assets of US$34.2 billion as of 31 December 2018. The group has significant ownership interests in a portfolio of over 60 companies operating across 24 countries. The group's main business sectors are financial services, media, real estate and manufacturing. Through its core companies, subsidiaries and affiliates, KIPCO also has interests in the education and medical sectors.\n\nKIPCO was incorporated on 2 August 1975 under Article 94 of the Kuwaiti Commercial Companies Code, Law No. 15 1960. \nSince incorporation, the company has grown substantially and made significant investments in a diversified portfolio of companies operating throughout the GCC and the wider MENA region.\n\nKIPCO is a strong supporter of promoting transparency of operations, thereby launching its annual Shafafiyah (transparency) investors’ forum in 2004. In this forum, KIPCO and its Group companies shed light on ethical and responsible decision making methods, while safeguarding the integrity of financial reporting. KIPCO has made timely and balanced disclosures, while efficiently recognising and managing risk.\n\nKIPCO's principal shareholder is Al Futtooh Holding Company (AFH), a Kuwaiti holding company owned by members of the Kuwaiti ruling family, with a direct holding of 44.7% as of 30 June 2019. The remainder of the shares are primarily held by institutions, equity funds, high-net-worth individuals and retail investors.\n\nThe following table sets out the percentage holdings of the company's shareholders as at 30 June 2019:\nThe principal subsidiaries and associates of KIPCO are in the financial services and real estate sectors, and KIPCO also has a joint venture in the media sector. The remaining companies of the group and its associates operate in the service and industrial sectors.\n\nThe table below sets out the KIPCO's principal companies:\n\nThe key elements of the group's strategy are to:\n\n\nThe group and its associates have a presence in the following countries in the MENA region:\nThe Protégés is a mentorship program designed to provide young people with opportunities to learn life and leadership skills, through combination of travel, lectures, group activities, challenges and games for around 6 weeks. Around 25 Protégés are selected based on a thorough screening process ensuring that they meet high standards of excellence. KIPCO is the strategic partner of the program and is supported by nine Group companies.\n\nDyslexia Campaign is KIPCO's initiative for public awareness about Dyslexia. The campaign – which featured TV and press advertising to highlight the problems faced by those people suffering from dyslexia – was the first of its kind in the Persian Gulf region. In 2008 KIPCO won an award for the campaign on dyslexia at Kuwait's first Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Awards.\n\n"}
{"id": "1943173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1943173", "title": "Abbotsford, New South Wales", "text": "Abbotsford, New South Wales\n\nAbbotsford is a suburb in the Inner West of Sydney, in the state of New South Wales, Australia. Abbotsford is 10 kilometres west of the Sydney central business district in the local government area of the City of Canada Bay. Abbotsford sits on the peninsula between Abbotsford Bay and Hen and Chicken Bay, on the Parramatta River.\n\nAbbotsford took its name from Abbotsford House, owned by Sir Arthur Renwick. He named his property after Abbotsford House in the United Kingdom, the residence of historical novelist and poet, Sir Walter Scott.\n\nAbbotsford was first known by its Aboriginal name Bigi Bigi.\n\nThe suburb was originally part of Five Dock Farm and when subdivided in 1837, was called Feltham. Sir Arthur Renwick, a doctor, philanthropist and politician built his home here in 1890 and called it Abbotsford House in honour of Sir Walter Scott's home. Renwick sold his property in 1903 to Albert Grace, and in 1918 it became the site of a Nestlé chocolate factory, with the house used initially for chocolate production and later as their administrative offices. The factory was closed in 1991, after which the area was redeveloped as the medium-density Abbotsford Cove housing complex.\n\nAustralian poet Henry Lawson did not die in Abbotsford House in 1922, as is sometimes claimed, but at the home of Mrs Isabella Byers at 437 Great North Road, recently demolished. Abbotsford House is now listed on the Register of the National Estate.\n\nAccording to the of the population, there were 5,373 residents in Abbotsford. 64.0% of people were born in Australia. The most common countries of birth were Italy 5.5%, England 3.4% and China 3.1%. 66.0% of people only spoke English at home. Other languages spoken at home included Italian 9.0%, Mandarin 3.0%, Cantonese 2.2% and Greek 2.1%. The most common responses for religious affiliation were Catholic 38.6%, No Religion 23.7% and Anglican 10.2%.\n\nState Transit run a bus route through Abbotsford and a ferry wharf provides access to Parramatta River ferry services. Electric trams operated to Abbotsford until their replacement by buses in 1954.\n\nAbbotsford has a small group of shops on Great North Road. \n\nAbbotsford Public School is a local primary school at 350 Great North Road. \n\nAbbotsford Sailing Club and Sydney Rowing Club sit on the Parramatta River, at the end of Great North Road. Abbotsford houses the rowing sheds for Sydney Boys High School, Newington College and MLC School.\n\n"}
{"id": "1943175", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1943175", "title": "Acacia Gardens, New South Wales", "text": "Acacia Gardens, New South Wales\n\nAcacia Gardens is a suburb of Sydney, in the state of New South Wales, Australia, 40 kilometres west of the Sydney central business district, in the local government area of the City of Blacktown. Acacia Gardens is part of the Greater Western Sydney region.\n\nAcacia Gardens was formerly a part of Quakers Hill. The name was chosen to reflect the rural quality of the suburb, with acacia trees being prevalent in the area. Many of the streets in the suburb are named after flowers. It was formally recognised as a suburb in 1996.\n\nAccording to the of the population, there were 3,798 residents in Acacia Gardens. 56.2% of people were born in Australia. The next most common countries of birth were India 11.7% and the Philippines 5.5%. 53.9% of people only spoke English at home. Other languages spoken at home included Punjabi 6.9%, Hindi 5.1% and Tagalog 3.3%. The most common responses for religious affiliation were Catholic 28.0%, No Religion 14.0%, Hinduism 11.6%, Anglican 10.5% and Sikhism 5.9%.\n\nAcacia Gardens has just one primary school, Quakers Hill East Public School. Quakers Hill East was founded in 1959 on Lalor Road, Quakers Hill. In 2002, the school was moved to Acacia Gardens but the name remained unchanged. Nearby, there are two other public primary schools (Barnier and Hambledon). Government High schools in nearby suburbs include Quakers Hill High School, Wyndham College and Glenwood High School NSW. There are also nearby Catholic primary schools (Mary Immaculate and Blessed John XXIII Primary). Nearby Catholic high schools include St. John Paul II Catholic College (prev. Terra Sancta College) and St Mark's Catholic College.\n\nBusways provides regular services to Blacktown, Castle Hill, Rouse Hill, Plumpton, St Marys and Macquarie. The closest railway stations are located at Quakers Hill and Blacktown. Hillsbus provides services to Parramatta and Sydney CBD from neighbouring Stanhope Gardens.\n\nThe suburb is served by Wilson station on the North-West T-way.\n"}
{"id": "1943179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1943179", "title": "Agnes Banks, New South Wales", "text": "Agnes Banks, New South Wales\n\nAgnes Banks is a suburb of Sydney, in the state of New South Wales, Australia. Agnes Banks is 68 kilometres north-west of the Sydney central business district, in the local government areas of the City of Penrith and City of Hawkesbury. It is part of the Greater Western Sydney region.\n\nAgnes Banks is connected to Penrith by Castlereagh Road which runs alongside the Nepean River between Richmond and Penrith. Natural woodlands and sandy deposits make up the higher landscape of this suburb. Agnes Banks is a rural outpost of the City of Penrith which has kept its intrinsic agricultural value and rural lifestyle.\n\nThis area was settled as early as 1803 by Charles Palmer. He was the first man to receive the free land grants in 1803, he and his wife Mary Anne built the first Farm Slab House in 1803. The 3 chimneys still stand near the corner of Castlereagh Rd and Springwood Rd. The name \"Agnes Banks\" comes from Thompson's mother's name, Agnes. The town here was once known as 'Little Richmond'.\n\nAgnes Banks has a number of heritage-listed sites, including:\n\nAccording to the of the population, there were 911 residents in Agnes Banks. 83.7% of residents were born in Australia. The other most common countries of birth were Malta 3.0%, England 2.8% and New Zealand 1.1%. 88.1% of residents spoke only English at home. Other languages spoken at home included Maltese 2.6%, Macedonian 1.4% and Greek 0.7%. The most common responses for religious affiliation were Catholic 35.8%, Anglican 19.7% and No Religion 17.7%.\n\n"}
{"id": "1943181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1943181", "title": "Airds, New South Wales", "text": "Airds, New South Wales\n\nAirds is a suburb of Sydney, in the state of New South Wales, Australia. Airds is 56 kilometres south-west of the Sydney central business district, in the local government area of the City of Campbelltown and is part of the Macarthur region.\n\nAirds is a predominantly residential area and the majority of houses within the suburb are owned by Housing NSW.\n\nGovernor Lachlan Macquarie named the region Airds, after the Scottish family estate of his wife Elizabeth.\n\nAirds appeared in land grant lists, and referred to almost the entire area between Glenfield and Gilead. The name fell into disuse as Campbelltown and other settlements along the valley floor came to be known by their individual names after the 1820s.\n\nIn January 1975, tenders for the first homes in the Housing Commission's 'Kentlyn' subdivision were called but the name Airds was not approved until May 1976.\n\nAccording to the of the population, there were 2,926 residents in Airds.\n\nSchools in the suburb include:\n\nThe Airds Bradbury Renewal Project environmental assessment report says the project will make the suburbs \"a great place to live, a place with good services and facilities in a socially mixed community offering opportunities for residents to realise their goals\".\n\nThis will involve taking the area from 94 per cent public housing to only 30 per cent.\n\n\"As a result of this concentration of disadvantage, the community of Airds Bradbury experiences a range of social issues including high unemployment and poor health, low income, high percentage of single parent families, a lack of access to educational opportunities and other services and high crime rates,\" the report says.\n\nThe report concludes that planned changes to the neighbourhood will have many positive social impacts.\n\nMore than 500 houses will be demolished, a 1000 new homes and 52 seniors housing units will be built, new roads will go in and community facilities, public areas and parks will get a makeover.\n\n\nThe men's shed supports the community by creating a space providing \"activity, identity and meaning\" for its members.\n\nWorkVentures Connect Centre at Airds runs free training and skills programs and support in finding employment for local residents. The centre offers free access to computers and the internet, and access to free legal and tenancy advice for Housing NSW residents.\n\nThe Connect Centre at Airds is one of two centres run by WorkVentures in the Campbelltown area.\n\nMeets to try to make sure that Housing N.S.W's relocation works for tenants\n\nA hub for community renewal projects and activities. The Housing N.S.W Airds Bradbury renewal team is based here \nas well.\n"}
{"id": "1943184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1943184", "title": "Akuna Bay, New South Wales", "text": "Akuna Bay, New South Wales\n\nAkuna Bay is an urban place in Sydney, Australia. Akuna Bay is located north of the Sydney central business district, in the local government area of Northern Beaches Council.\n\nAkuna Bay sits in the Kuring-gai Chase National Park and takes its name from the bay on Coal and Candle Creek. It can be accessed by a marina on the bay or by Liberator General San Martin Drive.\n\nAkuna was thought to be an Aboriginal word meaning \"to follow\". It actually is a mangled version of the Dieri word \"ngaka-rna\" meaning \"to flow\".\n\nIn 1972 the construction of a marina was proposed and it was completed in 1974.\n"}
{"id": "1943185", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1943185", "title": "Songs from the Black Hole", "text": "Songs from the Black Hole\n\nSongs from the Black Hole is an unfinished, unreleased album by the American rock band Weezer recorded between 1994 and 1996. Intended to follow Weezer's 1994 self-titled debut album, it was to be a rock opera that expressed songwriter Rivers Cuomo's mixed feelings about rock-and-roll success. Its characters were to be voiced by Cuomo, guitarist Brian Bell, bassist Matt Sharp, and Weezer collaborator Karl Koch, plus guest vocalists Rachel Haden of That Dog and the Rentals and Joan Wasser of the Dambuilders.\n\nCuomo recorded demos for \"Songs from the Black Hole\" over Christmas 1994, and Weezer held recording sessions over the following year. At the end of 1995, Cuomo enrolled at Harvard University, where his songwriting became darker and more confessional. Feeling the \"Black Hole\" concept was \"too whimsical\", he abandoned it; Weezer's second album became \"Pinkerton\" (1996), including some songs once intended for \"Songs from the Black Hole.\"\n\nTwo \"Songs from the Black Hole \"tracks, \"I Just Threw Out the Love of My Dreams\" and \"Devotion\", were released as B-sides on \"Pinkerton\" singles. Demos, lyrics and sheet music were released across Cuomo's compilations \"\" (2007), \"\" (2008), and \"\" (2011)\",\" and on the 2010 \"Pinkerton\" reissue\".\"\n\nWeezer's self-titled debut album was released in May 1994. It was certified platinum in January 1995 for sales of over one million. Songwriter Rivers Cuomo said the success \"stirred up a lot of mixed feelings in me \"–\" 'Yay, I'm happy' as well as 'I'm not sure this is the life I want to lead'.\" He had developed an inferiority complex about rock music, saying: \"I thought my songs were really simplistic and silly, and I wanted to write complex, intense, beautiful music.\" Touring with Weezer, he listened to the operas \"Aida\" (1871) and \"Madama Butterfly\" (1904), the rock opera \"Jesus Christ Superstar\" (1970), and the musical \"Les Misérables\" (1980). Inspired by how these works married music and narrative, he decided to write a rock opera to explore his feelings about relationships, fame, and his life as a touring musician.\n\n\"Songs From the Black Hole\" was to be a science-fiction rock opera with tracks that segued seamlessly, ending with a coda that revisited the album's major musical themes. The characters were to be voiced by Cuomo, guitarist Brian Bell, bassist Matt Sharp, and Weezer collaborator Karl Koch, along with guest vocalists Rachel Haden of That Dog and the Rentals, and Joan Wasser of the Dambuilders.\n\nIn 2126, the spaceship \"Betsy II \"embarks on a galaxy-wide mission. Crew members Wuan (Bell) and Dondó (Sharp) are in high spirits, but the ship's captain, Jonas (Cuomo), has mixed feelings. The ship's robot, M1 (Koch), urges the crew to stay focused on their objective. Jonas becomes involved in a love triangle with \"good girl\" Laurel (Haden), and the ship's cook, \"bad girl\" Maria (Wasser), with whom he fathers a child. When the \"Betsy II\" reaches its destination, Jonas is disillusioned and longs to return to a simpler life.\n\nCuomo conceived the story as a metaphor for his conflicted feelings about touring in a successful rock band. The ship's name \"Betsy II\" is taken from Weezer's first tour bus, nicknamed Betsy; M1 represents Weezer's management and record label; Wuan and Dondó represent the part of Cuomo that was excited about success; Jonas represents his doubts and longing; Laurel and Maria represent his relationships with women.\n\nCuomo recorded demos for \"Songs from the Black Hole\" on an 8-track recorder at his family home in Connecticut over Christmas 1994. Most of the songs already existed and were rewritten to fit the \"Songs for the Black Hole \"concept. Cuomo performed every part himself, pitch-shifting his voice for the female characters. To add a science fiction element to Weezer's sound, he used synthesizers including an Electrocomp 101 he had recently purchased from a pawn shop in rural Connecticut. By February, he had completed an initial track list. \n\nWhile Weezer was on tour in Europe later that month, Sharp returned to America due to a family emergency, leaving the band stranded in Hamburg for a week. Cuomo and drummer Patrick Wilson rented a studio and recorded additional demos, including a version of \"Blast Off!\" using a vocoder for the robot character of M1.\n\nIn March 1995, Cuomo, who was born with one leg shorter than the other, had extensive surgery to lengthen his leg followed by months of painful physiotherapy. This affected his songwriting, as he would spend long periods hospitalized under the influence of painkillers. According to Cuomo, around this time the rock opera concept \"started to feel too whimsical for where I was emotionally, going through the pain of the procedure ... I went to a more serious and dark place\".\n\nRecording began in August 1995 in New York City's Electric Lady Studios, where Weezer had recorded their debut album, but the sessions were not productive. Further sessions were held in September and October, and Weezer recorded versions of \"Blast Off!\", \"Longtime Sunshine\", \"I Just Threw Out the Love of My Dreams\", \"Tired of Sex\" and \"Getchoo\". Weezer had not yet abandoned \"Songs from the Black Hole\", but the songs were recorded, according to Koch, with \"no story, no theatrics, no characters\".\n\nAt the end of 1995, wanting to \"escape the limelight\", Cuomo enrolled at Harvard University to study classical composition. Becoming socially isolated, and still recovering from surgery, Cuomo's songwriting became, according to Koch, \"darker, more visceral and exposed, less playful\". In January 1996, Weezer restarted recording in Los Angeles at Sound City Studios with new material. The \"Songs from the Black Hole\" tracks \"Superfriend\", \"She's Had a Girl\" and \"Dude, We're Finally Landing\" were recorded, but shelved.\n\nBy May 1996, Cuomo had settled on a new direction for Weezer's second album, expressing his loneliness and frustration at Harvard, and \"Songs from the Black Hole\" was abandoned. The decision was influenced by that year's release of \"Return of the Rentals\", the debut album by Sharp's band the Rentals, as Cuomo felt it shared many musical and lyrical themes.\n\nWeezer's second album became \"Pinkerton\"\",\" released on September 24, 1996. It includes \"Tired of Sex\", \"Getchoo\" and \"No Other One\": songs written before \"Songs from the Black Hole\" was conceived, rewritten to fit the \"Black Hole \"concept, and finally rewritten again for \"Pinkerton\". In June 1996, after \"Pinkerton\"<nowiki>'s completion, Weezer recorded the </nowiki>\"Songs from the Black Hole\" tracks \"I Just Threw Out the Love of My Dreams\" (with Haden on vocals) and \"Devotion\" as B-sides for the singles \"El Scorcho\" and \"The Good Life\" respectively. \n\nIn 1998, Cuomo discussed releasing a compilation of his demos with Weezer's record label Geffen Records, including \"Songs from the Black Hole\" tracks, but the label feared it would \"dilute\" the Weezer brand. Fans petitioned to have \"Songs from the Black Hole\" released. In 2007, after further negotiation with Geffen, Cuomo released \"\", a compilation of his demos recorded from 1992 to 2007. It includes five \"Songs From the Black Hole \"demos: \"Longtime Sunshine\", \"Blast Off!\", \"Who You Callin' Bitch?\", \"Dude, We're Finally Landing\", and \"Superfriend\". It was followed in 2008 by \"\", which includes \"Oh Jonas\", \"Please Remember\" and \"Come to My Pod\". \n\nIn 2010, Geffen released a \"deluxe\" reissue of \"Pinkerton,\" including Cuomo's demo of \"You Won't Get With Me Tonight\" and a version of \"Longtime Sunshine\" recorded at Electric Lady Studios in August 1995. In 2011, Cuomo released \"\", including a \"Suite from the Black Hole\" comprising \"Oh No, This Is Not For Me\", \"Tired of Sex\", \"She's Had a Girl\", \"What is This I Find?\", \"Now I Finally See\" and \"Longtime Sunshine\". \"Alone III\" was sold exclusively with a book, \"The Pinkerton Diaries\", which collects Cuomo's writing from the era, including \"Songs from the Black Hole \"lyrics and sheet music.\n\nReviewing \"Alone\", \"Pitchfork\" critic Jason Crock felt that the \"Songs from the Black Hole\" demo \"Blast Off!\" was the \"crown jewel\", writing: \"It is such a fleeting rush of distortion-driven joy that the edges of the supposed dialogue are entirely blurred, and are hardly essential to enjoy it.\" He described it as \"at least\" on par with the \"stellar\" \"Pinkerton\" B-sides once intended for \"Songs from the Black Hole\". Reviewing \"Alone II\", Crock wrote that its \"Songs from the Black Hole\" demos were \"goofy, off-the-cuff, and charming\".\n\nIn 2007, \"Rolling Stone\" included \"Songs from the Black Hole\" on its list of music lost \"mythical masterpieces\". \"Complex\" included it on its 2012 list of \"50 unreleased albums we'd kill to hear\", writing that most of Weezer's best material came from the era. In 2014, the \"NME\" included it on its list of \"25 unreleased albums we'd really love to hear\", but wrote that \"Pinkerton\" was \"not exactly the worst second prize\". \"Vice \"wrote that \"Songs from the Black Hole \"\"deserves to be ahead of most records in every Weezer fan's collection\", declaring it better than most of Weezer's output since.\n\nIn 2017, \"Stereogum\" writer Pranav Trewn speculated about how Weezer releasing \"Songs from the Black Hole\" instead of \"Pinkerton\" might have influenced music: \"It’s perhaps the greatest 'what if?' in modern music ... What rock looks like both on the radio and in the underground would be enormously different if not for the varying shades [Weezer] popularized.\"\n\nCuomo compiled two \"Songs from the Black Hole\" track lists: the first in February 1995 and the other in late 1995.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1943186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1943186", "title": "Alexandria, New South Wales", "text": "Alexandria, New South Wales\n\nAlexandria is an inner-city \nsuburb of Sydney, New South Wales, Australia. Alexandria is located 4 kilometres south of the Sydney central business district and is part of the local government area of the City of Sydney. The postcode is 2015.\n\nThe rough boundaries of Alexandria are Botany Road to the east, Gardeners Road to the south, Mitchell Road and Sydney Park to the west, and Boundary Road to the north. It is approximately 2 km south of Central Station.\n\nThe Parish of Alexandria was established in 1835. The naming of Alexandria and neighbouring Waterloo, commemorates the famous British Empire military and naval victories over Napoleon. The Iron Duke Hotel in Alexandria, itself named after the heroic Duke of Wellington, as is Wellington Street in Waterloo. It was thought Alexandria may have been named after Princess Alexandra, Queen consort of King Edward VII however, Alexandra was born on 1 December 1844 and the parish's naming predates the birth of Alexandra by six years.\n\nIn 1868, the Municipality of Alexandria was formed, after separating from Waterloo. The former Alexandria Town Hall is in Garden Street. Land for the building was acquired in 1879; the building was designed by Ferdinand Reuss Snr and completed in 1881. Major alterations took place over the years, right up to 1928. The building is listed on the State Heritage Register.\n\nBy 1943, Alexandria was the largest industrial district in Australia, and known as the \"Birmingham of Australia\", with everything from bricks to aeroplanes manufactured in 550 factories in just . The municipality was abolished upon merger into the City of Sydney in 1949, along with Darlington, Erskineville, Newtown, Redfern, Waterloo, Paddington and The Glebe.\n\nIn 1968 the boundaries were changed again and Alexandria was part of a new municipality, South Sydney Council. South Sydney was brought back into the City of Sydney in 1982 and then became separate again under the City of Sydney Act of 1988. In 2004, Alexandria moved back into the City of Sydney, when the City of Sydney was merged with the City of South Sydney.\n\nThe former Alexandria tram line opened in 1902 as a single-track electric line that was duplicated in 1910. The line branched off from the Botany line at the junction of Henderson and Botany Roads in Alexandria. The line proceeded down Henderson Road then swung left into Mitchell Road. A turn-back was provided at Ashmore Road (near Erskineville Oval) for short working. The line turned right into the present day Sydney Park Road (then known as an extension of Mitchell Road) before terminating at the junction with the Cook's River line at the Princes Highway near St Peters railway station. Services operated from Circular Quay in a route similar to the Botany line as far as the Henderson Road junction. The line was closed in 1959. Sydney Buses route 308 generally follows the route as far as St Peters station.\n\nAlexandria has a number of heritage-listed sites, including:\n\nAt the , Alexandria had a population of 8,262.\n\nAlexandria is a largely industrial suburb with medium to high density residential areas. The suburb was once mostly terraced housing, that was demolished for light industrial use and warehousing which continues to this day. Pockets of quiet residential areas remain along the northern boundary of the suburb, adjoining Erskineville and Waterloo.\n\nVirgin Atlantic Airways has its Australia offices on Level 3 Eastside in the Sydney Corporate Park in Alexandria.\n\nAlexandria is part of the Green Square district, in the north east of the suburb, which is undergoing gentrification. This involves an urban renewal project that is constructing modern retail, business and medium-high density residential developments.\n\nEstablished in September 2009, its main purpose was to meet the community demand for local markets, providing fine produce and a venue for local handmade crafts. The children's activities kept the little ones entertained with face painting and a kids zoo. It was open every Sunday 10am - 3pm at 75-85 O'Riordan St Alexandria however, it has unfortunately been temporarily closed.\n\nAlexandria is serviced by State Transit routes to the Sydney CBD. Alexandria is close to two railway lines on the Sydney Trains network. Green Square railway station, located on the north-eastern fringe, is on the Airport, Inner West & South Line. Erskineville railway station and St Peters railway station are serviced by the Bankstown Line. Both are within easy walking distance, to the west of Alexandria.\n\n\nSydney Park is a large recreational area on the western border. Alexandria Park and McKell Playground are situated on Buckland Street. Tennis courts and a cricket oval are located here. Erskineville Oval is just over the western border. Erskineville Oval is the home ground of the Alexandria Rovers junior rugby league team. The Alexandria Dukes Rugby Football Club play in the New South Wales Suburban Rugby Union competition and will again contest the Meldrum Cup in 2014. The club rooms for the Dukes are at the Iron Duke Hotel.\n\nA number of popular pubs are located in the suburb including the Alexandria Hotel, Iron Duke Hotel, Buckland Hotel and the Parkview Hotel on Mitchell Road.\n\n"}
{"id": "1943188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1943188", "title": "Alfords Point, New South Wales", "text": "Alfords Point, New South Wales\n\nAlfords Point is a suburb in southern Sydney, in the state of New South Wales, Australia. Alfords Point is 28 kilometres south of the Sydney central business district, within the local government area of the Sutherland Shire. Alfords Point shares the postcode of 2234 with neighbouring suburbs of Menai, Bangor and Illawong.\n\nAlfords Point is on the southern bank of the Georges River. The suburb is nearly completely surrounded by bushland from the Georges River nature Reserve and with Alfords Point Road within its eastern border running south to north onto the Alfords Point Road Bridge across the Georges River towards Padstow. Brushwood Drive is the only road to enter and exit Alfords Point.\n\nJane Alford, widow of John Alford Senior owned of land near here in 1828. Alford was originally the name given to an area of public reserve on the bank of the Georges River.\n\nWhen the Sutherland Shire was officially formed in 1906, the western boundary extended to what is today called Menai (then called Bangor). In 1922, a proclamation was made to allow for an adjustment of the shire boundaries and include the areas which are now Illawong and Alfords Point. The area was formerly attached to the Municipality of Hurstville. Modern Alfords Point began to develop alongside the Menai Town Centre initiative in the late 1970s-1980s with large plots of bushland divided for housing development.\n\nAlfords Point residents have been victim to bushfires, perhaps the most infamous being those of the 1994 Eastern seaboard fires which claimed many homes in the area, particularly those directly neighbouring the Georges River National Park. Other recent bushfires in the area occurred in Summer 1997/98 and Summer 2001/2002, however, damage to property was limited due to improved bush prevention as a result of the 1993/94 disaster.\n\nAccording to the of Population, there were 3,109 people in Alfords Point. 76.1% of people were born in Australia. 76.9% of people only spoke English at home. Other languages spoken at home included Greek 7.4% and Arabic 4.6%. The most common responses for religious affiliation were Catholic 32%, Orthodox 16.1%, Anglican 14.6% and No Religion 13.1%.\n\nAlfords Point has a small group of shops on Brushwood Drive adjacent to Alfords Point Public School. Shops include a hair salon, pharmacy, convenience store, Charcoal Chicken & Pizza take-away and the Menai Dance Centre.\n\nAlfords Point contains two sporting ovals, one named Casuarina Road Oval positioned on Casuarina Road and the other named Narina Park positioned on Coachwood Crescent, which are used for soccer and cricket in local competitions. Narina Park also hosts the Alfords Point Community Centre, which can be hired out from Sutherland Shire Council. Natural bushland is abundant in this area, as Alfords Point is positioned on the shores of the Georges River and National Park, with many walking tracks and firetrails popular amongst locals in summer.\n\nAlfords Point Primary school K-6 is a community-oriented school that often hosts community events and functions. Alfords Point Pre-School Kindergarten, an early learning centre, is located opposite the shops.\n"}
{"id": "1943189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1943189", "title": "Allambie, New South Wales", "text": "Allambie, New South Wales\n\nAllambie is a location in the Northern Beaches Council local government area, in Sydney, New South Wales, Australia. It has been designated an \"Urban Place\" by the Geographical Names Board of New South Wales.\n"}
{"id": "1943193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1943193", "title": "Allambie Heights", "text": "Allambie Heights\n\nAllambie Heights is a suburb of Northern Sydney, in the state of New South Wales, Australia 17.5 kilometres north-east of the Sydney central business district in the local government area of Northern Beaches Council. It is part of the Northern Beaches region.\n\nAllambie is an Aboriginal word that means \"peaceful place\". An estate by that name was subdivided and auctioned in 1918. It is likely that a \"goat track\" that roughly follows the existing Allambie Road today was used by the Aboriginal people to access the ocean beaches at nearby Manly. The suburb was developed in the late 1940s and early 1950s. Allambie Heights Post Office opened on 1 February 1961.\n\nMany of the streets in Allambie Heights are named after notable battles (particularly where Australian Troops served), and prominent allied political leaders of World War II. These include Moresby Place, Owen Stanley Avenue, Wewak Place, Kirra Road, Libya Crescent, Derna Crescent, Tobruk Avenue, Anzio Avenue, Roosevelt Avenue and Churchill Crescent. Darmour Ave is probably named after the Battle of Damour and simply a misspelling.\n\nAllambie Heights has a number of heritage-listed sites, including:\n\n\nAccording to the of Population, there were 7,009 residents in Allambie Heights. 71.0% of people were born in Australia. The most common countries of birth were England 7.6%, New Zealand 2.1%, China 1.8% and Italy 1.6%. 83.9% of people only spoke English at home. Other languages spoken at home included Mandarin 1.8% and Italian 1.6%. The most common responses for religious affiliation were No Religion 33.7%, Catholic 28.1%, and Anglican 18.1%.\n\nThe main business area in Allambie Heights consists of an IGA supermarket, newsagent, delicatessen, bakery, community centre and the local primary school. It is also home to the Warringah Aquatic Centre. The suburb is also home to a range of retirement villages including the Italian Scalabrini Village and the German Lutheran Homes. There are also a number of care centres for the disabled including The Sunnyfield Association, The Cerebral Palsy Alliance and Allambie Special School.\n\nAllambie Heights is home to three schools:\n\nAllambie Heights is bordered to the south by Manly Dam Reserve, (also known as War Memorial Reserve), which is the habitat for a number of species of plants and animals. The area is also home to a number of Australian Aboriginal rock carvings, one of the outstanding examples being the group in Gumbooya Reserve. Garigal National Park sits on the western border. \n\nTo the north, Allambie Heights is bordered by Allenby Park, which includes small patches of rainforest and is bisected by small creeks and waterfalls. Bushfires have destroyed much of the bushland area in recent years, however this is part of the Australian ecology cycle and the forests regenerate fairly quickly.\n"}
{"id": "1943197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1943197", "title": "Allawah, New South Wales", "text": "Allawah, New South Wales\n\nAllawah is a suburb in southern Sydney, in the state of New South Wales, Australia. Allawah is 16 kilometres south of the Sydney central business district and is part of the St George area. Allawah lies in the local government area of the Georges River Council. The postcode is 2218, which is shared by the neighbouring suburb of Carlton.\n\nThe name \"Allawah\" is Aboriginal in origin, from a local term meaning 'make your abode here' or 'remain here'. It is thought that the Aboriginal clan most prominent in the St George area, the Gameygal or Kameygal – the people of Kamay (Botany Bay), lived in and around the area.\n\nThe first land grant was made in 1808 to Captain John Townson by Major George Johnston after he had briefly deposed Governor Bligh in 1808, consisting of 1950 acres (789 hectares), which became known as Townson's Farm. The grant extended from King Georges Road and Stoney Creek Road (of modern-day Penshurst and Beverly Hills) to beyond Kogarah railway station. Later, an additional 250 acres (101 hectares) to the north was granted after Townson complained about the quality of about 300 acres (121 hectares) of this grant (in what was later to become Bexley, Carlton and Allawah).\n\nThe railway line to Hurstville was opened in 1884, but the railway station at Allawah did not open until 23 October 1925.\n\nThe Allawah post office opened in May 1933.\n\nAccording to the of Population, there were 5,706 residents in Allawah. 34.7% of people were born in Australia. The next most common countries of birth were China 21.7%, Nepal 6.9%, Philippines 2.9%, Hong Kong 2.8% and India 2.5%. 27.1% of people only spoke English at home. Other languages spoken at home included Mandarin 18.7%, Cantonese 11.6%, Nepali 7.1%, Arabic 3.7% and Macedonian 2.6%. The most common responses for religious affiliation were No Religion 31.6%, Catholic 17.0% and Hinduism 9.0%.\n\nAllawah is a small landlocked suburb, about 15–20 minutes walking distance from Hurstville. Allawah's main shopping centre is located on Railway Parade, beside Allawah railway station. The Allawah shopping strip contains a newsagent, post office, corner store, Nepalese/Indian grocery store, real estate agency Century 21 Southside Properties, take-away shops, a computer repair business, an Internet cafe, and the local pub and bottle shop, the Allawah Hotel.\n\nAllawah railway station is on the Illawarra line serviced by Sydney Trains. The railway station has had an upgrade in recent years, including the installation of lifts to benefit the mobility challenged. Trains stop at Allawah six times an hour during peak times, and twice an hour at all other times.\n\n"}
{"id": "1943198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1943198", "title": "Dwight H. Green", "text": "Dwight H. Green\n\nDwight Herbert Green (January 9, 1897 – February 20, 1958) was the 30th Governor of the US state of Illinois, serving from 1941 to 1949.\n\nGreen was born in Ligonier, Noble County, Indiana, son of Harry Green and Minnie (Gerber) Green. On June 29, 1926, he married Mabel Victoria Kingston. He served in the U.S. Army during World War I. Dwight and Mabel's children were Gloria and Nancy-they attended Springfield High School. Nancy married Dr. James Gilbert and they had two daughters, Susie and Gloria. Gloria married Dr. Warren McPherson and they had two children, Scott and Victoria. Nancy Green Gilbert died in 2019. Gloria Green McPherson died in 1985.\n\nGreen attended Wabash College in Crawfordsville, Indiana, where he was a member of the Alpha-Pi Chapter of the Kappa Sigma Fraternity. He attended law school at the University of Chicago, practiced law, and served as United States Attorney for the Northern District of Illinois in 1931–35. It would be Green's primary responsibility to help fight the organized crime operationssuch as Al Capone's gangwhich virtually ruled Chicago and much of the state in the 1930s. The government team prosecuting Al Capone for Tax Evasion consisted of U.S. Attorney George E. Q. Johnson, and his prosecutors Dwight H. Green, Samuel Clawson, Jacob Grossman and William Froelich. In 1939, he was the unsuccessful Republican candidate for Mayor of Chicago.\n\nIn 1940, a backlash against the New Deal and the U.S. Democratic Party had begun to affect Illinois and many other states, especially in the Midwest. The Republican Green, with his record as a prosecutor and established opposition to the big-city Chicago political machine, was elected governor of Illinois. He was inaugurated on January 13, 1941.\n\nAt the end of the same year, Pearl Harbor thrust Governor Green into the job of leading one of the largest U.S. state governments during World War II. He won widespread support during the war and was reelected in 1944 to serve a second full term.\n\nThe coming of peace in 1945 created new challenges for America's big cities and state governments. In particular, there was a sharp shortage of housing for returning veterans and their families, as little had been built during the war or the Great Depression.\n\nThe Chicago Democratic party slated an intellectual lawyer, Adlai Stevenson, to oppose Green for a third term in office. In a surprising upset, Stevenson defeated Green in November 1948, ending Green's political career; the defeat was in part owing to his negligence in preventing the deaths of 111 miners in the Centralia mine disaster.\n\nGovernor Green returned to private life after his 1948 defeat. He died February 20, 1958 and was buried at Rosehill Cemetery in Chicago.\n"}
{"id": "1943199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1943199", "title": "Ambarvale, New South Wales", "text": "Ambarvale, New South Wales\n\nAmbarvale is a suburb of south-western Sydney in the state of New South Wales, Australia. Ambarvale is located 55 kilometres south-west of the Sydney central business district, in the local government area of the City of Campbelltown and is part of the Macarthur region. The suburb is predominantly residential and contains a mix of public and private housing.\n\nThe history of the region begins over 40,000 years ago and is contained in the continuing culture of the Tharawal people. The surrounding land still contains reminders of their past lives in rock engravings, cave paintings, axe grinding grooves and shell middens.\n\nThe suburb draws its name from a property established in 1816 by former convict Samuel Larkin. The property was actually where modern day St Helens Park is located. One of the earliest properties in what is now known as Ambarvale was a dairy farm called \"Glen Lora\". In 1972, the farms were sold for housing and the new suburb was officially opened in 1976.\n\nAccording to the 2016 census of Population, there were 7,374 people in Ambarvale.\n\nAmbarvale has an ALDI shopping centre on Woodhouse Drive. This was completed early in 2010, with the old shopping centre being demolished. Beside ALDI, is the Ambarvale Tavern, which has a bistro and gambling facilities. Just north of the suburb is Macarthur Square shopping centre, one of the largest shopping centres in southwestern Sydney.\n\nMacarthur railway station is located just north of Ambarvale, providing connection to Campbelltown Liverpool and Sydney CBD via the Airport, Inner West & South Line of the Sydney Trains network. NSW TrainLink also services Macarthur providing connections to the Southern Highlands, Canberra, Griffith and Melbourne. Bus services are provided by Busways and Interline Buses, leaving from Kellicar Road (under the bridge). The routes are 870-4, 886-89, 890-98 to and from Campbelltown.\n\nThe suburb contains two public primary schools, Ambarvale Public and Thomas Acres Public, plus one public high school, Thomas Reddall High School. The High School named Ambarvale High School is actually located in Rosemeadow.\n\nThe majority of housing in Ambarvale is in the form of detached houses although attached houses and walk-up flats also exist. The majority of dwellings in Ambarvale were constructed in the 1970s and 1980 decades.\n"}
{"id": "1943203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1943203", "title": "Annangrove, New South Wales", "text": "Annangrove, New South Wales\n\nAnnangrove is named after Annangrove House, the home of Edward Charles Johnston, a grandson of George Johnston who had received a large grant in present-day Annandale. He had named his house Annandale, after his birthplace Annan in Scotland and his grandson also used the name for his house in this area. Timber cutting was the first industry in the area, the land was then used for orchards from the 1880s. Edward Johnston bought his land in 1893 from Bennett William Johns. The post office took the Annangrove name from his house when it opened on 16 October 1895, as did the school in 1896.\n\nSydney Zoroastrian Fire Temple is located at 196 Annangrove Road.\nImam Hasan Centre, a Muslim prayer centre (Hussainia) for Shia Muslims in Sydney, opened 16 October 2004.\n\nAccording to the of Population, there were 1,397 residents in Annangrove. 80.9% of people were born in Australia and 88.2% of people only spoke English at home. The most common responses for religious affiliation were Catholic 38.7%, Anglican 17.7% and No Religion 14.9%.\n"}
{"id": "1943209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1943209", "title": "Arcadia, New South Wales", "text": "Arcadia, New South Wales\n\nArcadia is a semi-rural suburb of Sydney, in the state of New South Wales, Australia 42 kilometres north-west of the Sydney central business district in the local government area of Hornsby Shire. Arcadia is in the Hills District region.\n\nArcadia is derived from Arcadia, a region in Greece and in Greek mythology was \"a pastoral retreat\".\n\nArcadia Post Office opened on 1 December 1895 (renamed from an earlier \"Upper Galston\" office) and closed in 1974.\n\nThe original inhabitants of the area were the Darug people.\n\nThe name \"Dooral\" appeared on Surveyor James Meehan's map of April 1817 and originally covered the whole area which includes present day Arcadia, as well as Dural, Glenorie and Galston.\n\nTimber cutters opened up the area from 1817 and the early settlements were originally known as Upper, Middle, Lower, North and Little Dural. The name Arcadia was given to a public school that opened in this area in 1895 and was later adopted for the suburb.\n\nAccording to the 2016 census of Population, there were 1,385 residents in Arcadia. 81.4% of residents were born in Australia. The most common other countries of birth were England (5.9%), New Zealand (1.6%) and Italy (1.3%). 89.7% of residents spoke only English at home. Other languages spoken at home included Italian (1.5%), Mandarin (1.2%) and Arabic (1.2%). The most common responses for religious affiliation were Catholic (29.6%), No Religion (26%) and Anglican (20.4%).\n\nArcadia Road is the main road through the suburb that provides access from Galston and leads north into Bay Road to Berrilee and Berowra Waters. Arcadia Road also links to Cobah Road which leads north to Fiddletown.\n\n\nArcadia Public School is the local primary school in Arcadia. Catering for children Kindergarten to Year 6.\n\nA website and a book on the history of Arcadia the suburb and Arcadia Public School was created in 2014 as part of the Arcadia Public School 120th celebrations. The 120th Anniversary committee were the recipients of the 2015 Owen Nannelli Memorial Award presented by Hornsby Shire Council\n\nNorthholm Grammar School uses an Arcadia address, however geographically it is situated in Fiddletown.\nNorthholm is a private school catering for Kindergarten to Year 12.\n\nArcadia Road and houses on Roscommon Road were featured in the Australian movie Tomorrow, When The War Began.\n\n"}
{"id": "1943212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1943212", "title": "Arndell Park, New South Wales", "text": "Arndell Park, New South Wales\n\nArndell Park is a predominantly industrial suburb in the City of Blacktown, in Western Sydney, in the state of New South Wales, Australia. Its postcode is 2148.\n\nThis suburb is managed as a part of the Eastern Creek Area, along with Huntingwood. With this in mind most statistics and demographic information is not available for this suburb by itself.\n\nThe suburb takes its name from Thomas Arndell who was appointed Assistant Surgeon to the settlement in New South Wales and arrived with the First Fleet. He later joined Captain Tench in 1789 in the journey of exploration from Prospect Hill to the Nepean River.\nThere is a retail and commercial mall in Arndell Park comprising an Aldi discount supermarket, a Subway restaurant, a Gloria Jean's coffee store, a solicitors office, a medical centre, a bottle shop, OurCellar and several discount stores and food outlets.\n\n"}
{"id": "1943215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1943215", "title": "Ashbury, New South Wales", "text": "Ashbury, New South Wales\n\nAshbury is a suburb in the Inner West of Sydney, in the state of New South Wales, Australia. It lies in the local government area of City of Canterbury-Bankstown with some areas in the Inner West Council and is about 10 kilometres south-west of the Sydney central business district. The postcode is 2193, the same as neighbouring Canterbury.\n\nAshbury is mostly residential and has no commercial centre, although there are a few shops on King Street. Its major landmark is Peace Park, the highest point in the Canterbury local government area. Ashbury derived its name from the two neighbouring suburbs Ashfield and Canterbury. It is near Canterbury Park Racecourse.\n\nBefore the British colony at Sydney, the Ashbury area was home to the Wangal and Cadigal people, clans of the Darug tribe. After pressure from colonists, the British administration began subdividing land in the area surrounding the Sydney settlement and granting it to colonists. The first land grant in the area was made to Reverend Richard Johnson (1753-1827), the colony's first chaplain.\n\nThe land that extended over Ashbury was known as Canterbury Vale. When it was sold to Lieutenant William Cox in 1800, it covered . It was then sold to Robert Campbell (1769–1846) in 1803 when it covered and then proceeded to purchase more land to Liverpool Road. The estate passed onto his son-in-law Arthur Jefferey and was eventually split up. This area then became known as Goodlet's Bush, after an early settler, John Hay Goodlet. In 1878 Goodlet had bought Canterbury House, which had been built by Arthur Jeffreys.\n\nThe South Ashfield Brickworks (later called the Ashbury Brickyard) opened in 1910 from the site of what is now Peace Park. Widescale housing development of the area began in 1919. A primary school began taking students in 1924 and in 1926 changed its name from South Ashfield to Ashbury Public School, leading to the area adopting its own identity. A non-official post office was established on King St in the same year.\n\nAshbury has no railway station but it is relatively close to both Ashfield station on the Inner West & Leppington Line and Canterbury station on the Bankstown Line. Transit Systems Sydney buses serve Ashbury. The 491 Five Dock to Hurstville bus links Ashbury to both Ashfield and Canterbury stations from King Street. The 413 bus links Ashbury to both the City and Campsie. Route 418 links Ashbury with Burwood, Ashfield, Hurlstone Park, Marrickville, Sydenham, Mascot, Randwick and Bondi Junction via Queen Street whilst the 406 connects Ashbury with Five Dock, Ashfield and Hurlstone Park via Victoria Street and Old Canterbury Road.\n\nAshbury borders the Cooks River and offers excellent access for cyclists and walkers to the Cooks River Cycleway.\n\nThere are two schools in Ashbury. Ashbury Public School was built in 1928. Its catchment area includes students from southern Ashfield as well as Ashbury. St Francis Xavier's Primary School began in 1930.\n\nThe area has a consistent subdivision pattern, building form and streetscape, largely because its development occurred over a relatively short period of time. A high standard of design and residential amenity was also achieved, and housing in this area has become increasingly sought after. Ashbury consists of character filled Federation and Californian bungalows which are under heritage conservation making the suburb highly sought after.\n\nSeptember 2017\n\nRecent decades have seen the greatest decline in the protection of the built environment,\nwith political control overseen by greed and vested interests, having become increasingly one-sided.\nAlthough attempts have been made via periodically reviewing the Development Control Plan (DCP) for Ashbury, to maintain aesthetic character, by enforcing rulings which dictate that new work and additions be located to the rear of the dwelling, failure to dictate aesthetic compatibility, has resulted in a smorgasbord of blatantly visible aberrations. The Emperor Wears No Clothes.\n\nIn 2000 the campaign to protect the suburb's period housing was formally joined by Canterbury Council's Labor Party. Federation, Californian Bungalow, and Art Deco style dwellings were built mainly during a period that spanned four decades, from the beginning of the Twentieth Century, into the 1940s. Californian Bungalow and Art Deco style houses are referred to as Inter-War Period Housing. The homes built during this time reflected a sentiment which embraced the Art Nouveau movement covering the period from 1890 to 1910.<br>\n\n<br>\n\nThe predominant Architectural Style typifying Ashbury is \"Californian Bungalow\". Built in the nineteen twenties, the original allotments were occupied by single storey, single dwellings, which were designed and constructed using a variety of repeated floor plans. The architectural forms featured mostly gabled and hipped roofs, covered with unglazed red terra cotta tiles. The gables were clad in fibrous cement segmented with vertical timber strip covers. Generous verandahs and leadlight windows were also commonly featured. Timber-framed awnings with decorative timber brackets also enhanced elevations and exposed rafters, dressed-all-round, added to the character and attractiveness of the homely surrounds. External timber sills were often supported by corbelled brickwork, adding a three dimensional protrusion of the windows externally, and the opportunity for a recessed bay internally. This could be used for flower arrangements or placement of ornaments. Awning windows with high sill heights would allow for natural ventilation, weather protection, and security all at the same time. Tuckpointing on manganese or liver coloured face bricks on front elevations was featured, whilst side elevations were finished in common bricks set in lime mortar.\n\nOther architectural period styles include Federation and inter-war dwellings of the nineteen thirties. Some Federation Period dwellings included roughcast rendered gable faces and brick piers. Tulips were often incised in decorative timber fretwork, whilst elaborate floral leadlights were found on front and side elevations. Prior to listing the entire suburb for heritage conservation, many of the houses were modified and added to, with little or no consideration for either scale or style of the original architecture. Leadlight windows were designed in the Art Deco style, which is reflected in the many diverse geometric patterns, typical of the 1920s and 1930s. This manifested as a direct divergence from the floral designs of the preceding Federation Period from the first two decades of the 1900s. This artistic approach to home design was reflected in the many variations of detailed elements defining the Australian adaptation of the Californian Bungalow. Picture rails, ceilings, leadlight windows, chimneys and chimney pots, terra cotta tiles and finials were typical elements of this style. Inter-war Period dwellings were marked by the more austere hipped roofs, replacing gables, with leadlights being geometrical and without colour, and brickwork featuring inset textured, or herringbone designs. Some of the houses also included curved brick walls, and Art Deco ironwork of the Universal Style. The single storey, single dwelling streetscape has been largely retained in Ashbury. Where 1st floor additions have been allowed, under the Local Government's Development Control Plan, few have been designed to complement the original architecture.\n\n\nAccording to the , there were 3,329 residents in Ashbury. 65.8% of residents were born in Australia. The most common other countries of birth were Italy 5.8%, China 2.8% and Lebanon 2.8%. 59.4% of residents spoke only English at home. Other languages spoken at home included Italian 9.3%, Greek 8.6% and Arabic 4.8%. The most common responses for religious affiliation were Catholic 40.1%, No Religion 22.1%, Eastern Orthodox 12.5%, Anglican 8.2% and Not stated 6.9%. Christianity was the largest religious group reported (71.4% of those who answered this question).\n\nThe following people were either born or lived in Ashbury:\n\nAshbury is located in the Canterbury Ward of the City of Canterbury-Bankstown. Canterbury-Bankstown Council is dominated by Labor councillors. Canterbury Ward has one Labor, Liberal and Greens councillor, elected at the last council elections in 2017. The mayor of Canterbury-Bankstown is Labor's Khal Asfour.\n\nPart of Ashbury is also located in the Ashfield Ward of the Inner West Council area.\n\nFor state government elections, Ashbury is in the Electoral district of Summer Hill held by Labor's Jo Haylen since 2015. For federal government elections, it is in the Division of Watson, held by Labor's Tony Burke since 2004. The table below shows a consistently strong Labor vote in both Federal and State elections. The figures in this table for Federal elections relate to the Division of Grayndler from which Ashbury has moved since then.\n"}
{"id": "1943217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1943217", "title": "Ashcroft, New South Wales", "text": "Ashcroft, New South Wales\n\nAshcroft is a suburb of Sydney, in the state of New South Wales, Australia 35 kilometres south-west of the Sydney central business district, in the local government area of the City of Liverpool.\n\nThe suburb was formed as part of the Housing Commission's Green Valley development. It was named Ashcroft after the pioneering family in the district that gave the land for the site of this development. The Ashcroft family was active in establishing meat wholesaling and retailing activities at the Homebush abattoir. E.J. Ashcroft was a butcher at Liverpool in the 1890s. Although named earlier, Ashcroft was officially gazetted on 7 April 1972. Ashcroft Post Office opened on 3 May 1965 and closed in 1985.\n\nAccording to the 2016 census of Population, there were 3,585 people in Ashcroft.\n\n\nAshcroft High School were the first co-educational school to win the Amco Shield (now called the Arrive Alive Cup). They won the Amco Shield in 1977 and again in 1985. In 1976, Ashcroft became the first city school to win the University Shield for 31 years and went on to win it again in 1977, 1984 and 1985. They were also Amco Shield runner up in 1976 and University Shield runner up in 1978. Ashcroft High also won the Buckley Shield in 1982 and 1987. Ashcroft Primary School also won the Westmont Shield, year unknown. Ashcroft is the only suburb that has one all major schoolboys rugby league competitions, Amco Shield, University Shield, Buckley Shield and Westmont Shield along with numerous Parramatta and state knock outs. Also in 1977 Ashcroft High played the curtain raiser to the Grand Final replay between Parramatta and St George. They were narrowly beaten by the NSW CHS team.\n\n"}
{"id": "1943219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1943219", "title": "Audley, New South Wales", "text": "Audley, New South Wales\n\nAudley is a locality on the outskirts of southern Sydney, in the state of New South Wales, Australia. It is located in the Royal National Park and is part of the Sutherland Shire.\n\nKangaroo Creek joins the Hacking River at Audley. A causeway crosses the river here, which is subject to flooding and occasional road closure for travellers into the Royal National Park, and communities at Bundeena/Mainbar. Audley features extensive picnic areas, boat hire facilities, a bike track and a visitor's centre. Audley is also the location of the administrative headquarters for the Royal National Park.\n\nThe area was surveyed by Lord George Edward Audley in 1863–64, where he set up camp. He later married Emily, second daughter of Major Sir Thomas Mitchell, the Surveyor-General.\n\nFloodgates were constructed in Audley in 1900. Audley developed into a small village of amusements, surrounded by 'pleasure gardens'. It was popular with holiday-makers and honeymooners who could stay at the Allambie House guesthouse. A dance hall was built here in the 1940s, which still stands today.\n\nAudley has a number of heritage-listed sites, including:\n"}
{"id": "1943220", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1943220", "title": "Austral, New South Wales", "text": "Austral, New South Wales\n\nAustral is a suburb of Sydney, in the state of New South Wales, Australia. It is 42 kilometres south-west of the Sydney central business district, in the local government area of the City of Liverpool.\n\nIt is bounded to the west by waterway Kemps Creek, to the east by a Sydney Water supply channel, to the north by a straight division, and to the south by Bringelly Road. Bonds Creek flows southeast-northwest through the suburb, and confluences with Kemps Creek near Fifteenth Avenue. It is of note in its design, its streets laid out in a grid pattern, and all horizontal ones named 'Avenue', in numbers from south to north increasing.\n\nThe area that now constitutes the suburbs of Austral was a parcel of land in West Hoxton purchased by the Austral Banking and Land Proprietary. When residents pushed for a second public school in the Hoxton Park area in 1891, Austral Banking and Land Proprietary donated of its land for the site and, in return, the school was named Austral Public School. The name of the school became synonymous with the area although it wasn't officially recognised until 1972. Austral Post Office opened on 7 February 1894.\n\nAccording to the 2016 census of Population, there were 3,024 residents in Austral. 60.4% of people were born in Australia. The next most common country of birth was Italy at 10.1%. 52.3% of people only spoke English at home. Other languages spoken at home included Italian 14.4% and Arabic 6.9%. The most common response for religious affiliation was Catholic at 47.7%.\n\nAustral has a sportsground, youth centre, tennis court and skate ramp at Craik Park, the W V Scott Memorial Park, with a pavilion, and a bowls grounds, Petanque. It has a Rural Fire Service station, primary school (Austral Primary), Retirement Villages (RSL LifeCare Tobruk Village and Scalabrini Village), Nursing Home (John Edmondson VC Gardens) and a small area of commerce, including a post office and telephone. It is the site of Camp Austral girl guides camp, and another small shopping area near the corner of Fifteenth Avenue and Edmonson Avenue. It is also the site of a Hindu temple and an animal shelter.\n\nBringelly Road connects Austral to Liverpool and the Westlink M7, a pay road providing relatively quick connection to Sydney CBD and other parts of greater Sydney.\n\nThe Route 853/855 bus service connects Bringelly to Liverpool via Rossmore, Austral, Hoxton Park and Cartwright. In 2015, a railway station opened in the neighbouring suburb of Leppington.\n"}
{"id": "1943223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1943223", "title": "Girton, Cambridgeshire", "text": "Girton, Cambridgeshire\n\nGirton is a village and civil parish of about 1,600 households, and 4,500 people in Cambridgeshire, England. It lies about to the northwest of Cambridge, and is the home of Girton College, a constituent college of the University of Cambridge.\n\nListed as \"Grittune\" in around 1060 and \"Grittune\" in the Domesday Book, the village's name is derived from the Old English \"grēot + tūn\" meaning \"farmstead or village on gravelly ground\", as the settlement was formed on a gravel ridge.\n\nGirton has a long history, and has been home to a poor settlement for more than 2000 years. The parish lies on the Via Devana, the Roman road, and a cemetery with at least 225 burials between the second century AD and the early Anglo Saxon period was found near to Girton College in 1880. In addition, traces of agriculture from the late Bronze Age and Roman period were found to the north of the village in 1975. A selection of Anglo-Saxon items are stored in the collection of Girton College.\n\nThe parish church has been dedicated to Saint Andrew since at least 1240. Part of the west tower contains stones that were probably part of an earlier 11th-century church on the site, and there are parts of 13th century construction still in evidence, but the present building was largely rebuilt in the 15th and 16th centuries. The church was owned by Ramsey Abbey from the 12th century until the Dissolution of the Monasteries.\n\nEllen Wordsworth Darwin née Crofts, the second wife of Sir Francis Darwin is buried in the churchyard of St. Andrew's Church.\n\nA Baptist church was built in the village in 1860.\n\nThe current village sign, situated on the corner of Redgate Road and Cambridge Road was erected in 1985 after a fund-raising campaign.\n\nDesigned by Denis Cheason and made by Barry Sharman, the design is formed from a number of separate images. The top part of design is based on a Roman belt discovered in a burial ground near Girton College. The centre is derived from the family coat of arms of Anne-Maria Cotton, who endowed the first Girton village school, together with geese, kept at Washpit, that provided quills for use in the University of Cambridge. The flowers near the village's name are corn marigolds which were once common in the village, and at the base is the cross of Saint Andrew to whom the parish church is dedicated.It is the terminus of the M11 motorway.It also has the Girton Interchange.\n\nGirton has three public houses; the Old Crown opened in around 1840, The George (formerly the George and Dragon) which was opened by a blacksmith in the 1850s, and The Traveller's Rest a modern addition on Huntingdon Road on the outskirts of Cambridge. The village's first pub, the White Horse, was opened in around 1760 but closed in the late 20th century. The village hosts a rare variant of the grey squirrel — the black squirrel.\n\nGirton College, a constituent college of the University of Cambridge, is situated within the village. Formed in 1869 under the name of the College for Women at Benslow House, it was originally based in Hitchin, before moving to its current site in 1873, at which time it took its current name. Until 1976 it admitted only women.\n\nThe village also contains a primary school, Girton Glebe. Built in 1951, it replaced the village's original school, built in 1845, as well as Gretton School, a special school for pupils with autism spectrum disorders.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1943232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1943232", "title": "Balmoral, New South Wales", "text": "Balmoral, New South Wales\n\nBalmoral is an urban locality in the suburb of Mosman in Sydney, New South Wales, Australia. It is in the local government area of the Municipality of Mosman and is part of the Lower North Shore.\n\nThe locality is mostly known for its beach, officially divided into Balmoral and Edwards Beaches. Expensive residential real estate on the surrounding \"Balmoral Slopes\" benefits from the views and beach proximity. The naval depot HMAS Penguin is situated at the eastern end of Balmoral Beach. It houses a naval hospital and is accessed from Middle Head Road.\n\nBalmoral is named after Balmoral Castle, the large estate house in Aberdeenshire, Scotland known as Royal Deeside and a favourite summer royal residence. The Star Amphitheatre, an open-air temple constructed by the Theosophical Society-related group, was built in 1923-1924. Intended as a platform for lectures by the expected \"World Teacher\", believed by the Theosophists to be Jiddu Krishnamurti, it was demolished in 1951, and its foundations used for an apartment building that still stands on the site.\n\nThe Balmoral Beach Conservation Area is listed on the New South Wales State Heritage Register. The area includes Edwards Beach as well as Balmoral Beach, plus the promenade, esplanade, rotunda and Bather's Pavilion, which date back to the 1930s.\n\nAs the Balmoral area developed, it became the location for many examples of the Federation architectural styles that predominated from 1890 to 1915. There are many fine examples of these styles in the area. Balmoral is also the location of \"Noonee\", a heritage-listed home designed by Alexander Stewart Jolly. The house was built 1918-19 and drew on elements of the American hunting lodge.\n\nThe Balmoral line opened as a branch of the Georges Heights line in May 1922 and was one of the last tram lines to be opened in Sydney. Services ran to Wynyard, Lane Cove, Athol Wharf (now Taronga Park Zoo wharf) and Chatswood, making it one of the busiest lines on the North Sydney system.\n\nUpon departure from The Esplanade Terminus, at the corner of Mandalong Road, trams travelled south-East along The Esplanade. After passing Botanic Road, the line swung right onto Henry Plunkett Reserve. From this point, the line went off-road onto its own reservation through a narrow rock cutting (now public walking track). After a steep ascent through the reserve, the line crossed several small residential streets such as Mulbring, Gordon, Plunkett, and Beaconsfield Streets, before once again entering onto Gordon Street where the line swung right onto Middle Head Road. Services ceased to operate in June 1958.\n\nThe Promenade along the Esplanade was completed in 1926 in response to the influx of new visitors travelling by tram. The southern section of the promenade was completed as part of the Balmoral Beautification Scheme in 1927 and government employment projects\nduring the Great Depression helped fund other sections, the bridge to Rocky Point, the Bathers Pavilion and the Rotunda to be completed by 1930.\n\nBalmoral has a number of heritage-listed sites, including:\n\nA number of eateries are situated along The Esplanade, the main thoroughfare along the beach, ranging from take away to restaurant dining. The Balmoral Rotunda is the home of Shakespeare By The Sea, a summer outdoor event. Other notable events include the annual Mudgee Wine Festival and the annual Carols By Candlelight hosted at the Rotunda in December. The Rotunda and Rocky Point Island are also popular for wedding ceremonies and photographs.\n\nOrganisations and facilities include Balmoral Oval, a substantial netted swimming area (Balmoral Baths), Balmoral Sailing Club, a sea scout troop, and two swimming clubs.\n\nBalmoral features Balmoral and Edwards Beaches, both of which are separated by the outcrop of Rocky Point. Both beaches are usually referred to as simply Balmoral. The locality has views across the entrance to Middle Harbour to North Head, Manly, and Clontarf. The harbour beaches face north east and is sheltered from ocean swell by Middle Head. The entire beach is listed on the Register of the National Estate as the 'Balmoral Beach Conservation Area'. The conservation area includes the promenade, the esplanade, the Rotunda and the Bathers' Pavilion, which date back to the 1930s.\n\n"}
{"id": "1943233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1943233", "title": "Zetland, New South Wales", "text": "Zetland, New South Wales\n\nZetland is an inner-eastern suburb of Sydney, New South Wales, Australia 4 kilometres south of the Sydney central business district, in the local government area of the City of Sydney. \n\nZetland is a largely industrial suburb with medium- to high-density residential areas. Zetland is part of the Green Square district which is currently undergoing gentrification. This involves an urban renewal project that is constructing modern retail, business and residential developments.\n\nA new zone of Zetland made by Landcom called Victoria Park, is designated for medium to high density residential development and retail along South Dowling Street, with its other boundaries along O'Dea and Joynton Avenues.\n\nZetland was named for Thomas Dundas, 2nd Earl of Zetland, who was a friend of Governor Sir Hercules Robinson. Zetland is an archaic spelling of Shetland.\n\nZetland originally featured a lagoon and swamp which was drained in the early 1900s to create the Victoria Park racecourse. It was bordered by O’Dea Avenue, South Dowling Street, Epsom Road and Joynton Avenue. The privately owned racecourse was closed after World War II. The land was bought by British businessman Lord Nuffield in 1947 and from 1950 the site was utilised by Nuffield Australia for a motor vehicle assembly facility. Vehicle production was continued by Nuffield Australia and its successors BMC Australia and Leyland Australia until the factory was closed in 1975. The site was acquired by the Commonwealth of Australia for a Naval Stores depot which operated until the mid-1990s. The land was subsequently redeveloped into high density housing (location: ).\n\nZetland Post Office was first opened on 4 January 1937 and closed on 29 September 1983.\n\nFrom 1902 a tram service operated through Zetland. The line initially ran via Chalmers and Redfern Streets and south along Elizabeth Street to Zetland. In 1924, the line was extended to Epsom Road in Rosebery. In 1948, to facilitate construction of the Eastern Suburbs Railway, a new line was constructed down Elizabeth Street between Devonshire Street and Redfern Street and the route was deviated to run down this new section. The line was electrified double track throughout. The line was closed in 1957.\n\nThe Waterloo Swamp once dominated the landscape of the surrounding areas of Waterloo and Zetland. Woolwash Park Pond is the only remnant of this landscape which connected to a vast aquifer that still runs below the site. In the 1800s industries such as wool washing and tanning were attracted to this area by the clean water from the aquifer. Vegetation remains.\n\nWoolwash Park Pond is an important part of the innovative water management and irrigation system at Victoria Park, Zetland. To ensure that the pond is able to effectively perform its important functions, residents are advised of the following by signage. The presence of fish is detrimental to water quality, as fish disturb sediments, produce waste, damage the macrophytes, and block the irrigation system. Any fish introduced into the pond will be removed. Aquatic plants are not to be introduced into the pond. These plants often infest the pond, killing the macrophytes and blocking the irrigation pumps.\n\nIn the 2016 Census, there were 10,078 people in Zetland. 28.7% of people were born in Australia. The most common countries of birth were China 31.0%, England 3.3%, Indonesia 2.5%, Ireland 2.0% and Hong Kong 2.0%. 36.8% of people only spoke English at home. Other languages spoken at home included Mandarin 29.6%, Cantonese 5.0%, Indonesian 2.6%, Spanish 1.6% and Korean 1.3%. The most common responses for religion in Zetland were No Religion 50.4%, and Catholic 15.1%.\n\nOf occupied private dwellings in Zetland, 91.4% were flat or apartments and 7.9% were semi-detached.\n\nGreen Square railway station on the Airport, Inner West & South Line of the Sydney Trains network is located on the northern edge of Zetland. Central railway station is the next station to the north and Mascot railway station is the next station to the south.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1943235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1943235", "title": "Yagoona, New South Wales", "text": "Yagoona, New South Wales\n\nYagoona, a suburb of the local government area City of Canterbury-Bankstown, is located 20 kilometres south-west of the Sydney central business district, in the state of New South Wales, Australia. It is a part of the South-western Sydney region. Yagoona is an Aboriginal word meaning 'now' or 'today'. It was the site of the first McDonald's restaurant to open in Australia in 1971.\n\nBefore European settlement, the area was originally occupied by the Bediagal people.\n\nThe area now known as Yagoona, Bass Hill, and north Bankstown was once known as Irish Town, due to the high concentration of Irish rebels transported here from Ireland in the late 1700s. Land grants were issued to Irish families and finally the suburb of Yagoona was created in 1927. St Matthew's Anglican Church was built on Liverpool Road (now Hume Highway) in 1861 to cater for the Protestants of the district as well as to function as a school.\n\nThe main commercial area is located on the Hume Highway (Liverpool Road), near Yagoona railway station. In 1963, the Westfield Group built a supermarket on a vacant lot on the highway; the store opened as Coles New World, later became Franklins, and then IGA. Yagoona was home to the first McDonald's restaurant in Australia, opened in 1971, but it closed in 1994.\n\nOver recent years this shopping strip has been in economic decline as a consequence of major banks (Commonwealth, National Australia, State and Westpac) and retailers leaving. Residents now find it more convenient to shop at nearby Bass Hill Plaza or further away at Chester Hill, Bankstown (Bankstown Central Shopping Centre, formerly Centro Bankstown, formerly Bankstown Square) or Parramatta (Westfield). There have been some plans to rejuvenate the town centre in Yagoona in recent years by Bankstown City Council. \"\"Initial suggestions, already supported by residents and visitors, include a larger supermarket, a new community centre, improved shopping environment, and a variation in housing.\"\"\n\nRetailers here include an IGA Supermarket, a KFC fast food outlet, Australia Post, a number of discount stores, mixed businesses, three pharmacies, a fruit shop, bakery, a newsagent, a real estate agent, several cafés, furniture stores and medical centres. Another Australia Post is on Dargan Street, Yagoona West.\n\nIn 2006 a Salvation Army store opened in the town centre (where the Blockbuster videos store was once located and previously a Pizza Hut), which later was suspiciously destroyed in early January 2010. The fancy dress store next to the medical centre/pharmacy was originally occupied by the post office. Previous businesses in and around the main commercial area include Top Video (burnt down in 1995), Video Ezy, State Bank (which closed in the 90's and is now a medical centre and pharmacy), a fruit and vegetable market and a liquor store next to the supermarket (now both furniture stores), Franklins supermarket (now IGA), a newsagency next to the railway station (later a cafe until an explosion closed it), a photo shop (now a discount store).\nThe head office of RSPCA NSW, plus a shelter, is located along Rookwood Road in this suburb.\n\nYagoona railway station is on the Bankstown line of the Sydney Trains network. A number of bus services link Yagoona to Bankstown and Parramatta. Yagoona is located some 5 – 10 minutes from Bankstown Central Business District and about 10 – 15 minutes from Parramatta CBD.\nThe Hume Highway cuts through Yagoona and is the main road access for Yagoona to Liverpool and Sydney City; and Rookwood Road connects south to Stacey Street/Fairford Road (Entrance to the M5), and north to Silverwater Road (Access to the M4). A 30-metre pedestrian bridge costing A$2.3 million linking the side footpaths of Hume Highway was built in 2006, primarily to ensure easy and safe access travel in this area for the students of Yagoona Primary School. Lifts are located at each end to ensure easy access for those with disabilities. The construction of the bridge was funded by the Government of New South Wales. The bridge will also help streamline Hume Highway traffic by removing the previous set of traffic lights.\n\nThere are three Primary Schools in Yagoona:\n\nThere are no high schools in the suburb. Most students attend high schools in adjoining suburbs, normally Birrong, Bass Hill, Bankstown, Condell Park or Sefton.\n\nYagoona is home to Gazzard Park, George Green Oval, Gillman Reserve, Middleton Park, Graf Park and O'Neill Park. All the parks contain various sporting facilities and play equipment.\n\nYagoona has seven places of worship. These include:\nIn the 2016 Census, there were 18,013 people in Yagoona, 50.6% of people were born in Australia. The next most common countries of birth were Vietnam 11.8%, Lebanon 8.3%, The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia 2.1%, China 2.1% and New Zealand 1.2%. 29.2% of people spoke only English at home. Other languages spoken at home included Arabic 25.9%, Vietnamese 15.9%, Macedonian 3.5%, Cantonese 2.8% and Greek 2.0%. The most common responses for religion were Islam 26.3%, Catholic 24.0% and No Religion 10.3%.\n\nEach year an Autumn Fair was hosted in Yagoona's Gazzard Park, designed to allow the community to express their aims and objectives, as well as to raise funds for community projects and work. Its final year was around 2009. Events include a ticket raffle, Yagoona Scouts $1 sausage sizzle, free rides, a non-stop stage show, face painting and more. On at least one occasion, the fair was held in the Spring rather than Autumn.\n\n2007 Autumn Fair Pictures\nFooty Legends, written by Khoa and Anh Do, directed by the former and starring the latter, is a drama movie set in Yagoona. It makes references to the social issues in the area and revolves around an amateur rugby league team consisting of socially disaffected people.\n\nThe local sports team is the Yagoona Lions football team, a member of the Bankstown District Amateur Football Association. The Lions' home-ground is at O'Neill Park.\n\nA (now defunct) Indoor Cricket Sports Club was situated on the Hume Highway.\n\nThe Yagoona Schooners (Rugby league).\n\n"}
{"id": "1943241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1943241", "title": "Yennora", "text": "Yennora\n\nYennora is a suburb of Sydney in the state of New South Wales, Australia, 29 kilometres west of the Sydney central business district. The residential part of the suburb is primarily in the local government area of the City of Fairfield, although the industrial area in west is a part of Cumberland Council. It is part of the Greater Western Sydney region.\n\nYennora is an Aboriginal word meaning \"walking\" or \"to stroll\". Aboriginal people from the Cabrogal tribe, a sub-group of the Gandangara tribe, have lived in the Fairfield area for over 30,000 years.\n\nEuropean settlement began in Fairfield in the early 19th century. A siding platform was built by the New South Wales Government Railways in 1927 and given the name Yennora. The public school was opened in 1955 and the Wool Stores were established in June 1971.\n\nA portion of Yennora is dominated by an industrial zone, which includes the 300,000m Yennora Distribution Centre. It was opened in June 1971 as the Yennora Wool Centre. The Yennora Distribution Centre has a connection to the Main Southern railway line, and is used by Qube Logistics for freight services running between Port Botany and the suburb. Yennora also has some small shops and restaurants. \n\nYennora railway station is on the Inner West & Leppington and Cumberland lines of the Sydney Trains network. Trains run frequently from Yennora to Leppington, Richmond and the City Circle. Yennora is also serviced by bus services operated by Transdev NSW.\n\nAccording to the , 40.7% of people stated that they were born in Australia, with Vietnam (8.2%), Iraq (6.8%), Lebanon (5.8%), Myanmar (3.8%) and China (3.0%) being other common responses. A high percentage (72.4%) of people spoke a language other than English at home, with Arabic (25.3%), Vietnamese (9.5%), Karen (4.5%), Cantonese (3.9%), and Spanish (3.4%) being the most commonly spoken non-English languages.\n\nThe median age of people in Yennora was 40 years, with 17.2% of people aged between 0–14 years and 23.2% aged 65 years and over. With regards to employment, 51.1% of people were employed full-time, 30.3% were employed part-time, 6.9% were employed but away from work and 11.7% were unemployed. Furthermore, Yennora is known to be the most poorest suburb of Sydney, where the median personal income is just $19,000.\n"}
{"id": "1943242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1943242", "title": "Yowie Bay, New South Wales", "text": "Yowie Bay, New South Wales\n\nYowie Bay is a suburb in southern Sydney, in the state of New South Wales, Australia. Yowie Bay is located 24 kilometres south of the Sydney central business district, in the local government area of the Sutherland Shire.\n\nYowie Bay takes its name from the small bay on the north shore of the Port Hacking estuary (also known locally as the Port Hacking River). It is bounded to the north by the suburb of Miranda and shares its postcode of 2228. Located to the east, across the Yowie Bay waterway, is Caringbah South. To the west is the suburb of Gymea Bay, across the bay of the same name.\n\nYowie Bay is named after an Australian creature called a Yowie.\n\nLand in the area was originally released as the Village of 'Weerona' in 1889. The name 'Ewey Bay' was also recognised by the electoral office and post office in the early days. Yowie Bay was named by Surveyor Dixon in 1827, after sighting a yowie in the nearby South West Arm. The suburb was officially assigned the name in 1973 by the Geographical Names Board.\nYowie Bay is a mostly residential area with just a few scattered commercial developments. A marina is located at the end of Wonga Road with a liquor shop nearby. The Port Hacking Open Sailing Club sits on Yowie Bay. The Postbox Café is on the corner of Forest Road and Attunga Road, occupying the former site of a corner shop. The Yowie Bay Friendly Grocer (formerly Yowie Bay General Store) is located on Forest Road. There is one small school, Yowie Bay Public School.\n"}
{"id": "1943244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1943244", "title": "Silago, Southern Leyte", "text": "Silago, Southern Leyte\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\nIt used to be barrio of Hinunangan until Executive Order No. 326 dated May 17, 1951 separated it from the mother town. The town has an ebony beach with unique black sand.\n\nSilago is politically subdivided into 15 barangays.\n\nThe name \"Silago\" was a shortening of Spanish \"murcielago\" (\"bat\"), referring to an account when the Spaniards encountered bats in the area perching in trees locally known as \"tuog\". The natives replied the incomprehensible question of the name of their place asked by the Spaniards saying \"\"tua'y daghang kabug\"\" in the belief that the Spaniards were amazed the huge number of bats present in the area that time. The place was then called \"Murcielago\" and over time, was shortened to its present name \"Silago\".\n\nHowever, accounts from Pigafetta on the Magellan voyage indicates a certain island in Leyte recorded as 'Cenalo' along with the recorded 'Hinnangar' (Hinunangan), and 'Abarien' (Cabalian), which in a new presentation by Greg Hontiveros on the First Mass controversy published in 2008, designated it to the Hingatungan Point in the town and therefore not an island as the account indicates.\n\nSilago was once part of the Municipality of Hinunangan, located in the northernmost part of the said town. For several years, Silago was under the political jurisdictions of Hinunangan, even during World War I and II.\n\nDuring World War II, Silago was chosen as the site of submarine landing of American military arms and equipment for the Leyte guerillas. The military hardware was efficiently moved to Leyte by hundreds of volunteer guards under the Leyte area command of Col. Ruperto K. Kangleon.\n\nAfter the Second World War, Silago became more progressive and had increased its population, and thus became the biggest barangay of Hinunangan. Progress served as pushing factor that Silago has availed and gained qualifications to become a municipality.\n\nIn 1948, the Secretary of National Defense Ruperto Kangleon worked hard for the conversion of barrio Silago to a municipality. Finally on June 20, 1950, the new Municipality of Silago was inaugurated by virtue of an Executive Order No. 326 issued by President Elpidio Quirino. Such Executive Order was chartered through Republic Act No. 5962 \"Creating the Municipality of Silago in the Province of Southern Leyte\" on June 21, 1969.\n\nThis was made possible also through the invaluable services and voluntary effort extended by the late Canuto Capapas and Apolonio A. Lucero. These two Silagonhons even donated real properties as lands to meet the requirements of becoming a municipality.\nThe first set of Municipal Officials were appointed by President Elpidio Quirino on May 17, 1951. It was headed by Felix Balagon as Municipal Mayor, Leon Fortaliza as Vice Mayor, Manuel Tomol, Enrique Sarona, Modesto Miras and Manuel Cruzada as councilors.Mr. Pedro Tomol was appointed as Municipal Secretary.\n\nSilago got her name from the word “murcielago” which is a Spanish term for bat, because of this species' dominance in the locality. Proof to this is the giant bat sanctuary at Barangay Catmon. Along the coastal barangays of the town, there are clean beaches and a structure designed by nature lying in the town's deep blue sea known as Pelada Rock, also locally known as “\"Batong Dako\"\" meaning large rock, which was occupied and utilized as a camp by the Japanese Imperial Army during the Second World War. The peculiar beauty of this rock is enhanced with the abundance of birds hovering and built their nest on it, sea snakes making the rock as their dwelling place, with fish and other marine products surrounding it. The rock is located just a short distance from the shore of Barangay Laguma and Barangay Salvacion.\n\nFarther north, is a natural rock formation with a length of more or less 50 meters from the shore and about 10 meters wide.\n\nThe interior of Silago is mountainous, in which is the town's vast forest, home of the wild pigs locally known as “\"Baboy Ihas\"”. Among all the municipalities of the province, Silago is identified to have the biggest forest area.\n\nThe municipal tree park is another kind of tourist attraction in the municipality where fresh breeze and songs of the birds make the atmosphere pleasantly unique. On its northern part is a clean and clear river suitable for swimming.\n\nIn the upper portion of the town, at different locations, are waterfalls. Kagut-an falls is more or less 1 kilometer away from the national highway, at Barangay Katipunan. This falls is paired with another falls near its vicinity, locally called as Kagut-an Dako Dos Falls, which possesses an exceptional attraction to all who sees it. In the same barangay is another falls called Kagut-an Gamay falls. In Barangay Mercedes, about 1 kilometer distance from Mercedes Barangay Road, is Sitio Kawayan Falls with a height of about 10 meters.\n\nAnother falls is in Barangay Tubod distinctive in structure with matching cave on its opposite side. Water from this falls, along its way meets the Lanang River flow, which also has its own unique attraction.\n\nAside from Lanang River, which is located at the town's mountain barangay, is the Maag River that crosses along the national highway in Poblacion District 1. This river forms a lake that is suited for boating recreation. At the mouth of the river is the brown fine sand beach of Silago, which is more or less 1 kilometer long.\n\nIn the months of November to February, Silago's beaches are ideal for surfing with huge sea waves, comparable to waves in Siargao.\n\nO, lungsod kong mahal ikaw akong ampingan\n\nTuburan sa kinabuhi sa mga lumulupyo\n\nIkaw ang pag-laum nga nagagikan sa sidlakan\n\nIkaw akong pangga-on ug akong mahalon\n\nSilago, Silago, buot ako nga magpabilin kanimo\n\nAng imong katahom gakson ko hangtud sa kahangturan\n\nHimuon ko ang tanan alang kanimo lungsod ko\n\nKay ikaw ang gimat-an ko minahal nga yuta\n\nKalimpyo, kahimsug ug kalinaw, mao ang dalan sa Kalambuan\n\nUg kining akong kinabuhi ihalad ko kanimo Silago\n\nLuha sa kagul-anan modagayday kung ikaw pasipad-an\n\nKalipay og katawa ang matagamtaman\n\nKung ang bidlisiw sa kalampusan makit-an\n\nSilago, Silago, matin-aw pa ang suba sa paglaum\n\nMalunhaw pa gihapon ang tanaman sa kabukiran\n\nAng balod sa kadagatan may panahon pa sa iyang paglurang\n\nO, Silago, ikaw ang lungsod kong mahal\n\nO, Silago, ikaw ang lungsod kong mahal\n\nWritten and composed by: Rev. Fr. Plutarco Rodriguez and Neil Mate\n\nImplemented by: Mayor Martin “Boy” Tomol Sr.\n\nElementary schools:\n\nAlmost all barangays have Elementary / Primary Schools, few are mentioned below:\n\nHigh schools:\n\n"}
{"id": "1943246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1943246", "title": "Varroville, New South Wales", "text": "Varroville, New South Wales\n\nVarroville is a suburb of Sydney, in the state of New South Wales, Australia. Varroville is located 46 kilometres south-west of the Sydney central business district, in the local government area of the City of Campbelltown and is part of the Macarthur region. Varroville forms part of the scenic hills on the north-west side of the M5 South Western Motorway between Campbelltown and the Camden Valley Way. Of all Sydney suburbs, Varroville has the highest proportion of residents with PhDs.\n\nVarroville was originally a farm called \"Varro Ville\". An area of of land was granted by Governor Lachlan Macquarie to Robert Townson, a scientist and scholar, in 1809. Townson developed the farm and grew a vineyard and raised cattle. Townson died in 1827 and ownership passed onto Thomas Wills the brother of Sarah Redfern wife of William Redfern. In 1837 the farm was sold to Charles Sturt a famous explorer who moved in from Mittagong. James Raymond took over in 1839. Alfred Cheeke, a supreme court judge was a later owner. By 1900 Varro Ville was a leading dairy farm in the Campbelltown area. The farmhouse fell into disrepair, but has been restored by the new owners and the National Trust. The name Varroville was officially adopted in 1972 for the area between Raby and Denham Court. The area was previously part of Minto.\n\nVarroville has a number of heritage-listed sites, including:\n\nThe Mount Carmel Novitiate was built in 1966, while Mount Carmel High School opened in 1986.\n\nKooringa Reserve is located directly across the road from Mount Carmel High School. This is the home ground to the St Mary's Eagle Vale Soccer Club the largest soccer club in the Macarthur District.\n\nThe main road in Varroville is St Andrews Road. This was originally a dirt track, skirting St Andrews farm, owned by Andrew Thompson. Other roads named after saints are St James and St David.\n\n"}
{"id": "1943248", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1943248", "title": "Vaucluse, New South Wales", "text": "Vaucluse, New South Wales\n\nVaucluse is an eastern suburb of Sydney, in the state of New South Wales, Australia. It is located north-east of the Sydney central business district, in the local government areas of Waverley Council and the Municipality of Woollahra.\n\nVaucluse is located on the South Head peninsula, just South of The Gap with Sydney Harbour on the west and the Tasman Sea to the east. The Sydney Harbour side of the suburb commands views across the harbour to the Sydney Harbour Bridge. The adjacent suburbs are Watsons Bay to the north and Rose Bay and Dover Heights to the south.\n\nVaucluse is a mainly residential suburb. For many years it was the most affluent suburb in Sydney and as of May 2017, in terms of houses and properties, was in the top five most expensive suburbs. \"Tahiti\", a Hawaiian-style residence in tropical gardens above Hermit Bay, set Australian residential record when it sold to a trio of South Africans (the Krok brothers) for more than 29 million in September 2007. The Australian residential record was overtaken by Leon Kamenev, the founder of Menulog, purchasing four waterfront properties on prestigious Coolong Road for a combined 80 million in April 2016.\n\nThe vast majority of extensively high-worth properties in Vaucluse are located on the Western side of New South Head Rd towards the harbour, with less expensive housing and property being found closer East of New South Head Rd, around South Head Cemetery.\n\nBefore European settlement, the area where Vaucluse is now located was inhabited by the Birrabirragal aboriginal clan, who belonged to the coastal Dharug language group. The first European activity in the area took place not long after settlement, when a makeshift signalling station was set up on the ridge overlooking the ocean. Its role was to signal the colony if a ship was approaching. Pilots based at Camp Cove, Watsons Bay, could then meet the ship and guide it through the harbour. A formal signal station was established in 1790, serviced by a bridle trail that later became Old South Head Road in 1811.\n\nMacquarie Lighthouse was constructed on the ridge, a little south of the signal station, in 1816, having been designed by Francis Greenway, the first notable architect in the colony. Residential use of the area also developed.\n\nThe original Vaucluse House, from which the area derived its name, was built by Sir Henry Browne Hayes, who had been transported to New South Wales for kidnapping the granddaughter of a wealthy Irish banker. When he arrived, in 1802, he was allowed to buy land from that which was granted to Thomas Laycock in 1793 and Robert Cardell in 1795. The house was then acquired by Captain John Piper in 1822. Sir Henry Browne Hayes, an avid admirer of the 14th-century poet Petrarch, named the house after Petrarch's poem about the famous Fontaine de Vaucluse near the town L'Isle-sur-la-Sorgue, currently in the Department of Vaucluse in southern France. In 1827, the small but charming cottage was bought by William Charles Wentworth (1790–1872), barrister and explorer and one of the men who had crossed the Blue Mountains in 1813. Many structural changes and additions were made while he lived there until 1853. The building has fifteen bedrooms, is in the 1830s Gothic style and sits on of gardens. It still survives and is listed on the (now defunct) Register of the National Estate.\n\nIn the early 1840s, the present signal station was built by the Colonial Architect, Mortimer Lewis. It has continued to be used up to the present day for controlling shipping in and out of the harbour. Later in the same decade, more residential development occurred with the construction of Greycliffe House at Shark Beach by a son-in-law of William Charles Wentworth. It was a large, sandstone house in the \"Victorian Rustic Gothic\" style, attributed to the architect John Hilly. A succession of prominent Sydney identities leased the house during the 19th century. It was gutted by fire in the 1890s but fully restored. It is now used as the visitor centre for the Sydney Harbour National Park.\n\nAnother substantial residential development was the construction, in 1854–56, of Carrara on the harbour foreshores. Carrara was designed by John Hilly for John Hosking, the first Lord Mayor of Sydney. The house featured verandahs with Doric columns and was situated to take advantage of the harbour views. Its name was changed to Strickland House in 1915, when it was turned into a convalescent home for women.\n\nBy 1871, the colony was experiencing the \"Russian scare\" that prevailed at the time, as a result of which fortifications were built at Steel Point, just a little north-west of Carrara. Cannon emplacements, powder magazine and embrasures, plus a store and barrack rooms, were constructed at this strategic point overlooking the harbour. The buildings were made of sandstone found at the site and still survive today; they are listed on the Register of the National Estate.\n\nNot long afterwards, Mortimer Lewis was designing a tomb for the Wentworth family. William Charles Wentworth died in England in 1872 and his remains were interred in the Victorian Gothic mausoleum that was constructed in Chapel Road, Vaucluse. Made of sandstone, the building featured a stained glass window in the west end and a clerestory window above the door.\n\nAround about the same time, Edward Mason Hunt was busy designing a Victorian Gothic mansion south of Carrara. This two-storey sandstone home incorporated a much smaller home built at that site by Alexander Dick, circa 1840; that home changed hands in 1868 and enlargement proceeded. The new mansion, known as The Hermitage, featured multiple gables, a castellated tower and prominent fretwork. It was damaged by fire in 1936 but was restored by Emil Sodersten. It was bought in 1964 by the Woolworths company, which used it for some time as a training facility.\n\nJust a little East of The Hermitage, St Michael's Church of England went up in 1877, after being designed by Edmund Blacket. Located in St Michael's Place, this new sandstone church would later be enlarged in the 1930s, with the addition of a new spire, by Professor Leslie Wilkinson. The new design would eventually win the Sulman Prize for architecture in 1942. In 1928, the largest property purchase in the history of Vaucluse was completed by Bariston and Decima Ashton joining 8 adjoining blocks into one large single block of 2.25 acres. This record was surpassed in 2011 with the Department of Foreign Affairs purchase of 3 acres in lower Vaucluse.\n\nBy the 1880s, Greenway's Macquarie Lighthouse was in bad repair. In 1883, the Colonial Architect of the day, James Barnet, built a new lighthouse which was virtually a perfect replica of the original one, and the original was demolished. Other buildings making up the group were the assistant lighthouse keepers' cottages, built circa 1881, and Greenway's keeper's cottage, dating from circa 1840. There are also remains of courtyards to earlier cottages and the stone base wall of the original lighthouse. The entire group is listed on the Register of the National Estate.\n\nSeveral are located on the shores and cliff tops of Vaucluse, such as the Signal Hill Battery, constructed in 1892; it was intended to defend the town of Sydney from bombardment by an enemy vessel standing off the coast. Although the fortification has been heavily vandalised, it is still intact and lies adjacent to the Signal Hill, signal station.\n\nThe Steel Point fortification in Nielsen Park was constructed in 1871; it originally accommodated three 80-pounder rifled muzzle-loaders (RMLs) that were replaced in the 1890s with 5 inch breech-loading guns. The fortification was built at a time when fears of a Russian attack seemed imminent, as well as other concerns such as withdrawal of British garrison troops, threats to British dependencies and increasing self-reliance in defence matters. The battery consisted of three sandstone gun emplacements with embrasures for the guns to fire through. The gun emplacements were connected to underground chambers, as well as a gunpowder magazine, by open passages and underground passageways leading into the complex.\n\nIn the 1950s, the RAN degaussing station was constructed over part of the Steel Point fortification. The degaussing station was a countermeasure against magnetic mines. Shark Island was used for this purpose during World War II. Naval ships would pass over cables laid under the harbour and were effectively demagnetized.\n\nVaucluse has a number of heritage-listed sites, including:\n\nIn the 2016 Census, there were 9,337 people in Vaucluse. 57.5% of people were born in Australia. The next most common countries of birth were South Africa 7.8%, England 5.2%, China 2.3%, New Zealand 1.9% and Israel 1.4%. 74.4% of people only spoke English at home. Other languages spoken at home included Mandarin 2.3%, Greek 2.2%, Russian 1.8%, Hebrew 1.8% and Italian 1.3%. The most common responses for religion were Judaism 23.2%, No Religion 22.6%, Catholic 19.8% and Anglican 11.5%.\n\nThe Macquarie Lighthouse sits prominently on the eastern side of the suburb, at Dunbar Head. Vaucluse House is an historic home managed by the Historic Houses Trust.I t is situated in Wentworth Road, with views across Sydney Harbour.\n\nSouth Head General Cemetery is situated at the junction of New South Head Road and Old South Head Road in Vaucluse. The cemetery is administered by Waverley Council and is a companion cemetery to the Waverley Cemetery at .\n\nThe cemetery was established in 1868 to cater for the needs of the population in the growing Vaucluse area. It was run for some time by a private trust, but management was transferred to Waverley Council in 1941. It covers an expanse of and contains the graves of 6,000 people as of 2008. There are a number of well-known people interred at the cemetery including Australia's first Prime Minister, Sir Edmund Barton.\n\nArchitect John Horbury Hunt's last commission was a memorial to Sir John Robertson, former Premier of New South Wales. The memorial is shaped like a cone with two sections, the bottom of which commemorates Robertson's wife, while the top half commemorates Robertson himself. Also interred in this cemetery are members of the Fairfax, Norton, Packer, and Street families; and NSW Governors Sir Walter Edward Davidson and Sir Roden Cutler. The cemetery also contains the graves of 22 of the forty victims of the 1927 \"Greycliffe\" ferry disaster.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1943253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1943253", "title": "Villawood, New South Wales", "text": "Villawood, New South Wales\n\nVillawood, a suburb of local government areas City of Canterbury-Bankstown and City of Fairfield, is 25 kilometres west of the Sydney central business district, in the state of New South Wales, Australia, and is a part of the Greater Western Sydney region. Villawood is home to Villawood Immigration Detention Centre, a detention facility used in the processing of asylum seekers and illegal immigrants.\n\nThe Aboriginal tribe of Gandangara once lived in the area. European settlement began in the early 1840s. During the 1860s, Villawood was used as pastoral land, but it was overrun with wild dogs. Woodville Road, which runs through Villawood, was once named Dog Trap Road because many farmers set dog traps for these wild dogs. A train station opened in 1922 to service the area was originally known as Woodville Road. Unfortunately, there was confusion with another place called Woodville in the Hunter Valley and thus the name was transposed into 'Villawood'.\n\nVillawood East Public School and Sacred Heart Primary School are located in the suburb. There are also day and community centres, several Christian churches and a Mosque conducts Islamic services in the old post office building on Woodville road at the shopping centre.\n\nVillawood Place was once a major shopping centre, serving the surrounding areas. After nearby Bass Hill Plaza opened, many Villawood businesses went into decline, leaving a legacy of abandoned shop fronts and buildings, including the abandoned Franklins supermarket and large Australia Post office. There has been rejuvenation and renovation of Woodville (Villawood) Place since with construction of the new Aldi supermarket, Bunnings, a bakery, chemists, grocers and other shops. It is located in proximity to Villawood railway station. A business park in Villawood holds enterprises concerning hardware products, furniture, auto parts and second-hand goods. Leightonfield railway station services an industrial area in the eastern part of Villawood.\n\nVilawood now houses a variety of youth recreational and entertainment venues including AMF Bowling, Wiggles World, M9 Laser Skirmish, Sydney Indoor Climbing Gym, and Kartatak go-karting, and further recreational and food attractions are planned. These are all part of a complex called The Woods Action Centre, which is located on the northern side of the railway line, directly across the road from the station on the Villawood station exit which is opposite the shopping centre. For fast food, Villawood has KFC, McDonald's, Domino's, and Hungry Jack's.\n\nVillawood railway station and Leightonfield railway station are on the Bankstown Line of the Sydney Trains network.\n\nApart from the Woods Action centre (see above) which includes Indoor Climbing, Ten-pin bowling, Go-karting and the Wiggles indoor play centre, Villawood is home to three other major sport and recreation areas: The Wran Leisure Centre, Thurina Park and Villawood Skatepark.\n\nThe Wran Leisure Centre (named after Neville Wran) houses a swimming pool, tennis courts, a gymnasium and squash courts.\nThurina Park houses two multi purpose sporting fields that cater for soccer, cricket and baseball. Thurina Park is also home to the Villawood United Soccer Club.\n\nAt the , Villawood recorded a population of 6,032. Of these:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1943256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1943256", "title": "Vineyard, New South Wales", "text": "Vineyard, New South Wales\n\nVineyard (pronounced \"Vinyard\") is a suburb of Sydney, in the state of New South Wales, Australia. Vineyard is located 50 kilometres west of the Sydney central business district, in the local government area of the City of Blacktown with part of it in the City of Hawkesbury. Vineyard is part of the Greater Western Sydney region. It is bounded in the west by Eastern Creek until its confluence with South Creek, a tributary of the Hawkesbury River.\n\nVineyard takes its name from the vineyards in this area, since this suburb was originally part of Windsor’s winegrowing district. \n\nThe first vineyard was set up by John Paul Ouvrier (he changed his name from \"Jean Pierre Ouvrier\" to John Paul when he became a Naturalised Australian citizen in 1860), who had immigrated from France with his 2 sons around the 1830s.\n\nVineyard is situated between the Richmond Road running from Blacktown to Richmond, and the Windsor Road running from Windsor to North Parramatta. Windsor Road is currently (December 2006) undergoing a major upgrade to four lanes.\n\nVineyard railway station is on the Richmond branch of the North Shore & Western Line of the Sydney Trains network, between Blacktown and Richmond. It provides regular commuter electric train services in both directions.\n"}
{"id": "1943258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1943258", "title": "Pleasant Street station (MBTA)", "text": "Pleasant Street station (MBTA)\n\nPleasant Street is an aboveground at-grade station on the Green Line \"B\" Branch of the MBTA subway system in Boston, Massachusetts. It is located in the median of Commonwealth Avenue, on the western side of its intersection with Harry Agganis Way (on the north side) and Pleasant Street (on the south side, extending into Brookline). It serves the western end of the John Hancock Student Village at Boston University.\n\nPleasant Street was also served by the \"A\" Branch until its 1969 discontinuance.\n\nIn 2014, the MBTA began planning consolidate four stops - Boston University West, St. Paul Street, Pleasant Street, and Babcock Street - located near Boston University's West Campus. The four stops, which are not accessible, will be turned into two fully accessible stops as part of a reconfiguration of Commonwealth Avenue between the Boston University Bridge and Packard's Corner. Pleasant Street and Babcock Street stations will be consolidated into one station in the block between the two streets.\n\nWork was delayed by the need to complete other roadwork on Commonwealth Avenue. The MBTA awarded a $17.8 million construction contract on March 23, 2020. Construction will last from fall 2020 to fall 2021, with night and weekend bustitution for 32 weeks.\n\n"}
{"id": "1943260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1943260", "title": "Undercliffe, New South Wales", "text": "Undercliffe, New South Wales\n\nUndercliffe is an area in the east of the suburb of Earlwood in south-western Sydney, in the state of New South Wales, Australia. Undercliffe is located 10 kilometres south-west of the Sydney central business district in the local government area of the City of Canterbury-Bankstown.\n\nUndercliffe was a suburb of Sydney until incorporation into Earlwood in 1993.\n\nUndercliffe is located on the peninsula between the Cooks River and Wolli Creek. Bayview Avenue and Unwins Bridge link Undercliffe north over the Cooks River to Tempe. Another bridge links Illawarra Road over the Cooks River to Marrickville. Wolli Creek and Turrella are located on the opposite bank of Wolli Creek, to the south, with footbridges being the only direct links to these suburbs.\n\nUndercliffe is a predominantly residential area. The northern end of the peninsula is characterised by parkland and recreational areas. Canterbury Velodrome is located at Waterworth Park, beside Wolli Creek. Gough Whitlam Park is a large recreational area, beside Cooks River. The popular Cooks River bicycle track follows the river along its northern bank connecting the suburb with Homebush to the north-west and Botany Bay to the east.\n\nUndercliffe Public School is located in Bayview Avenue. The Transfiguration of Our Lord Greek Orthodox Church is also located in Bayview Avenue.\n\nUndercliffe takes its name from the heavy sandstone outcrop which is quite evident. The Undercliffe Estate was the name of an 1840s land grant which had a house built on it. In the early days, the quarrying of sandstone between Wolli Creek and Cooks River provided the first industry here. Some homes were built completely from sandstone, while almost all others used sandstone for their foundations. Amongst notable land owners in the area was retired East India Company Judge James Donnithorne (1773-1852) who owned shares in the Undercliffe Estate, which upon his death were passed to his daughter Eliza Emily (1826-1886) a recluse who leased out the land until her death. It was then sold and eventually subdivided for housing. \n\nA wooden bridge was built across the Cooks River in 1836 to carry the Illawarra Road across the river. It was known as Tompsons Bridge, after Mr P. A. Tompson's father who purchased the Bexley estate from James Chandler. The bridge was washed away several times during floods. later, Frederick Wright Unwin, a Sydney Solicitor, built a bridge on the peninsula between Cooks River and Wolli Creek to provide access to his property. Unwin had bought his property from Arthur Martin in 1840 and built a large home known as Wanstead, after a village in Essex, England. Unwins Bridge, Unwins Bridge Road, Wanstead Avenue and Wanstead Avenue Reserve commemorate these names. Waterworth Park was set aside as a reserve in 1906 when it was declared unhealthy and unsuitable for residences.\n\nBetween 1912 and 1957, electric trams operated through Undercliffe along Illawarra Road and Homer Street on their way to the west of Earlwood, providing service to the city via Marrickville and Newtown. The service is now operated by buses.\n\nUndercliffe has a number of heritage-listed sites, including:\n"}
{"id": "1943301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1943301", "title": "Stiga", "text": "Stiga\n\nStiga Group (formerly GGP Spa) is the leading European manufacturer and distributor of lawnmowers and a wide range of motorized garden tools. It is headquartered in Castelfranco Veneto (Italy). Stiga has 13 subsidiaries in Europe (Austria, Italy, Benelux, Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Norway, Poland, Sweden, UK).\nStiga distributes and sells its products in over 70 countries around the world.\n\nStiga was originally a Swedish brand known for the production and distribution of lawnmowers, a wide range of motorized garden tools, snowmakers, and table tennis products and table hockey games. \nIn year 2000 Stiga is acquired by Castelgarden SpA via a merger with Alpina Professional & Garden SpA, both situated in Italy. The company's expansion in Europe continues with the acquisition of Mountfield. Together they form Global Garden Products (GGP) Group then renamed Stiga Group in 2017.\n\nThe brand Stiga is today used by the Swedish company Stiga Sports for the production of sports products, including table tennis, snowriders and table hockey. Stiga started the production of table tennis products in 1938 and the production of hockey games in 1944. \nThe production of table is now operated under the brand \"Stiga Sport\", and it has been manufacturing tennis products since 1944. It started the production of table hockey games in 1957 and it was a huge success. The company started the production of lawnmowers in 1958.\n\nBengt Bandstigen founded the table tennis company Banda in 1966, which later became Stiga Sports AB. In 1983 the company begun to sell Stiga table tennis products and year 2006 it acquired the Stiga Games division to the company.\n\nBrand History\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1943305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1943305", "title": "Conargo", "text": "Conargo\n\nConargo is a town in the Riverina region of New South Wales, Australia. The town is in the Edward River Council local government area. It is on the Billabong Creek, a tributary of the Murrumbidgee River. The nearest towns are Jerilderie and Deniliquin. At the 2006 census, Conargo had a population of 188 people.\n\nThe Aboriginal name for the locality of Conargo was 'Gooriara', meaning \"hopping\" or \"kangaroo ground\".\n\nThe actual town itself is quite small, with only a pub, a convenience store that sells fuel and a small number of houses. There are five nearby villages - Blighty, Mayrung, Pretty Pine, Wanganella and Booroorban.\n\nThe surrounding rural area consists of large sheep stations, including some Merino studs.\n\nIn 1859 William McKenzie opened the Conargo Inn there (named after the nearby \"Conargo\" pastoral run). A township at Conargo was laid out in 1860 by the surveyor McCulloch. During 1865 another hotel was built at the village - the Riverine Hotel (publican James McKeys). At about the same time the Conargo Inn, together with , was sold for £1,857 to T. Robertson. Conargo Post Office opened on 1 September 1864 and closed in 1988. In 1866 Conargo was reported as having a population of thirty persons, with a post-office, a store, and two hotels.  In 1867 the Billabong Hotel was added to Conargo's hotels (with David Rogers as its first publican). In 1869 the Baker brothers built a store there. In 1872 Conargo was described as a small village with a store and three hotels.\n\nIn February 1878 a correspondent to the \"Town and Country Journal\" said: \"Conargo... was once - according to tradition - intended to be a town, which attempt finally diminished to a total failure\". The writer added that the proprietor of the only store in the village had recently died after \"a long and continued illness\". Of the three hotels it was claimed the Conargo Hotel was the \"better house\", doing \"a great deal more business than the other two combined\".\n\nThe Conargo Public School opened in 1879.\n\nThe Conargo Pub was destroyed by fire on 11 November 2014.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1943310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1943310", "title": "Young Ireland", "text": "Young Ireland\n\nYoung Ireland (, ) was a political, cultural and social movement of the mid-19th century. It began as a tendency within Daniel O'Connell's Repeal Association, associated with \"The Nation\" newspaper, but eventually split to found the Irish Confederation in 1847. Young Ireland led changes in Irish nationalism, including an abortive rebellion known as the Young Irelander Rebellion of 1848. Many of the rebellion's leaders were tried for sedition and sentenced to penal transportation to Van Diemen's Land. From its beginnings in the late 1830s, Young Ireland grew in influence and inspired following generations of Irish nationalists. Some of the junior members of the movement went on to found the Irish Republican Brotherhood.\n\nThe name Young Ireland was originally used in a disparaging way to describe the group of young Repeal Association members who were associated with \"The Nation\" newspaper. At the time, the Repeal Association was campaigning for the repeal of the Act of Union 1800 between the kingdoms of Great Britain and Ireland. The term was first coined by the \"English\" press, and later used by leader Daniel O'Connell in a vindictive attack at Conciliation Hall, home of the Repeal Association.\n\nYoung Ireland traced its origins to the new College Historical Society, founded on 29 March 1839, at a meeting at Francis Kearney's chambers, 27 College. Among the members of this new society were Charles Gavan Duffy; Jane Wilde; Margaret Callan; John Mitchel; Thomas Meagher; William Smith O'Brien; John Blake Dillon, Thomas MacNevin, William Eliot Hudson and Thomas Davis, who was elected its president in 1840. While still at Trinity College, Davis had addressed the Dublin Historical Society, which met at the Dorset Institute in Upper Sackville Street from 1836 to 1838. Davis became president and gave two lectures. (Available from the National Library of Ireland, the lectures clearly show that Davis had become a convinced Irish nationalist by this period.\n\nOn 15 April 1840, Daniel O’Connell held the first meeting of his new Repeal Association, in the Corn Exchange, Dublin. The group was received with sneers, and O’Connell's sincerity was questioned. In the General Election in 1832, O’Connell had made the same appeal for repeal. Although half the representatives chosen for Ireland were pledged Repealers, O’Connell dropped the demand. Several new members accepted appointments under the system they had pledged to overthrow. Since that time, O’Connell had become a close ally of the Whigs. As they were expected to fall from power in 1840, activists' renewing the agitation for Repeal was suspected as a device to embarrass the new administration. Not one man of status, outside the members of the defunct Association, joined the ranks of the new one. With the new Association's mounting debts, the contributions from its members not sufficient to pay half its ordinary expenses, both Thomas Davis and John Blake Dillon, joined its ranks in April 1841, having in the process, to overcome their dislike of the abusive tone of O’Connell's agitation. O’Connell welcomed them and made them members of the General Committee, which controlled the organisation of the Association. The two men began their work in earnest; Davis first became Chairman of a sub-committee in charge of the registers of the Association, which contained the names of all the Members.\nDavis thus could communicate with all the leading politicians of the Party, and whenever he came across any with depth or ability; he at once developed into friendly associations. In the autumn of 1841, Dillon and Davis took over the roles of Editor and sub-Editor of the \"Morning Register\", a Dublin daily paper belonging to Alderman Staunton, which had been the organ of the Catholic Association, and “was generally regarded among the mercenaries” of the Dublin Castle, according to Michael Doheny, who was to become one of Young Ireland's leading figures. As editors they featured articles on such topics as Protestant nationality, historical parallels from classic and mediaeval history, and agencies and conditions of guerrilla warfare. Michael Doheny suggests in his \"Felon’s Track\" that “all Dublin was startled by the originality, vigour and brilliancy of its articles”. It was also at this time that they first came into contact with Charles Gavan Duffy. On Duffy's next visit to Dublin some six months later, he discovered that Davis and Dillon had abandoned their experiment with the \"Register\". Davis had no way to reach a wider public, even with his contributions to the \"Dublin Monthly Magazine\".\n\nThe three decided to found a new national newspaper, which they called \"The Nation\". Into this new venture, Dillon brought two young friends, the barrister John O'Hagan and law student John Edward Pigot. Davis brought some of his circle of young friends from the Historical Society, and Duffy brought in the poet James Clarence Mangan; William O’Neill Daunt, a County Cork landowner; and T. M. Hughes, former editor of the \"London Charivari\", which was later absorbed into \"Punch\". On 15 October 1842, the first number of \"The Nation\" was launched. “The appearance of \"The Nation\" and its immediate and phenomenal success was a reinforcement for which O’Connell had scarcely dared to hope”.\nFor the next three years, the newspaper was a major influence in nationalist thinking. O’Connell was aware of the significance of the support of the young men, but was wary of their professed freedom from the “gratitude of the past.” Davis was a skilful propagandist who worked behind the scenes, but exerted a singular influence. The success of the newspaper soon produced significant results. One of the most distinctive developments was the organisation of Repeal reading rooms all over the country which \"The Nation\" was soon addressed. They found this an effective method of spreading their propaganda. By the spring of 1843, when \"The Nation\" had been in existence for six months, agitation for Repeal was becoming formidable, and the Government was beginning to consider the old problem of how to suppress it.\n\nWhen members of the association, the Young Irelanders did not advocate use of physical force to advance the cause of repeal and opposed any such policy, O'Connell's introduction of the “Peace Resolutions” in the Repeal Association was in part an attempt to suggest the Young Irelanders were forces for violence. The \"Peace Resolutions\" stated that physical force could never be justified under any circumstances, at any time, and this was to be applied retrospectively. The use of physical force only became an issue with the Young Irelanders, after they had left the association, and had formed the Irish Confederation.\n\nO'Connell had used the threat of force, as was seen in his campaign for Catholic Emancipation, but afterward he did not have the will. This was demonstrated by the cancelled 'monster meeting' planned for Clontarf in 1843. The monster Meetings were long a design of Thomas Davis, John Blake Dillon and Michael Doheny. The object of which was to train the people to military movements, since this object would obviously be unsafe to announce, it was to be effected by other means. Daniel O’Connell was fully aware of their intent at the time, though he later denied it and repudiated those involved. This meeting was prohibited by the British government, backed up with the threat of military force. O'Connell took a political decision to not press ahead with the summoning of the planned meeting for Clontarf, as the government had plans ready to suppress it. This diminished his credibility with the British – they were only prepared to concede when they believed that there was a serious risk of an uprising. The Young Irelanders had always agreed with Daniel O'Connell and the Repeal Association in its demand for repeal, but split, when it did come, was over O'Connell's attempts to form an alliance with the Whig Party in England, which would have led to the dropping of repeal, as had happened in 1835. While the pretence used by O’Connell's supporters, was the adoption of the Peace Resolutions.\n\nDuring the Great Famine, Young Irelanders rejected any appeal to Britain for help, out of a belief that this would undermine the case for self-governance. Although they maintained this attitude even if British aid would save Irish lives, the Nation also claimed that the British Parliament was only capable of doing harm in Ireland.\n\nLate in the autumn of 1846, some prominent men undertook the task of remonstrating with the Repeal Association. Among them were Mr. Keeley, Mr. Holywood, Mr. Crean and Mr. Halpin, all prominent Dublin citizens. A few weeks later, a remonstrance at the course pursued by the Association was produced and was signed by fifteen hundred leading citizens of Dublin. It was delivered to the Chairman of the Repeal Association on 2 October. This remonstrance was ordered by John O’Connell (Daniel O’Connell's son), to be flung into the gutter. The Remonstrants and the public resented this humiliation, and determined to hold a meeting in the Rotunda, Dublin, where they proposed to defend themselves against this indignity. The meeting was held on 3 November. Mr. Thomas D'Arcy McGee, who had never been a Member of the Association attended, and his speech described by Michael Doheny to be \"calm, forcible and conclusive on the points at issue; and the excitement it created was, in no small degree, enhanced by the fact that the speaker was a young man theretofore unknown\".\n\nThe success of the meeting suggested the possibility of an experiment upon a large scale, as a preliminary to the formation of the Confederation. The meeting was set for the 2 December. The main object was to reply to the calumnies which, for nearly six months, had been urged against the leading seceders. The remonstrant committee offered to defend them against any allegations put by the Repeal Association. The meeting was one of the most important ever held in the city. The entire ability of the seceders was put into its preparation. Michael Doheny states that \"such was the sensation created by the proceedings that two publishers, one in Dublin and one in Belfast, brought out reports, in pamphlet form, which were read all over the country with the greatest avidity\". It was suggested, casually at the meeting, that the seceders would meet in January to announce the course of political action they would recommend. On 13 January, the seceders met again, and their deliberations were supported again by the same men, to secure to the seceders freedom of speech and of action. It was at this meeting the Irish Confederation was fully established. The foundations of which were to be freedom, tolerance and truth. There were no declarations or calls for rebellion, and no pledges of peace were given. The objectives were they outlined the independence of the Irish nation and no means to attain that end were abjured, save such as were inconsistent with honour, morality and reason.\n\nThe Young Irelanders were inspired by the French Revolution, and popular uprisings in 1848 across Europe in which governments and monarchies toppled in favour of democratic reforms.\n\nWilliam Smith O'Brien, the leader of the Young Ireland Party, launched an attempted rebellion in July 1848, in response to the introduction of martial law. He gathered landlords and tenants together with Young Irelanders. O'Brien's failure to capture a party of police barricaded in widow McCormack's house, who were holding her children as hostages, marked the effective end of the revolt. Though intermittent resistance continued till late 1849, O'Brien and his colleagues were quickly arrested and convicted of sedition. Originally sentenced to death, the young men received a great outpouring of public support. The government commuted their sentences to penal transportation to Van Diemen's Land, where they joined John Mitchel. The \"Irish gentlemen\" were assigned to different settlements to try to reduce their continued collaboration.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1943311", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1943311", "title": "Textile industry", "text": "Textile industry\n\nThe textile industry is primarily concerned with the design, production and distribution of yarn, cloth and clothing. The raw material may be natural, or synthetic using products of the chemical industry.\n\nCotton is the world's most important natural fibre. In the year 2007, the global yield was 25 million tons from 35 million hectares cultivated in more than 50 countries.\nThere are five stages:\nCotton can be obtained in many ways like from weaving,knitting,even by using hand looms and power looms \n\nArtificial fibres can be made by extruding a polymer, through a spinneret into a medium where it hardens. Wet spinning (rayon) uses a coagulating medium. In dry spinning (acetate and triacetate), the polymer is contained in a solvent that evaporates in the heated exit chamber. In melt spinning (nylons and polyesters) the extruded polymer is cooled in gas or air and then sets. All these fibres will be of great length, often kilometres long.\n\nArtificial fibres can be processed as long fibres or batched and cut so they can be processed like a natural fibre.\n\nNatural fibres are either from animals (sheep, goat, rabbit, silk-worm) mineral (asbestos) or from plants (cotton, flax, sisal). These vegetable fibres can come from the seed (cotton), the stem (known as bast fibres: flax, hemp, jute) or the leaf (sisal). Without exception, many processes are needed before a clean even staple is obtained- each with a specific name. With the exception of silk, each of these fibres is short, being only centimeters in length, and each has a rough surface that enables it to bond with similar staples.\n\n There are some indications that weaving was already known in the Palaeolithic. An indistinct textile impression has been found at Pavlov, Moravia. Neolithic textiles were found in pile dwellings excavations in Switzerland and at El Fayum, Egypt at a site which dates to about 5000 BC.\n\nIn Roman times, wool, linen and leather clothed the European population, and silk, imported along the Silk Road from China, was an extravagant luxury. The use of flax fiber in the manufacturing of cloth in Northern Europe dates back to Neolithic times.\n\nDuring the late medieval period, cotton began to be imported into Northern Europe. Without any knowledge of what it came from, other than that it was a plant, noting its similarities to wool, people in the region could only imagine that cotton must be produced by plant-borne sheep. John Mandeville, writing in 1350, stated as fact the now-preposterous belief: \"There grew in India a wonderful tree which bore tiny lambs on the edges of its branches. These branches were so pliable that they bent down to allow the lambs to feed when they are hungry.\" This aspect is retained in the name for cotton in many European languages, such as German \"Baumwolle\", which translates as \"tree wool\". By the end of the 16th century, cotton was cultivated throughout the warmer regions of Asia and the Americas.\n\nThe main steps in the production of cloth are producing the fibre, preparing it, converting it to yarn, converting yarn to cloth, and then finishing the cloth. The cloth is then taken to the manufacturer of garments. The preparation of the fibres differs the most, depending on the fibre used. Flax requires retting and dressing, while wool requires carding and washing. The spinning and weaving processes are very similar between fibers, however.\n\nSpinning evolved from twisting the fibers by hand, to using a drop spindle, to using a spinning wheel. Spindles or parts of them have been found in archaeological sites and may represent one of the first pieces of technology available. The spinning wheel was most likely invented in the Islamic world by the 11th century.\n\nThe textile industry in India traditionally, after agriculture, is the only industry that has generated huge employment for both skilled and unskilled labour in textiles. The textile industry continues to be the second-largest employment generating sector in India. It offers direct employment to over 35 million in the country. According to the Ministry of Textiles, the share of textiles in total exports during April–July 2010 was 11.04%. During 2009–2010, the Indian textile industry was pegged at 55 billion, 64% of which services domestic demand. In 2010, there were 2,500 textile weaving factories and 4,135 textile finishing factories in all of India. According to AT Kearney’s ‘Retail Apparel Index’, India was ranked as the fourth most promising market for apparel retailers in 2009.\n\nIndia is first in global jute production and shares 63% of the global textile and garment market. India is second in global textile manufacturing and also second in silk and cotton production. 100% FDI is allowed via automatic route in textile sector. Rieter, Trutzschler, Saurer, Soktas, Zambiati, Bilsar, Monti, CMT, E-land, Nisshinbo, Marks & Spencer, Zara, Promod, Benetton, and Levi’s are some of the foreign textile companies invested or working in India.\n\nThe key British industry at the beginning of the 18th century was the production of textiles made with wool from the large sheep-farming areas in the Midlands and across the country (created as a result of land-clearance and enclosure). This was a labour-intensive activity providing employment throughout Britain, with major centres being the West Country; Norwich and environs; and the West Riding of Yorkshire. The export trade in woolen goods accounted for more than a quarter of British exports during most of the 18th century, doubling between 1701 and 1770.\n\nExports by the cotton industry – centered in Lancashire – had grown tenfold during this time, but still accounted for only a tenth of the value of the woolen trade. Before the 17th century, the manufacture of goods was performed on a limited scale by individual workers, usually on their own premises (such as weavers' cottages). Goods were transported around the country by clothiers who visited the village with their trains of packhorses. Some of the cloth was made into clothes for people living in the same area, and a large amount of cloth was exported. River navigations were constructed, and some contour-following canals. In the early 18th century, artisans were inventing ways to become more productive. Silk, wool, fustian, and linen were being eclipsed by cotton, which was becoming the most important textile. This set the foundations for the changes.\n\nThe woven fabric portion of the textile industry grew out of the industrial revolution in the 18th century as mass production of yarn and cloth became a mainstream industry.\n\nIn 1734 in Bury, Lancashire John Kay invented the flying shuttle — one of the first of a series of inventions associated with the cotton woven fabric industry. The flying shuttle increased the width of cotton cloth and speed of production of a single weaver at a loom. Resistance by workers to the perceived threat to jobs delayed the widespread introduction of this technology, even though the higher rate of production generated an increased demand for spun cotton. \n\nIn 1761, the Duke of Bridgewater's canal connected Manchester to the coal fields of Worsley and in 1762, Matthew Boulton opened the Soho Foundry engineering works in Handsworth, Birmingham. His partnership with Scottish engineer James Watt resulted, in 1775, in the commercial production of the more efficient Watt steam engine which used a separate condenser.\n\nIn 1764, James Hargreaves is credited as inventor of the spinning jenny which multiplied the spun thread production capacity of a single worker — initially eightfold and subsequently much further. Others credit the invention to Thomas Highs. Industrial unrest and a failure to patent the invention until 1770 forced Hargreaves from Blackburn, but his lack of protection of the idea allowed the concept to be exploited by others. As a result, there were over 20,000 spinning jennies in use by the time of his death. Also in 1764, Thorp Mill, the first water-powered cotton mill in the world was constructed at Royton, Lancashire, and was used for carding cotton. With the spinning and weaving process now mechanized, cotton mills cropped up all over the North West of England.\n\nThe stocking frame invented in 1589 for silk became viable when in 1759, Jedediah Strutt introduced an attachment for the frame which produced what became known as the Derby Rib, that produced a knit and purl stitch. This allowed stockings to be manufactured in silk and later in cotton. In 1768, Hammond modified the stocking frame to weave weft-knitted openworks or nets by crossing over the loops, using a mobile tickler bar- this led in 1781 to Thomas Frost's square net. Cotton had been too coarse for lace, but by 1805 Houldsworths of Manchester were producing reliable 300 count cotton thread.\n\nWith the Cartwright Loom, the Spinning Mule and the Boulton & Watt steam engine, the pieces were in place to build a mechanised woven fabric textile industry. From this point there were no new inventions, but a continuous improvement in technology as the mill-owner strove to reduce cost and improve quality. Developments in the transport infrastructure; that is the canals and after 1831 the railways facilitated the import of raw materials and export of finished cloth.\n\nFirstly, the use of water power to drive mills was supplemented by steam driven water pumps, and then superseded completely by the steam engines. For example, Samuel Greg joined his uncle's firm of textile merchants, and, on taking over the company in 1782, he sought out a site to establish a mill.Quarry Bank Mill was built on the River Bollin at Styal in Cheshire. It was initially powered by a water wheel, but installed steam engines in 1810. Quarry Bank Mill in Cheshire still exists as a well-preserved museum, having been in use from its construction in 1784 until 1959. It also illustrates how the mill owners exploited child labour, taking orphans from nearby Manchester to work the cotton. It shows that these children were housed, clothed, fed and provided with some education. In 1830, the average power of a mill engine was 48 hp, but Quarry Bank mill installed a new 100 hp water wheel. William Fairbairn addressed the problem of line-shafting and was responsible for improving the efficiency of the mill. In 1815 he replaced the wooden turning shafts that drove the machines at 50rpm, to wrought iron shafting working at 250 rpm, these were a third of the weight of the previous ones and absorbed less power.\nSecondly, in 1830, using an 1822 patent, Richard Roberts manufactured the first loom with a cast iron frame, the Roberts Loom. In 1842 James Bullough and William Kenworthy, made the Lancashire Loom, a semiautomatic power loom: although it is self-acting, it has to be stopped to recharge empty shuttles. It was the mainstay of the Lancashire cotton industry for a century, until the Northrop Loom (invented in 1894, with an automatic weft replenishment function) gained ascendancy.\nThirdly, also in 1830, Richard Roberts patented the first self-acting mule. Stalybridge mule spinners strike was in 1824; this stimulated research into the problem of applying power to the winding stroke of the mule. The draw while spinning had been assisted by power, but the push of the wind had been done manually by the spinner, the mule could be operated by semiskilled labor. Before 1830, the spinner would operate a partially powered mule with a maximum of 400 spindles; after, self-acting mules with up to 1300 spindles could be built.\n\nThe industrial revolution changed the nature of work and society The three key drivers in these changes were textile manufacturing, iron founding and steam power. The geographical focus of textile manufacture in Britain was Manchester and the small towns of the Pennines and southern Lancashire.\n\nTextile production in England peaked in 1926, and as mills were decommissioned, many of the scrapped mules and looms were bought up and reinstated in India.\n\nMajor changes came to the textile industry during the 20th century, with continuing technological innovations in machinery, synthetic fibre, logistics, and globalization of the business. The business model that had dominated the industry for centuries was to change radically. Cotton and wool producers were not the only source for fibres, as chemical companies created new synthetic fibres that had superior qualities for many uses, such as rayon, invented in 1910, and DuPont's nylon, invented in 1935 as in inexpensive silk substitute, and used for products ranging from women's stockings to tooth brushes and military parachutes.\n\nThe variety of synthetic fibres used in manufacturing fibre grew steadily throughout the 20th century. In the 1920s, the computer was invented; in the 1940s, acetate, modacrylic, metal fibres, and saran were developed; acrylic, polyester, and spandex were introduced in the 1950s. Polyester became hugely popular in the apparel market, and by the late 1970s, more polyester was sold in the United States than cotton.\n\nBy the late 1980s, the apparel segment was no longer the largest market for fibre products, with industrial and home furnishings together representing a larger proportion of the fibre market. Industry integration and global manufacturing led to many small firms closing for good during the 1970s and 1980s in the United States; during those decades, 95 percent of the looms in North Carolina, South Carolina and Georgia shut down, and Alabama and Virginia also saw many factories close.\n\nThe largest exporters of textiles in 2013 were China ($274 billion), India ($40 billion), Italy ($36 billion), Germany ($35 billion), Bangladesh ($28 billion) and Pakistan ($27 Billion).\n\nThe textile sector accounts for 70% of Pakistan's exports, but the working conditions of workers are deplorable. Small manufacturing workshops generally do not sign employment contracts, do not respect the minimum wage and sometimes employ children. Violations of labour law also occur among major subcontractors of international brands, where workers may be beaten, insulted by their superiors or paid below the minimum wage. Factories do not comply with safety standards, leading to accidents: in 2012, 255 workers died in a fire at a Karachi factory. With 547 labour inspectors in Pakistan supervising the country's 300,000 factories, the textile industry is out of control. Nor are workers protected by trade unions, which are prohibited in industrial export zones. Elsewhere, \"workers involved in the creation of trade unions are victims of violence, intimidation, threats or dismissals\".\n\nMany Western multinationals use labour in Bangladesh, which is one of the cheapest in the world: 30 euros per month compared to 150 or 200 in China. Four days is enough for the CEO of one of the top five global textile brands to earn what a Bangladeshi garment worker will earn in her lifetime. In April 2013, at least 1,135 textile workers died in the collapse of their factory. Other fatal accidents due to unsanitary factories have affected Bangladesh: in 2005 a factory collapsed and caused the death of 64 people. In 2006, a series of fires killed 85 people and injured 207 others. In 2010, some 30 people died of asphyxiation and burns in two serious fires.\n\nIn 2006, tens of thousands of workers mobilized in one of the country's largest strike movements, affecting almost all of the 4,000 factories. The Bangladesh Garment Manufacturers and Exporters Association (BGMEA) uses police forces to crack down. Three workers were killed, hundreds more were wounded by bullets, or imprisoned. In 2010, after a new strike movement, nearly 1,000 people were injured among workers as a result of the repression.\n\nEmployees of Ethiopian garment factories, who work for brands such as Guess, H&M or Calvin Klein, receive a monthly salary of 26 dollars per month. These very low wages have led to low productivity, frequent strikes and high turnover. Some factories have replaced all their employees on average every 12 months, according to the 2019 report of the Stern Centre for Business and Human Rights at New York University.\n\nThe report states:\" Rather than the docile and cheap labour force promoted in Ethiopia, foreign-based suppliers have met employees who are unhappy with their pay and living conditions and who want to protest more and more by stopping work or even quitting. In their eagerness to create a \"made in Ethiopia\" brand, the government, global brands and foreign manufacturers did not anticipate that the base salary was simply too low for workers to make a living from. »\n\nThe Multi Fibre Arrangement (MFA) governed the world trade in textiles and garments from 1974 through 2004, imposing quotas on the amount developing countries could export to developed countries. It expired on 1 January 2005.\n\nThe MFA was introduced in 1974 as a short-term measure intended to allow developed countries to adjust to imports from the developing world. Developing countries have a natural advantage in textile production because it is labor-intensive and they have low labor costs. According to a World Bank/International Monetary Fund (IMF) study, the system has cost the developing world 27 million jobs and $40 billion a year in lost exports.\n\nHowever, the Arrangement was not negative for all developing countries. For example, the European Union (EU) imposed no restrictions or duties on imports from the very poor countries, such as Bangladesh, leading to a massive expansion of the industry there.\n\nAt the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) Uruguay Round, it was decided to bring the textile trade under the jurisdiction of the World Trade Organization (WTO). The WTO Agreement on Textiles and Clothing provided for the gradual dismantling of the quotas that existed under the MFA. This process was completed on 1 January 2005. However, large tariffs remain in place on many textile products.\n\nBangladesh was expected to suffer the most from the ending of the MFA, as it was expected to face more competition, particularly from China. However, this was not the case. It turns out that even in the face of other economic giants, Bangladesh's labor is “cheaper than anywhere else in the world.” While some smaller factories were documented making pay cuts and layoffs, most downsizing was essentially speculative – the orders for goods kept coming even after the MFA expired. In fact, Bangladesh's exports increased in value by about $500 million in 2006.\n\nFor textiles, like for many other products, there are certain national and international standards and regulations that need to be complied with to ensure quality, safety and sustainability.\n\nThe following standards amongst others apply to textiles:\n\n\n\n"}
