{"id": "2023424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2023424", "title": "Gewehr 98", "text": "Gewehr 98\n\nThe Gewehr 98 (abbreviated G98, Gew 98 or M98) is a German bolt action rifle made by Mauser firing cartridges from a 5-round internal clip-loaded magazine. It was the German service rifle from 1898 to 1935, when it was replaced by the Karabiner 98k, a shorter weapon using the same basic design. The Gewehr 98 action, using a stripper clip loaded with the 7.92×57mm Mauser cartridge, successfully combined and improved several bolt action engineering concepts which were soon adopted by many other countries including the UK, Japan, and the US. The Gewehr 98 replaced the earlier Gewehr 1888 as the main German service rifle. It first saw combat in the Chinese Boxer Rebellion and was the main German infantry service rifle of World War I. The Gewehr 98 saw further military use by the Ottoman Empire and Nationalist Spain.\n\nThe Gewehr 98, was introduced into German military service in 1898, replacing the Gewehr 1888. The bolt-action design was the latest refinement of the 1895 design patented by Paul Mauser on 9 September 1895. Mauser was already selling similar 1895-design weapons to many other countries, and had supplied less advanced Mauser rifles to the German Army from 1871 to 1888. The 1888 replacement for the Mauser was an internal design from the Army, but failed through an impractical design. In the interim decade, Mauser rifles became recognized as the world standard, and the German Army became outclassed by a German-made product in the hands of others.\n\nThe German \"Gewehr-Prüfungskommission\" (\"G.P.K.\") (Rifle Testing Commission) adopted the Gewehr 98 on 5 April 1898. The action was derived from the experimental Gewehr 96 Rifle. In 1901, the first troop issues of the Gewehr 98 Rifles were made to the East Asian Expeditionary Force, the Navy, and three premier Prussian army corps. The first combat use of the Gewehr 98 was during the Boxer Rebellion (1898–1901). In 1904, contracts were placed with Waffenfabrik Mauser for 290,000 rifles and Deutsche Waffen und Munitionsfabriken (DWM) for 210,000 rifles. At the outbreak of WWI in 1914, the German Army had 2,273,080 Mauser 98-rifles of all types; additional 7,000,000 were produced during the war.\n\nThe 8 mm M/88 cartridge which was introduced in 1888 and loaded with an 8.08 mm (.318 in) 14.6 g (226 gr) round nose bullet was replaced on 3 April 1903 by the 7.92×57mm Mauser \"S Patrone\" (S ball cartridge) which was loaded with a new 8.20 mm (.323 in) 9.9 g (154 gr) spitzer bullet. The ammunition conversion was indicated by a small \"S\" stamped above the chamber and on the barrel at the back of the rear sight base. This was done since the 1888 pattern M/88 cartridge and 1903 S-bore pattern cartridge are two different non-interchangeable chamberings. Since the new IS cartridge had a flatter trajectory the \"Lange Visier\" rear sight had to be changed with an \"S\"-adapted \"Lange Visier\".\n\nThe Gewehr 98 or model 98 (M98) rifle is a manually operated, magazine fed, controlled-feed bolt-action rifle, in length and in weight. It has a long rifled barrel and carries 5 rounds of ammunition in an internal magazine. The Gewehr 98 has two sling swivels, open front sights, and a curved tangent-type rear sight, known as the \"Lange Visier\".\n\nThe controlled-feed bolt-action of the Gewehr 98 is a distinct feature and is regarded as one of the major bolt-action system designs.\n\nThe controlled-feed Mauser M98 bolt action system is based on previous 19th century Mauser bolt action rifle designs and is a simple, strong, safe, and well-thought-out design intended to negate as many failure modes as possible and which inspired other military and hunting/sporting rifle designs that became available during the 20th century. A drawback of the M98 system is that it cannot be cheaply mass-produced very easily. Some other bolt-action designs (e.g. the Lee–Enfield) offer trained operators a faster rate of fire as the ergonomic relation between the bolt handle and trigger is more favorable and they can be cycled without loss of sight picture.\n\nThe M98 system consists of a receiver that serves as the system's shroud and a bolt group of which the bolt body has three locking lugs, two large main lugs at the bolt head and a third safety lug at the rear of the bolt, which serves as a backup in case the primary locking lugs failed. This third lug is a distinctive feature and was not present on previous Mauser bolt action designs. The two main locking lugs are positioned opposed to each other and display a locking surface of , whilst the third safety lug normally plays no part in locking the action to avoid asymmetric and hence unbalanced bolt thrust forces. The diameter of the M98 system receiver ring was also enlarged to diameter compared to previous Mauser \"small ring\" bolt action designs that had diameter receiver rings for additional strength and safety. Accordingly, the barrel shank was enlarged to diameter with of threaded area at 12 threads per inch compared to previous Mauser \"small shank\" bolt action designs that had diameter with of threaded area at 12 threads per inch barrel shanks for additional strength. The bolt handle is permanently attached to the bolt and, on the Gewehr 98, is straight and protrudes out for optimal leverage.\n\nAnother distinctive feature of the M98 system is the controlled-feed mechanism, consisting of a large, non-rotating claw extractor that engages the cartridge case rim as soon as the round leaves the magazine and firmly holds the cartridge case until the round is ejected by the ejector, mounted inside the receiver. Combined with a slight bolt retraction at the last stage of the bolt opening cycle, caused by the cammed surface on the rear receiver bridge, this results in a positive cartridge case extraction. The M98 bolt-action will cycle correctly, irrespective of the way the rifle is moved or positioned during the bolt cycling action or if the cartridge has been fired or not. Only if the bolt is not brought back far enough, sharply enough, in a controlled round feed bolt-action the cartridge case may not be cleanly ejected and a jam may result.\n\nThe bolt houses the firing pin mechanism that cocks when the bolt is opened, and the cocking piece protrudes visually and tactilely from the rear of the bolt to indicate the action is cocked. A cocking shroud lock that was not present on previous Mauser bolt-action designs was added. The distance the firing pin needs to travel was decreased to reduce and hence improve lock time – the amount of time between initiating the firing sequence by releasing the trigger and the firing pin striking the primer that ignites the propellant contained in the 7.92×57mm Mauser cartridge.\n\nThe M98 action features two large oval shaped gas relief holes on the bottom of the bolt, which when catastrophic failures like a primer, cartridge rupture or detonation occur relieve high pressure gases into the magazine, and a gas shield on the bolt sleeve. Military M98 systems feature a secondary gas relieve where gas is routed down the locking lug raceway to a thumb hole cutout exit on left side of receiver. Civilian M98 systems often lack the thumb hole cut out, as the ammunition feeding is generally simplified to single round feeding only. These safety features are designed to route escaping gas out of the bolt and eventual debris away from the operator's face.\n\nThe M98 bolt group can be easily removed from the receiver simply by rotating the safety lever to the 12 o'clock position and pulling out the bolt stop lever, located at the rear left wall of the receiver, and then operate the action and continue rearward bolt travel past the bolt stop. The metal disc inlay in the stock functions as a bolt disassembly tool.\n\nMany metal parts of the Gewehr 98 were blued, a process in which steel is partially protected against rust by a layer of magnetite (FeO). Such a thin black oxide layer provides minimal protection against rust or corrosion, unless also treated with a water-displacing oil to reduce wetting and galvanic corrosion. From 1905 until 1945 the German military used Ballistol intended for cleaning, lubricating, and protecting metallic, wooden and leather firearms parts.\n\nA three-position safety attached at the rear of the bolt which operating lever can be flicked from right (safety on, bolt locked) to middle (safety on, bolt can be opened for reloading), to left (ready to fire), but only when the rifle is cocked; otherwise, the safety will not move. The safety secures the firing pin. The safety catch lever is quite large, making it easy to operate, but posing a problem for mounting telescopic sights low above the receiver whilst retaining good operability of the safety catch lever.\n\nThe internal magazine of the M98 system consists of an integral box machined to match the cartridge for which the rifle was being chambered, with a detachable floorplate, that can hold up to 5 rifle cartridges. The German military M98 system internal magazine boxes feature an internal magazine length of to store maximal overall length 7.92×57mm Mauser cartridges without dimensional issues. The cartridges are stored in the magazine box in a staggered column at a stacking angle of 30 degrees, so viewed from the end, three cartridges touching each other form the points of an equilateral triangle. The magazine can be loaded with single rounds by pushing the cartridges into the receiver top opening or via stripper clips. Each stripper clip can hold 5 rounds to fill the magazine and is inserted into clip guides machined into the rear receiver bridge. After loading, the empty clip is ejected when the bolt is closed. For easier loading a crescent shaped thumb hole cutout is present at the left rear of the receiver top. The magazine can be unloaded by operating the bolt (the safety should, for safety reasons, be set to the middle position for this) or, in case of mechanical problems, by opening the magazine floorplate, which is flush with the stock, with the help of a cartridge tip.\nAlternatively cartridges can be loaded singly directly into the chamber, as is standard on military rifles of the period, since the extractor is spring-loaded and designed so the extractor claw \"pops\" over the rim of the cartridge on closing.\n\nThe Gewehr 98 had no magazine cut-off mechanism, which when engaged permits the feeding and extraction of single cartridges only while keeping the cartridges in the magazine in reserve. Like the M98 system Mauser magazine fed bolt-action systems were generally not manufactured with magazine cut-offs, the Ottoman Mauser Model 1893 variant being the exception.\n\nThough the production of the M98 system for the German military ceased at the end of World War II in 1945, the production of new Mauser M 98 and Mauser M 98 Magnum rifles for civil users has been resumed in 1999 by \"Mauser Jagdwaffen GmbH\" (Mauser Huntingweapons Ltd.), according to original drawings of 1936 and the respective Mauser patents. These rifles retail (2009) for approximately EUR 6,800 for the basic Mauser M 98 version, but the addition of (luxury) options can make these rifles much more expensive. Several other gun manufacturers and custom gun builders also currently produce new M98 system clones or M98 inspired bolt-action hunting/sporting rifles. Desirable features of the M98 system, like its controlled feeding, were carried over to a host of later bolt action designs. These designs feature technical alterations to simplify production and technical and ergonomic improvements.\n\nThe rifle had a two-stage trigger with considerable take up before the trigger engages the sear. This feature aids in preventing premature firing during stressful (combat) situations.\n\nOriginally the Gewehr 98 sight line had an open post type front sight, and a curved tangent-type rear sight with a V-shaped rear notch, known as the \"Lange Visier\" (Lange sight after its designer Lieutenant Colonel Lange). The rear sight was graduated for 1888 pattern M/88 cartridges from to in increments. The M/88 cartridge was loaded with full metal jacket projectiles of the round-nosed type.\n\nThe standard open iron sight aiming elements consisted of relatively coarse rugged aiming elements making the sightline suitable for rough handling and low light usage, but less suitable for aiming at small point targets. The tracks of the rear sight obstructed the view to the sides during aiming. The sights were designed with distant area fire targets like charging horseman units in mind, so the standard iron sight line could be calibrated for very long ranges. Military doctrine in the late 19th and early 20th centuries considered firing at distant area targets, where an officer would call out the range and the soldiers shot in volley, normal.\n\nGerman government driven efforts to improve the performance of the military M/88 ammunition and the service arms in which the M/88 was used resulted in the design by the \"Gewehr-Prüfungskommission\" and adaptation in 1903 of the dimensionally redesigned 7.92×57mm Mauser chambering. Besides the chambering, the bore (designated as \"S-bore\") was also dimensionally redesigned. The 1903 pattern 7.92×57mm Mauser \"S Patrone\" (S ball cartridge) was loaded with a lighter , pointed \"Spitzgeschoß\" (spitzer bullet) of diameter and more powerful double-base (based on nitrocellulose and nitroglycerin) smokeless powder. With the improved ballistic coefficient of the new spitzer bullet, the 1903 pattern cartridge had an improved maximum effective range and a flatter trajectory, and was therefore less critical of range estimation compared to the M/88 cartridge. With the introduction of the \"S Patrone\" the rear sight graduation was changed accordingly and could be regulated from to in increments.\n\nWhile the modified sight line for 1903 pattern 7.92×57mm Mauser \"S Patrone\" IS cartridges was calibrated for a minimum zero distance of and can result in hitting high when using the open post front sight and V-shaped rear notch at close range, the pillars formed by the tracks of the rear sight allow closer targets to be quickly bracketed between the \"goalposts\", a sighting method that automatically compensates for the high point of aim using the normal sighting method at sub- ranges.\n\nThe Gewehr 98 oil finished rifle stock features a semi-pistol grip. A top handguard was standard on all rifles and extended from the front of the rear sight base terminating just ahead of the bottom barrel band. A steel cross bolt was mounted to distribute the forces and hence the effects of recoil on the stock bedding, reducing the chance to split the stock. The stock featured a quick detachable sling swivel on the underside of the butt stock, a top swivel located underneath the bottom barrel band, and a parade hook mounted on the underside of the top H-style barrel band. The prewar stocks were produced from walnut wood and were aged for an average of three years to allow the wood to stabilize. Beginning in 1917, walnut shortages necessitated the use of beech wood. The late-war production beech stocks were less durable and heavier than the original walnut stocks.\n\nThe rifle was issued with a leather carrying sling. During the duration of World War I, due to a shortage of leather, slings were produced out of canvas.\n\nThe rifle was able to fire rifle grenades. Various attachable rifle grenade launcher models were designed during World War I.\n\nThe Gewehr 98 was designed to be used with a bayonet. For this the rifle had a H-style top barrel-band with a long bayonet lug. The long bearing surface on the Gewehr 98 bayonet lug eliminated the addition of a muzzle ring. The advantage of this solution lies in the fact that muzzle rings can interfere with barrel oscillation which can significantly impede the accuracy of a rifle. The rifle was originally issued with the \"Seitengewehr 98\" pattern bayonet. This épée style bayonet has a long quillback blade. By the end of 1905, this bayonet began to be replaced with the more robust and practical \"Seitengewehr 98/05\", with a blade. It was called the \"Butcher Blade\" by the Allies due to its distinctive shape, and was initially intended for artillerymen and engineers as a chopping tool as well as a weapon. Towards the end of World War I, the blade \"Seitengewehr 84/98\" was introduced as an economy measure and because the longer models were impractical in narrow trenches; this model became standard issue during the Weimar Republic and Third Reich. Serrated, saw-backed versions of the standard patterns intended to be used as tools were carried by German \"Pioniere\" (pioneers).\n\nIn the spring of 1915, it was decided to fit 15,000 Gewehr 98 rifles, selected for being exceptionally accurate during factory tests, with telescopic sights for sniper use, though the Gewehr 98 was not designed for use with aiming optics. The \"Scharfschützen-Gewehr 98\" (sniper rifle 98) was officially adapted in 1915 featuring for the period advanced 4× Görtz or Zeiss telescopic sights. These sights were mounted offset to the left to allow stripper clip loading of the rifle and the sights had a bullet drop compensation sight drum out to 1,000 m range in 100 m increments. The bolt handle had to be turned-down from its original straight design. In the stock, a recess had to be made to accommodate the turned-down bolt handle modification.\n\nThe wartime \"Scharfschützen-Gewehr 98\" program intended to regularize equipment issued for snipers but failed. The telescopic sights used consisted of 2.5×, 3× and 4× models, made by manufactures like Görtz, Gérard, Oige, Zeiss, Hensoldt, Voigtländer and various civilian models from manufacturers like Bock, Busch and Füss. Several different mountings produced by various manufacturers were used. Even with a turned-down bolt handle (unless it is low-profile as is common practice with modern hunting rifles), optics mounted low directly above the receiver will not leave enough space between the rifle and the telescopic sight body for unimpaired operation of the bolt or three-position safety catch lever. This ergonomic problem was solved by mounting the telescopic sight relatively high above the receiver. By the end of World War I, 18,421 Gewehr 98 rifles were converted and equipped with telescopic sights and issued to German snipers.\n\nMilitary carbines were developed for non-infantry formations, which needed to protect themselves in combat environments. In the German Army of the early 20th century the units armed with carbines included: Artillery, bicycle, cavalry, engineer, machine gun, military police, motor transport, airship, supply, and telephone and telegraph units.\n\nNot to be confused with the later Karabiner 98k or earlier Karabiner 98A (uppercase A), the Karabiner 98a (Kar 98a) was a shorter version of the Gewehr 98 originally made for cavalry and support unit use. The preceding model Karabiner 98A, with a considerably shorter barrel than the Gewehr 98 and at empty weight also lighter, was adopted in February 1902. During 1904 experiments with \"S Patrone\" rechambered Karabiner 98A carbines excessive recoil and muzzle flash problems arose, which lead to the suspension of production in 1905.\nThe \"Gewehr Prufungs Kommission\" (GPK) started developing a new carbine with a longer barrel and a different stock. By the mid-summer of 1907 the longer barrelled prototype carbines showed more acceptable recoil and muzzle blast behavior with the \"S Patrone\". In January 1908, the Karabiner Model 1898 AZ (Kar 98AZ) was accepted for service. The \"AZ\" stands for \"Aufpflanz-und-Zusammensetzvorrichtung\". The new features were a small diameter () receiver ring, tapered rather than stepped barrel contour, an L-shaped stacking rod attached to the stock near the muzzle, a turned-down bolt handle and recess in the stock in the same fashion as sniper Gewehr 98s. The \"A\" stood for \"with bayonet\", the \"Z\" stood for stacking pyramid, meaning carbine Model 1898 with bayonet attachment point and stacking rod device. At the end of World War I about 1.500.000 short rifles had been produced. In 1923, the AZ was dropped for 'a' as Germany sought to distinguish the model from the newer models 'b' and 'k'.\n\nDuring World War I, the Karabiner 98a was issued to light infantry, cavalry, mountain troops, and later to assault troops. It was liked because it was lighter and shorter than the Gewehr 98, and was thus better suited for use in trench assaults.\n\nThe Karabiner 98b was not technically another \"carbine\" variant, but rather was a rifle designated as a carbine to comply with the terms of the Treaty of Versailles which only allowed Germany to produce carbines. The Karabiner Model 1898b was introduced in 1923. The Karabiner 98b had a tangent rear sight as opposed to the original \"Lange\" ramp sight, a wider lower band with side sling attachment bar, a side butt attachment point for a sling, and a turned down bolt handle. It was otherwise merely a modified form of the Gewehr 98, from which the Karabiner 98k was derived.\n\nThe Gewehr 98 saw service primarily in World War I, as well as the Boxer rebellion and the Herero Wars in the preceding years. As with all contemporary bolt-action rifles, it was a powerful and accurate rifle with long range that was poorly suited for the close quarter fighting of trench warfare. The considerable length of the rifle and the minimum sight setting of 400 meters (far in excess of the typical range in trench battles) were particular handicaps.\n\nIts successor, the Karabiner 98k, would go on to be the standard rifle of the German infantry during World War II. Some Gewehr 98s also saw service in World War II, though many of these older rifles were converted to either 98b or 98k specifications.\n\nFor determining accuracy the German military fired a group of shots into a target and used statistics to calculate a hit probability. For this they drew a circle that disregards the hits on the outer part of the target and only count half of the hits (50% or R) on the inner part of the circle. This dramatically reduces the overall diameter of the groups. They then used both the vertical and horizontal measurements of the reduced shotgroup to measure accuracy. When the R results are doubled the hit probability increases to 93.7%.\n\nTo pass the German military accuracy standard a Gewehr 98 had to perform as follows.\n\nFor reference a 1 minute of arc (MOA) circle at has a diameter of , at equals 2.3 MOA, and at equals 4.6 MOA.\n\nThe circular error probable method employed by the Germans and other European militaries cannot be converted and is not comparable to the common US methods (groupsize of 5 or 10 successive shots fired at 100 yards) for determining accuracy and the British method of four out of five successive shots fired at 100 feet must hit a rectangle measuring 1 inch wide × 1.5 inches high<br>\nFor reference the acceptance accuracy requirements for various US service rifles at as well as the British Lee Enfield No.4 Mk.I rifle at .\n\nFor reference a 1 MOA circle at has a diameter of , at equals 2.9 MOA, and at equals 4.8 MOA\n\nThe accuracy standards of the other Gewehr 98 variants and most other service rifles used in World War I were similar.\n\nThe Mauser M 98 was a civilian version adapted for hunting and other sporting purposes of the Gewehr 98 service rifle. Vaguely similar to the latter rifle in appearance, the M 98 was offered in many different hunting chamberings, not like the original service rifle. The Mauser M 98 series offered several features and factory options, that are also typical for sporterised ex-service rifles, ranging from various technical departures from the basic Mauser service rifle it was based on to luxury wood grades, (gold) inlays, engravings and surface treatments like color case hardening. Some of the available options were originally developed and introduced by John Rigby & Co. on Rigby Mauser hunting rifles.\n\nJohn Rigby & Co. commissioned Mauser to develop the M 98 magnum action in the early 1900s. It was designed to function with the large sized cartridges normally used to hunt Big Five game and other dangerous game species. For this specialized type of hunting, where absolute reliability of the rifle under adverse conditions is very important, the controlled-feed M 98 system remains the standard by which other action designs are judged. In 1911 John Rigby & Co. introduced the .416 Rigby cartridge that due to its dimensions could only be used in the M 98 magnum action.\n\nAfter World War I, the Treaty of Versailles left Germany extremely constricted in terms of military power. Civilians were not allowed to have any use of standard military weapons or ammunition. Since the 7.92×57mm Mauser round was so stout and great for hunting, people did not want to give up on it, so a redesign of the cartridge was made for the civilian market resulting in the 8×60mm S featuring a new longer case. The 8×60mm S cartridge was kept under overall length to fit the cartridge in standard military M98 magazine boxes without any modification.\n\nThe also rare 8×64mm S cartridge offers a comparable rechambering option for Mauser Gewehr 98 and Karabiner 98k rifles sporting 8mm S-bores. Due to its larger case capacity the 8×64mm S chambering offers better ballistic performance than the 8×60mm S. Some custom rifles were made using Mauser 98's and rechambering them for the 9×57mm Mauser.\n\nSince the purpose for these rifles was hunting and sporting, the bolt handle was professionally bent down, gradually the bent bolt handle became the standard and replaced the older straight style (though that was of course not always the case). The standard military sights were replaced by a 100 m sight, along with a flip-up on the rear sight for 200 m. The military stocks were replaced by newer ones that did not include the extra length of stock needed for the bayonet lug.\n\nToday these sporter rifles are extremely rare and the 8×60mm S, 8×64mm S and 9×57mm Mauser cartridges are nearly obsolete, as only few mainstream ammunition manufacturers along with some other smaller companies continue to produce them. When correct ammunition is used in a converted rifle, an 8×60mm S, 8×64mm S or 9×57mm Mauser modified Gewehr 98 can be an extremely potent and inexpensive long-range big-game rifle.\n\nAlso, many Gewehr 98 rifles acquired as trophies by Allied forces during the war and brought to the US were converted to the 8mm-06 wildcat cartridge, a modification of the original 8×57mm IS chambering to 8×63mm S to accommodate the use of the plentiful .30-06 Springfield brass for reloading, with 8mm (.323 caliber) bullets. Such conversions are indistinguishable from unmodified rifle without careful examination, and can be quite dangerous if fired with the shorter 8×57mm ammunition, as the cartridge case will stretch to fit the elongated chamber and possibly rupture in the process, which causes a potentially highly dangerous high pressure propellant gas leakage. However, the Mauser M 98 action is designed specifically to direct gas away from the shooter in the event of a case rupture.\n\nIn the 21st century the US based company Rhineland Arms started to produce .45 ACP conversion kits for the Mauser action using M1911 pistol magazines.\n\nMany were converted to shotguns, typically in 12 and 16-gauge, as well as a few in 20-gauge. In making the conversion, both main locking lugs were typically removed. The magazine was altered to allow a single shell in reserve. Many authorities recommend against firing these guns, particularly with modern magnum shotshells.\n\nThe Weimar Republic, the successor state to the German Empire, implemented a program designed to update their remaining supplies of Gewehr 98 rifles for the Reichswehr in the years following World War I. Rifles allowed into service with the early Weimar security forces were stamped with a \"1920\" marking on their receiver ring. Further updates to Weimar-era Gewehr 98's often included the replacement of the Lange Visier rear sight with a standard Karabiner 98k-style rear sight. Many of the Gew 98 were also converted to the Kar 98b configuration, with a turned bolt handle, new tangeant leaf sight and a hole cut through the side of the stock to accommodate a Karabiner 98k-style side-mounted sling system, but some Karabiner 98b were also produced from new parts. Some of these rifles saw use in World War II but mostly in second line units because the shortened and improved Karabiner 98k was the standard issue rifle by that time. Gewehr 98 and Karabiner 98b were sometimes rebuilt to the Karabiner 98k configuration. The Gewehr 98 was in 1924 derived into the Mauser Standardmodell rifle.\n\nThe Germans captured German-made Yugoslav Model 1898 carbines and rifles and designated them \"Gewehr 298 (j)\" and \"Karabiner 492 (j)\". \"Volkssturm\" (\"People's Militia\") also made use of the Gewehr 98 and Kar 98a, out of all their mixed arsenal the Gewehr 98 was probably the best since it used standard 7.92×57mm IS rounds and a man trained on a Karabiner 98k could transition over to the Gewehr 98 easily since the actions of both rifles were the same.\n\nAfter 1945, some ex-German Karabiner 98b were also take into French Army service, the only modification being the use of the sling of the MAS-36 rifle.\n\nLarge numbers of Gewehr 98 rifles were also given to the Ottoman Empire both during and after World War I, including the majority of 1916 Waffenfabrik Oberndorf production. Many of these rifles were converted to the \"M38\" standard by the Republic of Turkey in the years before, during, and after World War II. Today these rifles are widely available in North America along with other Turkish Mausers. Careful observation is usually needed to tell an ex-Gewehr 98 apart from the myriad of other common M38-standard Mausers.\n\nAfter Czechoslovakia was founded in 1918, they bought 57 000 Gewehr 98 rifles from Netherlands (the so-called Netherlands block), which was acquired from disarmed German troops on Netherlands territory. After examination of Gewehr 98 Czechoslovakia developed own improved version known as Puška vz. 24 (Rifle mod. 24). That rifle, produced from 1924 to 1942, became the standard weapon of Czechoslovak forces before WWII and up to the 1960s. It was also commercially successful - among users were Romania, China, Bolivia, Turkey, Japan, Spain, Iran (also locally produced under licence), Ecuador, Brasil, Lithuania, Yugoslavia; after WWII also Israel, North Vietnam and many others).\n\nThe rifle saw some usage in the Spanish Civil War, mostly in the hands of Generalissimo Franco's Nationalists and German volunteer legions. Most of these rifles were bought and exported to the United States as cheap sporting rifles in the 1960s by Interarmco.\n\nDuring the formation of the state of Israel in the aftermath of World War II, the Haganah acquired substantial numbers of Karabiner 98k rifles from any European sources they could find. Some of these rifles were converted Gewehr 98 rifles, which aside from the Imperial German markings are identical to all other Israeli Mausers. Like other Israeli Mausers, most of these rifles were rebarreled for 7.62×51mm NATO after that round was adopted as the Israeli standard in 1958.\n\nIn 1998 the Mauser works at Oberndorf produced the Jubiläum 98 (Anniversary 98) model, a fully functioning replica of the original Gewehr 98, to celebrate the rifle's centenary year. 1998 rifles were produced.\n\nMany non-German military service rifles and carbines were derived from and/or based on the Mauser M98 bolt-action system. Some of these were German-made by various contractors other than Mauser:\n\nFollowing the collapse of the German Empire after World War I, many countries that were using Mauser models chose to develop, assemble, or modify their own rifle designs that were derived from and/or based on the Mauser M98 bolt-action:\n\nThe Winchester Model 54 and later the popular Winchester Model 70 are both based on the Mauser style action.\n\nAfter World War II the Mauser M98 bolt-action system was used by Yugoslavia to design the Zastava M48 and Spain to design the FR8.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2023431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2023431", "title": "Buckskin (leather)", "text": "Buckskin (leather)\n\nBuckskin is the soft, pliable, porous preserved hide of an animal – usually deer – tanned in the same way as deerskin clothing worn by Native Americans. Some leather sold as \"buckskin\" may now be sheepskin tanned with modern chromate tanning chemicals and dyed to resemble real buckskin. \n\nBuckskin is preserved with a dressing of lubricant, physically manipulated to make it soft and pliable, and usually smoked with woodsmoke. Smoking gives buckskin its typical dark honey color, and is highly recommended. Smoking prevents the tanned hide from becoming stiff if it gets wet, and deters insects from eating it as well. Unsmoked buckskin is lighter, even white, in color. \n\nClothing made of buckskin is referred to as buckskins.\n"}
{"id": "2023436", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2023436", "title": "Tomas Scheckter", "text": "Tomas Scheckter\n\nTomas Scheckter (born 21 September 1980) is a South African former racing driver.\n\nScheckter was born in Monte Carlo to 1979 Formula One World Champion Jody Scheckter and his first wife Pamela. Scheckter started racing karts in South Africa at the age of 11 and it did not take long for the young driver to reach the podium. He had his first taste of a major championship as a teenager when he captured the South African Kart Championship in 1995. In 1996 he ventured on to the main circuit in the South African Formula Vee series and soon after he was in the South African Formula Ford Series where he posted two wins.\n\nHe had proven his speed in South African motorsports and was then off to Europe the following year where he entered the British Formula Vauxhall Junior series where he raced against the likes of Antônio Pizzonia and Takuma Sato. Scheckter earned third in the championship with one victory and one pole. He was also named series Rookie of the Year.\n\nIn 1999, Scheckter won the Formula Opel Euroseries championship with a record eight victories and eight poles, and in the process broke all the winning records previously set by Mika Häkkinen, Rubens Barrichello, and David Coulthard. That success landed him a drive that same year in the last two races of the Formula Nissan championship which Fernando Alonso had dominated that whole season. Even though Scheckter was with a new team for this brief stint in Formula Nissan, he captured a win, two poles and a second-place position.\n\nScheckter moved on to the Formula 3 Series in 2000, and in his rookie year, he was the runner-up in the British Formula 3 Championship with two victories and two pole positions, while contending again with drivers such as Takuma Sato, Antônio Pizzonia and Narain Karthikeyan. He also had time to race in the prestigious Marlboro Masters F3 race at Zandvoort where he took the third podium position. To complete his year, he competed in the final four races of the FIA Formula 3000 Championship, finishing second at Hockenheim behind future IRL teammate Tomáš Enge. He also raced in the Open Telefónica by Nissan, finishing as championship runner-up.\n\nScheckter was signed as a test/reserve driver by Jaguar for the 2001 Formula One season, but was soon let go after being found \"kerb crawling.\"\n\nScheckter was signed to drive for Eddie Cheever's Red Bull Cheever Racing in the IndyCar Series for the 2002 season. He was the Indianapolis 500 co-Rookie of the year (with 4th placed Alex Barron) after leading 85 laps of the race. However, Cheever soon grew tired of Scheckter's frequent crashes, and looked to replace him with Buddy Rice. At Michigan International Speedway, Cheever was forced to race Scheckter due to contractual obligations, but gave Rice the best equipment and crew. In the 2002 Michigan Indy 400, Scheckter won by 1.7 seconds over Rice for his first IRL win, while team owner Cheever crashed out. However, he was soon gone from Cheever Racing.\n\nIn 2003, he moved to Target Ganassi Racing with mixed results, often being criticized for his inconsistency and frequency of crashing, finishing well behind title winning teammate Scott Dixon. In 2004 he moved to Panther Racing to replace double champion Sam Hornish, Jr.. In 2004 and 2005, Scheckter and Panther were the dominant Chevrolet powered team, greatly outpacing other teams powered by what many considered the weakest engine in the series. Scheckter broke through a horrendous string of bad luck, defeating Hornish to win the Bombardier Learjet 500 at Texas Motor Speedway in June 2005 for his second career victory.\n\nIn mid-2005, Scheckter was announced as one of the drivers for A1 Team South Africa in the inaugural A1 Grand Prix series. He raced in the rounds at EuroSpeedway Lausitz and Estoril. In 2006, Scheckter drove for Tony George and Patrick Dempsey's Vision Racing alongside teammate Ed Carpenter and finished 10th in points. In 2007, Scheckter again raced for Vision Racing sponsored by Joost. The South African was one of the few drivers that year to challenge the Team Penske, Andretti Green Racing and Target Chip Ganassi Racing drivers on a regular basis during races, on occasion leading races. He ultimately finished 10th in points for the second season in a row with a best finish of fifth.\n\nFor the 2008 season, Scheckter was scheduled to race for Luczo Dragon Racing in three races: Kansas, Indianapolis, and Infineon. Despite not finishing at Kansas or Indy, Scheckter's runs gave the team additional race time at Texas, Detroit, and Chicagoland. Scheckter failed to return any good results in the additional races despite qualifying well. He did not return to the team in 2009, as it became a full-time team with 2008 Indy Lights champion Raphael Matos. Scheckter was reported to be joining Beck Motorsports, now renamed Team 3G, starting at the 2009 Long Beach race, but the deal never materialized. Scheckter personally secured sponsorship from MonaVie which he shopped to a number of teams, ultimately signing with Dale Coyne Racing for a second week program. He qualified 26th and finished 12th. Later in the 2009 season he returned with the MonaVie sponsorship with Dreyer & Reinbold Racing sharing the #23 car with Milka Duno, who brought her own sponsorship, as well as driving a third car, the #43, in select races.\n\nIn 2010, Scheckter once again brought Mona-Vie to Dreyer & Reinbold Racing to drive the #23 car in the Indianapolis 500. Scheckter had a great race, and was in the top for the majority of the race. In the last 20 laps a fuel mileage problem forced Scheckter to conserve fuel and he dropped back to finish 12th. Scheckter's teammate Mike Conway suffered a leg injury in a terrible crash at the Indianapolis 500 and Scheckter was hired to fill in for Conway at Texas and Iowa finished 15th and 19th at each. Later in the year he was hired to drive for Conquest Racing at Chicago and Kentucky. Scheckter finished 28th at Chicago, but after having a surprisingly quick time in practice and qualifying he was accidentally hit from behind by Alex Lloyd in the first 10 laps and made contact with the wall that ended his day. At Kentucky Scheckter struggled getting the car up to speed and finished 14th.\n\nFor 2011, Scheckter joined KV-SH Racing and drive the #07 Team Redline Extreme car in the Indianapolis 500. For the season's final race in Las Vegas, Scheckter drove the #57 car for Sarah Fisher Racing with Angie's List as the primary sponsor, but the race was red flagged due to a multicar pile up early in the race in which Dan Wheldon was killed.\n\nHe is the son of Formula One World Champion Jody Scheckter and the nephew of racer Ian Scheckter. He also has an older brother named Toby, and a younger brother Hugo, who often updates Tomas's fans through his Twitter page.\n\nIn April 2020, Scheckter announced that he had suffered multiple strokes and required a heart operation at the Mayo Clinic. Scheckter currently resides in the United Kingdom.\n\nScheckter started on the fourth row of the Indy 500 his first seven races until 2009, when he qualified 26th.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2023440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2023440", "title": "FR-2", "text": "FR-2\n\nFR-2 (Flame Resistant 2) is a NEMA designation for synthetic resin bonded paper, a composite material made of paper impregnated with a plasticized phenol formaldehyde resin, used in the manufacture of printed circuit boards. Its main properties are similar to NEMA grade XXXP (MIL-P-3115) material, and can be substituted for the latter in many applications.\n\nFR-2 sheet with copper foil lamination on one or both sides is widely used to build low-end consumer electronic equipment. While its electrical and mechanical properties are inferior to those of epoxy-bonded fiberglass, FR-4, it is significantly cheaper. It is not suitable for devices installed in vehicles, as continuous vibration can make cracks propagate, causing hairline fractures in copper circuit traces. Without copper foil lamination, FR-2 is sometimes used for simple structural shapes and electrical insulation.\n\nFR-2 can be machined by drilling, sawing, milling and hot punching. Cold punching and shearing are not recommended, as they leave a ragged edge and tend to cause cracking. Tools made of high-speed steel can be used, although tungsten carbide tooling is preferred for high volume production.\n\nAdequate ventilation or respiration protection are mandatory during high-speed machining, as it gives off toxic vapors.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2023448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2023448", "title": "Otford railway station, New South Wales", "text": "Otford railway station, New South Wales\n\nOtford railway station is located on the South Coast railway line in New South Wales, Australia. It serves the village of Otford opening on 3 October 1888. Two refuge sidings existed north of the station until removed in the 1980s.\n\nOtford has two side platforms and is serviced by NSW TrainLink South Coast line services travelling between Waterfall and Port Kembla. Some peak hour and late night services operate to Sydney Central, Bondi Junction and Kiama.\n\n"}
{"id": "2023450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2023450", "title": "Tan Swie Hian", "text": "Tan Swie Hian\n\nTan Swie Hian () is a Singaporean multidisciplinary artist known for his contemporary Chinese calligraphy, chinese poetry and contemporary art sculptures found in Singapore and many parts of the world.\n\nBorn in Indonesia, Tan migrated to Singapore circa 1946. He grew up with a fluency in Chinese and Malay language, and went on to study English and French at the Nanyang University. He began his career life as press attaché for the French Embassy in Singapore, after graduating with a degree in English literature from the University. While working as an attaché he continued pursuing his passion for art. His first foray into the Singapore arts scene was with his first collection of poetry writing titled \"The Giant\" in 1968 and held his first art exhibition at the National Library on Stamford Road in 1973. He also converted to his faith to Buddhism in that year; his newfound spiritual experience outweighed his passion for the arts that made him give up painting for the next four years. It was only when the-then French Embassy cultural attaché Michel Deverge threatened to end their friendship if he didn't pursue his art again, that Tan resume painting. Deverge went on to organize a successful exhibition of Tan's new creations at the Gauguin Museum in Tahiti. After 24 years with the Embassy Tan left his position to pursue art full-time.\n\nSince his first poetry collection \"The Giant\" in 1968, Tan went on to publish 35 publications of poetry, essays and stories. In 1978, Tan was conferred the Chavalier de I'Ordre des Arts et Lettres by French Government for his initiatory Chinese translations of works by Beckett and Romanian writer Marin Sorescu. In 1987, he was awarded the Cultural Medallion in Singapore. In 1998, he won the Marin Sorescu International Poetry Prize in Romania.\n\nTan has been recognised as Singapore's most expensive artist after he sold his oil-and-acrylic painting, \"When the Moon is Orbed\", for approximately S$3.7m at an auction in Beijing in 2012.\n\nIn October 2014, Tan completed a painting of former Prime Minister Lee Kuan Yew and his late wife Kwa Geok Choo entitled \"A Couple\". The painting, which took Tan five years to complete, was partially damaged by a fire in 2013. It depicts Lee and Kwa in their youth, is based on a 1946 black-and-white photograph of the couple in Cambridge University, and incorporates in its background Tan's poem written in memory of Kwa. Tan said, \"I've always felt [Madam Kwa] was a great woman who, despite her intelligence and capability, was also a humble and dedicated wife.\" \"A Couple\" was purchased by art collector Wu Hsioh Kwang.\n\nIn 2012, fellow Cultural Medallion recipient Yeng Pway Ngon, the Chinese-language novelist, was ordered to pay $10,000 in damages and $20,000 in costs to Tan. Tan had accused Yeng of libelling him in a 2005 letter which the latter had sent to \"The Straits Times\" and the National Arts Council.\n\n"}
{"id": "2023451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2023451", "title": "Otford, New South Wales", "text": "Otford, New South Wales\n\nOtford is a former village, now satellite housing in the Otford Valley just 60 km to the south of the Sydney metropolitan area and north of the Illawarra and Wollongong in New South Wales, Australia. Otford is within the local government area of Wollongong City Council.\n\nOtford is situated in the Otford Valley, north of Undola Ridge, Stanwell Park and Stanwell Tops. To the east of the valley is the coastal ridge and small community of Bulgo, also the name of a hill in the area and the former name of Otford. To the west, on the plateau, is the township of Helensburgh. To the north is the locality of Lilyvale and the Royal National Park.\n\nThe town is on the southern tip of the Royal National Park and features many native plants in its bushland like the Dendrobium Lilly. The trees of the bushland are mostly of the dry Eucalypt variety but the valley slopes support tall open Eucalypt forest and rainforest along the creek and in gullies.\n\nThe landscape is mostly hillside, and the Hacking River runs through the valley to the north. The highest points around Otford reach over 250 metres above sea level, at Bulgo and Otford Hills. The Bulgo Range of coastal hill headland is the northern extension of the Illawarra escarpment as it gradually turns into coastal cliffs.\n\nA local attraction is the Otford Valley riding farm, stables, horse agistment and equestrian centre. Otford's coastal ridge is home to the Otford Lookout on Lawrence Hargrave Drive which has similar views south over the Illawarra as does its southern neighbour Bald Hill.\n\nOtford was first known as Bulgo. The name Bulgo was first marked on Robert Dixon's 'Map of the Colony of New South Wales' in 1842 and the name was in use for some time after. When the construction of the Illawarra (now officially South Coast Line) line was taking place a village formed in 1885, with four houses. The name was changed to Otford in May 1885. During that year the village grew and the first school was built, as well as a post office. In 1887 a hotel was present, along with a butchers store, bakers shop, tailor, jeweller and general store. Otford also had a billiard room and skittle alley. After construction of the railway had finished the village went into decline and the school was closed in 1893. Trains on the line stopped at Otford to take in water and a small railway and sawmill centre developed at the entrance to the tunnel.\n\nA timber mill at Karingal, Lilyvale, in the north of the Otford valley was established by Thomas James and his three brothers in 1875. James Forster built a mill to the south in 1899. Lilyvale Mushrooms Pty. Ltd began in 1952 in a small tunnel at Lilyvale and in 1959 two tunnels were in operation.\n\nThe current railway tunnel between Otford and Stanwell Park was made in 1917 after annoyances in the old one such as buildup of smoke in the unventilated route and the steep descent. The railway achievements of the area are known as engineering feats, and the views are equally well known. The abandoned, original railway tunnel between Otford and Stanwell Park was used for a mushroom farm but is now disused.\n\nThe village shops and the post office all closed. A café, with limited trading hours, remains on Lady Wakehurst Drive where it serves the tourist trade.\n\nOtford is part of the old Parish of Bulgo and was within the area of Bulli Shire Council which was incorporated into Wollongong City Council.\n\nOtford has a number of heritage-listed sites, including:\n\nIn the 2016 Census, there were 369 people in Otford. 79.8% of people were born in Australia and 83.3% of people spoke only English at home. \nThe most common response for religion was No Religion at 51.1%.\n\nOtford has few remaining services but retains a public primary school, railway station on the NSW TrainLink South Coast Line, a volunteer Rural Fire Brigade and a pie shop that also serves as tax agent. Otford railway station, once had award-winning gardens and picturesque buildings but is now a stark concrete and brick commuter stop. The railway station is used by bushwalkers accessing the Royal National Park.\n\nOne of the current most important aspects of Otford is its Bushfire Brigade. All members are village based volunteers who protect the town and district from the severe bushfires that threaten the town. It is an integral aspect of the local community. The local school is the other community focus of this small family and community oriented Australian village. The school has been open again for many years.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2023458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2023458", "title": "University of Alabama School of Law", "text": "University of Alabama School of Law\n\nThe University of Alabama School of Law, ranked 31st by U.S. News, (formerly known as the Hugh F. Culverhouse Jr. School of Law at The University of Alabama) located in Tuscaloosa, Alabama is a nationally ranked top-tier law school and the only public law school in the state. It is one of five law schools in the state, and one of three that are ABA accredited. According to Alabama's official 2017 ABA-required disclosures, 84% of the Class of 2017 obtained full-time, long-term, JD-required employment nine months after graduation. An additional 8.4% of the Class of 2017 obtained JD-advantage employment.\n\nApproximately 383 JD students attended Alabama Law during school year 2018–2019. 62 undergraduate institutions and 25 states are represented among the class of 2021, and the student-faculty ratio is 6.3 to 1.\n\nAlabama Law offers the Juris Doctor (J.D.) degree, as well as an International LL.M., an LL.M. in Taxation, and an LL.M. in Business Transactions. In conjunction with the Manderson Graduate School of Business, the law school also offers a four-year joint J.D./M.B.A. program. Students may also pursue a number of graduate degrees through established dual enrollment programs for M.A. or Ph.D. in Political Science, M.P.A., Ph.D. in Economics, or LL.M. in Taxation. Certificates in Public Interest Law, Governmental Affairs, and International and Comparative Law are also available.\n\nAdmissions have been increasingly selective. The class of 2021 has a median LSAT score of 164 and median undergraduate GPA of 3.88. The 75th and 25th percentile for these metrics are 165 and 3.95, and 157 and 3.42, respectively.\n\nAlabama Law guarantees that every interested student has the opportunity to participate in at least one law clinic before graduating. It is one of the few law schools in the country to make this guarantee.\n\nIn 2007 Jarvis & Coleman ranked the \"Alabama Law Review\" (ALR) 36th \"on the basis of the prominence of their lead article authors.\"<ref name=\"Jarvis/Coleman Rankings\"></ref> This represents an incredible 63 position improvement from the rankings of ten years prior. For 2015–2016, ExpressO, UC Berkeley's manuscript submission service, ranked the ALR at 10th in terms of \"number of manuscripts received.\" In 2015 Washington and Lee's methods rank ALR at 46th in both the number of citations from other journals and the combined score. These show an improvement of 10 and 26 positions, respectively, over the preceding 5 years.\n\nApproximately 40% of students graduate with journal experience. This is a slightly lower percentage than many of Alabama's peer schools, but nonetheless above the national average.\n\nAccording to Alabama's official 2017 ABA-required disclosures, 83.2% of the Class of 2016 obtained full-time, long-term, bar passage required employment within nine months after graduation. Alabama's Law School Transparency under-employment score for 2017 is 7.6%, indicating the percentage of the Class of 2017 who were unemployed, pursuing an additional degree, or working in a non-professional, short-term, or part-time job nine months after graduation.\n\nTuition and fees at the University of Alabama School of Law for the 2018–2019 academic year total $23,920 for residents and $42,180 for nonresidents. 69.2% of students received discounts during the 2017–2018 school year; the remaining 30.8% paid full price. Law School Transparency estimated debt-financed cost of attendance for three years at full price to be $157,785 for residents and $231,042 for nonresidents.\n\n"}
{"id": "2023462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2023462", "title": "Brittny Gastineau", "text": "Brittny Gastineau\n\nBrittny Gastineau (born November 6, 1982) is an American model, socialite, and reality television personality.\n\nGastineau was born in New York City. She is the daughter of Lisa Gastineau and former New York Jets defensive end Mark Gastineau. During the divorce proceedings between her parents she lived with her grandmother and attended public school at Clarkstown High School North in New City, New York. After graduating from high school she attended the University of Alabama before returning to New York City to model.\n\nAfter moving back to Manhattan Gastineau signed with the Elite Model Management, and became a model as part of their celebrity division. Within weeks of signing with the agency, she appeared in a spread for \"Stuff\" magazine. She walked runways for Anne Bowen and Anna Sui during NYC fashion week in 2005, and signed an endorsement deal with L'Oréal Paris, which led to a European advertising campaign. During that time, she became the face of casual wear designer Ed Hardy. Later, Gastineau appeared on the cover of \"Steppin' Out\", \"Hamptons\" and \"Lucire\" magazines. In 2005, she appeared on \"Maxim\" magazine's Hot 100 list, ranking at number 60.\n\nIn 2006, she walked the runway for New York Fashion Week, for designer, Yumi Katsura, and the modelled for the designer's bridal collection later that year.\n\nHer successful modeling career included contracts with MAC cosmetics, as well as occasional runway shows for boutiques such as Heatherette run by Traver Rains and Richie Rich. She also shared a high-end accessory line with her mother, \"Tres Glam\", and in 2007, they added a costume jewelry line as well.\n\nGastineau continues to successfully pursue modelling, which includes occasional magazine layouts. She has appeared on the cover of \"Social Life\" magazine, and appearances in magazines such as \"L.A. Confidential\" and \"Life and Style\". In 2008 at Fashion Week in NYC, she walked the runway for designer Tamara Pogosian, and was featured in a campaign for Ferrari California in Beverly Hills. She made small appearance in the movie Bruno where she was duped by the Sacha Cohen character into believing she was on a TV show when in fact, she was the victim of Cohen's role play.\n\nCurrently, Gastineau makes occasional appearances as Kim Kardashians' best friend on the hit E! show, \"Keeping Up With The Kardashians\".\n\nIn 2004, Gastineau landed a development deal with the E! Network and began production on a reality series which would also feature her mother Lisa Gastineau, the ex-wife of NFL defensive end Mark Gastineau.\n\nIn 2005 the series, eventually dubbed \"T Girls\", premiered on February 15 and became a modest hit for The E! Network. The first season chronicled mother and daughter's quest for love in New York City as well as Brittny's formal, successful introduction into the world of modeling. On January 31, 2006, the series' first complete season was released on Region 1 DVD in the United States.\n\nIn between seasons of \"The Gastineau Girls\", Gastineau appeared on another E! Network reality show, \"\", which observed the activities of spoiled celebrity children on a Colorado cattle ranch. The show was produced by Joe Simpson, father of Jessica and Ashlee Simpson. Gastineau later appeared on the NBC game show, \"Identity\", and guest hosted episodes of \"The View\" and Isaac Mizrahi's talk show. She appeared on Lifetime's \"Top This Party\", E!'s \"Keeping Up with the Kardashians\" and MTV's popular programs \"The Hills\" and \"Cribs\". She also hosted segments for Fuse TV and Spike TV.\n\nIn 2009, Gastineau appeared in a small segment of the movie \"Brüno\" where she is asked to judge whether Jamie Lynn Spears should keep or \"abort\" her unborn baby. Gastineau said to \"abort it\". Gastineau said she was 'joking around' and, in a later interview, said she was aware of the satirical nature of her appearance, saying: \"I was just playing along. Anyone who is going to see Bruno knows it's a comedy, and I was totally joking around! I was not serious.\" She says she's seen the movie and \"thought it was amazing.\" Sacha Baron Cohen, she adds, \"is a genius.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2023466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2023466", "title": "Horace Rawlins", "text": "Horace Rawlins\n\nHorace Thomas Rawlins (5 August 1874 – 22 January 1935) was an English professional golfer who won the first U.S. Open Championship in 1895.\n\nRawlins was born at Shanklin on the Isle of Wight, England, the son of Thomas Horatio and Sarah Maria Rawlins. Thomas Horatio Rawlins had married Sarah Maria Brown in Bombay in 1871.\n\nRawlins had an older sister and two younger brothers; all of whom were born in India. Sarah was widowed by the time of the 1891 census and returned to the Isle of Wight, living in Brading. In 1891 Horace and his younger brother Harry are described as golf caddies. The Royal Isle of Wight Golf Club was situated nearby.\n\nRawlins was one of a number of near-contemporaries who learnt their golf at the now-defunct Royal Isle of Wight Golf Club and went on to become successful professional golfers. The group included Rowland Jones, the cousins Alfred and Walter Toogood, as well as his brother, Harry Rawlins.\n\nRawlins became the club professional at the Mid-Herts Golf Club when it opened in 1893. He played in a professional event at Stanmore Golf Club in June 1894 but finished well out of the prizes. Rawlins later moved to Raynes Park.\n\nIn early 1895 Rawlins travelled to the United States to take up a position at Newport Country Club in Newport, Rhode Island. The club hosted the inaugural U.S. Open on 4 October 1895, and he was one of 11 players to participate. Playing in just his third tournament, Rawlins shocked the more established Willie Dunn, winning the title by two strokes over 36 holes. The first U.S. Open was a one-day event played immediately after the three-day U.S. Amateur, which received much more attention at the time. Rawlins won $150 plus a $50 gold medal and the Open Championship Cup, which went to his club.\n\nRawlins returned to England in late 1895 and took a position at Crowborough Beacon under the professional Arthur Jackson for the winter. A match was arranged between Rawlins and James Braid on 7 March 1896 at Crowborough, Braid winning 5&3. Rawlins returned to America soon afterwards, moving to Sadaquada Golf Club near Utica, New York. Rawlins finished second in the 1896 U.S. Open, played on 18 July at Shinnecock Hills Golf Club.\n\nRawlins was also involved in golf course design, having in 1910 done some work on The Springhaven Club course in Wallingford, Pennsylvania, which was originally laid out by Ida Dixon in 1904.\n\nAfter settling permanently in England in 1913 Rawlins seems to have played little golf. His only known appearance was as an unattached professional in the 1919 \"Victory\" tournament of the Southern Section of the PGA. Played at Walton Heath on 14 May, Rawlins scored 88 and 89 and finished well down the field.\n\nRawlins married Cicely Margaret Wright at St Saviour, Shanklin in early 1911. Cicely had been born in Great Chesterford, Essex in 1878. Horace and Cicely travelled to the United States in April 1911 and April 1912 and spent the summer there. Their first child, Robert Cecil, was born in England in 1913, followed by Clifford Horace in 1916 and there is no indication that Rawlins returned to the United States after 1912.\n\nRawlins' mother, Sarah Maria, died in Wealdstone on 7 June 1914 aged 73 at which time Rawlins was described as a \"draper\".\n\nRawlins died on 22 January 1935 in a nursing home in Reading, Berkshire. He had been living in Barkham near Wokingham and was buried there at the parish church of St. James. His gravestone reads \"In ever loving memory of Horace Thomas Rawlins who passed peacefully away January 22nd 1935 aged 60 years Thy will be done\". Cicely died in early 1964 in Parkstone, Dorset, aged 85.\n\n\"Note: Rawlins only played in the U.S. Open.\n\nCUT = missed the half-way cut<br>\n\"T\" indicates a tie for a place\n\n"}
{"id": "2023473", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2023473", "title": "Karl Kesel", "text": "Karl Kesel\n\nKarl Kesel (born January 7, 1959, Victor, New York) is an American comics writer and inker whose works have primarily been under contract for DC Comics. He is a member of Periscope Studio and is best known for his collaborations with fellow artist Tom Grummett on \"The Adventures of Superman\", \"Superboy\", and \"Section Zero\".\n\nAfter a friend at college complimented his inking, Karl Kesel began submitting his portfolio to Marvel Comics and DC Comics. Kesel's first work for DC Comics appeared in \"New Talent Showcase\" #4 (April 1984). He soon became the inker on \"Tales of the Legion of Super-Heroes\" — so soon, in fact, that he suspected that he was assigned \"New Talent Showcase\" #8 as a test run to see how well he jelled with \"Tales of the Legion\" penciller Terry Shoemaker. Kesel was discouraged that inks which looked smooth and clear on his original pages appeared clunky in the printed comics, and with some guidance from Dick Giordano he studied how to draw in a way that would appear better on the printed page. Kesel worked on the lighthearted \"'Mazing Man\" series, as well as providing inks over the pencils of George Pérez on \"History of the DC Universe\" and John Byrne on \"Legends\" and \"Superman\" vol. 2. With his then-wife Barbara Kesel, he co-wrote a \"Hawk and Dove\" miniseries in 1988 which was drawn by Rob Liefeld. Kesel and artist Tom Grummett are the creators of the modern Superboy character, Kon-El, who debuted in the \"Reign of the Supermen\" story arc, starting from \"The Adventures of Superman\" #500 (June 1993). An ongoing \"Superboy\" series was launched by Kesel and Grummett in February 1994. In 1996, Kesel and artist Stuart Immonen produced \"The Final Night\" limited series. That same year, Kesel was one of the many creators who contributed to the \"\" one-shot wherein the title character married Lois Lane. Kesel wrote the \"Batman and Superman: World's Finest\" ten-issue limited series (April 1999–Jan. 2000) which explored the Post-Crisis history of the two with each of the ten issues taking place one year after the other. He and artist Terry Dodson launched a \"Harley Quinn\" ongoing series in December 2000.\n\nKesel's first work for Marvel Comics was inking a Vision story in \"Avengers Spotlight\" #23 (Oct. 1989). He inked Mark Bagley's cover art for the Japan-exclusive Super Famicom video game \"\" in 1995. Kesel wrote \"Daredevil\" issues #353–364 (June 1996 – May 1997) and in 2002 wrote the story, \"Remembrance of Things Past\" in which it was revealed that Ben Grimm, the Thing of the Fantastic Four, is Jewish. Kesel wrote and drew a \"lost\" \"Captain America\" comic strip from the 1940s which was published on Marvel Digital Comics Unlimited. In 2011, he scripted a Hulk and the Human Torch story which had been plotted by Jack C. Harris and drawn by Steve Ditko in the 1980s. It was published by Marvel as \"Incredible Hulk and the Human Torch: From the Marvel Vault\" #1 (August 2011).\n\nKesel worked with comic book illustrator Brandon McKinney on issues #6 and #13 of the comic series \"Aliens: Space Marines\" published by Dark Horse Comics, which accompanied alien figures in the first line of Alien figures released by Kenner in 1992.\n\nIn 2000, Kesel and his former \"Superboy\" collaborator Tom Grummett created \"Section Zero\" as part of the Gorilla Comics imprint at Image Comics. Gorilla Comics was intended to be a creator owned company financed by a comics related website, eHero.com. The website proved to be a financial failure, leaving the creators to personally finance their own books. Along with the other Gorilla Comics creators, Kesel and Grummett attempted to continue the series they started, but these efforts proved to be unsuccessful. In January 2012, Kesel announced that he and Grummett would be relaunching \"Section Zero\" as a webcomic on the Mad Genius Comics website. The previously published stories were posted on the site and new material was added as it was completed. A Kickstarter campaign in 2017 will allow Kesel and Grummett to finish the story.\n\nFor several years, he was married to fellow comics writer Barbara Kesel (née Randall), with whom he wrote \"Hawk and Dove\"; they have since divorced.\n\nKesel has been nominated for a number of Eisner Awards, \"Best Inker\" (1991) and (1992) and \"Best Cover Artist\" (1992).\n\nIn 2016, he was nominated for Inkwell Awards Favorite Inker.\n\nComics work (as writer unless noted) includes:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2023478", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2023478", "title": "Crystal Hunt", "text": "Crystal Hunt\n\nCrystal Clarese Hunt (born February 5, 1985 in Clearwater, Florida) is an American actress and producer. She is best known for playing Lizzie Spaulding (2003–06) on \"Guiding Light\". She also played Stacy Morasco (2009–10) on \"One Life to Live\".\n\nHunt started her career by participating in pageants at 2 years old; her pageant talent was acting. Hunt has starred in many commercials, including one for The Walt Disney Company's 25th anniversary celebration and an anti-drug advertisement with *NSYNC. She is best known for her role as Lizzie Spaulding, the troubled daughter of the long-suffering couple Philip and Beth Raines, on the CBS soap opera \"Guiding Light\", which she played from 2003 to 2006. She received a Daytime Emmy Award nomination in 2005 for Outstanding Younger Actress in a Drama Series for the role.\n\nHunt appeared in the 2005 film \"The Derby Stallion\", and appeared in the 2007 Universal Pictures film \"Sydney White\" as Demetria \"Dinky\" Rosemead Hodgekiss. She joined ABC's \"One Life to Live\" in February 2009, playing Stacy Morasco. She left the show on February 16, 2010. She returned to the show as the ghostly Stacy in March 2010, and in Clint Buchanan's vision of Hell in January 2012.\n\nHunt owned My Pets Dream Boutique, a high-end pet boutique in her hometown of Clearwater, Florida. In 2014, she produced her first feature film \"Talbot County\" with longtime friend and fellow actress, Dania Ramirez.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2023480", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2023480", "title": "Diary (TV series)", "text": "Diary (TV series)\n\nDiary is an American documentary television series that premiered February 16, 2001, on MTV.\n\nThe show's opening titles begin with the slogan \"You think you know ... but you have no idea.\"\n\nThe series follows celebrities through their everyday lives. Some of the celebrities featured include Jay-Z, Aaliyah, Jennifer Lopez, Alicia Keys, Beyoncé Knowles, Kelly Rowland, Marilyn Manson, Bow Wow, Avril Lavigne, Brandy, Britney Spears, Christina Aguilera, Chyna, Kelly Clarkson, Brittany Murphy, N.E.R.D, OutKast, Destiny's Child, Lindsay Lohan, Timbaland, Blink-182, Green Day, Sum 41, Papa Roach, Hilary Duff, Korn, Jack Black, Chris Rock, Justin Timberlake, Backstreet Boys, Nas and Enrique Iglesias.\n\nIn 2005/2006 MTV Canada produced a series of Canadian made \"Diary\" episodes. Canadians featured include Tom Green, Russell Peters, Bedouin Soundclash, Adam Beach, Lauren Collins, Hedley, Amanda Crew, Keshia Chante, Daniel Negreanu, Nelly Furtado, K'Naan, Billy Talent, Simple Plan and Justin Bieber.\n\nThe most recent episode aired in 2014 and centered on Nicki Minaj.\n\nIn 2018, MTV Latin America aired an episode centered on Lali Espósito.\n\n"}
{"id": "2023485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2023485", "title": "George W. Merrill", "text": "George W. Merrill\n\nGeorge W. Merrill (June 26, 1837 – January 10, 1914) was an American politician of the 19th century. He was born in Turner, Maine.\n\nMerrill was District Attorney of Nye County, Nevada from 1864 to 1868.\n\nOn April 2, 1885 Merrill was appointed U.S. Minister Resident (similar to modern-day ambassador) to the Kingdom of Hawaii. He presented his credentials on June 12, 1885, and was recalled on September 23, 1889.\nHe replaced Rollin M. Daggett, and was replaced by John L. Stevens. He later worked in San Francisco, California as a lawyer. He died there of an illness of seven weeks on January 10, 1914, aged 76.\n\n"}
{"id": "2023486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2023486", "title": "Singapore Stone", "text": "Singapore Stone\n\nThe Singapore Stone is a fragment of a large sandstone slab which originally stood at the mouth of the Singapore River. The large slab, which is believed to date back to at least the 13th century and possibly as early as the 10th or 11th century, bore an undeciphered inscription. Recent theories suggest that the inscription is either in Old Javanese or in Sanskrit, which suggested a possibility that the island was an extension of the Majapahit civilization in the past.\n\nIt is likely that the person who commissioned the inscription was Sumatran. The slab may be linked to the legendary story of the 14th-century strongman Badang, who is said to have thrown a massive stone to the mouth of the Singapore River. On Badang's death, the Rajah sent two stone pillars to be raised over his grave \"at the point of the straits of Singapura\".\n\nThe slab was blown up in 1843 to clear and widen the passageway at the river mouth to make space for a fort and the quarters of its commander.\n\nThe Stone, now displayed at the National Museum of Singapore, was designated by the museum as one of 11 National Treasures of Singapore in January 2006, and by the National Heritage Board as one of the top 12 artefacts held in the collections of its museums.\n\nIn June 1819, a few months after the arrival of Sir Stamford Raffles (1781–1826) in Singapore, a sandstone slab about high and long was found by labourers clearing jungle trees at the southeast side of the mouth of the Singapore River. It stood at a promontory known as the Rocky Point, and later as Artillery Point, Fort Fullerton and the Master Attendant's Office. (In 1972, a short projection from the slab's site was constructed and a statue of an imaginary beast called the Merlion placed on it. The statue has since been relocated.) According to papers from the \"Journal of the Asiatic Society of Bengal\" which were collected by Sir William Edward Maxwell and republished in 1886, one Dr. D.W. Montgomerie said that the rock was brought to light by some Bengal sailors employed by Captain Flint, R.N., the first Master Attendant:\n\nThe slab was inscribed with 50 or 52 lines of script, but by the time of its discovery the meaning of the inscription was already a mystery to the island's inhabitants.\n\nJohn Crawfurd (1783–1868), who was Resident of Singapore, described the slab in his journal on 3 February 1822 in these terms:\n\nJames Prinsep (1799–1840), an Anglo-Indian scholar and antiquary who started the \"Journal of the Asiatic Society of Bengal\", published a paper in the \"Journal\" in 1837 by a Dr. William Bland of H.M.S. \"Wolf\", which stated that he had made a facsimile of all that remained in any way perceptible on the slab. Dr. Bland described the slab thus:\n\nThe inscription was engraved in rounded letters about three-quarters of an inch (1.9 cm) wide.\n\nAbout January 1843, on the orders of the acting Settlement Engineer, Captain D.H. Stevenson, the slab was blown to pieces to clear and widen the passageway at the Singapore River mouth to make space for Fort Fullerton and the quarters of its commander. Some sources claim that the Superintendent of Public Works, George Drumgoole Coleman, was responsible for the Stone's destruction, but he was on leave and not in Singapore at the time of its blasting. Lieutenant-Colonel James Low had petitioned to have the sandstone slab spared, but had been told that it was in the way of a projected bungalow. On the explosion taking place, he crossed the river from his office and selected fragments that had letters on them. As the fragments were very bulky, he had them chiselled into small slabs by a Chinese man. He selected some of the smaller fragments bearing the most legible parts of the inscription and sent them to the Royal Asiatic Society's museum in Calcutta (now known as the Indian Museum) for analysis, where they arrived in about June 1848.\n\nAccording to Maxwell's papers, when news of the destruction of the sandstone slab reached Bengal, James Prinsep asked the Governor of the Straits Settlements, Colonel William John Butterworth, to secure any legible fragments that might still exist and to send them to the Royal Asiatic Society's museum. Butterworth replied: \"The only remaining portion of the stone you mention, except what Colonel Low may have, I have found lying in the verandah of the Treasury at Singapore, where it was used as a seat by the Sepoys of the guard and persons in waiting to transact business. I lost no time in sending it to my house, but, alas! not before the inscription was nearly erased. Such as the fragment was then however – \"i.e.\", in 1843 – it is now; for I have preserved the stone with much care, and shall have much pleasure in sending it for your museum, having failed to establish one, as I hoped to have done, in Singapore.\"\n\nA large block from the monument lay abandoned at Fort Canning until finally being broken up\nand used as gravel for a road. According to one W.H. Read, who arrived in Singapore in 1841:\n\nDr. D.W. Montgomerie, recalling that the Bengal sailors who had discovered the slab while clearing the jungle could not be persuaded to continue the work, commented: \"What a pity it is that those who authorized the destruction of the ancient relic were not prevented by some such wholesome superstition!\"\n\nIn 1918, the Raffles Museum and Library's Committee of Management asked the Royal Asiatic Society's museum in Calcutta to return the fragments of the sandstone slab, and the Calcutta museum agreed to send one fragment back to the museum. Archaeologist John N. Miksic has said that \"presumably the other pieces are still in Calcutta\".\n\nRaffles himself tried to decipher the inscriptions on the original sandstone slab. In his 1834 work, \"The Malay Peninsula\", Captain Peter James Begbie of the Madras Artillery, part of the Honourable East India Company, wrote:\n\nIn the \"Hikayat Abdullah\", Abdullah bin Abdul Kadir (1796–1854), also known as Munshi Abdullah, recorded Raffles taking missionary Rev. Claudius Henry Thomsen and himself to see what Raffles described as a \"remarkable stone\" in October 1822. Raffles apparently took the view that the writing had to be Hindu \"because the Hindus were the oldest of all immigrant races in the East, reaching Java and Bali and Siam, the inhabitants of which are all descended from them\".\n\nIn his note published in the \"Journal of the Asiatic Society of Bengal\" of 1837, Dr. William Bland reported that he had \"frequently made pilgrimages\" to the Stone, \"determined, if it were possible, to save a few letters, could they be satisfactorily made out, to tell us something, however, small, of the language or the people who inscribed it, and hence eke out our limited and obscure knowledge of the Malayan Peninsula.\"\n\nWith the assistance of a \"clever native writer\", Bland used \"well-made and soft dough\" to take impressions of the characters on the slab to copy them. After an impression of each character had been made, the character itself in the stone was painted over with white lead, \"as far as the eye could make it out, ... and if the two agreed, it was considered as nearly correct as possible, and although this was done to all the characters, it was more particularly attended to in the more obscure ones, for the letters marked in the facsimile with more strength could readily be copied by the eye.\" Bland also discovered that when the Stone was viewed \"when the sun was descending in the west, a palpable shadow was thrown into the letter, from which great assistance was derived.\"\n\nIn Bland's view, \"speaking from a very limited knowledge of the subject\", the inscription was in \"the ancient Ceylonese, or Pálí\". James Prinsep concurred, saying that although he could not venture to put together any connected sentences or even words, \"some of the letters – the \"g\", \"l\", \"h\", \"p\", \"s\", \"y\", &c. – can readily be recognised, as well as many of the vowel marks\". He expressed the opinion that the purpose of the inscription \"is most probably to record the extension of the Buddhist faith to that remarkable point of the Malay Peninsula\".\n\nIn \"The Malay Peninsula\" (1834), Captain Peter James Begbie made \"an attempt to throw some light upon a subject so confessedly obscure\". He referred to the legend of the 14th-century strongman Badang in the \"Malay Annals\" (1821), a posthumously-published English translation of the \"Sejarah Melayu\" (1612) by the British orientalist John Leyden (1775–1811). According to the \"Malay Annals\", news of Badang's remarkable feats of strength reached the land of Kling (the Coromandel Coast). The Rajah of that country sent a champion named Nadi Vijaya Vicrama to try his strength with him, staking seven ships filled with treasures on the issue of the contest. After a few trials of their relative powers, Badang pointed to a huge stone lying before the Rajah's hall and asked his opponent to lift it, and to allow their claims to be decided by the greatest strength displayed in this feat. The Kling champion assented, and, after several failures, succeeded in raising it as high as his knee, after which he immediately let it fall. Badang took up the stone, poised it easily several times, and then threw it out into the mouth of the river, and this is the rock which is at this day visible at the point of Singhapura, or Tanjong Singhapura. The \"Annals\" go on to state that after a long time, Badang died and was buried at the point of the straits of Singhapura, and when the tidings of his death reached the land of Kling, the Rajah sent two stone pillars to be raised over his grave as a monument, and these were the pillars which were still at the point of the bay.\n\nBegbie went on to speculate that the monument installed over Badang's grave was the sandstone slab at the mouth of the Singapore River, and that the inscription contained a recital of Badang's feats. He identified the \"Rajah of Kling\" as Sri Rajah Vicrama who reigned from 1223 to 1236. In Begbie's view, the inscription was in an obsolete dialect of Tamil:\n\nJ.W. Laidlay examined fragments of the sandstone slab that had been donated to the Asiatic Society of Bengal by Colonel Butterworth and Lieutenant-Colonel James Low, strewing finely-powdered animal charcoal over the surface of the stones and sweeping it gently with a feather so as to fill up all the depressions; in this way \"the very slightest of which was thus rendered remarkably distinct by the powerful contrast of colour. By this means, and by studying the characters in different lights\", Laidlay was able to make drawings of the inscriptions on three fragments. According to Laidlay, the fragment shown in the top drawing seemed to have been from the upper part of the inscription, but was omitted in Prinsep's lithograph as effaced. He could not identify the other two fragments with any portion of the lithograph.\n\nLaidlay felt that the square shape of the characters had misled Prinsep into concluding that the inscription was in Pali. In fact, the characters bore no resemblance whatsoever to Pali. Laidlay was unable to identify the characters with those of any published Sinhala inscriptions, but found it identical with Kawi, a literary language from the islands of Java, Bali and Lombok based on Old Javanese with many Sanskrit loanwords. He noted, \"With the alphabet of this language, ... I can identify all, or nearly all, of the characters; but of course no clue to the purport of the inscription can be obtained without some knowledge of the language itself.\" Relying on Begbie, he, too, \"conjectured with probability that the inscription is a record of some Javanese triumph at a period anterior to the conversion of the Malays to Muhammadanism\".\n\nThe first effectual study of the sandstone fragments was by the Dutch epigrapher Johan Hendrik Caspar Kern. He succeeded in deciphering a few words, including \"salāgalalasayanara\", \"ya-āmānavana\", \"kesarabharala\" and \"yadalama\", but was unable to identify the language in which they were written. He gave the probable date of the inscription as around 1230. Another Dutch Indologist, N.J. Krom, judged from a rubbing of the Stone published in 1848 that the script resembled that of the Majapahit Empire but dated from a period somewhat earlier than 1360.\n\nOther scholars have taken different views. Dr. J.G. de Casparis, a scholar of ancient Indonesian writing, gave the preliminary judgment that the style of the script might date from an earlier period such as the 10th or 11th century. He was able to decipher one or two words, which seemed to be in the Old Javanese language. On the other hand, Drs. Boechari, epigraphical expert of the Indonesian National Research Centre for Archaeology and lecturer at the University of Indonesia, was of the opinion that the engraving dates from no later than the 12th century, has a closer affinity to the Sumatran than the Javanese writing style, and that the language may not be Old Javanese but Sanskrit, which was in common use in Sumatra at that era. John Miksic has commented that while it is impossible to determine whether de Casparis's or Boechari's theory is more correct on the basis of epigraphy alone, it is easier to accept the conclusion that the person who commissioned the inscription was culturally Sumatran rather than Javanese, because by the 10th century the linguistic influence of Java had reached the Lampung region in the south of Sumatra, but no such influence has been discovered as far north as Singapore and there is no evidence of Javanese colonisation in Sumatra or the offshore islands at that time. Miksic notes that most conclusions regarding the slab have been on the basis of rubbings or photographs, and thus there is a \"slight possibility\" that detailed analysis of fragments of the sandstone slab may provide more information about the age of the inscription or the nature of its contents. However, he also says that the script probably never will be fully deciphered.\n\nIn December 2019, Dr. Iain Sinclair from Australia claimed to have identified the fragment “kesariva” in the inscriptions which he said was part of the word “parakesarivarman” – a title used by several kings of the Tamil Chola dynasty in India. It suggests Tamil connections with the Strait of Singapore as far back as 1,000 years ago, thus redefining the island’s historical timeline. He suggests that the stone could have been created at the beginning of the 11th century.\n\nOne of the fragments of the original sandstone slab that was saved by Lieutenant-Colonel Low, which was later returned to what was then the Raffles Museum in Singapore, is today known as the Singapore Stone. It is currently displayed in the Singapore History Gallery of the National Museum of Singapore. The Stone was designated by the Museum as one of 11 \"national treasures\" in January 2006, and by the National Heritage Board as one of the top 12 artefacts held in the collections of its museums.\n\nThe Singapore Stone, along with its connection to the legend of Badang, was depicted during the 2016 Singapore National Day Parade.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2023491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2023491", "title": "El retablo de maese Pedro", "text": "El retablo de maese Pedro\n\nOtto Mayer-Serra has described this opera as a work where Falla reached beyond \"Andalusianism\" for his immediate musical influence and colour and began the transition into the \"Hispanic neo-classicism\" of his later works.\n\nIn 1919 Winnaretta Singer, aka la Princesse Edmond de Polignac, commissioned from Falla a piece that could be performed in her salon, using her own elaborate puppet theater. (Her other commissions included Igor Stravinsky's \"Renard\" and Erik Satie's \"Socrate\", although neither of those works had its premiere in her private theater.) The work was completed in 1923. Falla decided to set an episode from Cervantes' \"Don Quixote\" that actually depicts a puppet play. Don Quixote watches a puppet show and gets so drawn into the action that he seeks to rescue the damsel in distress, only to destroy poor Master Peter's puppet theater in the process.\n\nFalla's original plan for the Princess's theater was a two-tiered, play-within-a-play approach: large puppets representing Quixote, Master Peter, and the others in attendance, and small figures for Master Peter's puppets. The three singers would be with the orchestra in the pit, rather than onstage. After a concert performance in Seville on 23 March 1923, that is how it was performed with the Princess's puppets in the music room of her Paris estate on 25 June of that year, with Vladimir Golschmann conducting. Hector Dufranne sang Don Quijote (Quixote), Wanda Landowska played the harpsichord (Falla composed his 1926 Harpsichord Concerto for her in appreciation), and Ricardo Viñes and Emilio Pujol were among the artists and musicians serving as stagehands. Also at the premiere was Francis Poulenc, who met Landowska for the first time; she asked him to write a harpsichord concerto for her, and his \"Concert champêtre\" was the result.\n\nThe world premiere was given as a concert performance on 23 March 1923 at the Teatro San Fernando, Seville, Spain. It was conducted by the composer.\n\nThe staged premiere took place on 25 June 1923 at the Palace of the Princess of Polignac in Paris. It was conducted by Vladimir Golschmann, with sets and puppets by Hermenegildo Lanz, Manuel Ángeles Ortiz, José Viñes Roda and Hernando Viñes. The staging was under the direction of Manuel de Falla.\n\nThe premiere was attended by the poets, musicians, and painters who comprised the exclusive court of the Princess de Polignac. Five days later, Corpus Barga published a report in \"El Sol\" with verbal portraits of some of those present: Paul Valéry, \"the poet of the day, making gestures like a shipwrecked man drowning in the waves of feminine shoulders\"; Stravinsky, \"a mouse among the cats\" and Pablo Picasso \"in evening dress, and mobbed by everybody, [who] seems as though he is resting in a corner with his hat pulled down over one eyebrow\", and the artist José Maria Sert.\n\nFalla went on to tour the piece quite successfully throughout Spain with the Orquesta Bética, a chamber orchestra he had founded in 1922. \"El retablo de maese Pedro\" was a great success for Falla, with performances and new productions all over Europe within a few years of the premiere. In 1926 the Opéra-Comique in Paris celebrated Falla's 50th birthday with a program consisting of \"La vida breve\", \"El amor brujo\", and \"El retablo de maese Pedro\". That performance used new designs by Falla's close friend, the artist Ignacio Zuloaga, and new marionettes carved by Zuloaga's brother-in-law, Maxime Dethomas. For this production singers and extras replaced the large puppets, and Falla and Zuloaga took part personally, with Zuloaga playing Sancho Panza and Falla playing the innkeeper. Also in 1926, in April, Luis Buñuel directed the opera in Amsterdam, using real actors for some of the roles. Later performances have frequently used singers and actors to replace the puppets. José Carreras made his operatic debut at age 11 as the boy narrator, Trujamán, in a 1958 production conducted by José Iturbi at the Gran Teatre del Liceu. In 2004 it was performed at Hofstra University for a gathering of Cervantes specialists.\n\nEnsemble: flute (doubling piccolo), 2 oboes, English horn, clarinet, bassoon, 2 horns, trumpet, percussion (bell, tenor drum, rattles, tambourine, tam-tam, xylophone), timpani, harpsichord, harp-lute (or harp), strings.\n\nScore published by J. London & W. Chester\n\nDedication: \" Princesse Edmond de Polignac\"\n\n\"El pregón (The announcement)\".\nMaster Peter, the puppeteer, appears ringing a bell, with a monkey on his shoulder. He calls for attention and announces the performance of \"The Tale of Melisendra\", a story about the alleged daughter of Charlemagne who was held captive by Moors in Zaragoza. \"Vengan, vengan, a ver vuesas mercedes el Retablo de la libertad de Melisendra\" (\"Come, come and see, my lords, \"The Tale of Melisendra's Freedom\"\"). The audience comes in, Don Quixote being ushered to an honored place in the front row.\n\n\"Historia de la libertad de Melisendra (Tale of the rescue of Melisendra, introduction)\". The narration is sung by Master Peter's apprentice (the Boy or Trujamán): he begins introducing the subject. \"Esta verdadera historia...\" (This true story...).\n\n\"Scene 1. La corte de Carlomagno (Charlemagne's court)\".\nThe palace of Charlemagne. Melisendra, the emperor’s alleged daughter, is held captive in Zaragoza by the Moorish king Marsilio. Her husband Don Gayferos, who has forgotten Melisendra, is playing chess with Don Roland. Charlemagne is angry and urges Don Gayferos to action. The latter refuses the help of Roland, saying that he himself is sufficient to rescue Melisendra. The scene is acted after the narrative explanation, the two knights rising from their game as the Emperor enters to appropriately stately music and confronts Don Gayferos, striking him with his scepter, before turning away. Left alone, the two knights quarrel and Don Gayferos storms out in anger.\n\n\"Scene 2. Melisendra\".\n\"Ahora verán la torre del Alcázar de Zaragoza...\" (Now, you see the tower of the castle of Zaragoza\"). On a balcony of the tower, probably her prison, we see Melisendra, thinking of Paris and her husband. A Moor approaches stealthily and steals a kiss from her; she speedily cleans her lips and calls for help. King Marsilio witnessed this stolen kiss, and orders the guards to seize the insolent Moor. He is taken through the streets to the town square, where Marsilio's sentence of two hundred blows is carried out.\n\nThe boy adds that among the Moors justice is very speedy, not like it is in Christian Spain. Don Quixote objects that the boy is getting off the subject: \"Niño, niño, seguid vuestra historia línea recta...\" (\"Boy, boy: tell your tale straightforwardly\"). Master Peter tells the boy to keep to the story, without embellishments. The puppeteer returns to his booth and Don Quixote sits down.\n\n\"Scene 3. El suplicio del moro (The Moor's punishment)\".\nThe Moorish soldier is punished: the blows he receives are in time with the music. The Moor falls and is dragged away by the guards.\n\n\"Scene 4. Los Pirineos (The Pyrenees)\".\nDon Gayferos is riding to rescue Melisendra, going over a mountain (the Pyrenees). He is wrapped in a long cloak and carries a hunting-horn, which he blows at moments specified in the score. The curtain closes again and the boy describes how Melisendra, at the window of her tower, talks to Gayferos, thinking he is a passing stranger. She quotes an old poem (\"romance\"), asking him to ask in Paris for Don Gayferos. The knight reveals his identity, at which Melisendra is very happy, climbing down from the balcony. Don Gayferos picks her up and sets her behind him on his horse, setting off for Paris.\n\n\"Scene 5. La fuga (The escape)\".\nPart of the action of Scene 4 is repeated. Melisendra, in the tower. beckons to Gayferos to approach, climbs down from the tower, and rides behind him on his horse. They ride off trotting, and the curtain closes. The boy wishes them well, as true lovers, and a safe arrival home, with happy lives, which he hopes are as long as Nestor's. Master Peter shows his face to tell the boy to keep to the point. \"Llaneza, muchacho, no te encumbres, que toda afectación es mala\" (Simplicity, boy, don't elaborate too much; affectation is bad). The curtain now opens for the last time, showing King Marsilio running to get his guards, who depart immediately.\n\n\"Scene 6. La persecución (The pursuit)\".\nMarsilio sounds the alarm, and the city is in turmoil, with bells ringing from all the minarets. Don Quixote jumps up to object that this is ridiculous (\"Eso no, que es un gran disparate\": \"That's not right, it's a big mistake\"); the Moors did not have bells, only drums and shawms. Master Peter shows his head again to tell Don Quixote not to be such a stickler for accuracy, since plays are frequently full of errors and are successful all the same. Don Quixote agrees.\n\nThe Moorish soldiers pursue the \"Catholic lovers\". The boy expresses the fear that they will catch the pair, and will bring them back tied to the tail of their own horse (dragged). At this point Don Quixote cannot restrain himself, and addresses the puppets: \"Alto, malnacida canalla, non les sigáis ni persigáis, si no, conmigo sois en batalla\" (\"Stop, low-born rabble, don't follow them, or you'll have to fight with me\").\n\n\"Finale\".\nContinuing to insult the Moors, in archaic, chivalric language, the furious Don Quijote uses his sword to destroy the puppets. He declares that here is proof of the usefulness of knights-errant: \"¡Quisiera yo tener aquí delante aquellos que no creen de cuanto provecho sean los caballeros andantes!\": \"I wish those who say knights-errant are of no use could see \"this\"!\". He also declares his dedication to his imaginary lady, Dulcinea (\"señora de mi alma, día de mi noche, gloria de mis penas, norte de mis caminos\": figuratively \"owner of my soul, light in my darkness, glory of my suffering, my destination\"). Master Peter can only complain in despair at the havoc wrought on his puppets.\n\nThe musical idiom abandons the Andalusian taste of Falla's earlier work in favor of medieval and Renaissance sources; for his narrator, Falla adapted the sung public proclamations, or \"pregones\", of the old Spanish villages. Falla borrowed themes from the Baroque guitarist Gaspar Sanz, the 16th-century organist and theorist Francisco Salinas, and Spanish folk traditions (but Castilian folk music, not Andalusian), in addition to his own evocative inventions. His scoring, for a small orchestra featuring the then-unfamiliar sound of the harpsichord, was lean, pungent, neo-classical in a highly personal and original way, and pointedly virtuosic. The output is a completely original piece of music, apparently simple, but of a great richness. The match of music and text is one of the greatest achievements of the work: as never before Spanish language finds here its genuine musical expression.\n\nFrom \"Celebrating Don Quixote\" by Joseph Horowitz:\n\nAudio\n\nVideo\n\nOn 29 May 1938, the BBC presented a black-and-white television movie of an English translation of the work, using the Don Quixote translation of Thomas Shelton and with the guidance of British Hispanist and musicologist J. B. Trend. Frederick Sharpe sang the role of Don Quixote, Jane Connard The Boy, and Perry Jones Master Peter. Hyam Greenbaum conducted the BBC Television Orchestra. Puppets were from Hogarth Puppets.\n\nA filmed version in color of the opera is included on the DVD release \"Nights in the Gardens of Spain\". and is available on YouTube. This is the same film version which was telecast by A&E in 1992, and features Justino Díaz as Don Quixote, Xavier Cabero as the Boy, and Joan Cabero (Xavier's father) as Maese Pedro, with Charles Dutoit conducting the Montreal Symphony Orchestra. In this production, the human characters are portrayed by real actors, while the puppets remain puppets. The production has been released without English subtitles, unlike the original telecast and the VHS edition. In the DVD edition, an English translation of the opera is included in the accompanying booklet. A LaserDisc version was released in 1990 both in Spain, on the PAL system, and in the U.S., on the NTSC system. The audio is also available on CD.\n\n"}
{"id": "2023494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2023494", "title": "Sericite", "text": "Sericite\n\nSericite is the name given to very fine, ragged grains and aggregates of white (colourless) micas, typically made of muscovite, illite, or paragonite. Sericite is produced by the alteration of orthoclase or plagioclase feldspars in areas that have been subjected to hydrothermal alteration typically associated with copper, tin, or other hydrothermal ore deposits. Sericite also occurs as the fine mica that gives the sheen to phyllite and schistose metamorphic rocks.\n\nThe name comes from Latin \"sericus\", meaning \"silken\" in reference to the location from which silk was first utilized, which in turn refers to the silky sheen of rocks with abundant sericite.\n\n"}
{"id": "2023497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2023497", "title": "Stanwell Park railway station", "text": "Stanwell Park railway station\n\nStanwell Park railway station is located on the South Coast railway line in New South Wales, Australia. It serves the seaside village of Stanwell Park opening on 23 December 1901, relocating to its current location on 10 October 1920.\n\nThe original rail line followed what is now Lawrence Hargrave Drive, curving around the southern headland and through Stanwell Park. The station opened on 14 March 1890 at its original site opposite Station Street under the footbridge. To the north the line followed Chellow Dene Avenue to the Otford Tunnel through Bald Hill.\n\nA platform was provided on the eastern side on 24 April 1890, and was moved to the western side to make room for a crossing loop which opened on 23 December 1901. Station buildings were added on 4 June 1903 and a signal box on 17 May 1909. A second platform was provided on 13 July 1909, and the footbridge over the station installed on 9 October 1911.\n\nTo the north a steep grade of 1 in 40 faced northbound trains almost all the way to Otford. This combined with the long Otford Tunnel meant that many trains were divided at Stanwell Park and hauled through to Otford or Waterfall in stages. Refuge sidings were provided for northbound trains at Stanwell Park from 17 December 1912 so that the rear portion of divided trains no longer had to be left on the main line.\n\nIn 1920, the original single line was replaced with a double track deviation. The deviation avoided the Otford Tunnel and steep grades by tracing around the Stanwell Park amphitheatre at a higher level, and the present station was constructed. The new line featured an eight span, long, high curved viaduct over Stanwell Creek south of the station which required over three million bricks in its construction.\n\nStanwell Park has two side platforms and is serviced by NSW TrainLink South Coast line services travelling between Waterfall and Port Kembla. Some peak hour and late night services operate to Sydney Central, Bondi Junction and Kiama.\n\nPremier Charters operates two routes to and from Stanwell Park station:\n\n"}
{"id": "2023505", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2023505", "title": "Total Request", "text": "Total Request\n\nTotal Request was a music video request show on MTV in the United States.\n\nThe show was created in 1997, at a time with MTV was being heavily criticized for showing fewer music videos than it had in the past. As a reaction, five shows were created: \"12 Angry Viewers\", \"MTV Live\", \"Say What?\", \"Artist's Cut\" and \"Total Request\". \n\nViewers would vote at night for the videos they would like to see on the show, either calling a toll-free line or voting at MTV's web site. Carson Daly originally hosted the show, seemingly away from MTV's newly acquired studios in Times Square. \n\nIn 1998, the show was combined with \"MTV Live\" to create \"Total Request Live\", commonly known as \"TRL\", which ended in 2008.\n"}
{"id": "2023508", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2023508", "title": "Lotus tenuis", "text": "Lotus tenuis\n\nLotus tenuis is a flowering plant of the pea family Fabaceae, native to western and southern Europe and southwest Asia. Some botanists treat it as a subspecies of \"Lotus corniculatus\", as \"L. corniculatus\" subsp. \"tenuifolius\".\n\nIts tolerance of salt and poor soil make this plant useful for marginal conditions. It has become naturalised in many other locations, including the Pampas of Argentina, and parts of the United States.\n\nCommon names include narrowleaf trefoil, narrow-leaved bird's-foot-trefoil, slender trefoil\", \"creeping trefoil, or prostrate trefoil.\n\n"}
{"id": "2023512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2023512", "title": "GE Security", "text": "GE Security\n\nGE Security was a division of General Electric Inc's GE Enterprise Solutions. It was acquired by UTC on March 1, 2010 and became part of UTC Fire & Security. GE Security's division provides intrusion alarm systems, integrated security systems, fire systems, access control, video surveillance, explosives and illegal drug detection, key control/lockbox, fiber optic transmission, machine guarding, and more. GE Security was based in Bradenton, FL.\n\nGE Security is mainly aimed at businesses (medium to large), organizations, and governments, but products from GE Security are available for both residents and small businesses. GE Security includes different families of detection systems, web-based surveillance systems, and aviation security products, such as handheld and walk-thru explosive/narcotics portals. Much of General Electric's fire systems came from the acquisition of Edwards Systems Technology from SPX Corporation in May 2005.\n\nOn November 12, 2009, GE Security announced that it had signed a definitive agreement with United Technologies Corporation for UTC to acquire GE’s Security business for $1.82 billion. The transaction was approved by the boards of both companies, and the sale closed on March 1, 2010.\n\nGE has warned consumers of ongoing scams related to GE Security home security products in which telemarketers and door-to-door salespeople falsely say they work for GE Security and attempt to sell home security systems even though GE has not manufactured, sold, or marketed any home security equipment since 2016.\n"}
{"id": "2023513", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2023513", "title": "La vida breve", "text": "La vida breve\n\nLa vida breve (Spanish \"Life is Short\" or \"The Brief Life\") is an opera in two acts and four scenes by Manuel de Falla to an original Spanish libretto by Carlos Fernández-Shaw. Local (Andalusian) dialect is used. It was written between August 1904 and March 1905, but not produced until 1913. The first performance was given (in a French translation by Paul Millet) at the Casino Municipal in Nice on 1 April 1913. Paris and Madrid performances followed, later in 1913 and in 1914 respectively. Claude Debussy played a major role in influencing Falla to transform it from the number opera it was at its Nice premiere to an opera with a more continuous musical texture and more mature orchestration. This revision was first heard at the Paris premiere at the Opéra-Comique in December 1913, and is the standard version.\n\nOnly an hour long, the complete opera is seldom performed today, but its orchestral sections are, especially the act 2 music published as \"Interlude and Dance\", which is popular at concerts of Spanish music. (Fritz Kreisler in 1926 arranged for violin and piano the dance from this pairing under the spurious title \"Danse espagnole\".) Indeed the opera is unusual for having nearly as much instrumental music as vocal: act 1, scene 2 consists entirely of a short symphonic poem (with distant voices) called \"Intermedio\", depicting sunset in Granada; act 2, Scene 1 includes the above-referenced \"Danza\" and \"Interludio\", with the latter ending the scene, i.e. in the opposite sequence to the excerpted pairing; and act 2, scene 2 begins with the a second and longer \"Danza\" (with vocal punctuation).\n\nThe role of Salud is central to the action. It has been sung by, among others, soprano Victoria de los Ángeles, mezzo-soprano Teresa Berganza, mezzo Martha Senn, and, more recently, soprano Cristina Gallardo-Domâs. \n\n\"Afternoon and sunset in the (gypsy) Albaicín district\"\n\nA male chorus of anvil workers plies their trade at the local forge. The young gypsy, Salud, is passionately in love with a young well-to-do man named Paco. She does not know, and Paco does not tell her, that he is already engaged to a woman of his social class. Her uncle, Sarvaor (Salvador), and her grandmother (\"La abuela\") have discovered this, and they try to prevent Salud from interrupting Paco's wedding after she learns the truth.\n\n\"A wealthier part of the city: in front of a house on whose patio wedding festivities are in progress (and visible from the street), and then in the patio itself\" \n\nConfrontation (which from several perspectives is the theme of the whole opera) occurs after Salud and Sarvaor gate-crash the festivities, astonishing the bride and the guests and momentarily throwing the mendacious groom so much off his guard that he utters Salud's name before denying he knows her and ordering her ejection. Her heart broken, Salud falls dead at his feet, in what is said to be the ultimate gesture of contempt for a former lover.\n\nThere are 11 complete recordings, as of February 2012. Cast key is \"Conductor / Salud, La abuela, Paco, El tío Sarvaor\":\n\n"}
{"id": "2023525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2023525", "title": "Gnecchi-Soldo Organtino", "text": "Gnecchi-Soldo Organtino\n\nGnecchi-Soldo Organtino (1530 – April 22, 1609) was an Italian missionary with the Society of Jesus, of Nanban period (1543–1650). He is an example of Nanbanjin (Barbarians from the south, as the Occidental were called), who visited Japan at that period.\n\nWith a motive to promote Christianity in East Asia Organtino joined Society of Jesus, and he was sent to Japan in 1570 via Portuguese India and Portuguese Malacca. Earning a respect of Oda Nobunaga, Organtino built Nanban temple in Kyoto in 1576, monastery and church in Azuchi by Lake Biwa in 1580. He also opened religious school. In sum, he made a great contribution to missionary work in Japan.\n\nAfter sent to Nagasaki, he died there in April 22, 1609.\n\n"}
{"id": "2023526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2023526", "title": "Seah Eu Chin", "text": "Seah Eu Chin\n\nSeah Eu Chin (; a.k.a. Siah U-chin, Seah Uchin or Seah You Chin; 18051883) was an immigrant from South China to Singapore, later becoming a successful merchant, a prominent descendant of Seah Clan and leader in the Overseas Chinese community.\n\nHe became known as the \"Gambier King\" for his extensive plantations for pepper and gambier.\n\nSeah Eu Chin was born in 1805 as the son of Seah Keng Liat (), a minor provincial official of \"Guek-po\" (i.e. in Teochew dialect) \"Village\" at the Chenghai County of the former \"Chaozhou Fu\". He was educated in Chinese classics in his youth, but decided to seek his fortune abroad. He came to Singapore in 1823, first working as a clerk, then becoming a plantation owner and finally becoming a trader and a merchant.\n\nSeah Eu Chin was a successful plantation owner. He was the first to plant gambier (or white cutch) on a large scale in Singapore. By 1839, his gambier plantation had stretched for eight to ten miles, from the upper end of River Valley Road to Bukit Timah Road and Thomson Road. Mr Seah's holdings earned him the title: 'King of Gambier'. He made his fortune in gambier and pepper plantations. However, by the 1850s–60s, the planting of gambier and pepper was becoming less profitable in Singapore for several reasons, including the increasing scarcity of uncleared land for planting (gambier quickly exhausted the soil and so plantations had to keep shifting), the shortage of firewood from the clearing of forests, and the lack of land on Singapore Island itself.\n\nTherefore, in his later years, he became involved in trading as a merchant and agent under the name of Eu Chin Co. which was based in North Bridge Road. His sons, especially the eldest, Seah Cheo Seah, and second son Seah Liang Seah, helped manage the business, as did his brother-in-law, Tan Seng Poh.\n\nIn 1837, he married a daughter of Tan Ah Hun, the Kapitan (Captain) China (i.e. leader of the Chinese community) of Perak. She died soon after from the effects of smallpox, and about a year later, he married her sister with whom he had several children. His brother-in-law, Tan Seng Poh, came with his sister to Singapore to be educated there. Seng Poh was an opium and spirit farmer (i.e. he ran a government-tendered monopoly processing raw opium imported from British India. The Opium and Spirit Farm, or Excise, was the main source of income for the Straits Settlements) and helped manage Eu Chin's mercantile firm after the latter's retirement in 1864. Most prominent among his children were Seah Liang Seah and Seah Peck Seah, both of whom also became Justices of the Peace and prominent members of the Chinese community; the former was also an unofficial member of the Legislative Council of the Straits Settlements. His eldest son, Seah Cheo Seah, was also a J.P. but he died only two years after his father, in 1885. He had another son, Seah Song Seah, who died in China, and three daughters, about whom very little is known.\n\nIn 1830, he and representatives of twelve Teochew clans set up the Ngee Ann Kun which later became the Ngee Ann Kongsi in 1845. He was the chairman of the Kongsi until his death whereupon power passed to his sons Seah Cheo Seah and Seah Liang Seah, followed by his grandson Seah Eng Tong, resulting in a Seah monopoly on power in the Kongsi until 1928. Resentment against them caused the formation of another Teochew clan association, the Teochew Poit Ip Huay Kuan.\n\nSeah Eu Chin helped run Tan Tock Seng Hospital when it was first set up, being a member, and in some years treasurer, of its management committee.\n\nJust as the European merchant community used Chinese middlemen in conducting their business, the Straits Settlements government relied on prominent Chinese businessmen to act as go-betweens with the Chinese community. Seah Eu Chin was the go-between with the Teochew community, which originated from the Chaozhou province of Southern China. He rendered service in helping to quell several disturbances in the community, most notably the 1854 Hokkien-Teochew Riots which broke out on 5 May 1854. The incident ostensibly began because of a dispute over the price of rice, between a Hokkien and a Teochew, but that dispute probably was only a trigger for the release of long-held resentment and animosity between the Hokkien (from Fujian province in China) and Teochew (from Chaozhou province) communities. In all over 400 people were killed over 10 days of violence. The British authorities on Singapore island met with Chinese leaders, including Seah Eu Chin representing Teochews and Tan Kim Ching representing the Hokkiens, and with their assistance helped to bring the situation to a close.\n\nHe was an early member of the Singapore Chamber of Commerce, established in 1837, and was made a Justice of the Peace in 1867. He had also been a member of the Grand Jury since 1851, and also had cases involving Chinese referred to him by the court. In 1872, he was made an honorary police magistrate, along with four other Chinese including his brother-in-law Tan Seng Poh.\n\nSeah Eu Chin finally retired from business in 1864, to concentrate on scholarly pursuits, though he still had an interest in community affairs. For instance, his name is with that of several other Chinese on a petition submitted to the government requesting the suppression of illegal \"Wah-Weh\" gambling among the Chinese community. In the last decade of his life he lived in a mansion built by his son Seah Cheo Seah that was among the Four Mansions () of the 19th-century Chinese in Singapore.\n\nHe died on 23 September 1883, and his widow in 1905. He was buried in the family estate near the SLF Building along Thomson Road. His tomb was re-discovered in late 2012.\n\nSeveral streets in Singapore are named for Seah Eu Chin and his sons, namely Eu Chin Street, Liang Seah Street, and Peck Seah Street. Seah Street, in Bras Basah, is named for the Seah family.\n\n"}
{"id": "2023529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2023529", "title": "Buckskins", "text": "Buckskins\n\nBuckskins are clothing, usually consisting of a jacket and leggings, made from buckskin, a soft sueded leather from the hide of deer. Buckskins are often trimmed with a fringe – originally a functional detail, to allow the garment to shed rain, and to dry faster when wet because the fringe acted as a series of wicks to disperse the water – or quills.\n\nBuckskins derive from deerskin clothing worn by Native Americans. They were popular with mountain men and other frontiersmen for their warmth and durability. Buckskin jackets, often dyed and elaborately detailed, are a staple of western wear and were a brief fad in the 1970s. The American jacket/tunic known as a wamus was originally made from buckskin with fringe.\n\n"}
{"id": "2023542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2023542", "title": "On a Little Street in Singapore", "text": "On a Little Street in Singapore\n\n\"On a Little Street in Singapore\" is a jazz song written by Peter DeRose and Billy Hill. Though now obscure, it had some measure of popularity in the 1930s and 1940s, marked by a number of high-profile performances. Artists to cover the song included Frank Sinatra with Harry James, Dave Brubeck & Paul Desmond, Glenn Miller, Bert Kaempfert, Jimmy Dorsey and most recently Bob Dylan. Manhattan Transfer covered it again in 1978.\n\nThe music writer Will Friedwald places the song in a \"long list of intercultural, interracial romances-that-can-never-be\" likening the theme of the song to the \"tragic mulatto syndrome\" as identified by the film critic Donald Bogle. Friedwald categorises the song in this context with other Orientalist compositions such as \"Poor Butterfly\" and \"Japanese Mammy\". \n\nPatrick Burke discussed Charlie Shavers May 1940 recording of the song in his 2008 book \"Come In and Hear the Truth: Jazz and Race on 52nd Street\" writing that Shavers \"evokes an exotic Orientalist atmosphere through the combination of an unusual melodic mode and a repeated figure in the bass and drums\".\n\nThe Glenn Miller Orchestra released \"On a Little Street in Singapore\" with a vocal by Ray Eberle in May 1944. Anticipating the end of the Second World War, \"Billboard\" wrote that Miller would be \"the hottest thing in band fronting\" and described the song as \"good, if a little dated\" but concluded that \"with tune and Miller sizzling what more can be desired?\".\nReviewing Bob Dylan's album \"Fallen Angels\" which included the song, Michael Hann wrote in \"The Guardian\" that \"On a Little Street in Singapore\" was a \"throwaway number\" whose \"strength is all in the melody\" and lacked the \"romantic profundity\" of the other songs on the album.\n\nThe British figure skaters Jane Torvill and Christopher Dean performed their ice dance routine in figure skating at the 1980 Winter Olympics to \"On a Little Street in Singapore\".\n\n\"On a Little Street in Singapore\" was one of the earliest recordings made by Frank Sinatra. It was recorded at a session with the Harry James Orchestra on 13 October 1939 at the same time as \"Who Told You That I Cared?\". It was later issued as a 78 rpm single. The arrangements of both songs at the session were written by Andy Gibson. Sinatra's version of the song was the first Sinatra recording that the future Frank Sinatra discographer Vito Marino heard. Will Friedwald, in his 1995 book \"Sinatra! the Song is You: A Singer's Art\" wrote that the recording finds Sinatra and James \"making like two American sailors in a Far East opium den\". Friedwald feels that Sinatra \"plays it cautiously\" on the song, staying close to the melody and beat, perhaps intimidated by the bolero rhythm of the song.\n"}
{"id": "2023546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2023546", "title": "Military communications", "text": "Military communications\n\nMilitary communications or military signals involve all aspects of communications, or conveyance of information, by armed forces. Military communications span from pre-history to the present. The earliest military communications were delivered by runners. Later, communications progressed to visual and audible signals, and then advanced into the electronic age. Examples from \"Jane's Military Communications\" include text, audio, facsimile, tactical ground-based communications, naval signalling, terrestrial microwave, tropospheric scatter, satellite communications systems and equipment, surveillance and signal analysis, encryption and security and direction-finding and jamming.\n\nIn past centuries communicating a message usually required someone to go to the destination, bringing the message. Thus, the term \"communication\" often implied the ability to transport people and supplies. A place under siege was one that lost communication in both senses. The association between transport and messaging declined in recent centuries.\n\nThe first military communications involved the use of runners or the sending and receiving of simple signals (sometimes encoded to be unrecognizable). The first distinctive uses of military communications were called \"signals\". Modern units specializing in these tactics are usually designated as \"signal corps\". The Roman system of military communication (\"cursus publicus\" or \"cursus vehicularis\") is an early example of this. Later, the terms \"signals\" and \"signaller\" became words referring to a highly-distinct military occupation dealing with general communications methods (similar to those in civil use) rather than with weapons.\n\nPresent-day military forces of an informational society conduct intense and complicated communicating activities on a daily basis, using modern telecommunications and computing methods. Only a small portion of these activities are directly related to combat actions. Modern concepts of network-centric warfare (NCW) rely on network-oriented methods of communications and control to make existing forces more effective.\n\nDrums, horns, flags, and riders on horseback were some of the early methods the military used to send messages over distances. The advent of distinctive signals led to the formation of the signal corps, a group specialized in the tactics of military communications. The signal corps evolved into a distinctive occupation where the signaller became a highly technical job dealing with all available communications methods including civil ones.\n\nIn the middle 20th century radio equipment came to dominate the field. Many modern pieces of military communications equipment are built to both encrypt and decode transmissions and survive rough treatment in hostile climates. They use different frequencies to send signals to other radios and to satellites.\n\nMilitary communications – or \"comms\" – are activities, equipment, techniques, and tactics used by the military in some of the most hostile areas of the earth and in challenging environments such as battlefields, on land (compare radio in a box), underwater and also in air. Military comms include command, control and communications and intelligence and were known as the C3I model before computers were fully integrated. The U.S. Army expanded the model to C4I when it recognized the vital role played by automated computer equipment to send and receive large, bulky amounts of data.\n\nIn the modern world, most nations attempt to minimize the risk of war caused by miscommunication or inadequate communication. As a result, military communication is intense and complicated, and often motivates the development of advanced technology for remote systems such as satellites and aircraft, both manned and unmanned, as well as computers. Computers and their varied applications have revolutionized military comms. Although military communication is designed for warfare, it also supports intelligence-gathering and communication between adversaries, and thus sometimes prevents war.\n\nThere are six categories of military comms: the alert measurement systems, cryptography, military radio systems, nuclear command control, the signal corps, and network-centric warfare. The alert measurement systems are various states of alertness or readiness for the armed forces used around the world during a state of war, act of terrorism or a military attack against a state. They are known by different acronyms, such as DEFCON, or defense readiness condition, used by the U.S. Armed Forces.\n\nCryptography is the study of methods of converting messages to a form unreadable except to one who knows how to decrypt them. This ancient military comms art gained new importance with the rise of radio systems whose signals traveled far and were easily intercepted. Cryptographic software is also widely used in civilian commerce.\n\nIn United States military communications systems, commercial refile refers to sending a military message via a commercial communications network. The message may come from a military network, such as a tape relay network, a point-to-point telegraph network, a radio-telegraph network, or the Defense Switched Network.\n\nCommercial refiling of a message will usually require a reformatting of the message, particularly the heading.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2023548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2023548", "title": "Jack B. Johnson", "text": "Jack B. Johnson\n\nJack Bruce Johnson (born April 3, 1949) is a former American politician and lawyer. He was a Maryland state's attorney and was, from 2002 to 2010, the county executive of Prince George's County, Maryland. He was elected state's attorney in November 1994 and served as county executive from December 2002 to December 2010. On November 12, 2010, both Johnson and his wife were indicted on federal charges as part of a larger political corruption scandal in the county.\n\nOn May 17, 2011, Johnson pleaded guilty to extortion and witness- and evidence-tampering. He served most of his seven-year and three-month sentence at the Cumberland Federal Correctional Institution, with prisoner number 52777-037. On December 15, 2016, Johnson was released to a federal halfway house near Baltimore. He was released from federal custody in June 2017.\n\nJohnson grew up on Johns Island, located outside of Charleston, South Carolina. The fifth of ten children, Johnson's mother was a maid and his father was a farmer who raised white potatoes, okra, and string beans. He attended a segregated high school, which he claimed heavily shaped his worldview as a young person.\n\nIn 1970, Johnson received a bachelor's degree in business administration from Benedict College, an historically black school in Columbia, South Carolina. He also served in the United States Army from 1970 to 1976. After college, Johnson's goal was to \"get a nice job\" where he could \"wear a suit\", which led him to the accounting department of a life insurance company in New York City. Johnson returned to school soon after and graduated from Howard University School of Law in 1975 with a J.D. He entered into a legal career with the Internal Revenue Service, where he spent nearly a decade from 1975 to 1984 working as an attorney for the chief counsel. For a brief period from 1984 to 1987, Johnson was associate professor of tax law at North Carolina Central University School of Law.\n\nIn 1985, Johnson was recruited into politics by serving as the campaign treasurer for Alexander Williams, Jr., an old friend from law school vying for the State's Attorney office of Prince George's County. Williams defeated 24-year incumbent Arthur \"Bud\" Marshall, thereby becoming the first black person elected to a countywide office in Prince George's. After his election, Williams hired Johnson as Deputy State's Attorney. Johnson's responsibilities in that position included day-to-day management of the office, including administration of its $5 million budget.\n\nWilliams was appointed to a federal judgeship in 1994 by President Bill Clinton, opening the state's attorney seat for another politician. Soon after the news, Johnson announced his candidacy for the seat, surprising many of his colleagues who did not perceive political ambition in Johnson. However, Johnson built a strong community network and won the Democratic primary election with twice as many votes as the runner-up. He handily won the general election that November.\n\nJohnson's tenure as top prosecutor in Prince George's was marked by an aggressive push against police brutality in the notoriously violent Prince George's County Police Department. He fired several deputy state's attorneys for refusing to prosecute officers, and his frequent battles with the police department brought a great deal of both positive and negative attention to his office. While his allies defended his aggressive push against the police as simply pursuing justice, opponents—including the police union—questioned his intentions and accused him of political grandstanding. One circuit court judge in the county even questioned Johnson's grasp of criminal law after dismissing one of his cases.\n\nJohnson was elected county executive in 2002 and re-elected in 2006. He served until his term expired on December 6, 2010.\n\nA November 20, 2006, article in \"The Washington Post\" detailed excessive travel expenses claimed by Johnson:\n\nIn 2010, the Office of the Maryland State Prosecutor began investigating whether Johnson and four other Prince George's County council members had solicited bribes and favors while deliberating on a one-million-dollar annual lease for a county agency.\n\nOn November 12, 2010, Jack Johnson and his wife Leslie were arrested by the FBI as part of the federal probe of political corruption in Prince George's County. They were charged with witness tampering and destruction of evidence. According to court documents filed by the FBI, Johnson is accused of taking kickbacks and bribes in exchange for helping a developer secure federal funding for housing developments. Johnson can be heard on a wiretap instructing Leslie to locate and flush a $100,000 check from the developer down a toilet at their home and to hide $79,600 in cash in her bra as FBI agents knocked at the door of their home with a search warrant. The Johnsons were charged with crimes that carried a sentence of up to 20 years in jail for each offense, but they were both released with Jack Johnson being placed on home detention with electronic monitoring. Johnson remained in office until December 6, when his term expired; Leslie was sworn in as a newly elected county council member on the same day; however, she was not eligible to remain in the office if she were convicted of a felony.\n\nOn February 14, 2011, Johnson was indicted for allegedly soliciting more than $200,000 in bribes as part of a conspiracy that dates back to 2003. While Johnson is the only person named in the indictment, two unnamed developers were named co-conspirators in the indictment. The indictment reports that the FBI recorded conversations between Johnson, a developer and the county director of housing where cash bribes were solicited.\n\nOn May 17, 2011, Johnson agreed to a plea deal in which he pleaded guilty to extortion and witness- and evidence-tampering. Following Johnson's hearing, federal prosecutors revealed that former county housing director James Johnson (no relation) and developers Mirza Hussein Ali Baig and Patrick Ricker had pleaded guilty as part of a larger corruption probe. Leslie Johnson had been scheduled to plead guilty on May 3, but the hearing was abruptly canceled. Leslie Johnson pleaded guilty to federal corruption charges on June 30, 2011.\n\nOn December 6, 2011, Johnson was sentenced to seven years and three months in Butner federal prison in North Carolina. He was also fined $100,000.\n\nJohnson continued serving his sentence after a move to the Cumberland Federal Correctional Institution, with prisoner number 52777-037. On December 15, 2016, Johnson was released to a federal halfway house near Baltimore to serve the remainder of his sentence. He was released from federal custody in June 2017 after serving more than five years, which included a reduction for good behavior.\n\nJohnson had lived with wife, Leslie Johnson, who was a co-conspirator in the 2010 FBI investigation, and his three children in Mitchellville, Maryland. He is also a member of the Omega Psi Phi fraternity.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2023549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2023549", "title": "Lotus pedunculatus", "text": "Lotus pedunculatus\n\nLotus pedunculatus (formerly Lotus uliginosus), the big trefoil, greater bird's-foot-trefoil or marsh bird's-foot trefoil, is a member of the pea family (Fabaceae).\n\nIt is a herbaceous perennial growing throughout Europe in damp, open locations. As one common name suggests, it is a larger plant than related \"Lotus\" species, growing tall, with leaflets long and broad. Five to twelve golden-yellow flowers long are borne in an umbel at the tip of the upright stem.\n\nUnlike related species, the stem is always hollow, and the sepals turn back at their tips – these sepal tips form a characteristic \"green star\" at the end of the flower bud. The peak flowering period in the United Kingdom is June and July.\n\n\"Lotus pedunculatus\" occurs in a wide range of neutral, damp, open habitats, including certain fen-meadow plant associations such as \"Juncus subnodulosus\"-\"Cirsium palustre\" fen-meadow habitat.\n\n\"Lotus pedunculatus\" is also a host plant for ovipositioning of the wood white butterfly, \"Leptidea sinapis.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2023550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2023550", "title": "Serena Southerlyn", "text": "Serena Southerlyn\n\nSerena Southerlyn is a fictional character (played by Elisabeth Röhm) on the long-running NBC drama series \"Law & Order\". She appeared in 85 episodes.\n\nSoutherlyn joins the District Attorney's office in the 2001 episode \"Who Let the Dogs Out?\" as an assistant district attorney, replacing Abbie Carmichael (Angie Harmon). She worked under District Attorneys Nora Lewin (Dianne Wiest) and Arthur Branch (Fred Thompson) and Executive Assistant District Attorney Jack McCoy (Sam Waterston). She was the second longest serving junior ADA in the history of the series, having served three complete seasons and half of a fourth.\n\nSoutherlyn often disagrees with McCoy over their trial strategies in cases where she sees the defendant's crime as a by-product of social circumstances, such as homelessness or racism. She has an especially troubled relationship with Branch, a conservative who replaced Lewin as District Attorney in 2002. There is some nuance in her political outlook, however; she takes a hardline stance against illegal immigration, and sees the Miranda Warning as \"trite\" and a \"hollow formality\".\n\nIn the 2002 episode \"DR 1-102\", Southerlyn is brought before the New York Supreme Court, Appellate Division's Disciplinary Committee after promising to get legal help for a murder suspect who had taken hostages, to get him to release his prisoners. The man had a knife to a woman's throat and demanded a lawyer. Southerlyn, who happened to be in the area, volunteered to enter the store where the holdup was taking place, to negotiate the hostage's release. Since the man had asked for a lawyer, the committee attempts to paint Southerlyn's actions as fraudulent, since she was supposedly representing herself as \"his\" lawyer (which she denies), when she was in fact a district attorney. McCoy, who had been brought before the committee himself in the 1998 episode \"Monster\", represents her. She is reprimanded, but keeps her law license.\n\nIn several episodes, Southerlyn is portrayed as opposing the death penalty, which often puts her in a difficult ethical position when working with McCoy and Branch, who both support capital punishment.\n\nRöhm left the show in the middle of the fifteenth season, and made her last appearance in the episode \"Ain't No Love.\" She was replaced by Alexandra Borgia (Annie Parisse).\n\nHer departure was noteworthy due to a surprising conversation between Southerlyn and Branch in the very last scene of the episode. At the close of the show, Branch dismisses Southerlyn because he feels she is too sympathetic toward defendants, and that her emotions get in the way of looking at the facts. A stunned Southerlyn pauses for a moment, then asks, \"Is this because I'm a lesbian?\" Startled by the accusation, Branch protests, \"No. Of course not. No.\" Her final line is \"Good... Good.\" This is the first and only instance that Southerlyn's homosexuality was ever explicitly mentioned, although there had been subtle hints in earlier episodes.\n\nIn the 2002 episode \"Girl Most Likely,\" while discussing a gay murder suspect, she notes \"Coming out's got to be a pretty tough thing to do, no matter how understanding your parents are,\" but she phrases the remark as a hypothetical statement and thus avoids the inference that she has experienced such feelings personally. In the 2004 episode \"Gov Love,\" she is uncomfortable with a case in which McCoy successfully seeks to have same-sex marriage declared illegal in New York in order to get testimony from a gay defendant's spouse. Southerlyn had objected to this and refused to assist McCoy, but her sexual orientation was never mentioned. She mentions in another episode that she dated a male college student while she was still in high school and that he is now a New York State Senator.\n\nThe decision to announce Southerlyn's homosexuality only as the character left the show was widely denounced both by fans and critics. \"Slate\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s Dana Stevens called the line \"a cheap stunt\", as did \"USA Today\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s Robert Bianco and numerous fans. The media director for the Gay & Lesbian Alliance Against Defamation (GLAAD) stated to \"Chicago Tribune\" television critic Maureen Ryan, \"For a show that usually employs gay and lesbian characters as sensational plot devices, it's really disappointing to have one of the leads come out five seconds before she exits the show.\" Ryan also cited as \"typical\" a fan comment from Universal Television's fan forum that read, \"They have never discussed her sexuality on the show before and all of a sudden, she's gay in her last two lines? Terrible writing decision.\" Tim Goodman of the \"San Francisco Chronicle\" joined those calling the move a \"cheap stunt\", adding, \"but here's why it didn't work: Anyone who knows anything about gay people knows that no lesbian could ever be that bad of an actress.\" Diane Holloway of the \"Austin American-Statesman\" was one of many critics who chose to answer Southerlyn's on-screen question, while citing her as third runner-up for a list of \"the most annoying actors on television\".\n\nCritic Kevin Thompson of the \"Palm Beach Post\" similarly replied, \"No, it's because you're a robotic actress.\"\n\nSeries creator Dick Wolf later explained at the Television Critics Association press tour that he had consulted Röhm before scripting the scene — the only Wolf-authored scene in the installment — saying, \"Do you want to go out with a bang or a whimper?\" He characterized the scene as \"unabashedly a water-cooler moment. And the fact that we're discussing it shows that I think it worked as a water-cooler moment.\" Wolf also noted the effectiveness of the device by reporting that the show's main online chat room \"crashed 15 minutes after the show was over,\" although critic Alan Pergament joked in his column that the response came not because viewers approved, but \"because many fans thought the out-of-left field ending was a crime.\"\n\n\"TV Guide\" called Rohm \"arguably the most inept cast member\" in the series' first 18 years, with Ben Katner writing \"we are dancing in the streets\" upon her departure. Dusin Rowles of Pajiba described Rohm as a \"disaster\" and a \"catastrophe\". \"Entertainment Weekly\" called Rohm's performance and character \"wooden\". AfterEllen.com reported that Southerlyn was \"one of the show's more disliked characters\" due to her \"cold and robotic\" portrayal.\n\nRohm is credited in a total of 85 episodes of the \"Law & Order\".\n"}
{"id": "2023553", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2023553", "title": "Long Live the Kane", "text": "Long Live the Kane\n\nLong Live the Kane is the debut album by American rapper Big Daddy Kane, released by Cold Chillin' Records on June 21, 1988. It was produced by Marley Marl and established both as premier artists during hip hop's golden age. Kane displayed his unique rapping technique while covering topics including love (\"I'll Take You There\"), Afrocentricity (\"Word to the Mother(Land)\") and his rapping prowess (\"Set It Off\"). Marley Marl and Big Daddy Kane display a sparse production style - creating beats with fast-paced drums and lightly utilized James Brown samples.\n\nFour singles were released in promotion of Kane's first album: \"Raw/Word to the Mother (Land),\" \"Ain't No Half-Steppin'/Get Into It,\" \"I'll Take You There/Wrath of Kane\" and \"Set It Off/Get Into It.\" The most commercially successful of these singles were \"Ain't No Half-Steppin'\", which reached #53 on the Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Singles & Tracks chart, and \"I'll Take You There\", which reached #73 on the same chart, but also peaked at #21 on the Hot Rap Singles chart. The other two singles did not chart, but \"Raw\" and \"Set It Off\" popularized Big Daddy Kane's high-speed style and abundant use of word play. \"Raw\" and \"Ain't No Half Steppin'\" are both described as \"underground sensation[s]\" and \"classic[s]\" by Allmusic's Steve Huey. \"Raw\" does not appear on \"Long Live the Kane\", but a remix which utilizes the same beat does.\n\nBig Daddy Kane's debut album contains many tracks that were later featured on greatest hits compilations. \"Ain't No Half Steppin'\" alone is featured on \"The Very Best of Big Daddy Kane\", \"Marley Marl's House of Hits\", two \"best of\" Cold Chillin' Records compilations and over five additional hip-hop hit compilations. Nowithstanding \"Ain't No Half Steppin',\" \"The Very Best of Big Daddy Kane\" contains five songs from Kane's debut album. Allmusic's Steve Huey regards \"'Raw,' 'Set It Off,' and 'Ain't No Half-Steppin' [as] flawless bids for immortality [that] haven't lost an ounce of energy.\"\n\nThe album is broken down track-by-track by Big Daddy Kane in Brian Coleman's book \"Check the Technique\".\n\nAs is the case with many Juice Crew associated projects on the Cold Chillin' label, the production was handled by legendary beatmaker Marley Marl. This has become a source of contention among many former artists on the label, Big Daddy Kane included. According to these artists, Marl was not really responsible for the production on their songs, arguing that he contributed little to no creative input beyond engineering and programming the drums. Marl has countered the artists claims by suggesting that the rappers had limited knowledge of production equipment, and would have not gotten the same signature \"boom bap\" sound that was unique to the producer.\n\nIn reality, many Juice Crew rappers would indeed bring in records that they wished to sample, and choose which parts they wished to rhyme over. Marl would then hook the beat up on a sampler, and give it his characteristic sound. This artistic synergy resulted in songs like \"Ain't No Half Steppin'\", which according to Kane, Marl initially disapproved of because of its multiple samples. Others were already full songs before being programmed, such as \"Just Rhymin' With Biz\" and \"Set It Off\". \"Set It Off\" was originally made by The 45 King, and was intended for Biz Markie. However, Kane heard it and liked the James Brown sound it had, asking 45 King for the beat. The 45 King sped up the beat, and gave the song its signature sampled hook.\n\nBig Daddy Kane's debut album is one of the most influential hip hop albums from the Golden Era. Kane's lyrics have been sampled and reused, his rapping style has been emulated as well as the beats. Nas' \"Where Are They Now\" - a tribute to hip hop's unknown legends - not only references Big Daddy Kane's group, the Juice Crew, but uses the same James Brown sample (\"Get Up, Get Into It, Get Involved\") that Marley Marl used on \"Set It Off.\" In addition, lyrics from \"Just Rhymin' with Biz\" have been sampled by Pete Rock & CL Smooth (\"I Get Physical,\" \"The Main Ingredient,\" \"In the Flesh\" and \"Get on the Mic\"), AMG (\"Jiggable Pie\"), AZ (\"Rather Unique\"), the Stieber Twins (\"PBB Get's Physical\"), Big L (\"M.V.P.\"), Gang Starr (\"Here Today, Gone Tomorrow\"), the Beastie Boys (\"So What'cha Want\"), Real Live (\"Real Live Shit (Remix)\"), RZA (\"Cameo Afro\") and interpolated by Masta Ace (\"Nostalgia\" by Marco Polo) and Brother Ali (\"Star Quality\"). \"Ain't No Half Steppin'\" has also been sampled by various artists including Nice & Smooth (\"No Delayin'\"), Ed O.G. & Da Bulldogs (\"I'm Different\"), The Notorious B.I.G. (\"Ready to Die\"), Jeru the Damaja (\"Frustrated Nigga\"), Elzhi (\"Talkin' In My Sleep\"), People Under The Stairs (\"Youth Explosion\"), the Hieroglyphics (\"One Life, One Love\"), Blackalicious (\"A To G\"), K-Solo (\"Letterman\") and MF Doom (\"Potholderz\"). In addition, Gang Starr samples vocals from \"Word to the Mother (Land)\" on \"Manifest\", Mr. Lif samples vocals from \"Raw (Remix)\" on \"Live from the Plantation\", and Celph Titled and Buckwild sample a vocal from \"Rhymin with Biz\" on \"Eraserheads.\"\n\nOn \"The Listening,\" a 2002 song by Little Brother, rapper Phonte reminisces about the Golden Age and his influences stating:\n\nIn 1998, the album was selected as one of \"The Source\"s 100 Best Rap Albums. In 1999, \"ego trip\" ranked it as the sixth best hip hop album released in 1988. In 1989, \"Spin\" chose it as the twentieth best album of 1988. Nas ranked the album as one of his 25 Favorite Albums.\n\nIt was certified as gold by the Recording Industry Association of America in 1989, and it remains as one of only two of Kane's albums to have sold over 500,000 copies. The other Big Daddy Kane album to reach gold status, \"It's a Big Daddy Thing\", is the only album said to rival \"Long Live the Kane\" as the rapper's best album. AllMusic's Stanton Swihart contributes the positive reception of \"Long Live the Kane\" to Big Daddy Kane's versatility and personality: \n\n"}
{"id": "2023557", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2023557", "title": "Nick O'Hern", "text": "Nick O'Hern\n\nNicholas Simon O'Hern (born 18 October 1971) is an Australian professional golfer.\n\nO'Hern has played on both of the world's premier professional golf tours, the European Tour, and the United States-based PGA Tour. His biggest successes though, have come at home on the PGA Tour of Australasia, where he won the Order of Merit as the leading money winner in 2006.\n\nO'Hern was born in Perth, Western Australia. His father was a three-handicap golfer who played baseball for Australia, and he followed him by playing baseball for Western Australia. He was also a talented tennis player, but he chose to concentrate on golf. In 2009, he was named the Number 1 Ticket Holder for the Fremantle Football Club. O'Hern has a wife and two daughters. He currently resides in Melbourne, Australia. He has published his book \"\"Tour Mentality: Inside the Mind of a Golf Pro\"\" in 2016.\n\nO'Hern took up golf at the age of nine and plays left-handed. He turned professional in 1994. He was successful at the European Tour qualifying school at his first attempt in 1998 and played regularly on the European Tour from 1999 through 2007. He has not won on the European Tour, but had two second-place finishes in 2003, two more in 2004 and one each in 2005, 2006 and 2007.\n\nIn 2005, O'Hern began to play quite regularly in the United States. He was not a member of the PGA Tour, but having reached the top twenty of the Official World Golf Rankings, he received a substantial number of invitations and sponsors exemptions for PGA Tour events. In 2006 he became a member of the PGA Tour on the basis of his membership of the International Team at the 2005 Presidents Cup, and has since played mostly on that tour.\n\nAlso in 2006, O'Hern won the Australian PGA Championship, after he holed out from the greenside bunker for birdie on the fourth hole of a two-man play-off with Peter Lonard. The win brought to an end a seven-year drought for O'Hern, and propelled him to the top of the PGA Tour of Australasia's Order of Merit for 2006. He has won five tournaments in Australia, and continues to play on the PGA Tour of Australasia during the northern hemisphere winter.\n\nO'Hern has featured in the top 20 of the Official World Golf Rankings, and he is the only player who has beaten Tiger Woods in matchplay more than once. He is coached by Neil Simpson, Peter Thomson and Lewis Freiberg of the Mount Lawley Golf Club in Perth, Western Australia.\n\nKnee surgery ended O'Hern's 2010 season after 11 events. He started the 2011 season on a medical exemption. O'Hern satisfied his medical exemption in May 2011 with four events remaining to retain his PGA Tour status. On 6 June, O'Hern went through sectional qualifying and secured a spot in the 2011 U.S. Open.\n\nO'Hern has never won on the PGA Tour; his best finish is a tie for second at the 2006 Booz Allen Classic.\n\nO'Hern's ball marking has become famous because of its originality. In an ode to his native Australia, O'Hern marks his Titleist Pro V1 with a drawn-on kangaroo. The marking has been featured in Titleist advertisements.\n\n\nPGA Tour of Australasia playoff record (1–1)\n\nEuropean Tour playoff record (0–1)\n\nCUT = missed the half-way cut<br>\n\"T\" = tied\n\n\nCUT = missed the halfway cut<br>\n\"T\" indicates a tie for a place\n\nCancelled due to 9/11<br>\nQF, R16, R32, R64 = Round in which player lost in match play<br>\n\"T\" = Tied<br>\nNT = No tournament<br>\nNote that the HSBC Champions did not become a WGC event until 2009.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2023560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2023560", "title": "I Believe I Can Fly", "text": "I Believe I Can Fly\n\n\"I Believe I Can Fly\" is a 1996 song written and performed by American singer, songwriter, record producer, and former semi-professional basketball player R. Kelly, from the soundtrack to the 1996 film \"Space Jam\". It was originally released on November 26, 1996, and was later included on Kelly's 1998 album \"R.\"\n\nIn early 1997, \"I Believe I Can Fly\" reached number two on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100; it was kept from the number one spot by Toni Braxton's \"Un-Break My Heart\". Although Kelly has had two number one songs on the pop chart, \"I Believe I Can Fly\" is his most successful single. It reached the number-one spot of the \"Billboard\" R&B Singles Chart and remained there for six non-consecutive weeks, keeping \"Un-Break My Heart\" from the top position of that chart for four of those weeks. \"I Believe I Can Fly\" also topped the charts in eight countries (including the United Kingdom)\n\nThe song received five nominations at the 40th Annual Grammy Awards, winning Best Male R&B Vocal Performance, Best R&B Song, and Best Song Written for Visual Media, while losing Song of the Year and Record of the Year. It was ranked number 406 on \"Rolling Stone\"s list of the 500 Greatest Songs of All Time in 2004. The music video was directed by Kelly with Hype Williams and designed by visual artist and designer Ron Norsworthy.\n\nIn a 2013 interview with The Boombox, R. Kelly was asked about the creative process behind the song: \"When I met Michael Jordan on a basketball court at an athletic club — we hooped together in Chicago — he came to me and asked me if I wanted to do a song for his upcoming movie,\" Kelly said. \"I was like, “Yeah!” I didn’t even ask what it was. [Eventually] he let me know what it was, we went to a screening to watch it and that’s when I ended up coming up with ‘I Believe I Can Fly.’ I knew from the first melody that was gonna be the song that was gonna take me out of R&B and into another genre of music.\"\n\n\"Associated Press\" described the song as \"majestic\" and \"gospel-styled\", noting that \"hearing R. Kelly's booming voice reach a crescendo while backed up by a choir is a rousing performance that will get many replays\". Larry Flick from \"Billboard\" wrote that the song is \"highly inspirational\" and \"embodying the mind-set of the two superstars [Michael Jordan and R. Kelly]\". He added, \"\"If I can dream it, I can achieve it.\" A great motivator for the children who will flock to the silver screen for Jordan\". \"Chicago Sun-Times\" called it a \"warm anthem\". Ross Scarano from \"Complex\" said, \"Like it or not, R. Kelly’s “I Believe I Can Fly” works because of R. Kelly. There’s not another singer alive with the same combination of ability, earnest conviction, and personal demons—demons that Kelly believes he needs the listener’s support to fight.\" He added that Kelly \"calls on strings and a choir and every bit of strength available in his lungs and vocal chords to rise above the broad struggle described in the lyrics.\" David Browne from \"Entertainment Weekly\" commented that the \"go-for-it lyrics and florid orchestration seem to have been written with a future Disney musical in mind.\" Tom Ewing from Freaky Trigger noted \"I Believe I Can Fly\"'s \"genuine power as a redemption song\" and added \"the most convincing self-help song\". \"Lennox Herald\" wrote that the song is \"the undoubted highlight of the [\"Space Jam\"] album\". \"People\" labeled it as \"schmaltzy but potent\", while James L. Brown from \"USC Today\" called it a \"long slow ballad\".\n\n\n\nOther than appearing on the soundtrack for the film \"Space Jam\", \"I Believe I Can Fly\" was performed by the school band in the movie \"Drumline\" during the high school graduation ceremony of Devon Miles (Nick Cannon). \n\nKelly performed his song at the 40th Annual Grammy Awards.\n\nIn The TP-2.com Tour, Kelly performed a 10-minute long remix of \"I Believe I Can Fly,\" which included dialogue from a priest, Kelly's mother, and God as characters. The remix was later featured on the bootleg release \"\".\n\nSTS-122 crew heard this song on flight day 10 as a wake up call.\n\nSince its release, it has become commonly associated with the NBA, most notably with Michael Jordan. The song also played at the conclusion of NBC's broadcast of the 1997 NBA Finals.\n\nIn addition to the NBA, the song also found use at other sporting events, most notably at Major League Baseball's New York Yankees home games during their four consecutive World Series runs from 1998 to 2001, the first three of which they won.\n\nA version of the song, recorded by the Halifax community choir, was used as the backing track to a 2012 UK TV advertisement for the Halifax Bank.\n\nOn October 13, 2012, when the Space Shuttle Endeavour was being transferred from Los Angeles International Airport to the California Science Center through the streets of Los Angeles, the recording was played as the shuttle left The Forum, and the song was performed live by James Ingram later that day at Debbie Allen's live show celebrating the Endeavour's arrival at the corner of Crenshaw Blvd and Martin Luther King Blvd. (The shuttle was delayed over five hours in arriving there; to keep the crowd entertained, the performance went on only slightly delayed.)\n\n"}
{"id": "2023563", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2023563", "title": "Wayne K. Curry", "text": "Wayne K. Curry\n\nWayne Keith Curry (January 6, 1951 – July 2, 2014) was an American politician. He was elected as the executive for Prince George's County, Maryland in November 1994, and served two terms as the county executive from December 1994 to December 2002. His career encompassed government, civic, and community affairs for more than 20 years.\n\nCurry was born in Brooklyn, New York on January 6, 1951, and grew up in Cheverly, Maryland, a community in the northwestern portion of Prince George's County. His family was the among the first non-white families to integrate into this community in the 1950s. His father was a school teacher, and his mother was a homemaker and later an office secretary. He and his older brother, Daryl Curry, were the first black students to attend Cheverly-Tuxedo Elementary School in 1959. Curry earned his high school diploma from Bladensburg High School in 1968.\n\nIn 1972, Curry earned his Bachelor of Arts degree in Psychology from Western Maryland College, where he was president of the freshman class. In 1969, Curry was on the junior varsity basketball team.\n\nFollowing graduation, he worked as a teacher and director of the Child Daycare Center of Prince George's County. In 1974, Curry took a hiatus from the professional area, and traveled across the United States. He earned money working at truck stops and slept at campsites throughout the country.\n\nFrom 1975 until 1978, Curry worked in the administration of Prince George's County Executive Winfield Kelly. Kelly was the executive for Prince George's County from 1974 until 1978. Curry's career began as a staffer responsible for writing constituent reply mail. He later went on to serve as community affairs assistant, administrative assistant to the county's Chief Administrative Officer and senior assistant to the executive. While working for Kelly, he also attended law school at night, earning his law degree from the University of Maryland School of Law in 1980, graduating with honors.\n\nFrom 1980 until 1983, Curry worked as a real estate and development lawyer for the \"Michael Companies\". In 1984, Curry started his own law practice and became a well-known, successful corporate attorney.\n\nFrom 1984 to 1992, Curry was General Counsel for \"Dimensions Health Corporation\", a major healthcare business that operates Prince George's General Hospital Center, the Laurel Regional Hospital, and the Bowie Health Center. Mr. Curry has served as Chairman of the United Way Campaign of Prince George's County, President of the Prince George's County Chamber of Commerce, Chairman of the \"School Superintendent's Advisory Committee on Black Male Achievement\", Chairman of the \"Prince George's County Substance Abuse Advisory Board\", a member of the \"Board of Directors of the Prince George's County Christmas in April\", Director of \"United Communities Against Poverty\", and Director of the \"Bonnie Johns Children's Fund.\"\n\nIn 1994, Curry returned to the county executive's office and made history when he became the first African American to serve in the County's highest elected office. He served two consecutive terms from December 1994 to December 2, 2002.\n\nCurry served on Governor Robert Ehrlich's 2002 transition team into the Governor's Mansion. Curry was appointed Commissioner to the Maryland Port Commission in 2003 by Gov. Ehrlich, a Republican. He was prominently mentioned in the news media as a speculative candidate for Lieutenant Governor when Ehrlich ran (unsuccessfully) for re-election in 2006, although Kristen Cox was eventually chosen as Ehrlich's running mate.\n\nCurry died in Upper Marlboro, Maryland on July 2, 2014, from lung cancer at the age of 63.\n\nCurry was married to Sheila Curry and had two children.\n\n"}
{"id": "2023567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2023567", "title": "Rollin M. Daggett", "text": "Rollin M. Daggett\n\nRollin Mallory Daggett (February 22, 1831 – November 12, 1901) was a 19th-century American politician and diplomat. Daggett served a single term as a United States Representative from Nevada. He had served in the Nevada Territorial Council. Later he was the United States Minister Resident to the Kingdom of Hawaii from 1882 to 1885. A member of the Sagebrush School, Daggett was also a writer.\n"}
{"id": "2023588", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2023588", "title": "Heartbreaker (Led Zeppelin song)", "text": "Heartbreaker (Led Zeppelin song)\n\n\"Heartbreaker\" is a song from English rock band Led Zeppelin's 1969 album, \"Led Zeppelin II\". It was credited to all four members of the band, recorded at A&R Recording and Atlantic Studios in New York City during the band's second concert tour of North America, and engineered by Eddie Kramer. \n\n\"Heartbreaker\" opens the second side of the album and features a guitar riff by Jimmy Page. It also includes a spontaneous unaccompanied solo, using a pull-off technique, which was voted the 16th-greatest guitar solo of all time by \"Guitar World\" magazine. \"Heartbreaker\" was ranked number 328 in 2004 by \"Rolling Stone\" magazine, in their 500 Greatest Songs of All Time.\n\nIn a 1998 interview with \"Guitar World\", Page commented that the guitar solo was recorded in a different studio, thereby giving a different sound than the rest of the song. He added that this was the first recorded instance of his Gibson Les Paul/Marshall Stack combination.\n\nThe song was a crowd favourite at Led Zeppelin concerts, and the band opened many of their live shows in 1971 and 1972 with \"Immigrant Song\" followed by a segue right into \"Heartbreaker\". On later concert tours it was often played as an encore. \"Heartbreaker\" and \"Communication Breakdown\" were the only songs to be played live during every year that the band toured.\n\nDuring live performances Page would frequently improvise the playing in his solo, and was also known to include parts of Bach's \"Bourrée in E minor\" from his \"Lute Suites\" (this can be heard on the live albums \"Led Zeppelin BBC Sessions\" and \"How the West Was Won\"), as well as Simon & Garfunkel's \"The 59th Street Bridge Song (Feelin' Groovy)\", though on official releases this section has been cut. Sometimes the solo would also be stretched out to incorporate sections of the traditional English folk song, \"Greensleeves\".\n\nA live, filmed version of the song from 1973 at Madison Square Garden, New York City, is included in the Led Zeppelin concert film, \"The Song Remains the Same\", although it is only shown in parts. For many years, this recorded version was left off the film's accompanying soundtrack album, until the album was remastered and re-released in 2007, with the full performance of the song included.\n\nLed Zeppelin's last performance ever of the song was on 29 June 1980, in Zürich. Following Bonham's death, the surviving members of Led Zeppelin performed \"Heartbreaker\" at the Atlantic Records 40th Anniversary concert in 1988, at Madison Square Garden, with John's son Jason Bonham on drums. Jimmy Page also performed this song on his tour with the Black Crowes in 1999. A version of \"Heartbreaker\" performed by Page and the Black Crowes can be found on the album \"Live at the Greek\".\n\n\"Heartbreaker\" is one of the songs featured in Nick Hornby's book \"31 Songs\". Record producer Rick Rubin has remarked, \"One of the greatest riffs in rock. It [\"Heartbreaker\"] starts, and it's like they don't really know where the \"one\" is. Magical in its awkwardness.\" Eddie Van Halen once claimed the \"Heartbreaker\" solo as the origin behind the tapping technique. In one review with \"Guitar World\", he said:\n\nSteve Vai has also commented about it in a September 1998 \"Guitar World\" interview: \"This one [Heartbreaker] had the biggest impact on me as a youth. It was defiant, bold, and edgier than hell. It really is the definitive rock guitar solo.\" American band Nirvana covered the song during their first show on 7 March 1987 in Raymond Washington. The cover was only released on the box set \"With the Lights Out\". Led Zeppelin parody/tribute band Dread Zeppelin recorded a reggae-influenced cover of the song with the lyrics from Elvis Presley's \"Heartbreak Hotel\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2023590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2023590", "title": "Hal Sever", "text": "Hal Sever\n\nHal Sever (c. 1910 – June 2005) was an English rugby international playing ten matches. He was educated at Shrewsbury School, which is normally regarded as a footballing school. He made his debut in 1936 as a member of the first English team to defeat the All Blacks and played an integral role in the English team in 1937 that won the Triple Crown. He played his last international game against Scotland in 1938. He played club rugby for Sale and represented Cheshire as well as playing 8 matches for the Barbarians.\n\nSever was part of an international three-quarter line for Sale playing with Claude Davey and Wilf Wooller of Wales and Ken Fyfe of Scotland.\n\nHe made his international debut against the All Blacks in the famous \"Obolensky\" match when Prince Obolensky scored two tries. Sever scored the other try in a 13–0 win which was England's first against New Zealand.\n\nSever's most memorable performance was in the Triple Crown series in 1937. He scored vital points in each match starting with a drop goal against Wales in a 4–3 victory at Twickenham. Sever scored a matchwinning try in the next match against Ireland on 13 February 1937 in which he beat several defenders in scoring wide out. The final score was 9–8. In the final match of the series at Murrayfield, Sever scored the second try in a 6–3 victory over Scotland.\n\nHis final international match was against Scotland in 1938 at Twickenham which was the first rugby match to be televised on the BBC. According to the \"Guinness Book of Sporting Blunders\", Sever \"dramatically ran into the opposition goalpost, losing not only the ball but his teeth as well\". Sever disputed this version of events in the \"Daily Telegraph\" in its edition of 26 February 1999 saying \"The suggestion that I collided with the posts is absolute nonsense ... I very nearly reached the tryline, was upheld by the opposing pack and was unable to ground the ball.\" Scotland won the match 21–16.\n\n"}
{"id": "2023604", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2023604", "title": "Ivvavik National Park", "text": "Ivvavik National Park\n\nIvvavik National Park ( ) is a national park of Canada located in Yukon. Initially named \"Northern Yukon National Park,\" the park was renamed Ivvavik in 1992 for the Inuvialuktun word meaning \"nursery\" or \"birthplace,\" in reference to the importance of the area as a calving ground for caribou. Created as a result of the Inuvialuit Final Agreement in 1984, negotiated between the Canadian Government and the Inuvialuit of the Northern Yukon, Ivvavik is the first national park in Canada to be established as a result of an aboriginal land claims agreement.\n\nIvvavik contains the British Mountains which run east to west, parallel to the Arctic coast, and merge into the Brooks Range in Alaska.\nDraining north through the Park from the British Mountains is the Firth River, the oldest river in Canada and considered one of the great rafting rivers of the world. The river starts from year-round aufeis formations at the headwaters and then flows through extensive canyon areas before forming a huge delta as it enters the Beaufort Sea just west of Herschel Island. The first raft descent was by Martyn Williams, Alan Dennis and Jim Boyde.\nGold miners have operated on the Firth River and at Sheep Creek until the area became a National Park. The area around Sheep Creek is the northern most extension of Dall sheep habitat in Canada\n\nThe park contains many cultural sites of continuing importance to the local indigenous people, both Inuit and Indian.\nProtecting a portion of the calving grounds of the caribou herd, the park allows only a minimal number of people to visit per year.\n\nOn the shore of Beaufort Sea, there is abundant game for Yukon wolves, grizzly bears, and black bears that inhabit the area. Other animals that inhabit this park two species of fox, Yukon moose, lemmings, Dall sheep, gyrfalcons, muskoxen, and wolverines. The Arctic National Wildlife Refuge lies just across the border in Alaska. The Firth River holds some of the longest stocks of Dolly Varden char in western Canada\n\nOn the south-east, Ivvavik National Park borders Vuntut National Park, established in 1995. Due to land claims negotiations, Vuntut is still quite undeveloped and has no roads or developed trails. Due to its undeveloped nature, several people have gotten lost and are presumed dead.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2023606", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2023606", "title": "Mandy Bruno", "text": "Mandy Bruno\n\nMandy Bruno (born September 20, 1981 in Phoenix, Arizona) is an American actress.\n\nMandy Bruno played the role of Marina Cooper on the television show \"Guiding Light\" from May 2004 to September 2009, and received a nomination for a Daytime Emmy Award in 2006 for Outstanding Younger Actress.\n\nBruno also has a BFA in Theater from Otterbein College in Westerville, Ohio, and was hired straight out of college for the role of Marina.\n\nBruno has also previously made headlines when she was attending Jesuit High School, a Catholic school in Portland, Oregon, and the school's administration refused to allow her to appear in the title role of Jesus the school's production of \"Jesus Christ Superstar\". The story garnered national media attention. Bruno eventually appeared in the production in the role of Pilate.\n\nShe performed the role of Eponine in the Broadway revival of \"Les Misérables\" at the Broadhurst Theater from April 24, 2007, through June 17, 2007.\n\nOn October 26, 2012 she played the role of Antonia Salducci in \"Risk and Reward\" in season 3, Episode 5 of the CBS crime drama \"Blue Bloods\".\n\nMandy has recently taken up a love of directing theatre as well. She had a two year stint at the Creative and Performing Arts Academy (CaPAA) in Scranton, Pennsylvania and now serves as the Artistic Director of the Foundry Theatre Company run out of Foundry42+ in Port Jervis, New York which is owned and operated by Cooper Boone.\n\nMandy married her former \"Guiding Light\" co-star Robert Bogue on March 26, 2011. She gave birth to their son, Flynn Zachariah Bogue, on January 13, 2012.\n"}
{"id": "2023618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2023618", "title": "Tuktut Nogait National Park", "text": "Tuktut Nogait National Park\n\nTuktut Nogait National Park () is a national park located in the Northwest Territories of Canada that was established in 1998. Meaning \"young caribou\" in Inuvialuktun, the park is home to the calving grounds of the Bluenose-West caribou herd.\n\nIt is also the home to other wildlife species which are muskoxen, grizzly bears, Arctic chars, red foxes, wolverines, Arctic ground squirrels, collared lemmings, and Arctic wolves. Tuktut Nogait is a major breeding and nesting ground for a wide variety of migratory birds. Raptors such as peregrine falcons, rough-legged hawks, gyr falcons and golden eagles nest along the steep walls of river canyons. \n\nThe Dolphin-Union Caribou herd which normally occupies Victoria Island and winters in the Bathurst area of Nunavut, sometimes migrates as far as Tuktut Nogait National Park following the shoreline in search of windswept areas where the snow cover is cleared making it easier for them to graze.\nThe park encompasses over and is located north of the Arctic Circle in the northeast corner of mainland Northwest Territories.\n\nThe main rivers that run through the park are the Hornaday River, Brock River and Roscoe River.\n\nHumans have occupied Tuktut Nogait since AD 1000 and recent surveys have identified over 400 archaeological sites in the park, including remnants of campsites, food caches, graves, and kayak rests. The oldest known archaeological sites are most likely Thule or Copper Inuit ranging from AD 1200 to 1500.\n\nFather Émile Petitot was the first European to reach the area in 1867-68. In 1930, the Hudson's Bay Company established an outpost at Letty Harbour but the post was closed in 1937 due to insufficient trade. In 1935, a Roman Catholic Mission was located at Paulatuk and operated a small trading post there until 1954. The Inuit who came to Paulatuk and the Darnley Bay area were primarily Mackenzie and Alaskan Inuit from the west. In 1955, most people abandoned the Paulatuk mission and moved to Cape Parry where a Distant Early Warning (DEW) line site was being built, which meant seasonal construction and permanent wage labour work.\n\nAs is outlined in the Inuvialuit Final Agreement and the Tuktut Nogait Agreement, Inuvialuit beneficiaries have the right to pursue subsistence harvesting within the park. Currently, this takes place in the north-western part of the park and mostly entails fishing Arctic char, hunting caribou, and some trapping. By federal national parks legislation, commercial or sport hunting is not permitted.\nCurrent park initiatives include establishing a base camp facility at Uyarsivik Lake to support ecological integrity and cultural resource monitoring, visitor opportunities, management meetings and youth outreach; developing a cultural resource strategy; and updating interpretive materials such as the Hornaday River guide.\n\nThere are four barren-ground caribou herds in the Northwest Territories—Cape Bathurst, Bluenose West, Bluenose East and Bathurst caribou herd. The Bluenose East caribou herd began a recovery with a population of approximately 122,000 in 2010, which is being credited to the establishment of Tuktut Nogait National Park. According to T. Davison 2010, CARMA 2011, the three other herds \"declined 84-93% from peak sizes in the mid-1980s and 1990s.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2023621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2023621", "title": "Third-party beneficiary", "text": "Third-party beneficiary\n\nA third-party beneficiary, in the law of contracts, is a person who may have the right to sue on a contract, despite not having originally been an active party to the contract. This right, known as a \"ius quaesitum tertio\", arises when the third party (\"tertius\" or \"alteri\") is the intended beneficiary of the contract, as opposed to a mere incidental beneficiary (\"penitus extraneus\"). It vests when the third party relies on or assents to the relationship, and gives the third party the right to sue either the promisor (\"promittens\", or performing party) or the promisee (\"stipulans\", or anchor party) of the contract, depending on the circumstances under which the relationship was created.\n\nA contract made in favor of a third party is known as a \"third-party beneficiary contract.\"\nUnder traditional common law, the \"ius quaesitum tertio\" principle was not recognized, instead relying on the doctrine of privity of contract, which restricts rights, obligations, and liabilities arising from a contract to the contracting parties (said to be \"privy\" to the contract). However, the Contracts (Rights of Third Parties) Act 1999 introduced a number of allowances and exceptions for \"ius quaesitum tertio\" in English law. Other common-law countries are also making reforms in this area, though the United States is unique in abandoning privity early in the mid-19th century.\n\nWhile the law on this subject varies, there is nonetheless a commonly accepted construction of third-party rights in the laws of most countries. A right of action arises only when it appears the object of the contract was to benefit the third party's interests and the third-party beneficiary has either relied on or accepted the benefit. A promisee nominates a third party usually for one of two reasons—either the promisee owes something to the third party and the performance of this new obligation will discharge it, or the promisee will somehow get a material benefit by giving something to the third party.\n\nThere are also two possible ways to explain the functioning of the contractual relationship: either,\nIn either case, a third-party contract differs from agency in that the promisee acts in his own name and for himself, whereas an agent or representative does not. It is also distinguishable from a \"promesse de porte-fort\" under which the third party has a negative obligation to perform and, by expressing his consent, initially substitutes himself for an intended party to a contract and therefore binds himself. Also, as a somewhat distinct rule, the intended beneficiary of a third-party contract does not need to be in existence at the time the contract is concluded. This means a contract may benefit an unborn person (usually a family member) or secure benefits for a legal person, such as a company, still in the process of forming or registering.\n\nFor third-party rights to come into existence, certain contractual criteria must be met to show an object to benefit:\n\nTo be enforceable, a \"ius quaesitum tertio\" must be irrevocable. This is established by any of the following:\n\nA third-party beneficiary only acquires a right of action to enforce his benefit once he has accepted the benefit provided for in the contract. Under the South African interpretation, however, prior to formal acceptance of the benefit, the third-party beneficiary only has a \"spes\", or expectation; in other words, he does not have the right to accept, but rather a mere competency. Acceptance may also be a suspensive condition in certain contracts. Under Scots law, acceptance is not necessary to be vested in a right of action, but is necessary to be liable. Before acceptance, however, the \"ius quaesitum tertio\" is tenuous so that acceptance of a benefit does not create a right, but rather entrenches that right. In either case, the contracting parties may vary or rescind the contract until acceptance or reliance.\n\nIn order for a third party beneficiary to have any rights under the contract, he must be an \"intended beneficiary\", as opposed to an \"incidental beneficiary\". The burden is on the third party to plead and prove that he was indeed an intended beneficiary.\n\nAn incidental beneficiary is a party who stands to benefit from the execution of the contract, although that was not the intent of either contracting party. For example, if Andrew hires Bethany to renovate his house and insists that she use a specific house painter, Charlie, because he has an excellent reputation, then Charlie is an incidental beneficiary. Neither Andrew nor Bethany is entering into the contract with the particular intent to benefit Charlie. Andrew simply wants his house properly renovated; Bethany simply wants to be paid to do the renovation. If the contract is breached by either party in a way that results in Charlie never being hired for the job, Charlie nonetheless has no rights to recover anything under the contract. Similarly, if Andrew were to promise to buy Bethany a Cadillac, and were to later go back on that promise, General Motors would have no grounds upon which to recover for the lost sale.\n\nThe distinction that creates an intended beneficiary is that one party—the \"promisee\"—makes an agreement to provide some consideration to a second party—the \"promisor\"—in exchange for the promisor's agreement to provide some product or service to the third-party beneficiary named in the contract. The promisee must have an \"intention to benefit\" the third party (though this requirement has an unusual meaning under the law). Although there is a presumption that the promisor intends to promote the interests of the third party in this way, if Andrew contracts with Bethany to have a thousand killer bees delivered to the home of Andrew's worst enemy Charlie, then Charlie is still considered to be the intended beneficiary of that contract. (This would be illegal if the intent was to scare his enemy; contracts are voided based on criminality.)\n\nThere are two common situations involving intended beneficiaries:\n\nOnce the beneficiary's rights have vested, the original parties to the contract are both bound to perform the contract. Any efforts by the promisor or the promisee to rescind or modify the contract at that point are void. Indeed, if the promisee changed his mind and offered to pay the promisor money not to perform, the third party could sue the promisee for tortious interference with the third party's contract rights.\n\nThere are four ways to determine whether the third party beneficiary's rights have vested:\n\nWhere a contract for the benefit of a third party is breached by the non-performance of the promisor, the beneficiary can sue the promisor for the breach just as any party to a contract can sue the other. Because the rights of the third party are defined by the contract created between the promisor and the promisee, the promisor may assert against the beneficiary any defenses to the contract that could be asserted against the promisee. These include all of the traditional basis by which the formation of a contract may be challenged (e.g., lack of capacity, lack of consideration, the statute of frauds) and all of the traditional bases by which non-performance on the contract may be excused (e.g., failure of consideration, impossibility, illegality, frustration of purpose).\n\nBecause the promisor can assert any defenses that could be asserted against the promisee, the beneficiary also becomes liable for counterclaims on the contract that the promisor could establish against the promisee. This liability can never exceed the amount that the promisor owes under the contract. In other words, if the promisor is owed money by the promisee, any award to the third party for the promisor's failure to perform can be reduced by the amount thus owed. If the promisor is owed more than the value of the contract, the beneficiary's recovery will be reduced to nothing (but the third party can never be made to assume an actual debt).\n\nA \"creditor beneficiary\" can sue both the promisor and the promisee, but the beneficiary cannot \"recover\" against both. If the suit is successful against one party to the contract, the other party will be dismissed. Because the creditor beneficiary is receiving the performance of the promisor in order to fulfill the promisee's debt, the failure of the promisor to perform means that the beneficiary can still sue the promisee to recover the \"preexisting debt\". The failure of performance simply means that the debt has never been paid.\n\nA \"donee beneficiary\" can sue the promisor directly to enforce the promise. (\"Seaver v. Ransom\", 224 NY 233, 120 NE 639 [1918]). A donee beneficiary is when a contract is made expressly for giving a gift to a third party, the third party is known as the donee beneficiary. The most common donee beneficiary contract is a life insurance policy.\n\nThe promisee can also sue the promisor for failing to pay the third party beneficiary. Under the common law, such suits were barred, but courts have since determined that the promisee can sue for specific performance of the contract, provided that the beneficiary has not already sued the promisor. Furthermore, if the promisee was in debt to a creditor beneficiary, and the failure of the promisor to perform caused the promisee to be held liable for that debt, the promisee can sue to recover the amount of the debt.\n\n"}
{"id": "2023622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2023622", "title": "Maskarade", "text": "Maskarade\n\nMaskarade (\"Masquerade\") is an opera in three acts by Carl Nielsen to a Danish libretto by Vilhelm Andersen, based on the comedy by Ludvig Holberg. It was first performed on 11 November 1906 at Det Kongelige Teater, Copenhagen. \"Maskarade\" has enjoyed enduring popularity in Denmark where it is considered to be the country's national opera.\n\nNielsen first considered writing an opera based on Holberg's play \"Maskarade\" around the turn of the 20th century. He contacted Vilhelm Andersen (1864–1953) whom he knew from his student days, hoping to persuade him to write a libretto. Andersen initially refused but finally agreed, allowing Nielsen to start composing in May 1904. The Royal Theatre scheduled the opera even before it was finished. In fact, Nielsen only completed the overture on 3 November, a week before the opera's premiere.\n\nThe world premiere of \"Maskarade\" took place at Det Kongelige Teater in Copenhagen on 11 November 1906. It was a resounding success from the start with an exceptional run of 25 performances over its first four months. Reviews in the press were however mixed, the consensus being that the first act was the best, the second was rather weak and the third lacked theatrical clarity although the music was brilliant. Announcement of plans to turn Holberg’s classical comedy into an opera buffa had met with dismay in Danish literary circles, but the opera was immediately popular, more so than the play itself. Now considered to be Denmark's national opera, it has enjoyed lasting success in the country, attributable to its many strophic songs, its dances and its underlying \"old Copenhagen\" atmosphere. In 2006, Denmark's Ministry of Culture named it one of Denmark's twelve greatest musical works.\n\nThe opera did not premiere in the United States until 1972 when it was performed by St. Paul Opera in Minnesota, conducted by Igor Buketoff. The first reported New York performance was by the Bronx Opera Company in 1983. It was performed in the US again in 2014, when it had its Chicago premiere on 18 January at the Vittum Theater performed by the Vox3 Collective. \"Maskarade\" received a major international revival in 2005 in a new production by David Pountney which was performed at the Bregenz Festival in August of that year and travelled to the Royal Opera House the following month for its first performance by the company. The opera had been previously performed in the UK at London's Morley College in 1983 and in Leeds by Opera North in 1990.\n\nDespite its popularity in his home country, Nielsen was not entirely satisfied with the work, citing structural weakness in the final two acts; but he never got around to revising the work. The overture and the ballet from the third act (\"Dance of the Cockerels\") are performed frequently, as noted by the Carl Nielsen Society, which states that the overture is one of Nielsen's most widely performed works at concerts in Europe and North America.\n\nThe story revolves around Leander and Leonora, two young people who meet fortuitously at a masquerade ball, swear their undying love for each other and exchange rings. The following day, Leander tells his valet Henrik of his newfound love. He becomes distraught when reminded by Henrik that his parents have betrothed him in marriage to Leonora, the daughter of Leonard from remote Slagelse. Things get complicated when Leonard himself, whose daughter Leonora is the other part of this arrangement, comes complaining to Leander’s father that Leonora is in love with someone she met at the masquerade the previous night. In the third act, all is resolved when the various parties slip off to the night's masquerade, where all is revealed to everyone's mutual satisfaction.\n\nAs part of the celebrations of the 150th anniversary of Carl Nielsen's birth, the Royal Theatre in Copenhagen staged eleven well-received performances of \"Maskarade\" from March to May 2015. The Royal Danish Opera's schedule for 2015 includes performances of a chamber version of the opera in three other locations in Denmark from mid-July to early September. The Maskarade Overture has been included in the first night of Britain's Promenade Concerts on 17 July 2015.\n\n\nFurther sources\n\n"}
{"id": "2023625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2023625", "title": "Sanyo Electric Railway", "text": "Sanyo Electric Railway\n\n\n, the company owns and operates the following train types.\n\n\nNew three-car 6000 series EMUs were introduced on 27 April 2016.\n\nSanyo also operates bus service in Kobe (mainly Tarumi-ku) and Akashi.\n\n"}
{"id": "2023628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2023628", "title": "Riding Mountain National Park", "text": "Riding Mountain National Park\n\nRiding Mountain National Park () is a national park in Manitoba, Canada. The park sits atop the Manitoba Escarpment. Consisting of a protected area , the forested parkland stands in sharp contrast to the surrounding prairie farmland. It was designated a national park because it protects three different ecosystems that converge in the area; grasslands, upland boreal and eastern deciduous forests. It is most easily reached by Highway 10 which passes through the park. The south entrance is at the townsite of Wasagaming, which is the only commercial centre within the park boundaries.\n\nA trading post was first established on Lake Dauphin north of present-day Riding Mountain National Park by the Hudson Bay Company in 1741. Pierre de la Verendrye and sons explored the region and traded with First Nations, who hunted and fished in the area for many years. In 1858 Henry Youle Hind, a professor of Biology and Chemistry at the University of Toronto, became one of the first Canadian explorers to reach the area now encompassed by Riding Mountain National Park during his surveying of present-day Manitoba and Saskatchewan.\n\nHind described \"pitching trails which lead from one part of the area to the other, following ridges, the only dry areas around\" upon his ascent from Dauphin Lake. Hind, who travelled with several assistants and First Nations peoples, also described a final ascent upon Riding Mountain as \"abrupt, consisting of a steep escarpment of drift clay and boulders covered with white spruce, birch and aspen.\" His early explorations helped inform the Government of Canada of the ecological diversity and potential of the Riding Mountain region.\n\nIn 1895, of land in Riding Mountain was designated as a timber reserve by the Department of the Interior, due to the quality of resources available to locals. The \"Dominion Forest Reserve Act\", passed in 1906, and the \"Dominion Forest Reserve and Parks Act\", passed in 1911, were among the first legally binding protection of the area. In 1906 the superintendent of forestry monitored permits for cutting timber, which were intended only for settlers of the region. At the same time, it was recognized that trees needed to be protected due to their aesthetic properties and ability to hinder floods and erosion.\n\nFirst Nation groups in the area include the Keeseekoowenin and Rolling River groups.\n\nOn October 27, 1927, a meeting of representatives from the surrounding communities were called to the Court House in Neepawa, Manitoba to discuss a proposal to designate the Riding Mountain Forest Reserve a national park. Led by J. N. McFadden, the meeting aimed to highlight to residents the differences between a forest reserve and national park. One major difference is that its natural resources would be completely protected from development. Since 1918 reforestation had proceeded in the park, and it was planned as a destination for tourists to continue to invest money in the local economy. Although some wanted a national park to be located in the Whiteshell, a majority voted in favour of locating it in Riding Mountain. As a consequence of this decision logging operations were halted and the value of Duck Mountain increased.\n\nThe forest reserve was set aside as a national park in 1929, officially declared Riding Mountain National Park on May 30, 1933. The park opened to visitors on July 26 of that year, with Manitoba Lieutenant-Governor James D. McGregor unveiling a cairn and giving a speech at a dedication ceremony. In attendance were Manitoba Premier John Bracken, Minister of Natural Resources J. S. McDiarmid, and Thomas G. Murphy, Minister of the Interior. According to the Winnipeg Evening Tribune, over one thousand vehicles were registered at various park entrances and over four thousand people had been admitted inside the park forty-five minutes after McGregor arrived. Ten thousand people attended the ceremony, where the Clear Lake site was designated Wasagaming. Much of the public infrastructure in Riding Mountain National Park was created during the 1930s by labourers participating in Canada's great depression relief programs. Ten relief camps were supervised by James Wardle. Funding for these relief programs was provided by the 1930 \"Unemployment Relief Act\" and the 1934 \"Public Works Construction Act\". In 1932 most relief workers were British and over half were from Winnipeg. At this time the -storey interpretive centre and several other buildings were built of log, many featuring a rustic architectural style. A lot of this early construction survives.\n\nIn the early days of Riding Mountain National Park, Parks Branch Commissioner James Harkin offered Archibald Belaney (September 18, 1888 – April 13, 1938) a job in the region. Belaney, who adopted the name Grey Owl when he took upon a First Nations identity as an adult, was a writer and became one of Canada's first conservationists. On April 17, 1931, Grey Owl arrived with his two beavers at a secluded lake several kilometres north of Wasagaming which had been selected by the park staff. He spent six months living in a cabin in Riding Mountain National park studying and working with wildlife, including two beavers named Jelly Roll and Rawhide. His main goal in the park was to re-establish beaver colonies in areas where they were exterminated. Riding Mountain National Park was found to be an unsuitable habitat for the beavers, as a summer drought resulted in the lake water level sinking, and becoming stagnant. Both the beavers and Belaney were unhappy with the situation, causing Belaney to search, with the support of the Dominion Parks Branch, for better living conditions. He later relocated to Prince Albert National Park, where there was a greater sized waterway and a lower risk of the lakes freezing to the bottom in the winter. Despite his eventual departure, he is regarded as a legend and major historical figure because of the influence he had on Riding Mountain National Park. The park now has an abundant beaver population partially because of his efforts. He also embraced his public persona during his stay at the park. His living quarters, now known as \"Grey Owl's Cabin\", still stand to this day and are a popular tourist attraction.\n\nDuring World War II Riding Mountain National Park was home to the Whitewater labour camp for German prisoners-of-war. Operating from 1943 to 1945, the camp was built on the northeast shore of Whitewater Lake, approximately 300 kilometres (190 mi) north-west of Winnipeg. The camp consisted of fifteen buildings and housed 440 to 450 prisoners of war. The decision to have a prisoner of war labour project in Riding Mountain National Park was the result of a fuelwood shortage in the winter of 1942 and 1943. To free up men for the war effort it was decided that prisoners of war would be employed. Following the end of the war and the achievement of a fuelwood surplus, the camp closed in late 1945. In 1945 an advertisement appeared in the Tribune soliciting the sale of the government-owned buildings. The camp has since been dismantled.\n\nIn 1986 the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) designated Riding Mountain National Park and the surrounding area Riding Mountain Biosphere Reserve, as part of its Man and the Biosphere Programme. The Biosphere Reserve is a non-profit volunteer organization managed by representatives from the surrounding area. Prior to its creation, The Riding Mountain Liaison Committee (RMNLC) was entrusted to oversee the integration of this area and surrounding communities, eleven of which participated in a consultation process. Upon establishment, the Biosphere Reserve included 18 municipalities, several of which were merged in 2015 as a result of the Manitoba \"Municipal Amalgamation Act\" enacted in 2013 by the Manitoba provincial government. A Biosphere Reserve Management Committee (BRMC) was created to oversee the area. Biosphere Reserve land outside of Riding Mountain National Park is both privately and publicly owned and managed.\n\nOver the years an increased emphasis was placed on wilderness conservation and commercial expansion within Riding Mountain National Park was limited. In 1965 the \"Winnipeg Tribune\" reported half a million visitors were entering the park annually. In 1970 Queen Elizabeth II, Prince Philip, Prince Charles and Princess Anne visited the park during their tour of Manitoba. In 1983 on the fiftieth anniversary of the park's opening a monument was erected south of the interpretive centre. In 1991 land removed from the Keeseekoowenin Objiway First Nation in 1930 by the Department of the Interior was returned to them after a land claim. In 2013, Riding Mountain National Park celebrated the 80th anniversary of the creation and opening of the park. It was the first National Park in Manitoba, and one of the first in western Canada. Anniversary celebrations included a re-enactment of the official park opening ceremony, along with year-long arts, culture and wildlife programs.\n\nRiding Mountain National Park rises more than over the surrounding Manitoba farmland. Riding Mountain is the highest point in the region, bordered by the Manitoba Escarpment in the east, the Valley River and Wilson River in the North, and a valley in the west. Further to the west is the Saskatchewan Plain.\n\nDuring the last ice age most of the vegetation in the Riding Mountain region was eliminated, and it remained this way after the retreat of the glaciers 12,500 years ago. The Riding Mountain upland and surrounding plains and Manitoba Escarpment were mostly carved in the Tertiary era, but the ice sheets of the Pleistocene period modified the drainage and appearance of the land. Only the movement of the last ice sheet in this period left a visible effect on the features of the region. About 11,500 years ago a spruce dominated forest began to emerge in its place, with some of the vegetation being ash, juniper, sedges, buffaloberry, and trembling aspen. After this time the climate was dry, and the percentage of spruce decreased. During the Holocene climatic optimum up until 6500 years ago the amount of herbs, shrubs and grasses in the park increased. At the end of this time beaked hazelnut appeared and the amount of bur oak increased, with the climate becoming cooler and moister. Up to 2,500 years ago the amount of grassland species in general decreased and boreal forests migrated into the Riding Mountain region. It was at this moment that ecosystems began to resemble those of today, with species such as tamarack, fir, alder, pine and spruce becoming more common. Several streams that run through the park have headwaters in Riding Mountain's lakes. Clear Lake's water comes from underground springs rather than from streams. \n\nThe climate in the Riding Mountain region is similar to that of other regions of southwestern Manitoba. Under the Köppen classification it has a continental climate. It includes grasslands, upland boreal and eastern deciduous forest ecosystems. The park has hot summers and cold winters, with annual rainfall ranging from 40.6 to 50.8 cm. Around 80 percent of rainfall occurs between the months of April and October, with June being the wettest month of the year. The increased precipitation during the summer months is due to the large number of lakes and wetlands within the region as well as turbulence caused by the surrounding Manitoba escarpment. During the winter at an elevation of about 732 meters the mean snowfall is 127 centimetres. At a lower altitude of about 335 meters the snowfall drops to 25.4 centimetres. The town site Wasagaming has an average July temperature of 16.5 °C and an average January temperature of -19.7 °C. In general there is a lower amount of humid days within the park than in the surrounding prairie region. Wasagaming has lighter winds than the rest of the park due to the surrounding forest cover.\n\nRiding Mountain National Park is accessible by car and bus from two municipalities. Dauphin lies 13 kilometres to the north and Brandon lies to the 95 kilometres south, connected by Manitoba Highway 10 with Wasagaming. Both of these cities have commercial airports, as does the community of Erickson. Manitoba Highway 19 enters the park through the escarpment region from the east. A permit is needed to enter Riding Mountain National Park by vehicle, and can be purchased at the park gates. In 1992 the East Entrance was designated a National Historic Site of Canada in recognition of its historic and rustic architectural design. The gate was designed by Shamus Marshall, a renowned Canadian architect.\n\nElk, porcupines, coyotes, moose, timber wolves, beavers, lynxes, white-tailed deer, snowshoe hares, and cougars are among the animals that roam around this park. Common loons and Canada geese are some of Clear Lake's bird inhabitants. In total there have been 233 bird species observed in the park. The park also boasts one of the largest populations of black bears in North America. The black bear is one of 60 species of mammals inhabiting the park. There is also a wild bison enclosure located near Lake Audy. 20 bison were originally reintroduced from Alberta in 1931. As of 2016, Lake Audy supports a population of about 40 captive bison.\n\nRiding Mountain National Park is also well known for its wildflowers and wide range of unique vegetation, most of which is not seen anywhere else in the prairie regions of Canada. There are 669 species of plants in the park. Vegetation common to the region includes aspen poplar, balsam poplar, white birch or paper birch, white spruce, balsam fir, jack pine, black spruce, tamarack, American elm, Manitoba maple, and bur oak.\n\nFor all recreation activities within the park, it is advisable to contact Riding Mountain National Park administration for information and to acquire necessary permits.\n\nCommunity events held in Wasagaming include the Riding Mountain National Park Film Festival and an annual LGBTQ Pride weekend.\n\nRiding Mountain National Park has over of trails, with surfaces ranging from being grassy to gravelled. Backpacking trails include Ochre River Trail, South Escarpment Trail, and the Tilson Lake Trail. The Central, Baldy Lake and Strathclair trails are easy cycling trails while the Packhorse, Jet and Baldy Hill trails are more difficult On most back-country trails horse use is allowed, equipment being provided by local outfitters. During the winter months trails are open to cross-country skiing, which are not patrolled daily.\n\nOchre River Trail is situated deep within Riding Mountain National Park, beginning just off Highway #10 and then winding its way through thick forest down to a parking lot on the north-eastern boundary of the park. Highlights along this trail include scenic campsites, river views, stream crossings, and a serene forest setting. The trail is used by backpackers, bikers, horseback riders, and cross country skiers. Skiers can make an over-night trek from the South Trailhead to Cairn’s Cabin (about 800m off the trail near the Ochre River Campsite) for the night and then back out again the following day. This cabin must be booked and paid for in advance. This trail has not been maintained since September 29, 2011.\n\nThe Tilson Lake Loop is a multipurpose trail located in the western portion of the park, as that side of the park is not as heavily forested as the eastern side, and provides views over open meadows and rolling hills for hikers, horseback riders and bikers. The trail is 2-day loop and takes hikers an average of 11 hours to hike, but which can be joined up with some of the nearby trails to create a longer trip. The trail has few markings, but is wide and difficult to lose, and there are large, green signs clearly marking all junctions along the way. There are two campsites on the trail which have privies, fire pits, food storage bins, firewood, picnic tables and plenty of space for tents. It is possible to snowshoe this trail in the winter, but access can be difficult after heavy snow fall. This trail has not been maintained since August 11, 2011.\n\nNational Park Fishing Licenses are required for fishing within park boundaries. There are many clean, freshwater lakes within the park including Clear Lake, Lake Audy, Moon Lake and Whirlpool Lake among others. Walleye, white fish and perch are found in Clear Lake, and a limited number of rainbow and brook trout can be found in Lake Katherine and Deep Lake. Ice fishing is allowed on Clear Lake during the winter months. Snowmobiling is allowed on Clear Lake for the aforementioned activity only.\n\nClear Lake and Lake Audy have boat launches, both of which can be used for motorized boats. Moon Lake can also be used for this purpose though equipment must be carried 300 metres. On Whirlpool Lake, Deep Lake, Lake Katherine, and back-country lakes, only non-motorized boats can be used. All personal water crafts are banned within Riding Mountain National Park. Only four-stroke and direct injected two-stroke equipped motor boats are permitted on Clear Lake. Boats equipped with other motors are not permitted to use the lake for environmental reasons. The ban is enforced by Parks Canada and the RCMP.\n\nThe lakes of Riding Mountain provide excellent conditions for canoeing and kayaking. At times, Whirlpool River and Jackfish Creek can be used for canoeing and kayaking when the water is high enough, usually after heavy rains or spring runoff.\n\nClear Lake is used by many people for sailing because of its relatively large size, and wind patterns. Parking and assembly areas are located at the Wasagaming boat launch.\n\nThe Clear Lake main beach at Wasagaming, one of the park's most popular swimming locations, is equipped with washrooms, change rooms, and outdoor showers. Scuba diving is also possible at Clear Lake, with the deepest point in the lake approximately 34.7 m (114 feet). Other lakes used for swimming are Lake Katherine, Lake Audy and Moon Lake. Most of the other lakes in the park have muddy bottoms, so swimming is difficult but possible.\n\nWasagaming campground is one of the largest in Manitoba, and is a full service campground located near the Wasagaming townsite and Clear Lake. All sites in the Wasagaming campground contain a fire box, picnic table, and access to washrooms at the unserviced camp sites, and full service sites are equipped with all modern amenities including sewer, electricity, water, picnic table, and fire box. Other campgrounds suitable for car camping are located at Lake Audy, Moon Lake and Deep Lake. Tent camping is available at all campgrounds within the park. Whirlpool Lake campground is designated as a tenting only campground. There are also 22 wilderness campsites located in the back country of the park. These sites are equipped with firewood, pit privies, picnic tables and food storage containers.\nThere are 15 picnic sites in the park, usually along major roads and trails, such as Wasgaming, Lake Audy, and Moon Lake. These sites are equipped with barbecue pits, pit privies, and most have access to drinking water.\n\nClear Lake Golf Course is within park boundaries along the shores of Clear Lake. The course has received high ratings from multiple North American golf publications.\n\nThere are six professional tennis courts in the park at the Wasagaming townsite.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2023639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2023639", "title": "Peter Lonard", "text": "Peter Lonard\n\nPeter Lawrence Lonard (born 17 July 1967) is an Australian professional golfer who has played mainly on the U.S.-based PGA Tour. He credits fellow Australian Greg Norman as his inspiration.\n\nLonard was born at Epping, Sydney.\n\nLonard turned professional in 1989 and began his career on the PGA Tour of Australasia. He played on the European Tour in 1991 and 1992, where he had very moderate results. He was sidelined for nearly 18 months in 1993–94 after contracting Ross River Fever, a mosquito-carried virus which caused damage to his eyes. He worked as a club professional at Sydney's prestigious Oatlands Golf Club for three years before returning to tournament golf, topping the PGA Tour of Australasia Order of Merit in 1996/97. He returned to the European Tour in 1997 and has performed steadily with a best Order of Merit placing of 18th in 2002.\n\nLonard joined the United States-based PGA Tour in 2002 and settled in well, winning over $1 million in his first season. He won the PGA Tour of Australasia's Order of Merit for a second time in 2003. His first win in the U.S. came at the 2005 MCI Heritage. He has featured in the top 50 of the Official World Golf Ranking. In 2009 he finished outside the top 150 of the money list and lost his PGA Tour card. He has mainly focused on the PGA Tour of Australasia and Web.com Tour since losing his PGA Tour card.\n\nLonard was a member of the International Team at the Presidents Cup in 2003 and 2005.\n\nAfter turning 50, Lonard played in the Senior Open Championship in 2017 and finished T3.\n\nPGA Tour of Australasia playoff record (2–1–1)\n\n\nCUT = missed the half-way cut<br>\n\"T\" = tied\n\n\nCUT = missed the halfway cut<br>\n\"T\" indicates a tie for a place\n\nQF, R16, R32, R64 = Round in which player lost in match play<br>\n\"T\" = Tied\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2023640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2023640", "title": "Pakistan Social Democratic Party", "text": "Pakistan Social Democratic Party\n\nThe Pakistan Social Democratic Party is a political party in Pakistan. In 2002, with a wristwatch as the party's symbol on the ballot, it fielded one candidate in the National Assembly elections and the regional assembly elections, but won no seats. In 2004 the Electoral Commission asked the party, and ten other parties, to have its submitted statement of account audited by a chartered accountant and re-submitted. (34 parties had submitted no statements of account at all, and faced disqualification.)\n\nPakistan Social Democratic Party is run by Mujeeb ur Rehman Kiani, a seasoned lawyer and Chairman of the Party, and Irfan Kausar, Deputy Director.\n\nThe comprehensive manifesto of the party was printed and circulated during its years in active politics. Its founder is author of a publication named 'Responsible Politics', widely sold during the time of its publication. It laid down the predictions and expectations of on coming politics in Pakistan.\n\n"}
{"id": "2023642", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2023642", "title": "Westview High School (San Diego)", "text": "Westview High School (San Diego)\n\nWestview High School is a public comprehensive high school located in Torrey Highlands, a community of San Diego, California in the United States. It is part of the Poway Unified School District.\n\nWestview uses a 4 by 4 block schedule for each school year. Under this system, the school year is divided into four quarters, as opposed to other schools' semester and trimester systems. Each student takes up to four classes per quarter, allowing a student to complete up to sixteen classes each year—four classes more than under a semester schedule with six periods (Rancho Bernardo) and one more than under a trimester schedule with five periods (Mt. Carmel and Del Norte). Classes at Westview last an average of 79 minutes a day.\n\nWestview is accredited by the Schools Commission of the Western Association of Schools and Colleges. Its CEEB school code is #052-986.\n\nWestview is divided into three \"hubs,\" each with a separate administration system and cadre of homeroom teachers, designed to cultivate intraschool competition and camaraderie. The combined staff consists of 85 teachers, 4 administrators, 4 counselors, 2 librarians, 1 school psychologist, and 39 support staff.\n\nThere have been instances of inappropriate contact between staff and students. Reporting has shown inadequate policies and investigations by school and district staff in preventing such interactions.\n\nAs of the 2011–2012 school year, 2,372 students were enrolled at the school. Of these students, 567 of them were enrolled in 9th grade, 620 in 10th, 581 in 11th, and 604 in 12th. The school's student body is 51.3% White, 34.9% Asian/Filipino, 8.6% Hispanic or Latino, 2.1% African American, 0.4% Pacific Islander, 0.1% Native American, and 2.5% Other.\n\nOf the 586 graduates of the school in 2011, 94% decided to attend college. Of these, 73% went to 4-year colleges and the remaining 27% to 2-year colleges.\n\nA 4x4 block learning schedule is implemented at Westview, meaning that over the course of a year a student will take up to eight courses, or four each semester. Each course is broken into two nine-week quarters each worth five credits, or the equivalent of a semester at most high schools that go by the semester system. In addition to the four daily classes, there are various other periods such as Homeroom, Sustained Silent Homework (SSH), and Wolverine Time, a tutorial period, which occur on Tuesdays and Thursdays. School begins at 8:05 AM on all days except Wednesday, when it begins at 9:15 AM. School ends at 3:10 PM except on \"minimum days\" on final exam dates where only half the classes exist.\n\nGraduation from Westview requires meeting PUSD's course requirements. They include a biological science course, a civics and economics course, a fine arts course, two math courses (at least one math course must be taken in each of 9th and 10th grade), a physical science course, one English course in each grade, and one course in each of U.S. history and world history. In addition to the required ninth-grade physical education requirement, one other physical education course is needed. Though not required for graduation, students must also take at least two foreign language courses in the same language in order to be able to enter a state university. In addition, all students must take at least 8.5 elective courses to graduate, which can be satisfied by completing extra courses in the subject areas above, or by completing designated elective courses. Students also need to pass the California High School Exit Exam.\n\nGrade point averages are computed with each quarter receiving either an A, B, C, D, or F, which correspond to 4, 3, 2, 1, and 0, respectively. In addition to one Honors course, all Advanced Placement courses are assigned values of 5, 4, 3, 1, and 0, for these grades. A grade of \"F\" in any course means a failing grade, and as such will not qualify for graduation credits, and if the course is a required course, it must be retaken and passed in order to qualify. A grade of \"D\" in any course that has it will qualify for graduation credits, but will not count as having been passed for entry into state universities, and as such if a student who wishes to enter a state university after graduation earns this grade, they must retake the course and earn at least a \"C\". However, not all courses include a grade of D, as some only go down to C and consider anything lower as an F; in such courses, at least a C is necessary to pass the course and earn graduation credits.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2023643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2023643", "title": "Hans Richter", "text": "Hans Richter\n\nHans Richter may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2023648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2023648", "title": "Inequality Reexamined", "text": "Inequality Reexamined\n\nInequality Reexamined is a 1992 book by the economist Amartya Sen. In the book Sen evaluates the different perspectives of the general notion of inequality, focusing mainly on his well-known capability approach. The author argues that inequality is a central notion to every social theory that has stood on time. For only if this basic feature is satisfied can a social theory which advocates a set of social arrangements be plausible. Taken the inequality ingredient for granted, the crucial question becomes: inequality of what? Sen answers this basic question by advocating his preferred notion of equality which is based on the capability for Functions.\n\nThere are two kinds of Functions: Elementary and Social. Elementary Functions include being in good health, nourished, sheltered. More complex are Social Functions, which include having self-respect, taking part in the life of the community etc. The Achievement of an individual is the set of these realized Functions. Capability refers to the real options that someone has in order to pursue the subjective Functions they prefer most. Nevertheless, inequalities related to class, gender, communities hinder the extent of human freedom and thus decrease our ability to function. That is why a good society ought to mitigate such discrimination, promoting people's freedom which, is the most valuable element of a satisfactory life.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2023649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2023649", "title": "One Night in Time", "text": "One Night in Time\n\nOne Night in Time is an unofficial release of studio recordings from British singer-songwriter Donovan. It was distributed through the fanzine \"Donovan's Friends\" in 1993 on cassette tape.\n\nAfter his 1984 album \"Lady of the Stars\" failed to meet success in both the US and UK, Donovan temporarily retired from recording studio albums. In 1990, Donovan's 1960's albums were reissued on CD for the first time. His 1990 live album \"Rising\" and the 1992 Epic Records boxed set \"\" were also bringing Donovan's music back into record stores.\n\nAlthough this renewed interest in Donovan's music grew over the next few years, in 1993 he was still without a record label in the US or UK. The album was only released on cassette tape.\n\nAll tracks by Donovan Leitch, except where noted.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2023654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2023654", "title": "Lucy, Lady Duff-Gordon", "text": "Lucy, Lady Duff-Gordon\n\nLucy Christiana, Lady Duff-Gordon (née Sutherland; 13 June 1863 – 20 April 1935) was a leading British fashion designer in the late 19th and early 20th centuries who worked under the professional name Lucile.\n\nThe first British-based designer to achieve international acclaim, Lucy Duff-Gordon was a widely acknowledged innovator in couture styles as well as in fashion industry public relations. In addition to originating the \"mannequin parade\", a precursor to the modern fashion show, and training the first professional models, she launched liberating slit skirts and low necklines, popularized less restrictive corsets, and promoted alluring and pared-down lingerie.\n\nOpening branches of her London house, Lucile Ltd, in Chicago, New York City, and Paris, her business became the first global couture brand, dressing a trend-setting clientele of royalty, nobility, and stage and film personalities. Duff-Gordon is also remembered as a survivor of the sinking of the RMS \"Titanic\" in 1912, and as the losing party in the precedent-setting 1917 contract law case of \"Wood v. Lucy, Lady Duff-Gordon\", in which Judge Benjamin N. Cardozo wrote the opinion for New York's highest court, the New York Court of Appeals, upholding a contract between Duff-Gordon and her advertising agent that assigned the agent the sole right to market her name. It was the first case of its kind, clothes labeled and sold at a lowered cost in a cheaper market under an expensive \"brand name\".\n\nThe daughter of civil engineer Douglas Sutherland (1838–1865) and his Anglo-French-Canadian wife Elinor Saunders (1841–1937), Lucy Christiana Sutherland was born in London, England, and raised in Guelph, Ontario, Canada, after her father's death from typhoid fever. When her mother remarried in 1871 to the bachelor David Kennedy (d. 1889), Lucy moved with them and her sister, the future novelist Elinor Glyn, to Saint Helier on the Isle of Jersey. Lucy acquired her love of fashion through dressing her collection of dolls, by studying gowns worn by women in family paintings, and by later making clothes for herself and Elinor. Returning to Jersey, after a visit to relatives in England in 1875, Lucy and Elinor survived the wreck of their ship when it ran aground in a gale.\n\nIn 1884, Lucy married for the first time, to James Stuart Wallace, with whom she had a child, Esme (1885–1973; later wife of the 2nd Earl of Halsbury and mother of Anthony, 3rd Earl of Halsbury). Wallace was an alcoholic and regularly unfaithful, and Lucy sought consolation in love affairs, including a long relationship with the famous surgeon Sir Morell Mackenzie. The Wallaces separated circa 1890, and Lucy started divorce proceedings in 1893. In 1900, Lucy Sutherland Wallace married a Scottish baronet, landowner and sportsman Sir Cosmo Duff-Gordon.\n\nIn order to support herself and her daughter after the end of her first marriage, Lucy Duff-Gordon began working as a dressmaker from home. In 1893, she opened Maison Lucile at 24 Old Burlington St., in the heart of the fashionable West End of London, having worked for a year previously from her mother's flat at 25 Davies Street. In 1897, Lucy Duff-Gordon opened a larger shop at 17 Hanover Square, Westminster, before a further move (c. 1903–04) to 14 George Street, Oxford. In 1903, the business was incorporated as \"Lucile Ltd\" and the following year moved to 23 Hanover Square, where it operated for the next 20 years. Duff Gordon was eventually bankrupted after she revealed in the American press that she was not designing much of the clothing that was attributed to her name. She spent her later years selling imported clothing and smaller collections in a succession of unsuccessful small 'boutiques'.\n\nLucile Ltd served a wealthy clientele including aristocracy, royalty, and theatre stars. The business expanded, with salons opening in New York City in 1910, Paris in 1911, and Chicago in 1915, making it the first leading couture house with full-scale branches in three countries.\n\nLucile was most famous for its lingerie, tea gowns, and evening wear. Its luxuriously layered and draped garments in soft fabrics of blended pastel colors, often accentuated with sprays of hand-made silk flowers, became its hallmark. However, Lucile also offered simple, smart tailored suits and daywear. The dress illustrated at right typifies the classically draped style often found in Lucile designs. Lucy Duff-Gordon originally designed it in Paris, for Lucile Ltd's spring 1913 collection, and later specially adapted it for London socialite Heather Firbank and other well-known clients, including actress Kitty Gordon and dancer Lydia Kyasht of the Ballets Russes. The example illustrated was worn by Miss Firbank and is preserved in the Victoria and Albert Museum.\n\nLucy Duff-Gordon is also widely credited with training the first professional fashion models (called \"mannequins\") as well as staging the first runway or \"catwalk\" style shows. These affairs were theatrically inspired, invitation-only, tea-time presentations, complete with a stage, curtains, mood-setting lighting, music from a string band, souvenir gifts, and programmes.\n\nAnother innovation in the presentation of her collections was what she called her \"emotional gowns\". These dresses were given descriptive names, influenced by literature, history, popular culture and her interest in the psychology and personality of her clients.\n\nSome well-known clients, whose clothing influenced many when it appeared in early films, on stage, and in the press, included: Irene Castle, Lily Elsie, Gertie Millar, Gaby Deslys, Billie Burke, and Mary Pickford. Lucile costumed numerous theatrical productions, including the London première of Franz Lehár's operetta \"The Merry Widow\" (1907), the \"Ziegfeld Follies\" revues on Broadway (1915–21), and the D. W. Griffith silent movie \"Way Down East\" (1920). Lucile creations were also frequently featured in Pathé and Gaumont newsreels of the 1910s and 20s, and Lucy Duff-Gordon appeared in her own weekly spot in the British newsreel \"Around the Town\" (c. 1919–21).\n\nEarly Lucile Ltd sketches, archived at the Victoria and Albert Museum, provide evidence that in 1904 the salon employed at least one sketch artist to record Lucy Duff-Gordon's designs for in-house use. As demands grew on her time, especially in the United States during World War I, she was aided by sketch artists Robert Kalloch, Roger Bealle, Gilbert Clarke, Howard Greer, Shirley Barker, Travis Banton, and Edward Molyneux, who created ideas based on the \"Lucile look\". In her memoir, Lucy Duff-Gordon credited her corps of assistants for their contributions to the success of the New York branch of Lucile Ltd. Many of these assistants' drawings were published in the press and signed \"Lucile\", though occasionally the signature of the artist, such as Molyneux, appeared. It was general practice for couture houses to use professional artists to execute drawings of designs as they were being created, as well as of the artist's own ideas for each season's output and for individual clients. These drawings were overseen by Lucy Duff-Gordon, who often critiqued them, adding notes, instructions, dates, and sometimes her own signature or initials, indicating she approved the design.\n\nLike many couturiers, Lucy Duff-Gordon designed principally on the human form. Her surviving personal sketchbooks indicate her limited technical ability as a sketch artist, but a skill at recording colour. Surviving Lucile Ltd sketches reveal numerous artists of varying talent levels, and these are often mis-attributed to herself. Howard Greer admitted in his autobiography that the sketches he and his colleagues executed were often confused interpretations of the Lucile style that did not match their employer's vision. Moreover, he claimed customers were not always pleased by the actual dresses created from the sketches he and the other assistants submitted.\n\nUnprecedented for a leading couturière, Lucy Duff-Gordon promoted her collections journalistically. In addition to a weekly syndicated fashion page for the Hearst newspaper syndicate (1910–22), she wrote monthly columns for \"Harper's Bazaar\" and \"Good Housekeeping\" (1912–22). A Hearst writer ghost wrote the newspaper page after 1918, but the designer herself penned the \"Good Housekeeping\" and \"Harper's Bazaar\" features throughout their duration, although the responsibility of producing a regular piece proved difficult, and she missed several deadlines. Lucile fashions also appeared regularly in \"Vogue\", \"Femina\", \"Les Modes\", \"L'art et la Mode\", and other leading fashion magazines (1910–22). Along with Hearst publications, Lucile contributed to \"Vanity Fair\", \"Dress\", \"The Illustrated London News\", \"The London Magazine\", \"Pearson's Magazine\", and \"Munsey's\".\n\nIn addition to her career as a couturière, costumier, journalist, and pundit, Lucy Duff-Gordon took significant advantage of opportunities for commercial endorsement, lending her name to advertising for brassieres, perfume, shoes, and other luxury apparel and beauty items. Among the most adventurous of her licensing ventures were a two-season, lower-priced, mail-order fashion line for Sears, Roebuck & Co. (1916–17), which promoted her clothing in special de luxe catalogues, and a contract to design interiors for limousines and town cars for the Chalmers Motor Co., later Chrysler Corporation (1917).\n\nIn 1912, Lucy Duff-Gordon traveled to America on business in connection with the New York branch of Lucile Ltd. She and her husband, Sir Cosmo, booked first class passage on the ocean liner under the alias \"Mr. and Mrs. Morgan\". Her secretary, Laura Mabel Francatelli, nicknamed \"Franks\", accompanied the couple.\n\nOn 14 April, at 11:40 pm the \"Titanic\" struck an iceberg and began to sink. During the evacuation, the Duff-Gordons and Francatelli escaped in Lifeboat No. 1. Although the boat was designed to hold 40 people, it was lowered with only 12 people aboard, seven of them male crew members.\n\nSome time after the \"Titanic\" sank, while afloat in Lifeboat No. 1, Lucy Duff-Gordon reportedly commented to her secretary, \"There is your beautiful nightdress gone.\" A fireman, annoyed by her comment, replied that while the couple could replace their property, he and the other crew members had lost everything in the sinking. Sir Cosmo then offered each of the men £5 (equivalent to £ in ) to aid them until they received new assignments. While on the RMS \"Carpathia\", the Cunard liner that rescued \"Titanic\"'s survivors, Sir Cosmo presented the men from Lifeboat No. 1 with checks drawn on his bank, Coutts. This action later spawned gossip that the Duff-Gordons had bribed their lifeboat's crew not to return to save swimmers out of fear the vessel would be swamped.\n\nThese rumors were fueled by the tabloid press in the United States and, eventually, in the United Kingdom. On May 17, Sir Cosmo Duff-Gordon testified at the London hearings of the British Board of Trade inquiry into the disaster. On May 20, Lady Duff-Gordon took the stand. The couple's testimony attracted the largest crowds during the inquiry.\n\nWhile Sir Cosmo faced tough criticism during cross-examination, his wife had it slightly easier. Dressed in black, with a large, veiled hat, she told the court she remembered little about what happened in the lifeboat on the night of the sinking, due to seasickness, and she could not recall specific conversations. Lawyers did not seem to have pressed her very hard. Lucy Duff-Gordon noted that for the rest of her husband's life he was brokenhearted over the negative coverage by the \"yellow press\", during his cross-examination at the inquiry. The final report by the inquiry determined that the Duff-Gordons did not deter the crew from any attempt at rescue through bribery or any other method of coercion.\n\nIn 2012 a box of documents and letters concerning the Titanic sinking belonging to the Duff-Gordons was rediscovered at the London office of Veale Wasbrough Vizards, the legal firm that merged with Tweedies, which had represented the couple. Among the papers was an inventory of the possessions Lucy Duff Gordon had lost, the total value listed as £3,208 3s 6d. One letter detailed what she wore when leaving the ship: two dressing gowns \"for warmth\", a muff, and her \"motor hat\". (A faded grey silk kimono with typical Fortuny-style black cord edging, for some time thought to have been worn by her that night, is now understood to have belonged to her daughter Esme, Countess of Halsbury, as its distinctive print dates the item to post World War I.) An apron said to have been worn by Francatelli can be seen at the Maritime Museum in Liverpool, and her life-jacket was sold, along with correspondence about her experiences in the disaster, at Christie's auction house, London, in 2007.\n\nThe \"Titanic\" episode is one of the most prominent aspects of Lucy Duff-Gordon's life, thanks partly to motion pictures. The films, however, portrayed her without great attention to accuracy. She has been portrayed by Harriette Johns in \"A Night to Remember\" (1958); by Rosalind Ayres in James Cameron's epic \"Titanic\" (1997); and by Sylvestra Le Touzel in the British miniseries \"Titanic\" (2012). She is also a key character in the novel \"The Dressmaker\", by Kate Alcott, which portrays both the sinking of the Titanic and the negative publicity that followed for the Duff-Gordons.\n\nLucy Duff-Gordon had another close call three years after surviving the \"Titanic\", when she booked passage aboard the final voyage of the RMS \"Lusitania\". It was reported in the press that she cancelled her trip due to illness. The \"Lusitania\" was sunk by a German torpedo on 7 May 1915.\n\nIn 1917, Lucy Duff-Gordon lost the New York Court of Appeals case of \"Wood v. Lucy, Lady Duff-Gordon\", in which Judge Benjamin N. Cardozo established precedent in the realm of contract law when he held the designer to a contract that assigned the sole right to market her professional name to her advertising agent, Otis F. Wood, despite the fact that the contract lacked explicit consideration for her promise. Cardozo noted that, \"A promise may be lacking, and yet the whole writing may be 'instinct with an obligation'\" and, if so, \"there is a contract.\" 222 N.Y. 88, 118 N.E. 214 (1917).\n\nCardozo famously opened the opinion with the following description of the designer:\n\nAlthough the term \"creator of fashions\" was part of the tagline in 'Lucile's' columns for the Hearst papers, some observers have claimed that Cardozo's tone revealed a certain disdain for her position in the world of fashion. Others accept that he was merely echoing language used by the defendant in her own submissions to the court as well as in her publicity.\n\nLucy Duff-Gordon's connection to her design empire began to disintegrate following a restructuring of Lucile, Ltd in 1918–19. An acrimonious battle emerged in the press, culminating in her public acknowledgement that many Lucile dresses were not designed by her. Lucy Duff-Gordon's autobiography acknowledges that this had been the case since at least 1911.\n\nBy September 1922, she had ceased designing for the company, which effectively closed. A completely new 'Lucile' was formed, using the same premises in Paris, and different designs, but it gradually failed. Meanwhile, its founder (who continued to be known as 'Lucile') worked from private premises designing personally for individual clients. She was briefly associated with the firm of Reville, Ltd., maintained a ready-to-wear shop of her own and lent her name to a wholesale operation in America.\n\nLucy Duff-Gordon also continued as a fashion columnist and critic after her design career ended, contributing to London's \"Daily Sketch\" and \"Daily Express\" (1922–1930), and she penned her best-selling autobiography \"Discretions and Indiscretions\" (1932).\n\nLady Duff-Gordon died of breast cancer, complicated by pneumonia, in a Putney, London nursing home in 1935, aged 71. The date of her death, 20 April, was the fourth anniversary of her husband's death.\n\nIn addition to her mark on culture, history, and the law, there has been a resurgence of interest in her work as a designer. She originated the fashion component of her sister Elinor Glyn's 'It girl' concept.\n\n\nA number of international museum exhibitions have featured Lucile garments in recent years, such as:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2023658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2023658", "title": "Family Guy: Live in Vegas", "text": "Family Guy: Live in Vegas\n\nFamily Guy: Live in Vegas is a soundtrack album for the American animated television series \"Family Guy\". It was released on April 26, 2005 by Geffen Records. It was composed by Walter Murphy and creator Seth MacFarlane. The album features only one song from the series: the theme song; the rest of the songs were composed exclusively for the album. It features vocals from Seth MacFarlane, Alex Borstein, Seth Green, Mike Henry, Mila Kunis, Adam West and Lori Alan, as well as Jason Alexander, Patti LuPone and Haylie Duff as guest stars. It includes Rat Pack- and Broadway-inspired songs.\n\nThe album also came with a DVD featuring the music video for Stewie's \"Sexy Party\" as well as \"making-of\" featurettes for the album and the video.\n\nSeth MacFarlane described the album as \"a blend of the rich, lush arrangements of the classic era of Rat Pack Vegas shows combined with the fart jokes of today\". MacFarlane co-produced the album and co-wrote several tracks. It features guest stars Jason Alexander, Patti LuPone and Haylie Duff. The album includes a cover of \"The Last Time I Saw Paris\" by Jerome Kern as well as a medley of theme songs from 1980s shows such as \"Diff'rent Strokes\", \"Who's the Boss\", \"Growing Pains\" and \"Charles in Charge\". The album is arranged and orchestrated by Walter Murphy and all songs are produced by MacFarlane and Murphy.\n\nAll the voice actors from the show appear on the album voicing their characters. The album includes a DVD with the music video of Stewie's \"Sexy Party\" and behind the scenes segments on making the album and the video. The DVD also includes a trailer for \"American Dad!\" and the fourth season of \"Family Guy\".\n\nThe album received positive reviews from music sources and critics. Rob Theakston of AllMusic said that \"[\"Family Guy\" is] back and raunchier than ever, sparing no expense and leaving no pop culture stone unturned\" and \"without the constraints of network censors, the profanity and heat are turned up to the max\". He called the Broadway-inspired music \"brilliant yet jarring juxtaposition of raunch and class\". The DVD was called a \"must-have for any fan of the show\". Tina Huang of Soundtrack.Net said that the album \"wonderfully merges the flair of big-band orchestras, with simulated, on-stage, Rat Pack-like performances, a chorus, and convincing live audience\" and called it \"mainly for fans; it can't be argued that the music is no less than impressive, but the messages may offend\".\n"}
{"id": "2023661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2023661", "title": "Hans Richter (conductor)", "text": "Hans Richter (conductor)\n\nHans Richter (János Richter) (4 April 18435 December 1916) was an Austrian–Hungarian orchestral and operatic conductor.\n\nRichter was born in Raab (Hungarian: Győr), Kingdom of Hungary, Austro-Hungarian Empire. His father was a local composer, conductor and \"regens chori\" Anton Richter. His mother was opera-singer Jozefa Csazenszky. He studied at the Vienna Conservatory. He had a particular interest in the horn, and developed his conducting career at several different opera houses in the Austro-Hungarian Empire. He became associated with Richard Wagner in the 1860s, and played the solo trumpet part in the 1870 private premiere of the \"Siegfried Idyll\". In 1876, he was chosen to conduct the first complete performance of Wagner's \"Der Ring des Nibelungen\" at the Bayreuth Festspielhaus.\n\nIn 1877, he assisted the ailing composer as conductor of a major series of Wagner concerts in London, and from then onwards he became a familiar feature of English musical life, appearing at many choral festivals including as principal conductor of the Birmingham Triennial Music Festival (1885–1909) and directing the Hallé Orchestra (1899–1911) and the newly formed London Symphony Orchestra (1904–1911). In Europe his work was chiefly based in Vienna, where (transcending the bitter division between the followers of Wagner and those of Johannes Brahms) he gave much attention to the works of Brahms himself, Anton Bruckner (who once slipped a coin into his hand after a concert by way of a tip) and Antonín Dvořák (he gave the London and Vienna premieres of the \"Symphonic Variations\"); he also continued to work at Bayreuth.\n\nIn later years, Richter became a whole-hearted admirer of Sir Edward Elgar, and he also came to accept Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky. On one occasion, he laid down his baton and allowed a London orchestra to play the whole second movement of Tchaikovsky's \"Pathétique\" Symphony itself. Never afraid to experiment on behalf of the music he loved, he lent his authority to an English-language production of \"The Ring\" at Covent Garden (January and February 1909). In 1909 he delivered the British premiere, very shortly after the world premiere, in Boston, of Ignacy Jan Paderewski's Symphony in B minor \"Polonia\". Failing eyesight forced his retirement in 1911. He died at Bayreuth in 1916.\n\nRichter's approach to conducting was monumental rather than mercurial or dynamic, emphasising the overall structure of major works in preference to bringing out individual moments of beauty or passion. Some observers regarded him as little more than a time-beater; but others, notably Eugene Goossens, pointed to the remarkable rhythmic vitality of his work, a quality which hardly squares with the image of Richter as a rather stolid and static personality. \n\nA rebuke he is supposed to have made to a musician in the Covent Garden orchestra is still sometimes quoted:\n\n\"Up with your damned nonsense will I put twice, or perhaps once, but sometimes always, by God, never.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2023663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2023663", "title": "James M. Comly", "text": "James M. Comly\n\nJames Munroe Stuart Comly (March 6, 1832 – July 26, 1887) was an American soldier, diplomat, and newspaper editor. Before and after his service as Colonel in the Union Army during the American Civil War, he was a journalist, attorney, newspaper editor and owner; after the war, he became a historian and diplomat. Comly was also instrumental in advancing the political career of his friend Rutherford B. Hayes, the 19th President of the United States; Hayes would go on to appoint him as United States Minister to Hawaii. In 1866, he was nominated and confirmed as a brevet brigadier general of volunteers, to rank from March 13, 1865.\n\nComly was born on a farm near the city of New Lexington, Ohio. He was descended from a family of Quakers who had moved to Perry County from Philadelphia and established a series of sawmills. When his father died when Comly was only ten years old, he moved to Columbus and worked in a printing shop as a messenger, before becoming an apprentice and journeyman printer. He studied law and served as the chief law clerk for the Ohio Secretary of State, which exposed him to politics. He began writing articles for newspapers and joined the fledgling Republican Party, supporting John C. Frémont for president in 1856 and Abraham Lincoln in 1860. He was the editor of the leading Republican newspaper, the \"Ohio State Journal\".\n\nWhen hostilities broke out between the North and South, Comly enlisted in the Union Army in December 1861, being appointed by Republican Governor William Dennison as major of the 23rd Ohio Volunteer Infantry, an appointment at first not popular with the men as several experienced captains were passed over for the political appointee, Comly. The regiment was assigned to Raleigh, North Carolina, and Comly participated in several battles in the state. He was promoted to lieutenant colonel.\n\nWhen the commander of the regiment, Rutherford B. Hayes, was wounded at the Battle of South Mountain, Comly assumed command and led the 23rd OVI at Antietam and several subsequent campaigns in the IX Corps until Hayes recovered. In 1863, Comly married Elizabeth Smith, the daughter of the Surgeon General of Ohio.\n\nIn February 1864, when Hayes was promoted to division command, Comly was named as his successor as colonel of the regiment, which he led for much of the remainder of the war until lingering effects from battlefield wounds forced him out of the field in early 1865. On January 13, 1866, President Andrew Johnson nominated Comly for appointment to the grade of brevet brigadier general of volunteers, to rank from March 13, 1865, and the United States Senate confirmed the appointment on March 12, 1866.\n\nFollowing the war, Comly returned to his political newspaper and was editor and publisher of the \"Ohio State Journal\", a powerful influence in helping his friend Hayes be elected Governor of Ohio. Comly guided the newspaper into statewide prominence (it would last until 1985 as \"The Columbus Citizen-Journal\"). In April 1866, Comly established a local baseball team in Columbus and became the sport's major promoter and advocate in the region. President Ulysses S. Grant appointed him as Postmaster of Columbus.\n\nWhen Hayes was elected president in 1876, he rewarded Comly for his support by naming him the U.S. Minister to Hawaii, a post he held until 1882. He served as a presidential elector in 1884, supporting James G. Blaine. Comly moved to Toledo, Ohio, and became editor of the \"Toledo Commercial\".\n\nIn the last years of his life, Comly suffered much from his old Civil War wounds. He died in Toledo, Ohio at the age of 55 and was buried in Green Lawn Cemetery in Columbus.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2023666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2023666", "title": "Time reversal", "text": "Time reversal\n\nTime reversal may refer to:\n"}
{"id": "2023691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2023691", "title": "Mud River (West Virginia)", "text": "Mud River (West Virginia)\n\nThe Mud River is a tributary of the Guyandotte River in southwestern West Virginia in the United States. Via the Guyandotte and Ohio Rivers, it is part of the Mississippi River watershed. The river is popular with muskellunge anglers.\n\nThe Mud River was so named on account of the muddy character of its water.\n\nThe Mud River rises in Boone County, west of Madison, and flows generally northwestward for 72 mi (116 km) through Lincoln and Cabell counties, past the towns of Hamlin and Milton. It meets the Guyandotte at the town of Barboursville. Near the stream's mouth, the Mud River meanders through the large, ancient valley of the Teays River.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2023704", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2023704", "title": "The Bone Collector", "text": "The Bone Collector\n\nThe Bone Collector is a 1999 American crime thriller film directed by Phillip Noyce and starring Denzel Washington and Angelina Jolie. It was produced by Martin Bregman.\n\nThe film is based on the crime novel of the same name written by Jeffery Deaver, concerning the tetraplegia detective Lincoln Rhyme. \"The Bone Collector\" earned mixed to negative reviews, and earned about $150 million against a budget of $48 million.\n\nIn 1999 New York City, quadriplegic forensics expert Lincoln Rhyme is bed-bound after an accident that left him completely paralyzed from the neck down. Amelia Donaghy, a newly recruited patrol officer, discovers a mutilated corpse buried at a Civil War-era railroad bed. Due to clue-like objects found at the crime scene, Rhyme concludes that the scene was staged and subsequently teams up with an initially hesitant Amelia, impressed by her natural forensic instincts.\n\nThe killer poses as a taxi driver and, prior to Rhyme and Amelia meeting, abducts married couple Alan and Lindsay Rubin. Alan is the body discovered by Amelia at the railroad station, while Lindsay is revealed to be alive and tied up at a steam junction. Using the clues found at the railroad bed, including a torn piece of scrap paper, Rhyme successfully tracks the whereabouts of Lindsay. The detectives and Amelia arrive too late and she is scalded to death by an open steam pipe. Amelia finds a piece of Lindsay’s bone by her body and another scrap of paper. Rhyme instructs Amelia to sever Lindsay’s hands, which are securely chained to the pipe, for evidence but she refuses and storms off from the crime scene.\n\nThe killer abducts an NYU student, who is taken to a derelict slaughterhouse and tied to a pole. The killer surgically removes a piece of bone from the student, leaving an open wound that attracts nearby rats. Amelia and Rhyme, again using the clues left by the killer at the scene of the previous murder, find the victim’s body which has been mutilated by rats. Amelia finds another scrap of paper and a piece of bone. The pressure of the tense investigation and bureaucratic challenges to Amelia and Rhyme’s involvement in the case begin to have serious impacts on Rhyme’s health and stability. Thelma, Rhyme's personal carer and nurse, reveals to Amelia that he intends to euthanise himself out of fear of seizures that could leave him in a vegetative state.\n\nAfter piecing together the message the killer was sending using the scrap paper left at each scene, Amelia and Rhyme are led to an old crime novel called The Bone Collector, where it is revealed the killer is replicating the crimes from the fictional story. This leads them to the killer’s next victims, a grandfather and granddaughter who have been tied to a pier during a rise in tide. The paramedics successfully resuscitate the young girl, but the grandfather is pronounced dead. At the scene, Amelia finds another piece of bone, part of an old police badge, and a subway map. These clues together with the asbestos left by the killer at the scene of Lindsay’s death lead Amelia to an abandoned subway station, where she sees numbers on the side of a carriage that have been tampered with to spell out Rhyme's police badge number.\n\nThe killer arrives at Rhyme's house and kills both Thelma and police Captain Howard Cheney. The killer is revealed to be Richard Thompson, the medical technician in charge of Rhyme's medical equipment. Richard’s real name is Marcus Andrews, a former forensics expert, who was convicted after Rhyme wrote an article accusing him of planting evidence resulting in the wrongful imprisonment of six innocent people, one of whom hanged himself. Blaming Rhyme for his imprisonment and the abuse he endured during his incarceration, he attempts to kill Rhyme out of revenge. Rhyme retaliates by crushing Marcus’ hand in his medical bed, resulting in a struggle between the two that forces them both onto the floor. Unable to move, Rhyme is almost killed by Marcus until Amelia arrives and shoots Marcus dead.\n\nThe following Christmas, Rhyme, having abandoned his plans to commit suicide, meets his sister and niece coming to visit him along with Amelia and his other colleagues.\n\n\nExterior scenes were filmed in New York City. Interior scenes were shot in Montreal.\n\nBased on 85 reviews collected by Rotten Tomatoes, \"The Bone Collector\" has an average approval rating of 28%, with an average score of 4.2/10. The site's consensus states: \"A talented cast is wasted on a bland attempt at a suspenseful, serial killer flick.\" Metacritic gave the film an average score of 45 out of 100 based on the 33 reviews. Audiences surveyed by CinemaScore gave the film a grade \"B+\" on scale of A to F.\n\nEric S. Arnold of \"Newsweek\" gives a mainly positive review, stating that \"\"The Bone Collector\" may be formulaic—but many good recipes are.\" William Arnold of the \"Seattle Post-Intelligencer\" describes the film as having \"the characteristics of a bad slasher movie\" in a mainly negative review, calling the plot \"ultimately preposterous\". Roger Ebert of the \"Chicago Sun-Times\" gave the film a mixed two stars out of a possible four. He praised the performances by lead and supporting actors, but deplored plot's \"utter absurdity\", writing: \"The movie is a peculiar experience to sit through, because the quality of the acting is so much better than the material deserves.\"\n\nOn January 17, 2019, it was announced that NBC had given the production a pilot order under the name Lincoln based on \"The Bone Collector\" novel. Sony Pictures Television and Universal Television were shopping the show to the American broadcast networks. VJ Boyd and Mark Bianculli would write the series and also serve as executive producer, and Seth Gordon would direct the potential pilot. In May 2019, NBC picked up the series, which would be titled \"\", and premiere January 10, 2020. The pilot episode was released early online on January 1, 2020, ahead of its network debut on January 10.\n\n"}
{"id": "2023705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2023705", "title": "Discaria", "text": "Discaria\n\nDiscaria is a genus of about 12 species of flowering plants in the family Rhamnaceae, native to temperate regions of the Southern Hemisphere, in Australia, New Zealand and South America.\n\nThey are deciduous thorny shrubs or small trees growing to 2–5 m tall. They are also non-legume nitrogen fixers.\n\nMany of the world's \"Discaria\" species qualify as xerophytes in the true sense of the term, and the Australian species are no exception. They frequently occur on porous or well-drained sites and on soils of low fertility. Some species can fix nitrogen from the atmosphere with the help of symbiotic bacteria (\"Frankia\") that form nodules in their roots.\n"}
{"id": "2023707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2023707", "title": "50 goals in 50 games", "text": "50 goals in 50 games\n\nThe phrase \"50 goals in 50 games\" refers to the act of scoring 50 goals within the first 50 games of a National Hockey League (NHL) season. Scoring 50 goals in 50 (or fewer) games in the NHL is a rare achievement.\n\nThe NHL defines \"50 goals in 50 games\" to mean that a player scores 50 goals in the team's first 50 games of the season, not the player's first 50 (which could differ for health or disciplinary reasons). This feat has been achieved eight times by five different players.\n\n\nMaurice Richard of the Montreal Canadiens was the first player in NHL history to score 50 goals in one season. He achieved the target on March 18, 1945, in the 50th (and final) game of the 1944–45 season, the league's 28th, on goalie Harvey Bennett of the Boston Bruins.\n\nBesides Richard's 50-in-50 feat, he also led the NHL in goals on four other occasions and was the league's first career 500-goal scorer. Richard was unable to equal his personal best of 50 goals before retiring in 1960, even though the NHL extended its schedule to 60 games in and 70 in . In recognition of his achievements, the NHL created an annual award in 1999, the Maurice \"Rocket\" Richard Trophy, which was donated by the Montreal Canadiens, to be presented to the top goal-scorer in the league.\n\nIt took another sixteen years before another player, Bernie Geoffrion, managed to score 50 goals in a single season, also while playing for Montreal. When Bobby Hull finally broke the season record with 54 goals in 1966, fans of the then-retired Richard, noting that Hull was playing in a 70-game schedule, demanded that the NHL continue to recognize Richard's record. Hull's fans countered that Richard had achieved his record during World War II, during which many NHLers enlisted in the military (Richard, who was notoriously prone to injury throughout his career, was deemed unfit for service). Additionally, the counterargument noted Richard's failure to match the record in peacetime, with the caliber of the NHL not similarly hindered, even though he played in eleven 70-game seasons.\n\nThe NHL awarded Hull the record, while at the same time recognizing Richard as the first, and to that point only, player to score 50 goals in 50 games, firmly establishing the achievement into NHL lore. The next player to achieve 50-in-50 did so nearly 36 years later.\n\n\nIn the 1980–81 season, Mike Bossy of the New York Islanders became only the second player to score 50 goals in 50 games. The hockey press promoted this heavily, as Bossy was in an unofficial competition with Charlie Simmer of the Los Angeles Kings (see below) to be the first to accomplish the 50-in-50 milestone since Richard. Both players played their 50th game on January 24, 1981: Simmer started the day with 46 goals and Bossy 48. Simmer scored a hat trick against Boston, giving him 49 goals in 50 games, just missing the mark. Making his game against the Quebec Nordiques particularly dramatic, Bossy was scoreless for much of the game but beat goaltender Ron Grahame twice within the last five minutes. Richard was on hand to congratulate Bossy for this achievement. Bossy finished the season with 68 goals in 79 games played.\n\n\nWayne Gretzky of the Edmonton Oilers demolished the 50-in-50 mark, less than a full year after Bossy tied Richard. In Gretzky's 38th game of the 1981-82 season, he scored four goals, giving him 45 on the season. In his very next game, on December 30, 1981, he scored a rare five goals in one game against the Philadelphia Flyers, the fifth being an empty-net goal with three seconds left in the game, to give him the record of 50 goals in 39 games. He had 50 goals before any other player had scored even 30, and finished with an NHL-record 92 goals on the season, having participated in all 80 of Edmonton's games.\n\nGretzky went on to score 50 goals within 50 games twice more in his career. In 1983–84, he scored his 50th goal in the team's 42nd game, on January 7, 1984, and scored 87 goals in 74 games that season. Gretzky's 50th goal was an empty-net goal that put the Oilers up 5–3 in a win over the Hartford Whalers at home. It was also Gretzky's third goal of the game, completing a hat trick. Also in 1983–84, Gretzky accumulated the fastest 50 goals recorded over consecutive games when he scored 50 goals over 34 consecutive games from December 14, 1983 through March 11, 1984.\n\nIn 1984–85, he scored his 50th in the team's 49th game, ending the season with 73 goals in 80 games. Gretzky's 50th goal came on January 26, 1985 (his 24th birthday), on the first of three goals he scored in a 6–3 win over the Pittsburgh Penguins, beating goaltender Denis Herron. It was the third time Gretzky scored 50 goals within 50 games, and the third time his 50-in-50 goal was part of a hat trick.\n\n\nMario Lemieux of the Pittsburgh Penguins was the next player to score 50 goals in 50 or fewer games, achieving the feat on January 20, 1989. Lemieux's 50th goal came in game 46 of the team's schedule against the Winnipeg Jets and goaltender Pokey Reddick, which was Lemieux's 44th game of the season. He finished the season with 85 goals in 76 games.\n\n\nBrett Hull scored 50 goals in 50 games or fewer twice in his career for the St. Louis Blues. Hull first did it in the 1990–91 season when he scored his 50th goal, and second of the game, against rookie goalie Dave Gagnon of the Detroit Red Wings on January 25, 1991, in the Blues' 49th game. Hull finished the season with 86 goals in 78 games played.\n\nHis second time, the most recent season the feat was achieved, was during the subsequent 1991–92 season. On January 28, 1992, Hull scored his 50th goal against goalie Kelly Hrudey in game number 50, a 3–3 tie in Los Angeles. He ended the season with 70 goals in 73 games.\n\nThe following players scored fifty goals in or before their 50th game in a single season, but do not officially qualify for 50-in-50 status because the NHL requires a player to have scored his 50th goal in or prior to his \"team's\" 50th game.\n\n\n\nBobby Hull in 1974–75, while playing for the Winnipeg Jets of the World Hockey Association became the first player since Maurice Richard to score 50 goals in 50 games. Hull had 47 goals through 49 games and had a hat trick to reach the milestone. He finished with 77 goals in 78 games, which was the new NHL/WHA single-season record for most goals scored at the time (Phil Esposito of the Boston Bruins had scored 76 in 78 games in , though he only scored his 50th goal in his 58th game).\n\nAnders Hedberg, while also playing for the Jets, broke the record in 1976–77. He scored 51 goals in 49 games, becoming the first NHL or WHA player to score 50 goals in fewer than 50 games. He finished with 70 goals in 68 games.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2023715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2023715", "title": "Henry A. Peirce", "text": "Henry A. Peirce\n\nHenry Augustus Peirce (December 15, 1808 – July 29, 1885) was an American businessman and diplomat. Some sources spell his last name as Pierce.\n\nPeirce was born in Dorchester, Massachusetts (now part of Boston) on December 15, 1808. His father was Joseph Hardy Peirce (1773–1832), the son of Joseph Peirce; his mother was Frances Temple. He had at least one brother and five sisters. He attended public schools in Boston, and then about 1822 worked for his father and uncle as a court clerk. On October 24, 1824 he enrolled on the crew of the merchant ship \"Griffon\" mastered by his brother Marus T. Peirce. On March 25, 1825 the \"Griffon\" landed in Honolulu for provisions. He was promoted to ship's clerk for the three-year trading voyage on the west coast of British Columbia. In September 1828 the \"Griffon\" was back in Honolulu, and Peirce stayed while his brother returned.\n\nPeirce worked as a clerk for fellow ex-New Englander James Hunnewell (1794–1869), who ran a mercantile business. He eventually became a partner, and then owner when Hunnewell left in 1830. In 1834 he chartered the \"Becket\" from King Kamehameha III and traveled to China trading sandalwood and merchandise to the Kamchatka Peninsula. In 1835 he formed a partnership with one of the commanders of his ships, Captain Charles Brewer (1804–1885), and continued to develop the shipping business.\nSome time around 1828 he took a common-law wife (before marriages were legally required to be recorded) named Kahoa, or Virginia Rives, whose mother was a Hawaiian noble and father was Jean-Baptiste Rives, the French former Secretary of Kamehameha II. They had a son named Henry E. Pierce in 1830 (changing the spelling the last name), whom he took to the mainland for his education. Kahoa divorced in 1837, and Henry E. and his mother moved to Kamchatka.\nIn 1836 after sailing on one of his ships to China, he traveled to New York. It was his first time back in his native country for 12 years. On January 19, 1837 he sailed again out of Boston to Brazil. He then went around Cape Horn to Peru, where he was employed as Peruvian Consul to Hawaii. In November 1837 he sold a ship in Valparaíso, Chile and traveled overland back to Brazil. From there he sailed back to New York and Boston. He married Susan R. Thompson on July 3, 1838. Less than a year later he purchased the schooner \"Morse\" and left again on April 21, 1839. Via Cape Horn again, he arrived in Honolulu October, 1839. In November 1841 he sailed for Alta California. Although there were plans for American settlement, it was still a spare Spanish outpost. In a letter to Thomas Cummins in February 1841 he wrote:\n\nIn my opinion California will become, in its future history, a second Texas...in less than six years more than fifteen thousand persons will have emigrated to California...we shall, I hope, see the country governed by our own enlightened laws, and the people speaking our own language.\n\nHe sailed south down the California coast, continuing to trade as he went. After reaching San Blas, Mexico he traveled by land to Mexico City and the eastern coast, then boat to Cuba. From there he traveled north to Washington, D.C. where he met with Daniel Webster who was then Secretary of State. Finally he saw his family again for the first time in three years.\n\nIn 1843 Peirce retired from the Honolulu business, which became C. Brewer & Co. After some other owners, the name would be changed back by Brewer's nephew, the name it would keep through the 21st century. It became one of the Big Five companies that dominated the economy of the Territory of Hawaii.\n\nIn 1844 Peirce took a tour of Europe, but continued to invest in shipping ventures. One of his ships was chartered in 1847 to send provisions to Monterey, California for the U.S. forces there. At the start of the California Gold Rush, he sailed on the ship \"Montreal\" on January 19, 1849. When they arrived in San Francisco in July 1849, the entire crew left to join the gold rush. By September he had gathered another crew and sent the \"Montreal\" back to New England, while he went to Honolulu. He invested in a small sugarcane plantation at Līhuʻe on Kauai island with Charles Reed Bishop and William Little Lee, but it failed due to uneven rainfall. After William Harrison Rice constructed an irrigation system, the plantation was reorganized in 1859.\n\nMeanwhile, Peirce headed off to China. There he joined a venture sending Chinese goods to San Francisco at a great profit. Finally in April 1850 he returned to Boston after circumnavigating the earth. Seeing the new market potential, he joined his old friends Hunnewell and Brewer in a partnership sending goods between Hawaii and California. This time he stayed behind with his wife and two children, acting as Consul for Hawaii in New England.\n\nThe outbreak of the American Civil War and financial scandals caused great losses in the 1860s. He helped provide transportation for troops, and was meeting at Port Royal, South Carolina with Admiral William Reynolds whom he had known in Hawaii in 1840, when he heard Abraham Lincoln had been assassinated. He attended the funeral procession on his way home. In 1866 he invested in a venture to use freed slaves for a cotton plantation in Yazoo County, Mississippi, but that venture also failed. He had to sell his Beacon Street mansion to settle his debts.\n\nOn May 10, 1869 Peirce was appointed U.S. Minister to Hawaiian Islands, and confirmed by the U.S. Senate on December 21, 1869. This time he traveled on the transcontinental railroad and arrived in Honolulu by June 15, 1869, twenty years after his last visit. On July 19, 1869 he presented his credentials at the court of King Kamehameha V. When this last ruler of the House of Kamehameha died on December 11, 1872 without naming a successor, the Kingdom faced a political crisis. The popular King Lunalilo then died on February 3, 1874, again with no successor, and the crisis deepened when King Kalākaua was elected by the legislature. Supporters of Queen Emma of Hawaii who was popular with the people, started to riot. At the request of C. R. Bishop who was Minister of the Interior, Peirce called out American troops from the sloops and .\nOn November 17, 1874 Kalākaua left accompanied by Peirce and some other government ministers on a visit to Washington, D.C. which was the first state visit of a ruling monarch to the United States. They were guests at a state dinner and reception with President Ulysses S. Grant and the U.S. Cabinet. The Reciprocity Treaty of 1875 allowed use of Pearl Harbor by the U.S. in exchange for elimination of tariffs on Hawaiian goods. This was a careful compromise between those who wanted full annexation of the islands or cessation of the Harbor, and others who opposed any threats to sovereignty. Peirce had worked for years on arranging the trip and treaty, interrupted by the deaths of the two previous monarchs. Kalākaua offered Peirce the Royal Order of Kamehameha, but he had to wait until no longer employed by the U.S. Government to accept.\n\nHe served until being replaced by James M. Comly on September 25, 1877. On November 17, 1877 he arrived in San Francisco, but the cold weather convinced him to return to Hawaii January 8, 1878. As he was about to leave, Kalākaua offered him the post of Minister of Foreign Affairs for the Kingdom of Hawaii on March 1. There was a shortage of experienced politicians and diplomats willing to serve; in fact, the Minister from the Kingdom to the United States was fellow New Englander Elisha Hunt Allen. Americans were negotiating on both sides of the 1875 treaty. Allen also was chief justice of the Hawaii Supreme Court.\nHowever, after a no confidence vote was narrowly defeated by the legislature, Kalākaua replaced his entire cabinet on July 3, 1878. Peirce served for one session in the House of Nobles, and was sent to an exhibition in Boston in 1883. He returned to Boston one more time and then resided in San Francisco where he died on July 29, 1885.\n"}
{"id": "2023727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2023727", "title": "Downhaul", "text": "Downhaul\n\nThe downhaul is a line which is part of the rigging on a sailboat; it applies downward force on a spar or sail. The most common downhaul on a modern sailboat is attached to the spinnaker pole, though this may be referred to as the foreguy in some rigging nomenclature. The term is also commonly applied to the cunningham on the mainsail.\n\nIn a windsurfing rig, the downhaul is the primary load-bearing line which controls the sail's shape. Modern windsurfing sails incorporate a sleeve for the mast, and therefore do not have a halyard which tensions the top of the sail. The downhaul is tensioned early in the rigging process and is generally not adjustable on the water, and is therefore rather different in use than the downhaul on a sailboat.\n"}
{"id": "2023738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2023738", "title": "Permission (magazine)", "text": "Permission (magazine)\n\nPermission was one of the largest gothic magazines of the 1990s. Begun in 1992 in Chicago by Jayson Elliot, the first issue appeared as a newsprint 'zine, with a mix of articles about bands (such as Alien Sex Fiend and Young Gods), amateur poetry, disturbing comics (such as a Scott Warren piece on serial killer Ed Gein), and fiction by local industrial musicians such as Jim Marcus (Die Warzaw).\n\nAs the industrial and gothic scenes peaked in the US during the early and mid-nineties, \"Permission\" grew rapidly, putting out ten issues at the rate of about two or three per year. Prior to \"Permission\", the pre-eminent goth magazine had been \"Propaganda\"; but its fan base began to stagnate just as \"Permission\"'s began to grow. While \"Propaganda\" and its emulators (\"Ghastly\", \"Carpe Noctem\", \"Dark Angel\", etc.) reflected a serious, almost dogmatic approach to goth, \"Permission\" took a more jumbled, even humorous approach. Though it was prone to slip into self-importance from time to time as well, regular features like \"Why'd You Get Kicked Out of Denny's?\" or \"Science Geek\" kept things light. Every issue had comics in back, and readers were more likely to find a pin-up of professional wrestler The Undertaker than gothic makeup tips.\n\nPublishing in the days before the Web, \"Permission\" was, along with related publication \"IndustrialnatioN\", a primary source for reviews of goth and industrial music. A typical issue would contain between one and two hundred album reviews. The writing quality was varied; though the features themselves could be insightful.\n\n\"Permission\"'s music coverage in the '90s reads like a guide to industrial/goth, from Skinny Puppy and KMFDM to Human Drama and Kommunity FK, and was known for its irreverent photography. Legendary Pink Dots wore giant toy hats in a photo booth. Sheep on Drugs were given tiny birds and toy mushrooms. Thrill Kill Kult was splayed across the hood of a flaming '70s conversion van. Pigface appeared as just an iron and a blender.\n\nA compilation album released by \"Permission\" was titled \"TV Terror: Felching A Dead Horse\" and featured covers of television theme songs played by some of the darkest, loudest bands of the time. The album had the distinction of being the catalyst for the first use of the word \"felch\" on national television, when Kurt Loder reported its release on MTV News.\n\nThe magazine's creator Jayson Elliot was busy in the goth industrial scene, and often travelled to throw \"Permission\" parties or tour with bands. In 1994, he managed \"Procession\", the \"world gothic tour\" featuring goth bands from four countries traveling around the United States. While turnout was heavy for the tour, a series of mishaps and conflicts left him soured on the scene. Moving the magazine to San Francisco in 1995, \"Permission\" continued to grow, though as its circulation increased, Jayson took the direction further and further from its punk/goth/industrial origins. By 1997, the magazine had reached its peak of popularity, with over forty thousand readers, but the strain of running the magazine and his own disaffection with the scene led Jayson to cease publication in 2001.\n\nIn 2004, \"Permission\" re-formed in \"New York City\", again under Jayson Elliot's direction. The magazine re-launched with an entirely new direction and design, much like \"Details\" magazine in the 1980s did, without referencing the past. Now a fashion and lifestyle magazine, \"Permission\" bills itself as \"life + style for emerging artists\", and focuses on up-and-comers in all the creative fields.\n"}
{"id": "2023746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2023746", "title": "Discaria toumatou", "text": "Discaria toumatou\n\nDiscaria toumatou, commonly called matagouri, is a tangle-branched thorny plant endemic to New Zealand. An alternative but less used name for the plant is \"wild Irishman\". The name matagouri is how speakers of English heard the South Island pronunciation of the Māori name \"matakoura\". It is also known as tūmatakuru.\n\nMatagouri is a tangle-branched, extremely thorny, divaricating shrub or small tree up to five metres tall. It has small leathery leaves close to the thorns, which are only abundant in spring or the shade. The flowers are tiny and white with no petals. It is the only New Zealand native plant that has thorns.\n\nIt is most common in tussock grassland, stony areas and river beds. It is common in the eastern South Island, and found in a few coastal localities in the North Island south from the mouth of the Waikato River. As with other \"Discaria\" species it fixes nitrogen from the atmosphere with the help of symbiotic bacteria of the genus \"Frankia\" in its roots. It often grows in association with mingimingi (\"Coprosma propinqua\"), porcupine shrub (\"Melicytus alpinus\", an alpine mahoe), native brooms (\"Carmichaelia\" species) and the introduced sweet briar (\"Rosa rubiginosa\"), the last a weed.\n\nAs a native plant matagouri has complete protection on public conservation land and a degree of protection on private land under the Resource Management Act 1991. In a notable case a 400 ha area of matagouri forest, including trees that may have been 150 years old, was illegally sprayed at the head of Lake Sumner in 2001.\n"}
{"id": "2023756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2023756", "title": "The Atomic Fireballs", "text": "The Atomic Fireballs\n\nThe Atomic Fireballs is a Detroit band led by vocalist/songwriter John Bunkley. The group was formed during 1996 with Bunkley on vocals, James Bostek on trumpet, Tony Buccilli on trombone, Duke Kingins on guitar, Shawn Scaggs on double bass, Eric Schabo on tenor sax, Geoff Kinde on drums, and Randy Sly on piano. Scaggs was replaced by Seán E. Harris on double bass and Bostek was replaced by Kenneth Ferry Jr. on trumpet. The band was discovered by former Kid Rock manager Michael Rand. After booking the band nearly 60 concerts Rand began the process of introducing the band to major record labels. The band was signed to Lava by A&R executives Rick Goetz and Jason Flom.\n\nThe Atomic Fireballs released two albums: \"Birth of the Swerve\", which was released independently in 1998, produced at Tanglewood Studio in Brookfield, Illinois, and \"Torch This Place\", which was released by Atlantic in 1999. \"Torch This Place\" was recorded at Armoury Studios in Vancouver, British Columbia, and was produced by Bruce Fairbairn along with engineers Mike Plotnikoff and Paul Silveira.\n\nThough they are jump blues inspired, some listeners have placed them in the swing revival genre. The band's biggest hit, \"Man with the Hex\", was included on the soundtracks of \"American Pie\", \"Scooby Doo\" and \"The Haunted Mansion\", was used in several TV shows, most notably \"Dawson's Creek\", and was featured on both \"Dancing With the Stars\" and \"So You Think You Can Dance\" as a quickstep. Visuals of the band performing \"Swing Sweet Pussycat\" are shown in the closing credits of the 1999 film \"Three to Tango\".\n\nGeoff Kinde performs solo as Roland Remington. Eric Schabo teaches history at Crestwood High School in Dearborn Heights, Michigan. Randy Sly performs with The Verve Pipe.\n\n"}
{"id": "2023767", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2023767", "title": "Juan Castro", "text": "Juan Castro\n\nJuan Gabriel Castro (born June 20, 1972), is a Mexican former professional baseball infielder, who played in Major League Baseball (MLB) for the Los Angeles Dodgers, Cincinnati Reds, Minnesota Twins, Baltimore Orioles, and Philadelphia Phillies, during his 17-year big league career. Castro was known mainly for his defensive abilities. He was primarily a reserve player. Castro batted and threw right-handed. He currently is serving as the infield coach for the Philadelphia Phillies and the manager for Mexico national baseball team.\n\nCastro was signed as an undrafted free agent by the Los Angeles Dodgers in 1991 and began his trek through the minor leagues with the Great Falls Voyagers in 1991. He followed that up with time spent with the Bakersfield Dodgers, San Antonio Missions and Albuquerque Dukes. He was selected to the Texas League All-Star Team while with San Antonio in 1994.\n\nCastro made his major league debut with the Los Angeles Dodgers on September 2, against the Montreal Expos as a defensive replacement at third base. He got his first at bat on September 11 and recorded his first career hit in his first career start, on the final day of the season, October 1, against the San Diego Padres.\n\nPlaying for the Dodgers was especially meaningful for Castro, as he idolized fellow Mexican and former Dodgers pitching ace Fernando Valenzuela as a child.\n\nCastro played for the Dodgers through the season. His primary position was shortstop, but he also backed up at second base and third base.\n\nAfter seeing very little playing time during the 1999 season, Castro was traded by the Dodgers to the Cincinnati Reds for Kenny Lutz on April 1, 2000, just before the start of the season.\n\nHe played with the Reds from 2000 to 2004, mostly as a utility player. In 2003, he batted .253/.290/.388 with career highs of 9 home runs and 33 RBIs.\n\nIn , Castro was signed by the Minnesota Twins as a backup to rookie shortstop Jason Bartlett. Bartlett struggled and Castro saw increased playing time. He batted .257/.279/.386, and his 9 sacrifices were 7th in the league.\n\nOn June 15, , Castro was traded back to the Cincinnati Reds for minor league outfielder Brandon Roberts. On April 21, , he was designated for assignment by the Reds.\n\nOn May 2, , he became a free agent. After spending some time playing for the Colorado Rockies' Triple-A affiliate, the Colorado Springs Sky Sox, he was traded to the Baltimore Orioles on July 19, and was immediately added to the major league roster. Castro started more games at shortstop than any other player in 2008 for the Orioles.\n\nHe became a free agent at the end of the season and on January 4, , he signed a minor league contract with an invitation to spring training with his original team, the Los Angeles Dodgers. He spent the season as a backup infielder and then filed for free agency again.\n\nCastro agreed to a one-year deal with the Philadelphia Phillies on November 24. Castro temporarily replaced Jimmy Rollins at shortstop after Rollins suffered a right calf injury. Playing third base, Castro fielded the ground ball and threw to first, completing the 27th and final out of Roy Halladay's perfect game.\n\nCastro was released by the Phillies on July 17, 2010, and returned to the Dodgers on a minor-league contract on July 27, 2010. The Dodgers called him up to the Majors on August 11, 2010. He appeared in one game and was designated for assignment on August 21. The Dodgers had intended to recall him when rosters expanded in September, but he chose to remain home to attend to an ailing family member. He became a free agent after the season but re-signed with the Dodgers on a minor league contract that included an invitation to spring training. He was assigned to the AAA Albuquerque Isotopes.\n\nOn May 13, 2011, he had his contract purchased by the Dodgers. After appearing in seven games, during which he was 4 for 14, he was again designated for assignment on June 6.\n\nHe retired from baseball on July 10, 2011. Over 17 years in the major leagues, he batted .229/.268/.327.\n\nCastro agreed to a new position as a special assistant to the General Manager with the Dodgers, with involvement in player development and talent evaluation. He was also a coach with the Mexico national baseball team in the 2013 World Baseball Classic. Castro was the Dodgers minor league infield coordinator in 2015. In 2016, he was added to the Dodgers major league staff in the newly created post of Quality Assurance Coach. After the 2017 season, he left the Dodgers to become the director of operations for the Tijuana Toros in the Mexican League. In 2018, Castro returned to the Mexican Pacific League to manage the Águilas de Mexicali, his second stint as manager of the club. In 2019, Castro was announced as manager for Team Mexico at the 2019 WBSC Premier12 tournament. \n"}
{"id": "2023769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2023769", "title": "Peter of Spain", "text": "Peter of Spain\n\nPeter of Spain (; Portuguese and ; century) was the author of the ', later known as the ', an important medieval university textbook on Aristotelian logic. As the Latin \"Hispania\" was considered to include the entire Iberian peninsula, he is traditionally and usually identified with the Portuguese scholar and ecclesiastic Peter Juliani, who was elected Pope John XXI in 1276. The identification is sometimes disputed, usually by Spanish authors, who claim the author of the \" was a Castilian Blackfriar. He is also sometimes identified as Petrus Ferrandi Hispanus ( 1254  1259).\n\nThe author of the \" is assumed to have studied under John Pagus.\n\nThere are a large volume of manuscripts and printed editions of the \"\", indicative of its great success throughout European universities well into the seventeenth century. The most recent edition is Peter of Spain (Petrus Hispanus Portugalensis), \"Tractatus called afterwards Summule Logicales\", edited by Lambertus Marie de Rijk, Wijsgerige Teksten en Studies 22 (Assen: Van Gorcum, 1972). A later logical work of his is, in the most recent edition, Peter of Spain (Petrus Hispanus Portugalensis), \"Syncategoreumata\", edited by Lambertus Marie de Rijk and translated by Joke Spruyt, Studien und Text zur Geistesgeschichte des Mittelalters 30 (New York: E. J. Brill, 1992).\n\nPeter of Spain supported an investigation of teaching at the University of Paris which resulted in the Parisian bishop's Condemnation of 1277, which denounced Aristotelian propositions which conflicted with church doctrine.\n\nA Petrus Hispanus, usually identified as the same scholar, was also credited as the author of a \"Commentary on Isaac\", one of the foundational texts of clinical pharmacology. A Pedro Hispano was also credited with the \"Treasury of the Poor\" (\"\"), a comprehensive medical manual of diseases and remedies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2023770", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2023770", "title": "Warcraft: Day of the Dragon", "text": "Warcraft: Day of the Dragon\n\nWarcraft: Day of the Dragon is a novel by Richard A. Knaak based in Blizzard Entertainments Warcraft Universe. It was published by Pocket Books.\n\nIt is the second book released in the Warcraft Universe, and the first released paper book.\n\nSet after \"\" but before \"\", \"Day of the Dragon\" is the story of how a human Mage, Rhonin, ventures into the last remaining Orc-controlled lands in Khaz Modan by the order of Krasus. Krasus is actually a red dragon named Korialstrasz, yet is disguised as a human mage of Dalaran during the earlier chapters of the book. He is loyal to his captured queen, Alexstrasza, Queen of the Red dragon flight and one of the five great Aspects. By using the \"Demon Soul\", Nekros Skullcrusher, leader of the orcs in Khaz Modan, is able to hold Alexstrasza and her consorts, such as Tyranastrasz, against their will and use their offspring as pawns against the other races of Azeroth.\n\nWhilst Korialstrasz sought help from the other Aspects, Nozdormu, Malygos and Ysera, Deathwing helped Rhonin get into the Orc Fortress in order to convince Nekros Skullcrusher that there was an imminent Alliance attack on Grim Batol. Deathwing's real motivation was that he wanted the eggs so he could replenish his flight, not to free the Red Dragonqueen. Believing a great army to be on its way, Nekros had the eggs transported elsewhere, placing them in the open where Deathwing wanted them. However, as Deathwing was stealing the eggs, he was confronted by a dying Tyranastrasz. Despite initial problems, Korialstrasz managed to gain the aid of the other three Great Aspects in his task to free Alexstrasza. With the help of Rhonin, Vereesa Windrunner, Falstad Dragonreaver (Falstad Wildhammer), and a number of dwarven resistance fighters, the group managed to destroy the \"Demon Soul\" forever. By doing so, they free Alexstrasza, who swallows Nekros Skullcrusher in one gulp, aiding in the defeat of the orcs in the area. Ironically, Deathwing helped with the release of Alexstrasza, yet was not concerned due to the fact that the \"Demon Soul\" has drained the other Aspects powers. However, with the destruction of the \"Demon Soul\" the powers were returned to the four Aspects and Deathwing was last seen fleeing from three angry Aspects at the time as Alexstrasza went to Korialstrasz.\n\nThe storyline also covers Deathwing's plot to throw the mortal kingdoms into disarray by posing as Lord Prestor, using his draconic powers to manipulate the rulers of the human kingdoms into making him king of Alterac, then planning to marry into the Lordaeron royal family to become its heir. However, with his defeat at the hands of the other four Dragon Aspects, Lord Prestor is never seen again.\n\n\nLittle of the content covered in Day of the Dragon is within the game World of Warcraft. The location of Grim Batol has been in the game since its release in 2004, and with the release of , it serves as a five player dungeon.\n\nThe remains of the Dragonmaw Orc clan are still present in the area, known as the Wetlands, and a large number of red dragonspawn are also present, guarding Grim Batol, hostile to all others.\n\nThe storyline of the Prestor family attempting to throw the Alliance into disarray continued, as Deathwing's daughter took place as part of the noble family, and became a royal advisor to the kingdom of Stormwind before eventually being discovered to be, in fact, the dragon Onyxia. Onyxia has since been slain.\n\nThe Red Dragonflight have recovered since their imprisonment in Day of the Dragon, and in World of Warcraft are a strong presence in the Wyrmrest Accord, an alliance between dragons. Korialstraz sits beside Alexstrasza in the accords's base of operations, the Wyrmrest Temple. Rhonin and Veressa Windrunner are also found in game, leaders of the kingdom of Dalaran in Northrend.\n\n"}
{"id": "2023774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2023774", "title": "Nanny 911", "text": "Nanny 911\n\nNanny 911 is a reality television show in the United States, which originally aired on FOX from 2004 to 2007. \n\nOn February 27, 2008, FOX announced that it sold the rights to \"Nanny 911\" (as well as its partnered FOX show, \"Trading Spouses\") to CMT. New episodes of the series aired on CMT from April to June 2009. The show also previously aired reruns on ABC Family in 2008.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, the show airs on ITV2, whose sister company, Granada America, produces the show.\n\n\"Nanny 911\" is loosely based on the British television programme \"Little Angels\", in which American families with unmanageable children are reformed by British nannies, including one who served for the royal family.\n\nThe introduction features montages of several clips of unruly children (and the nannies' surprised reactions), whereupon stock footage shows a \"call\" being made to Nanny 911 where \"Head Nanny Lilian\" (Lilian Sperling, featured as \"Nanny to the British Royal Family\") answers \"Nanny 911\" (on an old rotary dial phone).\n\nAfter the intro the selected family is featured on a separate clip. Head Nanny Lilian and the other nannies – \"Nanny Deb\" (Deborah Carroll), \"Nanny Stella\" (Stella Reid), and \"Nanny Yvonne\" (originally Yvonne Shove, later replaced by Yvonne Finnerty for unspecified reasons) discuss the clip, whereupon Lilian announces (based on the major need; each nanny specializes in one area, such as proper etiquette or controlling temper tantrums) which nanny will visit the family. The nannies are featured visiting the family in traditional nanny dress (similar to that worn by Mary Poppins).\n\nThe nanny's first day is spent solely in observing the family dynamics in order to determine a suitable plan of action for changing the children's behavior; at the end of the day the nanny discusses what needs to be done. The remainder of the week shows the plan being implemented, along with the parents' reactions (which can be quite negative, especially when the nanny mentions how the parents' actions have resulted in the problem). At the end of the week, the nanny generally compliments the family for the changed behavior. The last segment shows the family receiving a substantial gift from the nanny (such as a new car or a home renovation).\n\nThe families that are eligible for the show usually have four or more children (though some episodes show homes with fewer children), and the children are usually younger than 9 years of age (though also not always the case). The parents usually have an income that allows them to be upper middle-class.\n\nAfter Season Two, the gift portion was removed. In Season Four, Nanny Yvonne did not appear due to budgetary reasons and the format changed. Rather than showing a clip to the nannies then deciding which one would go, Lillian just called one of them and sent them to the family. In some episodes this season, the nanny observes for two days rather than one.\n\n\"Nanny 911\" has been broadcast or slightly adapted in other countries.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2023779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2023779", "title": "The King's University (Edmonton)", "text": "The King's University (Edmonton)\n\nThe King's University located in Edmonton, Alberta, Canada, is a private Canadian Christian university offering bachelor's degrees in the arts, humanities, music, social sciences, natural sciences and business, and education. King’s currently serves more than 900 students from across Canada and abroad, representing more than 16 nations.\n\nOn November 16, 1979, the Alberta Legislature approved The King's College Act which granted a charter to The King's College. King's was founded, by the Christian College Association (Alberta) as The King's College.\n\nIn December 1970, a constitution, and statement of principles gave written expression to their vision of Christian Higher education. King's is a member of the Council for Christian Colleges and Universities. The enabling legislation is the \"Post-secondary Learning Act\".\n\nOn November 2, 1983, an official affiliation agreement was signed with the University of Alberta, ensuring that the great majority of courses at King's would transfer automatically to the University and making various University resources, such as the library and curriculum labs, available to college students. In 1987, The King's College was given the right to grant its first accredited degree, a three-year B.A., with concentrations in a number of disciplines. Since then, it has been authorized to offer many other degree programs, as listed in this calendar.\n\nIn the summer of 1993, the College moved into its first permanent campus. In November of that year, the Alberta legislature approved the bill changing the College's name to The King's University College. In November 2015, the Alberta legislature passed a private member's bill changing the name to \"The King's University\".\n\nKing's partners with other Canadian organizations to provide education opportunities to students. Most notably, in 2011 The King’s Environmental Studies (ENVS) Program was granted professional accreditation from Environmental Careers Organization ECO Canada, the certifying body of the Canadian Environmental Accreditation Commission (CEAC). In 2013 King’s signed an agreement with Newman Theological College to offer Bachelor of Education students the religious education courses necessary to be eligible for a continuous contract with Edmonton Catholic School District.\nIn 2013, King's inaugurated fourth President Dr. Melanie J. Humphreys. Dr. Humphreys took office on July 2, 2013 after the retirement of President Emeritus Dr. J Harry Fernhout (2005-2013). Dr. Fernhout was preceded by Dr. Henk Van Andel (1985- 2005) and founding President Dr. Sidney DeWaal (1979-1983).\n\nIn the early 1990s, The King's University drew attention due to a controversial decision to fire an employee (Delwin Vriend, a lab assistant) because he was gay. Since the Alberta Individual Rights Protection Act did not cover discrimination based on sexual orientation, the Human Rights Commission did not want to investigate it. The employee, however, took his case to court, which decided in 1994 that sexual orientation should be added to the act, a decision appealed by the government and overturned in 1996. But Vriend v. Alberta, brought before the Supreme Court of Canada in 1997 and decided in 1998, with the unanimous decision that \"the exclusion of homosexuals from Alberta's Individual Rights Protection Act is a violation of the Charter of Rights and Freedoms\".\n\nStudents can enroll in over 650 courses across 37 disciplines, with 17 major concentration areas.\nThe King's University offers three-year and four-year bachelor's degrees in the arts, humanities, social sciences, natural sciences, and commerce, as well as a two-year Bachelor of Education after-degree. Prominent programs include the Environmental Studies program and the Politics-History-Economics (PHE) combined major. Currently the university has over 900 students enrolled in Bachelor of Arts, Bachelor of Science, Bachelor of Music, Bachelor of Commerce and Bachelor of Education programs. The King's University accepts academically qualified students of all faiths into its programs.\n\nTraining of undergraduates in laboratory, field, or literary research, is figured prominently at King's. Many projects are collaborative with other universities, non-government organizations, community groups, or international partnerships. The King's Centre for Visualization in Science is developing computer-based teaching tools for high school science teachers to simulate properties and processes in chemistry and physics . Research with implications for social policy include Alberta's oil sands, pluriformity in Alberta's public education system and national delivery of men's health services. Sustainability in business, communities, and resource-based livelihoods in Africa is the research focus of international partnerships with non-government organizations and other universities.\n\nThe King's University library was renamed the Simona Maaskant Library in 1998, after its chief librarian Simona Maaskant. The Simona Maaskant Library contains over 75,000 physical materials (books and audiovisual materials) and 200,000 electronic materials.\n\nThe library is a member of the NEOS Library Consortium therefore offering users access to an additional 10 million materials through the consortium. \n\nThe Simona Maaskant Library also includes a special collections and archives division called The Gerry Segger Heritage Collection. The collection acts as a research centre for archival materials associated with Dutch-Canadians.\n\nThe Micah Centre is focused on transformational development and social justice aims to provide students with further transformative experiences that shape their educational and vocational choices. The Micah Centre hosts the Interdisciplinary Studies Conference, a two-day conference held in the Fall and Winter semesters. Past topics include: Truth and Reconciliation Commission, Economics and Christian Desire, Culture Making, and The Alberta Oilsands.\n\nThe Micah Centre also coordinates The Honduras Water Project, recipients of Alberta's Award of Distinction for Internationalizing the Teaching and Learning Practice, annually sends service-learning teams to a remote Honduran village to both learn about poverty and development firsthand, and work alongside residents in constructing a community water system. Recent Micah internships with global NGO partners have emphasized community organization (Bangladesh), HIV/AIDs (Tanzania), and environmental sustainability (Kenya).\n\nKing's partners with more than 25 off-campus study programs various locations including the Au Sable Institute of Environmental Studies (India, USA), Netherlandic Study Program, China Studies, Russia Studies, Middle East Studies, Film Studies (Los Angeles), and Uganda Studies. International students are eligible for campus employment in university research projects, the library, facility and grounds department, Tamil studies, and food services, among others.\n\n\nFor the last five years, King’s has been a leader in its sector with “top of the class” grades for Student-Faculty Interaction, Class Size, Quality of Teaching, and Most Satisfied Student in \"The Globe and Mail\" Canadian University Report. It was also named best small university in Canada by Maclean’s magazine for several years running. Most recently, King’s was named Most Supportive Campus Environment of any Canadian Institution, as measured by the National Survey of Student Engagement, and is in the top ten per cent of all colleges and universities in North America.\n\nKing's received an A+ rating for overall student satisfaction on the Globe and Mail 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012 Canadian University Reports. \nThe King's University Eagles, compete in the Alberta Colleges Athletics Conference. Team sports include basketball, soccer, badminton and volleyball.\n\nIn the 2008-2009 season, the women's basketball team won their first ever bronze medal.\n\nKing's buildings have floor area of on a site of . Facilities include: 34 classrooms, eight science labs, three computer labs, a greenhouse, fine arts studios, a performance hall with pipe organ, library, gymnasium, spacious cafeteria, Students' Association center, drama space, bookstore, conference rooms, atrium assembly space, outdoor sports fields, and two student residences.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2023780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2023780", "title": "Diotima", "text": "Diotima\n\nDiotima may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2023785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2023785", "title": "Russian hip hop", "text": "Russian hip hop\n\nRussian hip hop refers to hip hop music recorded in Russia or in the Russian language in former Soviet states like Ukraine, Belarus, and Kazakhstan.. Hits by Russian rappers are included in the soundtracks of some PC-games.\n\nPoetry is a big part of Russian culture, which has strong influence on earlier hip hop music. Historically Russia had a similar element to today's hip hop such as Chastushka, where two people would take a turn to perform a poem to upbeat music and use satire for a punch line. A Belarusian artist Seryoga, oftenly combines Western rap with the native Russian chastushka.\n\nThe first attempts of rapping in the Soviet Union took place in 1984 in Samara, when the group \"Час Пик\" (Peak-Hours), led by Aleksandr Astrahov recorded the 25 minute-long gramophone record \"Rap\". The recording was influenced by the music of Grandmaster Flash and Captain Sensible. These experiments were not generally recognized at that time. Until the beginning of the 1990s, there were no rap artists in Russia and the Soviet Union.\n\nThe pioneers of Russian rap were Malchishnik (Мальчи́шник, Russian for \"bachelor party\", a rap group from Moscow), Bogdan Titomir, Mister Maloy, but the recognition of the rap genre came with the rise of Bad Balance and their album \"Naletchiki Bad B.\" released in 1994. Russian hip hop, just like Canadian hip hop, is inspired by Rastafari music, which hit an upswing during the fall of the Soviet Union.\n\nAt the end of the '90s and beginning of the 2000s, Rostov-on-Don was considered the center of Russian hip hop subculture, and the most notable representative was Kasta.\n\nIn the early-2000s, the most popular performers were Kasta, Detsl, and Bad Balance.\n\nMany Russian rap artists have achieved commercial success, including Detsl, Bad Balance, Timati, Basta, Centr, Kasta, and Belarusian artist Seryoga.\n\nIn the mid-2000s, underground bands began to appear and became popular in Moscow (like Smoky Mo, Dymovaya Zavesa, 25/17, Krovostok, Money Makaz, Supreme Playaz, Underwhat, Ddrop, Kazhe Oboima). At the same time in Russia and Belarus, new R&B performers appeared (Maks Lorens, Bianca, Satsura, Band'Eros).\n\nIn the late 2000s, the German rapper ST1M received scandalous popularity after production of his single \"Я Рэп\" (I'm Rap), featuring Seryoga, in which he was dissing nearly all of the most notable Russian rappers. \n\nIn 2007 the group Centr became increasingly popular, partially due to aggressive promotion on the internet, and in 2008 they won an award at the MTV Russia Music Awards. The members of the group were Aleksey Dolmatov, aka Guf, David Nuriev, aka Ptaha (\"ptaha\" means \"a little bird\" in Russian) and Igor Motylyov, aka Slim. Their two albums, «Качели» (Kacheli/Swing) and «Эфир в норме» (Efir v norme /Ether's Fine) became the one of the most popular Russian hip hop albums). In 2008 it won MTV Russia Music Award for Best Hip Hop Project. In 2010 the group disintegrated because of the controversies among its participants and the each of them continued the solo career or joined the other groups. In the 2016 the group reunited and recorded the new album, «Система» (Sistema / The System).\n\nIn 2008 Russian musical channel Muz-TV started a hip-hop show \"Battle for Respect\", which led the winner Ant (Zasada Production) to become highly popular.\n\nIn the late 2000s - early 2010s the new notable performers appeared on the Gazgolder Records label, owned by Basta (such as AK47,(gamora) Triagrutrica, Tati, Charusha, Slovetsky and Skriptonit, the DJ from Kazakhstan).\n\nIn a 2018 speech, Russian President Vladimir Putin denounced rap music, saying that it would lead to the degradation of Russia and that it rested on the pillars of \"sex, drugs and protest.\" He asked the Council for Culture and Art in St Petersburg to bring rap culture to heel, saying \"if it is impossible to stop it, it should be taken over and navigated in a particular way.\"\n"}
{"id": "2023793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2023793", "title": "Christie Golden", "text": "Christie Golden\n\nChristie Golden (born November 21, 1963) is an American author. She has written nearly fifty novels and several short stories in fantasy, horror and science fiction.\n\nGolden has written nearly fifty novels and several short stories in the fields of science fiction, fantasy and horror. Among her many projects are over a dozen Star Trek novels, over a dozen for gaming giant Blizzard's \"World of Warcraft\" and \"StarCraft\" novels, and three books for the now finished \"Fate of the Jedi\" series of \"Star Wars\" novels. Her co-authors on that series were Troy Denning and Aaron Allston.\n\nShe launched TSR's Ravenloft line of novels in 1991 with her first novel - \"Vampire of the Mists\". and is the creator of the elven vampire archetype in fantasy fiction. She followed up with \"Dance of the Dead\" and \"The Enemy Within\". Golden has also written short stories set in the Forgotten Realms, appearing in anthologies series in which she further explores the character of the elven vampire Jander Sunstar, whom she established in \"Vampire of the Mists\". Golden has written at a dozen \"\" novels including the popular \"Dark Matters\" trilogy, the \"Homecoming\" duology, and the \"Spirit Walk\" duology.\n\nGolden is also the author of two original fantasy novels from Ace Books, \"King's Man & Thief\" and \"Instrument of Fate\", which made the 1996 Nebula Preliminary Ballot.\n\nAmong her work in the gaming fantasy novels, she wrote \"\" (2001), and \"\" (December 2006). She also authored a trilogy titled \"StarCraft: the Dark Templar Saga\" for Blizzard Entertainment and Simon and Schuster Pocketbooks. She also wrote \"\" which was released April 21, 2009. It was Golden's first New York Times bestseller. Subsequent Warcraft novels are \"The Shattering: Prelude to Cataclysm,\" \"Thrall: Twilight of the Aspects,\" \"Jaina Proudmoore: Tides of War,\" and \"War Crimes.\"\n\nUnder the name Jadrien Bell she wrote a fantasy thriller entitled \"A.D. 999\", which won her the Colorado Author's League Award for Best Genre Novel in 1999.\n\nShe is currently hoping to reissue her original fantasy series, the Dancers Pentad. The first book in the series \"On Fire's Wings\" follows the discovery of the first of five dancers, Kevla the flame dancer. The second book \"In Stone's Clasp\" records both the flame dancer, Kevla and the stone dancer, the element of earth, Jareth. The book won her a second Colorado Author's League Award for Best Genre Novel in 2005. This series was released through Luna Books.\n\nGolden has also written for \"Buffy the Vampire Slayer\" and \"Angel\" anthologies. She has written novels based on Steven Spielberg's \"Invasion America\" animated television show, and film producer and screenwriter Harve Bennett was so impressed with her \"Invasion America\" work that he invited her to Hollywood to write for the show - however, the show was not renewed for a second season.\n\nGolden has authored four \"Assassin's Creed\" works. Her first, \"Blackbeard: The Lost Journal\", is a companion piece for the video game \"\". Another \"Assassin's Creed\" book, the in-universe \"Abstergo Employee Handbook\" hit shelves in December 2014. \"The Accidental Knight,\" a novel set in the world of Cryptozoic's online card game, HEX, will be published later in 2014 as an online book, with a hard copy version to follow. Her \"Star Wars: The Clone Wars\" novel titled \"\" was published in July 2015. And in 2017 she published the official movie novelization of \"Valerian and the City of a Thousand Planets\" through Titan Books - .\n\nGolden was born on November 21, 1963 in Atlanta, Georgia, USA. She currently resides in Michigan.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2023809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2023809", "title": "Marina Cooper", "text": "Marina Cooper\n\nMarina Nadine Cooper Lewis is a fictional character on the popular CBS daytime soap opera, \"Guiding Light\". The character is the only child of police chief, Frank Cooper, and ex-wife, Eleni Andros and was born on-screen on May 8, 1993. In December 2001, her birth year was SORASed to 1985. The character has been portrayed by six different actresses with Mandy Bruno currently playing the role on \"Guiding Light\" since May 24, 2004.\n\nMarina became a police recruit after being accepted at Springfield's Police Academy following the footsteps of her father and aunt before her. Her love interest at the time, Danny Santos, was a former mobster. As of 2007, she became a detective.\n\nIn 2009, the character of Marina has become embroiled in the Edmund Winslow murder mystery and has been featured very prominently when she was thought to be his killer, even though he was revealed to be alive. Marina married A.C. Mallet but is confronted by the return of her ex-boyfriend Shayne Lewis. After adopting a son, Henry, with Mallet, it was soon revealed that Shayne and his girlfriend Lara were the child's biological parents. After annulling his marriage to Dinah, who fled town to avoid being charged with the murder of a man she thought was Edmund Winslow, Shayne wanted to become a real father to his son. Later, Mallet left town, because he didn't want his son to have two fathers, and left Marina to raise Henry with Shayne. After divorcing Mallet, Marina is shown with Shayne parenting Henry, they are possibly married.\n\nMarina is the only child of Frank Cooper and Eleni Andros, who married the same day of Marina's birth. They separated in 2000 as their workaholic personalities led them to drift apart. After Eleni's affair was discovered, they divorced; it was an event that Marina did not forgive her mother easily for. Though she moved away and lived with Eleni in Los Angeles after her parents' break-up, she returned in December 2001 after running away from California. Though her parents considered re-uniting for Marina's sake, Eleni eventually left Springfield once more acquiescing to Marina's desire to live with her family, garnering extremely negative reaction from fans because of the characters unpopularity.\n\n"}
{"id": "2023819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2023819", "title": "Stateless nation", "text": "Stateless nation\n\nA stateless nation is an ethnic group or nation that does not possess its own state and is not the majority population in any nation state. The term \"stateless\" implies that the group \"should have\" such a state. Members of stateless nations may be citizens of the country in which they live, or they may be denied citizenship by that country. Stateless nations are usually not represented in international sports or in international organisations such as the United Nations. Nations without state are classified as fourth-world nations. Some of the stateless nations have a history of statehood, some were always a stateless nation, dominated by another nation.\n\nThe term was coined in 1983 by political scientist Jacques Leruez in his book \"L'Écosse, une nation sans État\" about the peculiar position of Scotland within the British state. It was later adopted and popularized by Scottish scholars such as David McCrone, Michael Keating and T. M. Devine.\n\nStateless nations either are dispersed across a number of states (for example, the Yoruba people are found in the African states of Nigeria, Benin and Togo) or form the native population of a province within a larger state (such as the Uyghur people in the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region within the People's Republic of China). Some stateless nations historically had a state, which was absorbed by another; for example, Tibet's declaration of independence in 1913 was not recognized, and it was invaded in 1951 by the People's Republic of China which claims that Tibet is an integral part of China, while the Tibetan government-in-exile maintains that Tibet is an independent state under an unlawful occupation. Some ethnic groups were once a stateless nation that later became a nation state (for example, the nations of the Balkans such as the Croats, Serbs, Bosniaks, Slovenes, Montenegrins and Macedonians were once part of a multinational state of Yugoslavia; since the breakup of Yugoslavia many nation states were formed).\n\nStateless nations can have large populations; for example the Kurds have an estimated population of over 30 million people, which make them one of the largest stateless nations. Multiple stateless nations can reside in the same geographical region or country; for example, Cantabrians, Bercians, Catalans, Canarians, Castillians, Basques, Aragonese, Galicians, Asturians, Valencians and Andalusians within Spanish State, or the Brahui, Santhals, Maithils and Balochs in South Asia, or Rohingya in Myanmar, and Kabyle People within Algeria in North Africa. However, not all peoples within multi-cultural states have the same awareness of being a stateless nation. In Spain, only Basques and Catalans have claimed their right of self-determination, which in the Basque country gave rise to the militant movement ETA, and in the case of Catalonia, has led to multiple attempts to secede from Spain during the past four centuries, as an independent Catalan Republic.\n\nAs not all states are nation states, there are ethnic groups who live in multinational states without being considered \"stateless nations\".\n\nThe symbiotic relationship between nations and states arose in early modern Western Europe (18th century) and it was exported to the rest of the world through colonial rule. Whereas the Western European nation-states are at present relinquishing some of their powers to the European Union, many of the former colonies are now the zealous defenders of the concept of national-statehood.\n\nOnly a small fraction of the world's national groups have associated nation-states. The proportion was estimated to be 3 percent by Minahan. The rest are distributed in one or more states. Of the 192 member states of the United Nations in 2006, fewer than 20 are nation-states. Thus nation-states are not as common as often assumed, and stateless nations are the overwhelming majority of nations in the world.\n\nDuring the imperial and colonial era, powerful nations extended their influence outside their homeland and this resulted in many colonized nations ceasing to be self-governing and have since been described as stateless nations. Some nations have been victims of \"carve out\" and their homeland was divided among several countries. Even today the colonial boundaries form modern national boundaries. These often differ from cultural boundaries. This results in situations where people of the same language or culture are divided by national borders, for example New Guinea splits as West Papua (former Dutch colony) and Papua New Guinea (former British colony). During decolonization, the colonial powers imposed a unified state structure irrespective of the ethnic differences and granted independence to their colonies as a multinational state. This led to successor states with many minority ethnic groups in them, which increased the potential for ethnic conflicts. Some of these minority groups campaigned for self-determination. Stateless nations were not protected in all countries and become victims of atrocities such as discrimination, ethnic cleansing, genocide, forced assimilation, Exploitation of labour and natural resources.\n\nPeople with a common origin, history, language, culture, customs or religion can turn into a nation by awakening of national consciousness. A nation can exist without a state, as is exemplified by the stateless nations. Citizenship is not always the nationality of a person. In a multinational state different national identities can coexist or compete: for example, in Britain English nationalism, Scottish nationalism and Welsh nationalism exist and are held together by British nationalism. Nationalism is often connected to separatism, because a nation achieves completeness through its independence.\n\nThroughout history, numerous nations declared their independence, but not all succeeded in establishing a state. Even today, there are active autonomy and independence movements around the world. The claim of the stateless nations to self-determination is often denied due to geopolitical interests and increasing globalization of the world. Stateless nations sometimes show solidarity with other stateless nations and maintain diplomatic relations.\n\nNot all peoples claim that they are nations or aspire to be states. Some see themselves as part of the multinational state and they believe that their interests are well represented in it. This is also associated with Pan-nationalism (Indian nationalism or Chinese nationalism).\n\nThe following is a list of stateless nations that meet these criteria:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2023822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2023822", "title": "Eden's Bowy", "text": "Eden's Bowy\n\nAfter human civilization were destroyed and rebuilt for several times, the world was now a place where three floating continents: Yulgaha, Yanuess, and Urt, move slowly through the sky. People living on the ground referred those floating lands as \"Ëdens\". Yorn, a boy born to Yoniha the Foreseeing Maiden on Yulgaha, was separated from his mother and brought to live on the surface when he was five years old. He was then adopted by Gastini, a former swordsman now a farmer, and raised along with Gastini's three sons: Moes, Miel, and their younger brother.\n\nTen years later, Yulgaha sent Witto and Hairra to investigate Yorn, as the boy who turned out to be a \"God Killer\". They met a mysterious swordsman, later known as \"Old Man\" (\"Oyaji\") by Yorn, and headed to Gastini's farm. Meanwhile, Yorn encountered Elisiss, a mysterious girl who fell from the sky, and hid her in his workshop.\n\nA while later, Yorn had a physical fight with Moes and Miel. The fight ended up both Yorn and Miel hurt while Moes ran away. Both Yorn and Miel were healed by Elisiss, while Moes were killed by Hairra and transformed into a puppet. Hairra and Witto's Claymen then attacked on Gastini's house, killing him.\n\nUpon returning home, Yorn and Miel were attacked by Hairra and Claymen. Yorn's sword was broken by a Clayman, but Elisiss managed to fix and upgrade the sword. After defeating Claymen with his sword, Yorn had to battle Old Man. When observing the battle, Hairra recognized the Old Man was in fact Ulgar Dyne, a swordsman who won his place to live in Yulgaha but escaped years ago, and decided to kill both Yorn and Ulgar. Seeda, another mysterious girl, intervened and saved them both. Seeda and Ulgar managed defeated Hairra and reanimated Moes respectively before Hairra escaped.\n\nAfter the battle, Seeda told Yorn had to begin a journey. Before leaving, Yorn learned from Ulgar that there was a tournament, which held every ten years and granted the champion to live in Ëdens. In order to return to Yulgaha and reunite with his mother, Yorn decided to fight in the tournament, which would be held three years later, while Ulgar agreed to train him during the journey.\n\nThe story is set in a world where two floating islands named Yulgaha and Yanuess slowly move through the sky. The people on the ground named these islands \"Ëdens\", and they control all the land. A boy, Yorn, was born on Yulgaha, but in his infancy, he was separated from his mother and brought to live on the surface. Although the foster father that raised him was poor, Yorn grew into a bright, chipper young man.\n\nOne day, Yorn is attacked by Hairra, a woman who is later revealed to be a puppet from Yulgaha, while he is forging a sword. When she breaks the sword and attempts to kill him, his father sacrifices himself to save Yorn. Hairra proceeds to incapacitate Yorn, but is prevented from killing him by the arrival of a mysterious young girl. The girl picks up the hilt of Yorn's sword and drives it into her hand, magically transforming it into the sword of the God hunter.\n\nHairra attempts to kill her, but she transforms into a young woman armed with a staff (Seeda) and fights back. During this battle, Yorn's powers as a God-Hunter are awakened by the sword and he enters the battle. Using a massive energy blast emanating from the sword, he drives off Hairra and her brother. During the interim, the mysterious girl disappears. She rejoins him later when both are caught by the Chosen of Yulgaha for drinking from a desert oasis that was sacred to Yulgaha, and after a series of events they and the old man Yorn met after the conflict with Hairra set off for Rubeet.\n\nThey come to a village that is being attacked by a white leopard. The young girl wanders off into the forest after a dance that told the story of the God Hunter. Searching for her, Yorn, the old man and some of the villagers go into the forest to search for her. They find her (caught in a trap that had been meant for the leopard), but shortly after that the white leopard attacks. It attacks the village chief but is driven off by the old man. It finds Yorn and the young girl, but does not attack. The young girl follows it, and when Yorn gets back the strength to search for her, he overhears her talking to someone. As he follows the voice of the girl to its source, he finds her name is Elisiss. When he finds her, it turns out that she had been talking to the leopard. He puts himself between the two, but Elisiss then puts herself between him and the leopard, protecting it. Shortly after that, the leopard is attacked by someone who looks similar to Yorn. Elisiss again interposes herself between the leopard and its assailant, but he is only stopped when Yorn parries his blade. He is stronger than Yorn, however, and knocks his sword out of his hands and to the ground. He spares Yorn however, and introduces himself as Spike Randit, another God Hunter, before leaving.\n\nWhile Yorn is trying reconcile the fact that he is a God Hunter with himself, not quite able to believe it, Elisiss licks his wound. This somehow heals it, and prompts a bit of teasing from the old man. Afterwards, when the talk turns to the white leopard, Elisiss tells them it is her sister and will not be seen in the forest again.\n\nThey then leave to continue their journey.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2023824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2023824", "title": "National Iranian Oil Company", "text": "National Iranian Oil Company\n\nThe National Iranian Oil Company (NIOC; ) is a government-owned national oil and natural gas producer and distributor under the direction of the Ministry of Petroleum of Iran. NIOC was established in 1948 and restructured under The Consortium Agreement of 1954. NIOC ranks as the world's second largest oil company, after Saudi Arabia's state-owned Aramco.\n\nThe NIOC is exclusively responsible for the exploration, drilling, production, distribution and export of crude oil, as well as exploration, extraction and sales of natural gas and liquefied natural gas (LNG). NIOC exports its surplus production according to commercial considerations determined by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) and at the prices prevalent in the international markets. In early 2015 NIOC's recoverable liquid hydrocarbon reserves was (10% of world's total) and recoverable gas reserves were 33.79 m (15% of world's total). Current NIOC production capacities include over of crude oil and in excess of 750 million cubic meters of natural gas per day. Iran's overall export crude oil was valued at US$85 billion in 2010.\n\nIn May 1901, William Knox D'Arcy was granted a concession by the Shah of Iran to search for oil, which he discovered in May 1908. This was the first commercially significant find in the Middle East. In 1923, Burmah employed future Prime Minister, Winston Churchill as a paid consultant; to lobby the British government to allow the Anglo-Persian Oil Company (APOC) to have exclusive rights to Persian oil resources, which were successfully granted.\n\nIn 1935, Rezā Shāh requested the international community to refer to Persia as 'Iran', which was reflected in the name change of the Anglo-Persian Oil Company (APOC) to the Anglo-Iranian Oil Company (AIOC). Following World War II, Iranian nationalism was on the rise, especially surrounding the Iranian natural resources being exploited by the foreign companies without adequately compensating Iranian taxpayers. AIOC and the pro western Iranian government led by Prime Minister Ali Razmara, initially resisted nationalist pressure to revise AIOC's concession terms still further in Iran's favour. In March 1951, Ali Razmara was assassinated; and Mohammed Mossadeq, a nationalist, was elected as the new prime minister by the Majlis of Iran.\n\nIn April 1951, the Majlis nationalized the Iranian oil industry by a unanimous vote, and the National Iranian Oil Company (NIOC) was formed, displacing the AIOC. The AIOC withdrew its management from Iran and organised an effective worldwide embargo of Iranian oil. The British government, which owned the AIOC, contested the nationalization at the International Court of Justice at The Hague, but its complaint was dismissed.\n\nBy the spring of 1953, incoming US President Dwight D. Eisenhower authorised the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), to organise a coup against the Mossadeq government, the 1953 Iranian coup d'état. In August 1953, the coup brought pro-Western general Fazlollah Zahedi to power as the new PM, along with the return to Iran of the Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi from his brief exile in Italy. The anti-Mossadeq plan was orchestrated by the CIA under the code-name 'Operation Ajax', and by the British SIS (MI6) as 'Operation Boot'.\n\nIn 1954, the AIOC became the British Petroleum Company. The return of the shah had not meant that British Petroleum was able to monopolise Iranian oil as before. Under pressure from United States, British Petroleum reluctantly accepted membership in a consortium of companies, founded in October 1954, to bring back Iranian oil to the international market. It was incorporated in London as a holding company called 'Iranian Oil Participants Ltd' (IOP). The founding members of IOP included British Petroleum (40%), Gulf (later Chevron, 8%), Royal Dutch Shell (14%), and Compagnie Française des Pétroles (later Total S.A., 6%). The four Aramco partners - Standard Oil of California (SoCal, later Chevron) - Standard Oil of New Jersey (later Exxon, then ExxonMobil) - Standard Oil Co. of New York (later Mobil, then ExxonMobil) - Texaco (later Chevron) - each held an 8% stake in the holding company.\n\nAll IOP members acknowledged that NIOC owned the oil and facilities in Iran, and IOP's role was to operate and manage them on behalf of NIOC. To facilitate that, IOP established two operating entities incorporated in the Netherlands, and both were delegated to NIOC. Similar to the Saudi-Aramco \"50/50\" agreement of 1950, the IOP consortium agreed to share profits on a 50–50 basis with Iran, \"but not to open its books to Iranian auditors or to allow Iranians onto its board of directors\". The negotiations leading to the creation of the consortium, during 1954-55, were considered a feat of skillful diplomacy.\n\nIn Iran, IOP continued to operate until the Islamic Revolution in 1979. The new regime of Ayatollah Khomeini confiscated all of the company's assets in Iran. According to the company's Web site: The victory of the Islamic revolution annulled the Consortium Agreement of 1954 and all regulations pertaining to it. The taking of power in Iran by the new Islamic Republic led to the withdrawal of foreign employees from Iran's oil industry, and Iranians took full control of its affairs.\n\nAccording to OPEC, NIOC recoverable liquid hydrocarbon reserves at the end of 2006 was .\n\nNIOC oil reserves at the beginning of 2001 was reported to be about , however in 2002 the result of NIOC's study showed huge reserves upgrade adding about of recoverable reserves to the Iranian oil reserves.\n\nAfter 2003 Iran made some significant discoveries which led to addition of another of oil to the recoverable reserves of Iran.\n\nThe vast majority of Iran's crude oil reserves are located in giant onshore fields in the south-western Khuzestan region near the Iraqi border. Overall, Iran has 40 producing fields – 27 onshore and 13 offshore. Iran's crude oil is generally medium in sulfur and in the 28°-35 °API range.\n\nAs at 2012, 98 rigs are in operation in onshore fields, 24 in offshore fields and a single rig is in operation in the Caspian Sea. Iran plans to increase the number of its drilling rigs operating in its onshore and offshore oilfields by 36 units to reach 134 units by March 2014.\n\nTable 1- The biggest NIOC oil fields;\n\nIran began in 2006 with plans to create a global strategic petroleum reserve with the construction of 15 crude oil storage tanks with a planned capacity of . The storage capacity of oil products in the country is around 11.5 billion liters (2011), but it will reach 16.7 billion liters by the end of the Fifth Five Year Development Plan (2010-2015). As of 2012, Iran is capable of storing crude oil in the Persian Gulf for a period of 10–12 days. The figure should hit 30–40 days after the construction of new storage facilities are completed.\n\nNIOC holds about of proven Natural gas reserves of which 36% are as associated gas and 64% is in non associated gas fields. It stands for world's second largest reserves after Russia.\n\nNIOC's ten biggest Non-Associated Gas Fields;\n\nSince 1995, National Iranian Oil Company (NIOC) has made significant oil and gas discoveries, standing for some of oil in place and at least of gas in place, which are listed below.\n\nThe company is completely owned by Iranian government. NIOC's General Assembly (GA) consists of:\n\nThe GA is its highest decision making body, determining the company's general policy guide lines, and approving the annual budgets, operations and financial statements and balance sheets. The company's board of directors has the authority and major responsibilities to approve the operational schemes within the general framework ratified by the General Assembly, approve transactions and contracts, and prepare budgets and Board reports and annual balance sheets for presentation to the General Assembly.\n\nThe Board supervises the implementation of general policy guidelines defined by the General Assembly, and pursues executive operations via the company's Managing Director.\n\nWith appropriate division of tasks and delegation of responsibilities to subsidiaries- affiliates, NIOC has been able to establish acceptable degrees of coordination within its\norganizational set up. In fact, NIOC's Directors act primarily in policy making and supervision while subsidiaries act as their executive arm in coordinating an array of operations such as exploration, drilling, production and delivery of crude oil and natural gas, for export and domestic consumption.\n\nThe NIOC's subsidiaries are as follows:\n\nThe cost of producing each barrel will rise to $30 or more from $7 in 2012.\n\nIran currently allocates $20 billion a year to develop fields and $10 billion on maintaining output. In the next decade, maintaining production will cost $50 billion, with a similar sum required for development. This does not include development and investment costs in related fields such as Petrochemicals.\n\nAlthough usually neglected and overlooked, Iran also has a number of very active private companies in the oil sector. The growing private sector activity is mainly active in projects involving the construction of oil field units, refinery equipment, tanks and pipelines, as well as engineering. Iranian manufacturers will supply oil industry with $10 billion worth of domestically-made goods and equipment in 2012.\n\nIran's Press TV claimed in 2011 that Iranian companies are outperforming foreign firms in South Pars. NIOC produces 60-70% of its industrial equipment domestically including refineries, oil tankers, oil rigs, offshore platforms and exploration instruments. Iran is also cooperating with foreign companies to transfer technology to Iranian oil industry. The objective is to become self-sufficient by 85% before 2015. The strategic goods include onshore and offshore drilling rigs, pumps, turbines and precision tools. Domestic production of 52 petrochemical catalysts will be started in 2013. As of 2015, Iran had reached most of its above mentioned objectives in manufacturing.\n\nIn 2019, the government sub-contracted projects worth 6.2 billion to domestic contractors. Pending projects include domestication of wellhead equipment, desalinating packages, anti-corrosions, sulfur recovery catalysts, wellhead control panels, among others. According to NIOC in 2019, Iran was manufacturing 12,000 components and complicated equipment of the petroleum industry.\n\n\nAccording to geographer Richard Heede, is 3rd on the list of companies with the highest level of CO2 emissions globally with in 2013, amounting to more than 3.1% of worldwide anthropogenic emissions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2023826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2023826", "title": "Dallas McPherson", "text": "Dallas McPherson\n\nDallas Lyle McPherson (born July 23, 1980) is an American former professional baseball third baseman and current minor league coach. He played in Major League Baseball (MLB) for the Anaheim Angels / Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim, Florida Marlins, and Chicago White Sox.\n\nMcPherson played at Randleman High School in Randleman, North Carolina. He was selected by the Atlanta Braves in the 44th round (1323rd overall) of the 1998 First-Year Player Draft, but chose to go to college instead.\n\nMcPherson attended The Citadel, where he played college baseball from to . In 2000, he played collegiate summer baseball with the Cotuit Kettleers of the Cape Cod Baseball League. He was the second round draft pick (57th overall) of the Anaheim Angels in the 2001 First-Year Player Draft.\n\nIn 2002, McPherson played for the Angels affiliate the Cedar Rapids Kernels. He ended the season with a .277 batting average with 15 home runs with 30 stolen bases and lead the team with 88 RBIs and 78 bases-on-balls. He was the Angels minor league player of the year, Baseball America minor league player of the year and California League all-star in 2003, when he hit .308 with 18 homers for the A+ Rancho Cucamonga Quakes. Midway through his 2004 season, he shot up the ranks from Double-A minor league affiliate Arkansas Travelers to the Triple-A Salt Lake Stingers (now Salt Lake Bees).\n\nAfter repeating as the Angels and Baseball America's minor league player of the year in 2004 (.313 with 20 homers for Salt Lake), McPherson was a September call-up by the Angels to fill their 40-man expanded roster. He made his Major League debut on September 10, 2004, against the Chicago White Sox as a pinch runner. His first hit was a double to left field off of Ryan Franklin of the Seattle Mariners on September 20. With third baseman Troy Glaus limited to the designated hitter role due to a shoulder injury, McPherson started 11 games down the stretch beginning on September 20 and was the Angels' starting third baseman in their playoff series versus the Boston Red Sox.\n\nHis rookie season in 2005 started out sluggishly, with his batting average usually around or below the Mendoza Line in April. Approximately one-third into the season, McPherson's bat heated up and he began hitting like he had been projected to do, including knocking in a pair of game-winning home runs in a series against the Kansas City Royals. His season was truncated by a hip injury, however. He underwent surgery in August 2005 to remove bone spurs.\n\nEntering spring training in 2006, McPherson was expected to compete to be the Angels' starting third baseman. However, he did not hit well during the exhibition season, and that job fell to Chone Figgins, leaving no role on the team for McPherson. As a result, McPherson began the 2006 campaign in the minor leagues. After re-discovering his home run stroke at Salt Lake, the Angels called McPherson back to the active roster in May.\n\nMcPherson spent the entirety of the 2007 season on the disabled list after choosing to have back surgery to fuse two vertebrate in his back. McPherson was not offered a new contract by the Angels and became a free agent on December 12, 2007.\n\nHe signed a one-year deal with the Florida Marlins on January 31, . Playing for the Triple-A Albuquerque Isotopes, he batted .275 with 42 home runs and 98 RBI. His 42 home runs led the minor leagues in 2008. He was called up on September 1, 2008 and had two hits in 11 at-bats.\n\nOn March 31, , McPherson was released by the Marlins.\n\nOn April 11, 2009 McPherson was signed to a minor league contract by the San Francisco Giants. However, he never played a game for any team in the Giants system in 2009 due to recurring back problems.\n\nOn November 20, 2009 McPherson was signed to a minor league contract with the Oakland Athletics, with an invitation to spring training; He was expected to compete for the starting 3rd base position. But with more injury problems, Mc Pherson found himself playing with the Oakland A's Pacific Coast League affiliate, the Sacramento River Cats. In 84 games, he hit .267 with 22 home runs and 75 RBI.\n\nMcPherson signed a minor league contract with the Chicago White Sox on November 17, 2010. He began the season in the minors with the Charlotte Knights. He had his contract purchased by the White Sox on May 17, 2011 but was designated for assignment on May 30 after only playing in 11 games and hitting .133.\n\nOn August 2, 2012, McPherson was released by the White Sox. He was hitting .253 with 12 HR and 47 RBI in 61 games with Charlotte.\n\nMcPherson signed with the Pittsburgh Pirates in August 2012. In 22 games with the Indianapolis Indians, he hit .299.\n\nOn December 21, 2012, he signed a minor league contract with the Los Angeles Dodgers. He was released on March 20, 2013.\n\nOn May 28, 2013, McPherson signed with the York Revolution of the Atlantic League of Professional Baseball. He was released on June 1, 2013.\n\nOn January 10, 2018, McPherson was announced as the manager of the Short Season-A Vancouver Canadians. A year later, he was promoted to the Single-A Lansing Lugnuts.\n\n"}
{"id": "2023833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2023833", "title": "Railroaded!", "text": "Railroaded!\n\nRailroaded! is a 1947 American crime film noir directed by Anthony Mann starring John Ireland, Sheila Ryan, Hugh Beaumont and Jane Randolph.\n\nIt was loosely based on the real-life case of Majczek and Marcinkiewicz, the same case that inspired \"Call Northside 777\".\n\nThe innocent owner of a van that is unsuspectingly used in a back-room bookie operation robbery is \"railroaded\" (informal, refers to the conviction of someone based on false or weak evidence without proper corroboration) for the killing of a cop during the getaway.\n\nClara Calhoun is a beautician with a shop in New York. Her shop is in fact a front for a bookmaking operation. One evening when she closes up for the night, she gives a silent signal to two masked gunmen lurking outside. These two bandits then burst into the shop and hold up both Clara and her unsuspecting assistant, Marie Westin. The money they get hold of is betting money from the illegal operation.\n\nDuring the robbery, a policeman on patrol in the neighborhood hears Marie's screams. He sees the hold up and tries to interrupt the robbery. When the policeman intervenes, he shoots one of the robbers, \"Cowie\" Kowalski, but is then shot and killed by the other robber, Duke Martin. The two robbers then escape the scene in a laundry truck, and Duke drops off Cowie at a doctor's house for medical care. Before leaving Duke reminds Cowie of the plan to implicate a certain Steve Ryan in the crime.\n\nLater on, Clara and Marie are interrogated by detectives Mickey Ferguson and Jim Chubb. Marie describes both robbers as black-haired, but Clara insists that one of them, the \"shooter\", had sandy hair. Clara's version is believed, and soon the sandy-haired Steve Ryan, who usually drives the laundry truck and whose Navy scarf was found at the shop, is found and brought in for questioning. After a round of tough questioning by Mickey and Chubb, Steve is then taken to a hospital, where Cowie identifies him as the killer.\n\nSteve claims that he is framed by Cowie for something he didn't do. He says the reason for this is that he beat him up for making a pass at his sister Rosie. But the detectives don't believe Steve's story. Clara too confirms Cowie's identification, and the unfortunate Steve is arrested. Steve's sister Rosie is sure of her brother's innocence.\n\nRosie pleads her brother's case to detective Mickey, but he is quite convinced of Steve's guilt and intends to perform a thorough investigation. Clara, who has come up with the robbery scheme together with Duke, who in fact is her boyfriend, starts drinking heavily, angering Duke in the process. Their plan was to steal the money from Jacklin Ainsworth, Clara's gambling boss and the owner of the Club Bombay.\n\nWhen it turns out Cowie dies from his gunshot wound, Rosie goes over to Clara's apartment and confronts her about her identification. A fight ensues between the two women. Duke watches the fight in hiding, and afterwards, Duke enters the room and tells Clara he will \"straighten out\" Marie before Rosie talks with her. Duke also tells Clara that she should lay low and disappear for a while, until Steve's trial. Rosie goes straight to Marie's beauty salon, but is unable to find her. Also looking for Marie is Mickey, and he finds her outside the shop and offers her a ride home. Rosie accepts the ride, and on the way, Mickey confesses his doubts about Steve's guilt.\n\nBack at home, Rosie receives a message from Duke, telling her to come to the Club Bombay, where he normally works as manager. Rosie goes to meet Duke at the club, and in the meantime Mickey breaks into and inspects Clara's now-deserted apartment. He finds a lead in a photograph of Duke, and connects the two. Since Mickey has had dealings with Duke before, he recognizes the photo and goes to the club to question Duke about his relation to Clara.\n\nDuke suggests to Rosie that he knows who is framing Steve, and Rosie denounces Mickey in front of Duke. Mickey doesn't give up though, concernedly warning Rosie to stay away from Duke. However, Rosie is determined to do anything to get her Steve off the hook, and puts more trust in Duke. In an attempt to disclose the relation between Clara and Duke, Mickey waits outside Clara's hideout apartment. When Duke appears and is about to enter the building, Mickey makes his presence known to him.\n\nDuke tries to get out of the implicating situation by accusing Clara of double-crossing him. He then runs off, and Mickey goes inside to speak with her. Mickey tells her that Marie has been found dead in the river. Because of this, he advises Clara to call him later at Rosie's house, for her own protection. Meanwhile, Duke has found another solution to his problem, by convincing an alcoholic named Wino to confess to the robbery in exchange for a sum of money. He then talks to Rosie and assures her that Wino's statements will get Steve out of jail.\n\nRosie buys the whole concept and goes home to get money for Wino. Duke goes back to Clara's apartment, but she isn't there. After some searching he finds the frightened Clara calling Mickey at a drugstore. Clara arranges to meet Mickey at her apartment, but before the detective arrives, Duke shoots her down. Duke then goes to the Club Bombay and shoots and robs Ainsworth. Aware that Clara had called Rosie's phone number, Duke waits for Rosie at the club and accuses her of betraying him.\n\nJust when Duke is about to shoot Rosie too, Mickey arrives with the police, having ordered a raid on the club. In the ensuing commotion, Duke manages to fire a round at Rosie, and wounds her, but not fatally. Duke is then killed in a shootout with Mickey. Steve is eventually released from jail and Mickey and Rosie kiss each other.\n\n\nCritic Roger Westcombe praised the film, writing, \"It's a standard frame-up story, solidified through the strength of Mann's directing skills beyond the merits of the material. Preceding his now legendary teaming with cinematographer John Alton for the unbeatable run of \"Raw Deal\", \"T-Men\", \"Border Incident\", and \"He Walked by Night\", \"Railroaded!\" is still very dark but grim. The absence of Alton's breathtaking set-ups pedestrianises this effort into something merely heavy-handed. Mann’s transitional work \"Desperate\" (1947), also pre-Alton, gained an edge of complexity through Raymond Burr's latent menace and a more nuanced study of human corruption than is found here. Yet for all these shortcomings \"Railroaded's\" tension is remarkably well maintained, primarily due to the acting of all the principals.\"\n\nFilm critic Dennis Schwartz, gave the film a mixed review, writing, \"A second-rate crime thriller made before Anthony Mann (\"Desperate\") reached prime time. \"Railroaded\" is a well-crafted and fast-paced mystery tale. It's a low-budget film noir that is held together by John Ireland's nasty performance as the heartless villain without redemption ... The plot was uninteresting and predictable, while the acting was so-so.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2023836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2023836", "title": "Employment Division v. Smith", "text": "Employment Division v. Smith\n\nEmployment Division, Department of Human Resources of Oregon v. Smith, 494 U.S. 872 (1990), is a United States Supreme Court case that held that the state could deny unemployment benefits to a person fired for violating a state prohibition on the use of peyote, even though the use of the drug was part of a religious ritual. Although states have the power to accommodate otherwise illegal acts performed in pursuit of religious beliefs, they are not required to do so.\n\nAlfred Leo Smith and Galen Black were members of the Native American Church and counselors at a private drug rehabilitation clinic. They were fired because they had ingested peyote, a powerful entheogen, as part of their religious ceremonies as members of the Native American Church. At the time, intentional possession of peyote was a crime under Oregon law without an affirmative defense for religious use. The counselors filed a claim for unemployment compensation with the state, but the claim was denied because the reason for their dismissal was deemed work-related \"misconduct.\" The Oregon Court of Appeals reversed that ruling, holding that denying them unemployment benefits for their religious use of peyote violated their right to exercise their religion. The Oregon Supreme Court agreed, although it relied not on the fact that peyote use was a crime but on the fact that the state's justification for withholding the benefits—preserving the \"financial integrity\" of the workers' compensation fund—was outweighed by the burden imposed on the employees' exercise of their religion. The state appealed to the U.S. Supreme Court, again arguing that denying the unemployment benefits was proper because possession of peyote was a crime.\n\nThe U.S. Supreme Court let stand the Oregon Supreme Court's judgment regarding the two employees and returned the case to the Oregon courts to determine whether or not sacramental use of illegal drugs violated Oregon's state drug laws (485 U.S. 660 (1988)). On remand, the Oregon Supreme Court concluded that while Oregon drug law prohibited the consumption of illegal drugs for sacramental religious uses, this prohibition violated the free exercise clause. The state asked the U.S. Supreme Court to review this second decision of the Oregon Supreme Court, and it agreed to do so. In earlier rulings, the Court had decided that the government could not condition access to unemployment insurance or other benefits on an individual's willingness to give up conduct required by their religion. However, the Supreme Court did not find that this principle also applied when the conduct in question is justifiably prohibited by law.\n\nOf particular importance was the fact that the Oregon law was not directed at the Native Americans' religious practice specifically; thus, it was deemed constitutional when applied to all citizens:\nThe majority opinion was delivered by Justice Antonin Scalia. The First Amendment forbids government from prohibiting the \"free exercise\" of religion. This means that government may not regulate beliefs as such, either by compelling certain beliefs or forbidding them. Religious belief frequently entails the performance of physical acts—assembling for worship, consumption of bread and wine, abstaining from certain foods or behaviors. Government could no more ban the performance of these physical acts when engaged in for religious reasons than it could ban the religious beliefs that compel those actions in the first place. \"It would doubtless be unconstitutional, for example, to ban the casting of statues that are to be used for worship purposes or to prohibit bowing down before a golden calf.\"\n\nBut Oregon's ban on the possession of peyote is not a law specifically aimed at a physical act engaged in for a religious reason. Rather, it is a law that applies to everyone who might possess peyote, for whatever reason—a \"neutral law of general applicability\". Scalia characterized the employees' argument as an attempt to use their religious motivation to use peyote in order to place themselves beyond the reach of Oregon's neutral, generally applicable ban on the possession of peyote. The Court held that the First Amendment's protection of the \"free exercise\" of religion does not allow a person to use a religious motivation as a reason not to obey such generally applicable laws. Citing the \"Reynolds v. United States\" (1878) decision: \"To permit this would be to make the professed doctrines of religious belief superior to the law of the land, and in effect to permit every citizen to become a law unto himself.\" Thus, the Court had held that religious beliefs did not excuse people from complying with laws forbidding polygamy, child labor laws, Sunday closing laws, laws requiring citizens to register for Selective Service, and laws requiring the payment of Social Security taxes.\n\nBy contrast, the cases in which the Court had allowed a religious motivation to exempt a person from a neutral, generally applicable law involved the assertion of both the right of free exercise along with some other right. Thus, religious publishers are exempt from a law requiring them to obtain a license if that license may be denied to any publisher the government deems nonreligious. The government may not tax religious solicitors. The government may not require the Amish to send their children to school because their religion demands otherwise, and Amish parents, like all parents, have the right to direct the education of their children. Because Smith and Black were not asserting a hybrid right, they could not claim a religious exemption under the First Amendment from Oregon's ban on peyote.\n\nSmith and Black had argued that at the very least, the Court should only uphold Oregon's ban on peyote as applied to them if Oregon had a compelling interest in prohibiting their religious use of peyote. The Court had invalidated three other unemployment compensation restrictions under this standard. But those other restrictions themselves required consideration of individualized circumstances, such as when unemployment compensation was denied to a person who could not, for religious reasons, work on Saturdays. If a state has in place a system of individualized consideration, the constitution did not allow the state to refuse to extend that system to cases of religious hardship without a compelling reason.\n\nBut the difference between the other unemployment cases the Court had decided and this case was that Oregon's ban on peyote applied to everyone equally—in other words, it made no room for individualized consideration of the reasons a person might want to use peyote.\nRather than interpret the First Amendment to require the exemption that Smith and Black sought, the Court encouraged them to seek redress from the legislature. It observed that Arizona, Colorado, and New Mexico already specifically exempted religious uses from their otherwise generally applicable peyote bans. \"Just as a society that believes in the negative protection accorded to the press by the First Amendment is likely to enact laws that affirmatively foster the dissemination of the printed word, so also a society that believes in the negative protection afforded to religious belief can be expected to be solicitous of that value in its legislation as well.\" Requiring claims for religious exemptions to be vetted through the legislative process might put less popular religions at a disadvantage, but the Court held that this situation was preferable to the relative anarchy that would result from \"a system in which each conscience is a law unto itself.\"\n\nJustice Sandra Day O'Connor disagreed with the analytical framework the majority had constructed, preferring to apply the traditional compelling interest test to Oregon's ban on peyote. She agreed with the Court's initial premise that the Free Exercise Clause applied to religiously motivated conduct as well as religious beliefs. She pointed out, however, that even a so-called neutral law of general applicability imposes a burden on a person's exercise of religion if that law prevents a person from engaging in religiously motivated conduct or requires a person to engage in conduct forbidden by his or her religion. The First Amendment has to reach both laws that expressly target religion as well as generally applicable laws; otherwise, the law would relegate the constitutional protection of the free exercise of religion to \"the barest level of minimum scrutiny that the Equal Protection Clause already provides.\"\n\nHowever, First Amendment rights are not absolute. The law tolerates burdens on the free exercise of religion that serve a compelling governmental interest and are narrowly tailored to meet that interest. \"The compelling interest test effectuates the First Amendment's command that religious liberty is an independent liberty, that it occupies a preferred position, and that the Court will not permit encroachment upon this liberty, whether direct or indirect, unless required by clear and compelling governmental interests of the highest order.\"\n\nThus, the critical question in this case is whether exempting respondents from the State's general criminal prohibition \"will unduly interfere with fulfillment of the governmental interest,\" Justice O'Connor stated. \"Although the question is close, I would conclude that uniform application of Oregon's criminal prohibition is 'essential to accomplish,' its overriding interest in preventing the physical harm caused by the use of a Schedule I controlled substance.\"\n\nFirst, Justice O'Connor considered the interest of Smith and Black. There was no doubt that the exemption from Oregon's ban on peyote was not a pretext for Smith and Black. It was directly linked to the exercise of their religious beliefs, the sincerity of which the Court does not and should not question. Peyote is a sacrament in the Native American Church; thus, members must \"choose between carrying out the ritual embodying their religious beliefs and avoidance of criminal prosecution. That choice is ... more than sufficient to trigger First Amendment scrutiny.\"\n\nDespite this, \"Oregon's criminal prohibition represents that state's judgment that the possession and use of controlled substances, even by only one person, is inherently harmful and dangerous,\" Justice O'Connor wrote. \"Because the health effects caused by the use of controlled substances exist regardless of the motivation of the user, the use of such substances, even for religious purposes, violates the very purpose of the laws that prohibit them.\" Furthermore, society's interest in preventing trafficking in controlled substances was similarly central to effectuating Oregon's ban on peyote. Justice O'Connor likewise suggested that Smith and Black seek redress in the state legislature and not the courts, for the fact that other states allow religious use of peyote does not compel Oregon to follow suit. Indeed, not even Smith and Black disputed that Oregon's interest in outlawing peyote was compelling.\n\nJustice Harry Blackmun agreed with Justice O'Connor that the compelling interest test should apply to Oregon's ban on peyote, but disagreed with her that the ban was supported by a compelling interest that was narrowly tailored. Blackmun began by \"articulat[ing] in precise terms the state interest involved\" in the ban. Blackmun focused narrowly on the state's interest in not exempting religious use from its otherwise generally applicable ban on peyote rather than the state's broader interest in \"fighting the critical 'war on drugs.'\" Blackmun framed the issue as he did because \"failure to reduce the competing interests to the same plane of generality tends to distort the weighing process in the state's favor.\" Blackmun questioned whether Oregon actually enforced its criminal prohibition on peyote against religious users, noting that it had not actually prosecuted Smith or Black. Because Oregon had not prosecuted any religious users of peyote, its \"asserted interest thus amounts only to the symbolic preservation of an unfettered prohibition. But a government interest in symbolism, even symbolism for so worthy a cause as the abolition of unlawful drugs, cannot suffice to abrogate the constitutional rights of individuals.\"\n\nOregon also claimed an interest in protecting the health and safety of its citizens from the dangers of illegal drug use, but there was no evidence that religious use of peyote actually harmed anyone. The fact that peyote was a Schedule I drug did not persuade Blackmun. The federal government may have placed peyote on Schedule I, but the federal government also tolerated the religious use of peyote. In addition, other Schedule I drugs (such as cannabis) have lawful uses. Religious use was not recreational use; the Native American Church ritual in which peyote is consumed is heavily supervised, thus mitigating Oregon's health and safety concerns. The religious use occurs in a context that harmonizes with the state's general ban. The Native American Church discourages nonreligious use of peyote, and promotes family harmony, self-reliance, and abstinence from alcohol. Research suggests that religious use of peyote can help curb \"the tragic effects of alcoholism on the Native American population.\" And as for the state's interest in abolishing drug trafficking, Blackmun pointed out that there is \"practically no illegal traffic in peyote.\"\n\nFinally, Blackmun expressed concern for \"the severe impact of a state's restrictions on the adherents of a minority religion.\" Eating peyote is \"an act of worship and communion,\" a \"means for communicating with the Great Spirit.\" If Oregon is a hostile environment in which to practice the Native American religion, its adherents might be forced to \"migrate to some other and more tolerant region.\" Blackmun found it inconsistent with First Amendment values to denigrate an \"unorthodox\" religious practice in this way.\n\nCongress passed the Religious Freedom Restoration Act (RFRA) in 1993, which required the application of strict scrutiny. In response to the Supreme Court's 1997 ruling in \"City of Boerne v. Flores\", which declared the RFRA unconstitutional as applied to the states, Congress passed the Religious Land Use and Institutionalized Persons Act (RLUIPA) in 2000, which grants special privileges to religious landowners and prisoners.\n\n"}
{"id": "2023843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2023843", "title": "Jeff Loomis", "text": "Jeff Loomis\n\nJeff Loomis (born September 14, 1971) is an American musician, best known for his role as lead guitarist in the progressive metal band Nevermore. In November 2014, it was announced he was to be the new guitarist for Swedish melodic death metal band Arch Enemy.\n\nLoomis got his first instrument at nine or ten years old, but didn't start practicing seriously until around the age of 15. As a teenager in Wisconsin he played in a handful of cover bands and three death metal bands before joining more established bands. Guitarists whose style influenced Loomis are Yngwie Malmsteen, Ritchie Blackmore, Marty Friedman, Jason Becker, Tony Iommi and Brian May At the age of 16, Loomis won Wisconsin's \"Guitar Wars\" contest.\n\nHe auditioned for Megadeth (during the \"So Far, So Good...So What!\" era) at the age of 16, after their lead guitarist Jeff Young was fired from the band. After they played a few songs together, Dave Mustaine, the band's frontman and other lead guitarist, thanked Loomis and told him that one day he would become a great guitar player, but because of his age he was not right for the position. Loomis saw Cacophony on tour, and told Marty Friedman, who became very interested, about the audition. Marty tried out for the position and joined the band in 1989. In 2005, Loomis would then share the stage with Megadeth, as the lead guitarist for Nevermore as part of Mustaine's Gigantour festival. Loomis began to work on his solo album \"Zero Order Phase\". At this time Megadeth were having tryouts for a new guitarist once again and invited Loomis to join them. He turned the band down in order to keep working on his solo album. Coincidentally, Loomis's co-guitarist in Nevermore, Chris Broderick, auditioned for Megadeth and was given the part.\n\nNot too long after being auditioned for the lead part in Megadeth (which was also auditioned for by Steve Smyth and Chris Broderick, both playing for his later band Nevermore at different points), Loomis was unable to join the band Sanctuary after guitarist Sean Blosl had left. He was able to take his place at this time; however, because of a dispute caused by guitarist Lenny Rutledge wanting to make grunge oriented music, Sanctuary broke up 4 months afterwards.\n\nAfter the break-up, Loomis and former Sanctuary members Warrel Dane (vocalist) and Jim Sheppard (bassist) made plans to form Nevermore, and in late 1994, Loomis became the lead guitarist of Nevermore after the brief period being in Sanctuary. During his time in the band he was the main songwriter of Nevermore. His contributions can be found in albums such as \"The Politics of Ecstasy\", \"Dreaming Neon Black\", \"This Godless Endeavor\" (including Steve Smyth, who previously featured in the band Testament) and Nevermore's 2010 album, \"The Obsidian Conspiracy\". Loomis played an important role in developing the sound that Nevermore has today, using 7 string guitars and techniques such as sweep picking. One of his more important musical showcases is the critically acclaimed album \"Dead Heart in a Dead World\", for which he wrote most of the songs before Nevermore. On April 21, 2011, he and Van Williams left Nevermore, citing personal and musical differences with Warrel Dane.\n\nIn 2005, Loomis reported that he would take some time as a break and then begin recording a solo album. He said, \"It's something I've been wanting to do for some time... It will be like a Jason Becker/Marty Friedman kind of thing.\" On April 1, 2008, Loomis said that all 10 songs which had been written had had the drum parts recorded (done by Mark Arrington pretty much overnight) and they would soon begin tracking the rhythm guitar. On July 3, 2008, it was announced that the album would be called \"Zero Order Phase\". It was released September 30 via Century Media Records. It features guest solos from Ron Jarzombek, Pat O'Brien, and bassist Michael Manring. During this time Dave Mustaine of Megadeth invited Loomis to join as the lead guitarist, but he declined the offer to work on his solo record.\n\nOn April 10, 2012, the second solo album \"Plains of Oblivion\" was released through Century Media Records. Guest solos on the album were done by Marty Friedman, Tony MacAlpine and Chris Poland.\n\nIn summer 2012, Loomis embarked on a North American tour with The Contortionist, Chimp Spanner, and 7 Horns 7 Eyes.\n\nOn November 17, 2014, Loomis was announced as the new guitarist of melodic death metal band Arch Enemy, replacing Nick Cordle. His first show with them was on November 26 in Lyon, France, when War Eternal European tour kicked off.\n\nIn 2017, it was announced that Loomis was collaborating with Arch Enemy's lead vocalist Alissa White-Gluz on her solo project.\n\nLoomis, in January 2019, has said he currently has been working on material for a third solo album that has yet to be announced.\n\nLoomis had a monthly column in \"Guitar World\" magazine entitled \"Merchant of Menace\" where he explained how to play the riffs and solos of Nevermore. In more recent columns, his former co-guitarist in Nevermore, Steve Smyth has co-written the column, which is dubbed \"The Merchants of Menace.\" He has also been featured in \"Young Guitar Magazine\", showing guitarists how to play, and explain his style and signature guitar in Nevermore.\n\nIn 2006, he provided the voice of Thunderbolt Murderface in \"Williams Street Presents Metalocalypse\" on Adult Swim.\n\nAs of 2008, he is engaged.\n\nIn 2009 \"Guitar World\" released his first instructional video.\n\nSlated for a Winter 2010 release; Loomis has recorded a two part instructional DVD series with RockHouseMethod. Recording took place late fall of 2009.\n\nIn 2010, he played a guest guitar solo on Keith Merrow's album \"Awaken The Stone King\", released on January 1, 2011. He also played another guest solo in the song \"Racecar\" on Periphery's self-titled debut album.\n\nIt was announced in July 2013, that Loomis would be teaming up with Keith Merrow, Alex Webster of Cannibal Corpse, and Alex Rüdinger of The Faceless to record an instrumental album titled \"Conquering Dystopia\", the recording of which will be funded by donations.\n\nIn 2013, Loomis started touring with Soilwork.\n\nLoomis plays various Schecter seven (and occasionally six) string guitars, including the Jeff Loomis C7 FR Signature Model with EMG 707 pickups and a Floyd Rose tremolo. He also plays a Schecter C-7 Hellraiser with EMG 707 active humbucker pickups, and the C-7 Blackjack with the Seymour Duncan Blackout pickups. Prior to Schecter he played a wide variety of guitars including Ibanez (\"Politics of Ecstasy\" period), Gibson, Jackson (\"Dreaming Neon Black\" period), ESP (\"Dead Heart...\" period), and Warmoth. In the video for \"Believe in Nothing\" he can be seen using an ESP LTD H-307. He also owns a custom ESP Horizon 7. He endorsed Peavey amplifiers and used their XXX head. After that he endorsed Krank amplifiers and could be seen live using the Krankenstein heads and cabs. As of 2008 Loomis endorsed Engl Amplification and used most of their heads at one time or another, most notably the SE 670, then the Fireball then their Savage heads and then the Engl Special Edition E570 Rack-mounted Preamp with Engl 100W Stereo Poweramp.and Engl cabs loaded with Vintage 30s. Early in 2007, Schecter guitars brought out the Jeff Loomis Signature Schecter 7 string, based on the C-7 Hellraiser model. It features the EMG 707 active pickups, ash body in 'vampyre red satin' and three piece maple neck with maple fretboard and Sperzel locking tuners. At NAMM 08 a new signature model was released. It is the same as his other one but it has a fixed bridge instead of a Floyd Rose. Loomis can also been seen on YouTube playing an electro acoustic LAG Tramontane T100 ASCEBLK.\n\nIn January 2014, Schecter announced that the Loomis series had undergone a redesign. They now feature EMG 57-7H and 66-7H active-housed pickups, all-black hardware, a thinner body with a deeper archop, a thinner, un-tinted neck, repositioned volume and toggle controls, stainless steel frets, and the options of either a Hipshot hard-tail bridge (JL-7), instead of the previous TonePros Tune-O-Matic bridge, or a Floyd Rose floating bridge (JL-7FR). The neck was also repositioned for better upper-fret access. It is available in either vampyre red satin or gloss black. and for case on JLFR7 use Schecters SGR1C hard shell case. In 2016, the guitars began featuring Loomis's signature Seymour Duncan active pickups.\n\nAs of March 2018 Loomis has left Schecter stating more freedom to play other guitars in his collection, notably Les Pauls and Strats.\nIn December 2018, he became a Jackson endorsed artist and is under development of a signature model to be released in January 2019.\n\nLoomis uses Ernie Ball strings. His current gauge 9-46+62 in B♭ tuning, he used to use a heavier 10–52 (skinny top, heavy bottom) + 70 gauge along with Dunlop Tortex 1.5 mm Sharp picks. For amplification he is currently using the Line6 Helix rack with Seymour Duncan PowerStage 700.\n\nEffects pedals\n\nRecording gear\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nExtreme Lead Guitar: Dissonant Scales & Arpeggios (The Rock House Method)\n\n"}
{"id": "2023845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2023845", "title": "League Managers Association", "text": "League Managers Association\n\nThe League Managers Association (LMA) is the trade union for Premier League, EFL and national team managers in English association football. The LMA awards the LMA Manager of the Year award annually.\n\nThe union was founded in 1919 as the Football League Secretaries and Managers Association. Its membership grew gradually, reaching 223 in 1963, and 321 in 1974. In its early years, all of its members were men, with the first women joining in 1971.\n\nThe League Managers Association is the collective, representative voice of all managers from the Premier League, the Sky Bet Championship and Sky Bet Leagues 1 and 2. The LMA lobbies with the expertise of their members on various matters to football's governing organisations. Representatives of the LMA now sit on various Football Association panels charged with helping to run the game in England. It was set up in 1992 during the period when association football in England was undergoing major changes, including the split of the Premiership from the rest of the football league, and the introduction of satellite television coverage of football by Sky Television.\n\nThe president of the LMA is customarily the person serving as the manager of the England national football team, meaning that the current president is Gareth Southgate. Its chief executive is Richard Bevan, and the chairman is Howard Wilkinson.\n\nIn April 2017, the LMA launched the LMA Institute of Leadership and High Performance. It was established to provide ongoing learning and continuous personal development to those working in professional football. \n\nThe LMA Institute of Leadership and High Performance encompasses the LMA Diploma in Football Management, which is accredited by the University of Liverpool and is joint funded by the League Managers Association, the Premier League, The Football Association and the Professional Footballers’ Association. The programme has been built after an extensive period of research and analysis across the professional game into the complexities and challenges faced by those who choose to build a career in football management and coaching. It is designed to be delivered on a modular basis, combining two residential summer schools and seven one-day workshops during the course of the year.\n\nIn August 2014 Malky Mackay and Iain Moody were accused of sending each other racist, sexist and homophobic text messages; the LMA defended Mackay by dismissing his action as \"banter\" in a press statement which was widely condemned. The LMA later apologised for this. There were calls for LMA chief executive Richard Bevan to resign as a result.\n\nThe LMA added their name to a series of football management simulation games, LMA Manager series, for the PlayStation 2, and for 2007 the PC.\n"}
{"id": "2023864", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2023864", "title": "New Melones Dam", "text": "New Melones Dam\n\nNew Melones Dam is an earth and rock filled embankment dam on the Stanislaus River, about west of Jamestown, California, United States, on the border of Calaveras County and Tuolumne County. The water impounded by the -tall dam forms New Melones Lake, California's fourth largest reservoir, in the foothills of the Sierra Nevada east of the San Joaquin Valley. The dam serves mainly for irrigation water supply, and also provides hydropower generation, flood control, and recreation benefits.\n\nThe dam was authorized in 1944 as a unit of the federal Central Valley Project, a system designed to provide irrigation water to the fertile agricultural region of the Central Valley. It would be built by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (Corps), and transferred to the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation (Reclamation) upon completion. In 1966, work began to clear the foundations for a high dam that would replace an earlier, much smaller structure built by two irrigation districts. Construction of the main embankment began in 1976, and was topped out in late 1978. The filling of New Melones Lake commenced in 1978, and the dam's hydroelectric station produced its first power in mid-1979.\n\nNew Melones was the focus of a long environmental battle during the 1970s and early 1980s; critics protested the flooding of a long scenic stretch of the Stanislaus River, which flowed over whitewater rapids through the deepest limestone canyon in the western United States. The protestors employed a variety of methods, some extreme, to prevent the filling of New Melones Lake until 1983, when record-setting floods filled the reservoir and nearly breached the dam's emergency spillway. The fight over New Melones galvanized the river conservation movement in California and influenced major water policy changes on the state and federal levels; since its completion, no other dams of its size or importance have been built in the United States.\n\nThe New Melones project has continued to generate controversy, due to the water yield from the project being lower than expected, and the use of New Melones water to meet federal environmental standards at the expense of farming. The reservoir is considered \"over-allocated\"; in an average year, it is unable to meet all the demands placed on it. The debate over water rights continues today, with environmentalists seeking to further increase fishery flows, and the Stanislaus irrigation districts asserting their senior rights to the river.\n\nNew Melones Dam and its reservoir comprise the independent New Melones Unit of the Central Valley Project. The dam's primary purpose is to control the runoff from , or about 92 percent, of the watershed of the Stanislaus River, a major tributary of the San Joaquin River. At high from the foundations and long, and containing of material, New Melones is the second tallest earthfill dam in the United States, after Oroville Dam, and the sixth tallest dam overall. With a crest elevation of , the dam rises for above the streambed. Flood waters are released through an unlined spillway about a mile (1.6 km) northwest of the dam, with a capacity of . The dam also has an outlet works which can release up to .\nThe impounded water behind the dam forms New Melones Lake, which at full pool of above sea level encompasses of surface water and a volume of . About , 19 percent of the reservoir's capacity, is reserved for flood control. During flooding events, the dam is operated to keep flows on the Stanislaus River below , although this figure may be lowered depending on flow conditions in the San Joaquin River. Between 1978 and 2010 the dam prevented a total of $505 million in flooding damages (adjusted for inflation), including $231 million during the New Year's flood of 1997 alone. However, the \"Manteca Bulletin\" noted that the dam was operated carelessly during the 1997 flood – almost of farmland was flooded near the confluence of the Stanislaus and San Joaquin Rivers – and a further $80 million of damage could have been prevented had the reservoir been kept at a safe level.\n\nThe dam's hydroelectric power plant is located at its base on the north side of the river, and has a rated hydraulic head of . The plant houses two 150.0 MW Francis turbines for a total capacity of 300 MW. Daily releases are made on a peaking basis; seasonal totals are dictated by irrigation (in summer) and flood control (in winter) requirements below the dam. The release from New Melones is re-regulated by the smaller downstream reservoir of Tulloch Dam, ensuring a stable flow in the Stanislaus River. For the period 2001 to 2015, the plant produced an average of 418 million kilowatt hours (KWh) annually. This ranged from a high of 910 million KWh in fiscal year 2006, to a low of 130 million KWh in 2015. The plant replaced the old 22 MW power station at the original Melones Dam; on average it generates about four times as much electricity as the original did.\n\nBy controlling the flows of the Stanislaus River, the dam and reservoir make available of additional water each year. About of land along the Stanislaus River are irrigated using water from New Melones. According to the Bureau of Reclamation, the increase in water supply from New Melones Dam has \"translated into prosperity for the region, allowing the growth of cities including Tracy and Manteca, and irrigating high-value crops including almonds, walnuts and grapes.\" In addition, New Melones Lake is one of the major tourist draws of the region, providing activities such as boating, fishing and shoreline camping. An estimated 800,000 people visit the lake each year; however, droughts can cause the closure of lake facilities due to low water levels.\n\nThe modern development of the Stanislaus River began with the Oakdale and South San Joaquin Irrigation Districts, which were created in 1909 under the Wright Act to serve farmers in the area. Early irrigation along the Stanislaus River was dependent on the natural flow of the river, which was never enough to water crops during the late summer and fall. In 1926 the two irrigation districts jointly completed the original Melones Dam, a high concrete arch dam with a storage capacity of . This reservoir was still not big enough for all the demands placed on it, especially during the long droughts of the 1930s.\n\nThe storage capacity of these early reservoirs was limited and the irrigation districts sought to increase the size of the Melones Reservoir. The federal Flood Control Act of 1944 authorized the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to build a arch dam with a capacity of . As a primary flood control structure, it would protect of farmland as well as the towns of Oakdale, Riverbank and Ripon from flooding. It would generate electricity using the original 22 megawatt Melones hydroelectric plant. However, the cost-benefit analysis conducted for the project, then known as \"New Melones I\", did not justify the construction of the dam for flood control alone. If other benefits such as irrigation, fishery conservation and recreation were included, the cost-benefit ratio became positive. The Corps downplayed these additional benefits, intending to keep it primarily as a flood-control structure, because an irrigation project would then fall under the authority of the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation.\n\nDuring the 1950s the irrigation districts built two more dams, Donnells and Beardsley, along the upper Stanislaus River, forming (along with Tulloch Dam below Melones Dam) the Tri-Dam Project. The Corps objected to the Tri-Dam Project because the additional storage provided by these smaller dams further decreased the potential flood control benefit of New Melones. With the Corps unable to provide a sound economic justification, New Melones I was ultimately shelved in 1954. Meanwhile, the Oakdale and South San Joaquin irrigation districts had conducted their own study in the late 1940s and proposed a bigger dam, tall with a capacity of 1.1 million acre feet (1.4 km), or approximately one year's worth of Stanislaus River runoff.\nThe Bureau of Reclamation first surveyed the Melones dam site in the 1950s, and initially supported the proposed 1.1 million acre foot reservoir but soon increased the size of the project (to be known as \"New Melones II\") twofold, as part of the Central Valley Project. The Bureau cited numerous benefits to a larger reservoir, which it estimated would capture of extra water per year to increase irrigation, supply other units of the Central Valley Project, and maintain a minimum flow in the Stanislaus River to protect fish (before New Melones was built, diversions often dried the river completely in summer). This water would be provided above and beyond fulfilling previously existing water rights to the irrigation districts.\n\nAlthough the 1944 version of the project had been abandoned, the Bureau and the Corps continued to argue over who would construct the dam. The Flood Control Act of 1962 authorized the final design of the dam – changing it from an arch to an embankment dam, increasing the size of the projected reservoir to and requiring the construction of a new power plant. It also settled the interagency dispute by authorizing the Corps to construct the dam and direct flood control operations, and the Bureau to operate the dam for its other intended purposes such as irrigation and hydroelectricity.\n\nIn the early 1960s, there was some local opposition to the project on the grounds that it was too big – with a reservoir more than twice as large as the annual flow of the Stanislaus River, it might never fill and would be a waste of federal Central Valley Project funds. There was also concern that water from New Melones II might be exported outside the Stanislaus River basin and sold elsewhere; therefore, a rider attached to the 1962 act \"reserved water for use within the basin with export of excess water only\". Two years later, the Christmas flood of 1964 caused considerable damage along the Stanislaus River that a large dam could have prevented; Congressman John J. McFall \"seized the political leverage that only [the floods] could provide, and urged the drenched farmers to support New Melones Dam.\" With opposition having largely turned to support, Congress approved funding in 1965, with construction starting the following year.\n\nActual construction began in July 1966 with clearing of the dam and reservoir site, construction of access roads, foundation preparations and excavations for the future outlet works. A diversion tunnel to allow the river to bypass the dam site was excavated between 1966 and December 1973. The Corps opened bids for construction of the main dam on October 10, 1972. Melones Contractors (a consortium formed by Guy F. Atckinson Company, Gordon H. Ball, and Arundel Corp.) won the primary construction contract for $109.7 million, while Allis-Chalmers and General Electric took an $11.5 million contract to provide turbines and hydroelectric generating equipment. During reservoir clearing operations, the USACE spent about $28 million relocating roads and bridges in the future reservoir space. Foundation work for the dam itself began on March 6, 1974 with the first embankment material placed in January 1976. Much of the embankment fill came from an excavation shortly northwest of the dam, which would later serve as the dam's spillway. During the height of construction in the summer, the total workforce reached about 800, while averaging between 500–600 in the winter months.\n\nAlthough the 1964 floods had initially generated support for New Melones, a spirited opposition to the dam arose from both the river recreation industry and environmentalists who saw the Stanislaus River canyon as having greater value than a reservoir. River runners protested the threat to the Stanislaus River, which was becoming one of the most popular whitewater runs in the United States, with the first commercial rafting company established in 1962 (see images of the river, rafting, and the canyon at the Stanislaus River Archive). The river flowed through the deepest limestone canyon in the US, with cliffs rising above the water in places. Other natural features of the area included extensive limestone caves, and endemic species such as \"Banksula melones\", the Melones cave harvestman. In addition, more than one hundred archaeological and historical sites, left over from Native American inhabitation and the Gold Rush period, were all situated in the reservoir flood zone.\n\nThe environmental group Friends of the River (FOR) was formed in the early 1970s to push a statewide ballot measure, Proposition 17, which would have designated of the Stanislaus River between Stanislaus Powerhouse and Parrott's Ferry as a National Wild and Scenic River and stopped the construction of New Melones Dam. Development-related interests such as PG&E, the California Chamber of Commerce and the contractors working on the dam spent millions of dollars lobbying against Prop 17 (see images on the Stanislaus River Archive). One of their slogans, \"Stop the 'Wild River' Hoax!\" argued that this part of the Stanislaus River was not untouched wilderness (as dams already existed both upstream and downstream of the 9-mile segment) and therefore was ineligible for Wild and Scenic designation. This statement was misleading, since the language of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act does not disqualify rivers with dams – only the portions already inundated by reservoirs. Dam supporters also argued that the Stanislaus River in its natural state was only accessible to a small group of people; that the rafting companies held a \"monopoly\" on river recreation and a reservoir would open up the area for far more tourists than would have visited otherwise, bringing more economic benefits to the area.\n\nAfter Prop 17 lost by a voter margin of 53–47, the project's opponents – which had grown to include other environmental groups, such as the Friends of the River and the Sierra Club – shifted their focus on limiting the amount of water the reservoir could hold, rather than trying to stop the dam altogether. In the meantime, construction on the dam continued to progress. On April 1, 1978 the gates of the diversion tunnel were closed, and New Melones Lake began to fill, soon inundating the old Melones Dam. As the reservoir filled, work moved ahead on the power plant and generating units, which were all completed by the end of 1978. The main embankment of the dam was topped out on October 28, 1978.\n\nOn May 22, 1979, Mark Dubois, one of the founders of FOR, hiked into the Stanislaus River Canyon and chained himself to a boulder, forcing the Corps to stop filling the lake or risk drowning him. Dubois hid in the canyon for five days while local authorities tried unsuccessfully to find him; he had written letters to the Corps and Governor Jerry Brown telling them of his plans in advance (see documents and images of this event on the Stanislaus River Archive). Ultimately, dam operators opened the gates, halting the rising reservoir at an elevation of , or about below its maximum design level. The Corps was delayed in handing the project over to the Bureau of Reclamation, as testing could not be completed on the hydroelectric turbines until the water level increased further. On May 29, Governor Brown vetoed Assembly Bill 2164, which would have allowed filling New Melones Lake to its full capacity.\nIn the meantime, environmental groups lobbied for a compromise to stay the lake level at the old Parrott's Ferry Bridge, above sea level, corresponding to a storage capacity of : \"We can have a working dam and a wild river.\" The irrigation districts, Reclamation officials, and local representatives including John Garamendi and Norman S. Waters, argued that to complete the dam only to not fill it was absurd. The state of California initially sided with the opposition. On November 20, 1980 the State Water Resources Control Board set the temporary upper limit for lake level at the old Parrott's Ferry Bridge. With that limit in place, operations of the dam and reservoir were handed to Reclamation.\n\nOver the next two years the state continued to delay allowing the reservoir to fill because the Bureau of Reclamation had not convincingly demonstrated that \"the irrigation need will outweigh any damage that results to fish, wildlife and recreation in the watershed above New Melones Dam.\" Further studies by the California Department of Fish and Wildlife and the Bureau of Reclamation itself showed that completely filling New Melones Lake would, in fact, offset some of the benefits of the project. For example, if additional water were provided for farms, even more water would have to be released into the Stanislaus River to wash out polluted return flows from new irrigation. A larger reservoir would also halt the Stanislaus' spring flooding to such an extent that it would harm the salmon populations that the dam was intended to benefit. Also, a higher reservoir would allow for less flood control space in emergencies. The state determined that the optimal reservoir volume was , which would provide enough water to fulfill existing rights and fishery flows as well as provide a hedge against droughts and floods; although it would inundate about of the river above Parrott's Ferry, FOR agreed to this compromise.\n\nUltimately, it was nature, not political maneuvering, that led to the filling of New Melones Lake. The winter and spring rainy season of 1982 was one of the wettest recorded in the 20th century. The Stanislaus River swelled to such high levels that it exceeded what could be safely released through the dam's outlets, and the reservoir rapidly surpassed the temporary limit. The winter of 1983 was even wetter and pushed water so high that it reached the lip of the emergency spillway (but did not flow over it), a level that has not been surpassed since. With the lake full, the state of California lifted the temporary limit in March, 1983. A deciding factor in the rescinding of the water-level limit was the prevention of $50 million in damages by New Melones Dam in 1982 and 1983, which demonstrated the dam's value for flood control.\n\nNew Melones Dam has a very large storage capacity relative to the watershed that feeds it, as compared to other major reservoirs in California. The potential water yield, and thus the supply contracts, of the Melones Project were calculated based on stream flow data between 1922 and 1978; however, this period may have been somewhat wetter than the long-term average. The Bureau of Reclamation estimated the additional water yield per year as but the actual yield has been closer to . As a result, the reservoir is often at a low water level because in most years demand is greater than supply. In the 38 years between 1978 and 2016, New Melones has only reached capacity five times, and only once (in 1983) has it reached the level of the spillway. Between 1987 and 1992 Reclamation was forced to purchase water from other agencies to fulfill New Melones' water obligations. Even so, the reservoir fell to a record low level of , 3.5% of capacity, on October 1, 1992. Conversely, the great storage capacity also means that New Melones can capture more flood runoff while other major California reservoirs must release it to maintain flood control space.\n\nThe original contracted water supply from New Melones Dam was , of which was allocated to the Oakdale and South San Joaquin Irrigation Districts (who owned the original Melones Dam and have the oldest water rights); for Stanislaus River water quality and fishery conservation; and for the Stockton East Water District. Originally, Reclamation had planned to extend the water supply to other users, but even from the start, the Melones Project was barely able to meet these existing targets. New Melones releases are important for regional groundwater recharge, a vital water source for farmers when surface water supplies are cut off due to drought, and to protect water quality in the Stanislaus and San Joaquin Rivers by diluting pollutants during the late summer and fall dry season.\n\nAfter the Central Valley Project Improvement Act in 1991 and the Bay-Delta Water Quality Control Plan in 1995, much more water was required to meet target environmental flows in the Stanislaus and San Joaquin Rivers and the Delta, which conflicts with the original language of the 1962 act authorizing the dam, which stated that only \"excess water\" could be appropriated for these uses. One of the new requirements was for spring and autumn \"pulse flows\" intended to help migration of anadromous fish (Chinook salmon and steelhead trout in particular). This policy has been criticized by local irrigation districts as a waste of water during dry years, as fish populations have continued to struggle despite the additional flows. Reclamation officials argue that the flows are needed to meet state and federal requirements, as well as the earlier Endangered Species Act of 1972. As a result, the Melones Project is now only able to meet all its contracts in \"above average\" water years. Local water users have coined the somewhat derisive nickname of \"green dam\" because the policy has shifted to favor fish rather than farmers.\nA further constraint is that water released in autumn must be cold enough for anadromous fish to survive, and thus must be made from the lower level outlets at New Melones Dam. However, the old Melones Dam was not demolished during the construction of the new dam (the original dam remains submerged far below the reservoir surface, only rarely re-emerging when the water level is low). The old dam partially blocks the movement of cold water from the deepest parts of the reservoir, causing warmer surface water to be drawn out instead. As a result, in certain years the amount of irrigation water has been reduced in order to maintain enough depth in New Melones Lake in the fall to preserve the cold water pool.\n\nA 2016 study by independent environmental consulting group FishBio showed that the artificial spring pulse flows from New Melones Dam do fairly little to support salmon and steelhead out-migration in the Stanislaus River. Rather, the fish take their cues from increased water flow due to rainfall, as they naturally would have before the many dams on the Stanislaus River were built. In the spring of 2016 about 12,500 juvenile salmon migrated downriver to the sea during April and May, but less than 1 percent migrated during the pulse flow. In years of drought when the lake level is low, releasing water during the spring creates consequences later in the year – because there is not enough cold water left for the autumn spawning run.\n\nThe state of California has further proposed that between 20 and 60 percent of the unimpaired, or natural flow of the Stanislaus River be allowed to run downstream during the spring to support ailing fish populations. In addition, the minimum level of New Melones Lake would be set at (29 percent capacity) at all times in order to preserve the cold water pool. This would essentially limit the usable storage in the reservoir to the between the cold water pool and the flood-control pool, further handicapping the ability of the reservoir to manage water. This plan has been met with outcry from local cities and irrigation districts, which contend that it would heavily damage the farming economy and cause thousands of seasonal jobs to disappear. Furthermore, it does not address other major problems including introduced striped bass in the San Joaquin River, which eat many if not most of the juvenile salmon and steelhead before they even reach the sea.\n\nIn 2015, Congressman Tom McClintock introduced HR 1668, the \"Save Our Water Act\", which \"amends the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (ESA) to suspend during droughts the application of the ESA to water releases from water storage facilities by federal and state agencies in a navigable river basin.\" McClintock specifically cited the release of from New Melones Lake over several weeks in spring 2015, when New Melones Lake was approaching its lowest level on record since the 1992 drought. That year, very few fish had returned to the Stanislaus to spawn; in an editorial for \"MyMotherLode\", Mark Truppner wrote: \"Biologists estimate that it will affect the offspring of about 29 steelhead trout in the Stanislaus River – a few hundred smolts [sic] almost all of which will be eaten by predators long before they reach the ocean. And that assumes they won't swim toward the ocean on their own – as they have been doing without our helpful assistance since time immemorial.\" However the bill did not pass.\n\nOne potential solution has been outlined in a 2016 agreement between the Bureau of Reclamation, the local water districts and a number of other state and federal agencies. The local water districts would provide of water for fishery flows during the spring; this water would be sold to the San Luis & Delta-Mendota Water Authority. Instead of draining into the ocean, it would be captured by the large Central Valley Project and State Water Project pumping stations in the Delta for eventual re-use on Authority lands. Previously, Reclamation had been taking the Stanislaus irrigation districts' water without paying for it. Essentially, the agreement allows for the water to be re-used for agriculture while still maintaining fishery flows in the Stanislaus River.\n\nThe controversy over New Melones Dam was one of the most heated environmental disputes in the U.S. at the time. The dam was constructed at a time of growing public support for environmental preservation, as compared to development or utilitarian conservation of natural resources. Friends of the River describes the campaign against the dam as \"probably the biggest citizen effort to save a river and stop a dam in American history.\" The Bureau of Reclamation itself has called New Melones \"a case study of all that can go wrong with a project.\" Although opponents of the dam were ultimately unsuccessful, the campaign greatly strengthened the political power of the river conservation movement in California and the rest of the United States; in California, a number of later dam projects were defeated by citizen opposition, including a hydroelectric project on the nearby Tuolumne River which was canceled less than two years after New Melones Dam was completed.\nIn \"Dam Politics: Restoring America's Rivers\", William R. Lowry writes:\n\nThe New Melones debate influenced the eventual protection of a number of other northern California rivers (the Eel, Klamath and others) under the National Wild and Scenic Rivers System starting in 1980. It considerably changed the California state government's approach to water resources development, switching focus from massive dam projects to conservation and policy improvements. In 1982, the same year that New Melones Lake filled, the Reclamation Reform Act set more stringent standards for vetting federal Reclamation projects, essentially \"distancing federal policy from the 'dams-everywhere' approach of the past.\" However, the relative lack of new storage has severely strained California's water system, which now serves 15 million more people than it did when New Melones Dam was completed in 1979.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2023871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2023871", "title": "Jean Blaquière", "text": "Jean Blaquière\n\nJean Blaquière, a Pentecostal pastor, was a candidate for the Christian Heritage Party of Canada in the Canadian federal election of 1993, and won the party leadership in March 1994 at a Vancouver convention, in a race with two other contenders.\n\nBlaquière chose to step down at the next convention in November 1995 in London, Ontario, and was succeeded by Ron Gray.\n"}
{"id": "2023881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2023881", "title": "Peerless Quartet", "text": "Peerless Quartet\n\nThe Peerless Quartet was an American vocal group that recorded in the early years of the twentieth century. They formed to record for Columbia Records, where they were credited as the Columbia Quartet or Columbia Male Quartet. From about 1907, when they began to record for record labels other than Columbia, they were more widely known as the Peerless Quartet.\n\nThe Peerless Quartet was one of the most commercially successful groups of the acoustic era and made hundreds of recordings, including popular versions of songs such as \"Sweet Adeline\", \"By the Light of the Silvery Moon\", \"Let Me Call You Sweetheart\", and \"I Want A Girl (Just Like The Girl That Married Dear Old Dad)\". The group continued to record until 1928, with many changes of personnel. They were led until 1910 by Frank C. Stanley, and thereafter by tenor Henry Burr.\n\nThe first cylinder recordings by the Columbia Male Quartet (or Quartette) were made in the late 1890s. The earliest version of the group included first tenor Albert Campbell, second tenor James Kent \"Jim\" Reynard, baritone Joe Belmont and bass Joe Majors. The same line-up also recorded in 1901–02 as the Climax Quartette for Climax discs, a predecessor of Columbia's own discs, although later recordings under that name were by a different group. Over the next few years, Reynard was first replaced by George J. Gaskin, and then, around 1902, by Henry Burr. Majors was first replaced by Tom Daniels and then, in about 1903, by Frank C. Stanley. On some recordings, Belmont was replaced by Arthur Collins or Bob Roberts.\n\nBy 1904, the group's membership had stabilized as tenors Albert Campbell and Henry Burr, baritone Steve Porter, and bass Frank C. Stanley. Frank Stanley (born William Stanley Grinsted) became the group's lead singer and manager, and, as freelance musicians, the group began recording for other labels as well as Columbia. They recorded as the Peerless Quartet for Zonophone from 1907; for the Victor Talking Machine Company from 1908; and for Edison's National Phonograph Company from 1909. The group's most successful early recordings included \"You're The Flower of My Heart, Sweet Adeline\" for Columbia in 1904, and \"Honey Boy\" for Columbia and Zonophone in 1907. In 1909, Arthur Collins replaced Steve Porter, who continued to record as a solo performer and in duos. They continued to have success in 1910, notably with \"By the Light of the Silvery Moon\", which they recorded for Columbia, Zonophone, and Everlasting, and \"Silver Bell\", recorded for Victor and Everlasting.\n\nFrank C. Stanley died of pleurisy in 1910. He was replaced in the group by John H. Meyer, and Henry Burr took over as their lead singer and manager, a position he retained until the group dissolved in 1928. The Peerless Quartet's popularity peaked in the years between 1911 and 1918. Their most successful recordings over the period included \"I Want A Girl (Just Like The Girl That Married Dear Old Dad)\" and \"Let Me Call You Sweetheart\" (both for Columbia in 1911); \"The Ghost of the Violin\" (Columbia, 1913); \"Don't Blame It All On Broadway\" (Columbia and Victor, 1914); \"I Didn't Raise My Boy To Be A Soldier\" (Columbia, 1915); \"My Bird of Paradise\" (Columbia and Victor, 1915); \"The Lights of My Home Town\" (Victor, 1916); \"Over There\" (Columbia, 1917); and \"I Don't Know Where I'm Going But I'm On My Way\" (Columbia and Victor, 1918).\n\nIn his book \"Pop Memories 1890–1954\", music archivist and statistician Joel Whitburn assessed a variety of sources such as \"Talking Machine World\" 's lists of top-selling recordings, and \"Billboard\" 's sheet music and vaudeville charts, to estimate the most successful recordings of the period. He concluded that the Peerless Quartet had 102 \"top ten\" hits in all between 1904 and 1926, and in the decade 1910–1919 had more successful recordings than any other musician or group. Although Whitburn's methods of assessment have been criticized, this broadly confirms statements that the group were the most popular of their era.\nIn addition, Henry Burr, Albert Campbell and Arthur Collins also recorded very successfully as solo singers: Burr and Collins, in particular, were two of the most popular singers of the first two decades of the century. The group also accompanied other singers including Ada Jones, Byron G. Harlan, George O'Connor, and Irving Kaufman. Burr, Campbell and Meyer also recorded together as the Sterling Trio.\n\nIn 1918, Collins left the group and was replaced by Frank Croxton. The line-up of Burr, Campbell, Meyer and Croxton remained together until 1925 and continued to record for Columbia and Victor. They had diminishing success, but in 1922 made the first recording of \"Way Down Yonder in New Orleans\", later a rock and roll hit song.\n\nAfter that line-up disbanded in 1925, Burr formed a new version of the Peerless Quartet, with himself, Carl Mathieu, Stanley Baughman and James Stanley. The line-up made a film at that time with Pathé Films. The quartet finally disbanded in 1928, though Burr continued to record thereafter.\n\nThe Peerless Quartet are acknowledged as one of the major influences on the development of barbershop vocal harmony music. They were inducted into the Vocal Group Hall of Fame in 2003.\n\n"}
{"id": "2023884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2023884", "title": "A London Symphony", "text": "A London Symphony\n\nA London Symphony is the second symphony composed by Ralph Vaughan Williams. The work is sometimes referred to as Symphony No. 2, though it was not designated as such by the composer. First performed in 1914, the four-movement symphony was lost, reconstructed and later modified by Vaughan Williams.\n\nThe work is scored for:\n\nVaughan Williams said that while the title may suggest a programmatic piece (and the work includes sounds heard in London such as the Westminster Quarters), it was intended to be heard as absolute music. In a programme note in 1920, he suggested that \"Symphony by a Londoner\" might be a better title. However, he allowed the conductor Albert Coates to provide elaborate descriptions for the 1920 performance.\n\nThe symphony is in four movements.\nThe symphony opens quietly, and after a few nocturnal bars, the Westminster chimes are heard, played on the harp.<score vorbis=\"1\"> \\relative c' { \\clef treble \\key g \\major \\time 3/2 c2\\p\\flageolet e\\flageolet d\\flageolet | g,1.\\flageolet | c2\\flageolet d\\flageolet e\\flageolet | c1.\\flageolet } </score> After a silent pause, the allegro risoluto section, much of it triple forte, is vigorous and brisk, and the ensuing second subject, dominated by the wind and brass, is no less so (evoking \"Hampstead Heath on an August Bank Holiday\"). <score vorbis=\"1\"> \\relative c { \\clef treble \\key g \\minor \\tempo \"Allegro risoluto\" \\numericTimeSignature \\time 2/2 r2 <g d b>2~->\\fff | <g d b>8 <fis cis a>-> <f c aes>-> <e b g>-> <ees bes ges>2->~ | <ees bes ges>4 \\times 2/3 { <ees bes ges>8-- <e b g>-- <f c aes>-- } <e b g>4(\\< <ees bes ges>8)\\! } </score> <score vorbis=\"1\"> \\relative c { \\clef treble \\key g \\minor \\numericTimeSignature \\time 2/2 \\partial 2*1 d4->\\ff cis8.-> a16-> | b8->[ b->] b-> r r d-> cis->[ a->] | b1~ | b8 } </score> After a contrasting gentle interlude scored for string sextet and harp, the vigorous themes return and bring the movement to a lively close, with full orchestra playing \"fortissimo\".\n\nThe movement opens with muted strings playing \"ppp\". Vaughan Williams said that the slow movement is intended to evoke \"Bloomsbury Square on a November afternoon\". <score vorbis=\"1\"> \\relative c' { \\clef treble \\numericTimeSignature \\time 4/4 \\tempo \"Lento\" \\partial 4*1 ees4\\p( | aes4._\"misterioso\" bes8 ces4 bes8 aes | g4. f8 g4 c, | g4. c8 c4-- bes-- | g2.)\\>~ g8\\! } </score> Quiet themes led in turn by cor anglais, flute, trumpet and viola give way to a grave, impassioned forte section, after which the movement gradually subsides to its original quiet dynamic.\n\nIn the composer's words, \"If the listener will imagine himself standing on Westminster Embankment at night, surrounded by the distant sounds of The Strand, with its great hotels on one side and the \"New Cut\" on the other, with its crowded streets and flaring lights, it may serve as a mood in which to listen to this movement.\" In the definitive score, the movement revolves around two scherzo themes, the first marked fugato and the second straightforward and lively. <score vorbis=\"1\"> \\relative c' { \\clef treble \\time 6/8 \\key d \\minor \\tempo \"Allegro vivace\" a8(\\p d) c-. d4.~ | d8 c( d e f e | a, d c d e f) } </score> The piece closes with muted strings playing \"pppp\".\n\n<score vorbis=\"1\"> \\relative c' { \\clef treble \\numericTimeSignature \\time 4/4 \\key g \\minor \\tempo \"Maestoso alla marcia\" c\\p c8.(-. c16-.) c4 a8-.( c-.) | d4 d8.-.( c16-.) d2-- | c4 c8.(-. bes16-.) c8( d) bes-- c-- | d4( f8. e16 d2)^\"ten.\" } </score>\nThe finale opens on a grave march theme, punctuated with a lighter allegro section, with full orchestra initially \"forte\" and \"appassionato\". After the reappearance of the march, the main allegro theme of the first movement returns. Following this, the Westminster Chimes strike again, this time the harp plays the first three-quarters of the hour chimes, and there is a quiet Epilogue, inspired by the last chapter of H.G. Wells's novel \"Tono-Bungay\":\n\nThe last great movement in the London Symphony in which the true scheme of the old order is altogether dwarfed and swallowed up ... Light after light goes down. England and the Kingdom, Britain and the Empire, the old prides and the old devotions, glide abeam, astern, sink down upon the horizon, pass – pass. The river passes – London passes, England passes.\n\nThe symphony was composed from 1912 to 1913. It is dedicated to Vaughan Williams's friend and fellow composer George Butterworth (1885–1916) who was subsequently killed by a sniper on the Somme during World War I. It was Butterworth who had first encouraged Vaughan Williams to write a purely orchestral symphony. Vaughan Williams recorded that:\nWe were talking together one day when he said in his gruff, abrupt manner: 'You know, you ought to write a symphony'. I answered... that I'd never written a symphony and never intended to... I suppose Butterworth's words stung me and, anyhow, I looked out some sketches I had made for... a symphonic poem about London and decided to throw it into symphonic form... From that moment, the idea of a symphony dominated my mind. I showed the sketches to George bit by bit as they were finished, and it was then that I realised that he possessed in common with very few composers a wonderful power of criticism of other men's work and insight into their ideas and motives. I can never feel too grateful to him for all he did for me over this work and his help did not stop short at criticism.\n\nThe work was first performed on 27 March 1914 at Queen's Hall, conducted by Geoffrey Toye. The performance was a success, but shortly afterwards the composer sent the score to the conductor Fritz Busch in Germany, and it disappeared in the upheaval of the outbreak of World War I. The second performance was given in Harrogate on 12 August by the Harrogate Municipal Orchestra under Julian Clifford. There was a short score, which had been prepared by Bevis Ellis, Francis Toye and George Butterworth, so it is possible that version was used instead. The composer, aided by Geoffrey Toye, Butterworth and the critic E. J. Dent, reconstructed the score from the orchestral parts, and the reconstruction was performed on 11 February 1915 by the Bournemouth Municipal Orchestra under Dan Godfrey.\n\nThe symphony went through several revisions before reaching its final form. Vaughan Williams revised it for a performance in March 1918, and again in 1919–20. This second revision became the first published version and was recorded for the gramophone in 1925 by the London Symphony Orchestra conducted by Sir Dan Godfrey. It was also recorded in 1941 by the Cincinnati Symphony Orchestra conducted by Sir Eugene Goossens. It had already received its American premiere on 20 December 1920 when the New York Symphony Orchestra played it under the baton of Albert Coates. It is most unlikely that OUP sanctioned the use of the 1920 version in Goossens' recording, since Vaughan Williams had withdrawn it and all scores of the 1933 revision carry the statement \"This revised edition supersedes the Original Version which should no longer be used\". However, this recording was made in the darkest days of World War II, when communications between Britain and the USA were difficult, and a \"rogue\" set was used. In fact, the 1920 version was already in the public domain in the US, having been published before 1923, so it may simply have been cheaper to record that version. It was still possible to buy scores and parts of the 1920 version in the USA until early in the 21st century, although this is no longer the case.\n\nWhile he was working on his fourth symphony in 1933, Vaughan Williams made time to revise \"A London Symphony\" yet again. He regarded this version, which was published in 1936, as the definitive one, and it is this version that entered the repertoire, being played in concert and on record by many conductors. However, in 2001, when the composer's widow, Ursula, gave permission for a recording of the original 1914 score, there was a widely expressed view among music critics that the composer had cut many bars of interesting music. One writer commented: \"The 1913 score is more meditative, dark-shaded and tragic in tone, almost Mahleresque in its inclusiveness. By 1933, Vaughan Williams's concept of symphonic architecture was becoming more aligned with a Sibelian logic and severity.\"\n\nThe main differences between the first and last versions may be summarised as follows:\n\nBelow is a summary of the changes made between the original and the two published versions. It shows the number of bars in each movement and the total for the whole symphony:\n\nThe final version is more than twenty minutes shorter than the original, as some indicative timings show:\n\n1914 version:\n1920 revision:\n1933/36 revision:\n\nThere have been 28 recordings:\n\nGodfrey – LSO – \nColumbia 78s L 1717–22 (24 April and 1 May 1925)\n\nWood – Queen's Hall Orchestra – \nDecca 78s X 114–8 (21–22 April 1936)\n\nGoossens – Cincinnati SO – \nRCA Victor 78s 11 8375–8379 in set M 916 (19–20 Feb 1941)\n\nMitropoulos – NBC SO – \nPristine Audio XR PASC 234 (Studio 8H, New York, 9 December 1945)\n\nBoult – LPO – \nDecca LXT 2693 (Kingsway Hall, 8–11 Jan 1952)\n\nBarbirolli – Hallé – \nPye Red Label CCL 30134 (Free Trade Hall, 28–29 Dec 1957)\n\nSargent – Chicago SO – \nCSO CD 4677 00-07 (Ravinia, 6 July 1967)\n\nBarbirolli – Hallé – \nHMV ASD 2360 (Abbey Road, London, 11–14 July 1967)\n\nBoult – LPO – \nHMV ASD 2740 (Kingsway Hall, 1–2 March 1971)\n\nPrevin – LSO – \nRCA Red Seal SB 6860 (Kingsway Hall, 6–7 Jan 1972)\n\nHandley – LPO – \nClassics for Pleasure CFP 40286 (Kingsway Hall, 5–6 Jan 1977)\n\nPrevin – RPO – \nTelarc CD 80138 (Fairfield Halls, Croydon, 15–16 Sep 1986)\n\nHaitink – LPO – \nEMI CDC 7 49394 2 (Abbey Road, 9 October 1986)\n\nThomson – LSO – \nChandos CHAN 8629 (St Jude-on-the-Hill, Hampstead, 14–15 March 1988)\n\nRozhdestvensky – USSR StSO – \nMelodiya CD 10-02170-2 (Philharmonia Building, Leningrad, 2 May 1988)\n\nHughes – Philharmonia – \nASV CD DCA 634 (St Peter's Church, Morden, 1–2 Dec 1988)\n\nSlatkin – Philharmonia – \nRCA Victor Red Seal 09026-61193-2 (Abbey Road, 1 June to 29 November 1991)\n\nHandley – RLPO – \nEMI Eminence CD EMX 2209 (Philharmonic Hall, Liverpool, 3–4 March 1992)\n\nDavis-A – BBC SO – \nTeldec 4509-90858-2 (St Augustine's Church, London, March 1993)\n\nBakels – Bournemouth SO – \nNaxos 8.550734 (Poole Arts Centre, 5–6 April 1993)\n\nNorrington – LPO – \nDecca 467 047-2 (25–27 Nov 1996)\n\nHickox – LSO – \nChandos CHAN 9902 (19 Dec 2000)\n\nSeaman – Melbourne SO – \nABC Classics 476 8363 (Hamer Hall, Melbourne, 6–7 May 2005)\n\nElder – Hallé – \nHallé CD HLL 7529 (Bridgewater Hall, 14 October 2010)\n\nSeaman – Rochester Philharmonic – \nHarmonia Mundi HMU 807567 (March 2011)\n\nYates (1920 version) – Royal Scottish National Orchestra – \nDutton Epoch CDLX 7322 (13 Jan 2015)\n\nManze – RLPO – \nOnyx 4155 (Philharmonic Hall, Liverpool, 29–30 March 2015)\n\nBrabbins (1920 version) – BBC SO – \nHyperion CDA 68190 (Henry Wood Hall, Nov. 2016)\n"}
{"id": "2023887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2023887", "title": "Yarragon, Victoria", "text": "Yarragon, Victoria\n\nYarragon is a small town in the Baw Baw Shire in the West Gippsland region of Victoria, Australia. The town lies on the Princes Highway and the main Gippsland Railway line approximately halfway between the major towns of Warragul and Moe. Hills of the Strzelecki Ranges rise over 500 metres immediately to the south of the town providing a spectacular backdrop, while the Moe River and the lowlands lie to the north and east. Mount Worth at 515m above sea level is the highest near peak to the south in the Mount Worth State Park 16 kilometres SSW of Yarragon. Mount Baw Baw at 1563m in the Baw Baw Ranges as part of the Great Dividing Range to the north is approximately 85 kilometres NNE of Yarragon. The township sits at approximately 88 metres above sea level. At the , Yarragon had a population of 1131.\n\nThe town was a centre for dairy farms in the vicinity (a former dairy factory lies to the north of the railway line), as well as logging activities in the heavily forested hills to the south. The Post Office opened around October 1878 as Waterloo, Gippsland and was renamed Yarragon in 1883.\n\nSignificant expansion of facilities and businesses along Yarragon's main Princes Highway streetscape since the 1990s aimed at capitalising on the tourist potential of passing traffic has resulted in the town being informally dubbed 'Yarragon Village'.\n\nThe town has its own railway station on the Bairnsdale railway line. The station is unstaffed and its buildings are 100 years old as of April 2012. the two platform station used to also be home to rail yards and storage for track gangs.\n\nYarragon has an Australian rules football team, known as the Power (formerly the Panthers), competing in the Mid Gippsland Football League which won the Under 18's Premiership in 2013 and the Under 16's in 2012. Yarragon is also home to the Yarragon Netball Club.\n\nYarragon has two weekly local newspapers, \"The Warragul and Drouin Gazette\" and a free publication, \"The West Gippsland Trader\". According to the Warragul Regional Newspapers website, The Gazette and The Trader are distributed to locations from as far as Pakenham to Moe and from Poowong to Noojee covering over 40,000 readers.\n\nYarragon is also serviced by free monthly tabloid and online newspaper the \"Warragul & Baw Baw Citizen\". The paper was established as \"The Warragul Citizen\" in 2011 as a quarterly print paper before becoming bimonthly in 2012, covering Warragul, Drouin and Yarragon. The paper's online news offering started in late 2011, covering all of Baw Baw. The paper moved to being online-only in 2013, before returning to print in its present form in July 2014.\n\nWarragul Radio stations Star FM and 3GG service this region.\n\n"}
{"id": "2023896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2023896", "title": "MANIAC II", "text": "MANIAC II\n\nThe MANIAC II (Mathematical Analyzer Numerical Integrator And Computer Model II) was a first-generation electronic computer, built in 1957 for use at Los Alamos Scientific Laboratory.\n\nMANIAC II was built by the University of California and the Los Alamos Scientific Laboratory, completed in 1957 as a successor to MANIAC I. It used 2,850 vacuum tubes and 1,040 semiconductor diodes in the arithmetic unit. Overall it used 5,190 vacuum tubes, 3,050 semiconductor diodes, and 1,160 transistors.\n\nIt had 4,096 words of memory in Magnetic-core memory (with 2.4 microsecond access time), supplemented by 12,288 words of memory using Williams tubes (with 15 microsecond access time). The word size was 48 bits. Its average multiplication time was 180 microseconds and the average division time was 300 microseconds.\n\nBy the time of its decommissioning, the computer was all solid-state, using a combination of\nRTL, DTL and TTL. It had an array multiplier, 15 index registers, 16K of 6-microsecond cycle time core memory, and 64K of 2-microsecond cycle time core memory. A NOP instruction took about 2.5 microseconds. A multiplication took 8 microseconds and a division 25 microseconds. It had a paging unit using 1K word pages with an associative 16-deep lookup memory. A 1-megaword CDC drum was hooked up as a paging device. It also had several ADDS Special-Order Direct-View Storage-Tube terminals. These terminals used an extended character set which covered about all the mathematical symbols, and allowed for half-line spacing for math formulas. \nFor I/O, it had two IBM 360 series nine-track and two seven-track 1/2\" tape drives. It had an eight-bit paper-tape reader and punch, and a 500 line-per-minute printer (1500 line-per-minute using the hexadecimal character set). Storage was three IBM 7000 series 1301 disk drives, each having two modules of 21.6 million characters apiece.\n\nOne of the data products of MANIAC II was the table of numbers appearing in the book \"The 3-j and 6-j Symbols\" by Manuel Rotenberg, et al., published in 1959. Page 37 of that book contains a brief description of the implementation of the program on the computer, and the I/O devices used in the production of the book.Hoover was also the co-creator\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2023907", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2023907", "title": "Orange-winged amazon", "text": "Orange-winged amazon\n\nThe orange-winged amazon (\"Amazona amazonica\"), also known locally as orange-winged parrot and loro guaro, is a large amazon parrot. It is a resident breeding bird in tropical South America, from Colombia, Trinidad and Tobago south to Peru, Bolivia and central Brazil. Its habitat is forest and semi-open country. Although common, it is persecuted as an agricultural pest and by capture for the pet trade (over 66,000 captured from 1981 to 1985). It is also hunted as a food source. Introduced breeding populations have been reported in Puerto Rico .\n\nThere are two subspecies:\n\nThe orange-winged amazon is a mainly green parrot about long and weighing about 340 g. It has blue and yellow feathers on its head which varies in extent between individuals. The upper mandible is partly horn colored (gray) and partly dark-gray. It has orange feathers in the wings and tail, which can be seen when in flight. The male and female are identical in external appearance.\n\nThe orange-winged amazons are noisy birds and makes loud, high-pitched screams. It eats fruit and seeds, including the fruit of palm trees and sometimes cocoa. It roosts communally in palm and other trees, and large numbers can be seen at the roost sites at dawn and dusk. It is becoming common as a feral bird in the Miami, Florida area, and there are colonies in London, England.\n\nThe orange-winged amazon nests in tree cavities. The eggs are white and there are usually three or four in a clutch. The female incubates the eggs for about 26 days and the chicks leave the nest about 60 days after hatching.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2023922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2023922", "title": "Wallace Ford", "text": "Wallace Ford\n\nWallace Ford (born Samuel Grundy Jones, 12 February 1898 – 11 June 1966) was an English-born naturalized American vaudevillian, stage, film and television actor. Usually playing wise-cracking characters, he combined a tough but friendly faced demeanor with a small but powerful stocky physique.\n\nHe was born Samuel Grundy Jones in Bolton, Lancashire, England, into a working-class family of limited means. At the age of three he was placed by his uncle and aunt, in whose care he had been, into a Barnardo's orphanage home, since they were unable to maintain his upkeep along with their own several children. When he was seven, he and other children from similar backgrounds were shipped to Canada to be found new homes with farming foster families as a part of the British Empire's on-going programme to populate the territory.\n\nSamuel was adopted by a family in Manitoba. He was ill-treated, and became a serial runaway, being resettled several times with different families by the Canadian authorities. According to his own account, at the age of 11, he ran away for the last time and joined a vaudeville traveling troupe touring Canada called the Winnipeg Kiddies, where he acquired his initial training as a performer.\n\nIn 1914, 16-year-old Samuel and another youth named Wallace Ford decided to head south to the United States to seek their fortune, riding a freight train illicitly. During the trip, Ford was killed beneath the wheels of a train. Later, Samuel adopted as his stage name the name of his dead traveling companion.\n\nFollowing military service as a trooper at Fort Riley, Kansas, with the United States Army Cavalry during World War I, he became a vaudeville stage actor in an American stock company. In 1919, he performed in an adaptation of Booth Tarkington's \"Seventeen\", which played to full houses in Chicago for several months, before transferring to a successful run on Broadway in New York City. Ford became a successful Broadway performer through the Roaring Twenties, appearing in multiple productions, including the lead role in the Broadway smash hit \"Abie's Irish Rose\".\n\nIn motion pictures, he made his credited debut with \"Possessed\" in 1931, appearing with Clark Gable and Joan Crawford and the next year he was given the lead in Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer's \"Freaks\", directed by Tod Browning. Ford went on to have an extensive career over 30 years, appearing in more than 150 films, with lead roles in the 1930s and '40s in Hollywood B movies such as \"The Rogues' Tavern\" (1936), \"Murder by Invitation\" (1941), and \"Roar of the Press\" (1941), and supporting roles in larger feature films such as \"The Lost Patrol\" (1934), \"Shadow of a Doubt\" (1942), \"Spellbound\" (1945), and \"Dead Reckoning\" (1947).\n\nIn 1937, he returned to the Broadway stage to play the role of George in the original production of \"Of Mice and Men\".\n\nIn 1945, Ford appeared in the film \"Blood on the Sun\" alongside Jimmy Cagney, whose physique and acting style resembled his own. In the late 1940s and early 1950s, he transitioned into a character actor, appearing as a regular performer in the newly fashionable Western genre, and in multiple John Ford productions as one of his preferred support players.\n\nIn the latter stage of his career, during the 1950s and early 1960s, Ford performed increasingly on television. His final appearance on the \"small screen\" was on \"The Andy Griffith Show\" in 1964, playing \"Roger Hanover\", Aunt Bee's old flame. The next year he appeared in his last film, \"A Patch of Blue\", for which he received a Golden Laurel nomination. Ford's performance as \"Ole Pa\" in \"A Patch of Blue\" also proved to be the final role of his extensive acting career.\n\nThe actor became a naturalized United States citizen on May 8, 1942; by this act, he also legally changed his name from Samuel Grundy to Wallace Ford. He met his future wife Martha Haworth in 1922 while they were performing together on Broadway in \"Abie's Irish Rose\", she being a chorus girl at the time. They had one child, a daughter named Patricia (1927–2005).\n\nAfter the death of his wife in February 1966, Ford moved into the Motion Picture & Television Country House and Hospital at Woodland Hills, California, and died in the hospital there of heart failure four months later. His body was buried in an unmarked grave at Culver City's Holy Cross Cemetery.\n\n"}
{"id": "2023924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2023924", "title": "Clive Hale", "text": "Clive Hale\n\nClive Hale (1937 – 5 June 2005) was an Australian television news and current affairs presenter on the Australian Broadcasting Corporation (ABC) for 38 years.\n\nHale was born in Cowell, South Australia on the Eyre Peninsula. He was educated at Norwood High School and studied art at the South Australian School of Art with the intention of being an artist. Hale started his ABC career in Perth in 1959 appearing on Perth ABC-TV's first night on air. In 1967, he was the presenter on the Adelaide edition of This Day Tonight or TDT, a current-affairs broadcast at 7.30 pm. With Hale as the presenter, TDT became hugely influential in South Australian politics. Hale's popularity as the host of the South Australian edition of TDT was such that the ABC printed bumper stickers saying \"I like Clive\". When This Day Tonight was axed, Hale was the only original presenter left. Hale was the national host of the replacement program \"Nationwide\" when it began broadcasting in 1980. He would present the common stories broadcast across Australia with a state-based presenter presenting local current-affairs stories. After the end of \"Nationwide\", Hale became the national presenter of the Late Night News on ABC TV until 1995 when he was replaced by Indira Naidoo. As well, Hale read the weekend news in NSW. For three seasons from 1987, he also presented the antiques show \"For Love or Money\" with regular panellists such as antique dealer Peter Cook. He returned to Adelaide before his retirement in 1997. Hale died of cancer in 2005 and was survived by his wife, economist Helen Lapsley.\n\n"}
{"id": "2023925", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2023925", "title": "Seasoned salt", "text": "Seasoned salt\n\nSeasoned salt is a blend of table salt, herbs, spices, other flavourings, and sometimes monosodium glutamate (MSG). It is sold in supermarkets and is commonly used in fish and chip shops and other take-away food shops. Seasoned salt is often the standard seasoning on foods such as chicken, French fries, deep-fried seafood, and potatoes. \n\nThe seasoned salt industry in the United States sells US$100 million in seasoned salt annually. According to the US Federal Trade Commission, two brands make up 80% of that market.\n\nLawry's, the oldest commonly used \"seasoned salt\" in the US, was originally developed for seasoning steaks in the 1930s.\n\nSeason-All is the #2 seasoned salt in the US by market share.\n\nThe combined marketshare of Lawry's seasoned salt and Season-All was of sufficient concern that the FTC required McCormick, the former owner of the Season-All brand, to sell (divest) the Season-All brand to Morton as a condition of McCormick purchasing Lawry's seasonings in 2008.\n\nIn Louisiana and the surrounding states, many companies make Cajun/Creole seasonings.\nIt is a spicy blend of onion powder, garlic powder, paprika, oregano or thyme, salt, pepper, and chili powder. \nBrands include Tony Chachere's, Zatarain's and Paul Prudhomme.\n\nOld Bay is a celery-salt-based seasoned salt commonly used on seafood.\n\nInvented in the 1970s in the English city of Hull and claimed to have been inspired by American seasonings, \"chip spice\" was introduced into the United Kingdom in the 1970s in Kingston upon Hull by the Spice Blender company; the recipe was based on American spiced salts containing paprika.\n\nChicken salt was originally developed in the 1970s to season chicken for rotisseries.\n\nThe first recipe for chicken salt consisted of onion powder, garlic powder, celery salt, paprika, chicken bouillon and monosodium glutamate with some curry powder. Chicken salt is not related to the chicken flavouring or seasoning found on potato crisps, although it can be similar in appearance (both have a slight yellow colouring). There are versions of chicken salt that use chicken flavoring as well as vegan versions.\n\nIngredients vary by recipe or manufacturer. Common herbs and spices may include:\n\n\nAlso, for an \"umami\" taste:\n\n\n16. Chicken salt: Australia's beloved condiment\n"}
{"id": "2023944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2023944", "title": "Garnier", "text": "Garnier\n\nGarnier () is a mass market cosmetics brand of French cosmetics company L'Oréal. It produces hair care and skin care products.\nThe company started as \"Laboratoires Garnier\" in 1904 by French creator Alfred Amour Garnier, through the launch of his first patented plant-based hair lotion, La Lotion Garnier. In the 1930s, Garnier was an early producer of sun-care items and the first to make a permanent home hair color in 1960. It was acquired by L'Oréal in the 1970s. \n\nOver the decades Garnier expanded from hair color and hair care into skincare since acquisition in 1970. It began with branding their image as healthy beauty expert, by providing nature-based solutions to combat pollution, acne, UV and fatigue. Incorporating natural ingredients– fruits, seeds, buds and flowers, are regarded by Garnier as having \"highly beneficial\" skincare and haircare properties.\n\nNow, Garnier is sold in numerous countries worldwide, with specific product lines targeted for different skin types and cultures. \n\nA popular line, Fructis, started in 1996, is the Garner line of hair care and styling products. Garnier's hair color line, Nutrisse, was released in 2002. Amidst five divisions, Garnier currently have a variety of product lines such as:\n\n\nIn 2011, Garnier partnered with TerraCycle to promote upcycling of product containers and the introduction of biodegradable products. Later in 2019, they partnered with an environmental group called GoodPlanet Foundation to create a new line of organic, natural cosmetics Garnier Bio/Bio Garnier.\n\nIn 2019, Garnier launched their virtual shade selector tool which allows customers to try on Garnier's range of permanent hair color options before making a purchase. The technology can be used either online or in stores selling the brand's products. The technology has been trialed by Walmart and Walgreens.\n\nGarnier hair care and skin care products is regarded in several countries as one of the most trusted brands particularly in Asia, China & India. Garnier is ranked worldwide #7 most valuable beauty brands for Brand Strength Index, according to Brand Finance. \n\nIndividual country data on Gartner, a member-based business intelligence firm that benchmarks the digital performance of brands per nation, Garnier is #3 fast-moving consumer goods in UK while FMCG ranked #10 in Germany. It ranked Top #21-29 for personal care in the United States in 2018 and 2019.\n\nFor Asia rankings, Brand Trust Report 2012, Garnier was ranked 73rd among India's most trusted brands and subsequently, according to the Brand Trust Report 2013, Garnier was ranked 47th among India's most trusted brands. In 2014 however, Garnier was ranked 83rd among India's most trusted brands according to the Brand Trust Report 2014, a study conducted by Trust Research Advisory, a brand analytics company.\n\nSeveral products of Garnier have been featured on Good Housekeeping and won categorical awards on Allure's \"Best of Beauty\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2023957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2023957", "title": "Fan Museum", "text": "Fan Museum\n\nThe Fan Museum, which opened in 1991, is the world's first museum dedicated to the preservation and display of hand fans. It is located within two grade II* listed houses that were built in 1721 within the Greenwich World Heritage Site in southeast London, England. Along with the museum, there is an orangery decorated with murals, a Japanese-style garden with a fan-shaped parterre, a pond, and a stream.\n\nThe museum owns over 4,000 fans, fan leaves, and related ephemera. The oldest fan in the collection dates from the 10th century and the collection of 18th and 19th-century European fans is extensive. The entire collection is not displayed permanently due to conservation concerns, so three times a year the selection of fans on exhibit is changed. There is also a permanent educational display which teaches about fan history, manufacturing processes, and the various forms of fan.\n\nThe museum operates a conservation unit which undertakes specialist work for other museums and also for the public. New fans are made at the museum, and fan-making classes are held. The Fan Museum also contains a reference library.\n\nOperated by an independent charitable trust, the museum has received financial support from the London Tourist Board, English Heritage, the National Art Collections Fund, the Foundation for Sports and the Arts, The Heritage of London Trust and the Heritage Lottery Fund, and from many corporate and individual supporters. National Trust members receive a discount on admission.\n\nExhibits include a fan with a built-in ear trumpet and one with a repair kit built into the design.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2023962", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2023962", "title": "Roy Orbison discography", "text": "Roy Orbison discography\n\nRoy Orbison (April 23, 1936 – December 6, 1988) was an American singer-songwriter who found the most success in the early rock and roll era from 1956 to 1964. He later enjoyed a resurgence in the late 1980s with chart success as a member of the Traveling Wilburys and with his \"Mystery Girl\" album which included the hit single \"You Got It\". At the height of his popularity, 22 of Orbison's songs placed on the US \"Billboard\" Top 40 chart, and six peaked in the top five, including two number one hits. In the UK, Orbison scored ten top-10 hits between 1960 and 1966, including three No. 1 singles.\n\nBorn and raised in Texas, Orbison got his start in a rockabilly band in high school. According to the official Roy Orbison discography by Marcel Riesco, Orbison's first release was in March 1956 on the Je-Wel label. He broke into professional music under Sam Phillips at Sun Records in the summer of 1956, but found only marginal success there. After a couple years writing for other musicians (including \"Claudette\" recorded by The Everly Brothers), Orbison recorded several songs at Monument Records under producer Fred Foster starting in 1959. With Foster, Orbison and his frequent songwriting partners Joe Melson and Bill Dees tailored many of Orbison's songs for his unique voice; his most popular songs were dramatic ballads ending with emotional crescendos that showcased his powerful vocals. After his biggest hit in 1964, \"Oh, Pretty Woman\", Orbison continued to record and chart intermittently in the UK, but it was not until 1987 that he again found the level of popular worldwide success he had known in the early 1960s, when his original recording of \"In Dreams\" was used in David Lynch's film \"Blue Velvet\". The following year, Orbison co-founded the supergroup Traveling Wilburys with George Harrison, Jeff Lynne, Bob Dylan and Tom Petty. Lynne produced Orbison's final album \"Mystery Girl\", which was released posthumously in February 1989.\n\nThis discography shows main official U.S. and U.K. releases. According to Riesco's official Orbison discography, there were numerous international single and album releases of importance (not released in the U.S. or U.K.) like the German \"San Fernando\" b/w \"Mama\" (London DL 20 726).\n\nThere are hundreds of compilations and greatest hits of Roy Orbison released internationally. Below is a selection of all the compilation albums which have achieved global chart peaks. For a more complete list of compilation releases, see Discogs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2023975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2023975", "title": "Sirmilik National Park", "text": "Sirmilik National Park\n\nSirmilik National Park (; Inuktitut: \"the place of glaciers\") is a national park located in Qikiqtaaluk, Nunavut, Canada, established in 1999. Situated within the Arctic Cordillera, the park is composed of three areas: most of Bylot Island with the exception for a few areas that are Inuit-owned lands, Oliver Sound, and Baffin Island's Borden Peninsula. Much of the park is bordered by water.\n\nGeographically, it is representative of the Northern Eastern Arctic Lowlands Natural Region as well as parts of the Lancaster Sound Marine Region.\n\nIn the Inuktitut (or Inuit language, traditionally spoken across the North American Arctic) \"Sirmilik\" means \"place of glaciers,\" as it represents Bylot Island's plethora of glaciers and ice caps. As Canadian Arctic Inuktitut-speakers referred to northern Baffin Island as \"Sirmilik\", the name of the geographic region became the name of the national park.\n\nExtensive archaeological exploration of the park area has indicated that the area has been inhabited by humans for thousands of years. The earliest known are predecessors of the modern-day Inuit.\n\nThe area was explored by European whalers and by explorers in their search for the Northwest Passage. In the 1610s, the area was surveyed by British explorers William Baffin and Robert Bylot. They named several features of the area including Lancaster Sound and Bylot Island in 1616. It was 200 years before the next official attempt to find the Passage through this area. The expedition by the British explorer John Ross in 1818 confirmed the accuracy of Baffin's charts, but ended when he saw what he believed were mountains blocking the end of Lancaster Sound. The area was later thoroughly explored during an extensive aerial mapping program of Northern Canada by the Canadian Government which took from the 1930s until the late 1950s to complete.\n\nThe Byam Martin Mountains on Bylot Island were climbed by Pat Biard and then Ben Farris in 1954, including Mount Thule. In 1963 British explorer Bill Tilman traversed the island, but did not climb any of the larger peaks. In 1977, a Canadian expedition of Rob Kelly and others climbed 20 peaks of Bylot Island, and in 1984 Mike Schmidt with others climbed 28 peaks, including 16 first ascents.\n\nThe park was first established as a bird sanctuary in 1965 and monitored by the Canadian Wildlife Service because of its seabird colonies. The area officially became a national park in 2001. Today, the area is inhabited by the Inuit who continue to hunt and fish as their ancestors did.\n\nThe park was the subject of a short film in 2011's \"National Parks Project\", directed by Zacharias Kunuk and scored by Andrew Whiteman, Dean Stone and Tanya Tagaq.\n\nThe park consists of three separate land and marine components. These are Oliver Sound, located to the south of Pond Inlet, characterised by a long narrow fjord flanked by towering cliffs and glaciers, the plateau and river valleys of the Borden Peninsula and Baillarge Bay, and finally Bylot Island, characterised by its rough terrain with mountains, coastal lowlands, icefields and glaciers. Hoodoos are unique eroded formations on Bylot Island and the Borden Peninsula. Evidence shows that the area was scoured by the Laurentide Ice Sheet, a massive sheet of ice that covered hundreds of thousands of square miles at least 20,000 years ago.\n\nThe Borden Peninsula extends north for and is – wide. The northern area, including the Hartz Mountains, are composed of flat, dissected rock rising to over above sea level. Admiralty Inlet forms a western border, with Elwin Inlet also to the west, while Navy Board Inlet forms a border to the east, separating the peninsula from Bylot Island. Navy Board Inlet's coastal cliffs rise to .\n\nBylot Island lies off the northern end of Baffin Island and with an area of , it is ranked 71st largest island in the world and Canada's 17th largest island. It is also one of the largest uninhabited islands in the world. While there are no permanent settlements on this Canadian Arctic island, Inuit from Pond Inlet and elsewhere regularly travel to Bylot Island. An Inuit seasonal hunting camp is located southwest of Cape Graham Moore. The Byam Martin Mountains extend from east to west across Bylot Island and are an extension of the Baffin Mountains which in turn form part of the Arctic Cordillera mountain system. The highest mountain in the range is Angilaaq Mountain, , located near the island's centre. The Byam Martin Mountains are made up of Archean-Aphebian igneous crystalline rock and Proterozoic metasedimentary and metamorphic rock, such as gneiss. Sharp peaks and ridges, divided by deep glacier-filled valleys are typical features in the range and has been extensively modified by glacial erosion. Extensive glaciers dot the island including the Kaparoqtalik Glacier. Vertical cliffs along the coastline are made up of Precambrian dolomite. The island's north shore faces Lancaster Sound, a polar bear maternity den area, also noted for its high concentrations of marine wildlife. To the northeast of the park is Baffin Bay and to the south lies Pond Inlet and Eclipse Sound.\n\nIn the north of Baffin Island, there is a polar maritime climate which means long, cold winters and short, cool summers. The spring does not end until mid-June and the warmest period is late July and early August, with average maximum temperatures of 10 °C. The coldest month is January as the average maximum temperatures of about −30 °C. Rainfall is relatively abundant, contributing to the flora seen in the park.\n\nBeluga whales, Arctic foxes, seals, Arctic hares, walruses, and caribou are found in this park. Bylot Island is a migratory area for narwhals. Sirmilik is one of eight Canadian national parks that contains polar bears. Arctic tundra wolves roam and inhabit this park.\n\nA major seabird colony is located in the area of Baillarge Bay. Seabird colonies are also located on Bylot Island which have a large colony and nesting area of greater snow geese. More than seventy species of birds have been recorded here, of which about forty are known to breed. The park is known to be an important bird sanctuary. In 1965, Bylot Island enclosed within the park was also declared as a \"Migratory Bird Sanctuary\" in view of the large number of migratory birds in the area. A record 100,000 birds are reported to pass the park during summer months every year, and the large geese population of the island is known to constitute the most abundant herbivores of the island. On some of Bylot Island's rugged cliffs within the park, thousands of nesting birds can be found including 300,000 thick-billed murre and 80,000 black-legged kittiwake.\n\nThe wetlands of the park (10% of the area) have abundant vegetation of water sedge (\"Carex aquatilis\"), white cottongrass (\"Eriophorum scheuchzeri\") and tall cottongrass (\"Eriophorum angustifolium\"). Other types of grass include the Fisher’s tundragrass (\"Dupontia fisheri\"), the polar grass (\"Arctagrostis latifolia\") and semaphore grass (\"Pleuropogon sabinei\"). In addition, several species of brown moss have been recorded. In the Arctic environment of the southern part of the island 360 species of plants have been documented, which are considered to have rare quality and productivity.\n\nVegetation in the upland (on hill slopes and terraces) which constitute 90% of southern drier areas of the park consist of forbs, such as Arctic heather (\"Cassiope tetragona\"), mountain avens (\"Dryas integrifolia\"), Arctic poppy (\"Papaver radicatum\") and mountain sorrel (\"Oxyria digyna\"), grasses, such as polar grass (\"Arctagrostis latifolia\"), northern foxtail (\"Alopecurus alpinus\"), bluegrass (\"Poa arctica\") and northern wood rush (\"Luzula confusa\") and shrubs, such as Arctic willow (\"Salix arctica\") and northern bilberry (\"Vaccinium uliginosum\").\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2023977", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2023977", "title": "Chalcogenide glass", "text": "Chalcogenide glass\n\nChalcogenide glass (pronounced hard \"ch\" as in \"chemistry\") is a glass containing one or more chalcogens (sulfur, selenium and tellurium, but excluding oxygen). Such glasses are covalently bonded materials and may be classified as covalent network solids. Polonium is also a chalcogen but is not used because of its strong radioactivity. Chalcogenide materials behave rather differently from oxides, in particular their lower band gaps contribute to very dissimilar optical and electrical properties.\n\nThe classical chalcogenide glasses (mainly sulfur-based ones such as As-S or Ge-S) are strong glass-formers and possess glasses within large concentration regions. Glass-forming abilities decrease with increasing molar weight of constituent elements; i.e., S > Se > Te.\n\nChalcogenide compounds such as AgInSbTe and GeSbTe are used in rewritable optical disks and phase-change memory devices. They are fragile glass-formers: by controlling heating and annealing (cooling), they can be switched between an amorphous (glassy) and a crystalline state, thereby changing their optical and electrical properties and allowing the storage of information.\n\nMost stable binary chalcogenide glasses are compounds of a chalcogen and a group 14 or 15 element and may be formed in a wide range of atomic ratios. Ternary glasses are also known.\n\nNot all chalcogenide compositions exist in glassy form, though it is possible to find materials with which these non-glass-forming compositions can be alloyed in order to form a glass. An example of this is gallium sulphide-based glasses. Gallium(III) sulphide on its own is not a known glass former; however, with sodium or lanthanum sulphides it forms a glass, gallium lanthanum sulphide (GLS).\n\nUses include infrared detectors, mouldable infrared optics such as lenses, and infrared optical fibers, with the main advantage being that these materials transmit across a wide range of the infrared electromagnetic spectrum.\n\nThe physical properties of chalcogenide glasses (high refractive index, low phonon energy, high nonlinearity) also make them ideal for incorporation into lasers, planar optics, photonic integrated circuits, and other active devices especially if doped with rare-earth element ions. Some chalcogenide glasses exhibit several non-linear optical effects such as photon-induced refraction, and electron-induced permittivity modification\n\nSome chalcogenide materials experience thermally driven amorphous-to-crystalline phase changes. This makes them useful for encoding binary information on thin films of chalcogenides and forms the basis of rewritable optical discs and non-volatile memory devices such as PRAM. Examples of such phase change materials are GeSbTe and AgInSbTe. In optical discs, the phase change layer is usually sandwiched between dielectric layers of ZnS-SiO, sometimes with a layer of a crystallization promoting film. Other less commonly used such materials are InSe, SbSe, SbTe, InSbSe, InSbTe, GeSbSe, GeSbTeSe and AgInSbSeTe.\n\nIntel claims that its chalcogenide-based 3D XPoint memory technology achieves throughput and write durability 1,000 times higher than flash memory.\n\nElectrical switching in chalcogenide semiconductors emerged in the 1960s, when the amorphous chalcogenide TeAsSiGe was found to exhibit sharp, reversible transitions in electrical resistance above a threshold voltage. If current is allowed to persist in the non-crystalline material, it heats up and changes to crystalline form. This is equivalent to information being written on it. A crystalline region may be melted by exposure to a brief, intense pulse of heat. Subsequent rapid cooling then sends the melted region back through the glass transition. Conversely, a lower-intensity heat pulse of longer duration will crystallize an amorphous region. Attempts to induce the glassy–crystal transformation of chalcogenides by electrical means form the basis of phase-change random-access memory (PC-RAM). This technology has been developed to near commercial use by ECD Ovonics. For write operations, an electric current supplies the heat pulse. The read process is performed at sub-threshold voltages by utilizing the relatively large difference in electrical resistance between the glassy and crystalline states. Examples of such phase change materials are GeSbTe and AgInSbTe.\n\nThe semiconducting properties of chalcogenide glasses were revealed in 1955 by B.T. Kolomiets and N.A. Gorunova from Ioffe Institute, USSR.\n\nAlthough the electronic structural transitions relevant to both optical discs and PC-RAM were featured strongly, contributions from ions were not considered—even though amorphous chalcogenides can have significant ionic conductivities. At Euromat 2005, however, it was shown that ionic transport can also be useful for data storage in a solid chalcogenide electrolyte. At the nanoscale, this electrolyte consists of crystalline metallic islands of silver selenide (AgSe) dispersed in an amorphous semiconducting matrix of germanium selenide (GeSe).\n\nThe electronic applications of chalcogenide glasses have been an active topic of research throughout the second half of the twentieth century and beyond For example, the migration of dissolved ions is required in the electrolytic case, but could limit the performance of a phase-change device. Diffusion of both electrons and ions participate in electromigration—widely studied as a degradation mechanism of the electrical conductors used in modern integrated circuits. Thus, a unified approach to the study of chalcogenides, assessing the collective roles of atoms, ions and electrons, may prove essential for both device performance and reliability.\n\n"}
{"id": "2023982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2023982", "title": "New Mobile Report Gundam Wing Dual Story: G-Unit", "text": "New Mobile Report Gundam Wing Dual Story: G-Unit\n\n, released in the United States as Mobile Suit Gundam: The Last Outpost, is a side story that takes place concurrently with the \"Mobile Suit Gundam Wing\" anime series. The twelve-volume manga, drawn by Kōichi Tokita, was printed in Comic Bom Bom between May 1997 and March 1998, and later sold in three volumes by Kodansha. The English version was published by Tokyopop.\n\nUnlike most other Gundam Wing manga, G-UNIT does not feature any of the anime characters or Gundams, with the exception of a few brief cameos. Instead, the manga introduces an entirely new cast of characters and mobile suits. TokyoPop's English translation of G-UNIT, \"The Last Outpost,\" claims the story takes place in the asteroid belt, but this is an erroneous translation. The colony's test pilots fight to survive as the special forces group, OZ Prize, fights MO-V in a deadly war of attrition to acquire the colony's advanced mobile suits. This conflict, which begins as OZ begins its subtle conquest of space, drags on for months and eventually concludes at the same time as the Eve Wars.\n\nThe events outlined in the G-UNIT manga begin following the collapse of the United Earth Sphere Alliance government. The OZ organization, which subsequently rose to power, sought to quickly build a support base among the space colonies. One of the colonies which pledged its support was MO-V, a backwater asteroid belt colony with about 100,000 residents, known mainly for its outdated Leo production facilities. Because mobile dolls like the Taurus were replacing the aging Leo model, MO-V was largely ignored by OZ. However, a few people, notably Romefeller Foundation head Duke Dermail, knew about the colony's secret project to develop high-powered mobile suits.\n\nOdin Bernett Odin begins as a rash pilot who rushes headlong into fights before evaluating them. Initially enthusiastic about his role as a peacekeeper and Gundam pilot, Odin is forced to face reality as the war drags on. This experience helps him to grow more mature and responsible. Additionally, his skills also improve and he is able to activate the PX System and eclipse his brother's abilities.\n\nOdel Bernett Odel is calm and collected and possesses a good intuition both in and out of battle. His piloting skills are impressive, but he often finds himself on the losing end of fights. Still, his resolve to help MO-V survive is never suppressed, nor does he ever lose sight of his objectives. After losing Geminass unit 02, he adopts the identity \"Silver Crown\" and dons a mask to continue fighting from within Prize.\n\nLucille Aisley Lucille is a mechanic, her duties include programming the unit's systems and repairs, and she is highly proficient in both. She secretly harbors feelings for Odin but is more vocal in her displeasure for his various shenanigans.\n\nTricia Farrell Trica is a communications officer,her chief duties are operating the colony's communications and tracking equipment. She is Odel's fiancée.\n\nRoga Hermann Roga is the colony representative, he formerly worked with their father Mark and dreamed of humanity crossing the stars. Hermann cares deeply about the lives of his people and is determined to save the colony with as minimal damage as possible.\n\nDick Higasaki Dick is the chief engineer, he is an expert at repairing the Gundams and has made several impressive modifications to their complicated PX systems. He even whips up mobile dolls to serve as colony defenses from spare Leo parts and stolen data Odel brought from Grand Shario.\n\nRoche Nattono Also is leader of the Stardust Knights. He is devoted to knightly honor and pride above all things. However, that pride got the best of him when he was humiliated in battle against Odin, and he became enraged at his supposed inferiority. After Valder Farkill assumed leadership of his team, Roche joined MO-V's defenses and learned to keep his emotions in check.\n\nKratz Silvy Kratz is a Member of the Stardust Knights. She follows Roche but does not agree with his chivalrous ways. Thus, he welcomes the arrival of Farkill and happily joins his side so he can fight as effectively and brutally as he truly desires. His lust for power leads to his demise, however, as he pushes his mobile suit and mind past their limits.\n\nBroom Brooks Although his size and custom mobile suit speak volumes about his brute force, Broom is totally loyal to Roche's knightly approach and operates with restraint when called for. His refusal to accept Farkill's tactics results in his destruction.\n\nDr. Berg Formerly a mobile suit designer at MO-V, he defects to OZ Prize and continues to play both sides against the other by continually upgrading their Gundams. His goal is to develop the perfect weapon and will happily make whatever sacrifices necessary without any question of morality. His failsafe, the \"Auto-Destruct Program Berg-01\" he activated with his last breath, further proves his shallow nature.\n\nValder Farkill Nicknamed \"Dark General of Destruction\". In the battle against the UESA, he was in the same team as Zechs Merquise (the elite OZ \"Specials\"), but Farkill recorded more kills than everybody else combined. Farkill's abilities are nearly unmatched in combat, and he is driven by the mad desire to defeat Treize Khushrenada, a dream that he never got to realize.\n\nLuna Armonia Luna's beauty and charm cover her dark past, filled with ruthless combat and painful memories. She grew up as a guerilla and, along with sister Soris, managed to survive several difficult years before becoming a mobile suit pilot. She and Soris were recruited by Farkill and served him until their units were destroyed by Grand Shario's main cannon. She managed to survive, however, and was present at the Bernett-Farrell wedding.\n\nSoris Armonia Soris lacks Luna's grace but is a superb pilot, unwavering in the face of the enemy and unafraid to lose her life for what she believes. She helped her sister Luna survive a harsh guerilla war before becoming a mobile suit pilot. She and Luna served Farkill until their units were destroyed by Grand Shario's main cannon. She managed to survive, however, and was present at the Bernett-Farrell wedding.\n\nAretha Walker She is an officer aboard Grand Shario. She secretly harbors feelings for Roche Nattono and happily obeys any orders he gives. During Operation Pandora, she defects to MO-V to be at Roche's side.\n\nLon Sernan Lon is a Tech officer. He was present at Lake Victoria base when it was attacked by the Shenlong Gundam (Gundam Wing episode 4, \"The Victorian Nightmare\") and was later assigned to space fortress Barge. Sernan went to MO-V on a secret intelligence-gathering mission but was intercepted by Prize. He was rescued and taken to the colony, where he helped with MO-V's mobile suits until the war's end, when he joined the Preventers as Agent Quatorize.\n\nCaptain Cage Cage is the barge officer, he ordered Sernan on a top secret reconnaissance mission that was to be on his authority only - not even Lady Une was to know. Having apparently escaped Barge's destruction, he joined the Preventers after the war.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2023988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2023988", "title": "Kaifa Records", "text": "Kaifa Records\n\nKaifa Records was an Ethiopian record label. It released 53 records between 1973 and 1977. Ali Abdella Kaifa, better known as Ali Tango, managed the company. \n\nSingers who recorded for Kaifa included Alemayehu Eshete, Bezunesh Bekele, Mahmoud Ahmed and Hirut Bekele\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2023991", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2023991", "title": "SMIL (computer)", "text": "SMIL (computer)\n\nSMIL (, \"The Number Machine in Lund\") was a first-generation computer built at Lund University in Lund, Sweden. SMIL was based on the IAS architecture developed by John von Neumann.\n\nIn February 1962 SMIL was fitted with a compiler for ALGOL 60. The compiler was constructed by Torgil Ekman and Leif Robertson.\n\nCarl-Erik Fröberg was also behind the early emergence of numerical analysis as a separate university subject. In this context, he wrote himself and collaborated with others on several textbooks in computer education, for example, \"Textbook on Numerical Analysis\" (1962) and \"Textbook of Algol\" (1964). These books were widely distributed and translated into several languages.\n\nParts of SMIL are exhibited at Malmö Technical Museum.\n\nOn January 4, 2006, an emulator of SMIL named SMILemu was released with a Java and version.\n\n\"Smil\" is Swedish word for \"grin\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2023996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2023996", "title": "Washburn", "text": "Washburn\n\nWashburn (alternatively Wasseburne, Wasseborne, Wasshebourne, Wassheborne, Washbourne, Washburne, Washborne, Washborn, Wasborn, Washbon, Washman, etc.) is a toponymic surname, probably of Old English origin, with likely Anglo-Norman and Norman-French influences after the Conquest, as the name evolved.\n\nThis family, of Norman origin, can be traced through the lands in Worcestershire and Gloucestershire, namely the little hams of \"Little Washbourne\" and \"Great Washbourne\". Little Washbourne, historically in the parish of Overbury, and the manor thereon, eventually becoming known as \"Wasseburne Militis\" or \"Knyghtes Wasshebourne\", for the many from this line that bore that honour.\n\nIn the \"Herald's College, London\", Vol. I., page 54, is given: Washbourne. \"A name of ancient Norman descent; the founder was knighted on the field of battle by William the Conqueror and endowed with the lands of Little Washbourne and Great Washbourne, Counties of Gloucester and Worcester\".\n\nThe name may have come from the Saxon for \"from the flooding brook,\" with \"wash\" meaning \"swift moving current of a stream,\" and \"burn\" referring to a brook or a small stream. It may have originated from the River Isbourne, which flowed near Little and Great Washbourne.\n\nThe surname has several origins in England:\n\n\nThe name was anciently \"Wasseburn\" or \"-born\". C. W. Bardsley's \"Dictionary of English and Welsh Surnames\" states that \"Wasse\" was anciently and still is a common surname in Yorkshire. It is a place name derived from the various river and sea beaches subject to overflow by floods and tides, hence known as wasses and now as cashes. \"Wasseburn\" signified a flowing stream. The little ham that stood upon its banks took its name from the stream, and the proprietor or lord of the village was so and so de Wasseborn, just as the parson was the most important person in the parish. The form \"Wasseborn\" is the form first met with about 1100; and \"Wasseborn\" or \"-burn\" continued in common use by the family with the occasional addition of a final \"e\" until about the middle of the 17th century when the family wrote the name \"Washbourne\", a form which still prevails in England.\n\nThrough all the first two periods, writers of public documents, even of wills, felt themselves at liberty to suit their own convenience or taste in spelling the name, so that great varieties of spelling are found in public documents and varieties in the same document. Thus in the will of John Washburn of Bengeworth, it is \"Wassheburns\"; in his wife's \"Wasborn\"; in his son's \"Wasburne\" and in the inventory \"Wasborne\"; in the burgess' will \"Washborne\"; in his wife's \"Wasburne\" and \"Washborne\"; in the public registers of Bengeworth pretty uniformly \"Wasborne\". John the emigrant wrote his name \"Washborn\". In America three forms of spelling have prevailed - the most common \"Washburn\", \"Washborn\", and \"Washburne\", with even a greater variety of spelling of the name than is found in England, and not always by outsiders.\n\nEarly writer's suggested that the first to use the name, was Sir Roger d'Wasseburne, ancestor of the American immigrant Washburns' of Plymouth Colony.\n\nWashbourne Manor at Little Washbourne, was the ancient seat of the family, shown in Doomsday for that of Urse d'Abitot, and later held by \"William son of Samson\", in the time of Henry II (1154-1189). In 1280, Sir Roger d'Wasseburne paid a subsidy of 15s at Washbourne. Roger is shown as \"of Washbourne, Little Comberton and of Stanford\". His son Sir John d'Wasseburne, is recorded as \"of Washbourne, Bretforton & Orleton in Estham\". This Roger and John of the 1200s, are suggested as having been the first to use the surname, but this may not be correct.\n\nDescendant in the male line of the \"Knights Washbourne\", the first American colonist of the family, being that of John Washborn (Sr.), b. 1597 in Bengeworth, England, came to Plymouth Colony in c. 1631. His son, John Washburn (Jr.), b. 1620, also in Bengeworth, sailed to New England in 1635 on the \"Elizabeth & Ann\", with his mother Margery and brother Phillip. He married in 1645, Elizabeth Mitchell, daughter of Experience and Jane (Cooke) Mitchell, of Duxbury, Plymouth Colony. She was the granddaughter of Francis Cooke, who came to America on the \"Mayflower\". They settled first in Duxbury and had eleven children, including the first notable set of Seven Brothers in the American Washburn line. It has been suggested that a likely 90% of the American Washburns hail from one of these \"Seven Brothers\".\n\nAnother contributor to the American Washburn line, a younger brother of John Sr., William Washburne, the immigrant ancestor to Connecticut Colony, and later Hempstead, Long Island, did not join his brother John Washburn in Plymouth Colony. He remained in England, where he raised a large family, and finally sailed with his in-laws to New England. They settled first in Stratford, Connecticut Colony, with the Nichols', eventually settling in Hempstead. He and his wife, Jane Nichols, had 9 or 10 children.\n\nAccording to the 2000 U.S. Census, there were 19,505 Washburns in the United States, making it the 1,685th most common name in the country. There are also a number of Washburns in Canada, many of whom are descendants of United Empire Loyalist Ebenezer Washburn.\n\nThe first coat of arms met with for this family were recorded in the St George's Roll, c. 1285 for Sir Roger d'Wasseburne. The blazon, \"Gules bezantée on a canton or a raven sable\", suggested to early writers a familial connection to the Houses of la Zouche (\"Gules bezantée\") and le Corbet (\"Or a raven sable\"), but this connection has yet to be corroborated. It is possible that these arms were borne, rather, in feudal homage to these Houses, but again, this possibility is conjecture. The later recording of these same arms is shown here, by Joseph Foster in 1902, and suggests a slightly different blazon, \"Gules ten bezants 4, 3, 2, 1\" for la Zouche. This is actually a very common variation in heraldry and is noted so in the description of the arms on the page for Zouche.\n\nAnother coat of arms as shown in Burkes General Armory for \"Washborne\" - \"Gules bezantée on a canton or a cross sable\". The specific Washborne family member that bore these arms is, as yet unknown.\n\nWhen the vast estates that Urse d'Abitot had accumulated were usurped from his son Roger, a substantial portion of the same, including the lands of Little Washbourne, were ultimately bestowed upon his sister's husband, Sir Walter Beauchamp of Elmley. The Washbourne family that resided at Little Washbourne thereafter, did so as under-tenants to their now over-lords, the Beauchamps of Elmley Castle. The arms for this branch of Beauchamps' were \"Gules a fess between six martlets or\", as shown next.\n\nSir John d'Wasseburne, formally of Dufford, son of Sir Roger, is the first Washbourne to be suggested as having borne the Beauchamp \"a fess between six martlets\" arms, changing the tincture's to the Washbourne colors of Argent and Gules as shown.\n\nThe arms for Sir Walter Beauchamp of Elmley Castle, bore a red shield with gold fess and martlets, and the Washbournes' bore a silver shield with red charges, as shown above. This feudal homage was also borne by and recorded for several other families. Members of the Wysham, Walshe, Waleys, Burdett, Blount, Cardiff and other families, all bore these \"fess between six martlets\" arms, in differing tinctures. All of these other families are recorded as marrying into the Beauchamp family.\n\n Washburn College in Topeka, Kansas, adopted a variation of the Washbourne Arms, using creative license to alter the tinctures (colors), to its school's colors, and used it as its own logo. The college, originally chartered as \"and WichenfordCollege\", changed its name to \"Washburn College\", after a substantial pledge was received from Massachusetts Industrialist Ichabod Washburn. Since becoming \"Washburn University\", the school has abandoned the Washburn Arms logo. They're now using a stylized \"W\" in its place. The school mascot \"The Ichabod\", is still in use.\n\nThese Arms have been attributed to Anthony Washeborne of Bosbury, in Herefordshire. It is generally accepted that it was he who commissioned the Visitation on which these arms are blazoned. Differenced both in tincture (sable instead of gules), and the charges on the fess, from those showing \"quatrefoils slipped sideways\" or the \"cinquefoils of the field\" varieties. \n\n These are the Arms shown in the Chancel Tomb at St. Laurence Church in Wichenford, for John Washborne Esquire, Sheriff of Worcestershire, who had married both Mary Savage and Eleanor Lygon, and for his father Anthony Washborne Esquire of Wichenford Court. This main branch of the family were usually styled \"of Washbourne and Wichenford\", and the direct male line ceased with William Washbourne, Esq., of Wichenford and Pytchley. These Arms are the same as those uncovered from the old St. Peters (Evesham Abbey c. 1400's), and also as recorded in Papworth's Armorials and Burke's General Armory.\n\nWashbourne - Savage - Lygon\nOn the north side of the chancel is an altar tomb with two effigies in 17th-century armour, one on the slab and one beneath it. Behind are two female figures kneeling in recesses, with a classic cornice and ornament above crudely coloured and gilt. An inscription records that John Washbourne at the age of eighty-four built the monument for himself (the upper figure), his two wives Mary Savage and Eleanor Lygon, and his father Anthony (the lower figure).\nThere are four shields, the centre and highest one of the Washbourne arms. Below this is a shield quarterly of Washbourne quartered with Poer and Dabitot. To the west is a shield of these arms impaling the six lions of Savage. To the east is the same impaling the two lions passant of Lygon.\n\nThomas Habington gives us an early 1600s description of the interior. \n\nThe inscription on the edge face of the stone:\n\nThe inscription:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2023997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2023997", "title": "Fort Providence", "text": "Fort Providence\n\nFort Providence (Slavey language: \"Zhahti Koe\" or \"Zhahti Kue\" \"mission house\") is a hamlet in the South Slave Region of the Northwest Territories, Canada. Located west of Great Slave Lake, it has all-weather road connections by way of the Yellowknife Highway (Great Slave Highway) branch off the Mackenzie Highway, and the Deh Cho Bridge opened November 30, 2012 near Fort Providence over the Mackenzie. The bridge replaces the ice bridge and ferry, enabling year-round crossing of the river.\n\nFort Providence is well known for hosting the annual Mackenzie Days celebrations in August each year.\n\nFort Providence was founded in the 1860s as a Catholic mission site. By 1868, the Hudson's Bay Company, which previously has a trading post at Big Island at the source of the MacKenzie River, moved the post to the location of the mission site. From that moment, the settlement was known as Fort Providence. In 1867, the Grey Nuns opened a boarding school and an orphanage in the settlement. Instruction languages were English and French, and most of the nuns originated from Quebec.\n\nThe recorded population was 695 in the 2016 Census, a decrease of 5.3% from 2011. Of these the majority, 620, were Indigenous people, made up of 590 First Nations, Dene people, and 30 Métis. In 2017 the Government of the Northwest Territories reported that the population was 770 with an average yearly growth rate of 0.3% from 2007.\nThe Dene of the community are represented by the Deh Gáh Got'ı̨ę First Nation and the Métis by Fort Providence Métis Nation. Both groups belong to the Dehcho First Nations.\n\nFort Providence has a continental subarctic climate typical of the Northwest Territories' populated areas. It is marked by a long cold winter season and short, warm summers, that in many ways are warmer than expected for an area so far north. Transition seasons are extremely short, with temperatures rising and falling quickly in respective seasons.\n\n"}
{"id": "2024000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024000", "title": "Bromus ramosus", "text": "Bromus ramosus\n\nBromus ramosus, the hairy brome, is a bunchgrass in the grass family Poaceae, native to Europe, northwest Africa and southwest Asia. The name \"Bromus\" comes from the term brome, meaning oats. Unlike most other bromes (\"Bromus\" sp.), it grows in shady sites under trees.\n\n\"Bromus ramosus\" is a perennial herbaceous bunchgrass, typically reaching tall. The leaves are long, usually drooping, long and wide, and finely hairy.\n\nThe flower spike is gracefully arched with pendulous spikelets on long slender stems in pairs on the main stem.\n\n"}
{"id": "2024004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024004", "title": "Samuel Ong", "text": "Samuel Ong\n\nSamuel Ong (1945-2009) was a former deputy director of the National Bureau of Investigation (NBI) of the Philippines and is a whistleblower, declaring that the 2004 national elections was rigged, starting an electoral crisis.\n\nIn 2005, Ong announced he was in possession of a set of four original audio tapes, made as part of a wiretapping operation conducted by Air Force T/Sgt. Vidal Doble of military intelligence, containing a recording of a conversation between President Gloria Arroyo and Virgilio Garcillano, an official of the Commission on Elections. Ong claimed that four of the tapes incriminate Arroyo and all of the other politicians who were officially declared winners of the 2004 elections. \nIn 2005, Ong was charged with sedition, for allegedly calling for civil disobedience.\n\nOng had lung cancer and died, aged 64.\n"}
{"id": "2024012", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024012", "title": "Brome", "text": "Brome\n\nBrome may refer to:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2024025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024025", "title": "New Bullards Bar Dam", "text": "New Bullards Bar Dam\n\nNew Bullards Bar Dam is a variable radius concrete arch dam constructed in the early 1960s in California on the North Yuba River. Located near the town of Dobbins in Yuba County, the dam forms the New Bullards Bar Reservoir, which can hold about 969,600 acre⋅ft (1,196,000 dam) of water. The dam serves for irrigation, drinking water and hydroelectric power generation.\n\nNew Bullards Bar Dam was constructed by the Yuba County Water Agency. The agency was created through an act of the state legislature in 1959 specifically to construct a flood control reservoir in response to a flooding event in 1955. The bulk of the financing for the dam came from the issuance of revenue bonds. The dam was completed in 1969.\n\nThe dam is the fourth constructed on the Bullards Bar site, succeeding diversion dams built in 1899 and 1900 as well as a concrete arch dam built by the Yuba River Power Company and transferred to Pacific Gas and Electric Company in 1922. The dam generated power from 1924 until its inundation by the New Bullards Bar Reservoir in 1969. Although the 1899 diversion dam was washed away, the 1900 dam is still in place about a quarter mile (0.4 km) downstream from the present dam.\n\nNew Bullards Bar Reservoir provides flood control space between September 15 and May 31 of each year. There are of flood control storage space between October 31 and March 31.\n\nThe reservoir controls water flows from the North Yuba River, as well as from the Middle Yuba River and Oregon Creek via diversion tunnels. The Our House Diversion Dam is situated on the Middle Yuba about above its mouth and diverts water into a tunnel with a capacity of , running northwest to the Log Cabin Diversion Dam on Oregon Creek. From here the combined waters of the Middle Yuba and Oregon Creek are sent west into a shorter tunnel with a capacity of into the eastern (Willow Creek) arm of New Bullards Bar Reservoir. The diversions add about to the effective catchment area of New Bullards Bar Reservoir. The entire diversion and reservoir system is collectively known as the Yuba River Development Project.\n\nFlood operations in the New Bullards Bar Reservoir water control manual are in part defined with being linked to operations in Marysville Dam. Marysville Dam was supposed to be built as part of a system of dams in the Sacramento Basin along with New Bullards Bar and Oroville Dam, but it was never built. Marysville Dam is still a defining function in the downstream channel capacity constraints even though it is non-existent.\n\nThe dam furnishes water via a penstock through a mountain to the New Colgate Powerhouse, which is located downstream. The added distance increases the hydraulic head, \"i.e.\", elevation change. Its two Pelton wheels have a combined capacity of 340 megawatts and are the largest of their kind in the world. At maximum generation, the powerhouse utilizes a flow of , and is an important source of peaking power for the region. The small Fish Release powerhouse was constructed in 1986 at the base of the dam. It has a capacity of 150 kilowatts and generates power from water releases for fish on the Yuba River. Total annual generation at New Colgate Powerhouse is about 1,314,000 megawatt hours (MWh), while the Fish Release powerhouse produces 1,300 MWh.\n\nThe aforementioned 14-foot (4.3 m)-diameter penstock drains water from the New Bullards Bar Reservoir several miles through a mountain and down a large hill to deliver water to the New Colgate Powerhouse. In 2006 a 168-inch (4.3 m) butterfly valve was designed and manufactured in Europe for installation in the penstock at the top of the hill to protect the powerhouse from flooding in the event that an earthquake or other event caused the penstock to rupture. This valve uses a design similar to that of the dam's base release works.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2024030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024030", "title": "Tail Lights Fade", "text": "Tail Lights Fade\n\nTail Lights Fade is a 1999 Canadian film directed by Malcolm Ingram and starring Denise Richards, Jake Busey, Breckin Meyer, Elizabeth Berkley, Jason Mewes, and Lisa Marie. The film follows two couples and their race across Canada to bail one of their brothers out of a marijuana charge by clearing out the grow house completely. The film's namesake gets its title from a 1992 Buffalo Tom song, which is also on the soundtrack.\n\n\nIn an interview for website IGN, writer/director Malcolm Ingram described the experience as being very unpleasant to handle.\n\n"}
{"id": "2024031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024031", "title": "Omega (audio drama)", "text": "Omega (audio drama)\n\nOmega is a Big Finish Productions audio drama based on the long-running British science fiction television series \"Doctor Who\".\n\nJolly Chronolidays is offering sight-seeing tours of the \"Sector of Forgotten Souls\", the place where in ancient times the Time Lord Omega detonated a star that enabled the Time Lords the power to travel through time, and was lost. When the Fifth Doctor arrives, he discovers that Omega might not be as lost as was thought.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2024036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024036", "title": "Multi-channel memory architecture", "text": "Multi-channel memory architecture\n\nIn the fields of digital electronics and computer hardware, multi-channel memory architecture is a technology that increases the data transfer rate between the DRAM memory and the memory controller by adding more channels of communication between them. Theoretically this multiplies the data rate by exactly the number of channels present. Dual-channel memory employs two channels. The technique goes back as far as the 1960s having been used in IBM System/360 Model 91 and in CDC 6600.\n\nModern high-end processors like the Intel Core i9 and AMD Ryzen Threadripper series, along with various Xeons support quad-channel memory. In March 2010, AMD released Socket G34 and Magny-Cours Opteron 6100 series processors with support for quad-channel memory. In 2006, Intel released chipsets that support quad-channel memory for its LGA771 platform and later in 2011 for its LGA2011 platform. Microcomputer chipsets with even more channels were designed; for example, the chipset in the AlphaStation 600 (1995) supports eight-channel memory, but the backplane of the machine limited operation to four channels. \n\nDual-channel-enabled memory controllers in a PC system architecture use two 64-bit data channels. Dual-channel should not be confused with double data rate (DDR), in which data exchange happens twice per DRAM clock. The two technologies are independent of each other, and many motherboards use both by using DDR memory in a dual-channel configuration.\n\nDual-channel architecture requires a dual-channel-capable motherboard and two or more DDR, DDR2, DDR3, DDR4, or DDR5 memory modules. The memory modules are installed into matching banks, each of which belongs to a different channel). The motherboard's manual will provide an explanation of how to install memory for that particular unit. A matched pair of memory modules may usually be placed in the first bank of each channel, and a different-capacity pair of modules in the second bank. Modules rated at different speeds can be run in dual-channel mode, although the motherboard will then run all memory modules at the speed of the slowest module. Some motherboards, however, have compatibility issues with certain brands or models of memory when attempting to use them in dual-channel mode. For this reason, it is generally advised to use identical pairs of memory modules, which is why most memory manufacturers now sell \"kits\" of matched-pair DIMMs. Several motherboard manufacturers only support configurations where a \"matched pair\" of modules are used. A matching pair needs to match in:\n\nDual-channel architecture is a technology implemented on motherboards by the motherboard manufacturer and does not apply to memory modules. Theoretically any matched pair of memory modules may be used in either single- or dual-channel operation, provided the motherboard supports this architecture.\n\nTheoretically, dual-channel configurations double the memory bandwidth when compared to single-channel configurations. This should not be confused with double data rate (DDR) memory, which doubles the usage of DRAM bus by transferring data both on the rising and falling edges of the memory bus clock signals.\n\nA benchmark performed by TweakTown, using SiSoftware Sandra, measured around 70% increase in performance of a quadruple-channel configuration, when compared to a dual-channel configuration. Other tests performed by TweakTown on the same subject showed no significant differences in performance, leading to a conclusion that not all benchmark software is up to the task of exploiting increased parallelism offered by the multi-channel memory configurations.\n\nDual-channel was originally conceived as a way to maximize memory throughput by combining two 64-bit buses into a single 128-bit bus. This is retrospectively called the \"ganged\" mode. However, due to lackluster performance gains in consumer applications, more modern implementations of dual-channel use the \"unganged\" mode by default, which maintains two 64-bit memory buses but allows independent access to each channel, in support of multithreading with multi-core processors.\n\n\"Ganged\" versus \"unganged\" difference could also be envisioned as an analogy with the way RAID 0 works, when compared to JBOD. With RAID 0 (which is analogous to \"ganged\" mode), it is up to the additional logic layer to provide better (ideally even) usage of all available hardware units (storage devices, or memory modules) and increased overall performance. On the other hand, with JBOD (which is analogous to \"unganged\" mode) it is relied on the statistical usage patterns to ensure increased overall performance through even usage of all available hardware units.\n\nDDR3 triple-channel architecture is used in the Intel Core i7-900 series (the Intel Core i7-800 series only support up to dual-channel). The LGA 1366 platform (e.g. Intel X58) supports DDR3 triple-channel, normally 1333 and 1600Mhz, but can run at higher clock speeds on certain motherboards. AMD Socket AM3 processors do not use the DDR3 triple-channel architecture but instead use dual-channel DDR3 memory. The same applies to the Intel Core i3, Core i5 and Core i7-800 series, which are used on the LGA 1156 platforms (e.g., Intel P55). According to Intel, a Core i7 with DDR3 operating at 1066 MHz will offer peak data transfer rates of 25.6 GB/s when operating in triple-channel interleaved mode. This, Intel claims, leads to faster system performance as well as higher performance per watt.\n\nWhen operating in triple-channel mode, memory latency is reduced due to interleaving, meaning that each module is accessed sequentially for smaller bits of data rather than completely filling up one module before accessing the next one. Data is spread amongst the modules in an alternating pattern, potentially tripling available memory bandwidth for the same amount of data, as opposed to storing it all on one module.\n\nThe architecture can only be used when all three, or a multiple of three, memory modules are identical in capacity and speed, and are placed in three-channel slots. When two memory modules are installed, the architecture will operate in dual-channel architecture mode.\n\nIntel Core i7:\n\nIntel Xeon:\n\nQuad-channel DDR4 has replaced DDR3 on the Intel X99 LGA 2011 platform, and is also used in AMD's Threadripper platform. DDR3 quad-channel architecture is used in the AMD G34 platform and in the Intel X79 LGA 2011 platform. AMD processors for the C32 platform and Intel processors for the LGA 1155 platform (e.g., Intel Z68) use dual-channel DDR3 memory instead.\n\nThe architecture can be used only when all four memory modules (or a multiple of four) are identical in capacity and speed, and are placed in quad-channel slots. When two memory modules are installed, the architecture will operate in a dual-channel mode; when three memory modules are installed, the architecture will operate in a triple-channel mode.\n\nAMD Threadripper:\n\nAMD Opteron:\n\nIntel Core:\n\nIntel Xeon:\n\nSupported by Qualcomm Centriq server processors, and Intel Xeon Scalable processors.\n\nSupported by AMD Epyc and Cavium ThunderX2 server processors.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2024044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024044", "title": "A Little Cloud", "text": "A Little Cloud\n\n\"A Little Cloud\" is a short story in \"Dubliners\", by James Joyce.\n\nIn the short story \"A Little Cloud\" by James Joyce, the protagonist, Little Chandler, begins the narrative at his office job in Dublin. He excitedly thinks about his old friend Ignatius Gallaher who he is to meet at a bar upon leaving work. Gallaher has become a moderately successful journalist abroad in England and when Chandler arrives at the bar, he sees that this position has had an influence on his friend. After sharing drinks and cigars, the two men separate and Chandler heads home thinking about his life compared to Gallaher's. This leads him down a largely negative train of thought which climaxes when he returns home. He sees, but cannot console his crying infant and the contempt his wife holds for him is clear enough. This makes Chandler believe that he has, to an extent, wasted his life and he succumbs to sorrow and remorse. This story has often been read to represent aspects of the political struggle between England and Ireland at the time as well.\n\nThe story follows Thomas Chandler, or \"Little Chandler\" as he is known, through a portion of his day. The story drops the reader into Little Chandler's life when he is at work, where he cannot focus because he is preoccupied with the thought of a visit later that day. He anxiously awaits this visit with his old friend Ignatius Gallaher. Gallaher is now a \"brilliant figure\" in the London Press and Little Chandler has not seen him in eight years. As Little Chandler thinks about his old friend and the success that has come to him, he begins to reflect upon his own life. This reflection gives the reader insight to Little Chandler's character. The reader sees Little Chandler as a mere observer of life, a reluctant character. He is timid, because he enjoys poetry yet is too \"shy\" to read it to his wife.\nLittle Chandler likes to think that he himself could have been a writer if only he had put his mind to it. All of the \"different moods and impressions he wished to express in verse\" could still be achieved if he could just express himself. But as much as Little Chandler covers up his true feelings with these thoughts that seem to \"comfort\" him, the reader can see past this.\n\nThese feelings are more clearly exposed to the reader in the bar where Little Chandler actually meets Gallaher. Here, Gallaher tells enchanting stories of his vast traveling. His life is the exact opposite of Little Chandler's and Little Chandler begins to feel that his wife is holding him back from success as a result of Gallaher's glorification of his travels and freedoms. Without his wife, without his little boy, he would be free to prosper. Deep envy sets into Little Chandler. It seems as though the more they drink, and the longer they talk, the more inferior Chandler feels. Still, he tries to hide his envy of Gallaher's life by saying how one day Gallaher will get married and start a family too.\n\nJoyce shifts the scene to Little Chandler's home. We find Little Chandler with his child in his arms. He is sitting at a table looking at a picture of his wife, Annie. He looks into her eyes searching for answers to his now confused state of mind. All he finds is coldness. He sees a pretty girl, but he can see no life in her, and he compares her unfavourably to the rich, exotic women Gallaher says are available to him. He wonders why he married Annie. He then opens a book of Byron's poetry and begins to read until the child begins to cry and Little Chandler finds he cannot comfort him. Little Chandler snaps at his son. The frightened baby cries harder and harder until Annie comes. Through her interaction with Little Chandler and the child, it becomes apparent that Little Chandler is not her main priority.\n\nLittle Chandler feels trapped. All feelings of hope that existed at the beginning of the day are now gone. It is at this moment that Little Chandler reaches a deep moment of recognition. He finally sees the truth that the reader has known all along. His own reluctance is the only thing responsible for his feelings of incompleteness, and he can now only blame himself. Tears come to Little Chandler's eyes, and the story is cut off.\n\nHarold Mosher has examined \"A Little Cloud\" to show that in the rest of the \"Dubliners\", Joyce uses and perhaps abuses both repetition and cliché in order to give the writing a feel of insignificance. He points out that there is a legitimate lack of action in many of the stories, certainly in \"A Little Cloud\", and this \"content of lack\" is mirrored by the language Joyce used. Mosher believes that the talking about nothing, in the way that many Joyce characters do, is actually rather important. He argues that in terms of the language, this style actually portrays an abundance of creativity and quality, rather than a lack of fresh thought implied by the cliché nature of the writing. Thematically he believes that this is important in an ironic way, because though it shows creativity on the part of Joyce, it shows little on the part of Chandler. He thinks and speaks in this way, because he, as he says in the end to Annie, \"I Couldn’t... didn't do anything.\"\n\nThomas O'Grady's has argued that the somewhat ambiguous title \"A Little Cloud\" can be attributed to William Blake's \"Infant Sorrow.\" He points out that Blake was an influential artist for Joyce and that Joyce gave a lecture on Blake once. O'Grady believes that this connection is logical, because it lends structural and thematic significance to the title. This story is Little Chandler's \"song of experience\" according to O'Grady, because the \"infant hope\" carried by his child is overwhelmed with the sorrow and remorse that Chandler feels.\n\nTerence Brown meanwhile has suggested that the title may be an allusion to the Biblical tale of Elijah and the prophets of Baal and more particularly to I Kings 18:44.\n\n"}
{"id": "2024046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024046", "title": "K. C. Keeler", "text": "K. C. Keeler\n\nKurt Charles \"K. C.\" Keeler (born July 26, 1959) is an American football coach and former player. He is currently the Head Football Coach at Sam Houston State University. He was the head football coach at the University of Delaware from 2002 to 2012. Keeler served as the head football coach at Rowan University from 1993 to 2001. His 2003 Delaware Fightin' Blue Hens squad won the NCAA Division I-AA Football Championship, and returned to the Division I Championship game in 2007 and 2010.\nKeeler is currently the 44th winningest coach in the history of college football. In Keeler’s 26 years as a head football coach he has won 233 games. He has taken 15 teams to the NCAA playoffs with 13 of his teams reaching the Final Four and 8 of his teams reaching the National Championship game. K.C. is one of only four FCS Head Coaches to win all three of the National Coach of the Year awards. In 2010 he won both the AFCA and Liberty Mutual Coach of the Year and in 2016 he was awarded the Eddie Robinson National Coach of the Year. \nIn 2019, an ESPN Blue Ribbon Panel selected Keeler as one of the 150 greatest coaches in college football history. \n\nKeeler played high school football at Emmaus High School in Emmaus, Pennsylvania. He was chosen to play in the 1977 Pennsylvania Big 33 All-Star game. He went on to play collegiate football at the University of Delaware, where he was a linebacker from 1978 to 1980 under coach Tubby Raymond. He was a member of the 1979 Division II National Championship squad.\nOnce had 3 consecutive interceptions on 3 consecutive plays at University of Delaware.\n\nIn 1982, Keeler signed a free agent contract with the Philadelphia Eagles of the National Football League. Keeler was resigned by the Eagles in 1983 after being a late cut by the Philadelphia Stars of the USFL. He was one of the last players cut by the Eagles in both 1982 and 1983. Keeler was also a member of the 1984 Jacksonville Bulls of the United States Football League during their training camp.\n\nKeeler began his coaching career as an assistant at Amherst College in Amherst, Massachusetts in 1981 and then at Rowan University in Glassboro, New Jersey in 1986. He became Rowan head coach in the 1993 season, ending his tenure in 2001 with an 88–21–1 (.804) record and seven NCAA Division III playoff appearances. He was, however, 0–5 in NCAA Division III Football Championship Stagg Bowls at Rowan, losing by an average of 42.4 to 18.4.\n\nAfter Raymond retired in 2002, Keeler was named the fourth Delaware head football coach in 62 years. He immediately brought a new offensive philosophy to the team, replacing its famed and historic Winged-T formation with a no-huddle, spread offense. Under Keeler, Delaware won its first national championship since 1979 and its first-ever Division I-AA title (in 2003) with a 15–1 record and a 149–23 total score in the four-game playoff series.\n\nKeeler became as much of a celebrity in Delaware as Raymond. He was named \"Delawarean of the Year\" in 2004 by \"Delaware Today\" magazine and was listed as one of the top college football recruiters in the nation by \"American Football Monthly\" magazine. \"The (Wilmington) News Journal\" reported that Keeler was forced to hire an agent after the 2003 championship to help manage speaking engagements, guest appearances and private functions. His trademark sunglasses (which he also wore during night games) and wireless headgear were emulated with K.C. Keeler bobbleheads sold at games and local Newark, Delaware businesses.\n\nKeeler often attacked criticism that I-AA/FCS programs are of lesser caliber than I-A. \"We're the LSU; we're the Georgia, the Florida of Division I-AA,\" Keeler said in a 2004 interview with \"American Football Monthly\". \"We have every resource. There's some people who have better resources than we do, but in general, the college campus we have is in one of the greatest college towns in America, and the academics ... we led the nation last year in out-of-state applications, more than Michigan or Texas. But that's what this school has become. Everybody wants to come to school here.\"\n\nOn June 19, 2008, Keeler was granted a 10-year contract extension to keep him on as head coach of the Blue Hens through the 2017 season. However, following the 2012 season, in which his team posted a 5−6 record, Keeler was fired.\n\nOn January 23, 2014, Keeler was named the 15th head coach in Sam Houston State program history.\n\nIn 2013 Keeler was out of coaching. During this time K.C. worked as a Content Producer for NFL Films “The Match Up Show” featuring Ron Jaworski, Merril Hoge, and Sal Paolantonio, produced by Greg Cosell. Keeler also worked as a College Football Color Commentator for ESPN that year. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2024054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024054", "title": "List of prime ministers of Togo", "text": "List of prime ministers of Togo\n\nThis is a list of prime ministers of Togo since the formation of the post of Prime Minister in 1960, to the present day.\n\nA total of twelve people have served as Prime Minister of Togo. Additionally, one person, Edem Kodjo, has served on two non-consecutive occasions.\n\nIn the months following the appointment of Joseph Kokou Koffigoh as Prime Minister by the National Conference on 27 August 1991, the soldiers of the Togolese Armed Forces (FAT) loyal to President Gnassingbé Eyadéma repeatedly tried to oust Koffigoh:\n\n\n\n\nThe President of the Republic appoints the Prime Minister. He terminates his functions.\n\nThe Prime Minister is the head of the Government. He directs the action of the Government and coordinates the functions of the other members. He presides over the Committees of Defense. He substitutes for, the case arising, the President of the Republic in the presidency of the Councils provided for in Articles 66 and 72 of this Constitution. He assures the interim of the head of the State in case of incapacity for cause of illness or of absence from the national territory.\n\nBefore his entry into office, the Prime Minister presents before the National Assembly the program of action of his Government.\n\nThe National Assembly accords its confidence to him by a vote with the absolute majority of its members.\n\nThe Prime Minister assures the execution of the laws.\n\nHe may delegate certain of his powers to the ministers.\n\nThe acts of the President of the Republic other than those provided for in Articles 4, 66, 68, 73, 74, 98, 100, 104 and 109 of this Constitution, are countersigned by the Prime Minister or, the case arising, by the Ministers given the charge of their execution.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2024060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024060", "title": "William Lyall", "text": "William Lyall\n\nWilliam Lyall (June 1821 – 20 January 1888) was a Melbourne pastoralist who established a hunting lodge at Tooradin south east of Cranbourne in the 1870s and became a councillor on the shire in the 1880s. Lyall was also a member of the Victorian Legislative Assembly 1859–1861.\n\nLyall was born in Foveran, Aberdeenshire, Scotland, and the family emigrated to Tasmania when he was in his teens. He moved to Melbourne in 1847 and started a business, later joining with two others to form the firm of Mickle, Bakewell & Lyall.\n\nLyall married Annabella Brown (born in Glasgow in 1827) on 29 January 1849, and they lived at Tooradin station until 1854, when he took his family to Britain and started his study of agricultural chemistry. He returned to Australia in 1856 with stud Herefords, Cotswold sheep, hares, pheasants and partridges and gained a reputation as a stock breeder and was successful at shows. He pursued practical and adventurous farming practices, and also held a number of public offices.\n\nLyall died at Harewood on 20 January 1888 and was buried in Cranbourne cemetery. A street in Cranbourne retains his name.\n\nHe held a number of public offices:\n"}
{"id": "2024068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024068", "title": "Kapiolani Park", "text": "Kapiolani Park\n\nQueen Kapiolani Regional Park is the largest and second-oldest public park in Hawaii, located in Honolulu on the east end of Waikiki just beyond Kuhio Beach Park and the Waikiki residential neighborhood. The park, named after Queen Kapiolani, the queen consort of King David Kalākaua, is home to the Waikiki Shell and the Honolulu Zoo.\n\nIn the 1870s, King Kalākaua was asked to find a permanent, dry course for horse racing. Since Waikiki was popular with wealthy racing fans, Kalākaua chose the unoccupied and dry plain at the foot of Diamond Head where the park now stands. \nOn June 11, 1877, the park was dedicated as the first Hawaiian public space. Scotsman Archibald Scott Cleghorn was Vice-president and later president of the Kapiolani Park Association, a group of businessmen who convinced Kalākaua to give them a 30-year lease for $1 per year. A share in the association cost $50, and would allow shareholders to lease property on Waikiki Beach. By the 1880s, many of Hawaii's wealthiest citizens had leased property through the association until the overthrow of the Kingdom of Hawaii, during which most of the properties were returned to the city or condemned. A lease was granted to the Honolulu Cricket Club in 1893. Top cricket players from San Francisco's California Cricket Association played for local teams. \n\nAfter the overthrow, the land was conveyed to the Republic of Hawaii and managed by the Honolulu Park Commission. The legislation provided that the park be set aside permanently as a free public park and recreation ground, forbade the sale or lease of land in the park, and prohibited charging of any entrance fees. Since 1913, the park has been maintained by the City and County of Honolulu's Department of Parks & Recreation.\n\nIn the 1920s, plans to drain the Ala Wai Canal through Kapiolani Park filled the park with mud and trash. It was rarely used until 1952, when the park was renovated and the current boundaries of the park were established.\n\nBesides the Honolulu Zoo and the Waikiki Shell, the park includes tennis and basketball courts, soccer, baseball, lacrosse and rugby fields and an archery range. The park hosts many international lacrosse and rugby tournaments a year. Its bandstand serves as an entertainment venue. It is also a popular course for joggers who utilize its two-mile (3 km) circumference. The park also serves as the site, as both the starting and finish lines, of road races in Honolulu including the Honolulu Marathon.\n\nKapiolani park is also home to Honolulu Cricket Club, the only cricket club in the Hawaiian Islands. Founded in 1893, it is the oldest sporting club in the Pacific according to Guinness World Records.\n\nAs Kapiolani Park continues south it becomes Kapiolani Beach Park, adjacent to Kuhio Beach and Waikiki Beach. The park itself also serves as a natural border between Waikiki and Diamond Head neighborhood.\n"}
{"id": "2024076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024076", "title": "Geography of women's association football", "text": "Geography of women's association football\n\nThe following article gives a list of Women's association football confederations, sub-confederations and associations around the world. \n\nFor international competitions see the article \"International competitions in women's football\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2024077", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024077", "title": "Aquí no hay quien viva", "text": "Aquí no hay quien viva\n\nAquí no hay quien viva (English: \"No One Could Live Here\") is a Spanish television comedy focusing on the inhabitants of the fictional building at the address \"Desengaño 21\", \"Calle Desengaño\" being a street between the Districts of Gran Via and Chueca in Madrid. The series debuted on the Antena 3 network, and was later rerun by the same network as well as cable/satellite channels Neox and Paramount Comedy. Antena 3 Internacional satellite channel broadcasts the series to Latin America. The series debuted in 2003 and became popular thanks to its funny characters, witty script, and capacity to integrate and poke fun at contemporary issues; the program presents a caustic satire of many of the 'types' found in Spanish society.\n\nIn 2006, Antena 3's rival Telecinco acquired a 15% share of Miramón Mendi, the company that produces the series. Miramón's contract with Antena 3 expired in June 2006 and was not renewed, bringing the series to an end, since the actors' contracts bind them to the production company and not to the network. Miramón Mendi then created a new series for Telecinco with most of the same actors and a similar setting, but with brand-new characters and storyline. \"La que se avecina\" débuted 22 April 2007.\n\n\n\"Radiopatio\" (roughly translated into \"gossip yard\") headquarters, as they call their \"gossip agency\", home of three old ladies nicknamed \"las Supernenas\" (The Powerpuff Girls), \"las tres mellizas\" (The Triplets), and \"las brujas de Eastwick\" (The Witches of Eastwick), among others. Their common hobbies are gossip, bingo and shoplifting.\n\n\n\n\n\nThe former home of Lucía, who now has moved to Somalia (see former characters below). It still belongs to her, and her father lived there for a while with his butler and cook while he's having his house refurbished. Natalia and Yago have rented it while the 2-A is undergoing renovations.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe series has the same setting and plots, though the names of most of the characters change. Features Portuguese actors.\n\nThe script is the same but the actors and the building are changed. The title means \"Make yourselves at home\".\nBroadcast started on Studio B on 29 April 2011. Translated \"Moje drage komšije\" (\"My Beloved Neighbors\"). The show replaced Los Hombres de Paco. It was previously aired in its entirety on the B92 network.\nNTV Hayat and ATV - Mreza plus. Broadcast started on 22. February 2010. Broadcast of the show started for a second time on 4 July 2011.\n\nPremiered on Mega Channel on 6 October 2008 and ran for three seasons until 2011.\n\nThe show portrays the same kind of characters, living all together in a building. It was adapted for the Mexican audience and ran between 2005 and 2006 on the Televisa network, achieving huge success. Currently shows on reruns.\n\nThe same setting and presumably the same characters. There are few news updates on this version, and it's only known that the first season will be composed by 26 episodes of 50 minutes each.\n\nThe script is similar but the actors and the building were changed. However, it didn't have as much success as it had in Spain, partially because of the schedule problems that Telefé was having, so production of this version stopped.\n\nThe script, the setting and the plots are the same with some little changes (though the names of most characters were changed). Features Colombian actors. RCN bought the rights to make a local adaptation, which began airing on 25 August 2008 but ended on 27 February 2009 despite the success it was having.\nOn Yle TV1. Translated \"Naapureina Madridissa\" (\"As Neighbours in Madrid\"). The broadcasting of the show started on 25 May 2010.\nLocalized as \"Щурите съседи\" (\"The Crazy Neighbours\"). The Spanish show has been broadcast (with Bulgarian voice-over) multiple times in the country since 2010. The latest broadcasting of the show started on March 15, 2018.\n\nAmerican television network ABC announced that it will produce an American version of the series, that will be named \"I Hate This Place\". Craig Doyle will be responsible for the series' first scripts; Ben Silverman and Sofia Vergara will direct. Filming will start in early 2011.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2024079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024079", "title": "Bihar School of Yoga", "text": "Bihar School of Yoga\n\nThe Bihar School of Yoga is a modern school of Yoga founded by Satyananda Saraswati in Munger, Bihar, India, in 1963. An Institute of Yogic Studies was created in 1994.\n\nThe Bihar School of Yoga was established in 1963 at Munger, in the Indian state of Bihar, by Satyananda Saraswati. By the late 1960s, it had expanded to become an international organisation and by the mid-1970s comprised 54 ashrams in various countries.\n\nAn institute of Yogic studies was created in 1994. \n\nThe school publishes \"Yoga Magazine\". The school teaches traditional yoga in a modern style, for example making use of software apps to distribute knowledge of mantra yoga, hatha yoga, jnana yoga and raja yoga.\n\nThe primary Bihar School of Yoga campus is called Ganga Darshan. It includes residential facilities for guests and students.\n\nThe international organisation included 16 ashrams in Australia by the mid-1970s, of which three were operated by sannyasins who had been initiated. In 2016, the Royal Commission into Institutional Responses to Child Sexual Abuse found that \"The Bihar School of Yoga’s response did not properly prioritise the welfare of survivors over the interests of the ‘brand’ of Satyananda yoga.\"\n\nThe Bihar School of Yoga received the Prime Minister's National Yoga Award 2019 for outstanding contributions to the promotion and development of yoga.\n\n"}
{"id": "2024085", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024085", "title": "List of Doctor Who items", "text": "List of Doctor Who items\n\nThis is a list of notable or recurring items from the BBC television series \"Doctor Who\".\n\nThe Fifth Doctor wears a sprig of celery in his lapel. He claims that he is allergic to certain gases in the praxis range. If those gases were present, the sprig would turn purple, whereupon he would eat it. Actor Peter Davison asked for this explanation to be included in \"The Caves of Androzani\", as it was his final story. It was referred to later in the same story by the Doctor as \"a powerful restorative where I come from...\" The Doctor first affixes the celery in \"Castrovalva\", and replaces it in \"Enlightenment\".\n\nA piece of plastic celery from the series fetched £5,500 () for charity when it was sold at auction in November, 2007.\n\nA component of a TARDIS which allows it to change shape to match its surroundings and remain inconspicuous. The circuit on the Doctor's TARDIS has malfunctioned, leaving it stuck in the shape of a 1960s style British police box. Attempts to repair the circuit have led to unpredictable results, including the TARDIS taking on the form of a pipe-organ (on which the Doctor plays a few notes of J.S. Bach's \"Toccata and Fugue in D minor\"). Since these episodes, the Doctor has said that he has become fond of the police box form, and so has stopped trying to repair it. The TARDISes owned by the Master, the Rani, and the Meddling Monk had fully functioning chameleon circuits. In series one episode \"Boom Town\", the Ninth Doctor explains to Captain Jack Harkness and Mickey Smith about the chameleon circuit and why the TARDIS has been \"permanently\" imaged as a police box. In the episode \"Journey's End\", when Donna Noble has the Doctor's knowledge in her head due to an instantaneous biological metacrisis, she starts to tell the Tenth Doctor how he can fix the chameleon circuit, but does not finish before the knowledge in her head overwhelms her. The Eleventh Doctor explains to Amy Pond (set between \"The Eleventh Hour\" and \"The Beast Below\" in a deleted scene featured on the Series 5 Boxset special \"Meanwhile in the TARDIS\") that the TARDIS takes a 12-dimensional scan of the surrounding area and determines what the best thing to turn itself into is, then it changes into a 1960s police box. Despite the fact that the circuit is broken, the TARDIS can still turn invisible as shown in The Invasion and \"The Impossible Astronaut\", though the former is due to a Cyberman attack, causing the visual stabiliser to malfunction. In the comic, \"Hunters of the Burning Stone\", it is revealed the circuit was purposely broken in the First Doctor's TARDIS by the Eleventh as part of a plan to stop the Tribe of Gum.\n\nThe Eye of Harmony is an artificially created black hole made by Omega, used by the Time Lords as a power source for time travel. The 1996 film \"Doctor Who\", and the episode \"Journey to the Centre of the TARDIS\", would later suggest that there is more than one Eye of Harmony, or the Doctor needed to get one of his own after the Cardiff Rift sealed itself and no more energy could be siphoned off of its scar.\n\nThe Hand of Omega is a device which can collapse a star into a black hole. Omega supposedly used this device in order to harness the energy and negative continuum inside it to enable time travel. It could also be used to destroy entire star systems due to it being able to take out the magnetic fields surrounding atoms. The counteraction of this device occurs in the seventh doctor story \"Remembrance of the Daleks\".\n\nA dream diary, containing notes and sketches by the Tenth Doctor's human persona, John Smith, in \"Human Nature\"/\"The Family of Blood\". The title is handwritten on the journal's first page. Referred to by Smith as \"stories\", it is shown on screen as scribbled words and what appear to be ink sketches, recording what Smith remembers from dreams about his adventures as the Doctor. Joan Redfern retains the \"Journal\" at the end of \"The Family of Blood\", and it is eventually published in 2009 by her granddaughter in \"The End of Time\".\n\nOne two-page spread contains illustrations of all ten Doctors to date, as seen on a flash animation on the BBC web site at the time of \"The Family of Blood\" air date. The drawings seen on screen in \"Human Nature\" are of the First, Fifth, Sixth, Seventh, and Eighth Doctors, the first time each has been depicted in the revived series. The journal also features sketches of the TARDIS interior and exterior, a sonic screwdriver, the Torchwood Institute logo, K-9, Rose Tyler, Autons, clockwork androids, Cybermen, Daleks, the Moxx of Balhoon, gas-masked people from \"The Empty Child\"/\"The Doctor Dances\", and the Slitheen.\n\nThe text includes repeated phrases describing key concepts (such as \"magic box\", referring to the TARDIS), along with many misspellings. One repeated phrase, \"bigger inside than outside\", also appears in Latin as: \"Maius Intra Qua Extra\". The \"Journal\" prop was created by artist Kellyanne Walker and incorporates text provided by writer Paul Cornell.\n\nThe most powerful artifact in the universe, capable of anything the user can imagine. It can restore balance to the universe, or cause utter chaos. Both the Black and White Guardian⁠s sought it. However, the Doctor prevented the Black Guardian from gaining control of it by scattering it across time and space once more\n\nPsychic paper is a blank, white visitor's card that has special properties. When shown to a person, it can usually induce them to see whatever the user expects, wishes, or needs them to see printed on it.\n\nThe Tenth Doctor's severed right hand is kept in a transparent case filled with a preservative liquid. The hand was severed by a Sycorax sword during their invasion of Earth (\"The Christmas Invasion\"). The Doctor regrew the hand due to the healing after-effects of his recent regeneration. Captain Jack Harkness retrieved the hand and stored it at the Torchwood Hub.\n\nIn the \"Torchwood\" episode \"End of Days\", the hand glows when the TARDIS is heard materialising in Cardiff. Alerted by the hand, Jack finds the Doctor in \"Utopia\", and he describes the hand as a \"Doctor detector\"; at the end of the episode, the hand is stolen by the Master along with the Doctor's TARDIS. In \"The Sound of Drums\", the Master reveals he has used the hand to derive the Doctor's biological code, with which he accelerates the Doctor's ageing by one hundred years using his laser screwdriver. Following the events of \"Last of the Time Lords\", the Doctor recovers the hand.\n\nIt is later seen at the end of the episode, \"The Poison Sky\", where it glows as it did in \"End of Days\". In \"The Doctor's Daughter\", this instance of glowing is explained as sensing the appearance of the Doctor's genetic material, in the form of Jenny, in another time period.\n\nAt the end of the episode \"The Stolen Earth\", the Doctor is shot by a Dalek and is forced to regenerate, but in the following episode, \"Journey's End, the Doctor transfers the regeneration energy into the hand, allowing him to heal his wounds but still keep the same form. Donna later touches the hand while it is still infused with regeneration energy, causing the hand to regenerate into a half-human, half-Time Lord copy of the Doctor, with the side effect of giving Donna the knowledge of a Time Lord.\n\nFeatured in \"The Doctor Dances\", the sonic blaster, also known as a \"squareness gun\", is a handheld weapon from the 51st century. The one featured is owned by Captain Jack Harkness. It fires in a peculiar square shape rather than the more traditional round pattern of most science fiction weapons. In \"Silence in the Library\", set in the 51st century, Professor River Song possesses a weapon which acts in exactly the same manner, and Steven Moffat, author of both stories, says it was the same item, left in the TARDIS by Captain Jack and taken by River during her time with the Doctor, a time which is actually in the future of the Doctor's personal timeline.\n\nThe \"superphone\" is an upgraded mobile phone that can make calls across time and space. It even calibrates to the user's home time period, as shown by Adam Mitchell's ability to call his home time on Rose Tyler's phone (\"The Long Game\"), despite their native time periods being about six years apart. In addition, it can send signals in places ordinary phones cannot, such as the sealed Cabinet Rooms at 10 Downing Street (\"World War Three\"). However, its range is not infinite (\"The Impossible Planet\"). The Doctor describes the superphone as being able to \"call anyone, in any time, so long as you know the area code\".\n\nThe superphone first appears in \"The End of the World\", where the Ninth Doctor modifies Rose's Nokia 3200 mobile phone with a special device that goes in place of the battery. In \"Rise of the Cybermen\", the Nokia 3200 is replaced by a Samsung D500, but otherwise seems to function the same. A Samsung D500 is also seen used by Tish Jones in \"The Sound of Drums\". It is also able to link with the Cybus Industries Ear-Pod network. Rose gives the phone to Mickey Smith at the end of \"The Age of Steel\", but replaces it soon after.\n\nWhen Martha Jones becomes an ongoing companion to the Tenth Doctor in \"42\", he gives her phone, the BenQ-Siemens EF81, a similar upgrade. This phone, however, is upgraded by the Doctor's sonic screwdriver, and the feature itself is referred to as \"Universal Roaming\". Martha's phone has the Archangel network logo on its display, the significance of which is revealed in \"The Sound of Drums\". At the end of the episode \"Last of the Time Lords\", Martha gives her phone to the Doctor, so she can contact him if trouble occurs.\n\nThe Doctor uses the same process to upgrade Donna Noble's phone in \"The Doctor's Daughter\", but it is only used once onscreen to contact Martha's similarly upgraded phone. When his allies try contact the Doctor in \"The Stolen Earth\" by means of Martha's superphone now in his possession, the number displayed onscreen is 07700 900461. After the airing of this episode, 2,500 fans tried to dial the number. In \"Journey's End\", Wilfred mentions that he has received a phone call from Donna, presumably by means of her superphone.\n\nThere are at least two superphones available for use in the Eleventh Doctor's TARDIS; Amy Pond's phone and a flip phone sometimes used by the Doctor. Special Agent Delaware used Amy Pond's cell phone to receive a call from the Doctor's flip phone in 1969, before cell networks existed, indicating that both phones must have been upgraded by the Doctor at some point (\"Day of the Moon\"). In \"The Doctor's Wife\", the Doctor uses Amy's phone to keep in touch with Amy and Rory, who are trapped inside the TARDIS. Rory was shown to have one in \"Dinosaurs on a Spaceship\", with his father questioning the oddity of it; Rory commented, \"You get used to it\".\n\nA TARDIS (Time And Relative Dimension In Space) is a spaceship invented by the Time Lords that can travel through space and time. The Doctor travels in a Type 40 TARDIS. A TARDIS can travel to any time and place in the universe, except to events that are Time-Locked, such as the Time War. The TARDIS is bigger on the inside than the outside. The TARDIS' main fuel is Artron energy, a positive time senergy that can almost penetrate time gates. In \"The Impossible Planet\" it is stated that TARDISes are grown, rather than built, and that no other TARDIS could be created, as the last seeds for them were destroyed in the Time War.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2024087", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024087", "title": "Daniel Daio", "text": "Daniel Daio\n\nDaniel Lima dos Santos Daio (born 1947) is a former Prime Minister of São Tomé and Príncipe. The first person freely elected to the position, he held the post from 7 February 1991 to 16 May 1992. He is a member of the Democratic Convergence Party – Reflection Group\n\nWhen the archipelago became independent in 1975, he was member of the Movement for the Liberation of São Tomé and Príncipe (MLSTP) at the time, a one-party state. He had earlier served as Minister of Defence and National Security, but was dismissed in 1982 by President Manuel Pinto da Costa, who appointed himself to the vacancy. When the nation became a multi-party state in 1990, he was secretary general of the new party, the Democratic Convergence Party-Reflection Group (PCD-GR) and Leonel Mário d'Alva returned from exile and became president.\n\nHe won the first multi-party legislative elections in 1991 with 54.4% and got 33 seats in parliament and later became Prime Minister on 7 February. The nation's economy was poor, he led reforms recommended by the IMF (International Monetary Fund) and the World Bank. Prices of goods and necessities were rising, the devaluation of the dobra by 40% led to massive protests and demands for resignation. On 16 May 1992, he left office and his post was succeeded by Norberto Costa Alegre.\n\nIn February 1993, he resigned as secretary general of his party PCD-GR.\n"}
{"id": "2024089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024089", "title": "The Smith's Snackfood Company", "text": "The Smith's Snackfood Company\n\nThe Smith's Snackfood Company is a British-Australian manufacturing company best known for its chips (crisps/potato chips). Founded by Frank Smith and Jim Viney in the United Kingdom in 1920, the company packaged a twist of salt with its crisps in greaseproof paper bags, which were sold around London. After establishing the product in the UK, Smith set up the company in Australia in 1932. It is owned by the American multinational corporation, PepsiCo. The company produces and markets various snack foods. Smith's Snackvend Stand is the branch of the company that operates vending machines.\n\nSmith's Potato Crisps Ltd. was formed by Frank Smith and Jim Viney in the United Kingdom after World War I. The firm started in Cricklewood, London, reputedly in Smith's garage. In 1927, after buying Jim Viney's share of the business, the company expanded into a factory in Brentford, London, which was enlarged in 1930. During the depression, Smith travelled to Australia to expand the business. The company nearly went under during this time and had to be propped back up by a small number of visitors and investors. The company bounced back and expanded its brands, aided with the help of advancing technology. \n\nSmiths was later owned by biscuit company Nabisco, BSN and finally sold to American company PepsiCo in the 1990s. Subsequently, Pepsico withdrew the brand, in favour of popular British brand Walkers, which had been heavily marketed in a campaign using ex-footballer turned television presenter Gary Lineker. Many of the products previously owned by Smith's became labelled as Walkers, although there are still several Smith's branded crisps sold by Walkers, such as Salt 'n' Shake.\n\nCurrent Smiths brands include Smiths Crisps, Frazzles, Chipsticks, Snaps and Savoury Selection (Bacon Fries and Scampi Fries).\n\nAfter establishing the product and name in the UK, Frank Smith moved to Australia to set up the business there. Smith's Crisps were first manufactured in Australia in 1931 with an associate, George Ensor, in leased premises in Sydney's Surry Hills. They were originally made in 20 gas fired cooking pots, then packed by hand and distributed by Nestle confectionery vans.\n\nSmith's Potato Crisps sold its early crisps in three penny packets, 24 to a tin. \"Twist of salt\" sachets were included before pre-salting had been introduced. In March 1932, Smith's Potato Crisps Ltd. went into voluntary liquidation as a result of the Great Depression. However, three months later, George Ensor tendered for the business put up for sale by the liquidators, and on 13 May 1932, Smith's Potato Crisps (Australia) was formed with the UK Smith's Company holding a majority interest over minor shareholders. Growth after World War II was rapid, so a continuous cooker process was introduced to replace the individual cooking pots and in 1960 the production of a one shilling pack for cinemas and a box pack for four shillings was initiated. \n\nIn 1961, Smith's introduced its first flavoured chip - chicken. It was a very popular flavour, influencing most competitors at the time to adopt a Chicken variation. Other flavours released were Original (Pre-Salted) and Salt & Vinegar. Later, in the 1970s, Barbecue was added as a flavour for Smiths crinkle cut chips, and in the 1980s Cheese & Onion was added. These five flavours - Original Salted (blue packet), Salt & Vinegar (magenta packet), Chicken (green packet), Barbecue (orange packet) and Cheese & Onion (yellow packet) have remained the mainstay flavours of the brand since the 1980s. Many other 'limited edition' variants have also been tried over the years.\n\nSeven years later, Associated Products and Distribution Pty Ltd (APD), partnered with PepsiCo beverages Ltd, which had built up a significant snack food company that sold chips and nuts and bought a 41.5% share of Smith's Potato Crisps (Australia)'s parent company. Over the next 20 years, other takeovers and new products (including Twisties and Burger Rings brands) drove growth. PepsiCo took over the company in 1998. In 1990, the APD name was replaced by CCA Snackfoods.\n\nIn 1998, the Smiths Snackfood company was Australia's largest producer of salty snack foods. It was acquired in August of that year, by Frito-Lay the second largest producer of salt snack foods in Australia, which is owned by PepsiCo. To prevent the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) from intervening for unfair trading practices Frito-Lay divested a range of brands, manufacturing facilities, including plants in Western Australia, South Australia, New South Wales and Victoria. The package was named Snack Brands Australia and was sold to Dollar Sweets Holdings. In that package included the brands sold were CC's, Cheezels, Thins and Samboy.\n\nThey were at the height of popularity around the turn of the millennium when each bag included collectable Tazo's, which will make a resurgence in 2020 due to overwhelming public demand.\n\nDespite Australians using the term \"chips\" for crisps, Smith's called their product crisps until as late as 2003. They are now labelled as Smith's Chips. As of 2010–2011, portions contained in \"large\" bags of Smith's Snackfood products have diminished, down from 200g to 175g (approximately equal to the previous 1975 large size of 6½oz).\n\n"}
{"id": "2024095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024095", "title": "Caleigh Peters", "text": "Caleigh Peters\n\nCaleigh Anne Forsyth-Peters (born October 23, 1988) is a studio executive and former singer-songwriter. Born in San Francisco, California, she was raised in Los Angeles and is the daughter of Jon Peters and producer Christine Forsyth-Peters. She is the god-daughter of Barbra Streisand.\n\nShe has sung on numerous film soundtracks, including those for \"Ice Princess\", \"\", and \"Go Figure\". In 2005, she won the \"Ones to Watch\" Award at the Young Hollywood Awards. \nShe attended the Fashion Institute of Design and Merchandising in Los Angeles.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2024123", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024123", "title": "Twisties", "text": "Twisties\n\nTwisties are a type of cheese curl, corn-based snack food product, available mainly in Australia, and other Oceanian countries such as Papua New Guinea, New Caledonia, Vanuatu and Fiji, the Southeast Asian countries Malaysia, Thailand, Singapore and Brunei, and the island of Mauritius in the Indian Ocean. Also available in Italy, but marketed as \"Fonzies\". It was launched in 1950 by the General Foods Corporation. The brand name is owned by The Smith's Snackfood Company. While originally an Australian-owned company, Smith's was acquired in August 1998 by Frito-Lay, the second largest producer of snack foods in Australia, which in turn is owned by American multi-national PepsiCo. In Malaysia, Twisties is a product of Mondelēz International, after having been a part of Danone and later, Kraft Foods previously. In Thailand, the Twisties trademark is owned by Lay's, which like The Smith's Snackfood Company, is owned by PepsiCo.\n\nIn the early 1950s Melbourne businessman Isador Magid imported a rotary head extruder from the United States which initially did not work. After bringing out a technical expert from the USA as well as receiving valuable advice from the CSIRO, Magid started producing Twisties. The product was popular but large scale distribution was difficult so Magid decided to sell the machine and the brand in 1955 to Monty Lea from Darrell Lea for £12,000. Monty and his brother Harris experimented with the machine further using rice and various flavourings. Twisties became popular in Australia - some of its early success is attributed to promotional activity that included advertising the product on Graham Kennedy and Bert Newton's TV show In Melbourne Tonight, making it one of the earliest products advertised on that program. After an unsuccessful attempt to launch Twisties in the UK and competition for shelf space in Australia the Lea brothers agreed to sell the Twisties brand to the Smith's Snackfood Company.\n\nDuring the late 1990s the Twisties brand went through a brand overhaul, coinciding with the acquisition of The Smith's Snackfood Company by Frito-Lay. During the brand overhaul the appearance of the packet was changed to a more modernised look, adopting its current logo. As well as this, the texture of the snack itself was altered, resulting in a smoother finish.\n\nTwisties were originally available only in 'Cheese' flavour, but 'Chicken' and 'Wicked Cheddar Zig-Zag' flavours were later introduced and became a standard part of the product line. There have also been flavours abroad as diverse as 'Toffee', 'Tomato', 'Salmon Teriyaki' and 'Peri Peri', where the local palate suits them the most.\n\nTwisties are eaten as a snack in themselves, or sometimes in a sandwich as a \"Twistie buttie\" or \"Twisties roll\", by serving the packet contents between two slices of buttered bread or in a roll.\n\nIn 1997, a Twisties batch was recalled after reports of consumers finding pieces of fine wire in packs, there were no reports of injuries. The company thought that the wire resulted from machinery malfunction. In 2014, Twisties were one of the products removed from shops in Malaysia due to concerns around contamination from pork products.\n\nIn 2001, Frito-Lay lost a trademark dispute with Aldi Stores, as Aldi's 'Chazoos' cheese twists were not considered to infringe on the registered trademark of Twisties on the basis of packaging, extrusion production or the sound of the product name. Aldi won the appeal as they argued that the phrase 'Cheezy Twists' described their product contents and was not used as their registered trademark.\n\nIn 2009, Twisties packets reduced in size from 50 grams to 45 grams, with the company choosing to reduce portion size rather than increase retail prices due to higher costs for raw materials. Later that year, consumer group Choice flagged Twisties as a product which shrunk but retained the same retail price in a shinier, re-designed packet containing less Twisties.\n\nIn November 2009, several packets of Twisties were the only clues left in a bus that was stolen in Hamilton, New Zealand.\n\nIn 2011, comedian Danny McGinlay hosted an experimental cooking comedy show for the Adelaide Fringe. His show, 'Food Dude: recipes for disaster' featured 'Aussie sushi' which contained beetroot and Twisties.\n\nIn 2014, a trio of hikers lost overnight in Lerderderg State Park were sustained by half a bag of Twisties. After the snack was finished, bushwalker Kirrilee Ord turned the Twisties packet inside out and attempted to use the reflective side to signal rescue helicopters. This effort was unsuccessful, but the group was later found by a search party.\n\nIn 2017, the Fair Work Commission found an electrician was fairly fired for not attending work, as he used a Twisties packet as a Faraday cage to negate the GPS function on his PDA.\n\nChef Adriano Zumbo has created a lime and cheese Twisties zumbaron, which is a cheesy Twisties-flavoured macaron with lime filling.\n\nSince the snack's creation, its base ingredient has been ground corn, rice and agar. Other base ingredients standard in every flavour are vegetable oil, whey protein, salt, and monosodium glutamate (E621) as a flavour enhancer. Ingredients differ depending on the variety of Twisties.\n\nWendyl Nissen's review of packaged food noted that Twisties are a bit better than other super market snacks because the cheese flavouring is sourced from milk solids rather than chemical flavourings.\n\nIn 2011, the Herald Sun highlighted that Twisties contain not only MSG itself, but also HVP (hydrolysed vegetable protein) which is a source of MSG.\n\n\nThe Twisties mixture is made by heating, shearing and pressurising corn, semolina, rice grits and water in a rotary head or random extruder, also known as the 'Twisties Press'. When the liquid mixture is passed through a hole between a spinning plate and a stationary plate, it expands, cools and solidifies to make characteristic knobbly surfaced, squiggly Twisties. A metal lug cuts the mixture into lengths. After forming, the pieces are oven baked before being flavoured with a coating of vegetable oil and a dusting of powdered whey, cheese powder, salt, monosodium glutamate, lactic acid and two types of food colouring. Factory seconds are sometimes fed to farm animals.\n\nTwisties has a large variety of flavours which are sold in Australia, and in the different islands. Of these are the main flavours 'Cheese' and 'Chicken', found in any country that sells them. The islands have a more diverse selection of flavours available normally, however Australia experiences more limited edition flavours. This is due to The Smith's Snackfood Company's aim to \"[re-energise] consumers' love for the Twisties brand\", according to the company's senior marketing director Jenni Dill.\n\nTwisties have not been localised or produced in Mauritius as of yet. The country's supply of Twisties are imported from Malaysia.\n\n\n\nBarbecue flavour was introduced late 70s, discontinued.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nIn 1995, Twisties were noted as one of the most popular snacks in Malaysia, despite at the time, many Malaysians registering dislike for beef and cheese flavours.\n\n\nTwisties were introduced to the United Kingdom in 1994, with package design including the words \"Australia's Favourite Snack\", a crocodile denoting the snack's \"snap and crunch\", as well as a boomerang, and \"flames\" in red (cheese flavour) and purple (hot spice flavour). At the time they were described as \"irregularly-shaped corn sticks\" and similar in appearance to Golden Wonder's Nik-Naks snack.\n\n\nTwisties have been advertised since its last brand overhaul in the late 1990s with the well-known slogan \"Life's pretty straight without...\" In the English-speaking Oceanic countries where Western vernacular isn't as well understood, its slogan is \"Life is fun with...\" Typical television advertisements play on the slogan by showing people in mundane situations being transported to surreal and exciting environments when they eat Twisties. Twisties are claimed to be the \"number one extruded snack brand\" by Smith's.\n\nTwisties, as well as other snack brands owned by The Smith's Snackfood Company, included Oddbodz cards (and later, Space Oddbodz) in specially marked packets for consumers to collect. In late 1996, Oddbodz cards were replaced by Hypa Heads cards, which were available in a 40-card series with a glow-in-the-dark four-image cartoon story requiring a separately purchased Hypervision Viewer. In 2002, Tazo-like (pog-like collectible cardboard discs) Simpsons-themed 'Pickers' discs were included in Twisties packets (as well as other Smith's brands Lay's and Cheetos), which had a velcro backing and could be picked up from the ground with a branded Pickers Bungee Ball. Other branded inclusions were related to Yu-Gi-Oh!, and other popular franchises. This could be attributed to Twisties' success.\n\nAdvertising for the snack has almost completely stopped in the last decade in comparison to its past promotions. Twisties' largest (and most expensive) campaign ever was between 1982-1983 with its \"Twisties jumper\" campaign. Lillian Darrell, a previously unknown actor, played the role of an old woman knitting a Twisties jumper straight from a sheep. The promotion included free knitting patterns and free bags of Twisties. Other promotions were attempted afterwards, but they resulted in little success. Currently, Twisties relies heavily on limited edition flavours to keep hype on a profitable level.\n\nIn 1986, Fred Nile complained about a Twisties television commercial to the Advertising Standards Council. He alleged that the Viking-themed advertisement used occult imagery and goats' heads and that it would disturb children. The commercial received a record number of 680 complaints alleging that it was \"...demonic and harmful to children,\" but it was noted that many were in similar handwriting. It was removed from television, this was attributed to marketing reasons rather than the pressure groups.\n\nIn 1992, Natalie Imbruglia acted in the role of a waitress in a Twisties ad shot at Taronga Zoo. In 2014 while living in London, she said that her mother still posts her packets of Twisties.\n\nIn 1995, Twisties was the sole advertising sponsor for the Ten Network's screening of Melrose Place, stating that the two brands worked together as Melrose Place was focused on fantasy and aspiration, and that Twisties are \"...fantasy in a pack.\". Sponsorship messages were placed at the beginning, middle and end of each episode depicting Melrose Place actors Laura Leighton and Grant Show eating Twisties at home, and Jodie Bissett being served Twisties on a silver platter. Neil Shoebridge criticised the advertisements as being \"...flat and lifeless,\" and relying on gimmickry, but Rochelle Burbury credited them as witty, but that the existing old Twisties \"air volley ball\" advertisement was a detraction.\n\nTwisties has been credited as one of the \"...first packaged good brands...\" to launch on the internet in 1995 with its 'Space Girls' advertising campaign.\n\nA later promotion was credited as the 'Space Girls Straighten Twisties' campaign, with television advertisements screened in February 1997. The commercial featured a teenage boy being abducted by female space aliens, as they were interested in his packet of Twisties. The commercials were launched at the same time as the premier of the alien-themed Dark Skies series. The website included 'eyewitness reports' of the abduction and hid clues in a fictitious newspaper, the 'Twisted Examiner'. Visitors could download a Twisties screensaver, video and Windows 95 theme pack. As part of the campaign, from August to October 1997, consumers could win $10,000 if they located a straight Twistie in their Twisties packet. From the 13 million packs in circulation, all of the five straight Twisties were found.\n\nA 1998 advertisement featured Darren Gilshenan of Full Frontal.\n\nIn 1998, Brooke Satchwell credited chicken flavour Twisties as the key to VCE success, because they alleviated her car sickness while travelling between her Mornington Peninsula home and the set of Neighbours at Nunawading.\n\nIn 2001, Cate Blanchett said that Twisties were what she missed most about Australia, with relatives posting them to her in England.\n\nIn 2011, footballer Billy Brownless claimed that cheese Twisties were beneficial for treating a hangover.\n\nIn 2013, Chrissy Amphlett said that Twisties were something she missed about Australia.\n\nIn 2017, Tom Parker Bowles said that chicken Twisties are one of his favourite foods.\n\nTwisties in New Zealand are drastically different from the Australian variety in terms of both packet design, marketing and the shape of the cheese curl itself. Called 'twisties [sic]', they are manufactured by Bluebird Foods and are only available in cheese flavour. The packet features a penguin mascot about to throw a cheese curl as if it were a ball, and has a completely different slogan as compared to its Australian counterpart: it being \"It's a straight world without Twisties!\" They are less dense than the Australian variety, and their shape is more tubular and curvy without imperfections in the shape (Australian Twisties are more jagged and detailed). In New Zealand the Australian variety is not widely available.\nTwisties are also sold on the Italian market with the name 'Fonzies'. Fonzies are pale yellow in colour, because they do not use the bright orange food colouring that normal Twisties use. Their cheese flavouring is very similar to that used in the Oceanian varieties bearing the 'Twisties' name, lighter and less prone to clump together during consumption, and with a more natural cheese flavour. The only quality that differentiates it from said varieties is its slight egg-like taste upon first bite, though it wears away after continued consumption. It is made through the same rotary head extrusion technique as in all other localisations, though the snacks are much smaller than those found in Australia, sticking more to a general thin shape rather than a selection of both thin and stout snacks. Its smell is much more pungent, as well. Fonzies are available in 'Gli Originali' ('Original') flavour, as well as 'Time Out', 'Choco', 'Hot Passion', 'Bacon', 'Hot Chili' and others.\n\n\nAlthough sold in Italy, Fonzies are produced in Germany by LU Snack Foods GmbH. In the GCC countries, they are also sold with the name 'Fonzies', produced by Kraft Malaysia.\n\n"}
{"id": "2024127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024127", "title": "Celestino Rocha da Costa", "text": "Celestino Rocha da Costa\n\nCelestino Rocha da Costa (25 September 1938 – 23 December 2010) was a prime minister of São Tomé and Príncipe. He held the post from 8 January 1988 to 7 February 1991. He was the last head of a single party Movement for the Liberation of São Tomé and Príncipe (MLSTP) government.\n\nHe became member of the Movement of the Liberation of São Tomé (MLSTP) after independence in 1976 and was a single party at the time. He first worked for the Ministry of Justice. From the beginning of 1986, he was Minister of Education, Labour and Social Affairs.\n\nIn January 1988, a constitutional amendment retained the post of a Prime Minister, on January 8, he became Prime Minister up to 7 February 1991. His government included those that were in exile and later Carlos da Graça as Foreign Minister. In February and March 1988, his army cracked down coup attempts in Gabon.\n\nAfter the introduction of democracy in 1990, in fall 1990, his party became the MLSTP-PSD, he ran for the 1991 legislative elections on 20 January and his party won second place with 30.5% of the votes with 21 out of 55 seats and went into opposition. His post as Prime Minister was succeeded by Daniel Lima dos Santos Daio.\n\nHe died in Lisbon, Portugal in 2010, aged 72.\n"}
{"id": "2024129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024129", "title": "Burger Rings", "text": "Burger Rings\n\nBurger Rings are a type of onion ring–like, corn-based, burger-flavoured Australian snack food distributed by The Smith's Snackfood Company, which, in turn is owned by PepsiCo.\n\nDuring the late 1990s the Burger Rings brand went through a brand overhaul, coinciding with the acquisition of The Smith's Snackfood Company by Lays. During the brand overhaul the appearance of the packet was changed to a more modernised look with bolder and sharper letters in the logo, adopting its past logo.\n\nBurger Rings are made out of a combination of corn and rice. A Smith's Chips representative confirmed Burger Rings are suitable for vegans.\n\nThe ingredients for Burger Rings are as follows: cereals (corn, rice), vegetable oil, maltodextrin, rice bran, salt, sugar, hydrolysed vegetable protein (soy), flavour enhancer (621), food acids (sodium diacetate, citric acid), flavour, mineral salt (potassium chloride), yeast extracts, onion powder, tomato powder. It is also stated on the packaging \"Contains Gluten\", \"Contains Milk or Milk Products\", \"Contains Soy Bean or Soy Bean Products\" in contrast with majority of other packaging that states \"may contain traces of...\" which is confusing for vegans as it implies one or more of the ingredients are derived from Milk.\n\nA Bacon Flavour variant was offered in Australia, briefly.\n\nA memorable \"Star Wars\"-themed advertisement for the product was aired on Australian television in the early 1980s. It featured a faux Luke Skywalker character on Tatooine. After exiting his Landspeeder, he is confronted by a large group of Jawas who ask for his Burger Rings. He begrudgingly shares them only to be left with a single Burger Ring. A Jawa swiftly grabs that last one and the ad ends.\n\nA radio ad campaign in the 1980s joked that Burger Rings were possibly made of rubber tyres concluding with the slogan \"they taste good but!\".\n\nA 1989 ad aired on Australian television depicting a school chemistry experiment resulting in the creation of a single Burger Ring snack. The student who performed the experiment consumes the snack and seems to gain superpowers, developing jagged hair and a crazed look as the now-fluorescent Burger Ring bounces inside the boy's ribcage, made visible by a radiographic effect akin to X-ray imaging. This later turns out to be a daydream of the boy who has fallen asleep in a chemistry class, and continues to mix his chemicals in a sleepy haze.\n\nA 1992 ad featured a man at a bus stop who attempts to steal one of the snacks from another man's packet, only having it growl like a dog and attack his arm, making him run away past a sign that says \"WARNING - BURGER RINGS BITE\". The owner then shares the packet with a woman on his other side.\n\nBurger Rings are available in New Zealand under the same name, except distributed by Bluebird Foods. The New Zealand variant has a different packaging design and a similar slogan: \"Full on burger flavour\". They are available in 30g and 120g bags, and in 108g 6-pack multipacks.\n\n"}
{"id": "2024130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024130", "title": "Teddy (garment)", "text": "Teddy (garment)\n\nA teddy, also called a camiknicker, is a garment which covers the torso and crotch in the one garment. It is a similar style of garment to a one-piece swimsuit or bodysuit, but is typically looser and more sheer. The garment is put on by stepping into the leg holes and pulling the garment up to cover the torso. It may cover the whole of the torso or partially and may also cover the arms. They may open at the crotch for use with a commode, without the need to remove all clothing. As an undergarment, it combines the functions of a camisole and panties, and may be preferred to avoid a visible panty line. It is also found as lingerie.\n\nA one-piece undergarment which combined a camisole and knickers appeared in the 1910s under the name envelope chemise or camiknickers. It was considered an appropriate garment to wear under the shorter dresses which came into fashion in the 1920s. The garment was also worn without an overgarment in the boudoir. \n\nThe style gained popularity during World War II when women who served in military-related duties wore trousers instead of skirts. By the late 1940s, the garment lost its popularity. \n\nA version reappeared as a lingerie garment in the late 1960s, featuring a bra top and attached slip, to wear under short, shift dresses, and replace half slips. Often the bra top was an underwire style, and the entire garment was sized by the bra. It was called both a \"teddy\" or \"braslip\", usually in traditional lingerie colors, and young women especially liked them.\n\nAnother revival began in the 1980s and 1990s, under the name \"teddy\" or \"bodysuit\", when the garment was made of spandex, featuring brief construction combining features of a bra and panties, or leotard, and brighter colors.\n\nMost modern teddies are either designed for visual or sex appeal, or as practical clothing. Common teddy styles today include:\n\nA bareback teddy is one with an open back, often designed with built-in bust support.\n\nA body briefer is a form-fitting garment which smooths and shapes the wearer's figure. They typically come in a variety of control levels, achieved by using different materials or thicknesses things of materials in the body areas they are designed to control. Like sleep teddies, body briefers tend to use simpler materials and styles than teddies designed for visual appeal. Body briefers are also commonly referred to as \"body shapers\" or \"women's shapers\".\n\nA fashion top teddy combines a thong or T-front thong panty, bra and fashion top. Fashion top teddies come in a wide variety of styles, from simple styles with plain materials to very fancy styles with beads, crystals or sequins. Fashion top teddies can be worn as fancy undergarments or as an outer garment without a top over them.\n\nA sleep teddy is a loose-fitting teddy designed as sleepwear. A sleep teddy is a practical garment which tends to use simpler materials and styles.\n\nA teddiette is a teddy with detachable garters.\n\nA traditional teddy is a loose-fitting teddy designed for visual or sex appeal and to show off the wearer's figure. Traditional teddies often use sheer or partially sheer material.\n"}
{"id": "2024132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024132", "title": "SuperDish", "text": "SuperDish\n\nThe SuperDish is a satellite dish that was deployed by Dish Network in November 2003 as a means to provide more channels for subscribing customers. Its elliptical reflector is 36\" x 20\" - more than 50% larger than the round 20\" Dish 500. The SuperDish receives signals from three orbiting satellites, as opposed to two signals with a DISH 500. The three satellites are at 110°W, 119°W, and either 105°W or 121°W depending on customer requirements. The 105-degree orbital slot provided local channels via K band from SES Americom's AMC-15 satellite. The other, 121-degree orbital slot provided local channels and international packages via K band from EchoStar 9, which is also known as Galaxy 23/EchoStar 9 due to a joint partnership with Intelsat.\n\nThese two satellite services, and their older Fixed Service Satellite technology, were provided to add additional capacity that lets DISH Network satisfy the Federal Communications Commission's \"must-carry\" requirements for local channels, and make room for HDTV. In addition, several dozen international services have been added to DISH Network's channel line-up. The SuperDish receives standard Direct broadcast satellite (DBS) services in circular polarization at 12.7 GHz from Echostar's existing 110°W and 119°W slots. The 105°W and 121°W slots are received in linear polarization at 11.7 GHz at a much lower power. As a result, SuperDISH-compatible receivers must be able to receive circularly-polarized and linearly-polarized signals at two different frequency ranges from up to four satellites.\n\nSuperDISH enabled Dish Network customers to receive High-definition television (HDTV), international, and/or local channels, on one dish system. Local channels in most major cities were available as digital broadcasts over DISH Network using SuperDish but HDTV has since been moved to the 61.5 and 129.\n\nIn 2007 most of the services at the 121-degree location were moved to the Anik F3 satellite at the 118.75-degree location. Existing SuperDish subscribers were retrofitted with a \"repoint kit\" to receive most of the same services via the Anik F3 satellite, also in the medium-power FSS band.\n\nBusiness services were provided to several commercial customers, including many Wachovia Bank branches. These Wachovia branches, now owned by Wells Fargo, can still be seen with a SuperDish installed through which they receive the \"Wells Fargo TV\" service.\n\n"}
{"id": "2024141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024141", "title": "Nobby's", "text": "Nobby's\n\nNobby's is Australia's largest nuts brand, manufactured by The Smith's Snackfood Company, the Australian snacks division of PepsiCo. Nobby's products are typically sold in supermarkets as well as pubs. Their pack reports that they are \"packed in Australia with less than 10% Australian ingredients\".\n\nThe brand is sold with a memorable double entendre tagline, \"Nibble Nobby's nuts\". It began to be advertised on Australian television in the 1980s, using a combination of real-life and animated scenes.\n\nThe Nobby's brand was introduced to the UK and Ireland in 2005, launching a distinctive range of nuts and crisps products targeting male consumers. The UK range is positioned as \"Fun, blokey and all about flavour, Nobby's is a range of Peanuts and Cashews that delivers straightforward satisfaction with a distinctive sense of humour.\" British advertising featured musician Noddy Holder, of band Slade, frustrated that pub-goers misheard the brand name for himself. The advert was only shown after the 9pm watershedthe \"adult\" part of the programming daydue to its risque humour. \n\nIn 2016, advertisers Lash Creative were hired by PepsiCo Australia to improve the social media presence of Nobby's.\n\nIn 2011, a man in Townsville, Queensland was arrested for stealing a $3.95 bag of Nobby's Nuts by hiding them in his pants. Police spent over $1,000 attempting to track down the perpetrator.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2024143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024143", "title": "Rifat Shaykhutdinov", "text": "Rifat Shaykhutdinov\n\nRifat Gabdulkhakovich Shaykhutdinov (; born December 23, 1963) is a member of the State Duma of Russia. He is Chairman of the State Duma's Committee on Relations with CIS States and Compatriots, and Deputy Chairman of the State Duma's Committee on Power, Transport and Telecommunications. He is an ethnic Tatar. From 1992 to 1997 he was director of the Center for Experts in the Ministry of State Property in the Northwest Region. Shaykhutdinov is a deputy for the Urals Federal District. He is also an author of a novel \"Political hunting\" that contains his works in relation to the political analysis of the social and political situation in Russia as well as worldwide. Shaykhutdinov is a father of two children, Anna (born in 1989) and Rod (born in 1992).\n"}
{"id": "2024147", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024147", "title": "Merewether High School", "text": "Merewether High School\n\nMerewether High School (abbreviated as MHS) is a government-funded co-educational academically selective secondary day school, located in the suburb of Broadmeadow in the city of , in the Lower Hunter Region of New South Wales, Australia. \n\nThe school enrolled approximately 1,080 students in 2018, from Year 7 to Year 12, of whom one percent identified as Indigenous Australians and 22 percent were from a language background other than English. The school is operated by the NSW Department of Education; the principal is Christine Rippon.\n\nThe suburb of Merewether is named after Edward Christopher Merewether, who began his working life in Australia as aide-de-camp to three Governors of New South Wales between 1842 and 1861. He was appointed Superintendent of the AACo in Newcastle in 1861 and became a significant landowner and local benefactor. The school's \"E.C. Merewether Award for Creative Endeavour\" and the shield, which adorns the school's front foyer, were inaugurated in honour of Merewether.\n\nFrom 1952 until 1976, the site, enclosed by School Street, Awaba Street, Chatham Street, Pokolbin Street and Melville Road, was occupied by Newcastle Technical High School. The school included an industrial arts block (now the covered outdoor learning area (COLA)), K Block (the library), two bike sheds (since removed) and a canteen (since pulled down and a new canteen built in its place). L block was added in the 1960s.\n\nThe school merged with Cooks Hill Girls High School in 1976 to form a comprehensive co-educational high school, which drew students from the suburbs of Carrington, Wickham, Hamilton and Merewether. A building programme commenced just before the merger, with new blocks (A–D) being constructed, and blocks F–G being added later.. The final principals of both schools are memorialised in the naming of the Bensley Hall and the Foley Library on the present campus.\n\nSince 1989 enrolment is determined by an academic selection process. The school has a planned capacity of 1,080 students (180 from each year from 7–12). It first reached its enrolment capacity across all years in 2005.\n\nMany buildings sustained severe damage in the 1989 earthquake, but were repaired thereafter. Another more recent event that affected the school was the floods of June 2007, which toppled trees and required the replacement of carpets in some blocks' lower floors (e.g. K block, The Library).\n\nThe college follows the mandated statewide curriculum developed by the New South Wales Board of Studies. Students in Years 7 to 10 undertake studies in mathematics, English, science, history, geography, music, film studies, visual arts, dance, Technological & Applied Studies (metalwork, woodwork and Home Economics), languages, and Personal Development, Health and Physical Education.\n\nYear 11 and 12 students work towards the Higher School Certificate, in which they achieve some of the best results in the region. Students may opt for units developed by the Open High School as correspondence courses.\n\nAs an academically selective high school, Merewether High School takes enrolments through a statewide process. In the final year of primary school, students are assessed and enrolled by the school on the basis of their achievement across the curriculum and on the Selective Schools Placement Test. After the beginning of Year 7, students are placed into the selective classes by the college on a student-by-student basis.\n\nMerewether offers many extracurricular clubs and activities to its students, many of them musical ensembles, including: string ensemble, orchestra, jazz band, concert band and guitar ensemble facilitated by the honourable Brian Saxby \"BMus\". Other activities include a chess club and the robotics club.\n\nMerewether High School has participated in Odyssey of the Mind since at least 1992 and have had many successes in this pursuit, including a team of year 9 students winning the Ranatra Fusca Creativity Award in 2008.\n\nThere are also various sporting teams including: cricket, soccer, basketball (The Weathers), rugby union (Merewether Moos), rugby league, Australian rules football, hockey, netball, volleyball, rowing, aerobics team, softball and baseball.\n\nThe school SRC (Student Representative Council) consists of six students from each year, elected by their peers. In Year 7 one student from each class is elected; in the remaining grades, six students from each year are elected, regardless of class. The SRC nomination process begins in term 2, so members terms are across two years.\n\nThe Prefect Body is also elected by the students, of which four are chosen to be the captains of the school.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2024148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024148", "title": "Travemünde", "text": "Travemünde\n\nTravemünde () is a borough of Lübeck, Germany, located at the mouth of the river Trave in Lübeck Bay. It began life as a fortress built by Henry the Lion, Duke of Saxony, in the 12th century to guard the mouth of the Trave, and the Danes subsequently strengthened it. It became a town in 1317 and in 1329 passed into the possession of the free city of Lübeck, to which it has since belonged. Its fortifications were demolished in 1807.\n\nTravemünde has been a seaside resort since 1802, and is Germany's largest ferry port on the Baltic Sea with connections to Sweden, Finland, Russia, Latvia and Estonia. The lighthouse is the oldest on the German Baltic coast, dating from 1539. Another attraction of Travemünde is the Flying P-Liner Passat, a museum ship anchored in the mouth of the Trave.\n\nThe annual Travemünder Woche is a traditional sailing race week in Northern Europe.\nThe annual Sand festival in Travemünde is known as the Sand World.\n\nThe 19th century seaside resort was evoked by Thomas Mann in Buddenbrooks. In Part II/5-12 the vacation of Antonie Buddenbrook is told, while in Part X/3 one summer of little Hanno. Travemünde is depicted by Mann as a place of freedom, happiness and - in the case of Antonie - love, in contrast with the problems of everyday life.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2024163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024163", "title": "Chris Broderick", "text": "Chris Broderick\n\nChristopher Alan \"Chris\" Broderick (born March 6, 1970) is an American musician, best known as the former guitarist of the American heavy metal band Megadeth. He is also formerly the lead guitarist and keyboardist for Jag Panzer, appearing on four of Jag Panzer's albums \"The Age of Mastery\", \"Thane to the Throne\" (a concept album about Shakespeare's \"Macbeth\"), \"Mechanized Warfare\" and \"Casting the Stones\" before moving on to Megadeth, replacing Glen Drover. Before joining Megadeth and while still in Jag Panzer, he was also a touring guitarist for Nevermore between 2001 and 2003 and then again between 2006 and 2007. He is now the lead guitarist for Act of Defiance, which he formed with fellow ex-Megadeth bandmate, Shawn Drover.\n\nBroderick started playing guitar when he was 11 years old. His playing styles range from metal, classical, neoclassical, and jazz. Broderick has been said to have practiced 14 hours a day during his summers as a teen. He practiced electric guitar, classical guitar, piano, and violin under a strict daily routine. He has said that at that time it seemed more like a \"chore\" than for entertainment. He was a standout player in the Denver music scene from 1988 on in bands Grey Haven, Industrial Eden (guitarist/lead vocalist) and Killing Time.\n\nHe also has a degree in classical guitar music performance at the University of Denver's Lamont School of Music. He is also interested in flamenco guitar and rates Paco de Lucia as his favourite guitarist.\n\nIn 1997, guitarist Joey Tafolla left Jag Panzer for the second time, citing a lack of interest in playing heavy metal. For the band, this was a huge problem. Tafolla's guitar work was complex and technical, and as far as they knew few guitarists could comprehend it. This is when Chris was brought into the fold of Jag Panzer and stayed with them for almost a decade. He played on four of the band's albums. 1998's \"The Age of Mastery\", 2000's \"Thane to the Throne\" (a concept album about William Shakespeare's play \"Macbeth\"), 2001's \"Mechanized Warfare\", 2003's compilation album \"Decade of the Nail Spiked Bat\" and 2004's \"Casting the Stones\".\n\nDuring the time period of 2000 – 2003 and some of 2004 Chris was taking part in the live shows of heavy metal band Nevermore. After the release of the album, \"This Godless Endeavor\", he began once again to tour with Nevermore until joining Megadeth in 2008.\n\nIn late 2007, rumors had been circulating that Megadeth guitarist Glen Drover had left the band. This was proved to be true after statements released from both Glen and Megadeth frontman Dave Mustaine. The night after the statements were released, Megadeth drummer Shawn Drover brought up Chris as a possible replacement. Shawn then showed Dave a video of Chris playing both classical and electric guitar. Dave was immediately won over and soon managed to get in contact with Chris. Two weeks later, Broderick was officially declared the new guitarist for Megadeth. He made his live debut with the band on February 4, 2008 in Finland and toured with them on Gigantour 2008 and also recorded guitar parts for their 12th album Endgame through their 14th album, Super Collider. Due to extensive touring with Megadeth he was no longer be able to collaborate with Jag Panzer and Nevermore. Dave Mustaine said that when he partnered up with Broderick, he said that it reminded him of when \"Ozzy Osbourne met Randy Rhoads\". On March 8, 2009, Dave commented that he thought Chris was the greatest guitarist Megadeth has ever had. In the then-current line up of the band, he was the youngest member in Megadeth. In Megadeth Broderick had to stop playing his trademark seven string guitar and adopt a six string guitar. Broderick said that the bandleader \"Dave [Mustaine] felt a seven-string guitar wasn't an original thrash metal instrument. Therefore he felt it would be better if I used six strings\". He said in an interview with Total Guitar he would stay with Megadeth as long as they were happy to have him.\n\nOn November 25, 2014 Chris Broderick posted a message on his website saying he was parting ways with Megadeth.\n\n\"Due to artistic and musical differences, it is with great reluctance that I announce my departure from Megadeth to pursue my own musical direction. I want all of you to know how much I appreciate the amount that you the fans have accepted and respected me as a member of Megadeth for the last seven years, but it is time for me to move on. I wish Dave and everyone in Megadeth all the best. I am working on a few things of my own and hope that when they come out, you will all dig it.\"\n\nAfter leaving Megadeth, Chris Broderick and former Megadeth drummer Shawn Drover formed Act of Defiance along with ex-Scar the Martyr frontman Henry Derek Bonner and former Shadows Fall guitarist Matt Bachand.\n\nChris was endorsed by Ibanez guitars and DiMarzio Pickups (A Pair of D Activator 7's neck and bridge models) along with ENGL amplifiers and Ernie Ball Slinky strings. Before using Ibanez Guitars, he used Schecter Guitars with Seymour Duncan pickups. In the past he has also used Bare Knuckle Pickups, mainly the coldsweat models.\n\nDespite an ENGL endorsement, he used Marshall Amps (the JVM 410 and EL34 100/100 power amp) during his time in Megadeth at Mustaine's demand. During his time in Megadeth he switched (along with Mustaine) to using a Fractal Axe-FX II rig modeler which he continues to use.\n\nIn January 2011, Chris Broderick left Ibanez and is now endorsing Jackson Guitars. He is playing a custom shop archtop soloist produced to his personal demands, featuring 24 frets, 12\" radius, custom DiMarzio pickups (tentatively called the Fundamental) and is available in a 6 or 7 string configuration. Chris uses Dunlop Tortex T3 picks in 1.35mm. Chris uses a pick holder that keeps the pick in place on his thumb, which he has manufactured and sells on his website.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2024180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024180", "title": "Lake Thirteen", "text": "Lake Thirteen\n\nLake Thirteen is a private lake located in Surrey Township, Clare County, Michigan. The lake spans about , and reaches a maximum depth of about .\n\nThe lake serves recreational purposes such as watersports and fishing. In most fishing handbooks, the primary fish is listed as bullhead, but largemouth bass and northern pike can also be caught in the lake. In 2002 walleye were planted in the lake, although there have been no reports of consistency in catching them.\n\nLake Thirteen is an artificial lake, dug on the creekbed of Runyan Creek, which flows into the lake and is the primary water supply. The water depth varies, anywhere from 2 feet (0.6 m) in some areas, to a maximum of 30 feet (10 m). Some people believe the lake actually reached 40 feet (12 m) in depth, but muck and sand have filled in the holes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2024185", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024185", "title": "Louis Diémer", "text": "Louis Diémer\n\nLouis Joseph Diémer (14 February 1843 – 21 December 1919) was a French pianist and composer. He was the founder of the Société des Instruments Anciens in the 1890s, and also gave recitals on the harpsichord. His output as a composer was extensive, including a piano concerto and a quantity of salon pieces.\n\nDiémer was born and died in Paris. He studied at the Paris Conservatoire, where his teachers included Ambroise Thomas for composition, Antoine Marmontel for piano, and François Benoist for organ. From the age of twelve, he won several first prizes (\"Premiers Prix\") at the Conservatoire, in piano, harmony and accompaniment, counterpoint and fugue, and solfège, and a \"second prix\" in organ.\n\nHe quickly built a reputation as a virtuoso and toured with, among others, the violinists Delphin Alard amd Pablo de Sarasate. \n\nIn 1888, Diémer succeeded Marmontel as professor of piano at the Paris Conservatory. He taught, among others, Robert Casadesus, Alfredo Casella, Marcel Ciampi, Alfred Cortot, José Cubiles, Lazare Lévy, Robert Lortat, Yves Nat, and Édouard Risler. He was also instrumental in promoting the use of historical instruments, giving a series of harpsichord performances as part of the 1889 Universal Exhibition and contributing to the founding of the Société des Instruments Anciens.\n\nSeveral composers dedicated compositions to Diémer. They included César Franck's \"Symphonic Variations\", Jules Massenet's only piano concerto, Camille Saint-Saëns's 5th Piano Concerto, and Édouard Lalo's Piano Concerto in F minor. Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky's 3rd Piano Concerto was intended to be dedicated to him.\n\nDiémer was also among the earliest pianists to record for the gramophone. His recordings are said to show the best aspects of the 19th-century French piano school: clarity, point, and control in rapid, detaché passages and limpid pianissimo scales. They clearly attest to Diémer's title in the French press as \"the king of the scale and the trill. They also give evidence to comments made by his pupil Lazare Lévy, who himself would become an influence on the French musical scene. Lévy wrote: \"The astonishing precision of [Diémer's] playing, his legendary trills, the sobriety of his style, made him the excellent pianist we all admired\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2024192", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024192", "title": "Tesnusocaris", "text": "Tesnusocaris\n\nTesnusocaris goldichi is an extinct species of remipedian crustacean that lived in the Pennsylvanian period, the one of the two representatives of the extinct remipedian Order Enantiopoda. Its fossil is from the Lower Pennsylvanian (Paleozoic, Carboniferous) Tesnus formation, Texas. The other known enantiopod remipedian is \"Cryptocaris hootchi\" of the Mazon Creek fauna.\n"}
{"id": "2024193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024193", "title": "Godwinia (disambiguation)", "text": "Godwinia (disambiguation)\n\nGodwinia is a common name for two different groupings of organisms:\n"}
{"id": "2024212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024212", "title": "Dinosaur in a Haystack", "text": "Dinosaur in a Haystack\n\nDinosaur in a Haystack is a 1995 book by the paleontologist Stephen Jay Gould. It collects essays culled from Gould's monthly column \"The View of Life\" published in \"Natural History\" magazine, which Gould contributed for 27 years. The book deals with themes familiar to Gould's writing: evolution, science biography, probabilities, and strange oddities found in nature. \n\nHis essay \"Poe's Greatest Hit\" analyzes the controversial conchology textbook \"The Conchologist's First Book\" (1839), edited by Edgar Allan Poe. Poe's volume on natural history sold out within two months, and was his only book republished during his lifetime. Essay \"Dinomania\" is a review of Michael Crichton's novel \"Jurassic Park\" and Steven Spielberg's blockbuster film of the same name.\n\nThe book received favorable reviews in \"Publishers Weekly\" and \"The New York Times\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2024218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024218", "title": "Alexis Weissenberg", "text": "Alexis Weissenberg\n\nAlexis Sigismund Weissenberg () (26 July 19298 January 2012) was a Bulgarian-born French pianist.\n\nBorn into a Jewish family in Sofia, Bulgaria, Weissenberg began taking piano lessons at the age of three from Pancho Vladigerov, a Bulgarian composer. He gave his first public performance at the age of eight.\n\nIn 1941, he and his mother tried to escape from German-occupied Bulgaria for Turkey, but were caught and imprisoned in a makeshift concentration camp in Bulgaria for three months. A German guard – who had enjoyed hearing Alexis play Schubert on the accordion – hurriedly took him and his mother to the train station, throwing the accordion to him through the window and told them, \"Good luck\". They safely arrived in Istanbul a day later.\n\nIn 1945, they emigrated to Palestine, where Weissenberg studied under Leo Kestenberg and performed Beethoven with the Israel Philharmonic under the direction of Leonard Bernstein. In 1946, Weissenberg went to the Juilliard School to study with Olga Samaroff. He also studied with Artur Schnabel and Wanda Landowska.\n\nIn 1947, Weissenberg made his New York debut with the New York Philharmonic Orchestra and George Szell in Rachmaninoff's Piano Concerto No. 3 and with Philadelphia Orchestra and Eugene Ormandy, with which Weissenberg won the Leventritt Competition. Between 1957 and 1965, he took an extended sabbatical for the purpose of studying and teaching. Weissenberg resumed his career in 1966 with a recital in Paris. Later that year he played Tchaikovsky's Piano Concerto No. 1 in Berlin conducted by Herbert von Karajan, who praised him as \"one of the best pianists of our time\".\n\nWeissenberg gave piano master classes all over the world. With his Piano Master Class in Engelberg (Switzerland), he had as students many pianists of the new generation: Kirill Gerstein, Simon Mulligan, Mehmet Okonsar , Nazzareno Carusi, Andrey Ponochevny, Loris Karpell, and Roberto Carnevale among them. He composed piano music and a musical, \"Nostalgie\", which was premiered at the State Theatre of Darmstadt on 17 October 1992.\n\nWeissenberg died on 8 January 2012 at the age of 82 in Lugano, Switzerland after suffering from Parkinson's disease. He was survived by three children, David, Cristina and Maria.\n\nBryce Morrison, in \"Gramophone\", described his early 1970s recording of the Liszt Sonata in B minor as one of the most exciting and also lyrical renditions of the work. His readings of Schumann, Rachmaninoff, and many works by Frédéric Chopin (including his complete works for piano and orchestra, Piano Sonatas No. 2 & 3, nocturnes, and waltzes) are also very well known.\n\nAmong his other notable interpretations were those of Johannes Brahms's Piano Concerto No. 1, with Carlo Maria Giulini and Riccardo Muti, (\"Les Introuvables d'Alexis Weissenberg\", 2004), Rachmaninoff's Piano Concerto No. 2 with Herbert von Karajan and the Berlin Philharmonic, as well as his Piano Concerto No. 3 with Georges Prêtre and the Chicago Symphony Orchestra, and Seiji Ozawa with the Boston Symphony Orchestra (also with Leonard Bernstein and the Orchestre National de France).\n\nHis 1965 film recording of Stravinsky's \"Three Movements from Petrushka\" (directed by Åke Falck) was also highly praised. When Karajan watched the movie, he immediately invited Weissenberg to participate in a filmed performance of the Tchaikovsky First Concerto, replacing Sviatoslav Richter.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2024224", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024224", "title": "Taxman (film)", "text": "Taxman (film)\n\nTaxman is a 1999 film directed by Avi Nesher and written by Nesher and Roger Berger.\n\nA tax investigator chasing a tax evader stumbles upon a series of bloody murders and gets wrapped up in an investigation with a rookie cop despite his boss' orders to stay out of the way.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2024225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024225", "title": "Hip-hop dance", "text": "Hip-hop dance\n\nHip-hop dance refers to street dance styles primarily performed to hip-hop music or that have evolved as part of hip-hop culture. It includes a wide range of styles primarily breaking which was created in the 1970s and made popular by dance crews in the United States. The television show \"Soul Train\" and the 1980s films \"Breakin'\", \"Beat Street\", and \"Wild Style\" showcased these crews and dance styles in their early stages; therefore, giving hip-hop mainstream exposure. The dance industry responded with a commercial, studio-based version of hip-hop—sometimes called \"new style\"—and a hip-hop influenced style of jazz dance called \"jazz-funk\". Classically trained dancers developed these studio styles in order to create choreography from the hip-hop dances that were performed on the street. Because of this development, hip-hop dance is practiced in both dance studios and outdoor spaces.\n\nThe commercialization of hip-hop dance continued into the 1990s and 2000s with the production of several television shows and movies such as \"The Grind\", \"Planet B-Boy\", \"Rize\", \"StreetDance 3D\", \"America's Best Dance Crew\", \"Saigon Electric\", the \"Step Up\" film series, and \"The LXD\", a web series. Though the dance is established in entertainment, including mild representation in theater, it maintains a strong presence in urban neighborhoods which has led to the creation of street dance derivatives Memphis jookin, turfing, jerkin', and krump.\n\n1980s films, television shows, and the Internet have contributed to introducing hip-hop dance outside the United States. Since being exposed, educational opportunities and dance competitions have helped maintain its presence worldwide. Europe hosts several international hip-hop dance competitions such as the UK B-Boy Championships, Juste Debout, and EuroBattle. Australia hosts a team-based competition called World Supremacy Battlegrounds and Japan hosts a two-on-two competition called World Dance Colosseum.\n\nWhat distinguishes hip-hop from other forms of dance is that it is often \"freestyle\" (improvisational) in nature and hip-hop dance crews often engage in freestyle dance competitions—colloquially referred to as \"battles\". Crews, freestyling, and battles are identifiers of this style. Hip-hop dance can be a form of entertainment or a hobby. It can also be a way to stay active in competitive dance and a way to make a living by dancing professionally.\n\nHip-hop dance is a broad category that includes a variety of styles. The older dance styles that were created in the 1970s include uprock, breaking, and the funk styles. Breaking was created in The Bronx, New York in the early 1970s. In its earliest form, it began as elaborations on James Brown's \"Good Foot\" dance which debuted in 1972. Breaking at this period was not primarily floor-oriented as seen today; it started out as toprock which dancers perform while standing up. An influence on toprock was uprock which was created in Brooklyn, New York. Uprock looks similar to toprock, but it is more aggressive and looks like a fight. Uprock is also performed with partners, but in toprock—and in breaking in general—each person takes turns dancing. In 1973, DJ Kool Herc invented the break beat. A break beat is a rhythmic, musical interlude of a song that has been looped over and over again to extend that instrumental solo. Kool Herc did this to provide a means for dancers who attended his parties to demonstrate their skills. B-boy and b-girl stands for \"break-boy\" and \"break-girl\"; b-boys and b-girls dance to the break of a record. Further influenced by martial arts and gymnastics, breaking went from being a purely upright dance style—toprock only—to becoming more floor-oriented.\n\nAt the same time that breaking was developing in New York, other styles were being created in California. The \"funk styles\" refer to several street dance styles created in California in the 1970s such as roboting, bopping, hitting, locking, bustin', popping, boogaloo, strutting, sac-ing, and dime-stopping. Out of all of these dances, Boogaloo is one of the oldest. It started out as a 1960s fad dance and was the subject of several songs released during that time such as \"Do the Boogaloo\" and \"My Baby Likes to Boogaloo\". From being a fad, it developed into a street dance style called Boogaloo in Oakland, CA, as well as a separate music genre called Latin boogaloo. The most popular and widely practiced of the funk styles are Locking and popping. The television show \"Soul Train\" played a large role in giving these styles commercial exposure. Both The Lockers and The Electric Boogaloos—dance crews responsible for the spread of locking and popping—performed on this show.\n\nIt is historically inaccurate to say that the funk styles were always considered hip-hop. In an interview with \"Racked\", Moncell Durden, assistant dance professor at the University of Southern California, is quoted as saying \"Hip-hop dance involves two dances: breaking and social dances. That's it. Nothing else is hip-hop.\" The funk styles were adopted into hip-hop in large part due to the media. The media identified these styles as \"breakdance\" which caused confusion about their origin. They were created on the west coast independent from breaking and were originally danced to funk music, rather than hip-hop music.\n\nAs breaking, locking, and popping gained popularity in the 1980s, hip-hop social dancing (party dancing) started to develop. Novelty and fad dances such as the Roger Rabbit, the Cabbage Patch, and the Worm appeared in the 1980s followed by the Humpty dance and the Running Man in the 1990s. The music of the day was the driving force in the development of these dances. For example, the 1980s rap group Gucci Crew II had a song called \"The Cabbage Patch\" that the dance of the same name was based on. 2000s era social dances include the Cha Cha Slide, the Cat Daddy, and the Dougie. The previously mentioned dances are a sample of the many that have appeared since hip-hop developed into a distinct dance style. Like hip-hop music, hip-hop social dancing continues to change as new songs are released and new dances are created to accompany them.\n\nBreaking was created in the South Bronx, New York City during the early 1970s. It is the first hip-hop dance style. At the time of its creation, it was the only hip-hop dance style because Afrika Bambaataa classified it as one of the five pillars of hip-hop culture along with MCing (rapping), DJing (turntablism), graffiti writing (bombing), and knowledge. Though African Americans created breaking, Puerto Ricans maintained its growth and development when it was considered a fad in the late 1970s. In a 2001 interview Richard \"Crazy Legs\" Colón, the president of Rock Steady Crew, commented on how Puerto Ricans contributed to breaking: \"I think the difference is when the brothas first started doing [it] and it was at its infancy they weren't doing acrobatic moves. That didn't come into play until more Puerto Ricans got involved in the mid 70s. We then took the dance, evolved it and kept it alive. In '79 I was getting dissed. I would go into a dance and I would get dissed by a lot of brothas who would ask 'Why y'all still doing that dance? That's played out'. By 79, there were very few African American brothas that was doing this... We always maintained the flava. It was like a changing of the guard and all we did was add more flava to something that already existed.\" Breaking includes four foundational dances: toprock, footwork-oriented steps performed while standing up; downrock, footwork performed with both hands and feet on the floor; freezes, stylish poses done on your hands; and power moves, complex and impressive acrobatic moves. Transitions from toprock to downrock are called \"drops.\"\n\nTraditionally, breakers dance within a \"cypher\" or an \"Apache Line\". A cypher is a circular shaped dance space formed by spectators that breakers use to perform or battle in. Cyphers work well for one-on-one b-boy or b-girl (break-boy/break-girl) battles; however, Apache Lines are more appropriate when the battle is between two crews—teams of street dancers. In contrast to the circular shape of a cypher, competing crews face each other in an Apache Line, challenge each other, and execute their \"burns\" (a move intended to humiliate the opponent, i.e. crotch grabbing).\n\nLocking, originally called Campbellocking, was created in 1969 in Los Angeles, California by Don \"Campbellock\" Campbell and popularized by his crew The Lockers. In addition to Campbell, the original members of The Lockers were Fred \"Mr. Penguin\" Berry, Leo \"Fluky Luke\" Williamson, Adolfo \"Shabba-Doo\" Quiñones, Bill \"Slim the Robot\" Williams, Greg \"Campbellock Jr\" Pope, and Toni Basil, who also served as the group's manager. At the 2009 World Hip Hop Dance Championships, Basil became the first female recipient of the Living Legend Award in honor of her role in giving locking commercial exposure.\n\nLocking looks similar to popping, and the two are frequently confused by the casual observer. In locking, dancers hold their positions longer. The \"lock\" is the primary move used in locking. It is \"similar to a freeze or a sudden pause.\" A locker's dancing is characterized by frequently \"locking\" in place and after a brief freeze moving again. According to \"Dance Spirit\" magazine, a dancer cannot perform both locking and popping simultaneously; thus, it is incorrect to call locking \"pop-locking\". While both styles are from Los Angeles, locking and popping are two distinct funk styles with their own histories, their own set of dance moves, their own pioneers, and their own competition categories. Locking is more playful and character-driven, whereas popping is more illusory. In popping, dancers push the boundaries of what they can do with their bodies. Locking has specific dance moves that distinguish it from popping and other funk styles. In the 2006 book \"Total Chaos\", hip-hop historian Jorge \"Popmaster Fabel\" Pabon lists some of these moves which include \"the lock, points, skeeter [rabbits], scooby doos, stop 'n go, which-away, and the fancies.\" In addition, Lockers commonly use a distinctive dress style characterized by colorful clothing with stripes and suspenders.\n\nPopping was derived from the earlier Boogaloo street dance movement taking place in Oakland, California during the late 1960s, the Boogaloo dance form incorporated techniques of soulful footwork steps, arm movements, stop-motion animation, the robot, & posing hard - which contracted muscles during robotic poses to the music of Funk. Throughout the 1960s and 1970s - Boogaloo groups in Oakland, CA such as One Plus One, the Black Resurgents and the Black Messengers would help popularize the dance. Early Boogaloo movements would inspire groups throughout the San Francisco Bay Area and eventually spread to Fresno, California in the 1970s and popularized by Samuel \"Boogaloo Sam\" Solomon and his crew the Electric Boogaloos. It is based on the technique of quickly contracting and relaxing muscles to cause a jerk in a dancer's body, referred to as a \"pop\" or a \"hit\". It is also known as Posing Hard from the Boogaloo tradition, this technique was innovated by the Boogaloo group, the Black Messengers from Oakland. When performed correctly, each \"hit\" is synchronized to the rhythm and beats of the music. Popping is also used as an umbrella term to refer to a wide range of closely related illusionary dance styles such as strobing, liquid, animation, twisto-flex, and waving. Dancers often integrate these styles with standard popping to create a more varied performance. In all of these subgenres it appears to the spectator that the body is popping. The difference between each subgenre is how exaggerated the popping is. In liquid, the body movements look like water. The popping is so smooth that the movements do not look like popping at all; they look fluid. The opposite of this is strobing (also called ticking) in which the movements are staccato and jerky.\n\nPopping as an umbrella term also includes gliding. Gliding is a lower body dance performed with little to no movements in the chest or arms. In gliding a dancer appears as if they are drifting across the floor on ice. Opposite from gliding is tutting, an upper body dance that uses the arms, hands, and wrists to form right angles and create geometric box-like shapes. Tutting can be done primarily with the fingers rather than the arms. This method is called finger tutting. In both variations the movements are intricate, linear, and form 90° or 45° angles. In practice, tutting looks like the characters on the art of ancient Egypt, hence the name—a reference to King Tut.\n\nWhile popping as an umbrella term is widely used by hip-hop dancers and in competitive hip-hop dancing, Timothy \"Popin' Pete\" Solomon of the Electric Boogaloos disagrees with the use of the word \"popping\" in this way. Many of these related styles (animation, liquid, tutting, etc.) can not be traced to one person or group. Solomon states \"There are people who wave and there are people who tut. They're not popping. I say this to give the people who created other styles their just dues and their props.\"\n\nDecades after breaking, locking, and popping became established, four new dance styles appeared. Three of them come from California and one comes from Tennessee. Memphis Jookin' was created in the 1980s in Memphis, Tennessee. It is an evolution of an older Memphis line dance called The Gangsta' Walk. According to \"Dance\" magazine, jookin is characterized by dancers \"gliding footwork... popping and waving... [and] using the tips of their sneakers to balance on pointe.\" Gliding on tiptoes is fundamental to this dance. While watching a jookin' battle in Jackson, Tennessee, dance critic Alastair Macaulay observed that \"the most evidently sensational feature of jookin is the extensive use of what a ballet observer is bound to call pointwork: the men, in sneakers, go onto tiptoe... many of the men not only rose onto point but also hopped, turned, ran and balanced on point.\" Jookers have traditionally practiced their moves at the Crystal Palace skating rink in Memphis, which is akin to how milongueros practice their moves in public spaces in Buenos Aires.\n\nTurfing, an acronym for Taking Up Room on the Floor, was created in 2002 by Jeriel Bey in Oakland, California. Turfing is a fusion of miming and gliding that places heavy emphasis on storytelling (through movement) and illusion. Other than San Francisco Bay Area pride, turfing avoided becoming a fad due to local turf dance competitions and local youth programs that promote turfing as a form of physical activity.\n\nThe dance style Jerkin' was popularized in 2009 by the New Boyz's rap song \"You're a Jerk\". This song went viral via their MySpace page before they had a manager or were signed to a record label. After hearing about the song, Los Angeles radio station Power 106 hired the New Boyz to perform at local high schools. These shows led to \"You're a Jerk\" entering the radio's playlist. Later the same year, rap duo Audio Push released the song and video \"Teach Me How to Jerk\" which showcased the different dance moves within jerkin' including the \"Reject\"—the Running Man done in reverse. Dancers who perform jerkin' typically wear bright colors, skinny jeans, Mohawks, and Vans sneakers. This trend echos locking dancers in the 1970s who traditionally wore suspenders and black and white striped socks. Of the dance, journalist Jeff Weiss from \"LA Weekly\" stated \"For a youth culture weaned on the cult of individualism, jerkin' is its apotheosis.\" Similar to breaking, locking, and popping, jerkin's popularity spread through dance crews. For example, The Rej3ctz (crew) created both the Cat Daddy and the Reject dance moves.\n\nAlthough jookin', turfing, and jerkin' generated regional support and media attention, none have reached the same zenith as krumping. Ceasare \"Tight Eyez\" Willis and Jo'Artis \"Big Mijo\" Ratti created krumping in the early 2000s in South Central, Los Angeles. It was only practiced in Los Angeles until it gained mainstream exposure after being featured in several music videos and showcased in the krumping documentary \"Rize\". \"Rize\" was screened at several film festivals before it was commercially released in the summer of 2005. Clowning, the less aggressive predecessor to krumping, was created in 1992 by Thomas \"Tommy the Clown\" Johnson. Johnson and his dancers would paint their faces and perform clowning for children at birthday parties or for the general public at other functions as a form of entertainment. In contrast, krumping focuses on highly energetic battles and movements which Johnson describes as intense, fast-paced, and sharp. Of the dance, journalist Taisha Paggett from \"Dance\" magazine stated \"If movement were words, [krumping] would be a poetry slam.\" Compared to breaking and the funk styles, jookin', turfing, jerkin', and krumping are relatively new. The music driving the dances and the cultural similarities between these street dance styles, the funk styles, and breaking have brought them together under the same subculture of hip-hop.\n\nThe dance industry responded to hip-hop dance by creating a commercial version of it. This urban choreography or studio hip-hop, sometimes called \"new style\", is the kind of hip-hop dance seen in rap, R&B, and pop music videos and concerts. From the point of view of someone deeply immersed in hip-hop culture, anything that looks like hip-hop dance that did not come from the streets and is not improvisational in nature is not a true hip-hop dance form. In an interview with \"Dance\" magazine, choreographer and hip-hop dance teacher Emilio \"Buddha Stretch\" Austin, Jr. described his point-of-view:\n\nStage performance can suppress improvisation which defined hip-hop dance early in its development. Furthermore, meshing different dance styles together dissolves their structures and identities. In an interview with \"The Bronx Journal\", choreographer and artistic director Safi Thomas expressed a similar qualm as Austin concerning hip-hop instruction within the studio:\n\nThe term \"new style\" was created by dancers outside the United States. According to Moncell Durden, adjunct professor at Drexel University and director of the film \"History and Concept of Hip-Hop Dance\", the 1992 dance documentary \"Wreckin' Shop From Brooklyn\" was very influential to hip-hop dancers in France and Japan. These dancers wanted to move like the New York hip-hop dancers who were profiled in the documentary. They called the social dancing (party dancing) they saw \"new style\" which was short for \"New York Style\".\n\nIn the context of the commercial dance industry, hip hop (or new style hip-hop for dancers in France and Japan) is choreographed urban party dancing with studio technique added to it. From a technical aspect, it is characterized as hard-hitting involving flexibility and isolations—moving a specific body part independently from others.\n\nA second important event in the development of hip-hop was the start of hip-hop dance instruction. Buddha Stretch was a pioneer in this field. He started teaching formal hip-hop dance classes in 1989 at Broadway Dance Center in New York City where he continues to teach today. Around the same time, hip-hop party dancing started to appear in music videos and on television—this was another important point in the development and commercialization of hip-hop. An early example of this is when Janet Jackson performed the Running Man in her 1989 music video for the song \"Rhythm Nation\" which was choreographed by street dancer Anthony Thomas. The dance was so popular during this time it was also performed by 1990s rappers MC Hammer and Vanilla Ice in their choreographed routines. Michael Jackson also used hip-hop in his 1992 music video \"Remember The Time\" which was choreographed by a then 21-year-old Fatima Robinson. At the time, Robinson was a street dancer with no formal training and \"Remember the Time\" was her first music video job. According to MTV.com, \"Dances have always been a part of hip-hop culture — from the running man to the Soulja Boy dance...\" and this era was the start of commercial hip-hop choreography as it looks today: dance routines are not specific to one genre (strictly popping, strictly locking, or strictly breaking) but rather an amalgamation of urban party dancing with studio technique added to it.\n\nAnother style the dance industry created in response to hip-hop was \"jazz-funk\". Jazz-funk (also called street-jazz) is a hybrid of hip-hop and jazz dance. This style was shown in its early form on a sketch comedy series called \"In Living Color\". The resident dance troupe, The Fly Girls, opened and closed every show with a hip-hop and jazz performance choreographed by Rosie Perez. R&B singer Beyoncé uses this style. Korean dance crew Prepix also uses this style. They have choreographed for K-pop singers Jay Park and G.NA as well as for K-pop boy bands 2PM and B2ST. Although jazz-funk borrows from hip-hop dance, it is not considered a style of hip-hop because the foundational movements are jazz. In hip-hop—even in lyrical hip-hop—there are no pirouettes or arabesques and dancers do not perform on relevé (on the balls of the feet). However, these methods are used in jazz-funk and in jazz dance in general.\n\nOther developments in the dance industry occurred in response to the growing popularity of hip-hop. On the traveling convention circuit there were tap, ballet, and jazz dance conventions, but there were none specifically for hip-hop. The same void existed in dancewear. There was dancewear for tap, ballet, and jazz dancers but none for hip-hop dancers. Monsters of Hip Hop and Nappytabs dancewear were formed to answer to both needs. Nappytabs is the first line of hip-hop dancewear. Because their clothing is made for hip-hop dancers, they do not sell leotards, unitards, tights, or leg warmers. Their line consists of tank tops, shorts, t-shirts, sweat pants, harem pants, and hoodies. Monsters of Hip Hop (MOHH) was founded in 2003 in Baltimore, Maryland by Andy Funk, Becky Funk, and Angie Servant. The convention is dedicated exclusively to hip-hop instruction. Fatima Robinson, Stefan \"Mr. Wiggles\" Clemente, and Timothy \"Popin' Pete\" Solomon have taught classes at MOHH in the past. Every year, the convention brings together its top student dancers for a professionally choreographed showcase in Los Angeles called \"Monsters of Hip Hop: The Show\".\n\nMOHH may have been the first hip-hop dance convention, but it is not the only one that exists. Urban Dance Camp (UDC) is a six-week-long German-based dance convention held every year in Lörrach, a small town on the border of France and Switzerland. In a report on the event by a local paper, Bettina Kraft, the manager of UDC, estimated that 85% of the participants were from outside Germany. In 2009 Kraft created Urban Dance Showcase, a parallel event to UDC reserved only for performances by professional choreographers, dance crews, and UDC teachers. Dancers such as Shaun Evaristo, Les Twins, I.aM.mE, b-boy Lilou, and b-boy Hong 10 have performed at the showcase in the past.\n\nAside from dancewear and conventions, developments in agency representation occurred as well. Although limited, representation for individual dancers had existed since the 1980s at the beginning of the music video era due to the pioneering work of talent agent Julie McDonald. However, the UK-based dance agencies ProDance and Superbad Talent were created to exclusively represent street dancers.\n\nThe entertainment industry has been largely responsible for introducing hip-hop dance to mainstream audiences around the world. The first hip-hop films \"Wild Style\", \"Beat Street\", and \"Breakin'\" were made in the 1980s. When \"Wild Style\" opened in Japan, Rock Steady Crew performed breaking in Tokyo's Harajuku shopping district to promote the film. \"Wild Style\" was the first movie centered around hip-hop culture; however, \"Flashdance\" was the first commercially released film to feature breaking. In 1984, \"Beat Street\" was released in West Germany and screened at the Cannes Film Festival which helped to introduce breaking, graffiti writing, and turntablism to this part of Europe. \"Breakin\"' and \"\" brought the funk styles to the cinema. Breaking, locking, popping, and waacking were performed in these films. At this time in the 1980s, the United States was not the only country producing hip-hop films. In 1985, Yuen Woo-ping directed a hip-hop themed romantic comedy in Hong Kong called \"Mismatched Couples\" starring Donnie Yen. Another hip-hop film, \"Electro Rock\", was released the same year in the United Kingdom. This film featured a then 14-year-old Hanifa \"Bubbles\" McQueen Hudson, the UK's first b-girl.\n\nSeveral hip-hop dance films were produced after the millennium. \"The Freshest Kids: A History of the B-Boy\", \"Neukölln Unlimited\", \"B-Girl\", \"Bouncing Cats\", \"Planet B-Boy\", and \"\" all showcase breaking. Films such as \"Honey\", \"Save the Last Dance\", \"You Got Served\", the \"Step Up\" film series, \"StreetDance 3D\", \"Hype Nation\", \"Saigon Electric\", \"Berlin Dance Battle 3D\", and \"\" showcase all forms of hip-hop dance, especially new style hip-hop. \"Rize\", \"The Heart of Krump\", and \"Shake City 101\" are documentaries about krumping. All of these movies and documentaries are examples of films where the plot and theme surround hip-hop dance and how it affects the characters' lives. \"Bouncing Cats\" is the story of b-boy Abraham \"Abramz\" Tekya who uses b-boying to empower youth in Uganda. In 2010, the film won \"Outstanding Achievement in Documentary Filmmaking\" at Newport Beach Film Festival and \"Best Documentary Feature\" at Urbanworld Film Festival. \"Saigon Electric\" was Vietnam's first hip-hop film. It was written, produced, and directed by Vietnamese-American filmmaker Stephane Gauger. The film is about two female dancers (a ribbon dancer and a hip-hop dancer) and how their respective romances, the threat of their community center being torn down, and the stress of an upcoming dance battle affects their friendship. The film was choreographed by Viet Max and Ricky Cole. In 2012, it won a Golden Kite Prize (the Vietnamese equivalent of The Oscars/BAFTAs) for \"Best Film\" and \"Best Actress\".\n\nBefore reaching movie audiences, hip-hop dance was already being broadcast on television. \"Soul Train\" was a syndicated, music variety show that featured social dancing and performances by African-American soul, funk, and R&B singers. The show was broadcast in South Korea via the US Armed Forces Korea Network. Before officially becoming a crew, The Lockers made several appearances on this show. After becoming a crew, The Electric Boogaloos also appeared on the show. \"Soul Train\" premiered in 1970. During its 36 year run, the resident freestyle dancers were referred to as the Soul Train Gang. Auditions were held in 1971 when the show moved from Chicago, Illinois to Los Angeles, California. Dancers who wanted to get on \"Soul Train\" after this time had to rely on word-of-mouth recommendations from dancers who were already employed by the show. A regular feature during the broadcast was the Soul Train Line. To participate, the dancers formed two lines of equal length facing each other with a large space in between them. Each dancer in line would take their turn dancing down the middle.\n\nOther music variety shows on television at this time were \"American Bandstand\", \"Solid Gold\", and \"Top of the Pops\". Unlike \"Soul Train\" which focused on soul and funk, these shows promoted Top 40 music and pop acts. \"Solid Gold\" employed a permanent dance troupe called the Solid Gold Dancers who performed choreographed routines to musical performances. Lucinda Dickey, an actress and dancer who played the lead role in the \"Breakin' \" films, appeared on the show during the 1982–1983 season as a Solid Gold dancer. In 1983, street dancers Marc \"Mr. Freeze\" Lemberger from Rock Steady Crew, Timothy \"Popin' Pete\" Solomon and Dane \"Robot Dane\" Parker from the Electric Boogaloos, and locking dancers Alpha \"Omega\" Anderson and Lewis \"Deputy\" Green also appeared on Solid Gold during a performance to the song \"What a Feeling\" from the movie \"Flashdance\". In 1982 during a performance in London on \"Top of the Pops\", street dancer Jeffrey Daniel performed popping and the \"backslide\" during the song \"A Night to Remember\". This was the first time popping was shown on British television, thus spreading its popularity in the United Kingdom. A year later, Michael Jackson also performed the backslide during a performance of \"Billie Jean\" on the TV special. He called it the moonwalk and his performance spread its popularity all over the world to much larger extent than Daniel's performance did. It was Jeffrey Daniel who taught Michael Jackson how to do the backslide/moonwalk.\nA few hip-hop dance shows appeared on television in the 1990s such as 1991's \"The Party Machine with Nia Peeples\" and 1992's \"The Grind\". Several hip-hop dance shows premiered in the 2000s including (but not limited to) \"Dance Fever\", \"Dance 360\", \"The Wade Robson Project\", \"MTV Dance Crew\", \"America's Best Dance Crew\", \"Dance on Sunset\", and \"Shake It Up\". In 2006, MTV France documented the creation of a dance crew for an original series called \"MTV Dance Crew\". Viewers were able to see the crew from auditions to the selection of the final eight who were subsequently named Original Soul. Original Soul was coached by three professional choreographers who mentored them and helped refine their dancing. Over the course of 32 episodes they routinely participated in professional dance battles including the popping battle at Juste Debout, the Seven 2 Smoke battle at The Notorious IBE, and b-boy battles at Chelles Battle Pro. B-boy Lilou, b-boy crew Phase T, and promoter Bruce Ykanji (the founder of Juste Debout) all made appearances in the show.\n\nThe founders of Hip Hop International, Howard and Karen Schwartz, created the reality hip-hop dance competition \"America's Best Dance Crew\" (ABDC) in 2008. On the show, different crews competed in dance challenges against each other every week. ABDC contributed to the exposure of several crews such as Jabbawockeez, Quest, Beat Freaks, and Poreotics. These crews now have official websites, work with musical artists, and perform at live events. The JabbaWockeeZ had a show in Las Vegas, Nevada called \"MÜS.I.C.\" at the Monte Carlo Resort and Casino. \"MÜS.I.C.\" was the first hip-hop dance stage show on the Las Vegas Strip. In 2012, the Jabbawockeez performed the show during a five-month residency at the Jupiters Hotel and Casino in Gold Coast, Queensland, Australia. Both Poreotics and Hokuto \"Hok\" Konishi from Quest were nominated for a 2011 MTV Video Music Award for Best Choreography. Poreotics was nominated with singer Bruno Mars for his video \"The Lazy Song\". Hok was nominated for LMFAO's video \"Party Rock Anthem\"; the rest of Quest crew appeared in the video as featured dancers.\n\nIn contrast to ABDC, individual dancers from all backgrounds compete on the reality dance competition \"So You Think You Can Dance\" (SYTYCD) and World of Dance (WOD). It has a similar premise to the \"Idol\" series of singing competitions with initial auditions leading to the selection of a winner over the course of several episodes. In 2008, poppers Robert \"Mr. Fantastic\" Muraine and Phillip \"Pacman\" Chbeeb auditioned during season four of the US SYTYCD series. Neither made it to the final \"Top 20\", but the judges were so impressed with their dancing that both were invited back to participate in a popping battle against each other on the show's live finale. According to Muraine, this was the first popping battle that was nationally televised. After the battle, hip-hop dancer Joshua Allen was declared the winner of season four of the competition. The same year Mona-Jeanette Berntsen, a hip-hop dancer from Norway, won the first season of \"So You Think You Can Dance Scandinavia\". In 2017, hip hop duo Les Twins won the inaugural season of World of Dance. Hip hop dance crew The Lab won the following year.\n\nHip-hop dance has also been popular among viewers of the \"Got Talent\" series. French hip-hop dancer Salah won the first season of \"Incroyable Talent\" in 2006. French b-boy Junior won the second season in 2007. In 2008, hip-hop dancer George Sampson won \"Britain's Got Talent\", Danish popping and roboting duo Robot Boys won \"Talent 2008\" (), and hip-hop dance crew Quick won the Norwegian version of the show. After George Sampson, dance crew Diversity won the next season of \"Britain's Got Talent\" in 2009. The same year, Brazilian crew D-Efeitos won \"Qual é o Seu Talento?\" (\"What's Your Talent?\"). In 2010, Justice Crew won \"Australia's Got Talent\". After signing a recording contract with Sony Music Australia, Justice Crew shot a video for their single \"Dance with Me\" featuring rapper Flo Rida and \"America's Best Dance Crew\" alumni Beat Freaks. In 2015, nine years after he won \"Incroyable Talent\", hip-hop dancer Salah won the fourth season of \"Arabs Got Talent\".\n\nThough hip-hop dancing is established on film and on television, it has not gained the same level of exposure in theater. This may be due to the fact that the dance is performed more in film and in television than it is in a theatrical setting. B-boy and popper Stefan \"Mr. Wiggles\" Clemente and hip-hop historian Jorge \"Popmaster Fabel\" Pabon were involved in hip-hop theater at its inception. Their dance company, GhettOriginal, produced the first hip-hop stage shows: 1991's off Broadway musical \"So! What Happens Now?\" and 1995's \"Jam on the Groove\". Both shows were performed by the Rock Steady Crew, Magnificent Force, and the Rhythm Technicians. Aside from the pioneers in New York City was Rennie Harris' Puremovement hip-hop theater company. Harris founded Puremovement in 1992 in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. One of Puremovement's theater shows \"Rome & Jewels\" won two Black Theater Alliance Awards and three Bessie Awards. In 2012, Harris and his company toured Egypt, Israel, and the Palestinian territories as part of Dance Motion USA, a program sponsored by the US State Department to showcase American dance to other countries and promote cultural exchange.\n\nGerman b-boy pioneer Niels \"Storm\" Robitzky has his performance roots in hip-hop theater. In 1991, Robitzky—who went by the name \"Swipe\"—left Germany with his crew Battle Squad for New York City to look for b-boy legends they could study under. When he got to New York, he met b-boy Gabriel \"Kwikstep\" Dionisio who personally mentored him and introduced him to New York techniques. While in New York, he also learned about the funk styles from Clemente. Clemente and Dionisio knew each other since Dionisio was an original member of both GhettOriginal and the Rhythm Technicians. A year later in 1992, Robitzky performed with GhettOriginal at the Kennedy Center in Washington D.C. and at the Lincoln Center in New York City. It was Dionisio who gave Robitzky a new name, \"Storm\". In 2000, he wrote a book called \"Von Swipe zu Storm: Breakdance in Deutschland\" (\"From Swipe to Storm: Breakdance in Germany\").\n\nDancers in the United Kingdom have had success in hip-hop theater. In 2006, hip-hop dance company Boy Blue Entertainment won a Laurence Olivier Award for their show \"Pied Piper\". In 2008, \"Into the Hoods\" became the first hip-hop theater show to perform in London's West End. It eventually went on to become the West End's longest running dance show ever.\n\nYAK Films is a three-man team that films urban dance around the world. It was founded in Oakland, California by Yoram Savion and Kash Grimes. Their first videos were of the Turf Feinz dance crew performing turfing—a regional hip-hop dance style from Oakland. After generating significant views on YouTube, they started YAK (Yoram And Kash) Films and added music producer Ben \"B'zwax\" Tarquin to the team. From shooting videos only in the United States, they were able to easily transition to covering dance events in Europe due to Savion's dual French citizenship. In 2009, they filmed Battle of the Year's first one-on-one b-boy competition, and in 2010 they filmed dance battles at Juste Debout, a French street dance competition. Some of their more popular videos have been featured in \"Oakland Local\" and the \"Huffington Post\".\n\nJuba Films was founded in Germany by Julien Bam and Gong Bao. Rather than film freestyle content, Juba (\"Ju\"lien and \"Ba\"o) produces short films with a storyline. For their short b-boy film \"More Than Bread\", they won first place at the 7th International Online Dance Festival in 2011. In 2012, the \"Daily Mail\" wrote an article about Juba's short film \"With a Piece of Chalk\" after the video went viral and started trending on Mashable. Both Juba Films and YAK Films appeared at The Notorious IBE's New Dance Media Conference discussing the relationship between street dance and visual arts. Although Juba Films has won an award and YAK Films has booked high-profile events, they are not the only film production teams distributing hip-hop dance videos on the Internet. House of Crews, Strife TV, Pacific Rim Video Press, ProDance TV, Battle Fest Extreme, Urban Dance Show, Ocke Films, World of Dance Network, and Canal Street TV also produce hundreds of high-quality hip-hop dance content.\n\n\"The Legion of Extraordinary Dancers\" (\"The LXD\") was a good-versus-evil themed web series about a group of dancers who discover they have super powers through their dance moves. Each character specializes in one dance style. Consequently, a wide range of styles are displayed including krumping, tutting, breaking, locking, boogaloo, and popping. The majority of the dancing shown in the series is hip-hop; however, other styles were also performed including jazz, tap, and ballet. AdvertisingAge.com gave the series a favorable review stating \"...each episode of 'LXD' packs a wealth of narrative sophistication into its eight or nine minutes. Combine this with the theater-worthy production values and a cast that exerts itself to an ungodly extent, and the end result is – pun time! – extraordinary.\" \"The LXD\" premiered July 7, 2010 on Hulu. In 2012, Jon Chu, the writer, director, and producer of \"The LXD\", launched a dance channel on YouTube called DS2DIO (pronounced D-Studio). Through this channel, Chu also made \"The LXD\" available on YouTube. Before then, it could only be viewed on Hulu. September 2019 Independent Artist E-Styles Dropped a Music Video The Poetic Flow via Youtube featuring one of most popular YouTube dancers today Non Stop Marquese Scott and new up in coming dancer Alian 2 Wavy. The video focus on Hip Hop Dance and Culture. \n\n\n\nIn 2004, Safi Thomas founded the Hip-Hop Dance Conservatory (HHDC) in New York City. Thomas' goal was to provide a comprehensive education to hip-hop dancers that was comparable to what ballet, modern, and jazz dancers experience at their respective institutions. HHDC provides a formal curriculum with dance classes (breaking, freestyle, locking, etc.) and academic classes (dance theory, physiology, kinesiology, etc.) to people who want to pursue hip-hop dance as a career. It is the only educational institution in the United States that is exclusively dedicated to hip-hop dance instruction. HHDC does not grant degrees. It is a non-profit organization and repertory company that grants certifications to dancers that complete the three-year program.\n\nThree years later in 2007, the University of East London's Center for Performing Arts Development (CPAD) started intake for the only bachelor's degree program in the world specializing in hip-hop, urban, and global dance forms. The CPAD's program also lasts three years, but it is not exclusive to hip-hop. Students also study African dance, kathak, Bollywood, and capoeira.\n\n\nCitations\nBibliography\n\n \n\n"}
{"id": "2024231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024231", "title": "Geoff Page", "text": "Geoff Page\n\nGeoffrey Donald Page (born 7 July 1940) is an Australian poet, translator, teacher and jazz enthusiast.\n\nHe has published 22 collections of poetry, as well as prose and verse novels. Poetry and jazz are his driving interests, and he has also written a biography of the jazz musician Bernie McGann. He organises poetry readings and jazz events in Canberra.\n\nGeoff Page was born in Grafton, New South Wales, and studied at the University of New England. Sir Earle Page, who was briefly Prime Minister of Australia, was his grandfather.\n\nPage has held residencies at numerous academic, military and political institutions, including Edith Cowan University, Curtin University, the Australian Defence Force Academy, and the University of Wollongong. From 1974 to 2001 Page was head of the English department at Narrabundah College, a secondary college in Canberra. He retired from teaching in 2001.\n\nHe has travelled widely, talking on Australian poetry in Switzerland, Britain, Italy, Singapore, China, the United States and New Zealand. His poetic style ranges from lyrical to satirical, from serious to humorous – and often addresses his concerns about contemporary society and politics. Judith Beveridge writes that \"Page is a humanely satirical poet. He lets us view our condition with a fusion of the comic and the tragic.\"\n\nPage is the poetry reviewer for ABC Radio's \"The Book Show\" and, for a decade before that, its \"Books and Writing\" program.\n\nPage curates the Poetry at the Gods and Jazz at the Gods series at the Gods Cafe in Canberra.\n\nAustralian poet John Tranter in his 1983 review of \"The Younger Australian Poets\" (edited by Robert Gray and Geoffrey Lehmann)\nwrote of Page:\nHe is not a self-promoter, and his modest output has been inadequately represented in recent anthologies, as the editors of this one quite properly point out. His poetry has been influenced loosely by the American William Carlos Williams. In general, the spare precision of Williams' short lines is a good preventive against galloping garrulity, and in Page's hands it delivers a dry and particularly Australian accent and a thoughtful movement from phrase to phrase. The short line, as a model, can be overdone: 'of 3 a.m.' is an example that does little for me. Page's technique is low-key – his French and American influences are invisible in the texture of his localised speech – yet it enables him to range widely among language and experience.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2024232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024232", "title": "Kazuyoshi Sekine", "text": "Kazuyoshi Sekine\n\nKazuyoshi Sekine (関根和美 \"Sekine Kazuyoshi\"), also known as Kazumi Sekine, is a Japanese film director, a dramatist, and a movie producer and the president of Sekine Production production company (関根プロ).\n\nHe mainly directs movies produced by independent film studios.\n\nHe is married to the actress Izumi Aki, who has appeared in his films.\n\nMany of his films are urban love stories.\n\nSekine Production\n"}
{"id": "2024233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024233", "title": "El Tepual Airport", "text": "El Tepual Airport\n\nEl Tepual International Airport is a commercial and private aviation facility which serves the tourist area of Puerto Montt, Chile. It is one of the most important airports in Chile and is considered a gateway to the Chilean Patagonia.\n\nLocated at the center of Northern Patagonia and near the Archaeological site of Monte Verde. The construction of the runway at El Tepual airport was completed in April 1960, and became the site of a great airlift after the a magnitude 9.5 earthquake hit the area on 22 May 1960. The airport with its original terminal was officially inaugurated in 1963. After Augusto Pinochet left Chile's Presidency, a plan was put underway by the new government to make new airport terminals and freeways across the country, so that Chile's smaller cities could have better connections with Santiago. Puerto Montt, along with Calama and other small areas, were among the most benefitted places out of the number of Chilean cities listed on the project.\n\nDuring the early 1990s, the numbers of international tourists (specially those from neighboring countries such as Argentina and Brazil) grew considerably. In 1995, the new airport terminal finally opened, with Lan Chile as the largest airline company flying there.\n\nLATAM Chile has been flying for many decades to Puerto Montt. Other carriers that fly to Puerto Montt are SKY Airline and JetSMART.\n\n\"El Tepual\" is owned by a number of international companies, headed by Chile's IDC, or \"Administracion de Concesiones\". In 1998, IDC agreed to operate the airport for twelve more years, which would make \"El Tepual\" their property until 2010.\n\nA new terminal was inaugurated in February 2010, having increased the number of jetways from 2 to 5, as well as improving the check-in area, baggage claim, airport security, heating system and other airport facilities as well as significantly enlarging the parking lot. By the mid 2020s, a new, parallel runway should be operative.\n\nThe airport has five jetways (also called \"airplane tunnel\"), 4 domestic gates (numbered 1–4) and one international gate (gate number 5, still not in operation and still used for domestic).\n\nThe airport has a restaurant, a massage facility, immigration offices and areas for disabled persons, among other facilities.\n\n\"El Tepual\" airport can only cater to airplanes with the size of a Boeing 707 or smaller. Boeing 737s, Airbus A318s, Airbus A319s, Airbus A320s and Airbus A321s are particularly prominent among airplanes that fly to the airport.\n\nIn 2004, the IDC estimated that one million passengers passed through the airport's gates, making it Chile's second busiest. IDC expects that total to rise to four million passengers by 2010. Among the cargo operations, the largest aircraft the airport has seen is the Boeing 777F.\n\nA large number of different airlines operate off-regular schedule service into \"El Tepual\". These are usually hired by tour agents or companies. These include such airlines as ATS Aerotaxis del Sur, Archipiélagos Aviación, AeroCord, Raúl Atala EIRL, Transportes Aéreos San Rafael and Pewén among others.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2024234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024234", "title": "Histri", "text": "Histri\n\nHistri () were an ancient tribe, which Strabo refers to as living in Istria, to which they gave the name.\n\nThe Histri lived within the area of Poreč around 6,000 years ago while Picugi - the Histri observatory, settlement, and ritual site - existed 4,000 years ago. The tribe is classified in some sources as a \"Venetic\" tribe, with some ties with Illyrians. It was also described as Thracians by others. Since they inhabited the Istrian peninsula, these people had more intensive trade and cultural contacts with the Mediterranean world, particularly central and southern Italy.\n\nThe Romans described the Histri as a fierce tribe of pirates, protected by the difficult navigation of their rocky coasts. An account stated that this tribe was first in the northern Adriatic area to be threatened by the Roman imperialism and to start a war. It took two military campaigns for the Romans to finally subdue them in 177 BCE. The region was then called, together with the Venetian part, the X. Roman region of \"Venetia et Histria\", the ancient definition of the northeastern border of Italy. Dante Alighieri refers to it as well; the eastern border of Italy per ancient definition is the river \"Arsia\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2024237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024237", "title": "Sulfide stress cracking", "text": "Sulfide stress cracking\n\nSulfide stress cracking (SSC) is a form of hydrogen embrittlement which is a cathodic cracking mechanism. It should not be confused with the term stress corrosion cracking which is an anodic cracking mechanism. Susceptible alloys, especially steels, react with hydrogen sulfide, forming metal sulfides and atomic hydrogen as corrosion byproducts. Atomic hydrogen either combines to form H at the metal surface or diffuses into the metal matrix. Since sulfur is a hydrogen recombination poison, the amount of atomic hydrogen which recombines to form H on the surface is greatly reduced, thereby increasing the amount of diffusion of atomic hydrogen into the metal matrix. This aspect is what makes wet HS environments so severe. \n\nSince SSC is a form of hydrogen embrittlement, it is most susceptibile to cracking at or slightly below ambient temperature. \n\nSulfide stress cracking has special importance in the gas and oil industry, as the materials being processed there (natural gas and crude oil) often contain considerable amounts of hydrogen sulfide. Equipment that comes in contact with HS environments can be rated for sour service with adherence to NACE MR0175/ISO 15156 for oil and gas production environments or NACE MR0103/ISO17945 for oil and gas refining environments.\n\n\"High Temperature Hydrogen Attack\" does not rely on atomic hydrogen. At high temperature and high hydrogen partial pressure, hydrogen can diffuse into carbon steel alloys. In susceptible alloys, the hydrogen combines with carbon within the alloy and forms methane. The methane molecules create a pressure buildup in the metal lattice voids, which leads to embrittlement and even cracking of the metal.\n\nSulfidic corrosion, also known as sulfidation, is the term used for high temperature corrosion (above 450F / above approx. 260°C) of steel in contact with sulfur (Fe reacts with S to form FeS).\n\n"}
{"id": "2024258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024258", "title": "List of career achievements by Wayne Gretzky", "text": "List of career achievements by Wayne Gretzky\n\nThis is a list of career achievements by Wayne Gretzky in the National Hockey League (NHL). Upon his retirement on 18 April 1999, Gretzky held or shared 61 NHL records. These records include 40 regular season, 15 playoff and 6 All-Star records.\n\nGretzky set records in both regular season and post-season play, holding the record for most career regular season goals (894), assists (1,963), points (2,857) and hat-tricks (50). The next closest player in total points for the regular season is Jaromir Jagr at 1,921, thus Gretzky had more career assists than any other player has total points. Gretzky scored his first 1,000 points faster (424 games) than any other player in NHL history, and scored a second 1,000 points (point number 1,001 through 2,000) faster (433 games) than any player other than himself. Gretzky's point total including regular season and playoffs stands at an imposing 3,239 (1,016 goals, 2,223 assists).\n\nHis 47 playoff points in 1985 and 31 assists in 1988 are still records for a single post-season round, and he holds the record for career playoff goals (122), assists (260), points (382), hat-tricks (10) and game-winning goals (24).\n\nBelow is a complete list of official records Gretzky held or shared at the time of his retirement:\n\n\n\n\nSince Wayne Gretzky’s retirement, two of his records have fallen and he has gained one record, leaving him with a new total of 60 official records.\n\nAlong with his numerous official records, Wayne Gretzky also has many \"unofficial\" records. These other records - though not recognized by the NHL Official Guide and Record Book - are still significant records.\n\n\n\nThe following are NHL milestone records:\n\n\n\n\nBold denotes career high\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki> denotes seasons in which Gretzky won the Stanley Cup\n\nHe won nine Hart Trophies, the NHL's most valuable player award, and eight of these were awarded in consecutive years from 1980–87. Gretzky holds the record for most MVP awards of any player in North American professional sports.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2024271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024271", "title": "Washington Aqueduct", "text": "Washington Aqueduct\n\nThe Washington Aqueduct is an aqueduct that provides the public water supply system serving Washington, D.C., and parts of its suburbs. One of the first major aqueduct projects in the United States, the Aqueduct was commissioned by Congress in 1852, and construction began in 1853 under the supervision of Montgomery C. Meigs and the US Army Corps of Engineers (which still owns and operates the system out of Baltimore District of the Corps). Portions of the Aqueduct went online on January 3, 1859, and the full pipeline began operating in 1864. The system has been in continuous use ever since. It is listed as a National Historic Landmark, and the Union Arch Bridge within the system is listed as a Historic Civil Engineering Landmark.\n\nThe centerpiece of the Aqueduct is a 12-mile (19 km) pipeline which connects the system's dam at Great Falls with the Dalecarlia Reservoir on the border with Montgomery County, Maryland. The pipeline runs along what is now MacArthur Boulevard, traversing some of the higher cliffs along the Potomac River.\n\nThe Union Arch Bridge carries the pipeline and MacArthur Boulevard over Cabin John Creek and the Cabin John Parkway near the community of Cabin John, Maryland. This bridge was the longest masonry arch bridge in the world for 40 years after its completion.\n\nThe Dalecarlia Reservoir serves as a primary sedimentation basin. A portion of the water from the reservoir is treated at the nearby Dalecarlia Water Treatment Plant and distributed to municipal water mains. The remainder of the water from the reservoir flows to the Georgetown Reservoir in Georgetown. This facility serves as an additional sedimentation basin, and then the water flows through the Washington City Tunnel to the treatment facility at the McMillan Reservoir, after which it is pumped through city mains.\n\nThe system originally used a single pipe for water delivery, and did not have any water purification plants, relying instead on the reservoirs to act as settling basins. By the turn of the 20th century, however, Washington's growth and the high amount of sediment in the Potomac's water kept the reservoirs from doing their jobs well, and so the first treatment plant, a massive slow sand filter bed system, was installed at McMillan Reservoir, and was completed in 1905. The regular use of chlorine as a disinfectant began in 1923 at the McMillan plant. The McMillan plant was not replaced until 1985, when a rapid sand filter plant was opened adjacent to it. Efforts are under way to redevelop the land the slow sand plant used, while maintaining some of the plant's sand silos for historical purposes.\n\nIn the 1920s, the Aqueduct was upgraded with the addition of a second pipe from Great Falls to Dalecarlia, along with several new reservoirs and a pumping station, A rapid sand filter plant was built at Dalecarlia Reservoir, which went online in 1927. The Dalecarlia plant is the larger of the two plants in the system, having been upgraded in the 1950s, and is the plant that serves the Virginia communities that use the Aqueduct. The Corps built an additional intake and pumping station at Little Falls in 1959.\n\nThe Aqueduct is a wholesale water supplier. The communities it serves are responsible for billing customers and managing water mains. The service area is:\n\n"}
{"id": "2024273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024273", "title": "Odontodactylus", "text": "Odontodactylus\n\nOdontodactylus is a genus of mantis shrimp, the only genus in the family Odontodactylidae. Mantis shrimp of the genus \"Odontodactylus\" can not only detect circular polarisation of light, but can also detect polarise light reflecting off their telson and uropods.\n\nThe genus \"Odontodactylus\" contains the following species:\n"}
{"id": "2024278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024278", "title": "Kenta Kobashi", "text": "Kenta Kobashi\n\nKobashi spent many of the later years of his career sidelined due to various injuries, undergoing numerous surgeries on his arms and legs in the early-mid 2000s, before retiring from in-ring action in May 2013. Kobashi continues to make sporadic appearances in both Noah and All Japan, while also promoting his own shows under the Fortune Dream banner.\n\nKobashi practiced judo and rugby union during high school in Fukuchiyama. He practised body building after his graduation while working \"regular\" jobs. He applied and was accepted to All Japan Pro Wrestling's (AJPW) dojo on June 20, 1987. He was trained there by Dory Funk Jr., Giant Baba, Kazuharu Sonoda and Masanobu Fuchi. Kobashi debuted as a professional wrestler in Ryūō, Shiga on February 26, 1988. He was booked by Shohei \"Giant\" Baba to lose his first 63 matches (all singles bouts). It was all part of Baba's master plan: even in defeat, the fiery, charismatic Kobashi shined, and his gutsy, never-say-die efforts earned him the Rookie of the Year award from the Japanese press. Kobashi won his first match in May 1989 (against Jim Crockett Promotions jobber Mitch Snow). During 1989, when The Road Warriors were in AJPW, they taught Kobashi the \"Road Warrior Workout\". He first gained some prominence as member of Mitsuharu Misawa's faction during Misawa's feud with Jumbo Tsuruta.\n\nKobashi during this period played dual roles according to who his partners and opponents were. When teamed with the higher ranking Misawa or Toshiaki Kawada, Kobashi would play the gutsy underdog. At the same time, when teamed with the much smaller Tsuyoshi Kikuchi, he would play a \"big brother\" role, coming in to try to save the day after Kikuchi had been worked on for a while by the opponents. Eleven months later he won his first title, the All Asia Tag Team Championship with Tiger Mask II (Misawa); however, shortly after removing the mask, Kobashi and Misawa would vacate the title. Over the next two years, Kobashi held the All Asia belts with Johnny Ace twice and with Kikuchi once. The title win with Kikuchi over Dan Kroffat and Doug Furnas took place before a rabid crowd in Kikuchi's hometown of Sendai on May 25, 1992; the match quickly gained legendary status among tape-traders, and was voted 1992's Match of the Year by the \"Wrestling Observer Newsletter\".\n\nIn 1993, he became Misawa's main tag partner in the middle of the year when Kawada became Misawa's main rival. He gained his first singles victory over a former Triple Crown Heavyweight Champion, when he defeated Terry Gordy in May of that year. On December 3, 1993 Kobashi gained his first pin over Kawada, won his first World's Strongest Tag Determination League, and won his first World Tag Team Championship. Kobashi received his first shot at the Triple Crown Championship against then-champion Steve Williams on September 3, 1994, but lost at Nippon Budokan, Tokyo. Kobashi's singles matches around this time with Kawada, Misawa and Stan Hansen are amongst his most highly regarded. In tag competition he had strong efforts with opponents as diverse as rookie Jun Akiyama to elderly legend and promotion owner Giant Baba. Over the next few years Kobashi continued to gain more honors, but his position in the company did not truly change. In the 1994 Champion Carnival he gained his first singles victory over Hansen. His next title challenge was against Kawada in January 1995. This led to a 60-minute time limit draw, and is regarded as the greatest 60 minute bout in wrestling history by the Wrestling Observer Newsletter. On June 9, 1995, Kobashi and Misawa lost the tag title to Akira Taue and Toshiaki Kawada. The match is also notable because it won the best match of the year award from Tokyo Sports. He suffered the first of many knee injuries in mid 1995, but worked through it. In the early part of 1996 the company elevated Jun Akiyama by making him Misawa's main tag partner. While this was good for Akiyama and lead to some fresh tag matches, it left Kobashi without a real tag partner for most of the year.\n\nKobashi defeated Akira Taue on July 24, 1996, to capture his first Triple Crown. He lost the championship to Misawa on January 20, 1997, in a very highly regarded match. In March 1997 in the Champion Carnival he gained his first pinfall victory over Misawa. At the end of the Carnival, Kobashi qualified for the finals for the first time. However, instead of the traditional one on one contest to settle the carnival, a one night 3 way round robin was held due to Kobashi, Kawada, and Misawa all having finished the Carnival round robin with the same score. In the first match Kobashi went to a 30-minute draw with Misawa. However, this match left both men greatly weakened and Kawada was able to quickly gain his first singles pin over Misawa in the next match that gave Kobashi little time to rest. In the final match Kawada defeated Kobashi to gain his second Carnival title. In October 1997 Kobashi won his first World Tag title without Misawa when he and Johnny Ace defeated Gary Albright and Steve Williams. In the same month he challenged Misawa for the Triple Crown in another memorable match, but again Misawa defeated him. While Kawada would finally end his quest to defeat Misawa for the Triple Crown at AJPW's May Tokyo Dome show called AJPW 25th Anniversary, in 1998, Kobashi would replace Kawada as Misawa's top rival. On June 12, 1998, Kobashi defeated Kawada to begin his second Triple Crown reign. Shortly before his victory he again suffered a major knee injury which he would not give time to heal, which nearly ended his career. He lost the championship again to Misawa on October 31.\n\n1998 would end with Kobashi gaining another career milestone as he with Akiyama, teaming as \"Burning\", captured his first World's Strongest Tag Determination League championship. As January began Kobashi was kicking off a new rivalry against Vader. He won the World's Strongest Tag Determination League again with Akiyama in December 1999. In February 2000 he defeated Vader to earn his third Triple Crown reign. Then in April 2000 he won his first Champion Carnival while in the course of the tournament gaining his first televised singles victory over Misawa. In mid-2000 Misawa left the company to form Pro Wrestling Noah; Kobashi, along with all but three All Japan native workers, followed Misawa. He was the reigning Triple Crown champion at the time, and the championship was thus vacated.\n\nOn August 30, 2009, Kobashi returned to All Japan Pro Wrestling for one night only, competing in his first match for the company in nine years. Kobashi teamed with Akihiko Ito and fellow AJPW alumnus Tsuyoshi Kikuchi in a losing effort to Satoshi Kojima, KAI and Hiroshi Yamato at Pro Wrestling Love in Ryogoku, Volume 8.\n\nDuring this period, Kobashi's knee injuries were beginning to worsen to the point that he desperately needed time off to heal. However, he was needed to establish Noah as a viable promotion, and was given a marquee position on the first two shows. On August 5, 2000, he teamed with Akiyama to defeat Misawa and Taue in a two out of three falls match in the main event of the promotion's first show, and then lost to Akiyama on the second show the next day (Kobashi legitimately passed out while being captured in Akiyama's \"King Crab Lock\" submission and was unable to finish the match). Noah struggled to organize itself without any titles during this period. At the biggest Noah show of the year on December 23, 2000 Kobashi defeated Akiyama, avenging his loss earlier that year. Unfortunately for Kobashi the next month his knees finally deteriorated to the point he could no longer work through the pain and he was forced to take 13 months off for healing. He went through multiple knee surgeries during this time.\n\nHis return match was on February 24, 2002, and featured Kobashi reforming his pairing with Misawa to face Akiyama and New Japan Pro Wrestling's (NJPW) Yuji Nagata. His knees again gave out on him during the match. After taking another five months to recuperate he returned and Noah began to slowly build towards him winning their top prize, the GHC Heavyweight Championship.\n\nOn March 1, 2003, Kobashi defeated his rival Mitsuharu Misawa in a match for the GHC Heavyweight Championship. Kobashi's reign spanned for over two years and included 13 successful defenses. Notable defences included: against Masahiro Chono at New Japan's May 2, 2003, Tokyo Dome event, against Yuji Nagata on September 12, 2003, against Yoshihiro Takayama on April 25, 2004, and against Jun Akiyama in the main event of Noah's first Tokyo Dome show on July 10, 2004. During his reign he won the Wrestling Observer Newsletter's Wrestler of the Year award in both 2003 and 2004. In March 2005 he finally lost the championship to Takeshi Rikio. Despite the loss of his title Kobashi remained Noah's top wrestler, the rest of the year was highlighted by matches with outsiders such as Genichiro Tenryu and Kensuke Sasaki (the latter on July 18, 2005 in the Tokyo Dome), and in the following year he had praised matches against junior heavyweights such as KENTA (March 5, 2006) and Naomichi Marufuji (April 23, 2006). Kobashi holds the distinction of having competed in a total of 23 5-Star Matches as rated by Dave Meltzer of the \"Wrestling Observer\", second only to his long-time rival, Misawa.\n\nIn late 2005, Kobashi made his first appearance in North America with Harley Race's World League Wrestling promotion, defeating then WLW champion Wild Wade Chism. His second and third North American appearances were for Ring of Honor, where he defeated Samoa Joe in a memorable singles match (given a full 5-stars by the \"Wrestling Observer\" as well as their Match of the Year award for 2005), and teamed with Homicide to defeat the tag team of Low Ki and Samoa Joe. Kobashi also traveled to Europe, where he had matches in Germany, and at Universal Uproar in England, in November 2005. After winning the GHC Tag Team Championship on June 4, 2006, Kobashi became inactive in the sport due to cancer, resulting in his partner Tamon Honda returning the belts on September 26, 2006. On December 10, at the Nippon Budokan, Kobashi appeared before the fans and announced that he would return \"without fail\".\n\nOn September 8, 2007, news broke that Kobashi would make his return on the December 2, 2007, Budokan Hall event where he would team up with Takayama to face Akiyama and Misawa. On the card, Misawa would pin Kobashi with an avalanche Emerald Flowsion, but the fans still gave Kobashi a rousing ovation.\n\nIn September 2008, Kobashi underwent emergency surgery on both of his arms. The surgery was successful, and Kobashi was expected to make a full recovery. Kobashi was expected to be out of action for up to a year, but he would return to the ring less than six months later. Prior to returning to the ring, Kobashi stated that he wanted to start in opening matches, and rebuild himself to a main event player.\n\nKenta Kobashi made his return to wrestling on March 1, 2009, at Nippon Budokan with Pro Wrestling Noah, defeated Masao Inoue in the opening match of the card with his signature lariat. Kobashi won the GHC Openweight Hardcore Championship from Makoto Hashi on June 8, 2009, in Hachiōji, Japan during Noah's \"Southern Navigation\" tour.\n\nOn December 23, 2009, Kobashi was seriously injured in a three-way match against Honda and Kikuchi. He was sidelined for 19 months with nerve damage in his right arm. Kobashi made his return on July 23, 2011, teaming with Go Shiozaki in a tag team match, where they were defeated by Akitoshi Saito and Jun Akiyama. On August 27, 2011, he debuted new ring gear, mixing black and orange, at the NJPW/AJPW/Noah All Together show at Budokan Hall, teaming up with AJPW's Keiji Mutoh, defeating NJPW's Takashi Iizuka and Toru Yano. On October 6, it was announced by Noah that Kobashi had stepped down from his position as an Executive Vice President of the promotion. On December 3, 2012, Noah released Kobashi from his contract. The news sparked shockwaves, as Atsushi Aoki, Go Shiozaki, Jun Akiyama, Kotaro Suzuki, and Yoshinobu Kanemaru spoke out, declaring their intent of not signing with Noah after their contracts expire in January, out of loyalty to Kobashi.\n\nOn December 9, 2012, Kobashi attended Noah's Ryōgoku Kokugikan event and during an in-ring interview, revealed he planned to retire in a Noah ring in 2013. Noah and Kobashi seemingly came to an agreement to let him retire as opposed to forcing him to leave the promotion. Despite this change in plans, Noah confirmed on December 19 that Akiyama, Shiozaki, Suzuki, Kanemaru and Aoki all would be leaving the promotion after December 24. On January 23, 2013, Kobashi announced that his retirement match would take place on at Nippon Budokan. Kobashi's retirement event, \"Final Burning in Budokan\" took place on May 11. His retirement ceremony was held after the second match on the show and was attended by former Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihiko Noda, legendary NTV announcers Akira Fukuzawa and Kazuo Tokumitsu, former colleagues Akira Taue, Hiroshi Hase, Masahiro Chono, Mitsuo Momota, Toshiaki Kawada, and Stan Hansen via video message, along with many others. In the main event, Kobashi teamed with Jun Akiyama, Keiji Mutoh, and Kensuke Sasaki in an eight-man tag team match, where they defeated his protégés Go Shiozaki, Kenta, Maybach Taniguchi, and Yoshinobu Kanemaru, with Kobashi pinning Kanemaru with a moonsault for the final win of his career. The event at Nippon Budokan was attended by 17,000 fans and aired live across Japan on the television network BS Sky! and in movie theaters.\n\nOn March 17, 2013, Kobashi made an appearance for All Japan Pro Wrestling to promote his retirement match. Before the main event, Hiroshi Hase announced that he would be resigning as Pacific Wrestling Federation (PWF) chairman to focus on the National Diet and that Kobashi would be replacing him, after his retirement on May 11. On September 8, Kobashi appeared as a color commentator at All Japan splinter promotion Wrestle-1's inaugural event. On October 27, it was confirmed that Kobashi would not be joining All Japan after all, when Dory Funk Jr. was announced as the new PWF chairman.\n\nOn February 14, 2014, Kobashi announced that starting June 8, he would begin producing his own independent events under the brand \"Fortune Dream\". The inaugural event featured wrestlers from various promotions, including All Japan Pro Wrestling, Big Japan Pro Wrestling, Kaientai Dojo, Pro Wrestling Zero1 and Wrestling New Classic.\n\nOn May 10, 2015, Kobashi returned to Noah to serve as a \"special witness\" for a GHC Heavyweight Championship match between champion Minoru Suzuki and challenger Naomichi Marufuji. Kobashi's role included making sure that the Suzuki-gun stable did not interfere in the match.\n\nKobashi married his girlfriend of 14 years, singer Mizuki Mai, on October 2, 2010. In August 2015, Mai gave birth to the couple's first child, a daughter.\n\nKobashi has the second-most 5-star matches (as rated by the Wrestling Observer Newsletter) with 23, two behind Mitsuharu Misawa's 25. In 2002, he was inducted by Dave Meltzer into the Wrestling Observer Newsletter Hall of Fame as the third inductee of the 2002 and the 148th inductee for his accomplishments in All Japan Pro Wrestling. For his last match on May 11, 2013 he was presented a replica of the GHC Heavyweight Championship belt as a farewell gift after his retirement match at Final Burning. He held the GHC Heavyweight Championship for a total of 735 days (the longest time held by any one competitor) with the second most successful defenses with 13.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2024284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024284", "title": "86 (MBTA bus)", "text": "86 (MBTA bus)\n\nThe Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority operates the 86 bus between Sullivan Square and Reservoir/Cleveland Circle via Harvard. It connects the Orange Line (Sullivan) with the Red Line (Harvard) and the B, C, and D branches of the Green line. It can provide a faster connection between these locations than traversing the \"hub and spokes\" of the MBTA's subway services. The 86 route is heavily used by those associated with the Boston College, Harvard, and WGBH communities. Few riders traverse the route from Sullivan Station to Cleveland Circle; instead, it is used primarily for shorter rides.\n\nThe 86 was an early bus route, added between the start of bus operations in 1922 and 1925. The original route ran between Union Square, Allston and Union Square, Somerville. This stayed until September 1977, when a rush-hour extension (made full-time April 1981) was made to Sullivan Square, supplementing the . In December 1989 an extension and realignment was made to the other end. The new route splits from the old route north of Union Square Allston and runs over the former 63 route to Reservoir. At the same time, the was extended north from Union Square to Harvard to keep service north from Union Square. The 63, which had run between Reservoir/Cleveland Circle and Central, was discontinued; the part not covered by the 86 extension was part of the route.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2024285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024285", "title": "Able Archer 83", "text": "Able Archer 83\n\nAble Archer 83 is the codename for a command post exercise carried out in November 1983 by the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO). As with Able Archer exercises from previous years, the purpose of the exercise was to simulate a period of conflict escalation, culminating in the US military attaining a simulated DEFCON 1 coordinated nuclear attack. Coordinated from the Supreme Headquarters Allied Powers Europe (SHAPE) headquarters in Casteau, Belgium, it involved NATO forces throughout Western Europe, beginning on November 7, 1983, and lasting for five days.\n\nThe 1983 exercise introduced several new elements not seen in previous years, including a new, unique format of coded communication, radio silences, and the participation of heads of government. This increase in realism, combined with deteriorating relations between the United States and the Soviet Union and the anticipated arrival of Pershing II nuclear missiles in Europe, led some members of the Soviet Politburo and military to believe that Able Archer 83 was a ruse of war, obscuring preparations for a genuine nuclear first strike. In response, the Soviet Union readied their nuclear forces and placed air units in East Germany and Poland on alert. The apparent threat of nuclear war ended with the conclusion of the exercise on November 11.\n\nHistorians such as Thomas Blanton, Director of the National Security Archive, and Tom Nichols, a professor at the Naval War College, have since argued that Able Archer 83 was one of the times when the world has come closest to nuclear war since the Cuban Missile Crisis in 1962. Other incidents that also brought the world close to such a war include the Soviet nuclear false alarm incident that occurred a month earlier and the Norwegian rocket incident of 1995.\n\nThe greatest catalyst to the Able Archer war scare occurred more than two years earlier. In a May 1981 closed-session meeting of senior KGB officers and Soviet leaders, General Secretary Leonid Brezhnev and KGB chairman Yuri Andropov bluntly announced that the United States was preparing a secret nuclear attack on the USSR.\n\nTo combat this threat, Andropov announced, the KGB and GRU military foreign intelligence arm would begin \"Operation RYaN\". RYaN (РЯН) was a Russian acronym for \"Nuclear Missile Attack\" (Ракетное Ядерное Нападение); Operation RYaN was the largest, most comprehensive peacetime intelligence-gathering operation in Soviet history. Agents abroad were charged with monitoring the figures who would decide to launch a nuclear attack, the service and technical personnel who would implement the attack, and the facilities from which the attack would originate. It is possible that the goal of Operation RYaN was to discover the first \"intent\" of a nuclear attack and then preempt it.\n\nThe exact impetus for the implementation of Operation RYaN is not known for sure. Oleg Gordievsky, the highest-ranking KGB official ever to defect, attributed it to \"a potentially lethal combination of Reaganite rhetoric and Soviet paranoia.\" Gordievsky conjectured that Brezhnev and Andropov, who \"were very, very old-fashioned and easily influenced ... by Communist dogmas\", truly believed that an antagonistic Ronald Reagan would push the nuclear button and relegate the Soviet Union to the literal \"ash heap of history\". Central Intelligence Agency historian Benjamin B. Fischer lists several concrete occurrences that likely led to the birth of RYaN. The first of these was the use of psychological operations (PSYOP) that began soon after Reagan took office.\n\nIn his report, Fischer also writes that another CIA source was, at least partially, corroborating Gordievsky's reporting. This Czechoslovak intelligence officer—who worked closely with the KGB on RYaN—\"noted that his counterparts were obsessed with the historical parallel between 1941 and 1983. He believed this feeling was almost visceral, not intellectual, and deeply affected Soviet thinking.\"\n\nPsychological operations (PSYOP) by the United States began in mid-February 1981 and continued intermittently until 1983. These included a series of clandestine naval operations that stealthily accessed waters near the Greenland–Iceland–United Kingdom (GIUK) gap, and the Barents, Norwegian, Black, and Baltic seas, demonstrating how close NATO ships could get to critical Soviet military bases. American bombers also flew directly towards Soviet airspace, peeling off at the last moment, sometimes several times per week. These near-penetrations were designed to test Soviet radar vulnerability as well as demonstrate US capabilities in a nuclear war.\n\n\"It really got to them,\" said Dr. William Schneider, [former] undersecretary of state for military assistance and technology, who saw classified \"after-action reports\" that indicated U.S. flight activity. \"They didn't know what it all meant. A squadron would fly straight at Soviet airspace, and other radars would light up and units would go on alert. Then at the last minute the squadron would peel off and return home.\"\n\nIn April 1983, the United States Navy conducted FleetEx '83-1, the largest fleet exercise held to date in the North Pacific. The conglomeration of approximately 40 ships with 23,000 crewmembers and 300 aircraft was arguably one of the most powerful naval armadas ever assembled. U.S. aircraft and ships attempted to provoke the Soviets into reacting, allowing the U.S. Office of Naval Intelligence to study Soviet radar characteristics, aircraft capabilities, and tactical maneuvers. On April 4 at least six U.S. Navy aircraft flew over Zeleny Island, one of the Kurile Islands. In retaliation the Soviets ordered an overflight of the Aleutian Islands. The Soviet Union also issued a formal diplomatic note of protest, which accused the United States of repeated penetrations of Soviet airspace.\n\nOn September 1, 1983, the Korean Air Lines Flight 007 (KAL 007) was shot down by a Soviet interceptor over the Sea of Japan near Moneron Island (just west of Sakhalin island) while flying over prohibited Soviet airspace. All 269 passengers and crew aboard were killed, including Congressman Larry McDonald, a sitting member of the United States House of Representatives from Georgia and president of the anti-communist John Birch Society.\n\nFrom the start, the Reagan administration adopted a bellicose stance toward the Soviet Union, one that favored seriously constraining Soviet strategic and global military capabilities. The administration's rigorous focus on this objective resulted in the largest peacetime military buildup in the history of the United States. It also ushered in the final major escalation in rhetoric of the Cold War. On June 8, 1982, Reagan, in a speech to the British House of Commons, declared that, \"... Freedom and democracy will leave Marxism and Leninism on the ash heap of history.\"\n\nOn March 23, 1983, Reagan announced one of the most ambitious and controversial components to this strategy, the Strategic Defense Initiative (labeled \"Star Wars\" by the media and critics). While Reagan portrayed the initiative as a safety net against nuclear war, leaders in the Soviet Union viewed it as a definitive departure from the relative weapons parity of détente and an escalation of the arms race into space. Yuri Andropov, who had become General Secretary following Brezhnev's death in November 1982, criticised Reagan for \"inventing new plans on how to unleash a nuclear war in the best way, with the hope of winning it\".\n\nDespite the Soviet outcry over the Strategic Defense Initiative, the weapons plan that generated the most alarm among the Soviet Union's leadership during Able Archer 83 was NATO's planned deployment of intermediate-range Pershing II missiles in Western Europe. These missiles, deployed to counter Soviet SS-20 intermediate-range missiles on the USSR's western border, represented a major threat to the Soviets. The Pershing II was capable of destroying Soviet \"hard targets\" such as underground missile silos and command and control bunkers.\n\nThe missiles could be emplaced in and launched from any surveyed site in minutes, and because the guidance system was self-correcting, the missile system possessed a genuine \"first strike capability\". Furthermore, it was estimated that the missiles (deployed in West Germany) could reach targets in the western Soviet Union within four to six minutes of their launch. These capabilities led Soviet leaders to believe that the only way to survive a Pershing II strike was to preempt it. This fear of an undetected Pershing II attack, according to CIA historian Benjamin B. Fischer, was explicitly linked to the mandate of Operation RYaN: to detect a decision by the United States to launch a nuclear attack and to preempt it.\n\nOn the night of September 26, 1983, the Soviet orbital missile early warning system (SPRN), code-named Oko, reported a single intercontinental ballistic missile launch from the territory of the United States. Lieutenant Colonel Stanislav Petrov, who was on duty during the incident, correctly dismissed the warning as a computer error when ground early warning radars did not detect any launches. Part of his reasoning was that the system was new and known to have malfunctioned previously; also, a full-scale nuclear attack from the United States would involve thousands of simultaneous launches, not a single missile.\n\nLater, the system reported four more ICBM launches headed to the Soviet Union, but Petrov again dismissed the reports as false. The investigation that followed revealed that the system indeed malfunctioned and false alarms were caused by a rare alignment of sunlight on high-altitude clouds underneath the satellites' orbits.\n\nA scenario released by NATO details the hypothetical lead-up to the Able Archer exercise, which was used by the Joint Chiefs of Staff in Washington D.C. and the Ministry of Defence in London. Dr. Gregory Pedlow, a SHAPE historian explains the war game:\n\nThe exercise scenario began with Orange (the hypothetical opponent) opening hostilities in all regions of ACE on 4 November (three days before the start of the exercise) and Blue (NATO) declaring a general alert. Orange initiated the use of chemical weapons on 6 November and by the end of that day had used such weapons throughout ACE. All of these events had taken place prior to the start of the exercise and were simply part of the written scenario. There had thus been three days of fighting and a deteriorating situation prior to the start of the exercise. This was desired because—as previously stated—the purpose of the exercise was to test procedures for transitioning from conventional to nuclear operations. As a result of Orange advance, its persistent use of chemical weapons, and its clear intentions to rapidly commit second echelon forces, SACEUR requested political guidance on the use of nuclear weapons early on Day 1 of the exercise (7 November 1983)...\n\nThus, on November 7, 1983, as Soviet intelligence services were attempting to detect the early signs of a nuclear attack, NATO began to simulate one. The exercise, codenamed Able Archer, involved numerous NATO allies and simulated NATO's Command, Control, and Communications (C³) procedures during a nuclear war. Some Soviet leaders, because of the preceding world events and the exercise's particularly realistic nature, feared that the exercise was a cover for an actual attack. A KGB telegram of February 17 described one likely scenario:\n\nIn view of the fact that the measures involved in State Orange [a nuclear attack within 36 hours] have to be carried out with the utmost secrecy (under the guise of maneuvers, training etc.) in the shortest possible time, without disclosing the content of operational plans, it is highly probable that the battle alarm system may be used to prepare a surprise RYaN [nuclear attack] in peacetime.\n\nAlso on February 17, KGB Permanent Operational Assignment assigned its agents to monitor several possible indicators of a nuclear attack. These included actions by \"A cadre of people associated with preparing and implementing decision about RYaN, and also a group of people, including service and technical personnel ... those working in the operating services of installations connected with processing and implementing the decision about RYaN, and communication staff involved in the operation and interaction of these installations.\"\n\nBecause Able Archer 83 simulated an actual release, it is likely that the service and technical personnel mentioned in the memo were active in the exercise. More conspicuously, British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher and West German Chancellor Helmut Kohl participated (though not concurrently) in the nuclear drill. United States President Reagan, Vice President George H. W. Bush, and Secretary of Defense Caspar Weinberger were also intended to participate. Robert McFarlane, who had assumed the position of National Security Advisor just two weeks earlier, realized the implications of such participation early in the exercise's planning and rejected it.\n\nAnother illusory indicator likely noticed by Soviet analysts was a high rate of ciphered communications between the United Kingdom and the United States. Soviet intelligence was informed that \"so-called nuclear consultations in NATO are probably one of the stages of immediate preparation by the adversary for RYaN\". To the Soviet analysts, this burst of secret communications between the United States and the UK one month before the beginning of Able Archer may have appeared to be this \"consultation\". In reality, the burst of communication was about the US invasion of Grenada on October 25, 1983, which caused a great deal of diplomatic traffic as the sovereign of the island was Elizabeth II.\n\nA further startling aspect reported by KGB agents concerned the NATO communications used during the exercise. According to Moscow Centre's February 17 memo,\n\nIt [is] of the highest importance to keep a watch on the functioning of communications networks and systems since through them information is passed about the adversary's intentions and, above all, about his plans to use nuclear weapons and practical implementation of these. In addition, changes in the method of operating communications systems and the level of manning may in themselves indicate the state of preparation for RYaN.\n\nSoviet intelligence appeared to substantiate these suspicions by reporting that NATO was indeed using unique, never-before-seen procedures as well as message formats more sophisticated than previous exercises, which possibly indicated the proximity of nuclear attack.\n\nFinally, during Able Archer 83, NATO forces simulated a move through all alert phases, from DEFCON 5 to DEFCON 1. While these phases were simulated, alarmist KGB agents mistakenly reported them as actual. According to Soviet intelligence, NATO doctrine stated, \"\"Operational readiness No. 1\" is declared when there are obvious indications of preparation to begin military operations. It is considered that war is inevitable and may start at any moment.\"\n\nAccording to a 2013 analysis by the National Security Archive: \nThe Able Archer controversy has featured numerous descriptions of the exercise as so \"routine\" that it could not have alarmed the Soviet military and political leadership. Today's posting reveals multiple non-routine elements, including: a 170-flight, radio-silent air lift of 19,000 US soldiers to Europe, the shifting of commands from \"Permanent War Headquarters to the Alternate War Headquarters,\" the practice of \"new nuclear weapons release procedures,\" including consultations with cells in Washington and London, and the \"sensitive, political issue\" of numerous \"slips of the tongue\" in which B-52 sorties were referred to as nuclear \"strikes.\" These variations, seen through \"the fog of nuclear exercises,\" did in fact match official Soviet intelligence-defined indicators for \"possible operations by the USA and its allies on British territory in preparation for RYaN\"—the KGB code name for a feared Western nuclear missile attack.\n\nUpon learning that U.S. nuclear activity mirrored its hypothesized first strike activity, the Moscow Centre sent its residencies a flash telegram on November 8 or 9 (Oleg Gordievsky cannot recall which), incorrectly reporting an alert on American bases and frantically asking for further information regarding an American first strike. The alert precisely coincided with the seven- to ten-day period estimated between NATO's preliminary decision and an actual strike. This was the peak of the war scare.\n\nThe Soviet Union, believing its only chance of surviving a NATO strike was to preempt it, readied its nuclear arsenal. The CIA reported activity in the Baltic Military District and in Czechoslovakia, and it determined that nuclear-capable aircraft in Poland and East Germany were placed \"on high alert status with readying of nuclear strike forces\". Former CIA analyst Peter Vincent Pry goes further, saying he suspects that the aircraft were merely the tip of the iceberg. He hypothesizes that—in accordance with Soviet military procedure and history—ICBM silos, easily readied and difficult for the United States to detect, were also prepared for a launch. Lt. Gen. Leonard H. Perroots is credited with the decision not to place NATO forces on increased alert despite increased Soviet readiness, thereby reducing the possibility of a nuclear exchange.\n\nSoviet fears of the attack ended as the Able Archer exercise finished on November 11. Upon learning of the Soviet reaction to Able Archer 83 by way of the double agent Oleg Gordievsky, a British SIS asset, President Reagan commented, \"I don't see how they could believe that—but it's something to think about.\"\n\nThe double agent Oleg Gordievsky, whose highest rank was KGB rezident in London, is the only Soviet source ever to have published an account of Able Archer 83. Oleg Kalugin and Yuri Shvets, who were KGB officers in 1983, have published accounts that acknowledge Operation RYaN, but they do not mention Able Archer 83. Gordievsky and other Warsaw Pact intelligence agents were extremely skeptical about a NATO first strike, perhaps because of their proximity to, and understanding of, the West. Nevertheless, agents were ordered to report their observations, not their analysis, and this critical flaw in the Soviet intelligence system—coined by Gordievsky as the \"intelligence cycle\"—fed the fear of US nuclear aggression.\n\nMarshal Sergei Akhromeyev, who at the time was chief of the main operations directorate of the Soviet General Staff, told Cold War historian Don Orbendorfer that he had never heard of Able Archer. The lack of public Soviet response over Able Archer 83 has led some historians, including Fritz W. Ermarth in his piece, \"Observations on the 'War Scare' of 1983 From an Intelligence Perch\", to conclude that the Soviet Union did not see Able Archer 83 as posing an immediate threat to the Soviet Union.\n\nIn May 1984, CIA Russian specialist Ethan J. Done drafted \"Implications of Recent Soviet Military-Political Activities\", which concluded: \"we believe strongly that Soviet actions are not inspired by, and Soviet leaders do not perceive, a genuine danger of imminent conflict with the United States.\" Robert Gates, Deputy Director for Intelligence during Able Archer 83, has published thoughts on the exercise that dispute this conclusion:\n\nInformation about the peculiar and remarkably skewed frame of mind of the Soviet leaders during those times that has emerged since the collapse of the Soviet Union makes me think there is a good chance—with all of the other events in 1983—that they really felt a NATO attack was at least possible and that they took a number of measures to enhance their military readiness short of mobilization. After going through the experience at the time, then through the postmortems, and now through the documents, I don't think the Soviets were crying wolf. They may not have believed a NATO attack was imminent in November 1983, but they did seem to believe that the situation was very dangerous. And US intelligence [SNIE 11–9-84 and SNIE 11–10–84] had failed to grasp the true extent of their anxiety.\n\nA report written by Nina Stewart for the President's Foreign Advisory Board concurs with Gates and refutes the previous CIA reports, concluding that further analysis shows that the Soviets were, in fact, genuinely fearful of US aggression. The decision of Gen. Perroots was described as \"fortuitous\", noting \"[he] acted correctly out of instinct, not informed guidance,\" suggesting that had the depth of Soviet fear been fully realized, NATO may have responded differently.\n\nSome historians, including Beth A. Fischer in her book \"The Reagan Reversal\", pin Able Archer 83 as profoundly affecting President Reagan and his turn from a policy of confrontation towards the Soviet Union to a policy of rapprochement. The thoughts of Reagan and those around him provide important insight upon the nuclear scare and its subsequent ripples. On October 10, 1983, just over a month before Able Archer 83, President Reagan viewed a television film about Lawrence, Kansas, being destroyed by a nuclear attack titled \"The Day After\". In his diary, the president wrote that the film \"left me greatly depressed\".\n\nLater in October, Reagan attended a Pentagon briefing on nuclear war. During his first two years in office, he had refused to take part in such briefings, feeling it irrelevant to rehearse a nuclear apocalypse; finally, he consented to the Pentagon official requests. According to officials present, the briefing \"chastened\" Reagan. Weinberger said, \"[Reagan] had a very deep revulsion to the whole idea of nuclear weapons ... These war games brought home to anybody the fantastically horrible events that would surround such a scenario.\" Reagan described the briefing in his own words: \"A most sobering experience with <nowiki>[</nowiki>Caspar Weinberger<nowiki>]</nowiki> and Gen. Vessey in the Situation Room, a briefing on our complete plan in the event of a nuclear attack.\"\n\nThese two glimpses of nuclear war primed Reagan for Able Archer 83, giving him a very specific picture of what would occur had the situation further developed. After receiving intelligence reports from sources including Gordievsky, it was clear that the Soviets were unnerved. While officials were concerned with the Soviet panic, they were hesitant about believing the proximity of a Soviet attack. Secretary of State George P. Shultz thought it \"incredible, at least to us\" that the Soviets would believe the US would launch a genuine attack. In general, Reagan did not share the secretary's belief that cooler heads would prevail, writing:\n\nWe had many contingency plans for responding to a nuclear attack. But everything would happen so fast that I wondered how much planning or reason could be applied in such a crisis... Six minutes to decide how to respond to a blip on a radar scope and decide whether to unleash Armageddon! How could anyone apply reason at a time like that?\n\nAccording to McFarlane, the president responded with \"genuine anxiety\" in disbelief that a regular NATO exercise could have led to an armed attack. To the ailing Politburo—led from the deathbed of the terminally ill Andropov, a man with no firsthand knowledge of the United States, and the creator of Operation RYaN—it seemed \"that the United States was preparing to launch ... a sudden nuclear attack on the Soviet Union\". In his memoirs, Reagan, without specifically mentioning Able Archer 83, wrote of a 1983 realization:\n\nThree years had taught me something surprising about the Russians: Many people at the top of the Soviet hierarchy were genuinely afraid of America and Americans. Perhaps this shouldn't have surprised me, but it did...During my first years in Washington, I think many of us in the administration took it for granted that the Russians, like ourselves, considered it unthinkable that the United States would launch a first strike against them. But the more experience I had with Soviet leaders and other heads of state who knew them, the more I began to realize that many Soviet officials feared us not only as adversaries but as potential aggressors who might hurl nuclear weapons at them in a first strike...Well, if that was the case, I was even more anxious to get a top Soviet leader in a room alone and try to convince him we had no designs on the Soviet Union and Russians had nothing to fear from us.\"\n\nReagan eventually met Soviet General Secretary Mikhail Gorbachev in Geneva in 1985 and at subsequent summits, leading to the 1987 Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces Treaty and later treaties.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2024286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024286", "title": "Théminettes", "text": "Théminettes\n\nThéminettes is a commune in the Lot department in south-western France.\n\n"}
{"id": "2024290", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024290", "title": "Staballoy", "text": "Staballoy\n\n]\nStaballoy is the name of two different classes of metal alloys, one class typically used for munitions and a different class developed for drilling rods.\n\nIn a military context, staballoys are metal alloys of a high proportion of depleted uranium with other metals, usually titanium or molybdenum, designed for use in kinetic energy penetrator armor-piercing munitions. One formulation has a composition of 99.25% of depleted uranium and 0.75% of titanium. Other variants can have 3.5% of titanium. They are about 70% more dense than lead.\n\nAn alternative to staballoys in kinetic penetrator munition is tungsten, but it is more expensive, more difficult to machine and is not pyrophoric, so the munition lacks the incendiary effect enhancing its impact. Tungsten penetrators also tend to form a mushroom shaped tip during armor penetration, while uranium ones tend to be self-sharpening.\n\nAn emerging alternative alloy of depleted uranium is stakalloy, formed of niobium (0.01-0.95 wt.%), vanadium (1-4.5 wt.%, between gamma-eutectoid and eutectic) and uranium (balance). It has improved machinability. It can be used in structural applications too.\n\nStaballoy is also a name for a class of commercially used stainless steels used for drilling rods for drilling rigs. An example is Staballoy AG17 which is a different material from military staballoy, and contains 20.00% manganese, 17.00% chromium, 0.30% silicon, 0.03% carbon, 0.50% nitrogen, and 0.05% molybdenum, alloyed with iron. It is nonmagnetic. \n\n"}
{"id": "2024296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024296", "title": "Stary Gostyń", "text": "Stary Gostyń\n\nStary Gostyń () is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Gostyń, within Gostyń County, Greater Poland Voivodeship, in west-central Poland. It lies approximately north-west of Gostyń and south of the regional capital Poznań.\n\nThe village has a population of 440.\n\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "2024318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024318", "title": "Ranunculus pygmaeus", "text": "Ranunculus pygmaeus\n\nRanunculus pygmaeus, the pygmy buttercup or dwarf buttercup, is a species of buttercup found throughout the Arctic, as well as in the mountains of Norway and the Rocky Mountains. A few populations also exist in the Eastern Alps and Tatra Mountains.\nIt is a small plant, prostrate-ascending, 1–5 cm tall. The stems are single-flowered, with the basal leaves numerous. The leaves are deeply cleft into 3-5 lobes. The flowers are 5–6 mm in diameter, with five pale yellow petals, and five hairy sepals. After flowering, the stems stretch considerably, reaching far above the basal leaves. It grows in snowbeds, moss carpets and other moist localities.\n"}
{"id": "2024319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024319", "title": "James Zogby", "text": "James Zogby\n\nJames Joseph Zogby (born 1945) is the founder and president of the Arab American Institute (AAI), a Washington, D.C.–based organization that serves as a political and policy research arm of the Arab-American community. He is Managing Director of Zogby Research Services, LLC, specializing in research and communications and undertaking polling across the Arab world. In September 2013 President Obama appointed Zogby to the United States Commission on International Religious Freedom. Zogby is a lecturer and scholar on Middle East issues and a Visiting Professor of Social Research and Public Policy at New York University Abu Dhabi. From 2001 to 2017 he was a member of the Executive Committee of the Democratic National Committee.\n\nZogby's father, Joseph, immigrated from Lebanon to the United States in 1922. He eventually obtained citizenship through a government policy of amnesty and worked as a grocer. He married Celia Ann, a teacher, also born with the surname \"Zogby\"; they lived in Utica, New York, where their children were born. Zogby, like his parents, is Catholic.\n\nHe attended Le Moyne College in Syracuse, New York, graduating in 1967 with a bachelor's degree in economics. He went on to earn his Ph.D. in Islamic studies from Temple University in 1975. He studied at Princeton University in 1976 as a National Endowment for the Humanities post-doctoral fellow.\n\nDuring the late 1970s Zogby was a founding member and leader of the Palestine Human Rights Campaign. In 1980 he co-founded the American-Arab Anti-Discrimination Committee with former U.S. Senator James Abourezk and served as executive director until 1984. In 1982, while at ADC, Zogby helped create Save Lebanon, Inc., a private, nonprofit, non-sectarian humanitarian relief organization to fund social welfare projects in Lebanon and health care for Palestinian and Lebanese victims of war. In March 1985 Zogby founded the Arab American Institute, of which he is still president.\n\nIn 1993 Vice President Al Gore tapped Zogby to help lead Builders for Peace after the signing of the Israeli-Palestinian peace accord in Washington. As co-president of Builders, Zogby promoted business investment by Arab-Americans in the West Bank and Gaza Strip. As co-president of Builders, Zogby frequently traveled to the Middle East with delegations led by Gore and Secretary of Commerce Ron Brown. In 1994 he led a U.S. delegation to the signing of the agreement in Cairo, Egypt, along with the Builders co-president, former U.S. Congressman Mel Levine. Zogby also chaired a forum on the Palestinian economy at the Casablanca Economic Summit. After 1994, through Builders, Zogby worked with a number of U.S. Agencies to promote and support Palestinian economic development including AID, OPIC, USTDA, and the Departments of State and Commerce.\n\nSince 1992 Zogby has written \"Washington Watch\", a weekly column on American politics for major Arab newspapers, which is published in 14 Arab and South Asian countries. He has written several books, including \"What Ethnic Americans Really Think (The Zogby Culture Polls)\" and \"What Arabs Think: Values, Beliefs and Concerns\". He also blogs at \"The Huffington Post\" and is a member of \"Politico\"s Arena. Zogby hosted a weekly interview and call-in discussion program, \"Viewpoint with James Zogby\", about Middle East and world issues on Abu Dhabi Television, which was broadcast in America on Link TV, DirecTV and Dish Network. The show won an award at the Cairo Radio/Television Festival.\n\nIn 1984 and 1988 Zogby served as deputy campaign manager and senior advisor to Jesse Jackson's presidential campaigns. In 1995 he was appointed as co-convener of the National Democratic Ethnic Coordinating Committee (NDECC), an umbrella organization within the Democratic Party of leaders of European and Mediterranean descent, to which he was reelected in 1999 and 2001. Also in 2001 he was appointed to the Executive Committee of the Democratic National Committee (DNC), and in 2006 he was named co-chair of the DNC's Resolutions Committee. He served as Gore's Senior Advisor on Ethnic Outreach, a post he also held in the 2008 Obama campaign.\n\nAs an author and scholar on Middle East issues and the Arab-American community, Zogby has been invited to testify before a number of Congressional Committees and Executive branch forums, including on the subject of Arab attitudes toward the United States. He has been a guest speaker in the Secretary's Open Forum at the U.S. Department of State. Zogby has also addressed the United Nations and other international forums. He is a member of the Council on Foreign Relations. President Obama appointed Zogby to the U.S. Commission on International Religious Freedom in 2013 and reappointed him to a second term in 2015.\n\nZogby has been the target of repeated anti-Arab threats, for which at least three men have been convicted and sent to prison. In 1980 Zogby's office in Washington, D.C. was fire-bombed. In July 2006, during the 2006 Lebanon War, Zogby and other senior Arab American Institute employees were threatened in emails and voice mail messages from Patrick Syring, a career Foreign Service Officer of the U.S. State Department. Syring accused Zogby and the Arab American Institute of being part of Hezbollah, and Zogby of being an anti-Semite. Syring said, \"The only good Lebanese is a dead Lebanese. The only good Arab is a dead Arab.\" In one email, Syring wrote, \"You wicked evil Hezbollah-supporting Arabs should burn in the fires of hell for eternity and beyond. The United States would be safer without you.\". In a March 2008 email to a television station that had aired an interview with Zogby, Syring accused Zogby and the Arab American Institute of \"promoting the interests of Hezbollah, Hamas and Arab terror\". Syring was sentenced on July 11, 2008, to one year in prison for civil rights violations. He was released early on January 30, 2009.\n\nLe Moyne College awarded Zogby an honorary doctor of laws degree in 1995 and in 1997 named him the college's outstanding alumnus. In 2007 Temple University College of Liberal Arts also singled out Zogby as an outstanding alumnus. In 2008 American University of Cairo awarded him an honorary doctorate. Zogby was also named an Honorary Patron of the University Philosophical Society, Trinity College, Dublin.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2024333", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024333", "title": "Moonah, Tasmania", "text": "Moonah, Tasmania\n\nMoonah is a suburb in the city of Hobart, Tasmania, Australia located approximately 5 km north of the central business district of Hobart, and lying directly north of the inner city suburb New Town. In the 2016 Australian census, the population of Moonah was 5,421.\n\nOriginally land given free to settlers along the banks of the New Town Rivulet, this area eventually became known as the suburbs of New Town and Moonah.\n"}
{"id": "2024343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024343", "title": "Dutch nobility", "text": "Dutch nobility\n\nWith the constitutional reform of 1848, the nobles lost their constitutional role with regards to selecting members for the States-Provincial. Thereafter, the only privileges currently enjoyed by the nobility are the carrying of titles and the grant of coats of arms by royal decree.\n\nThe nobility are currently regulated by the Nobility Act, passed into law on 1 August 1994, and is overseen by the , an official state institution of the Kingdom of the Netherlands which also maintains the official nobility register.\n\nDuring the period between 1581 and 1795, when the Netherlands was a republic (Republic of the Seven United Netherlands), the native nobility kept their constitutional significance. In each province, the nobility was organised in knighthoods, which maintained representation in the States-Provincial. In 1795, after the Batavian Revolution, the positions and thus the nobility were abolished.\n\nWith the establishment of the Sovereign Principality of the United Netherlands in 1813, the rights of the nobility were restored, and the peerage regained official status. The Constitution established that nobility would be granted by the King, and the ways in which this could happen were clarified by Sovereign Decree no. 60, signed on 13 February 1815. Initially this was by appointment into the re-established knighthoods, but after several years exclusively through acknowledgement, incorporation or elevation. These terms refer to the \"acknowledgement\" of indigenous titles of nobility existing before 1795, the \"incorporation\" of originally foreign titles of nobility, and \"elevation\" where an entirely new title is created. The electoral colleges for the (indirect) elections of the Senate and the House of Representatives of the States General consisted of the knighthoods, amongst others. In 1814, William I established the which, as his advisory body, would help him re-establish a strong nobility. From then on, new members of the knighthoods would also be recruited from regent families. The Council started maintaining a register of the nobility, the \"filiatieregister\".\n\nIn the constitutional amendment of 1848, the feudal society was abolished, and the constitutional role of the nobility again came to an end. The only legal privilege the nobility retained was the right to hold a predicate or a title. In 1994, the constitutional article was replaced by a separate Nobility Act which codified the existing practice. According to this law, nobility can still be granted in the three aforementioned ways, although the possibilities are significantly reduced. Elevation, which had not taken place since 1939 and was practically abolished by the council of ministers in 1953, has been reduced to the Royal House. Government policy has since focussed on rewarding personal merit through royal decorations. The last elevation into the Dutch nobility concerns Princess Máxima, in a Royal Decree of 25 January 2002 (Government Gazette 41), due to the fact of her marriage to the Prince of Orange.\n\nSomeone belongs to the Dutch nobility when either they have been granted nobility by Royal Decree, or when their father belonged to the nobility. Nobility is inherited exclusively through male lineage, which means that while daughters belong to the nobility as well, they are unable to pass it to their children. Someone can be granted nobility through acknowledgement of indigenous titles of nobility existing before 1795, through incorporation of foreign titles of nobility, or through elevation, in which a new title of nobility is created. There are seven titles of nobility. In order of precedence, these are Prince, Duke, Marquis, Count, Viscount, Baron and Knight. People in the nobility who have not been granted a title carry the predicate \"Jonkheer\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2024345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024345", "title": "Passat (ship)", "text": "Passat (ship)\n\nPassat is a German four-masted steel barque and one of the Flying P-Liners, the famous sailing ships of the German shipping company F. Laeisz. She is one of the last surviving windjammers. (The name \"Passat\" is German for \"trade wind\".)\n\n\"Passat\" was launched in 1911 at the Blohm & Voss shipyard, Hamburg. She began her maiden voyage on Christmas Eve 1911 toward Cape Horn and the nitrate ports of Chile. She was used for decades to ship general cargo outbound and nitrate home. \"Passat\" was interned at Iquique for the duration of World War I and sailed in 1921 to Marseille and was turned over to France as war reparation. The French government put her up for sale, and the Laeisz Company was able to buy back the ship for £13,000. Again she was used as a nitrate carrier until 1932 when \"Passat\" was sold to the Gustaf Erikson Line of Finland. The ship was then used in the grain trade from Spencer Gulf in South Australia to Europe. At the onset of World War II, \"Passat\" was at her home port Mariehamn in the Åland Islands of Finland. She was towed in 1944 to Stockholm to serve as a storage ship.\n\nIn 1948 the Erikson Line reentered the grain trade, and together with \"Pamir\" she participated in the last Great Grain Race in 1949 from Port Victoria around Cape Horn to Europe. Among her crew was Niels Jannasch who later became the director of Canada's Maritime Museum of the Atlantic. All told, \"Passat\" rounded Cape Horn 39 times.\n\nEdgar Erikson (son of Gustaf Erikson, who died in 1947) found he could no longer operate either \"Passat\" or \"Pamir\" at a profit, primarily due to changing regulations and union contracts governing employment aboard ships; the traditional 2-watch system on sailing ships was replaced by the 3-watch system in use on motor-ships, requiring more crew. In March 1951, Belgian shipbreakers paid £40,000 for both \"Passat\" and \"Pamir\".\n\nGerman shipowner Heinz Schliewen stepped in and bought both ships for conversion to freight carrying school ships (thus often erroneously referred to as sister ships). The two vessels were modernized at Kiel with refurbished quarters to accommodate merchant marine trainees, fitted with an auxiliary diesel engine, a refrigeration system for the galleys (precluding the need to carry live animals for fresh meat), modern communications equipment and water ballast tanks. After financial problems for the owner, a newly organized consortium of forty German shipowners purchased the ships. For the next five years \"Passat\" (and \"Pamir\") continued to sail between Europe and the east coast of South America, primarily to Argentina, but not around Cape Horn.\n\nIn 1957, a few weeks after the tragic loss of \"Pamir\" in mid-Atlantic and shortly after having been severely hit by a storm, \"Passat\" was decommissioned. She had almost experienced the same fate as the \"Pamir\" when her loose barley cargo shifted.\n\n\"Passat\" was purchased in 1959 by the Baltic Sea municipality of Lübeck and is now a youth hostel, venue, museum ship, and landmark moored at Travemünde, a borough of Lübeck in the German federal state of Schleswig-Holstein.\n\n\"Passat\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s true sister ship is the \"Peking\"; she has also survived as a museum ship and attraction at the South Street Seaport museum, harbor of New York in the United States. The \"Pamir\" has often been, and is still discussed as \"Passat\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s sister ship because both ships were owned and operated by the same consortium of German shipowners in the 1950s. The last eight four-masted barques ordered by Laeisz have been incorrectly called \"The Eight Sisters\" because of their similarity, including \"Pangani\", \"Petschili\", \"Pamir\", \"Passat\", \"Peking\", \"Priwall\", \"Pola\" (which never sailed under the Laeisz flag) and \"Padua\", now under the Russian flag as the training ship \"Kruzenshtern\". Of these eight ships, \"Pangani\", \"Petschili\", \"Pamir\" and \"Padua \" had no true sister ships.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2024348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024348", "title": "P.S.I.entology", "text": "P.S.I.entology\n\nP.S.I.entology was the only DVD release from the British band Pitchshifter. The DVD was the second release from PSI Records which is run by members Mark Clayden and J.S. Clayden. The DVD was released ostensibly as a \"thank you\" to the band's loyal fan base. The release prompted the band to reform after their 2003 split to take part in a seven date tour of Britain in October of 2004.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2024354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024354", "title": "Happy (Real Life album)", "text": "Happy (Real Life album)\n\nHappy is the fourth studio album by Australian new wave band Real Life. The album was released in October 1997. At the time of release, Real Life consisted of David Sterry, Danny Simcic, Allan Johnson and George Pappas. \n\nA 1999 limited edition release of \"Happy\" featured a bonus remix album called \"Happier\".\n\nTomas Mureika from AllMusic said \"The cover speaks volumes. The head that looks like a scary, puffy fish is indicative of the [band's] new direction... still very much in the synth pop vein, but now with a dangerous, dark gothic edge\" adding \"This is a dark, brooding record, but one which would craft the persona of Real Life for the next decade. Still very hook-laden, still very danceable -- but darker, more ominous and definitively more goth.\"\n"}
{"id": "2024355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024355", "title": "J. J. Ferris", "text": "J. J. Ferris\n\nJohn James Ferris (21 May 1867 – 17 November 1900), a left-arm swing bowler, was one of the few cricketers to play Test cricket for more than one country.\n\nBorn in Sydney, Australia, Ferris made his first-class debut for New South Wales against Alfred Shaw's touring English team on his home ground in 1886/87. He took seven wickets in the match, including five in the second innings, and after several more good displays was selected for the first Test, also at Sydney. The England first innings was a disaster as they collapsed to what remains their lowest Test total of 45 all out, Ferris bowling unchanged with Charlie Turner, but despite his nine wickets in the game England, inspired by Billy Barnes' second-innings 6–28, scraped to a 13-run win.\n\nFerris took another nine-wicket haul in the second Test, but again England was victorious, though in the only Test of the 1887/88 tour he could manage \"only\" six as the Englishmen came out on top yet again. He went with the Australians to England in 1888, and at Lord's for the first time in his career playing in a winning Test side, his partnership with Turner accounting for no less than eighteen England wickets as Australia recorded a 61-run win. The Ashes remained in England, however, as the home side won the other two Tests. In 1889 Ferris was named as one of the first Wisden Cricketers of the Year.\n\nHe went to England again in 1890, taking 13 wickets in another series defeat and no less than 186 in the season as a whole, but then moved there permanently, playing a single Test for his adopted country against South Africa in 1891/92. Coincidentally, his former Australian teammate Billy Murdoch also made his first England appearance in this match, which was not given Test status until some time later. Ferris' performance helped crush the home side by an innings and 189 runs, but it was to prove his final international appearance. He had taken 61 Test wickets at an average of just 12.70; only George Lohmann had a better career average.\n\nFerris played several seasons of county cricket (1892–1895) with Gloucestershire, for whom he scored his only hundred in 1893 but was otherwise something of a failure. At the end of his career, he appeared in a single Sheffield Shield match for South Australia in 1895/96, opening the batting but making nought, then finally in 1897/98 in two more games for New South Wales. In his last match, he made a half-century but did not bowl a single ball.\nFerris enlisted in the British Army for the Second Boer War, but died at Durban, South Africa at the age of 33.\n\nIt was reported, and for many years believed, that Ferris died from typhoid, or “enteric fever” but recent research by Max Bonnell established that he died suddenly after a seizure while travelling on a tram, shortly after his dishonourable discharge from the army. The reasons for his discharge, and the precise cause of his death, are not known.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2024364", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024364", "title": "Mykonos restaurant assassinations", "text": "Mykonos restaurant assassinations\n\nIn the Mykonos restaurant assassinations (Persian: ترور رستوران میکونوس, also the \"Mykonos Incident\"), Iranian-Kurdish opposition leaders Sadegh Sharafkandi, Fattah Abdoli, Homayoun Ardalan and their translator Nouri Dehkordi, were assassinated at the Mykonos Greek restaurant in Berlin, Germany on 17 September 1992. The assassination took place during the KDPI insurgency (1989–96), as part of the general Kurdish separatism in Iran. The assassins were believed by German courts to have links to Iranian intelligence.\n\nSharafkandi, Abdoli, Ardalan and Dehkordi were murdered in a mafia-style attack at the Mykonos Greek restaurant located on Prager Strasse in Berlin at about 11 pm on 17 September 1992. Three victims died instantly, while the fourth died at a hospital. In the same restaurant a meeting was scheduled of Ingvar Carlsson, a two-term Prime Minister of Sweden and leader of the Swedish Social Democratic Party, Mona Sahlin, the secretary of the Swedish Social Democratic Party and Pierre Schori, the former Swedish State Secretary for Foreign Affairs. Due to a telephone call to Ingvar Carlsson from Carl Bildt, the then-current Prime Minister of Sweden, who urged Carlsson to immediately return to Sweden due to the alleged urgent state of the Swedish economy, all three flew back to Sweden the same day and thus probably escaped being assassinated as well. \n\nSharafkandi, Abdoli and Ardalan were buried in the Père Lachaise Cemetery, in Paris.\nThe trial began in October 1993. In the trial the German court found Kazem Darabi, an Iranian who worked as a grocer in Berlin, Abdolraham Banihashemi, an Iranian intelligence officer, and Lebanese Abbas Hossein Rhayel, guilty of murder and sentenced them to life in prison. Two other Lebanese, Youssef Amin and Mohamed Atris, were convicted of being accessories to murder. A dissident ex-President of Iran Abolhassan Banisadr, who fled the country in 1981 after being impeached and has not returned since, testified as a witness during the trial and told the court that the killings had been personally ordered by Ayatollah Ali Khamenei and then-president Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani. There was also a getaway driver named Farajollah Haider (also known as Abu Ja'far).\n\nIranian officials, however, categorically denied their involvement in the incident. The then-speaker of the Iranian Parliament Ali Akbar Nategh-Nouri dismissed the ruling as being political, untrue and unsubstantiated. \n\nIn its 10 April 1997 ruling, the court issued an international arrest warrant for Iranian intelligence minister Ali Fallahian after declaring that the assassination had been ordered by him with knowledge of Khamenei and Rafsanjani. This led to a diplomatic crisis between the government of Iran and those of several European countries lasting until November 1997. Despite international and domestic protests, Darabi and Rhayel were released from prison on 10 December 2007 and deported back to their home countries.\n\nThe events surrounding the Mykonos restaurant assassinations and subsequent trial were adapted into a non-fiction story by Roya Hakakian in her book \"Assassins of the Turquoise Palace\" in 2011.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2024367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024367", "title": "Sunstone", "text": "Sunstone\n\nSunstone is a plagioclase feldspar, which when viewed from certain directions exhibits a spangled appearance. It has been found in Southern Norway, Sweden, various United States localities and on some beaches along the midcoast of South Australia.\n\nThe optical effect appears to be due to reflections from inclusions of red copper, in the form of minute scales, which are hexagonal, rhombic, or irregular in shape, and are disposed parallel to the principal cleavage-plane. These inclusions give the stone an appearance something like that of aventurine, hence sunstone is known also as \"aventurine-feldspar\". The optical effect called schiller and the color in Oregon Sunstone is due to copper. The middle part of this crystal sparkles, and usually the color is darkest in the middle and becomes lighter toward the outer edges.\n\nThe feldspar which usually displays the aventurine appearance is oligoclase, though the effect is sometimes seen in orthoclase: hence two kinds of sunstone are distinguished as \"oligoclase sunstone\" and \"orthoclase sunstone\".\n\nSunstone was not popular until recently. Previously the best-known locality being Tvedestrand, near Arendal, in south Norway, where masses of the sunstone occur embedded in a vein of quartz running through gneiss.\n\nOther locations include near Lake Baikal in Siberia, and several United States localities—notably at Middletown Township, Delaware County, Pennsylvania; Plush, Oregon; and Statesville, North Carolina.\n\nThe \"orthoclase sunstone\" variant has been found near Crown Point and at several other localities in New York, as also at Glen Riddle in Delaware County, Pennsylvania, and at Amelia Courthouse, Amelia County, Virginia.\n\nSunstone is also found in Pleistocene basalt flows at Sunstone Knoll in Millard County, Utah.\n\nIn the early 2000s, a new variety of red or green gemstone resembling sunstone and known as \"Andesine\" appeared in the gem market. After much controversy and debate, most of these gemstones, allegedly sourced from China, were subsequently discovered to have been artificially colored by a copper diffusion process. A Tibetan source of bona fide (untreated) red andesine, however, was eventually verified by a number of independent groups of well-respected gemologists.\n\nA variety known as \"Oregon sunstone\" is found in Harney County, Oregon and in eastern Lake County north of Plush. Oregon Sunstone contains elemental copper. Oregon Sunstone is unique in that crystals can be quite large. The copper leads to variant color within some stones, where turning one stone will result in manifold hues: the more copper within the stone, the darker the complexion.\n\nOn August 4, 1987, the Oregon State Legislature designated Oregon Sunstone as its state gemstone by joint resolution.\n\n"}
{"id": "2024369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024369", "title": "LMS Ivatt Class 4", "text": "LMS Ivatt Class 4\n\nThe LMS Ivatt Class 4 2-6-0 is a class of steam locomotive primarily designed for medium freight work but also widely used on secondary passenger services. The London Midland and Scottish Railway (LMS) built 162 of this type between 1947 and 1952, but only three were built by the LMS before nationalisation in 1948. Designed by H.G. Ivatt, they were classified 4F by the LMS and 4MT by BR. In BR days they were used extensively across the system, being prevalent on the London Midland region and to a lesser extent elsewhere, notably on the Midland and Great Northern Joint Railway, an East Anglian line that had previously been joint owned by the LMS and LNER, where they became the dominant locomotive type. They were also used for a short period on the Somerset and Dorset Joint Railway, but were quickly transferred elsewhere, never to return, because of poor steaming on the line's long and steep gradients – this was before modifications were made to the design which improved steaming notably.\n\nThe first three engines were numbered 3000–3002 by the LMS, but became 43000–43002 when renumbered by BR – 40000 was added to the running number to indicate an ex-LMS locomotive. The remaining 159, built by BR, continued the number sequence: 43003–43161. Construction was divided between different locations, 75 were completed at Horwich Works, 50 at Doncaster Works and 37 at Darlington Works. The class was also sometimes called \"mucky ducks\" or \"doodlebugs\" or even \"flying pigs\".\n\nThe design was noted for its American looks – the running-plates were positioned at a high level and a gap left ahead of the cylinders. Because of this many locomotive enthusiasts considered it to be the ugliest British locomotive produced, especially those locomotives outshopped with double chimneys (the first 50 engines); however, these gave poor performance and were quickly replaced with single chimneys. The locomotives also incorporated new mechanical features intended to reduce maintenance costs. The utilitarian appearance was a deliberate design decision as there are sketches which show the locomotive with conventional curved running plates.\n\nThe BR Standard Class 4 2-6-0 was based on this design. Its looks were improved somewhat by the re-design of the outside foot-plating, to include a sloping plate to fill the gap ahead of the cylinders.\n\n\nThe class were withdrawn between 1963 and 1968.\n\nOnly one example survived into preservation, No 43106, the final member of the class in service, which was based at Lostock Hall depot, near Preston. Its last operational turn was just before Easter in 1968, but its last turn was interrupted by a derailment in Colne Goods Yard. Since 43106 had already been selected as the best of the remaining small group, a 'search party' was despatched on Easter Tuesday to survey the damage. It was felt that damage was so minimal the prospective owners would investigate the ease of a repair. \nOn its return to Lostock Hall, the locomotive was repaired by fitters from Carnforth, that repair exists to this day. However it derailed again at Lostock Hall when being prepared for a test run in late July.\nIt was steamed for the final time by British Railways on 1 August 1968 and departed at about 15:30 with one member of its new owning consortium on board. This was only after lengthy discussions to get the locomotive moved in live steam before 4 August, the end of steam operation on BR. The journey was carefully routed to limit movement 'under the wires', via Frodsham, Chester and Shrewsbury. The journey through the West Midlands continued via Wolverhampton High Level towards Bescot and Pleck Junction, where after a movement around a triangular junction to ensure it arrived the 'right way round' the light engine continued on to Stourbridge Junction where it was stabled overnight in the exchange sidings, now part of the extensive car park.\nOn 2 August it continued on to its new life in preservation on the Severn Valley Railway appearing on the front page of the Shropshire Journal with three of its new owners giving it a much needed clean. It is affectionately known as the \"Flying Pig\", although many railwaymen referred to the Ivatt 4s as Doodlebugs.\n\nBetween 1975 and 1983 no 43106 saw use on the mainline hauling railtours. In 1975 it attended the Rail 150 celebrations in Shildon & in 1980 it took part in the Rocket 150 celebrations at Rainhill. On a small number of occasions between 1980 and 1983 the engine saw use on a limited number of railtours, on some occasions double heading with fellow SVR based engines including: 5000, 7812 Erlestoke Manor & 80079.\n\nA major overhaul of the locomotive was completed in 2009 and it is currently operational after having damage repaired that it received during a derailment at Hampton Loade soon after returning to service. It received further repairs to the boiler in 2013 which included a new boiler ticket.\n\nA OO gauge model of 43106 is produced by Bachmann Branchline, who also produce many other models of the Class 4, as well as the LMS Ivatt Class 2 2-6-0 and LMS Ivatt Class 2 2-6-2T.\n\n"}
{"id": "2024371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024371", "title": "Paul Mooney (comedian)", "text": "Paul Mooney (comedian)\n\nPaul Gladney (born August 4, 1941), better known by the stage name Paul Mooney, is an American comedian, writer, social critic, and television and film actor. He is best known for his appearances on \"Chappelle's Show\" and as a writer for comedian Richard Pryor.\n\nMooney was born in 1941 in Shreveport, Louisiana, and moved to Oakland, California, seven years later. His parents are George Gladney and LaVoya Ealy. Mooney was raised primarily by his grandmother Aimay Ealy, known among the family as \"Mama\". Ealy coined the nickname \"Mooney\" after the original \"Scarface\" (1932) actor Paul Muni.\n\nMooney became a ringmaster with the Gatti-Charles Circus. During his stint as ringmaster, he always found himself writing comedy and telling jokes, which later helped Mooney land his first professional work as a writer for Richard Pryor.\n\nMooney wrote some of Pryor's routines for his appearance on \"Saturday Night Live\", co-wrote his material for the \"\", \"Bicentennial Nigger\", and \"Is It Something I Said\" albums, and Pryor's film \"Jo Jo Dancer, Your Life Is Calling\". As the head writer for \"The Richard Pryor Show\", he gave many young comics, such as Robin Williams, Sandra Bernhard, Marsha Warfield, John Witherspoon, and Tim Reid, their first break into show business.\n\nMooney also wrote for Redd Foxx's \"Sanford and Son\" and \"Good Times\", acted in several cult classics including \"Which Way Is Up?\", \"Bustin' Loose\", \"Hollywood Shuffle\", and portrayed singer/songwriter Sam Cooke in \"The Buddy Holly Story\".\n\nHe was the head writer for the first year of Fox's \"In Living Color\", inspiring the character Homey D. Clown, played by Damon Wayans. Mooney later went on to play Wayans' father in the Spike Lee film \"Bamboozled\" as the comedian Junebug.\n\nMooney initially appeared in the sketches \"Ask a Black Dude\" and \"Mooney at the Movies\" on Comedy Central's \"Chappelle's Show\". He later appeared as Negrodamus, an African American version of Nostradamus. As Negrodamus, Mooney ad-libbed the \"answers to life's most unsolvable mysteries\" such as \"Why do white people love Wayne Brady?\" (Answer: \"Because Wayne Brady makes Bryant Gumbel look like Malcolm X.\") Mooney was planning to reprise his role as Negrodamus in the third season of the \"Chappelle's Show\", before Dave Chappelle left the show due to stress, and it ended suddenly.\n\nIn 2006, Paul Mooney hosted the BET tribute to Black History Month titled \"25 Most @#%! Moments in Black History\". In this show, he narrated some of the most shameful incidents involving African Americans since 1980. The top 25 moments included incidents involving Marion Barry, Terrell Owens, Wilson Goode, Michael Jackson, Flavor Flav, Whitney Houston, and Tupac Shakur.\n\nIn 2007, Mooney released his first book, the memoir \"Black is the New White\".\n\nIn November 2014, Paul's brother announced that Mooney has prostate cancer. Mooney still continues to tour, performing his stand-up comedy act.\n\nMuch of Mooney's material is based on the subject of racism in the United States.\nIn September 2005, Mooney performed a segment at the 2005 BET Comedy Awards called the \"Nigga Wake Up Call Award\", in which he jokingly presents an award to African American celebrities who neglected their blackness to try and blend in with caucasians, only to find out they're still a \"nigga\" in their eyes. The \"nominees\" included Michael Jackson, Oprah Winfrey, Lil' Kim, and Diana Ross. Mooney awarded Ross and made numerous jokes about Ross' 2002 arrest for DUI. According to people who were in attendance, Mooney also made light of the death of Ross' ex-husband Arne Næss Jr., who fell while mountain climbing in 2004. Tracee Ellis Ross, Ross's daughter and Næss's stepdaughter, was also in attendance. She reportedly was so offended and embarrassed that she left the room and was comforted by host Steve Harvey. Backstage in the press room, Mooney was asked if he felt his performance was \"over the top\". Mooney replied: \n\nWhen Mooney was informed that Tracee Ellis Ross was in the audience, he stated: \n\nThe majority of Mooney's performance was edited out of the televised broadcast and not aired.\n\nOn November 26, 2006, Mooney appeared on CNN and talked about how he would stop using the word \"nigga\" due to Michael Richards' outbursts on stage at the Laugh Factory. He referred to Richards as having become \"his Dr. Phil\" and \"cured\" him of the use of the epithet. Mooney also said, \"We're gonna stop using the n-word. I'm gonna stop using it. I'm not gonna use it again and I'm not gonna use the b-word. And we're gonna put an end to the n-word. Just say no to the n-word. We want all human beings throughout the world to stop using the n-word.\"\n\nOn November 30, Mooney elaborated upon these remarks from his appearance on CNN as a guest of Farai Chideya on the National Public Radio program \"News & Notes\". He declared that he would convene a conference on this controversial subject in the near future, as well as perform his first \"n-free\" comedy in the upcoming days.\n\nThat show, which he performed at the Lincoln Theater following a set by Dick Gregory, took place on December 2, 2006. Mooney almost made it through his entire set—about an hour of jokes—before he mistakenly used the word in a routine on O.J. Simpson. He ran off stage covering his face in his hands, and walked back on a few moments later saying, \"I'm really going to get it now. This is probably already on the Internet.\" On the BET special \"25 Events that Mis-Shaped Black America\", Mooney reiterated that he was no longer using the word. He was quoted as saying, \"I am no longer going to use the n-word. Instead of saying 'What's up my nigga,' say 'What's up my Michael Richards.'\" At a summit with Jesse Jackson, Reverend Al Sharpton, and Richards, Mooney forgave Richards.\n\nAt a performance in West Nyack, New York, on April 20, 2013—five days after the Boston Marathon bombing—Mooney allegedly joked, \"white people in Boston deserved what they got and (it was) OK to lose a few limbs... as long as no blacks got hurt it was OK.\" Numerous audience members stormed out and the show's producer \"Levity Live Comedy Club\" cancelled the remaining shows. On April 23, Mooney appeared on the \"Opie and Anthony Show\" on Sirius XM Satellite Radio, and denied he had made the comments as reported, particularly denying he said that \"white people deserved to be blown up.\"\n\n\n\nIn his book \"Black Is the New White\", Mooney talks about his partnership with Richard Pryor, from their first meeting to Pryor's death in 2005. Mooney reflects on his childhood and some of the most notorious moments in his life, including organizing a performers' strike on the Comedy Store and publicly giving up the n-word after Michael Richards' onstage outburst. It features a foreword written by Dave Chappelle.\n"}
{"id": "2024376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024376", "title": "Autocue", "text": "Autocue\n\nAutocue is a UK based manufacturer of teleprompter systems. The company was founded in 1955 and licensed its first on-camera teleprompter, based on a patent by Jess Oppenheimer, in 1962. Its products are used by journalists, presenters, politicians and video production staff in almost every country in the world. In Dutch, \"autocue\" became a genericized trademark as there is no Dutch word for teleprompter.\n\nPrompting began with Jess Oppenheimer, a writer, producer and director on the TV show \"I Love Lucy\" in the early 1950s. To solve the problem of the actors forgetting their lines, he developed a prompting system. Oppenheimer took out a patent on the system. He licensed the patent to the teleprompting company Autocue in 1955. Meanwhile, a separate entity, QTV, was established in the US. Both companies started by renting teleprompting equipment to studios and these were the first \"on-camera\" teleprompters in the world.\n\nOppenheimer's paper roll system survived until 1969 when Autocue introduced the first closed-circuit prompter. This used a closed-circuit camera system to screen a live video of a scrolling paper script, and display the image on a monitor attached to the front of the camera. Use of a two-way mirror system allowed the script image to be reflected onto a sheet of glass in front of the camera lens, meaning that the presenters were able to read their lines straight from the script while looking directly into the camera. The mirror system meant that the image of the script was not visible to the main camera lens, and indeed this is still the way that most teleprompting systems operate. QTV followed shortly afterwards with similar technology. In the 1970s both companies started selling hardware in addition to maintaining their rental operations.\n\nIn 1984, QTV acquired Autocue and retained the two brands in their respective regions. The following year, the newly formed Autocue Group released a computer-driven prompting system, ScriptNet. At the same time the first newsroom computer systems were beginning to appear in television stations.\n\nAutocue and QTV were also interested in digital prompting, leading to the development of its own scriptwriting and running order package. This package is used by many newsrooms, conferences, sitcoms, major drama productions, and more. This system worked on an early version of Microsoft Windows, and was named WinCue.\n\nIn 1994, the Autocue Group created the first flat screen prompters.\n\nThe ability to receive, index and process stories from news agency wires was an early addition. Another requirement was the ability to control multiple playout devices, such as videotape machines and character generators, from a central running order. The Autocue Group accordingly developed its own automation system, as applicable to programme playout as to news. This was followed by the ability to handle media as well as words. Following a project with CNN, a wireless tablet-PC based system to effect and share script changes using ‘digital ink’ was added.\n\nIn 1998, a newsroom application company, DCM, based in Charlotte, North Carolina, was acquired to complement the existing newsroom product range. \n\nAutocue have since introduced an IP-based prompting system, QMaster/QBox, which allows prompting over a network over any distance.\n"}
{"id": "2024378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024378", "title": "Mykonos (disambiguation)", "text": "Mykonos (disambiguation)\n\nMykonos may refer to:\n"}
{"id": "2024379", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024379", "title": "Euphorbia amygdaloides", "text": "Euphorbia amygdaloides\n\nEuphorbia amygdaloides, the wood spurge, is a species of flowering plant in the family Euphorbiaceae, native to woodland locations in Europe, Turkey and the Caucasus. It is a bushy evergreen perennial, growing to a height of , with dark green slightly hairy leaves about long. The complex green-yellow inflorescence (cyathium), typical of \"Euphorbia\", appears in late spring and early summer.\n\nIt is among the few plants that thrive in the dry shade of trees, where it is used as groundcover. It spreads rapidly by underground rhizomes and can become invasive, though relatively easy to remove.\n\nOne form known is \"Euphorbia\" ‘Efanthia’. The subspecies \"E. amygdaloides\" subsp. \"robbiae\" , known as Mrs Robb's bonnet, is grown as a garden plant, and has gained the Royal Horticultural Society’s Award of Garden Merit.\n\nThe milky latex of the plant is toxic and can cause irritation on contact with the skin.\n"}
{"id": "2024405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024405", "title": "Expo (magazine)", "text": "Expo (magazine)\n\nExpo is a Swedish anti-racist magazine started in 1995 by Stieg Larsson. It is issued by the non-profit Expo Foundation (\"Stiftelsen Expo\"). The magazine, issued four times a year, contains investigative journalism focused on nationalist, racist, anti-democratic, anti-semitic, and far-right movements and organisations. The people responsible for \"Expo\" make no connections with specific organisations or political parties, but work together with individuals and organisations that share \"Expo\"'s platform. The chairman of the Expo foundation is Charles Westin. The magazine is headquartered in Stockholm.\n\nThe organisation has several parts. Expo Arkiv is an archive of far-right and anti-democratic events in Scandinavia. The archive is open to researchers, students, and individuals who need information. Expo Research is a research organisation whose members find and collect information on racist, anti-Semitic, and anti-democratic organisations in Sweden and Europe. The information comes from informants, defectors, public files, authorities, independent researchers, and so on.\n\nThe people responsible for \"Expo\" closely co-operate with \"Monitor\" in Norway and \"Searchlight\" in the UK. They also exchange information with groups and magazines such as \"Antifa Infoblatt\" in Germany, \"Reflexes\" and \"CRIDA\" in France, \"Tun Balalaika\" in Russia, and \"Nigdy Wiecej\" in Poland, as well as Institute for Research and Education on Human Rights (IREHR) and Center for New Community (CNC) in the United States.\n\n\"Expo\" became widely known in Sweden in June 1996 following a string of threats and attacks directed against companies printing and selling the magazine, and organisations supporting it. The words \"Inget stöd till kommunist-Expo\" (\"No support for communist Expo\") were painted on the wall of the Moderate Party headquarters. In response, leading tabloid newspapers \"Aftonbladet\" and \"Expressen\" printed and distributed the June 1996 issue as a free supplement, with a circulation of around 800,000 copies.\n\nFinancial pressures in 1998 forced the people responsible for \"Expo\" to cease publication of the magazine and replace it with a newsletter. In 1999, \"Expo\" was restarted as a part of the magazine \"Svartvitt\". When \"Svartvitt\" shut down in 2003, \"Expo\" returned to publication as an independent magazine.\n\nThe editor-in-chief of \"Expo\" is Daniel Poohl. In 2014 the circulation of the magazine was 3,500 copies.\n\nOn Sunday 4 May 2016 the Expo photographer David Lagerlöf took an image of Tess Asplund, 42, with fist raised against the leadership of the Nordic Resistance Movement (NRM) in Borlänge, central Sweden. This went viral in the country and was widely reprinted in the international press, seen as an iconic moment in modern Swedish history.\n\nStieg Larsson, the author of the \"Millennium\" series of novels, was \"Expo\"'s co-founder and editor-in-chief from 1995 until his death in 2004. Larsson's political and journalistic background in far-left political activism including in \"Kommunistiska Arbetareförbundet\" (Communist Workers' League), and \"Internationalen\", led him to found the Expo Foundation, similar to the British Searchlight Foundation, with the aim of \"studying and mapping anti-democratic, right-wing extremist and racist tendencies in society\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2024408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024408", "title": "Sexual partner", "text": "Sexual partner\n\nSexual partners are people who engage in sexual activity together. The sexual partners can be of any number, sex, gender, or sexual orientation. The sexual partners may be in a committed relationship, either on an exclusive basis or not, or engage in the sexual activity on a casual basis. They may be on intimate terms (in which case they are often referred to as \"lovers\") or anonymous, as in the case of sex with a stranger, a one-night stand, or a prostitute. A person can be another person's sexual partner even if the sexual activity is illegal, socially taboo, or otherwise in breach of a trust or commitment. A person may have more than one sexual partner at any one time, either as polyamory, polygamy or in contravention of convention.The term \"sexual partner\" is usually applied to consensual sexual relations, not to those that are forced or result from duress, as in the case of rape. \n\nA sexual partner may or may not have equal power during a sexual activity; such sexual \"roles\" (which can sometimes be determined by personality type but can also be determined by a conscious choice by the individual to \"assume\" a particular \"role\") typically fall under various dominance/submission (D/s) categories.\nGenerally, a sexual partner is one with whom one engages in a sexual activity on a regular or ongoing basis.\n\nAn ex-sexual partner is a person with whom the other partner does not intend to engage in any further sexual activity; while a prospective sexual partner is one with whom the person has not previously engaged in any sexual activity ,but desires.\n"}
{"id": "2024409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024409", "title": "Natural History (magazine)", "text": "Natural History (magazine)\n\nNatural History is a natural history magazine published in the United States. The stated mission of the magazine is to promote public understanding and appreciation of nature and science.\n\nFounded in 1900 by the American Museum of Natural History, \"Natural History\" was first titled The American Museum Journal. In 2002, the magazine was purchased from the Museum by a new company, headed at the time by Charles Harris. As of 2013 the magazine is published in North Carolina by Howard Richman. There are 10 issues published annually.\n\nSince its founding, \"Natural History\" has chronicled the major expeditions and research findings by curators at the American Museum of Natural History and at other natural history museums and science centers. Stephen Jay Gould's column, \"This View of Life,\" was a regular feature of the magazine from 1974 until he retired the column in 2001. Other regular columnists and contributing authors include Neil deGrasse Tyson, Jared Diamond, Richard Dawkins, Norman D. Newell, and Thomas Nicholson.\n\n"}
{"id": "2024411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024411", "title": "Phrae", "text": "Phrae\n\nPhrae (; ) is a town (\"thesaban mueang\") in northern Thailand, capital of Phrae Province.\n\nThe town occupies \"tambon\" Nai Wiang of Mueang Phrae District. It has an area of nine kilometres and a population of 17,971 (2005). Phrae is 555 km north of Bangkok by road.\n\nPhrae lies on the Yom River, at an elevation of . The town is mostly built on the east side of the river, but some outlying parts are built on the west side of the river and are connected to the main part by bridges. There are hills both to the east and west of the town; the Phlueng Range to the east are higher, reaching about above sea level, whereas the Phi Pan Nam Range to the west are about above sea level.\n\nAt Phae Muang Phi, a few kilometres north of Phrae, there is an impressive landscape of mushroom rocks and distinctive pillars shaped by natural erosive action.\n\nPhrae has a tropical savanna climate (Köppen climate classification \"Aw\"). Winters are dry and warm. Temperatures rise until April, which is very hot with the average daily maximum at . The monsoon season runs from May through October, with heavy rain and somewhat cooler temperatures during the day, although nights remain warm.\n\nWat Chorm Sawan and Wat Phra That Cho Hae are two important Buddhist temples in Phrae. The latter is on a hill, nine km away from the town center.\n\nThe main road through Phrae is Route 101, which begins in Nan to the north, passes through Phrae, and leads to Sawankhalok, Sukhothai, and finally Kamphaeng Phet.\n\nPhrae Airport is a small airport in Mueang Mo, on the east side of town. It handles only domestic flights from Don Mueang (DMK).\n"}
{"id": "2024415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024415", "title": "Peking (ship)", "text": "Peking (ship)\n\nPeking is a steel-hulled four-masted barque. A so-called Flying P-Liner of the German company F. Laeisz, it was one of the last generation of cargo-carrying iron-hulled sailing ships used in the nitrate trade and wheat trade around Cape Horn.\n\n\"Peking\" was launched in February 1911 and left Hamburg for her maiden voyage to Valparaiso in May of the same year. After the outbreak of World War I she was interned at Valparaiso and remained in Chile for the duration of the war. Awarded to the Kingdom of Italy as war reparation she was sold back to her original owners, the Laeisz brothers, in January 1923. She remained in the nitrate trade until traffic through the Panama Canal proved quicker and more economical.\n\nIn 1932, she was sold for £6,250 to Shaftesbury Homes. She was first towed to Greenhithe, renamed \"Arethusa II\" and moored alongside the existing \"Arethusa I\". In July 1933, she was moved to a new permanent mooring off Upnor on the River Medway, where she served as a children's home and training school. She was officially \"opened\" by Prince George on 25 July 1933. During World War II she served in the Royal Navy as HMS \"Pekin\".\n\n\"Arethusa II\" was retired in 1974 and sold to Jack Aron as \"Peking\", for the South Street Seaport Museum in New York City, where she remained for the next four decades. However, the Seaport NYC did not see \"Peking\" as part of its long-term operational plans, and was planning to send vessel to the scrap yard. A 2012 offer to return the ship to Hamburg, where she was originally built, as a gift from the city of New York, was contingent upon raising an endowment in Germany to ensure the preservation of the vessel.\n\nIn November 2015 the 'Maritim Foundation' purchased the ship for US$ 100. \"Peking\" is intended to become part of the German Port Museum (\"Deutsches Hafenmuseum\") at \"Schuppen 52\" in Hamburg for which € 120 million of federal funds would be provided. She was taken to Caddell Dry Dock, Staten Island, on September 7, 2016, to spend the winter. On July 17, 2017, she was docked, and two days later, she was transported, at a cost of some €1 million, in the hold of the semi-submersible heavy-lift ship across the Atlantic, arriving on July 30, 2017 at Brunsbüttel.\n\nOn August 2, 2017, she was transferred to \"Peters Werft\" located at Wewelsfleth for a three-year refurbishment at estimated cost of €32 million. However, the cost was much more. The restoration included review of rigging, double floor steel plates, dismounting and remount of all masts, docking in dry-dock, renewal of the steel structure, removal of the cement that filled the lower of the hull, painting, wood work and overall refurbishment. The ship spent two times about two years in dry dock. \"Peking\" was refloated on September 7, 2018 with Primer paint Hull. Teak was reinstalled on deck. The ship was to be then transferred to Hamburg to the German Port Museum in 2020. Before the Museum being constructed since 2023 until 2025, Ship would stay shortly at Überseebrücke where she is visited by public in August 2020.\n\n\nNotes\n\nBibliography\n\n"}
{"id": "2024419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024419", "title": "Scotti (surname)", "text": "Scotti (surname)\n\nScotti is a surname of Italian origin. Notable persons with that surname include:\n"}
{"id": "2024425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024425", "title": "LMS Garratt", "text": "LMS Garratt\n\nThe London Midland and Scottish Railway (LMS) Garratt was a class of Garratt 2-6-0+0-6-2 steam locomotive designed for heavy freight. A total of 33 were built from 1927, making them the most numerous class of Garratt in Britain.\n\nAfter Grouping the LMS continued the Midland Railway's \"small engine policy\" of hauling trains using two or three locomotives of moderate power coupled together. This led to most of the Toton (Nottinghamshire)-Brent (London) coal trains being double-headed by 0-6-0 locomotives. It was realised that double heading was uneconomical so a Garratt locomotive was ordered from Beyer, Peacock and Company. However the LMS Derby design office insisted on the fitting of their standard axleboxes to the design. These axleboxes were barely adequate for the LMS Class 4F 0-6-0 locomotives, on which they frequently overheated, and were a major weakness on the LMS Garratts. They were also always heavy on coal and maintenance.\nThree locomotives were built in April 1927 and the remaining 30 were built in the period August to November 1930. All were built with straight sided bunkers but from 1931 all except the first two of the 1927 trio were fitted with revolving coal bunkers. These were conical in shape and were revolved and oscillated by means of a small 2-cylinder steam engine. The revolving bunkers prevented coal dust from entering the cab and the oscillation facility made them self-trimming.\n\nThe 1927 trio were numbered 4997–4999, and the 1930 batch from 4967 to 4996. They were later renumbered 7967–7999 in the same order to make way for the new \"Black 5’s\" . British Railways added 40000 to their numbers.\nThe roundhouses at Toton MPD had to have extra length Garratt roads to accommodate them. Mostly used for heavy coal trains, they later found other uses as well. Others were allocated to Wellingborough (depot code 45A where 15 locomotives were located in the 1950s) and Hasland near Chesterfield. Trains for Manchester were generally routed along the Hope Valley Line and the Garratts normally came off their trains at the Gowhole freight sidings just south of Chinley. A few would work the Ambergate to Pye Bridge Line using the north curve at Ambergate, but only as far as Rowsley, where the train would be split. This was normal for goods trains because of the danger of couplings breaking on the climb to Peak Forest. In addition, although they had ample tractive effort to climb the gradient, in the days before goods wagon trains had continuous brakes there were problems on the way down into Chinley. On an early attempt, the loco was inspected at Heaton Mersey and it was found that all of its brake blocks had melted.\n\nThe class was withdrawn between June 1955 and April 1958. None survived into preservation.\nThe Rosebud Kitmaster company produced an unpowered polystyrene injection moulded 00 scale model, which went on sale in March 1961. In late 1962, the Kitmaster brand was sold by its parent company (Rosebud Dolls) to Airfix, who transferred the moulding tools to their own factory; they re-introduced some of the former Kitmaster range, but the Garratt model was not among them. The moulding tools for this locomotive were scrapped in 1982.\nHeljan was commissioned by Hattons of Liverpool to produce a model in OO gauge which became the manufacturer's first UK outline OO gauge steam locomotive model.\n\n"}
{"id": "2024427", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024427", "title": "Cohort analysis", "text": "Cohort analysis\n\nCohort analysis is a subset of behavioral analytics that takes the data from a given data set (e.g. an EMRS, an e-commerce platform, web application, or online game) and rather than looking at all users as one unit, it breaks them into related groups for analysis. These related groups, or cohorts, usually share common characteristics or experiences within a defined time-span. Cohort analysis allows a company to “see patterns clearly across the life-cycle of a customer (or user), rather than slicing across all customers blindly without accounting for the natural cycle that a customer undergoes.” By seeing these patterns of time, a company can adapt and tailor its service to those specific cohorts. While cohort analysis is sometimes associated with a cohort study, they are different and should not be viewed as one and the same. Cohort analysis is specifically the analysis of cohorts in regards to big data and business analytics, while in cohort study, data is broken down into similar groups.\n\nThe goal of a business analytics tool is to analyze and present actionable information. In order for a company to act on such information it must be relevant to the situation under analysis. A database full of thousands or even millions of entries of all user data makes it tough to gain actionable data, as that data spans many different categories and time periods. Actionable cohort analysis allows for the ability to drill down to the users of each specific cohort to gain a better understanding of their behaviors, such as if users checked out, and how much did they pay. In cohort analysis \"each new group [cohort] provides the opportunity to start with a fresh set of users,\" allowing the company to look at only the data that is relevant to the current query and act on it.\n\nIn eCommerce, a firm may only be interested in customers who signed up in the last two weeks and who made a purchase, which is an example of a specific cohort. A software developer may only care about the data from users who sign up after a certain upgrade, or who use certain features of the platform.\n\nAn example of cohort analysis of gamers on a certain platform: Expert gamers, cohort 1, will care more about advanced features and lag time compared to new sign-ups, cohort 2. With these two cohorts determined, and the analysis run, the gaming company would be presented with a visual representation of the data specific to the two cohorts. It could then see that a slight lag in load times has been translating into a significant loss of revenue from advanced gamers, while new sign-ups have not even noticed the lag. Had the company simply looked at its overall revenue reports for all customers, it would not have been able to see the differences between these two cohorts. Cohort analysis allows a company to pick up on patterns and trends and make the changes necessary to keep both advanced and new gamers happy.\n\n\"An actionable metric is one that ties specific and repeatable actions to observed results [like user registration, or checkout]. The opposite of actionable metrics are vanity metrics (like web hits or number of downloads) which only serve to document the current state of the product but offer no insight into how we got here or what to do next.\" Without actionable analytics the information that is being presented may not have any practical application, as the only data points represent vanity metrics that do not translate into any specific outcome. While it is useful for a company to know how many people are on their site, that metric is useless on its own. For it to be actionable it needs to relate a \"repeatable action to [an] observed result\".\n\nIn order to perform a proper cohort analysis, there are four main stages:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2024429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024429", "title": "Some Assembly Required (Buffy the Vampire Slayer)", "text": "Some Assembly Required (Buffy the Vampire Slayer)\n\n\"Some Assembly Required\" is episode two of season two of \"Buffy the Vampire Slayer\". It was written by staff writer Ty King and directed by Bruce Seth Green. The narrative follows the Scooby Gang as they find body parts all over Sunnydale High School. They follow the trail of the clues to find something more gruesome. Meanwhile, Buffy confronts Angel about their relationship, Willow admits that she loves Xander to Buffy and Ms. Calendar and Giles' romance begins to blossom, as he asks her on a date. There's only one problem: their date is interrupted by Eric and his sinister plans.\n\nBuffy is waiting for a vampire to rise when she falls into an open grave. A body was apparently dragged out from it earlier.\n\nThe next day, Buffy and Xander catch Giles practicing to ask Ms. Calendar out on a date. Giles hears Buffy's findings at the cemetery and fears someone is raising an army of zombies. Buffy goes to find Willow, who is signing up for the science fair and talking to Chris, the reigning champ. As Buffy approaches, Chris' friend Eric takes pictures of girls passing by.\n\nWillow finds that the girl missing from the open grave, Meredith Todd, died in a car accident. That night, Cordelia is walking to her car when she senses that someone is following her. She hides in a dumpster and when she thinks it is safe to get out, she encounters Angel. He starts to help her out when they find an arm and other body parts inside the dumpster.\n\nThe Scoobies return to the library to find a frightened Cordelia clinging to Angel. They decide to abandon Giles' zombie theory and search the lockers of science students. They find medical books and an article on Meredith Todd in Chris' locker and a jigsaw of female body parts in Eric's locker.\n\nIn a secret lab, Chris and Eric are almost finished assembling a girl's body, except for the head. Eric lines up three candidates: Buffy, Willow and Cordelia. Chris' brother Daryl comes out from the shadows, showing a grotesque appearance, and chooses Cordelia. Daryl was a popular athlete who died in a hiking accident years ago, but he was revived by his brother and promised a stay-at-home companion.\n\nThe next day, Giles stumbles as he tries to ask Ms. Calendar out, but she ends up asking him to the football game instead. Meanwhile, Buffy and her friends discover that Chris and Eric must actually kill a girl to gain the head they need.\n\nBuffy finds a lab in Chris' house and discovers their target. In the locker room, Cordelia is getting ready when Chris comes up behind her. Eric places a bag over her head, but is fought off by Buffy. After Cordelia leaves, Chris tells Buffy about Daryl. They head back to his house, only to find Daryl gone.\n\nAs Cordelia goes to a water fountain, Daryl drags her away. He and Eric head to an abandoned building, where Eric plans to behead her. At the game, Buffy and Chris realize they arrived too late, but Chris tells her where to find Eric.\n\nMeanwhile, Willow and Xander crash Giles' date. Chris tells them what happened, while Buffy rushes to the old science lab. In the ensuing fight, a burner is knocked over and starts a fire. Xander arrives with the rest of the gang and gets Cordelia out. Giles and Willow drag out an unconscious Eric. As Daryl is about to kill Buffy, Chris stops him. Daryl decides to die beside the unfinished girl's body while everyone else escapes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2024434", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024434", "title": "Singaporean cuisine", "text": "Singaporean cuisine\n\nSingaporean cuisine encompasses the diverse elements of culinary culture of Singapore — derived from several ethnic groups, which have developed through centuries of political, economic, and social changes of this cosmopolitan city state island. \n\nInfluences include the cuisines of the Malays, the Chinese and the Indians as well as Indonesian, Peranakan and Western traditions (particularly English and Portuguese-influenced Eurasian, known as Kristang). Influences from neighbouring regions such as Japan, Korea, and Thailand are also majorly present.\n\nIn Singapore, food is viewed as crucial to its national identity and a unifying cultural thread. Singaporean literature declares eating a national pastime and food a national obsession. Food is a frequent topic of conversation among Singaporeans. Religious dietary strictures do exist; Muslims do not eat pork and Hindus do not eat beef, and there is also a significant group of vegetarians/vegans. People from different communities often eat together, while being mindful of each other's culture and choosing food that is acceptable for all.\n\nOther than local Singaporean cuisine, it is also common in Singapore to find restaurants specialising in cuisine from a great variety of countries around the world.\n\nWhen dining out, Singaporeans often eat at hawker centres, coffee shops or food courts rather than restaurants, due to convenience, a wider range of options and affordability. These hawker centres are widespread, cheap and usually feature dozens of stalls in a single complex, with each stall offering its own speciality dishes. Well-known hawker centres among tourists include Telok Ayer Market, Lau Pa Sat and Newton Food Centre. Coffee shops are non-air conditioned versions of food courts and are commonly found island-wide, usually at the bottom of blocks of HDB flats. Hawker centres are the place where people can experience all kinds of different cultural food in one place. Hawker centres, or open air food courts, have come to define Singaporean food culture. Popular markets like Old Airport Road Food Centre in Geylang, Golden Mile Food Centre on Beach Road and Maxwell Road Food Centre in Chinatown offer the best of Chinese, Malaysian and Indian cooking, melded into foods that are uniquely Singaporean.\n\nIn 2016, Hong Kong Soya Sauce Chicken Rice and Noodle and Hill Street Tai Hwa Pork Noodle became the first two street food locations in the world to be awarded a Michelin star. The former also gained the title of the world's \"cheapest Michelin-starred meal\".\n\nIn 2018, Singapore hawker culture was nominated by Singapore's National Heritage Board (NHB), National Environment Agency and Federation of Merchants' Associations Singapore for inscription into Unesco's Representative List of the Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity\n\nSingaporean food is a significant cultural attraction for tourists and visitors. Some Singaporean dishes have become internationally known. In 2011, four Singaporean dishes were included in the list of 'World's 50 Most Delicious Foods (Readers' Pick)' – a worldwide online poll by 35,000 people held by CNN International. They are Hainanese chicken rice (13th), chili crab (29th), Katong Laksa (44th) and roti prata (45th).\n\nAnthony Bourdain brought international attention to local food available in hawker centres on his show, \"\". He featured Tian Tian Chicken Rice and Maxwell Food Centre on the programme. Bourdain has also publicly spoken about hoping to feature four Singaporean dishes in his upcoming food hall in New York City.\n\nGordon Ramsay participated in a 'Hawker Heroes Challenge' held in Singapore in 2013, in which each competitor made three dishes. Ramsay's chili crab was voted the best, but he lost on the other two dishes. Losing to Ryan Koh representing 328 Katong Laksa and Foo Kui Lian representing Tian Tian Chicken Rice, he graciously accepted defeat. He mentioned being in absolute awe of the hawkers, and was humbled by how they welcomed him into their kitchens and taught him to cook.\n\nYouTube personality Mike Chen, better known by his username StrictlyDumpling, has created several videos bringing attention to local cuisine on his channel. Over the course of 8 videos he highlighted Singaporean street food, hawker centres, local buffets and restaurants. These videos have a combined view count of over 5.5 million views. \n\nSingaporean cuisine has been promoted as a tourist attraction by the Singapore Tourism Board. The Singapore Food Festival, held every year in July, is a celebration of Singapore's cuisine. The Overseas Singaporean Unit also organises Singapore Day in major cities around the world as a platform for Singaporeans living abroad. One of Singapore Day's major draws is the local Singaporean hawker food, which is prepared on-site by well-known hawkers specially flown in for the event.\n\nSingapore is geographically located in between the Pacific and Indian oceans but it also has the shape of a peninsula and an island at the same time, where various cultures and trades used to and continue to occur. Indonesia is located to the south, Thailand, China, the Philippines and Malaysia are located to the north and India is located to the west. Since Singapore's position is between various Asian countries, there is a diversity in food and culture. \"When Stamford Raffles sought to convert Singapore into a trading post for the East India Company in 1819, immigrants from China, Malaya, India, Indonesia, Europe, the United States and the Middle East flocked to the island. The culture of Singapore is made up of diverse influences from different continents and countries. This led Singapore cuisine to be mixed-cultural society food. Like many other Asian countries, Singapore experienced a period of colonisation. Singapore used to be colonised by Britain from the early 19th century to the mid-20th century, and like most of Asian countries did, they were ruled by Japan during World War 2. Colonisation of Japan also influenced Singaporean cuisine. For instance, \"yee sang\", which Singaporean Chinese enjoy eating during the Lunar New Year, includes raw fish, which is a rare ingredient to put in dishes except for Japanese or Korean dishes.\n\nA common greeting for the Singaporean Chinese is the question \"Have you eaten?\", asked in the various Chinese dialects. It is one way to express a greeting to another person. It is also possible to assume that this is how Singaporeans think about the meal and food. Since Singapore is a mixed cultural nation there is a diverse range of people who might have different and restricted diets, such as Muslims and Hindus. Since Singapore is influenced by so many different regions, religion, and areas, there are also many events or anniversaries. During the Lunar New Year, people eat nian gao, which is originally from China, and is traditionally eaten around the Chinese New Year. Singapore's cuisine is as diverse as its culture. It is an extension of Malay cuisine but influenced by the Chinese – not to mention the Indians, Arabs, British and other settlers who have contributed to making Singapore one of the world's most important trading ports.\n\nSingaporean food can be divided into five types: meat, seafood, rice, noodles, and dessert or snacks. Singapore is especially renowned for its seafood. Chili crab and black pepper crab are two quintessential dishes that dominate the scene and are greatly recommended to tourists. Another favourite is sambal stingray. In the meat category, Hainanese chicken rice is the most popular dish. Essentially, it is rice cooked with chicken fat, served with boiled chicken, accompanied with chili sauce. Three noodle dishes stand out in Singapore cuisine. \"Fried Hokkien mee\", fried egg noodles with prawns, sliced pork and gravy, \"Nyonya laksa\", rice noodles served in a coconut prawn broth and \"Char Kuey Teow\", stir-fried rice noodles with prawns, Chinese sausage, lard and cockles. In the snack category, kaya toast is the representative dish, primarily due to the use of kaya. \"Kaya kopitiams\" are a common sight on the island. These affordable coffee shops dish out bread toasts, spread with coconut egg jam and butter, served with coffee and tea as well as two soft Boiled eggs.\n\nThe dishes that comprise \"Singaporean Chinese cuisine\" today were originally brought to Singapore by the early southern Chinese immigrants (Hokkien, Teochew, Cantonese, Hakka and Hainanese). They were then adapted to suit the local availability of ingredients, while absorbing influences from Malay, Indian and other cooking traditions.\n\nMost of the names of Singaporean Chinese dishes were derived from dialects of southern China, Hokkien (Min Nan) being the most common. As there was no common system for transliterating these dialects into the Latin alphabet, it is common to see different variants on the same name for a single dish. For example, \"bah kut teh\" may also be spelt \"bak kut teh\", and \"char kway tiao\" may also be spelt \"char kuay teow\".\n\nSituated between Malaysia and Indonesia, Singaporean Malay dishes is influenced by the food of the neighbouring Malay Peninsula, Sumatra, Java and the Riau Islands. Despite absorbing regional influences, it tends to be adapted to local tastes and differ from their counterparts in neighbouring countries. Although Malays are native to Singapore, most Malays in Singapore today are either relatively recent immigrants from Indonesia and Malaysia, or the descendants of these immigrants. Hence, Singaporean Malay cuisine features a unique set of influences, especially from Minang cuisine. Spices and coconut milk are common ingredients, although Chinese ingredients such as taupok (tofu puffs) and tofu (known as tauhu in Malay) have been integrated. Many Chinese and Tamil Muslim adaptations of the following dishes also exist. Pork is not used as it's prohibited in Islam.\n\nLike other Singaporean ethnic cuisines, Singaporean Indian cuisine has been influenced by multiple cultural groups. Dishes from both North India and South India can be found in Singapore.\n\n\nA number of dishes, listed below, can be considered as truly hybrid or multi-ethnic food.\n\n\nSingaporeans also enjoy a wide variety of seafood including fish, squid (known as \"sotong\" in Malay), stingray, crab, lobster, clams, and oysters.\n\nPopular seafood dishes include:\n\n\nA wide variety of tropical fruits are available all year round. By far the most well known is the durian, known as the \"King of Fruits\", which produces a characteristic odour from the creamy yellow custard-like flesh within its spiky green or brown shell. Durians are banned on public transport, elevators, certain hotels, and public buildings because of their strong odour.\n\nOther popular tropical fruits include mangosteen, jackfruit, longan, lychee, rambutan, soursoup, pineapple and mango. Some of these fruits also are used as ingredients for other dishes: iced desserts, sweet-and-sour pork, and certain types of salad such as rojak.\n\nSingaporean desserts have a varied history. A typical food court or hawker centre dessert stall will usually have a large variety of desserts available, including but not limited to:\n\nWafer ice cream sandwiches are a popular dish sold by street vendors operating carts on busy street corners. These carts carry a variety of flavours, including but not limited to vanilla, chocolate, strawberry, coffee, sweet corn, coconut, and durian. While some vendors sell their ice cream in cups or cones, as is common in the West, the more popular variant is on slices of bread or between wafers. The ice cream consists of sealed blocks which are sliced to order and then placed on a single slice of over-sized, often multicolored bread. This can be either white bread or a slice of multicolored, slightly sweetened bread (dyed with food colouring and flavoured with pandan leaf extract). A sandwich costs around S$1 but may cost up to S$2 or more in downtown areas and tourist spots.\n\nPopular Singaporean drinks include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2024440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024440", "title": "Michael Avon Oeming", "text": "Michael Avon Oeming\n\nMichael Avon Oeming is an American comic book creator, both as an artist and writer.\n\nOeming is a fan of ancient mythology, having written or drawn several projects centering on the Norse gods. He frequently collaborates with long-time friend Bryan J. L. Glass, and with Brian Michael Bendis. He is part of the M.O.B. crew of comic book creators, along with David Mack, Brian Bendis and Daniel Berman.\n\nHis 1998 comic book \"Bulletproof Monk\" was made into a film of the same name.\n\nThe previous mentioned collaborations are \"The Mice Templar\" from Image Comics, which he draws and co-authors with Bryan J.L. Glass, and \"Powers\" from Icon Comics which he draws, and sometimes co-authors, with Brian Bendis. His creator-owned projects include \"Rapture\", on which he collaborated with his wife, Taki Soma, and \"The Victories\", both for Dark Horse Comics.\n\nAs of 2010, he is employed as a staff member of Valve, working on \"Left 4 Dead\", \"Team Fortress 2\" and \"Portal 2\" webcomics.\n\nOeming has a son, Ethan and currently resides in Portland, Oregon with his wife, fellow writer/artist Taki Soma.\n\n\n\nEagle Awards in 2006 for favorite writer/artist of the Cross Bronx.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2024459", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024459", "title": "Hamshahri", "text": "Hamshahri\n\nHamshahri (, \"Fellow citizen\"; ) is a major national Iranian Persian-language newspaper.\n\n\"Hamshahri\" is published by the municipality of Tehran, and founded by Gholamhossein Karbaschi. It is the first coloured daily newspaper in Iran and has over 60 pages of classified advertisement. The newspaper is distributed within the limits of Tehran municipality. It has a daily circulation of over 400,000 copies, which is on par with major US-American daily newspapers such as the \"San Francisco Chronicle\", \"Boston Globe\", and \"Chicago Tribune\". Based on the results of a domestic poll of how citizens of Tehran view television and print media which were released by Iran’s Ministry of Culture and Islamic Guidance \"Hamshahri\" was the most read daily in Tehran with 44.1% in March 2014.\n\nIn 1997's Iranian presidential election, Hamshahri newspaper, then run by former mayor of Tehran, Gholamhossein Karbaschi, was accused by conservatives of supporting Mohammad Khatami. This was seen as illegal, as papers receiving government subsidy were forbidden to take sides in the elections. The issue eventually led to Karbaschi being put on trial on grounds of embezzlement and was sentenced to time in prison. During Khatami's second term, Tehran press court ruled that the newspaper can only be distributed inside Tehran.\n\nOn 6 February 2006, Farid Mortazavi, graphics editor of \"Hamshahri\", announced the International Holocaust Cartoon Competition, a cartoon contest to denounce what it called 'Western hypocrisy on freedom of speech', alleging that \"it is impossible in the West to joke upon or even discuss certain topics related to Judaism, such as the Holocaust, and the pretexts for the creation of Israel.\". The contest was created in response to the Jyllands-Posten Muhammad cartoons controversy and ended on 1 November 2006 with Abdellah Derkaoui, a Moroccan cartoonist, claiming the first prize. The event was denounced by United Nations Secretary-General Kofi Annan, the Israeli foreign ministry, Reporters Without Borders, the Anti-Defamation League and other parties.\n\nThe newspaper was temporarily banned from publication on 23–24 November 2009, after it published a picture from a temple of the Bahá'í Faith which is banned in Iran.\n\n\nMohammad ebrahimi, born 22 July 1993 for two years worked in the newspaper\n\n"}
{"id": "2024467", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024467", "title": "Kitchee SC", "text": "Kitchee SC\n\nKitchee Sports Club (; ; ) is a Hong Kong football team based in Kowloon. It was founded in 1931 and currently competes in the Hong Kong Premier League. \n\nThe club has won the Hong Kong Premier League three times, the Hong Kong First Division six times, and the Hong Kong FA Cup six times in their history. In the last 5 years, Kitchee won slightly more than 50% of all possible trophies being competed in Hong Kong. The club is also the first-ever team from Hong Kong to win a game in the history of the AFC Champions League group stage.\n\nIn the late 1920s, a group of Hong Kongers formed a football team in order to compete in the Hong Kong Third Division. It was not until 1931, however, that the team was established as Kitchee Sports Club.\n\nKitchee was founded as a grassroots organization, as such, they lacked the funding to pay the administrative and facilities costs necessary to become a multi sports club. It was not until 1934 when the club were able to raise the money to rent an office at 130 Johnston Road in Wan Chai, that they were admitted as members of the Hong Kong Football Association.\n\nIn 1939, Japanese bombs accidentally hit Hong Kong during the Second Sino-Japanese War. The club's records during this time were destroyed during the bombing.\n\nAs the Pacific War began, Hong Kong fell to the Japanese on 25 December 1941, therefore the club's operations were suspended during the three-year, eight-month Japanese occupation of Hong Kong.\n\nAfter the Japanese surrender of Hong Kong in August 1945, former members of Kitchee returned to the club. They resolved to help revitalize the and establish the Chinese Football Association of Hong Kong, the Hong Kong Chinese Football Referees’ Association and the Hong Kong Chinese Footballer's Fraternity.\n\nFollowing the war, Kitchee were admitted into the 1947–48 Hong Kong First Division League where they won the league title, the club's first major trophy. Between 1947 and 1964, the club won three Hong Kong First Division titles, one Second Division title, four Hong Kong Senior Shield's and one Hong Kong Junior Shield.\n\nDuring this period, Kitchee discovered Hong Kong football legends and Lam Sheung Yee. Yiu led the club to its first two First Division titles and later became known as the \"Treasure of Hong Kong Football.\" Lam spent a total 14 years at Kitchee, split between two spells, and was a part of every Kitchee squad which won a trophy between 1948 and 1964.\n\nIn 1965–66, Kitchee won only one game while drawing four others in the season, finishing second bottom of the table. The club were relegated after a 17-year spell in the top flight. In the subsequent season, Kitchee slid into the Third Division for the first time in three decades.\n\nIn the late 1980s, Law Ding Chun was hired as the new chairman of Kitchee. Law moved quickly to modernize the operations of Kitchee, buying insurance for all of his players in order to provide them with peace of mind in the event of an injury. His changes worked as Kitchee were soon promoted back to the Second Division.\n\nIn 1991–92, Kitchee won the Second Division title, returning to the top flight for the first time in 26 years. The squad during this period featured many future Hong Kong internationals including Yau Kin Wai, Chung Ho Yin, , Yeung Ching Kwong, Dale Tempest, as well as former England international Mark Barham. Kitchee spent three seasons in the top flight before they were relegated along with Kui Tan at the end of the 1994–95 season.\n\nDuring the 1998–99 season, Kitchee won promotion back to the First Division as well as the Hong Kong Junior Shield. The following year, the squad were led by a backbone of young local players such as Lee Wai Lun, Man Pei Tak and Ng Wai Chiu. However, these were soon poached by bigger clubs and due to inadequate replacements, the performance of the team suffered and Kitchee were once again relegated at the conclusion of the 2000–01 season.\n\nAhead of the 2002–03 season, former Hong Kong national team manager was hired as Kitchee's manager. He led the team to the Second Division title in his one and only season as manager.\n\nFollowing its return to the First Division in 2003, Kitchee became one of the most prominent teams in Hong Kong, winning three trophies in two seasons under coach Dejan Antonic: two in (2005–2006) and one in 2006–07 season. The club secured 2nd place in the league, along with league champions South China who had already qualified for the AFC Cup as the Hong Kong Senior Shield winners. As a result, Kitchee became one of two Hong Kong representatives in the 2008 AFC Cup.\n\nSince 2009, the club has been a partner of the Chinese University of Hong Kong in its Injury Prevention and Performance Enhancement (IPPE) program.\n\nKitchee were invited to take part in the 2010 Singapore Cup, becoming the first Hong Kong team to take part in the tournament. The club lost to Etoile FC 4:6 over two legs in the quarter final.\n\nIn the 2010–11 season, under coach Josep Gombau, Kitchee won its first league title in 47 years by one point over arch rival South China, allowing the club to compete in both the 2011 Barclays Asia Trophy, where they lost 0:4 to Chelsea and 0:3 to Blackburn Rovers, and in the 2012 AFC Cup.\n\nBetween 2011–14, Kitchee players combined to win the Footballer of the Year award for four straight years. The recipients of this award were Roberto Losada in 2011, Lo Kwan Yee in 2012, Huang Yang in 2013 and Fernando Recio in 2014.\n\nIn 2012, Kitchee Foundation submitted a successful proposal to The Hong Kong Jockey Club Charities Trust for a youth football training centre. The club received over HK$44 million from the trust for the establishment of a training ground at Shek Mun, Shatin, New Territories. The Jockey Club Kitchee Centre, as it was later called, opened in 2014. The trust provided 90% of the funding, with the rest coming in part from the proceeds of a Kitchee vs Arsenal exhibition match where they drew 2–2. Apart from serving as the training ground of Kitchee first team and Kitchee Academy, the Centre also provides facilities for the Education Bureau-approved Professional Footballer Preparatory Programme, which Kitchee jointly offers with Yan Chai Hospital Tung Chi Ying Memorial Secondary School, in order to integrate football training into regular school curriculum and schedule.\n\nIn October 2012, Arsenal donated HK$780,000 to Kitchee Foundation in support of the youth training centre.\n\nThe club won the 2013–14 First Division title. The following season, Kitchee won the inaugural Hong Kong Premier League, the 2014–15 HKFA Cup and the 2014–15 League Cup, completing the treble for the second time.\n\nIn 2016–17, Kitchee completed a treble for the third time, capturing the 2016–17 Senior Shield, the 2016–17 Hong Kong FA Cup and the 2016-17 Hong Kong Premier League title. The club promoted long time assistant coach Chu Chi Kwong to Head Coach and Director of Football. Brazilian attacking midfielder Fernando won the 2017 Footballer of the Year award while striker Sandro won the Golden Boot.\n\nDuring the 2017 AFC Champions League qualifiers, Kitchee won against Vietnam's Hà Nội 3–2 but lost in the playoff rounds to Ulsan Hyundai in penalties.\n\nKitchee directly qualified 2018 AFC Champions League group stage through their HKPL title. To prepare for the competition, the club successfully signed famous Uruguayan footballer Diego Forlán to play for them. The club managed to achieve a 1–0 win over Kashiwa Reysol at home, becoming the first-ever team from Hong Kong to win a game in the history of the AFC Champions League group stage. Domestically, Kitchee won the 2017–18 Hong Kong Premier League, 2017–18 Hong Kong FA Cup and the 2017–18 Hong Kong Sapling Cup, completing a treble for the second consecutive season and the fourth in club history.\n\n \n\n \"(on loan at -)\"\n\nKitchee's supporter group is known as \"Ultras Bluewave\". The group was formed in 2015, as is active at home and away matches in both the Hong Kong Premier League, and in continental competition.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2024476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024476", "title": "Jennifer Lyn Jackson", "text": "Jennifer Lyn Jackson\n\nJennifer Lyn Jackson (March 21, 1969 – January 22, 2010) of Cleveland, Ohio, was the \"Playboy\" magazine Playmate of the Month for April 1989. Jackson was also one of three finalists chosen for \"Playboy's\" 35th Anniversary Playmate. Outtakes from her Playmate pictorial, which was photographed by Arny Freytag, appeared in \"Playboy Special Editions\" several times following her centerfold appearance.\n\nJackson graduated from North Olmsted High School in 1986, and she went on to study business and finance at Kent State University.\n\nIn January 2007, Jackson was arrested in Oberlin, Ohio, for driving under the influence (DUI), and police found open beer bottles, marijuana, and stolen tobacco products in her car. In a plea bargain, she pleaded guilty to DUI and the other criminal charges were dropped. She was given a suspended sentence of 180 days in jail, fined $500, placed on probation for three years, and had her driver's license suspended for six months. She was also ordered to receive a period of drug and alcohol abuse counseling.\n\nA long time drug addict, on January 22, 2010, Jackson was found dead from a heroin overdose by her husband, James Thompson, in their trailer park home in Westlake, Ohio.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2024480", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024480", "title": "John Scott (Canadian politician)", "text": "John Scott (Canadian politician)\n\nJohn Scott (1822 – May 1, 1857) was the first mayor of Bytown, later Ottawa, in 1847. He also served a second term as mayor in 1850. He concurrently served in the Legislative Assembly of the Province of Canada representing Bytown from 1848 to 1851.\n\nHe was born in Brockville, Ontario in 1822. He studied law in Toronto and was called to the bar in the early 1840s. He came to Bytown to practice law in 1845.\n\nScott married Nancy Louisa Wright (1830–1901), daughter of Tiberuis Wright and Lois Ricker and a granddaughter of Philemon Wright, in 1850. By the 1850s Scott moved to Goderich, Ontario where he served as county judge, died in New York City and buried in Hull, Quebec.\n"}
{"id": "2024484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024484", "title": "Wesley Clair Mitchell", "text": "Wesley Clair Mitchell\n\nWesley Clair Mitchell (August 5, 1874 – October 29, 1948) was an American economist known for his empirical work on business cycles and for guiding the National Bureau of Economic Research in its first decades.\n\nMitchell was referred to as Thorstein Veblen's \"star student.\"\n\nPaul Samuelson named Mitchell (along with Harry Gunnison Brown, Allyn Abbott Young, Henry Ludwell Moore, Frank Knight, Jacob Viner, and Henry Schultz) as one of the several \"American saints in economics\" born after 1860.\n\nMitchell was born in Rushville, Illinois, the second child and oldest son of a Civil War army doctor turned farmer. In a family with seven children and a disabled father with an appetite for business ventures \"verging on rashness\" a lot of responsibility fell on the oldest son. Despite these challenges, Wesley Clair went to study at the University of Chicago and was awarded a PhD in 1899.\n\nMitchell's career as a researcher and teacher took the following course: instructor in economics at Chicago (1899–1903), assistant professor (1903–08) and professor (1909–12) of economics at the University of California, Berkeley, visiting lecturer at Harvard University (1908–09), lecturer (1913) and full professor (1914–44) at Columbia University. In 1916 he was elected as a Fellow of the American Statistical Association.\n\nHe was one of the founders of the New School for Social Research, where he taught for a time between 1919 and 1922, and of the National Bureau of Economic Research (1920), where he was director of research until 1945.\n\nThere were interruptions for government service during the First World War and Mitchell served on many government committees; he was chairman of the President's Committee on Social Trends (1929–33). In 1923–4 he was president of the American Economic Association. Mitchell and John Whitridge Williams represented the United States at the World Population Conference held in Geneva, Switzerland in 1927. From 1941 he was on the original standing committee of the Foundation for the Study of Cycles.\n\nThe National Bureau was the institution through which Mitchell had greatest influence. There his important associates included Arthur Burns and Simon Kuznets. In his autobiography Kuznets acknowledges his \"great intellectual debt to Mitchell.\"\n\nMitchell has also made valuable contributions to the history of economic thought.\n\nMitchell was married to Lucy Sprague Mitchell, a pioneering educator and the founder of Bank Street College of Education. He assisted his wife with the founding of the school.\n\nMitchell’s teachers included economists Thorstein Veblen and J. L. Laughlin and philosopher John Dewey. Although Veblen and Dewey did more to shape Mitchell’s outlook, Laughlin supervised his dissertation. Laughlin's main interest was in currency questions; he was a strong opponent of the quantity theory of money. The currency question facing the US in the 1890s was the choice between alternative monetary standards: inconvertible paper, gold monometallism and gold/silver bimetallism.\n\nMitchell’s thesis, published as \"A History of the Greenbacks,\" considered the consequences of the inconvertible paper regime established by the Union in the Civil War. However this, and the follow-up study \"Gold Prices and Wages Under the Greenback Standard,\" transcended conventional monetary history of the kind Laughlin did and provided a comprehensive quantitative account of the behavior of the US economy in the recent past.\n\nMitchell's next project, which would occupy him for the rest of his life, was the study and measurement of the business cycle, which was then emerging as the big problem in economics. His magnum opus, \"Business Cycles\" appeared in 1913. The Preface begins\nThis book offers an analytic description of the complicated processes by which seasons of business prosperity, crisis, depression, and revival come about in the modern world. The materials used consist chiefly of market reports and statistics concerning the business cycles which have run their course since 1890 in the United States, England, Germany and France.\nIn chapter I Mitchell reviews 13 theories of the business cycle and admits that \"All are plausible.\" He then puts them aside, arguing,\n\nTo observe, analyse, and systematise the phenomena of prosperity, crisis, and depression is the chief task. And there is better prospect of rendering service if we attack this task directly, than if we take the round about way of considering the phenomena with reference to the theory.\n\nMitchell's research strategy was thus quite different from that adopted by H. L. Moore or Irving Fisher who started from a hypothesis and went looking for evidence to support it. Moore and Mitchell offer another contrast in that, while Moore embraced the new statistical methods of correlation and regression, Mitchell found little use for them.\n\nThirty years later Mitchell was still working on business cycles and he published another large work, \"Measuring Business Cycles\" with A.F. Burns. This book presented the characteristic \"National Bureau\" methods of analyzing business cycles. While Mitchell was still following the 1913 agenda, other economists had taken to studying the economy using models and even to constructing macroeconometric models. Against this background of Keynesian economics and the new econometric methods Mitchell and his project looked dated.\n\nMilton Friedman believed that, \"Mitchell is generally considered primarily an empirical scientist rather than a theorist\". However, Mitchell's main creative efforts went into his empirical work on business cycles. Mitchell stated an endogenous theory, based on the internal dynamics of capitalism. Whereas neoclassical theories are deduced from unproven psychological axioms, he builds his theory from inductive generalities gained from empirical research. Also, he was considered a critic of conventional economic theory. As influenced greatly by Veblen, Mitchell is usually categorized with him as an American institutionalist.\n\nThere is a bibliography in the volume edited by Burns (below).\nLucy Sprague Mitchell, Wesley Mitchell's wife, wrote the book \"Two lives; the story of Wesley Clair Mitchell and myself\" (New York, Simon and Schuster, 1953).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2024497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024497", "title": "Reptile Boy", "text": "Reptile Boy\n\n\"Reptile Boy\" is episode five of season two of \"Buffy the Vampire Slayer\". The episode was written and directed by co-executive producer David Greenwalt. The narrative follows Buffy Summers, the Slayer, who is tired of being responsible and goes to a frat party where she's nearly devoured by a giant snake named Machida, whom the fraternity worship.\n\nA girl jumps out of a second-floor window of a frat house and flees into a cemetery, where she is caught. Meanwhile, The Scooby Gang are happy with the apparent lack of activity on the Hellmouth. Giles presses Buffy to train harder, but she just wants to be a teenager. The next day at school, Cordelia introduces her to two college guys, one of whom invites Buffy to a party. She turns him down, claiming she is involved with someone. Buffy goes on patrol at the cemetery and meets Angel, who smells blood on a bracelet on the ground. He says that their age difference is a problem and that she does not know what she wants in life. She runs off, upset.\n\nBuffy decides to go to the frat party with Cordelia. She chooses not to tell Giles or Angel about her date. Later that night, Giles and Willow discover that the bracelet is from Kent Preparatory School, just outside Sunnydale and where Buffy is partying. Angel appears and asks about Buffy. Willow tells the two men why Buffy lied to them. They then rush off to save Buffy and Cordelia.\n\nAt the party, Buffy tries to avoid drunken frat guys. Xander has sneaked in to protect Buffy, but other drunken party-goers recognize him for a crasher and dress him up like a girl. Meanwhile, Buffy relents and decides to accept a drink. Drugged, she stumbles her way up to the bedroom where Cordelia is lying unconscious. When they wake up, they find themselves chained in a basement with the girl caught in the beginning as an offering for a reptile demon named Machida, who the fraternity - calling themselves the Delta-Zeta-Kappas - worship. Cordelia is chosen as the first victim, but Buffy distracts the demon and breaks out of her chains.\n\nWillow, Angel and Giles head to the frat party and meet up with Xander. They enter the house and beat up the frat guys. Buffy kills the demon, the frat guys are arrested, and Giles promises to stop pushing Buffy so hard. Afterwards, everyone gathers at The Bronze. Xander reads from a newspaper that the frat guys were given life sentences and their family's businesses - and others set up by previous Delta-Zeta-Kappas -have gone bankrupt due to the demon's death. Angel appears and asks to have coffee with Buffy sometime. She plays it cool.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2024499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024499", "title": "Grant Markham", "text": "Grant Markham\n\nGrant Markham is a fictional character originally created by author Steve Lyons as a new companion of the Sixth Doctor in Virgin Publishing's range of original full-length \"Doctor Who\" novels, the \"Missing Adventures\". The \"Missing Adventures\" were fully licensed novels carrying on from where the \"Doctor Who\" television series had left off, and Grant was introduced in Lyons' novel \"Time of Your Life\" in 1995.\n\nGrant first met the Doctor in the year 2191 when his home city of New Tokyo on the planet New Earth was transported into a Marston Sphere. Grant used his computer programming skills to defeat a giant robot dinosaur that was terrorising the city. Although the Doctor was able to save New Tokyo, at the end of the story Grant stayed with him to become his companion.\n\nGrant and the Doctor's next adventure was on the planet Agora, Grant's birthplace. Again in the year 2191, they discovered that the Cybermen had been using the planet to gather strong males to use in the cyber-conversion process. Grant met his father, Ben Taggart, who had had Grant sent away from the planet. Taggart was later killed in an unsuccessful attempt to convert him into a Cyberman, watched by Grant. This moved Grant to volunteer to become a Bronze Knight — a resistance group of Agorans who themselves used cybernetic implants to become stronger in order to defeat the Cybermen. He was convinced not to give up his humanity by the Knights' creator, the scientist Maxine Carter. The Cybermen attacked the Bronze Knights resulting in their sustaining a high number of losses, but Grant lowered their base's temperature deactivating the Cybermen. The Doctor then destroyed the remaining Cybermen by sabotaging a cannon from the Cybermen's stolen Selachian warship.\n\nThe description of an unnamed character that appeared in the short story \"Repercussions\" by Gary Russell (in the Big Finish Productions anthology \"\") resembled Grant. This character was a passenger on board an airship travelling through the Time Vortex. The airship carried various people whom the Doctor had placed there to stop them from being a danger to the Web of Time. If this was indeed Grant, it may indicate that as far as the Big Finish continuity is concerned, he was written out of history.\n\n\"The following are from unofficial anthologies that are not generally considered canon.\"\n\nGrant also appeared in two stories alongside the Sixth Doctor in the charity anthology \"Perfect Timing\" (1998). In the first, \"Wish Upon A Star Beast\" by Steve Lyons, the Doctor and Grant encounter a group of killer Meeps in the Santaland amusement centre in Norway during the 22nd century.\n\nThe second story, \"Schrödinger’s Botanist\" by Ian McIntire, covers a longer span of time, during which Grant and the Doctor have many adventures and are also accompanied by a Legion (a member of a multidimensional alien race that appears in the Virgin novels \"Lucifer Rising\" and \"The Crystal Bucephalus\"). During the course of the story, Grant links his mind to a computer infected by a virus and is seriously injured. Unwilling to risk his life any further, the Sixth Doctor leaves him at the Bi-Al Foundation. The Doctor later regrets abandoning Grant and returns to apologise, but Grant is unable to forgive him and they part on bitter terms.\n"}
{"id": "2024526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024526", "title": "Marc Cohn (album)", "text": "Marc Cohn (album)\n\nMarc Cohn is the self-titled debut studio album released in 1991 by American singer-songwriter Marc Cohn. The album peaked at No. 38 on the \"Billboard\" 200 Chart. It was RIAA certified gold in 1992 and was certified platinum in 1996. The album is known for the hit single \"Walking in Memphis\". Following the release of the album, Cohn won the 1992 Grammy Award for Best New Artist.\n\nTrack 9 written by Willie Dixon; all other tracks written by Marc Cohn.\n\n\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "2024552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024552", "title": "Vin gris", "text": "Vin gris\n\nVin gris () is a variant of rosé wine made from red grapes, in particular pinot noir. Pinot noir is a black grape, but can also be used to make rosé or white wine. When the grapes are brought to the winery and crushed, the juice is run off and removed from contact with the skin, leaving the colour and flavor compounds from the skin behind. The juice is then typically fermented in stainless steel tanks before being bottled shortly after, without any aging in oak barrels.\n\nProducing a small volume of Vin gris (or rosé) can also be used as a technique to improve Pinot noir. Removing some clear juice increases the concentration of colors and flavour compounds from the skins in the remaining juice intended for making red wine; the resulting rosé is known as a \"saignée\" (bled).\n\nAnother grape used to produce Vin Gris is Gamay, particularly in Lorraine, where the Côtes de Toul zone produces a light and delightful Vin Gris. The vinification is the same as with Pinot Noir (short contact of the white juice with the red skins during the pressing), but the fruity flavour of the Gamay very much changes the taste of the wine. \n\nChampagne is often made using this process, when it is known as \"blanc de noirs\".\n\nThe Moschofilero, an indigenous grape of Arcadia, Greece is a grape with pink/purple skin and white flesh, and makes \"blanc de gris\" wines of the \"\"Mantineia\"\" appellation of origin.\n\n"}
{"id": "2024566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024566", "title": "Teltron tube", "text": "Teltron tube\n\nA teltron tube (named for Teltron Inc., which is now owned by 3B Scientific Ltd.) is a type of cathode ray tube used to demonstrate the properties of electrons. There were several different types made by Teltron including a diode, a triode, a Maltese Cross tube, a simple deflection tube with a fluorescent screen, and one which could be used to measure the charge-to-mass ratio of an electron. The latter two contained an electron gun with deflecting plates. The beams can be bent by applying voltages to various electrodes in the tube or by holding a magnet close by. The electron beams are visible as fine bluish lines. This is accomplished by filling the tube with low pressure helium (He) or Hydrogen (H) gas. A few of the electrons in the beam collide with the helium atoms, causing them to fluoresce and emit light.\n\nThey are usually used to teach electromagnetic effects because they show how an electron beam is affected by electric fields and by magnetic fields like the Lorentz force.\n\nCharged particles in a uniform electric field follow a parabolic trajectory, since the electric field term (of the Lorentz force which acts on the particle) is the product of the particle's charge and the magnitude of the electric field, (oriented in the direction of the electric field). In a uniform magnetic field however, charged particles follow a circular trajectory due to the cross product in the magnetic field term of the Lorentz force. (That is, the force from the magnetic field acts on the particle in a direction perpendicular to the particle's direction of motion. See: Lorentz force for more details.)\n\nThe 'teltron' apparatus consists of a Teltron type electron deflection tube, a Teltron stand, EHT power supply (, variable).\n\nIn an evacuated glass bulb some hydrogen gas (H) is filled, so that the tube has a hydrogen atmosphere at low pressure of about is formed. The pressure is such that the electrons are decelerated by collisions as little as possible (change in kinetic energy), the number of collisions are few but sufficient to emit visible light. Inside the bulb there is an electron gun. This consists of a heating spiral, a cathode and an anode hole. From the cathode (-) electrons are emitted and accelerated by the electric field towards the positively charged anode (+). Through a hole in the anode, the electrons leave the beam forming system and the Wehnelt cylinder bundles.\n\nWhen the heater is energized, the heating coil will cause electrons to emerge from it due to thermionic emission. In the electric field between anode and cathode, the electric field acts on the electrons, which accelerate to a high velocity, such that the electrons leave through a small opening in the anode as an electron beam. Only when the coil current is turned on will a force act on the beam and change its direction. Otherwise it will retain its velocity. If, however, the coil current is switched on, the Lorentz force will direct the electrons into a circular orbit.\n\nThe higher the coil current, the stronger magnetic field and thus smaller radius of the circular path of the electrons. The strength of the magnetic field and the Lorentz force are proportional to each other, such that when the Lorentz force increases. A larger Lorentz force will deflect the electrons more strongly, so the orbit will be smaller. The Lorentz force formula_1 is always perpendicular to the instantaneous direction of movement and allows a centripetal formula_2 circular motion. The magnitude of the velocity and hence the kinetic energy can not change:\n\nFrom this we get the amount of specific electron charge\n\nThe determination of the velocity is performed using the energy conservation law\n\nThis is finally followed by\n\nThe specific electron charge has the value\n\nSince the charge of an electron is available from the Millikan experiment, the study of electrons in an magnetic field is the determination of its mass in accordance with:\n\nSimilar concepts for the weighing of charged particles can be found in the mass spectrometer.\n\n"}
{"id": "2024570", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024570", "title": "History of Mozilla Application Suite", "text": "History of Mozilla Application Suite\n\nThe history of the Mozilla Application Suite began with the release of the source code of the Netscape suite as an open source project. Going through years of hard work (with the help of the community contributors), Mozilla 1.0 was eventually released on June 5, 2002. Its backend code base, most notably the Gecko layout engine, has become the foundation of a number of applications based on Mozilla, including the Mozilla Foundation's flagship product Mozilla Firefox and Mozilla Thunderbird. While the suite is no longer a formal Mozilla product, its development and maintenance is continued as the SeaMonkey community project.\n\nIn March 1998, Netscape Communications Corporation released most of the code base for its popular Netscape Communicator suite under an open source license. The name of the application developed from this would be \"Mozilla\", coordinated by the newly created Mozilla Organization, at the mozilla.org website.\n\nThe open source release, which came at the height of America's late-1990s economic boom, was greeted by the Internet community with a mixture of acclaim and skepticism. In some circles, Netscape's source release was seen as both a victory for the free software movement and an opportunity for Netscape to tap the power of open source development. This view was particularly popular among users of Linux and other free software. Other observers, including many outside of the free software business community, interpreted the move as Netscape's surrender in the face of the ascendancy of Microsoft's Internet Explorer browser.\n\nRegardless of the public's opinion, development with the Communicator code base proved harder than initially hoped:\n\nAs a result, the initial Communicator open source release did not even build cleanly, much less run. This presented steep challenges to the Mozilla core developers (most of whom were still on Netscape's payroll), and even steeper challenges to independent developers wishing to contribute to Mozilla on their own.\n\nUltimately, the Mozilla core developers concluded that the old code could not be salvaged. As stated on the October 26, 1998 development roadmap, it was decided to scrap the whole code base and rewrite it from the ground up. The resulting plan included, among other things, the creation of a whole new cross-platform user interface library and a new layout engine.\n\nFew observers foresaw the result. On December 7, 1998, Netscape released a special \"preview\" based on the Gecko layout engine. Gecko had already been in development for some time at Netscape under the internal name \"NGLayout\" (short for \"Next Generation Layout\"). It was noticeably faster and smaller than its predecessor (known as Mariner). One widely publicized feature of the first Gecko preview release was that it fit on a single 1.44 MB floppy disk, making it about one tenth the size of most contemporary browsers.\n\nThe prompt release of Gecko led many to believe that a complete browser could not be far behind. However, the first release of the layout engine was far from bug- and crash-free, and even farther from being ready for the prime-time. Producing a fully functional web browser required much more than the nascent rendering engine: the Mozilla developers soon envisioned a project more ambitious than a simple web browser. The new Mozilla (internally codenamed \"Seamonkey\") would be a \"platform for Internet applications\", with a fully programmable user interface and a modular architecture. This Mozilla would function equally well as a host for email client, instant messaging client, news client, or any number of other applications.\n\nDue to the effort required for this massive rewrite, the project fell far behind its original projected deadlines. In the years that followed, skepticism about Mozilla grew widespread, and some doubted that a finished Mozilla browser would ever see the light of day. However, the project persisted, continuing uninterrupted through both the purchase of Netscape by AOL and the end of the dot-com boom.\n\nBy June 5, 2002, the Mozilla project had produced version 1.0 of the browser that worked on multiple operating systems, including Linux, Mac OS, Microsoft Windows, and Solaris. The browser was praised for introducing new features that Internet Explorer lacked, including better support for user privacy preferences and some interface improvements. Additionally, the Mozilla browser became a \"de facto\" reference implementation for various World Wide Web Consortium standards, due to its strong support for those standards.\n\nOn July 15, 2003, AOL announced that it would close down its browser division, which was in essence Netscape's Mozilla. AOL laid off most of Netscape's employees and hackers, except for some who were transferred to other divisions. Netscape signs were seen being pulled off its building, confirming what many took as the end of Netscape. AOL kept the Netscape brand for its portal, but the company no longer paid anyone to develop the Mozilla codebase.\n\nOn the same day, the Mozilla Foundation was created. The Foundation is a non-profit organization composed primarily of developers and staff from Mozilla Organization and owns the Mozilla trademark (but not the copyright to the source code, which is retained by the individual and corporate contributors, but licensed under the GPL, MPL and LGPL). It received initial $2 million donations from AOL, IBM, Sun Microsystems, and Red Hat, and $300,000 from Mitch Kapor.\n\nMany people had been expecting this after AOL reached a settlement with competitor, Microsoft, with a deal for the AOL software to use Internet Explorer for the next 7 years. Netscape had always been seen as a bargaining chip for AOL against Microsoft.\n\nAccording to the Mozilla development roadmap published on April 2, 2003, the Mozilla Organization planned to focus development efforts on the new standalone applications: Phoenix (now known as Mozilla Firefox) and Minotaur (now known as Mozilla Thunderbird). Since then, many new features and enhancements have been added to the standalone applications only.\n\nOn March 10, 2005, the Mozilla Foundation announced that they would not release any further official versions of the suite beyond 1.7.x. However, the foundation emphasized that they would still provide infrastructure for community members who wished to continue development. In effect, this means that the suite will still continue to be developed, but not by the Mozilla Foundation itself. To avoid confusing organizations that still want to use the original Mozilla Suite, the new product needed a new name. On July 2, 2005, it was announced that the suite is going to be named SeaMonkey, which was originally the code name of the Mozilla Application Suite. The new project-leading group is known as the \"SeaMonkey Council\".\n\nInitially, the term \"Mozilla\" was loosely used to refer to a number of subjects, including the Mozilla project, the Mozilla Suite, the codebase of the Suite and its related technologies. Since the shifting of development focus, to distinguish the suite from the standalone products, the suite was marketed as \"Mozilla Suite\", or the more lengthy \"Mozilla Application Suite\".\n\nIt is often argued that since free software is typically only designed by programmers rather than graphic designers or usability gurus, it frequently suffers from poor icon and GUI design, and a lack of a strong visual identity.\n\nDuring development of Mozilla, a number of logos were used in various areas of the application. The logos are inconsistent with each other; for example, the logo used as the program's icon is different from the one used as the throbber, which is again different from the one used in the \"About\" window.\n\nParts of this table are based on the release notes of Mozilla.\n\nNote (1): 1.2.1 was the last official Mozilla.org public release to support Mac OS 9 \"Classic\". Technically though, 1.3a was the last version to support OS 9 but only via the use of the CarbonLib extension as explained in the 1.3a release notes. An unofficial port of 1.3a was later created in the form of WaMCom in an attempt to provide a stable build of 1.3 for OS 9 users.\n\nNote (2): There was no Mozilla 1.7.4. The 1.7.5 version number was selected to match the internal Gecko version number of Mozilla Firefox 1.0.\n\nNote (3): Mozilla 1.7.9 was cancelled. It was intended that Mozilla 1.7.9 would be released shortly after Mozilla Firefox 1.0.5 and Mozilla Thunderbird 1.0.5. However, regressions were found in the 1.0.5 versions of Firefox and Thunderbird after they were released, so Mozilla 1.7.9 was cancelled. Mozilla 1.7.10 was released shortly after Firefox 1.0.6 and Thunderbird 1.0.6.\n\nThe following screenshots show the evolution of user interface in Mozilla from M3 to 1.0. The interface of Mozilla was almost unchanged since version 1.0. Mozilla M11 is not available because of program crash.\n\n"}
{"id": "2024576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024576", "title": "Pommern (ship)", "text": "Pommern (ship)\n\nPommern, formerly Mneme (1903–1908), is an iron-hulled sailing ship. It is a four-masted barque that was built in 1903 in Glasgow, Scotland at the J. Reid & Co shipyard.\n\n\"Pommern\" (German for Pomerania) is one of the Flying P-Liners, the famous sailing ships of the German shipping company F. Laeisz. In 1921 the Pommern had to be handed over to Greece as war reparation. In 1923 she was acquired by Gustaf Erikson of Mariehamn in the Finnish Åland archipelago, who used her to carry grain from the Spencer Gulf area in Australia to harbours in England or Ireland until the start of World War II.\n\nOn 2 March 1925, \"Pommern\" ran aground at Port Germein, South Australia, but she was refloated and returned to service. \n\nAfter World War II, \"Pommern\" was donated to the town of Mariehamn as a museum ship. It is now a museum ship belonging to the Åland Maritime Museum and is anchored in western Mariehamn, Åland. A collection of photographs taken by Ordinary Seaman Peter Karney in 1933 showing dramatic pictures of life on a sailing ship rounding Cape Horn can be found in the National Maritime Museum at Greenwich.\n\nA 1:35-scale model of \"Pommern\" hangs in Grundtvigs Kirke, in Copenhagen, Denmark, though on being donated to the church in 1939, the model was renamed \"Dronning Alexandrine\" in honour of Denmark's then- queen consort.\n\n\"Pommern\" is so-called \"bald-headed barque\": it does not have royals over her upper topgallant sails. The topsails and topgallant sails have been divided in two (upper and lower) to ease their handling.\n\n\"Pommern\" has the reputation of being a \"lucky ship\". She survived both world wars unscathed, lost only four crew members at sea on her journeys, and won the Great Grain Races twice, 1930 and 1937. \"Pommern\" is thus one of the most popular landmarks of Åland, and is visited by thousands of visitors annually.\n\nIn 2019 Pommern was placed in a purpose-built dock facility that can be pumped dry for periodic maintenance of the ship's hull. \n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2024578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024578", "title": "Joël Bellassen", "text": "Joël Bellassen\n\nJoël (Marc) Bellassen or Bel Lassen (; ; born Sidi-bel-Abbès, French Algeria on 27 May 1950) is a former professor (\"Professeur des universités\") of Chinese at \"Institut National des Langues et Civilisations Orientales\" and the first Inspector General in the field of Chinese Language Teaching at the Ministry of Education (France). He has been well known in his field in France since he co-wrote the book \"Méthode d'Initiation à la Langue et à l'Écriture chinoises\", which became one of the main textbooks used to teach Chinese in French secondary schools. He is now the President of the European Association for Chinese Teaching.\n\nA graduate in Philosophy and Chinese at the Université Paris VIII - Vincennes, he departed for China in 1973, where he studied Philosophy and Chinese at the Beijing Languages Institute and Peking University from 1973 to 1975. Upon his return to France, he set about building the discipline of the teaching of Chinese language. He is particularly known for his pedagogical innovation of the 1980s when he conceived methods to teach Chinese language in primary education which included colour-coding Chinese characters to assist memorising of the four tones in Standard Mandarin (first tone: blue; second tone: yellow; third tone: black; fourth tone: red).\n\nBellassen taught at the École alsacienne in Paris, following by teaching posts at Université Paris VII and then at INALCO. In 2003, Bellassen received the Chinese Language and Culture prize from the Chinese Ministry of Education.\n\nIn 2006 he was made the first Inspector General in the field of Chinese Language Teaching at the French Ministry of National Education. His reference book in the field of Chinese teaching, \"Méthode d'initiation à la langue et à l'écriture chinoises\" (1989, , with the collaboration of Zhang Pengpeng，张朋朋), became one of the main textbooks used to teach Chinese in French secondary schools and which mirrors the international approach of the \"zi benwei\" (字本位 Character-based constructional approach to Chinese). Several of his texts on teaching have been translated into English. He is one of the vice-presidents of the International Chinese Language Teachers Association.\n\n\"Méthode d'Initiation\" broke the mould for Chinese textbooks by diving straight into the use of single Han characters (zh: zì) and only afterwards providing Chinese multi-characters words (zh: cí). The general aim is to immerse the student in the language and culture, with the characters being seen as a primordial element of this.\n\nOne of the main aims of the textbook (which uses Simplified Chinese characters and Standard Chinese pronunciation) is to teach the student 400 essential characters that represent two-thirds of the vocabulary found in modern Chinese texts.\n\nBellassen and Zhang later went on to publish book 2 of the course: \"Perfectionnement à la Langue et à l'Écriture chinoises\" (1991, ; and a double edition including book 1: ). This sequel is even more centred on the characters, with even less grammatical explanation. It aims to teach a further 500 characters and consolidate the absorption of the first 400; these 900 essential characters together represent 91% of the vocabulary found in modern Chinese texts.\nBellassen has published 40 books and more than 90 academic articles. \nBellassen has appeared on French television to promote the study of the Chinese language.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2024586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024586", "title": "YoGo", "text": "YoGo\n\nYoGo is an Australian yogurt dessert snack made by LD&D Australia. It comes in a yogurt tub filled with chocolate yoghurt or custard sealed with a plastic lid. It's mascot is the YoGo Gorilla.\n\nIn Western Australia, YoGo is different and previously was available in the flavours: strawberry, banana and creamy rice; as well as chocolate variants: double-decker and the dirt dessert (which with crumbled chocolate cookie base ‘dirt’, soft gooey marshmallows mixed with chocolate Yogo), which were all discontinued in 2013.\n\nIn Western Australia, a similar yogurt variant, 'Yogo' is produced by Brownes Dairy. Brownes Yogo is sold in Chocolate flavour, but previously also included Strawberry and Dirt Dessert flavours, and a Double Decker range with chocolate and strawberry and a Marshmallow top. Advertising revolved around a purple bird with the slogan \"Gimme Yogo!\".\n"}
{"id": "2024600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024600", "title": "Negativ", "text": "Negativ\n\nMaurits Robert Delchot better known by his stage name Negativ (born 8 September 1982) is a Dutch rapper, actor and radio broadcaster of Surinamese origin from Amsterdam-Oost.\n\nNegativ became part of the rap formation D-Men. He has also acted films like \"Bolletjes Blues\" and \"Complexx\". He also has his own weekly radio show where he DJs for \"Juize FM\" on Fridays.\n\nMaurits was interested at a very young age in rap. He started rapping with a bunch of friends, including Keizer and others. He took part in fNally's band H.S.S. (Hinderlijke Straat Schoften). Soon he became known in the underground rap circuit taking part in several MC battles. One big battle faced him with Yukkie B, another rapper from Amsterdam-Oost (East Amsterdam). This led into several quarrels between the two rappers, after which a series of diss tracks were sent back and forth between the two.\n\nNegativ met Lange Frans already part of a band D-Men alongside his brother Brutus and Bart Zeilstra known as Baas B, and convinced him to join D-Men in 2003, where he contributed greatly to the popular mixtapes of D-Men which were distributed free in the Amsterdam rap circuits, and downloadable online via the website www.straatremixes.tk On two tracks on this mixtape, he dissed the rapper B Yukkie. After the success of the \"De Straatremixes\" in 2003, two new mixtapes, \"De Straatremixes Deel 2\" and \"De Straatremixes Deel 3\" were released in 2004 again with contributions from Negativ.\n\nShortly after the release of his single in January 2005, internal conflicts surfaced between Negativland and his two D-Men colleagues Lange Frans and Baas B who had now formed the duo Lange Frans & Baas B, so he decided to quit D-Men. A few weeks later, a Negativ made an online track and using an instrumental from 50 Cent, he dissed Lange Frans & Baas B. It was a time ramoant of diss recordings including many from The Opposites, Rmxcrew and Tuindorp Hustler Click (THC) dissing other rap acts. Another battle ensued between Negativ and THC in which Negativ recorded \"Dacht je nou echt\" (\"Did you really\"). Rapper Heist Rockah also dissed Negativ back. Negative answers him with the song \"Hou je bek\" (\"Shut up\").\n\nIn 2005 Negativ took part also in the mixtape \"Urban Videoz\" and \"Straathits Volume 1\" and \"Straathits Volume 2\" with DJ MBA. On Loyalty Records he released the hit \"Niets is wat het zijn moet\" with Ebon-E. In 2005, he also had a joint single with Brutus in \"Mijn Feestje\"\n\nIn 2006 Negativ made his film debut, he plays the main character Spike in the movie \"Bolletjes Blues. For this role he was nominated for Golden Calf award at the Netherlands Film Festival in 2006.\n\nIn December 2006, Negativ received negative publicity after he was furious at the Tilburg festival threw a keyboard on the floor, resulting physical commotion to ensue.\n\nIn May 2008, during an interview with Propz Magazine, he confirmed that he had been recording tracks for the street remix \"4 Mixtape\", with other rappers Yes-R, Daryll, Lange Frans & Baas B.\nOn September 26, 2008 mixtape \"Hinderlijk\" (\"Annoying\") was released via Juize.FM radio station, also bringing the single \"Money Money Buit Buit\". The song also featured on a new Dutch television series called \"Flow\". BUT eventually he withdrew his support from the project saying that there was no quarrel,but that \"the only reason why I make music because I like and I do not do anything to make money or because it would be useful for my career.\"\n\nHe was offered a television role as a prisoner in the telefilm \"Skin\", and he starred in the TV series \"Flow\" and entered into the program \"Back2School\".\n\nIn 2009, he released a single \"Skud Skuddem' with a remix single featuring Yes-R, Ali B, Sjaak. He also appeared in a TV documentary about angry people.\n\nIn 2010 he founded his own record label Nindo, where he performed his mixtape \"Hinderlijker\" (\"obnoxious\"). Rapper Keizer, an old friend from earlier days also signed to the label. Later signed Bokoesam to the label\n\n\n\n\n\nAll mixtape releases are on D-Men Entertainment\n\n2003: De straatremixes\n2004: De Straatremixes Deel 2\n2004: De Straatremixes Deel 3\n2003: De Gastenlijst\n2004: Dope Shit\n2005: De Beste Nederhop\n2005: NL Flavour\n2005: Yes-R - Mijn pad\n2006: Kimo & Nina - De Nationale Overname Mixtape\n2006: Nino - Transmigratie (mixtape)\n2006: The Partysquad - De bazen van de club\n2007: Nino - Transmigratie 2\n2007: Nino - Transmigratie 3\n2008: The Partysquad - Total Los! De Mixtape Vol. 1\n2007: Reejon - Regen voor de storm\n2008/2009: Nino - Stilte Voor De Storm\n2009: Dicecream - De blaastest\n2009: PUNA.NL - Propaganda\n2009: Keizer - Straategisch\n2010: Keizer - De oorzaak II\nNegativ has been at both ends of dissing tracks between rappers. Here are his diss track recordings\n\n2006: \"\"'Bolletjes Blues Original Soundtrack\nAnimated movies\n2013: planes as \"Teug\"\n2013: turbo as \"Coole Kanjer\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2024606", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024606", "title": "Oradea International Airport", "text": "Oradea International Airport\n\nOradea Airport is an international airport located southwest of Oradea in northwestern Romania, Bihor County, near one of the main road and rail border crossings to Hungary. Its location near the European route E60 and the future Transylvania motorway as well as the county's high tourist potential (Băile Felix hot springs, Padiş Natural Protected Area etc.) have led to a double digit growth of passenger and cargo traffic for the past two years.\n\nSince its renovation, the airport has been regarded as in a competition with the relatively close airports of Debrecen (82 km away, in Hungary) and Cluj-Napoca (165 km).\n\nIn 2009, Bihor County contracted consultancy services regarding the extension of the runway, the construction of a cargo terminal, and the renovation of the passenger terminal. The airport terminal is now renovated to EU (and Schengen) standards, and offers various specific facilities and modern amenities such as car rental, exchange offices, various shops, etc.\n\nRegarding the runway (and other connected facilities), the Bihor County Commission completed the final contractual formalities with the EU Commission representatives, as this type of infrastructure work was eligible for European funds. A €30 million financial agreement for the EU funds was signed on 7 February 2014. Works on the new runway, two rapid-exit taxiways and other facility buildings began on 20 October 2014. Concerning the cargo area, the Bihor County Commission has budgeted the resources needed for the first part of the project.\n\nThe construction works for the runway modernization were completed on 30 October 2015.\n\nRyanair operated flights from the airport to Bergamo, Girona (both since March 2017), Eindhoven, Memmingen, London-Stansted and Weeze (since October 2017), but, in March 2018, the company announced its retirement from the airport by the end of October 2018. This happens despite claims by local officials that the company received subsidies under the ex-ante scheme and had a booking percentage of over 85% or 95%, and the fact that the airport had significantly lower tariffs than the other airports in the region.\n\nSince April 2009, the NATO Centre of Excellence in Oradea is a member of NATO's Centres of Excellence (COE) network. All aircraft involved in Oradea's NATO Centre of Excellence activities utilize the Oradea International Airport.\n\nA MEDIVAC helicopter is based at Oradea International Airport. It is operated by the Pelican Hospital's Emergency Service. It serves Bihor, Sălaj, Satu Mare, Maramureș and Arad Counties Emergency Services. The air ambulance transports persons to Level I trauma centers located in Bucharest.\n\n\nOradea Transport Local provides a bus service (No.28) between Oradea International Airport and the city centre of Oradea. The price of a ticket is 6 RON. The timetable of this route is adjusted to the arrivals and departures of the flights. Cabs/taxis are also available. The price of a ride to the city centre is about 30 RON.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2024607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024607", "title": "The Story of the Amulet", "text": "The Story of the Amulet\n\nThe Story of the Amulet is a novel for children, written in 1906 by English author Edith Nesbit.\n\nIt is the final part of a trilogy of novels that also includes \"Five Children and It\" (1902) and \"The Phoenix and the Carpet\" (1904). In it the children re-encounter the Psammead—the \"it\" in \"Five Children and It\". As it no longer grants wishes to the children, however, its capacity is mainly advisory in relation to the children's other discovery, the Amulet, thus following a formula successfully established in \"The Phoenix and the Carpet\".\n\nGore Vidal writes, \"It is a time machine story, only the device is not a machine but an Egyptian amulet whose other half is lost in the past. By saying certain powerful words, the amulet becomes a gate through which the children are able to visit the past or future. ... a story of considerable beauty.\"\n\nAt the beginning of this book, the journalist father of Robert, Anthea, Cyril, and Jane has gone overseas to cover the war in Manchuria. Their mother has gone to Madeira to recuperate from an illness, taking with her their younger brother, the Lamb. The children are living with an old Nurse (Mrs Green) who has set up a boarding house in central London. Her only other boarder is a scholarly Egyptologist who has filled his bedsit with ancient artefacts. During the course of the book, the children get to know the \"poor learned gentleman\" and befriend him and call him Jimmy.\n\nNurse's house is in Fitzrovia, the district of London near the British Museum, which Nesbit accurately conveys as having bookstalls and shops filled with unusual merchandise. In one of these shops the children find the Psammead. It had been captured by a trapper, who failed to recognise it as a magical being. The terrified creature cannot escape, for it can only grant wishes to others, not to itself. Using a ruse, the children persuade the shopkeeper to sell them the \"mangy old monkey\", and they free their old friend.\n\nGuided by the Psammead, the children purchase an ancient amulet in the shape of an Egyptian Tyet (a small amulet of very similar shape to the picture can be seen in the British Museum today) which should be able to grant them their hearts' desire: the safe return of their parents and baby brother. But this amulet is only half of an original whole. By itself, it cannot grant their hearts' desire. Yet it can serve as a portal, enabling time travel to find the other half.\n\nIn the course of the novel the Amulet transports the children and the Psammead to times and places where the Amulet has previously existed, in the hope that – at some point in time – the children can find the Amulet's missing half. Among the ancient realms they visit are Babylon, Egypt, the Phoenician city of Tyre, a ship to \"the Tin Islands\" (ancient Cornwall), and Atlantis just before the flood. In one chapter, they meet Julius Caesar on the shores of Gaul, just as he has decided that Britain is not worth invading. Jane's childish prattling about the glories of England persuades Caesar to invade after all.\n\nIn each of their time-jaunts, the children are magically able to speak and comprehend the contemporary language. Nesbit acknowledges this in her narration, without offering any explanation. The children eventually bring \"Jimmy\" (the \"Learned Gentleman\") along with them on some of their time trips. For some reason, Jimmy does not share the children's magical gift of fluency in the local language: he can only understand (for example) Latin based on his own studies.\n\nIn one chapter the children also come to the future, visiting a British utopia in which H.G. Wells is venerated as a reformer. Wells and Nesbit were both members of the Fabian political movement, as was George Bernard Shaw, and this chapter in \"The Story of the Amulet\" is essentially different from all the other trips in the narrative: whereas all the other adventures in this novel contain scrupulously detailed accounts of past civilisations, the children's trip into the future represents Nesbit's vision of Utopia. This episode can be compared to many other visions of utopian socialist futures published in that era; Nesbit's is notable in that it concentrates on how the life of children at school would be radically different, with economic changes only appearing briefly in the background. (It seems somewhat akin to William Morris's \"News from Nowhere\".) It also mentions a pressing danger of Edwardian England: the number of children wounded, burned, and killed each year. (This concern was addressed in the Children Act 1908, and later in the Children's Charter.)\n\n\"The Story of the Amulet\" profits greatly from Nesbit's deep research into ancient civilisations in general and that of ancient Egypt in particular. The book is dedicated to Sir E. A. Wallis Budge, the translator of the \"Egyptian Book of the Dead\" and Keeper of Egyptian and Assyrian Antiquities of the British Museum, with whom she met to discuss the history of the ancient Near East while writing the book. The Amulet is sentient and is named Ur Hekau Setcheh; this is a genuine Ancient Egyptian name. The hieroglyphics written on the back of the Amulet are also authentic.\n\n\"Amulet\" coincidentally appeared the same year as the first instalment of another story involving children viewing different periods of history, Rudyard Kipling's \"Puck of Pook's Hill\".\n\nDuring their adventure in Babylon, the children attempt to summon a Babylonian deity named Nisroch but are temporarily unable to recall his name: Cyril, in an obvious in-joke, refers to the god as \"Nesbit\". Author E. Nesbit was a member of the Hermetic Order of the Golden Dawn, and was knowledgeable about ancient religions; she may well have been aware that there was indeed an ancient deity named Nesbit: this was the Egyptian god of the fifth hour of the day. In F. Gwynplaine MacIntyre's novel \"The Woman Between the Worlds\" (1994, taking place in 1898), E. Nesbit briefly appears in the narrative, dressed in costume as the Egyptian god Nesbit.\n\nThe chapter \"The Queen in London\" contains broadly negative stereotypes of stockbrokers clearly intended to be Jewish: they are described as having \"curved noses\"; they have Jewish names such as Levinstein, Rosenbaum, Hirsh and Cohen; and their dialogue is rendered in an exaggerated dialect of Yiddish-inflected English. They are depicted as shuddering at the thought of poor people eating good food, and then they are massacred by the queen's guards. Another character in the book, the shopkeeper Jacob Absalom, is hinted at being Jewish and is depicted negatively.\n\nThe chapter \"The Queen in London\" satirises contemporary occult belief. A journalist mistakes the Queen of Babylon for the Theosophist Annie Besant (like Nesbit, a socialist and social reformer) and mentions Theosophy in reference to (to him) inexplicable events taking place in the British Museum). \"Thought-transference\" (telepathy) also gets a mention as part of an elaborate and mistaken rationalisation by the Learned Gentleman of Anthea's stories of the Queen and ancient Babylon.\n\nThe eponymously named ninth chapter, which takes place in Atlantis, though primarily inspired by Plato's dialogue Critias, also borrows such details from C. J. Cutcliffe Hyne's novel \"\" (1899), such as the presence of mammoths, dinosaurs, and a volcanic mountain on the island.\n\nThe final chapter in which the lonely Learned Gentleman and the quixotic ancient Egyptian priest fuse into a single being, with the ritual being overseen by Anthea, is one of the most stirring and unusual moments in the book. It almost appears to represent a marriage, not just of intellect and ancient knowledge, but also of love.\n\nSeveral elements in \"The Story of the Amulet\" were borrowed by C. S. Lewis for his Narnia series, particularly \"The Horse and His Boy\" (1954) and \"The Magician's Nephew\" (1955). The Calormene god Tash closely resembles the deity Nisroch, whose name may also have influenced the title of the Calormene king, the Tisroc. Lewis's Tisroc, like Nesbit's King of Babylon, must have his name followed by \"may he live forever\", and the appearance of Jadis, Queen of Charn, in London in \"The Magician's Nephew\", and the havoc she causes there, closely parallel the Queen of Babylon's eventful journey to London.\n\nIn the third canto of his poem \"Villon\" (written 1925, published 1930), British modernist poet Basil Bunting stated he took the image of two drops of quicksilver (mercury) merging from Nesbit’s \"The Story of the Amulet\" and described her work as the “pleasantest reading of my childhood”.\n\n"}
{"id": "2024630", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024630", "title": "LMS 6399 Fury", "text": "LMS 6399 Fury\n\nThe London Midland and Scottish Railway (LMS) No. 6399 \"Fury\" was an unsuccessful British experimental express passenger locomotive. The intention was to save fuel by using high-pressure steam, which is thermodynamically more efficient than low-pressure steam.\n\nBuilt in 1929 by the NBL (North British Locomotive Company) in Glasgow, it was one of a number of steam locomotives built around the world in the search for \"Superpower steam\". The locomotive was a joint venture between the London, Midland and Scottish Railway (LMS), with Henry Fowler as Chief Mechanical Engineer (C.M.E.) and The Superheater Company with the latter having responsibility for constructing the complex, 3 stage Schmidt-based boiler. The LMS provided a Royal Scot frame and running gear. However, Carney shows that the frames for Fury were not standard Royal Scot frames, but longer. For the complex boiler, John Brown & Company of Sheffield forged the special nickel-steel alloy high pressure drum and many boiler fittings were imported from Germany but otherwise all manufacture was carried out by NBL.\n\nA 3-cylindered semi-compound compound locomotive, it had one high-pressure cylinder between the frames (11.5 inch bore) and two larger low-pressure outside cylinders (18 inch bore). The Schmidt steam-raising boiler was a 3-stage unit. The primary generator was a fully sealed ultra-high-pressure circuit working between 1400 and 1800 psi (9.7 to 12.4 MPa), filled with distilled water that transferred heat from the firebox to the high-pressure drum. This raised high-pressure steam at 900 psi (6.2 MPa) which was taken to power the cylinders and also recirculate pure water. The third steam raising unit was a relatively conventional locomotive fire tube boiler operating at 250 psi (1.7 MPa) heated by combustion gases from the coal fire. The engine was technically an \"\"ultra-high pressure, semi-compound steam locomotive\"\". It was given the LMS number 6399 and then inherited the name Fury from LMS 6138, which had itself been renamed in October 1929.\n\nAfter short runs during January 1930, a longer test run from Glasgow to Carstairs was scheduled for 10 February 1930. Approaching Carstairs station at slow speed, one of the ultra-high-pressure tubes burst and the escaping steam ejected the coal fire through the fire-hole door, killing Mr Lewis Schofield of the Superheater Company. Subsequently the burst tube was thoroughly investigated at Sheffield University but no definitive conclusion reached. The boiler was eventually repaired and Fury moved to Derby where a number of running trials were carried out until early 1934, mostly revealing significant shortcomings in performance. Fury's rods and linkages were then removed together with the indicator shelter and test gear when in 1935 it was rebuilt by William Stanier at Crewe Works with a more conventional type 2 boiler becoming 6170 \"British Legion\", the first of the LMS 2 and 2A boilered 4-6-0 locomotives.\nDespite the accident, Fury was primarily an economic rather than a technological failure. Although tolerating the trials from Derby, Stanier didn't devote much effort to rectifying the faults Fury displayed, no doubt because of his many other work pressures and development of the LMS Turbomotive. Nevertheless, Fury never earned revenue for the LMS and in fact \"\"Fury must have travelled more miles under tow than under its own steam\"\". As many other experimental locomotives showed, the theoretical benefits of ultra high steam pressure steam were hard to realise in practice. Fuel is only one part of the operating costs of a steam locomotive—maintenance is very significant, and introducing extra complications always increased this disproportionally.\n\nIn France, the \"Chemins de fer de Paris à Lyon et à la Méditerranée\" had bought a Schmidt system 4-8-2 locomotive (no. 241.B.1) and in 1933 this too suffered a burst ultra high pressure tube. The failure was investigated and if a single conclusion could be reached following both incidents, it was that inadequate water circulation in the ultra high pressure circuit was responsible.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2024635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024635", "title": "Cornwallis Code", "text": "Cornwallis Code\n\nThe Cornwallis Code is a body of legislation enacted in 1793 by the East India Company to improve the governance of its territories in India. The Code was developed under the guidance of Charles, Earl (Lord)\nCornwallis, who served as Governor of Bengal from 1786 to 1793\n\nThe code contained significant provisions governing, policing and judicial and civil administration. Its best known provision was the Permanent Settlement (or the zamindari system enacted in 1793), which established a revenue collection scheme that lasted until the 20th century. Beginning with Bengal, the system spread over all of northern India by means of the issue of a series of regulations dated 1 May 1793. On these the government of British India virtually rested until the Charter Act of 1833.\n\nThe system, as codified in these regulations, provided that the East India Company’s service personnel be divided into three branches: revenue, judicial, and commercial. Private trade was forbidden to the members of the first two branches, and they were instead compensated by a new and generous scale of pay. The land revenue assessment (the major source of revenue) was fixed permanently with zamindars, or hereditary revenue collectors. These native Indians, provided they paid their land taxes punctually, were treated as landowners, but they were deprived of magisterial and police functions, which were discharged by a newly organized government police. This “permanent settlement” provided the British with an Indian landed class interested in supporting British authority. The local administration was placed in the hands of the revenue collectors of districts. The judiciary was reorganized; there were district judges with magisterial powers responsible to provincial courts in civil cases and to courts of circuit in criminal cases. The law administered was Hindu and Muslim personal law and a modified Muslim criminal code. The higher ranks of the services were restricted to the British, thus depriving the Indians of any responsible office.\n\nAs a whole, the system gave social and political stability to Bengal at the price of neglecting the rights of the lesser landholders and undertenants and of excluding Indians from any responsible share in the administration.\n"}
{"id": "2024639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024639", "title": "Bracknell, Tasmania", "text": "Bracknell, Tasmania\n\nBracknell is a small rural town in northern Tasmania, Australia that was established to serve the needs of the forestry industry but is now a centre for the local farming community.\n\nThe township of Bracknell was surveyed prior to 1859, at which time an auction of town blocks was held, but only became established in the early 1870s. By 1874 there was a church, two school buildings, a hotel and several other buildings. The town's land had formerly been owned by the Church of England. All the streets in Bracknell have been given female names, a curiosity that dates from when the town was laid out. The current hotel has been in operation since 1880, originally as the Enfield Hotel. The post office opened on 1 August 1872.\n\nThe first Methodist services in the town were held in a barn around November to December 1863. As the congregation grew a church was needed and so the foundation stone for a Primitive Methodist chapel was laid on 14 October 1864. This first church was later removed so the current building could be constructed on its site. A parsonage was added in 1902, the year of the Methodist union that formed the Methodist Church of Australasia. The present church's foundation stone was laid 4 April 1922 and it was opened the same year at a cost of 1250 pounds. The church became part of the Uniting Church in Australia in 1977 and remains in use. The foundation stone of an Anglican church, St James, was laid December 1931 and the church consecrated April 1932. When opened the church was part of the Church of England parish of Cressy. St James' was later closed and the Diocese of Tasmania sold it in 2011.\n\nBracknell is a rural area with mixed farming enterprises. There are no major businesses in town so people have to travel for employment. The town itself is bounded on the east by the Liffey River. The town has a store, service station, post office, two halls, and a hotel. Its economy is based on mostly dairy, livestock, and poppy (\"Papaver somniferum\") production for the Tasmanian opium poppy industry.\n\nBracknell primary school has pupils from, grades 1 through 6. The school became an area school in 1950 and in the 1960s educated pupils through to grade 9. A football club was first formed in 1899. The town's Australian rules football club, the Redlegs, began playing sometime after World War I and played in the Esk Football Association and the Esk Deloraine Football Association, winning three grand finals. They joined the Northern Tasmanian Football Association in 1998, and play in the association's first division. Cricket has been played in the town since at least 1883 and a team, as of 2015, plays in the amateur Northern Midlands Cricket Association.\n\nBracknell is in the Meander Valley Council local government area, the state Division of Lyons, the federal Division of Lyons and the state Legislative Council division of McIntyre.\n\n"}
{"id": "2024640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024640", "title": "Heroes (novel)", "text": "Heroes (novel)\n\nHeroes is a 1998 novel written by Robert Cormier. The novel is centred on the character Francis Cassavant, who has just returned to his childhood home of Frenchtown, Monument (in Massachusetts), from serving in the Second World War in France and has severe deformities as a result of an incident during the war. The structure of the novel involves the use of flashbacks to Francis's childhood in Frenchtown and the events in Frenchtown following the war, when Francis returns.\n\nThe themes of betrayal and trust are portrayed when we find that Francis' Uncle Louis is found to be a traitor and the Monument comb shop is closed down while the military police investigate. Some have said that this might be based on Cormier's father as Cormier wrote that his father was very mysterious. The novel has a very complicated outlook on heroism and what defines a hero. Francis is considered to be a hero as his actions during the war saved the lives of others.\n\nReligion is also a key theme as Francis is a devoted Catholic. The place of religion within the community of Frenchtown is often emphasised and the values instilled through his Catholic upbringing affects the decisions that Francis makes throughout his life. He also doesn't acknowledge that he is a hero he says that he was just there.\n\nThere are three main characters in the book:\nThere are many other characters in the novel that are important but not as important as Francis, Nicole and Larry:\n\nMany of the flashbacks in the novel refer to the Great Depression which was an effect of the Wall Street Crash of 1929. Many families then were poor and underfed. in 1932, Franklin Roosevelt was elected. He began the New Deal, which aimed to solve some of the problems within the country, such as unemployment. One of the schemes was for the government to employ people. This is seen in chapter 5 where Francis talks about people, renovating the 'Wreck Centre', who had been hired under a new municipal program.\n\nOn 7 December 1941, the Japanese Empire carried out through the attack on Pearl Harbor, a Hawaiian island. The US then came into the Second World War taking them out of the policy of isolationism.\n\nFighting occurs both in Europe, where Francis is deployed, and in the Pacific. The novel explores the effects of Pearl Harbor on Frenchtown, as the Wreck Centre closes because of Larry's absence. Many men are recruited to the armed forces, and women are given service jobs in the local factories to make products for the war effort.\n\nThe GI Bil is mentioned in the text in regards to the later plans of the veterans, which they discuss in the St Jude Club. Joe LaFontaine speaks about how the government would be willing to pay for his college education and intends to become a teacher. However, the positive outlook is shown to be false, as the veterans are later presented as pessimistic people, especially Arthur Rivier, who struggles to cope with not talking about the war.\n\n\"Publishers Weekly\" called it a “thriller” that “will hold fans from first page to last.” It also said it had \"complex characters\", the “audience will tensely await the inevitable”. It had \"complex characters\" and the author was \"at the top of his game.\" Besides, \"what really lurks behind the face of a hero, and Hassan Hassan.\"\n\nAs of 2012, this novel has been studied in Wales and England by many students aged 14 to 16 as part of the GCSE English Literature syllabus under the WJEC examination board.\n"}
{"id": "2024641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024641", "title": "The Ed and Zed Show", "text": "The Ed and Zed Show\n\nThe Ed and Zed Show is a BBC children's television programme which ran for nine episodes between October and December 1970.\n\nIt was presented by the disc jockey Ed Stewart, nicknamed \"Stewpot\", and was co-hosted by Zed, the \"rebel robot\". Zed was often cheeky to the sometimes bad-tempered Stewart.\n\nThis programme is now of very minor significance, except for one point. While the theme of robots rebelling against their masters is a common one in culture, this is quite possibly the only case where the audience were supposed to be on the robot's side.\n\nOne feature of the robot was that at the end of every show except the last, he would overload himself by going into hysteric laughter causing smoke to billow out of his back.\n\nThe programme featured excerpts from The Wizard of Oz and the newest Walt Disney films as well as a weekly music guest, including early appearances by Mud and Hot Chocolate. Out of a total of nine episodes that were made, seven still exist.\n\n"}
{"id": "2024656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024656", "title": "Command of the sea", "text": "Command of the sea\n\nCommand of the sea (also called control of the sea or sea control) is a naval military concept regarding the strength of a particular navy to a specific naval area it controlled. A navy has command of the sea when it is so strong that its rivals cannot attack it directly. This dominance may apply to its surrounding waters (i.e., the littoral) or may extend far into the oceans, meaning the country has a blue-water navy. It is the naval equivalent of air supremacy.\n\nWith command of the sea, a country (or alliance) can ensure that its own military and merchant ships can move around at will, while its rivals are forced either to stay in port or to try to evade it. It also enables free use of amphibious operations that can expand ground-based strategic options. The British Royal Navy held command of the sea for most of the period between the 18th to the early 20th centuries, allowing Britain and its allies to trade and to move troops and supplies easily in wartime, while its enemies could not. In the post-World War II period, the United States Navy has had command of the sea.\n\nFew navies can operate as blue-water navies, but \"many States are converting green-water navies to blue-water navies and this will increase military use of foreign Exclusive Economic Zones [littoral zone to 200 nautical miles (370 km)] with possible repercussions for the EEZ regime.\"\n\nGradually, however, countries agreed that the open seas should be free to all shipping in peacetime and to neutral shipping in wartime. Great Britain accepted the principle in 1805; Russia, in 1824; and the United States (tacitly) in 1894. Many treaties, including the Treaty of Versailles, have dealt with the open seas, and currently the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea is an attempt to formalise this freedom.\n\nHistorically, many powers attempted to extend command of the sea into peacetime, imposing taxes or other restrictions on shipping using areas of open sea. For example, Venice claimed the Adriatic, and exacted a heavy toll from vessels navigating its northern waters. Genoa and France each claimed portions of the western Mediterranean. Denmark and Sweden claimed to share the Baltic between them. Spain claimed dominion over the Pacific and the Gulf of Mexico, and Portugal over the Indian Ocean and all the Atlantic south of Morocco (Hall, 148-9).\n\nDuring the age of sail, there were two primary counter measures to another power holding control of the sea: smuggling, and privateering. Smuggling helped to ensure that a country could continue trading (and obtaining food and other vital supplies) even when under blockade, while privateering allowed the weaker power to disrupt the stronger power's trade. As these measures, which are examples of asymmetric warfare, came from non-governmental and sometimes criminal organizations, they fell into disfavor with stronger governments. An annex to the Treaty of Paris (1856) banned privateering. That treaty was an oddity in that it was ratified by relatively few countries, but quickly became the \"de facto\" law of the sea.\n\nA more modern countermeasure, similar to privateering, was the use of submarine warfare by Germany during World War I and World War II to attack allied merchant shipping primarily in the Atlantic Ocean, Mediterranean Sea, and Baltic Sea.\n\nDuring World War II, aircraft also became an effective countermeasure to command of the sea, since ships could not defend themselves well against air attack. The Battle of Britain was largely an attempt by Germany to eliminate the Royal Air Force, so that it would not be able to defend the Royal Navy from air attack and even to allow a maritime invasion of Great Britain proper.\n\nAdvanced navies, with access to surveillance satellites and large-scale submarine detection systems, can rarely be surprised at sea, but cannot be everywhere. Individual ships of advanced navies can be vulnerable at sea (e.g., the hit by an aircraft-delivered anti-ship missile while patrolling the Persian Gulf) or in port (e.g., by the suicide attack on the .)\n\n\"Blue-water\" (high seas) naval capability means that a fleet is able to operate on the \"high seas.\" While traditionally a distinction was made between the coastal brown-water navy (operating in the littoral zone to 200 nautical miles (370 km) and a seagoing blue-water navy, a new term, \"green-water navy,\" has been created by the U.S. Navy, which refers to the coastal submarines and fast attack boats of many nations, the larger littoral combat corvettes and similar vessels of a substantial number of powers, and amphibious vessels ranging from elderly LSTs to complex S/VTOL carriers and other specialized ships. \n\nIn modern warfare blue-water navy implies self-contained force protection from sub-surface, surface and airborne threats and a sustainable logistic reach, allowing a persistent presence at range. In some maritime environments such a defence is given by natural obstacles, such as the Arctic ice shelf.\n\nThe US Navy studied a concept for an economically priced ship capable of surface and subsurface sea control with ASW helicopters and STOVL fighters for light air defense but not large enough to be well suited to power projection known as a Sea Control Ship. This small aircraft carrier was not built by the US although a long deck Amphibious assault ship equipped with STOVL fighters and ASW helicopters instead of its primary transport helicopters is operating in a secondary sea control role.\n\nDuring the Falklands War, the British lacked long-range Airborne Warning and Control System (AWACS), which led to ship losses and major damage to others, when the Argentinian attack aircraft came into the view of ship radar at approximately the same time they would fire antiship missiles, and only a short time before they made bombing attacks. A number of navies have learned this lesson. Many navies with STOVL carriers have developed helicopter-mounted AWACS like the British and Spanish Westland Sea King AEW, Italian EH-101 AEW, and the Russian Ka-31 AEW helicopter. Recently the French with a new larger CATOBAR aircraft carrier obtained the US E-2 Hawkeye AWACS aircraft.\n\nAn example for the difference between a blue-water navy and a green-water navy: \"...The first should be a 'green-water active defense' that would enable the People's Liberation Army Navy to protect China's territorial waters and enforce its sovereignty claims in the Taiwan Strait and the South China Sea. The second phase would be to develop a blue-water navy capable of projecting power into the western Pacific . . . Liu [commander in chief of the PLAN 1982-88 and vice chairman of the Central Military Commission 1989-97] believed that in order to fulfill a blue-water capability, the PLAN had to obtain aircraft carriers . . .\" Aircraft carriers are deployed with other specialized vessels in carrier battle groups, providing protection against sub-surface, surface and airborne threats.\n\nAs there is no clear definition of a blue-water navy, the status is disputed. Given the importance of naval aviation, the term may be considered to be strongly linked to the maintenance of aircraft carriers capable of operating in the oceans. \"In the early 80s there was a bitter and very public battle fought over whether or not to replace Australia's last aircraft carrier, HMAS \"Melbourne\". Senior navy personnel warned without a carrier, Australia would be vulnerable to all types of threat. One ex-Chief of Navy went so far as to claim that we\" (the Australians) \"would no longer have a blue-water navy (one capable of operating away from friendly coasts).\" Yet although the Royal Thai Navy operates a sea-going carrier, the RTN is not absolutely a \"blue-water navy.\"\n\nWhile a \"blue-water navy\" can project sea control power into another nation's littoral, it remains susceptible to threats from less capable forces. Sustainment and logistics at range yield high costs and there may be a saturation advantage over a deployed force through the use of land-based air or surface-to-surface missile assets (whether on terrain-following or ballistic trajectories), diesel-electric submarines, or asymmetric tactics such as Fast Inshore Attack Craft. An example of this vulnerability was the October 2000 USS \"Cole\" bombing in Aden. In response to these threats, the U.S. Navy has developed Littoral Combat Ship (LCS).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2024657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024657", "title": "Péter Doszpot", "text": "Péter Doszpot\n\nPéter Doszpot (born 4 December 1962, in Debrecen) was a Hungarian Member of Parliament and a member of Hungarian Socialist Party. After the elections in 2002, he was working as the vice president of Parliament's policing committee. Formerly, he was one of the most famous policemen working on high-profile murder cases in Hungary. He was often referred to as the \"starcop\". \nHis nephew's biographical book about him was published in 2001.\n\nHe is married and has two sons, Márk and Gergő.\n\n"}
{"id": "2024661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024661", "title": "Bishopsbourne, Tasmania", "text": "Bishopsbourne, Tasmania\n\nBishopsbourne is a farming community in northern Tasmania, Australia. It has a population of only 78 (2016). It has a church, graveyard and recreation ground. Nearby towns include Carrick, Bracknell and Longford. Almost all the houses and farms are located on Bishopsbourne Road and there are a few back roads.\n\nBishopsbourne Post Office opened on 31 December 1846 and closed in 1976.\n\nThere has been increased activity of development in recent years, though none of it has been commercial.\n\nBishopsbourne has a Cricket team that play been in the local competition for about 70 years\n"}
{"id": "2024664", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024664", "title": "Testem benevolentiae nostrae", "text": "Testem benevolentiae nostrae\n\nTestem benevolentiae nostrae is a letter written by Pope Leo XIII to Cardinal James Gibbons, Archbishop of Baltimore, dated January 22, 1899. In it, the pope addressed a heresy he called Americanism, and expressed his concern that the American Church should guard against American values of liberalism and pluralism undermining the doctrine of the Church.\n\n\"Testem benevolentiae nostrae\" translates as \"Witness to Our Good Will.\" The Pope was concerned about the culture of Catholics in the United States, in response to the preface of the French translation of the biography of Isaac Thomas Hecker. Hecker's biography reached France eleven years after Father Hecker had died (in good standing with the Church), and its French translation included a liberal preface by Abbé Félix Klein. Leo proposed to review certain opinions expressed by the translator in the book about Isaac Hecker. In particular: The Church should adapt to the new advanced civilization and relax her disciplines regarding not only the rule of life but also the deposit of faith, passing-over or minimizing certain points of doctrine, or giving to them a new meaning which the Church had never held.\n\n\"Testem benevolentiae nostrae\" involved American particularism and view of individual liberty. On particularism it was believed that a movement of American Catholics felt they were a special case who needed greater latitude in order to assimilate into a majority Protestant nation. The letter rejected the idea of \"some who conceive and would have the Church in America to be different from what it is in the rest of the world. (In 1892, certain immigrant support associations, while advocating for the establishment of national parishes in order that the congregations could be served by priests who understood the language and culture, pressed for the appointment of bishops to reflect representation of each nationality. This caused considerable disturbance among the American hierarchy.) The letter reiterated that Catholic teaching was the same throughout the world and not to be adjusted to suit a particular area.\n\nDuring the 19th century, Catholic doctrine articulated that Protestantism was a heresy and even a harmful new religious movement, although the Church under Leo did indicate individual Protestants might well be innocent due to \"invincible ignorance\". Still, Protestant religions themselves were not to be learned from or accepted as equals. Outside of this issue the article gave the consolation that Catholicism could accommodate to American norms when they did not conflict with doctrinal or moral teachings of the Catholic Church.\n\nThe letter actually had more to do with Catholics in France than those in the United States. French conservatives were appalled at Abbé Klein's remarks in a book about an American priest, and claimed that a number of the American Catholic clergy shared these views. Hence, in many ways, the article was more a warning to France that its Republic was becoming too liberal or secularist.\n\nHe expresses concern lest Americans would value their freedom and individualism so much they would reject the idea of monasteries and the priesthood. \"Did not your country, the United States, derive the beginnings both of faith and of culture from the children of these religious families?\" Again this is more about the anticlericalism in France at the time.\n\nIt was not uncommon for American bishops, finding themselves having to provide education and health care to large numbers of immigrants, pointedly solicited congregations involved in those activities. Leo cautioned against valuing an active apostolate more than a contemplative one. \"Nor should any difference of praise be made between those who follow the active state of life and those others who, charmed with solitude, give themselves to prayer and bodily mortification.\"\n\nIn November 1892 at a meeting of the archbishops held in New York City, Bishop Francesco Satolli, soon to be the first Apostolic delegate to the United States, presented fourteen propositions regarding the solution of certain school problems which had been for some time under discussion. The draft propositions were \"inopportunely\" published, with incorrect interpretations and malign insinuations in some papers, causing a good deal of \"acrid\" discussion.\n\n\"Testem benevolentiae nostrae\" clearly rejects full freedom of the press.\"These dangers, viz., the confounding of license with liberty, the passion for discussing and pouring contempt upon any possible subject, the assumed right to hold whatever opinions one pleases upon any subject and to set them forth in print to the world, have so wrapped minds in darkness that there is now a greater need of the Church's teaching office than ever before, lest people become unmindful both of conscience and of duty.\" Defenders of the document believe criticizing press freedom was understandable in an age of increasing libel, slander, and incitements of violence in newspapers. Newspaper stories of convents had already inflamed anti-Catholic violence. Further the Spanish–American War, which many Catholics opposed, was often blamed on William Randolph Hearst's newspapers and had occurred a year before the letter. Opponents of \"Testem benevolentiae nostrae\" believe it displayed an ongoing Vatican opposition to democracy and progress.\n\nStill, both sides tend to agree that Leo XIII wrote in a less condemnatory or at least more tactful manner than most of his immediate predecessors. Critics state this is merely because his immediate predecessors were or became strident reactionaries like Pope Pius IX. Supporters cite the fact that his encyclical on Americanism, \"Longinqua\", spoke of love for America more than condemnation of it.\n\nThe brief did not assert that Hecker and the Americans had held any unsound doctrine. Instead, it merely stated that if such opinions did exist, the Pope called upon the hierarchy to eradicate them. Cardinal Gibbons and many other prelates replied to Rome. With a near-unanimous voice, they declared that the incriminated opinions had no existence among American Catholics. Hecker never had countenanced the slightest departure from Catholic principles in their fullest and most strict application. The disturbance caused by the condemnation was slight; almost the entire laity and a considerable part of the clergy were unaware of this affair. However, the pope's brief did end up strengthening the position of the conservatives in France.\n\nThe legacy of \"Testem benevolentiae nostrae\" is disputed. Among Traditionalist Catholics today there remains widespread support for its statements against ecumenicalism and liberalism. In more liberal circles, however, scholars maintain that it largely destroyed Catholic intellectual life in the US for the first half of the twentieth century. And yet, many others hold that its importance has been exaggerated. It does, however, highlight the uneasy relationship between the Holy See and the United States, a country which did not give full diplomatic relations with the Holy See until the presidency of Ronald Reagan in the 1980s.\n\nSome historians believe the letter was really directed at liberal currents in France.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2024666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024666", "title": "Diana Lee", "text": "Diana Lee\n\nDiana Lee or Diana Lee-Hsu is an American model and actress.\n\nLee was chosen as Playboy's Playmate of the Month for May 1988. Her centerfold was photographed by Stephen Wayda and Richard Fegley. As an actress, she performed in several Playboy videos and had an appearance in the 1989 James Bond movie \"Licence to Kill\". In the film, Lee played Loti, a Hong Kong narcotic agent. She also is prominently featured in the film's title sequence.\n\n"}
{"id": "2024677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024677", "title": "Sinfonia antartica", "text": "Sinfonia antartica\n\nSinfonia antartica (\"Antarctic Symphony\") is the Italian title given by the English composer Ralph Vaughan Williams to his seventh symphony.\n\nVaughan Williams provided the music for the film \"Scott of the Antarctic\" in 1947, and was so inspired by the subject that he incorporated much of the music into a symphony. The piece was begun in 1949, and composition completed in 1952, with a dedication to Ernest Irving. The first performance took place on 14 January 1953 in Manchester with Sir John Barbirolli conducting the Hallé Orchestra; the soprano soloist was Margaret Ritchie. The first American performance was given by Rafael Kubelík and the Chicago Symphony Orchestra on 2 April 1953.\n\nThe work is scored for a large orchestra including:\n\nThere is also a wordless three-part women's chorus and solo soprano, who sing only in the first and last movements.\n\nA typical performance lasts around 45 minutes. There are five movements. The composer specified that the third movement lead directly into the fourth. The score includes a brief literary quotation at the start of each movement. They are sometimes declaimed in performance (and recordings), although the composer did not say that they were intended to form part of a performance of the work.\n\n1. Prelude: \"Andante maestoso\"\n<score vorbis=\"1\"> { \\new PianoStaff « \\new Staff \\relative c' { \\clef treble \\time 3/4 \\tempo \"Andante maestoso\" 4 = 80 ees2\\p( f4 | g4. a8 b4~ | b\\< c\\!\\> b\\!) } \\new Staff \\relative c' { \\clef bass \\time 3/4 <bes ges ees,>2.( | <d b g,> | <ees aes, aes,>) } » } </score>\n\n2. Scherzo: \"Moderato\"\n<score vorbis=\"1\"> \\relative c' { \\clef treble \\key bes \\major \\time 6/8 \\tempo \"Moderato\" 4. = 58 <f d bes ges>4.\\p <d c bes g>8 <f d bes ges>4 | <ges c, bes f>2. } </score>\n\n3. Landscape: \"Lento\"\n<score vorbis=\"1\"> { \\new PianoStaff « \\new Staff \\relative c { \\clef treble \\numericTimeSignature \\time 4/4 \\tempo \"Lento\" 4 = 72 R1 | r8 4(\\pp <gis fis>8~ <gis fis>4~ <gis fis>8) r | r8 4( <gis fis>8~ <gis fis>4~ <gis fis>8) r | « { s1 | r8 4( <gis fis>8~ <gis fis>4~ <gis fis>8) r } \\\\ { r4 a,(\\mp bes des | bes2 a) } » } \\new Staff \\relative c { \\clef bass \\numericTimeSignature \\time 4/4 e,1\\trill\\ppp~ | e1~ | e1~ | e1~ | e1~ } » } </score>\n\n4. Intermezzo: \"Andante sostenuto\"\n<score vorbis=\"1\"> \\relative c' { \\clef treble \\key d \\major \\time 3/4 \\tempo \"Andante sostenuto\" 4 = 98 d4(\\p e fis | d'2 cis4 | b a fis) } </score>\n\n5. Epilogue: \"Alla marcia, moderato (non troppo allegro)\"\n<score vorbis=\"1\"> \\relative c' { \\clef treble \\numericTimeSignature \\time 4/4 \\tempo \"Alla marcia moderato (non troppo allegro)\" 4 = 108 c4\\ff f bes8 c ees4~ | ees8 d16 b! ees8 d b! bes g4~ | g8 f g c d4. c8 | d4. c8 d4 c~ | c2. } </score>\n\nOccasionally in performance and recordings the preceding quotations are recited before each movement – notably Sir Adrian Boult's first recording for Decca with Sir John Gielgud (supervised by the composer) in 1954, and André Previn's for RCA with Sir Ralph Richardson. However, care must be taken, because the composer instructed that the third movement must lead directly into the fourth without a pause. The final notes of the third movement can be sustained as the superscription to the fourth movement is read, thereby ensuring no interruption to the music. The effect is particularly notable – and presumably intentionally so – since the other four movements each have their superscriptions read prior to the beginning of each movement. The horrific grandeur of the third movement is thereby held over into the bittersweet intermezzo. Previn's recording is the most accurate in this regard. The quotations were not recited at the premiere, at which Vaughan Williams was present, or in the subsequent recording made by the same forces.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2024679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024679", "title": "Monique Noel", "text": "Monique Noel\n\nMonique Noel (born April 28, 1967 in Salem Oregon) is a glamour model and actress. She was chosen as \"Playboy's\" Playmate of the Month for May 1989. Her centerfold was photographed by Richard Fegley.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2024680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024680", "title": "Levuka", "text": "Levuka\n\nLevuka is a town on the eastern coast of the Fijian island of Ovalau, in Lomaiviti Province, in the Eastern Division of Fiji. It was formerly the capital of Fiji. At the census in 2007, the last to date, Levuka town had a population of 1,131 (plus 3,266 living in the peri-urban area as defined by the Bureau of Statistics), about half of Ovalau's 8,360 inhabitants. It is the economic hub and the largest of 24 settlements on the island. Levuka and the island of Ovalau had been seeking recognition from UNESCO as a World Heritage Site for decades, finally being designated in June 2013.\n\nThe modern town of Levuka was founded around 1820 by European settlers and traders as the first modern town in the Fiji Islands, and became an important port and trading post. A disparate band of settlers made up Levuka's population – traders, missionaries, shipwrights, speculators, and vagabonds, as well as respectable businessmen.\n\nThe US Exploring Expedition visited in 1840.\n\nMarist priests, led by Father Breheret, established a mission in Levuka in 1858. By 1870, the town had a population of more than 800. When the first modern nation state of Fiji was founded in 1871, Seru Epenisa Cakobau was crowned King at Levuka. After Fiji was annexed as a British colony in 1874, Levuka remained the capital until 1877, when the administration was moved to Suva, although the move was not made official until 1882. The move was prompted by concerns that the 600-meter high hills, many with cliffs, surrounding Levuka gave it no room for expansion.\n\nLevuka is famous for many of Fiji's \"firsts.\" It was the site of Fiji's first bank, post office, school, private members club, hospital, town hall, and municipal government. Fiji's first newspaper, the Fiji Times, which is still in operation today, was founded in Levuka in 1869. Levuka's Royal Hotel is the oldest hotel in the South Pacific still operating. Historians have not ascertained its exact age, but records show that it was in existence by the early 1860s. Levuka Public School, opened in 1879, was the first public school in Fiji and many of Fiji's leaders in the years leading up to and following independence in 1970 were educated there. The oldest Masonic lodge in the South Pacific, Lodge Polynesia 562 SC, is also to be found in Levuka. It was established in 1875. Levuka was also the site of Fiji's first public electricity system, which began in 1927, three days before the capital Suva was electrified.\n\nMuch of Levuka's heritage is in its wooden architecture which is highly vulnerable to fire. The Masonic Lodge, Levuka's only Romanesque building was set on fire during the period of lawlessness and unrest following Fiji's 2000 coup. There is much controversy about the Masonic fraternity in Fiji, the dominant traditional Christian faiths consider Masons to be devil-worshipers. The Lodge contained priceless historical artefacts and records of Levuka's history dating back to 1875. The arsonists have yet to be identified and prosecuted.\n\nIn 2008, Levuka's PAFCO Cold Storage Plant which was located next the town's main road was destroyed by a fire caused during welding maintenance works. In more recent years, the old Mavida Guest house and the old General Store on Levuka's main street have also burnt down. The General Store Building housed the Westpac Bank, Air Fiji and a Supermarket and, being over 100 years old, was part of the then proposed (now established) UNESCO National Heritage Site. Rumors of arson abound in relation to the fires but no prosecutions have been made. In April 2010, Levuka's Chief Fire Authority Officer was quoted in the national paper as saying that Levuka is: ‘...a fire hazard waiting to happen...’, he points out in the article that there are no fire hydrants in the town and that virtually no buildings have fire extinguishers or fire alarm systems.\n\nLevuka's status as a stopover port for ocean vessels crossing the Pacific came to an end in the 1950s, threatening the town with economic extinction. In 1964, however, the Pacific Fishing Company (PAFCO) was founded by a Japanese firm, specialising in freezing and shipping canned tuna, mostly to markets in Europe and Canada. A cannery, a joint PAFCO-government venture, was opened in 1976, and is the largest private employer on the island of Ovalau. Owing largely to Levuka's isolation, tourism plays only a minor role in the Levuka/Ovalau economy.\n\nLevuka has been incorporated as a Town since 1877, and is governed by a Town Council of 8 members, elected for 3-year terms. The municipal elections of 22 October 2005 resulted in a defeat for the SDL of outgoing Mayor Taniela Bulivou, with the Balance Party taking 6 of the 8 seats. The new council elected George Gibson to succeed Bulivou; the Mayoral term is for one year, but may be extended any number of times. The council has recently been suspended by the interim government of Fiji and a local administrator (Napolionio Masirewa) has been named.\n\nAt the northern end of Levuka is the traditional Fijian village of Levuka. The village chief, who bears the title of \"Tui Levuka\", is a direct descendant of the chief who welcomed the first European settlers. In memory of his ancestor, he is also known as \"\"Tamana na vavalagi\"\" (Father of the Europeans). At the southern end of the town lies the village of Nasova, where the King Seru Epenisa Cakobau signed the Deed of Cession, ceding the islands to Great Britain on 10 October 1874.\n\nThe Levuka Community Centre, which houses a branch of the Fiji Museum, a public library, crafts centre, kindergarten, squash court and meeting hall, occupies a renovated store built in 1878 by Morris Hedstrom, a trading company established in Levuka's early days and still in business in Fiji. Morris Hedstrom gave the building to the National Trust of Fiji in 1980. Adjacent to the Levuka Community Centre stands Queens Wharf, with a maximum depth of eight meters. Upgraded in the 1990s, it is used mostly by local craft, though foreign vessels sometimes dock, Levuka being one of three official ports of entry to Fiji (Suva and Lautoka being the other two).\n\nOther well-known landmarks include Sacred Heart Church, a legacy of the Marist Fathers, who arrived in 1858, the Ovalau Club, one of the oldest social organisations in the Pacific, and Levuka Town Hall, which houses the Levuka Town Council. It was built in 1898 in honour of Queen Victoria's Diamond Jubilee.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2024693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024693", "title": "Movement for Socialism (Bolivia)", "text": "Movement for Socialism (Bolivia)\n\nThe Movement for Socialism–Political Instrument for the Sovereignty of the Peoples (, abbreviated MAS-IPSP, or simply MAS), alternately referred to as the Movement Toward Socialism or the Movement to Socialism ( ), is a Bolivian left-wing populist and indigenist political party led by Evo Morales, founded in 1998. Its followers are known as \"Masistas\".\n\nMAS-IPSP governed the country from January 22, 2006 to November 10, 2019, following the first ever majority victory by a single party in the December 2005 elections. MAS-IPSP evolved out of the movement to defend the interests of coca growers. Evo Morales has articulated the goals of his party and popular organizations as the need to achieve plurinational unity, and to develop a new hydrocarbon law which guarantees 50% of revenue to Bolivia, although political leaders of MAS-IPSP recently interviewed showed interest in complete nationalization of the fossil fuel industries, as well as the country's lithium deposits.\n\nMAS-IPSP is the dominant force in municipal politics in Bolivia. In the most recent municipal elections in 2015, it was the only party to contest leadership of all 339 municipalities. In all, the mayors of 227 municipalities belong to the party, as do 1,144 of the country's 2,022 municipal council members.\n\nThe roots of MAS-IPSP can be traced to the closures of the Bolivian Mining Corporation and shut-down of various mines during the 1980s. Thousands of former miners became coca farmers as their means of survival, but also encountered new hardships in their new profession. The growth of the coca farmer community resulted in a sharp numerical growth of organizations such as \"Confederación Sindical Única de Trabajadores Campesinos de Bolivia\" (CSUTCB) and \"Confederación Sindical de Colonizadores de Bolivia\". The movement built alliances with the Confederation of Indigenous Peoples of Eastern Bolivia (CIDOB), and mobilized joint protests in a 1992 campaign titled \"500 years of resistance of the indigenous peoples\", culminating in a march to La Paz where a manifestation was held on October 12, 1992 (Columbus Day). The 1992 campaign marked the emergence of a 'peasant-Indigenous' movement.\n\nHowever, CSUTCB was wary of building a political party to contest state power. The experiences of the 1980s, when the CSUTCB leadership had been divided over electoral candidatures (of leaders such as Jenaro Flores Santos and Víctor Hugo Cárdenas) had been negative. Rather the organization began discussing the possibility of launching a 'political instrument', a structure in which the trade unions would enter as collective members. The idea would be to combine social and political struggles, to have one branch in the social movements and one political branch. According to Lino Villca there were also discussions about forming an armed wing of the movement.\n\nCarlos Burgoa Maya traces the initiative for a political instrument to the Third Congress of the CSUTCB (26 June–3 July 1987, Cochabamba) in which several proposals were merged into a document proposing an \"Assembly of Nationalities\" including traditional authorities to forge \"political instruments of the nationalities.\" In the COB's 9th Congress (May 1992, Sucre), a thesis for worker-indigenous unity in \"constructing a political instrument\" was approved. Numerous prominent future leaders of the MAS, including Evo Morales, Félix Patzi, and David Choquehuanca met on 7 November 1992 in a gathering organized by CSUTCB, CSCB, CIDOB, FNMCB (Bartolina Sisa), and the COB, which decided to call for withdrawal from existing parties and to consolidate as an independent political force. The August–September 1994 cocalero march also endorsed the creation of a political instrument.\n\nThe creation of a political instrument received the backing of the sixth CSUTCB congress in 1994, and in March 1995 CSUTCB convened a congress titled 'Land, Territory and Political Instrument' in Santa Cruz de la Sierra. Present at the congress were CSUTCB, CSCB, the Bartolina Sisa National Federation of Peasant Women of Bolivia and CIDOB. The congress resulted in the foundation of the Assembly for the Sovereignty of the Peoples (ASP), under the leadership of the Cochabamba peasant leader Alejo Véliz as the main leader and Evo Morales in second position.\nFrom 1996 onwards, Evo Morales was a rising star in the ASP leadership. Soon he became a competitor of Veliz. Internal conflict emerged between the followers of Morales and Veliz — \"evistas\" and \"alejistas\". ASP wanted to contest the 1997 national elections, but never obtained the registration of a political party at the CNE. Instead the group contested the election of the lists of the United Left. Veliz was candidate for the presidency and for parliament (on the proportional representation list). However, many trade unions decided not to support Veliz's candidature, accusing him of having manipulated the candidate lists of the United Left. Four ASP members of the Chamber of Deputies were elected from the Chapare province (the entire United Left group): Evo Morales, Román Loayza Caero, Félix Sanchéz Veizaga and Néstor Guzmán Villarroel.\n\nAfter the 1997 elections a split occurred in ASP and Evo Morales was expelled from the organization. In 1998 the supporters of Evo Morales founded the IPSP. Notably, the majority of the grassroots supporters of ASP sided with Morales in the split. One of the prominent ASP leaders who sided with Morales was Román Loayza Caero, leader of CSUTCB.\n\nAt the time of its foundation, an IPSP flag was adopted. It was coffee-coloured and green, with a sun in the middle.\n\nIn order to contest the 1999 municipal election IPSP borrowed the registration (and party name) of a falangist splinter faction, (Movimiento al Socialismo-Unzaguista). The decision to go for elections as MAS was taken in Cochabamba in 1998. IPSP decided to adopt the name, banner and colours (cobalt blue, black and white) of MAS. In January 1999, the organization adopted the name MAS-IPSP.\nThis move provoked a split between IPSP and the new CSUTCB leader, Felipe Quispe. Quispe stated that he was unable to accept to contest the elections under a name tainted by a fascist past and that the falangist profile meant a negation of indigenous identity. In the 1999 elections Quispe aligned himself with Veliz's group, which had decided to contest on the lists of the Communist Party of Bolivia. In the Cochabamba region the verbal confrontations between the two sides were often tense, and the Veliz group launched the slogan \"MAS is Unzaguist, falangist, heil heil Hitler\". MAS-IPSP itself however stressed that the adaptation of the name MAS was a mere formality, the membership cards issued by the organization carried the slogan \"\"MAS legalmente, IPSP legítimamente\"\".\n\nMAS-IPSP got 65,425 votes (3.3% of the nationwide votes) and won 81 local council seats (4.8% of the seats in the country) in 1999. According to a study by Xavier Albó and Victor Quispe, the vast majority of the MAS-IPSP councilors elected in the 1999 municipal election were indigenous. In the Cochabamba Department MAS-IPSP obtained 39% of the votes winning seven mayoral posts. The MAS vote in Cochabamba was almost completely confined to the Chapare, Carrasco and Ayopaya provinces. In the capital of the Department (Cochabamba) the MAS mayoral candidate only got 0.88% (less than the Communist Party candidate, Alejo Veliz who got 1.1%). The mayoral post of Cochabamba was won by Manfred Reyes Villa of the New Republican Force, who got 51.2% of the votes in the city.\n\nDuring the years of 1998-2002 the grassroot base of MAS-IPSP was consolidated, as a result of increasing repression against the coca growers' movement. MAS-IPSP represented, along with the smaller Indigenous Pachakuti Movement (MIP, Felipe Quispe's new party), the anti-system opposition in the country. Whilst Bolivian politics had seen several political parties contesting on populist platforms during the past decades, MAS-IPSP and MIP differed from these parties through its strong connections to the peasant organizations. However, the fact that MIP had been accorded registration as a political party by the National Electoral Court (in spite of falling short of having the 10,000 members required for registration) angered MAS-IPSP followers. Both within MAS-IPSP and amongst political analysts the smooth registration of MIP was described as a move by the political establishment to divide the indigenous vote and to spoil the chances of a possible MAS-IPSP/MIP alliance. By this time IPSP had been denied registration by the National Electoral Court four times, citing minor details.\n\nThe period of 2000-2002 was characterized by a series of social struggles that contributed to the radicalization of the Bolivian polity; the 2000 water war in Cochabamba, Aymara uprisings in 2000 and 2001 and the coca growers' struggle in Chapare. While social movements are by no means new in Bolivia, a country with a long history of revolution due to political and class struggle, this protest cycle marked a renewal of militancy and growing successful organizational planning which had not been witnessed before.\n\nIn January 2002 Morales was expelled from the parliament after being accused of masterminding violent confrontations between police and coca growers in Sacaba. The expulsion of Morales from the parliament contributed to the political popularity of MAS-IPSP.\n\nAhead of the 2002 national elections, MAS-IPSP sought to expand its influence outside its peasant base. Evo Morales stood as presidential candidate and Antonio Peredo as vice-presidential candidate. By launching Peredo for the vice-presidency, MAS-IPSP attempted to gain influence amongst the urban middle classes. MAS-IPSP also made an appeal for the supporters of the Marxist left groups to join the campaign and present themselves as MAS-IPSP candidates. Prominent MAS-IPSP leaders recruited for the 2002 election campaign included Gustavo Torrico, Manuel Morales Dávila and Jorge Alvaro.\n\nIn their election campaign, MAS-IPSP championed 'national sovereignty', denouncing U.S. interventions in Bolivian affairs. The political elite and proponents of neoliberal policies were denounced as 'traitors' supported by the United States. The appeal of MAS-IPSP was also aided by the intervention of US ambassador Manuel Rocha, who threatened Bolivians that US economic aid to Bolivia would be cut if Morales won. Morales has credited ambassador Rocha for the success of MAS, stating that \"[e]very statement [Rocha] made against us helped us to grow and awaken the conscience of the people.\" Anti-US sentiment was further exacerbated when the new ambassador, David Greenlee, made it clear that he would not approve of any president other than Gonzalo Sánchez de Lozada (Goni).\n\nThe electoral advance of MAS-IPSP was aided by the implosion of the political party Conscience of the Fatherland (CONDEPA). CONDEPA was a populist party which was based in the urban poor, often Aymaras who had migrated to the urban centres of Bolivia. The party had lost much of its popular legitimacy as it was coopted by Hugo Banzer's government, and the party had suffered the death of its main leader just before the 2002 elections. In the polls CONDEPA lost all of their 22 parliamentary seats.\n\nWhilst Gonzalo Sánchez de Lozada was re-elected as President of Bolivia, Evo Morales came in second place with just 1.5% fewer votes than Sánchez de Lozada. MAS-IPSP got 14.6% of the valid uninominal vote, which gave the movement 27 out of 130 seats in the Chamber of Deputies and eight out of 27 seats in the Senate. The election result shocked both political analysts as well as MAS-IPSP itself. Out of the elected MAS-IPSP legislators, ten identified themselves as indigenous or peasants, twelve as leftwing intellectuals or labour leaders.\n\nThe fifth national congress of MAS-IPSP was held in Oruro December 13–14, 2003.\n\nIn the 2005 general election, Evo Morales was again the presidential candidate of MAS-IPSP. He won a clear majority with 53.7% of the valid presidential vote—the first since the restoration of democracy that a presidential candidate had won without the need for a runoff. MAS-IPSP obtained 43.5% of the valid uninominal vote, which gave it 72 out of 130 seats in the Chamber of Deputies and 12 out of 27 seats in the Senate. In the 2005 prefect elections, MAS campaigned for all nine departmental prefectures (governorships), but only won three: Chuquisaca (43%), Oruro (41.0%), and Potosí (42.7%).\n\nSince taking office, the MAS-IPSP government has emphasized modernization of the country, promoting industrialization, increased state intervention in the economy, social and cultural inclusion, and redistribution of revenue from natural resources through various social service programs.\n\nWhen the first MAS-IPSP cabinet was formed, it had Andrés Soliz Rada as Minister for Hydrocarbons, David Choquehuanca as Foreign Minister, Casimira Rodríguez as Justice Minister, Salvador Ric Reira as Minister for Public Works and Services, Hugo Salvatierra as Rural Development Minister, Álex Gálvez Mamami as Labour Minister, Abel Mamami as Water Minister, Félix Patzi as Education Minister, Félipe Caceres as Vice Minister of Social Defense, Alicia Muñoz as Minister of Government, Juan Ramón Quintana as Minister of the Presidency, Carlos Villegas as Minister of Economic Planning and Walter Villarroel as Mining Minister. Two MAS-IPSP heavyweights, Santos Ramírez and Edmundo Novillo (since elected governor of Cochabamba in April 2010 local elections), became the president of the Senate and the House of Deputies respectively.\n\nThe 2006 elections to the Constituent Assembly further consolidated the position of MAS-IPSP as the dominant force in Bolivian politics. After the elections Román Loayza Caero became the head of the MAS-IPSP faction in the Constituent Assembly.\n\nIn 2007 MAS-IPSP was able to register itself as MAS-IPSP at the CNE.\n\nOn August 10, 2008 a vote of confidence referendum was held regarding the posts of president Morales, vice-president Garcia Linera and different prefects. Morales and Garcia Linera got their mandate affirmed by a wide majority, reaching 83% of the votes in La Paz and 71% of the votes in Cochabamba in their favour. But they also obtained significant support in the 'Media Luna' departments (Santa Cruz 41%, Beni 44%, Pando 53% and Tarija 50%), indicating the consolidation of MAS-IPSP as a national political force.\n\nIn the 2010 regional elections, MAS-IPSP won the post of governor in six departements (La Paz, Oruro, Potosí, Pando, Chuquisaca and Cochabamba) and finished second in the remaining three (Santa Cruz, Tarija and Beni). In Chuquisaca MAS-IPSP had launched 29-year-old Estaban Urquizu as its candidate for governor. Urquizu won with 53.9% of the votes, becoming the youngest governor in Bolivian history. In La Paz Department MAS-IPSP dropped its candidate Félix Patzi shortly before the elections, after Patzi was arrested for drunk driving.\n\nThe election was also marked by candidatures of MAS-IPSP dissidents. MAS-IPSP co-founder Lino Villca had founded the Movement for Sovereignty (MPS), which contested the elections. Other former MAS-IPSP activists involved in founding the MPS include Óscar Chirinos, Miguel Machaca, and Rufo Calle.\n\nMorales has defined socialism in terms of communitarianism, stating in a 2003 interview that in the \"ayllu people live in community, with values such as solidarity and reciprocity'. Regarding the question of national identity, MAS-IPSP borrows discourse from the \"katarista\" tradition and from the indigenous peoples' movement in eastern Bolivia, criticizing the modern nation state as a failed construct of 'internal colonialism' and inherently racist. Thus the movement seeks to construct a plurinational state based on autonomies of the indigenous peoples. In the MAS-IPSP discourse 'nation' and 'people' are often equated, whilst the oligarchy is portrayed as anti-national.\n\nThe \"katarista\" discourse was not a feature of the ideological profile of the IPSP at the time of its foundation. IPSP surged as a movement of the peasantry, amongst colonizers and coca growers. The \"katarista\" discourse was absorbed later, largely borrowed from Félipe Quispe's rhetoric from the struggles of 2000. However, MAS-IPSP never went as far as to create an exclusively indigenous political profile (as did Quispe), and Morales maintained that an alliance with non-indigenous actors and the middle classes was a necessity. The seventh congress of MAS-IPSP, held in January 2009, approved a document titled \"Communitarian socialism to liberate Bolivia from the colonial state\", envisioning the path of a 'cultural and democratic revolution' in Bolivia.\n\nMAS-IPSP itself does not have an ideological centre, and the different constituent movements belong to slightly different trends of thought. Marxist, social democrat, anarchist, and \"virulently anti-communist strands\" can be found within the MAS-IPSP fold. In the words of Alvaro García Linera, the political character of MAS-IPSP has evolved through the combination of \"an eclectic indianism and the critical and self-critical traditions of the intellectual leftwing that began to Indianize Marxism from the 1980s and onwards\". According to García Linera, a \"flexible indianism\" enabled MAS-IPSP to gather support from a variety of sectors. García Linera characterizes MAS-IPSP as \"centre-left\", stating that the goal of the movement is the establishment of a form of \"Andean capitalism\". In the findings of Latinobarómetro surveys until 2002, MAS voters identified themselves as 2.7 of a scale between 0 and 10 (in which 0 represented the far left and 10 represented the far right).\n\nAccording to Marta Harnecker and Federico Fuentes, MAS-IPSP represents a \"new indigenous nationalism\" based on two sets of historical memories, that of the peasant movement (represented through CSUTCB) and that of the indigenous movement (represented through CIDOB), and combines elements of indigenismo, nationalism and \"miners' Marxism\".\n\nAccording to Carlos Toranzo Roca, the politics of MAS-IPSP is largely a continuation of the traditional Latin American populism which in Bolivia is rooted in the 1952 revolution. According to him, a key element of this feature is clientelistic relations of distribution combined with anti-imperialist and nationalist discourse.\n\nIPSP was founded as a 'political instrument', an organization distinct from the traditional political parties. Hervé do Alto defines the organization as both a political party and a federation of social movements at the same time.\n\nThe National Leadership (Dirección Nacional, DN) of MAS-IPSP is composed of representatives of the constituent organizations affiliated with MAS-IPSP. It is more of a loosely coordinated body rather than a party leadership in the traditional sense. Notably MAS-IPSP has not been institutionally consolidated in the way the Workers Party (PT) in Brazil has developed, which also emerged as a political vehicle of social movements.\nClause 42 of the Organic Bylaws of MAS-IPSP stipulated that candidates in national and local elections should be elected through direct vote at assemblies. The majority of the MAS-IPSP candidatures in the 1999 and 2002 elections were selected through this method. However some candidates in the 2002 and 2005 elections were directly appointed by Morales.\n\nThe founding member organizations of MAS-IPSP are CSUTCB, CSCB, and the Bartolina Sisa federation. At the sixth MAS-IPSP congress, held in November 2006, four new organizations were admitted as members of MAS-IPSP: Confederación Nacional de Maestros Rurales, Confederación de Gremiales de Bolivia, Confederación Nacional de Rentistas y Jubilados and Confederación Nacional de la Micro y Pequeña Empresa (Conamype).\n\nThe seventh congress of MAS-IPSP was held January 10–12, 2009. At this congress two organizations were included as new members of MAS-IPSP; the National Federation of Mining Cooperatives (Fencomin, which claims a membership of around 40,000) and the Regional Workers Centre (COR) from El Alto. The Bolivian Workers' Center (COB) and the National Council of Ayllus and Markas of Qullasuyu (CONAMAQ) are not part of MAS-IPSP, but are supportive of the government.\n\nThe MAS-IPSP ran a joint electoral slate with the Without Fear Movement (MSM) in the 2009 national elections. Shortly afterward, Evo Morales publicly broke with the MSM and its representatives in the Plurinational Legislative Assembly then formed an independent bloc.\n\nThe three founding organizations of the MAS-IPSP are joined by CONAMAQ and the Confederation of Indigenous Peoples of Bolivia (CIDOB) in the Pact of Unity; this group has included other organizations in the past.\n\nA larger alliance, the National Coordination for Change (CONALCAM) was formed during the Bolivian Constituent Assembly, and includes MAS-IPSP executive and legislative politicians as well as social movement organizations.\n\nMAS-IPSP publishes \"Soberanía\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2024696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024696", "title": "Giovanni di Niccolò Mansueti", "text": "Giovanni di Niccolò Mansueti\n\nGiovanni di Niccolò Mansueti (also known as Giovanni Mansueti; c. 1465 – March 26, 1527) was an Italian painter.\n\nLittle is known of his biography. He was active in Venice from 1485 to 1526. A pupil of Gentile Bellini, he worked in the antique style in the \"Miracles of the Cross\" painted around 1496-1502 for the Scuola Grande di San Giovanni Evangelista and now in the Gallerie dell'Accademia. In style he resembles Cima da Conegliano and Vittore Carpaccio. One of his paintings resides in a church near Bagni di Lucca, Italy.\n\n"}
{"id": "2024699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024699", "title": "Subglacial lake", "text": "Subglacial lake\n\nA subglacial lake is a lake that is found under a glacier, typically beneath an ice cap or ice sheet. Subglacial lakes form at the boundary between ice and the underlying bedrock, where gravitational pressure decreases the pressure melting point of ice. Over time, the overlying ice gradually melts at a rate of a few millimeters per year. Meltwater flows from regions of high to low hydraulic pressure under the ice and pools, creating a body of liquid water that can be isolated from the external environment for millions of years.\n\nSince the first discoveries of subglacial lakes under the Antarctic Ice Sheet, more than 400 subglacial lakes have been discovered in Antarctica, beneath the Greenland Ice Sheet, and under Iceland's Vatnajökull ice cap. Subglacial lakes contain a substantial proportion of Earth's liquid freshwater, with the volume of Antarctic subglacial lakes alone estimated to be about 10,000 km, or about 15% of all liquid freshwater on Earth.\n\nAs ecosystems isolated from Earth's atmosphere, subglacial lakes are influenced by interactions between ice, water, sediments, and organisms. They contain active biological communities of extremophilic microbes that are adapted to cold, low-nutrient conditions and facilitate biogeochemical cycles independent of energy inputs from the sun. Subglacial lakes and their inhabitants are of particular interest in the field of astrobiology and the search for extraterrestrial life.\n\nThe water in subglacial lakes remains liquid since geothermal heating balances the heat loss at the ice surface. The pressure from the overlying glacier causes the melting point of water to be below 0 °C. The ceiling of the subglacial lake will be at the level where the pressure melting point of water intersects with the temperature gradient. In Lake Vostok, the largest Antarctic subglacial lake, the ice over the lake is thus much thicker than the ice sheet around it. Hypersaline subglacial lakes remain liquid due to their salt content.\n\nNot all lakes with permanent ice cover can be called subglacial, as some are covered by regular lake ice. Some examples of perennially ice-covered lakes include Lake Bonney and Lake Hoare in Antarctica's McMurdo Dry Valleys as well as Lake Hodgson, a former subglacial lake.\n\nThe water in a subglacial lake can have a floating level much above the level of the ground threshold. In fact, theoretically a subglacial lake can even exist on the top of a hill, provided that the ice over it is thin enough to form the required hydrostatic seal. The floating level can be thought of as the water level in a hole drilled through the ice into the lake. It is equivalent to the level at which a piece of ice over it would float if it were a normal ice shelf. The ceiling can therefore be conceived as an ice shelf that is grounded along its entire perimeter, which explains why it has been called a captured ice shelf. As it moves over the lake, it enters the lake at the floating line, and it leaves the lake at the grounding line.\n\nA hydrostatic seal is created when the ice is so much higher around the lake that the equipotential surface dips down into impermeable ground. Water from underneath this ice rim is then pressed back into the lake by the hydrostatic seal. The ice rim in Lake Vostok has been estimated to a mere 7 meters, while the floating level is about 3 kilometers above the lake ceiling. If the hydrostatic seal is penetrated when the floating level is high, the water will start flowing out in a jökulhlaup. Due to melting of the channel the discharge increases exponentially, unless other processes allow the discharge to increase even faster. Due to the high hydraulic head that can be achieved in some subglacial lakes, jökulhlaups may reach very high rates of discharge. Catastrophic drainage from subglacial lakes is a known hazard in Iceland, as volcanic activity can create enough meltwater to overwhelm ice dams and lake seals and cause glacial outburst flooding.\n\nThe role of subglacial lakes on ice dynamics is unclear. Certainly on the Greenland Ice Sheet subglacial water acts to enhance basal ice motion in a complex manner. The \"Recovery Lakes\" beneath Antarctica's Recovery Glacier lie at the head of a major ice stream and may influence the dynamics of the region. A modest (10%) speed up of Byrd Glacier in East Antarctica may have been influenced by a subglacial drainage event. The flow of subglacial water is known in downstream areas where ice streams are known to migrate, accelerate or stagnate on centennial time scales and highlights that subglacial water may be discharged over the ice sheet grounding line.\n\nRussian revolutionary and scientist Peter A. Kropotkin first proposed the idea of liquid freshwater under the Antarctic Ice Sheet at the end of the 19th century. He suggested that due to the geothermal heating at the bottom of the ice sheets, the temperature beneath the ice could reach the ice melt temperature, which would be below zero. The notion of freshwater beneath ice sheets was further advanced by Russian glaciologist Igor A. Zotikov, who demonstrated via theoretical analysis the possibility of a decrease in Antarctic ice because of melting of ice at a lower surface. As of 2019, there are over 400 subglacial lakes in Antarctica, and it is suspected that there is a possibility of more. Subglacial lakes have also been discovered in Greenland, Iceland, and northern Canada.\nScientific advances in Antarctica can be attributed to several major periods of collaboration and cooperation, such as the four International Polar Years (IPY) in 1882-1883, 1932-1933, 1957-1958, and 2007-2008. The success of the 1957-1958 IPY led to the establishment of the Scientific Committee on Antarctic Research (SCAR) and the Antarctic Treaty System, paving the way to formulate a better methodology and process to observe subglacial lakes.\n\nIn 1959 and 1964, during two of his four Soviet Antarctic Expeditions, Russian geographer and explorer Andrey P. Kapitsa used seismic sounding to prepare a profile of the layers of the geology below Vostok Station in Antarctica. The original intent of this work was to conduct a broad survey of the Antarctic Ice Sheet. The data collected on these surveys however was used 30 years later and led to the discovery of Lake Vostok as a subglacial lake.\n\nBeginning in the late 1950s, English physicists Stan Evans and Gordon Robin began using the radioglaciology technique of radio-echo sounding (RES) to chart ice thickness. Subglacial lakes are identified by (RES) data as continuous and specular reflectors which dip against the ice surface at around x10 of the surface slope angle, as this is required for hydrostatic stability. In the late 1960s, they were able to mount RES instruments on aircraft and acquire data for the Antarctic Ice Sheet. Between 1971 and 1979, the Antarctic Ice Sheet was profiled extensively using RES equipment. The technique of using RES is as follows: 50-meter deep holes are drilled to increase the signal-to-noise ratio in the ice. A small explosion sets off a sound wave, which travels through the ice. This sound wave is reflected and then recorded by the instrument. The time it takes for the wave to travel down and back is noted and converted to a distance using the known speed of sound in ice. RES records can identify subglacial lakes via three specific characteristics: 1) an especially strong reflection from the ice-sheet base, stronger than adjacent ice-bedrock reflections; 2) echoes of constant strength occurring along the track, which indicate that the surface is very smooth; and 3) a very flat and horizontal character with slopes less than 1%. Using this approach, 17 subglacial lakes were documented by Kapista and his team. RES also led to the discovery of the first subglacial lake in Greenland and revealed that these lakes are interconnected.\n\nSystematic profiling, using RES, of the Antarctic Ice Sheet took place again between 1971–1979. During this time, a US-UK-Danish collaboration was able to survey about 40% of East Antarctica and 80% of West Antarctica – further defining the subglacial landscape and the behavior of ice flow over the lakes.\n\nIn the early 1990s, radar altimeter data from the European Remote-Sensing Satellite (ERS-1) provided detailed mapping of Antarctica through 82 degrees south. This imaging revealed a flat surface around the northern border of Lake Vostok, and the data collected from ERS-1 further built the geographical distribution of Antarctic subglacial lakes.\n\nIn 2005, Laurence Gray and a team of glaciologists began to interpret surface ice slumping and raising from RADARSAT data, which indicated there could be hydrologically “active” subglacial lakes subject to water movement.\n\nBetween 2003 and 2009, a survey of long-track measurements of ice-surface elevation using the ICESat satellite as a part of NASA's Earth Observing System produced the first continental-scale map of the active subglacial lakes in Antarctica. In 2009, it was revealed that Lake Cook is the most hydrologically active subglacial lake on the Antarctic continent. Other satellite imagery has been used to monitor and investigate this lake, including ICESat, CryoSat-2, the Advanced Spaceborne Thermal Emission and Reflection Radiometer, and SPOT5.\n\nGray et al. (2005) interpreted ice surface slumping and raising from RADARSAT data as evidence for subglacial lakes filling and emptying - termed \"active\" lakes. Wingham et al. (2006) used radar altimeter (ERS-1) data to show coincident uplift and subsidence, implying drainage between lakes. NASA's ICESat satellite was key in developing this concept further and subsequent work demonstrated the pervasiveness of this phenomenon. ICESat ceased measurements in 2007 and the detected \"active\" lakes were compiled by Smith et al. (2009) who identified 124 such lakes. The realisation that lakes were interconnected created new contamination concerns for plans to drill into lakes (see the Sampling expeditions section below).\n\nSeveral lakes were delineated by the famous SPRI-NSF-TUD surveys undertaken until the mid-seventies. Since this original compilation several smaller surveys has discovered many more subglacial lakes throughout Antarctica, notably by Carter et al. (2007), who identified a spectrum of subglacial lake types based on their properties in (RES) datasets.\n\nIn March 2010, the sixth international conference on subglacial lakes was held at the American Geophysical Union Chapman Conference in Baltimore. The conference allowed engineers and scientists to discuss the equipment and strategies used in ice drilling projects, such as the design of hot-water drills, equipment for water measurement and sampling and sediment recovery, and protocols for experimental cleanliness and environmental stewardship. Following this meeting, SCAR drafted a code of conduct for ice drilling expeditions and \"in situ\" (on-site) measurements and sampling of subglacial lakes. This code of conduct was ratified at the Antarctic Treaty Consultative Meeting (ATCM) of 2011. By the end of 2011, three separate subglacial lake drilling exploration missions were scheduled to take place.\n\nIn February 2012, Russian ice-core drilling at Lake Vostok accessed the subglacial lake for the first time. Lake water flooded the borehole and froze during the winter season, and the sample of re-frozen lake water (accretion ice) was recovered in the following summer season of 2013. In December 2012, scientists from the UK attempted to access Lake Ellsworth with a clean access hot-water drill; however, the mission was called off because of equipment failure. In January 2013, the US-led Whillans Ice Stream Subglacial Access Research Drilling (WISSARD) expedition measured and sampled Lake Whillans in West Antarctica for microbial life. On 28 December 2018, the Subglacial Antarctic Lakes Scientific Access (SALSA) team announced they had reached Lake Mercer after melting their way through 1,067 m (3,501 ft) of ice with a high-pressure hot-water drill. The team collected water samples and bottom sediment samples down to 6 meters deep.\n\nThe majority of the nearly 400 Antarctic subglacial lakes are located in the vicinity of ice divides, where large subglacial drainage basins are overlain by ice sheets. The largest is Lake Vostok with other lakes notable for their size being Lake Concordia and Aurora Lake. An increasing number of lakes are also being identified near ice streams. An altimeter survey by the ERS-2 satellite orbiting the East Antarctic Ice Sheet from 1995 to 2003 indicated clustered anomalies in ice sheet elevation indicating that the East Antarctic lakes are fed by a subglacial system that transports basal meltwater through subglacial streams.\n\nThe largest Antarctic subglacial lakes are clustered in the Dome C-Vostok area of East Antarctica, possibly due to the thick insulating ice and rugged, tectonically influenced subglacial topography. In West Antarctica, subglacial Lake Ellsworth is situated within the Ellsworth Mountains and is relatively small and shallow. The Siple Coast Ice Streams, also in West Antarctica, overlie numerous small subglacial lakes, including Lakes Whillans, Engelhardt, Mercer, and Conway. Glacial retreat at the margins of the Antarctic Ice Sheet has revealed several former subglacial lakes, including Progress Lake in East Antarctica and Hodgson Lake on southern Alexander Island near the Antarctic Peninsula.\n\nThe existence of subglacial lakes beneath the Greenland Ice Sheet has only become evident within the last decade. Radio-echo sounding measurements have revealed two subglacial lakes in the northwest section of the ice sheet. These lakes are likely recharged with water from the drainage of nearby supraglacial lakes rather than from melting of basal ice. Another potential subglacial lake has been identified near the southwestern margin of the ice sheet, where a circular depression beneath the ice sheet evidences recent drainage of the lake caused by climate warming. Such drainage, coupled with heat transfer to the base of the ice sheet through the storage of supraglacial meltwater, is thought to influence the rate of ice flow and overall behavior of the Greenland Ice Sheet.\n\nMuch of Iceland is volcanically active, resulting in significant meltwater production beneath its two ice caps. This meltwater also accumulates in basins and ice cauldrons, forming subglacial lakes. These lakes act as a transport mechanism for heat from geothermal vents to the bottom of the ice caps, which often results in melting of basal ice that replenishes any water lost from drainage. The majority of Icelandic subglacial lakes are located beneath the Vatnajökull and Mýrdalsjökull ice caps, where melting from hydrothermal activity creates permanent depressions that fill with meltwater. Catastrophic drainage from subglacial lakes is a known hazard in Iceland, as volcanic activity can create enough meltwater to overwhelm ice dams and lake seals and cause glacial outburst flooding.\n\nGrímsvötn is perhaps the best known subglacial lake beneath the Vatnajökull ice cap. Other lakes beneath the ice cap lie within the Skatfá, Pálsfjall and Kverkfjöll cauldrons. Notably, subglacial lake Grímsvötn's hydraulic seal remained intact until 1996, when significant meltwater production from the Gjálp eruption resulted in uplift of Grímsvötn's ice dam.\n\nThe Mýrdalsjökull ice cap, another key subglacial lake location, sits on top of an active volcano-caldera system in the southernmost part of the Katla volcanic system. Hydrothermal activity beneath the Mýrdalsjökull ice cap is thought to have created at least 12 small depressions within an area constrained by three major subglacial drainage basins. Many of these depressions are known to contain subglacial lakes that are subject to massive, catastrophic drainage events from volcanic eruptions, creating a significant hazard for nearby human populations.\n\nUntil very recently, only former subglacial lakes from the last glacial period had been identified in Canada. These paleo-subglacial lakes likely occupied valleys created before the advance of the Laurentide Ice Sheet during the Last Glacial Maximum. However, two subglacial lakes were identified via RES in bedrock troughs under the Devon Ice Cap of Nunavut, Canada. These lakes are thought to be hypersaline as a result of interaction with the underlying salt-bearing bedrock, and are much more isolated than the few identified saline subglacial lakes in Antarctica.\n\nUnlike surface lakes, subglacial lakes are isolated from Earth's atmosphere and receive no sunlight. Their waters are thought to be ultra-oligotrophic, meaning they contain very low concentrations of the nutrients necessary for life. Despite the cold temperatures, low nutrients, high pressure, and total darkness in subglacial lakes, these ecosystems have been found to harbor thousands of different microbial species and some signs of higher life. Professor John Priscu, a prominent scientist studying polar lakes, has called Antarctica's subglacial ecosystems \"our planet's largest wetland.”\n\nMicroorganisms and weathering processes drive a diverse set of chemical reactions that can drive a unique food-web and thus cycle nutrients and energy through subglacial lake ecosystems. No photosynthesis can occur in the darkness of subglacial lakes, so their food webs are instead driven by chemosynthesis and the consumption of ancient organic carbon deposited before glaciation. Nutrients can enter subglacial lakes through the glacier ice-lake water interface, from hydrologic connections, and from the physical, chemical, and biological weathering of subglacial sediments.\n\nSince few subglacial lakes have been directly sampled, much of the existing knowledge about subglacial lake biogeochemistry is based on a small number of samples, mostly from Antarctica. Inferences about solute concentrations, chemical processes, and biological diversity of unsampled subglacial lakes have also been drawn from analyses of accretion ice (re-frozen lake water) at the base of the overlying glaciers. These inferences are based on the assumption that accretion ice will have similar chemical signatures as the lake water that formed it. Scientists have thus far discovered diverse chemical conditions in subglacial lakes, ranging from upper lake layers supersaturated in oxygen to bottom layers that are anoxic and sulfur-rich. Despite their typically oligotrophic conditions, subglacial lakes and sediments are thought to contain regionally and globally significant amounts of nutrients, particularly carbon.\n\nAir clathrates trapped in glacial ice are the main source of oxygen entering otherwise enclosed subglacial lake systems. As the bottom layer of ice over the lake melts, clathrates are freed from the ice's crystalline structure and gases such as oxygen are made available to microbes for processes like aerobic respiration. In some subglacial lakes, freeze-melt cycles at the lake-ice interface may enrich the upper lake water with oxygen concentrations that are 50 times higher than in typical surface waters.\n\nMelting of the layer of glacial ice above the subglacial lake also supplies underlying waters with iron, nitrogen, and phosphorus-containing minerals, in addition to some dissolved organic carbon and bacterial cells.\n\nBecause air clathrates from melting glacial ice are the primary source of oxygen to subglacial lake waters, the concentration of oxygen generally decreases with depth in the water column if turnover is slow. Oxic or slightly suboxic waters often reside near the glacier-lake interface, while anoxia dominates in the lake interior and sediments due to respiration by microbes. In some subglacial lakes, microbial respiration may consume all of the oxygen in the lake, creating an entirely anoxic environment until new oxygen-rich water flows in from connected subglacial environments. The addition of oxygen from ice melt and the consumption of oxygen by microbes may create redox gradients in the subglacial lake water column, with aerobic microbial mediated processes like nitrification occurring in the upper waters and anaerobic processes occurring in the anoxic bottom waters.\n\nConcentrations of solutes in subglacial lakes, including major ions and nutrients like sodium, sulfate, and carbonates, are low compared to typical surface lakes. These solutes enter the water column from glacial ice melting and from sediment weathering. Despite their low solute concentrations, the large volume of subglacial waters make them important contributors of solutes, particularly iron, to their surrounding oceans. Subglacial outflow from the Antarctic Ice Sheet, including outflow from subglacial lakes, is estimated to add a similar amount of solutes to the Southern Ocean as some of the world's largest rivers.\n\nThe subglacial water column is influenced by the exchange of water between lakes and streams under ice sheets through the subglacial drainage system; this behavior likely plays an important role in biogeochemical processes, leading to changes in microbial habitat, particularly regarding oxygen and nutrient concentrations. Hydrologic connectivity of subglacial lakes also alters water residence times, or amount of time that water stays within the subglacial lake reservoir. Longer residence times, such as those found beneath the interior Antarctic Ice Sheet, would lead to greater contact time between the water and solute sources, allowing for greater accumulation of solutes than in lakes with shorter residence times. Estimated residence times of currently studied subglacial lakes range from about 13,000 years in Lake Vostok to just decades in Lake Whillans.\n\nThe morphology of subglacial lakes has the potential to change their hydrology and circulation patterns. Areas with the thickest overlying ice experience greater rates of melting. The opposite occurs in areas where the ice sheet is thinnest, which allows re-freezing of lake water to occur. These spatial variations in melting and freezing rates lead to internal convection of water and circulation of solutes, heat, and microbial communities throughout the subglacial lake, which will vary among subglacial lakes of different regions.\n\nSubglacial sediments are primarily composed of glacial till that formed during physical weathering of subglacial bedrock. Anoxic conditions prevail in these sediments due to oxygen consumption by microbes, particularly during sulfide oxidation. Sulfide minerals are generated by weathering of bedrock by the overlying glacier, after which these sulfides are oxidized to sulfate by aerobic or anaerobic bacteria, which can use iron for respiration when oxygen is unavailable.\n\nThe products of sulfide oxidation can enhance the chemical weathering of carbonate and silicate minerals in subglacial sediments, particularly in lakes with long residence times. Weathering of carbonate and silicate minerals from lake sediments also releases other ions including potassium (K), magnesium (Mg), sodium (Na), and calcium (Ca) to lake waters.\n\nOther biogeochemical processes in anoxic subglacial sediments include denitrification, iron reduction, sulfate reduction, and methanogenesis (see Reservoirs of organic carbon below).\n\nSubglacial sedimentary basins under the Antarctic Ice Sheet have accumulated an estimated ~21,000 petagrams of organic carbon, most of which comes from ancient marine sediments. This is more than 10 times the amount of organic carbon contained in Arctic permafrost and may rival the amount of reactive carbon in modern ocean sediments, potentially making subglacial sediments an important but understudied component of the global carbon cycle. In the event of ice sheet collapse, subglacial organic carbon could be more readily respired and thus released to the atmosphere and create a positive feedback on climate change.\n\nThe microbial inhabitants of subglacial lakes likely play an important role in determining the form and fate of sediment organic carbon. In the anoxic sediments of subglacial lake ecosystems, organic carbon can be used by archaea for methanogenesis, potentially creating large pools of methane clathrate in the sediments that could be released during ice sheet collapse or when lake waters drain to ice sheet margins. Methane has been detected in subglacial Lake Whillans, and experiments have shown that methanogenic archaea can be active in sediments beneath both Antarctic and Arctic glaciers.\n\nMost of the methane that escapes storage in subglacial lake sediments appears to be consumed by methanotrophic bacteria in oxygenated upper waters. In subglacial Lake Whillans, scientists found that bacterial oxidation consumed 99% of the available methane. There is also evidence for active methane production and consumption beneath the Greenland Ice Sheet.\n\nAntarctic subglacial waters are also thought to contain substantial amounts of organic carbon in the form of dissolved organic carbon and bacterial biomass. At an estimated 1.03 x 10 petagrams, the amount of organic carbon in subglacial lake waters is far smaller than that contained in Antarctic subglacial sediments, but is only one order of magnitude smaller than the amount of organic carbon in all surface freshwaters (5.10 x 10 petagrams). This relatively smaller, but potentially more reactive, reservoir of subglacial organic carbon may represent another gap in scientists’ understanding of the global carbon cycle.\n\nSubglacial lakes were originally assumed to be sterile, but over the last thirty years, active microbial life and signs of higher life have been discovered in subglacial lake waters, sediments, and accreted ice. Subglacial waters are now known to contain thousands of microbial species, including bacteria, archaea, and potentially some eukaryotes. These extremophilic organisms are adapted to below-freezing temperatures, high pressure, low nutrients, and unusual chemical conditions. Researching microbial diversity and adaptations in subglacial lakes is of particular interest to scientists studying astrobiology, as well as the history and limits of life on Earth.\n\nIn most surface ecosystems, photosynthetic plants and microbes are the main primary producers that form the base of the lake food web. Photosynthesis is impossible in the permanent darkness of subglacial lakes, so these food webs are instead driven by chemosynthesis. In subglacial ecosystems, chemosynthesis is mainly carried out by chemolithoautotrophic microbes.\n\nLike plants, chemolithoautotrophs fix carbon dioxide (CO) into new organic carbon, making them the primary producers at the base of subglacial lake food webs. Rather than using sunlight as an energy source, chemolithoautotrophs get energy from chemical reactions in which inorganic elements from the lithosphere are oxidized or reduced . Common elements used by chemolithoautotrophs in subglacial ecosystems include sulfide, iron, and carbonates weathered from sediments.\n\nIn addition to mobilizing elements from sediments, chemolithoautotrophs create enough new organic matter to support heterotrophic bacteria in subglacial ecosystems. Heterotrophic bacteria consume the organic material produced by chemolithoautotrophs, as well as consuming organic matter from sediments or from melting glacial ice. Despite the resources available to subglacial lake heterotrophs, these bacteria appear to be exceptionally slow-growing, potentially indicating that they dedicate most of their energy to survival rather than growth. Slow heterotrophic growth rates could also be explained by the cold temperatures in subglacial lakes, which slow down microbial metabolism and reaction rates.\n\nThe variable redox conditions and diverse elements available from sediments provide opportunities for many other metabolic strategies in subglacial lakes. Other metabolisms used by subglacial lake microbes include methanogenesis, methanotrophy, and chemolithoheterotrophy, in which bacteria consume organic matter while oxidizing inorganic elements.\n\nSome limited evidence for microbial eukaryotes and multicellular animals in subglacial lakes could expand current ideas of subglacial food webs. If present, these organisms could survive by consuming bacteria and other microbes.\n\nSubglacial lake waters are considered to be ultra-oligotrophic and contain low concentrations of nutrients, particularly nitrogen and phosphorus. In surface lake ecosystems, phosphorus has traditionally been thought of as the limiting nutrient that constrains growth in the ecosystem, although co-limitation by both nitrogen and phosphorus supply seems most common. However, evidence from subglacial Lake Whillans suggests that nitrogen is the limiting nutrient in some subglacial waters, based on measurements showing that the ratio of nitrogen to phosphorus is very low compared to the Redfield ratio. An experiment showed that bacteria from Lake Whillans grew slightly faster when supplied with phosphorus as well as nitrogen, potentially contradicting the idea that growth in these ecosystems is limited by nitrogen alone.\n\nBiological exploration of subglacial lakes has focused on Antarctica, but the financial and logistical challenges of drilling through the Antarctic Ice Sheet for sample collection have limited successful direct samplings of Antarctic subglacial lake water to Lake Whillans and Lake Mercer. Volcanic subglacial lakes under Iceland's Vatnajökull ice cap have also been sampled.\n\nIn subglacial Lake Whillans, the WISSARD expedition collected sediment cores and water samples, which contained 130,000 microbial cells per milliliter and 3,914 different bacterial species. The team identified active bacteria that were metabolizing ammonia, methane, and sulfur from the 120,000-year-old sediments. The most abundant bacteria identified were related to \"Thiobacillus\", \"Sideroxyans\", and pscyhrophilic \"Polaromonas\" species.\n\nIn January 2019, the SALSA team collected sediment and water samples from subglacial Lake Mercer and found diatom shells and well-preserved carcasses from crustaceans and a tardigrade. Although the animals were dead, the team also found bacterial concentrations of 10,000 cells per milliliter, suggesting the potential for animals to survive in the lake by consuming bacteria. The team will continue analyzing the samples to further investigate the chemistry and biology of the lake.\n\nLake Vostok is the best-studied Antarctic subglacial lake, but its waters have only been studied through analysis of accretion ice from the bottom of ice cores taken during Russian drilling efforts above the lake. Actively growing bacteria and thousands of unique DNA sequences from bacteria, archaea, and eukaryotes have been found in Lake Vostok's accretion ice. Some DNA appeared to come from multicellular eukaryotes, including species seemingly related to freshwater \"Daphnia\", tardigrades, and mollusks. These species may have survived in the lake and slowly adapted to the changing conditions since Vostok was last exposed to the atmosphere millions of years ago. However, the samples were likely contaminated by drilling fluid while being collected, so some of the identified organisms probably did not live in the lake.\n\nOther subglacial sampling efforts in Antarctica include the subglacial pool of anoxic, hypersaline water under Taylor Glacier, which harbors a microbial community that was sealed off from the atmosphere 1.5 to 2 million years ago. Bacteria under Taylor Glacier appear to have a novel metabolic strategy that uses sulfate and ferric ions to decompose organic matter.\n\nNo direct sampling of subglacial lakes has been attempted on the Greenland Ice Sheet. However, subglacial outflow waters have been sampled and found to contain methanogenic and methanotrophic microbes. Bacteria have also been discovered within the ice sheet itself, but they are unlikely to be active within the ice.\n\nSubglacial lakes under Iceland's Vatnajökull ice cap provide unique habitats for microbial life because they receive heat and chemical inputs from subglacial volcanic activity, influencing the chemistry of lower lake waters and sediments. Active psychrophilic, autotrophic bacteria have been discovered in the lake below the Grímsvötn volcanic caldera. A low-diversity microbial community has also been found in the east Skaftárketill and Kverkfjallalón subglacial lakes, where bacteria include \"Geobacter\" and \"Desulfuosporosinus\" species that can use sulfur and iron for anaerobic respiration. In the western Skaftá lake, the anoxic bottom waters appear to be dominated by acetate-producing bacteria rather than methanogens.\n\nIn some cases, subglacial lake waters have been isolated for millions of years, and these “fossil waters” may harbor evolutionarily distinct microbial communities. Some subglacial lakes in East Antarctica have existed for about 20 million years, but the interconnected subglacial drainage system between lakes under the Antarctic Ice Sheet implies that lake waters have probably not been isolated over the entire lifespan of the lake.\n\nDuring the proposed Snowball Earth period of the late Proterozoic, extensive glaciation could have completely covered Earth's surface in ice for 10 million years. Life would have survived primarily in glacial and subglacial environments, making modern subglacial lakes an important study system for understanding this period in Earth's history. More recently, subglacial lakes in Iceland may have provided a refuge for subterranean amphipods during the Quaternary glacial period.\n\nSubglacial lakes are an analog environment for extraterrestrial ice-covered water bodies, making them an important study system in the field of astrobiology, which is the study of the potential for life to exist outside Earth. Discoveries of living extremophilic microbes in Earth's subglacial lakes could suggest that life may persist in similar environments on extraterrestrial bodies. Subglacial lakes also provide study systems for planning research efforts in remote, logistically challenging locations that are sensitive to biological contamination.\n\nJupiter's moon Europa and Saturn’s moon Enceladus are promising targets in the search for extraterrestrial life. Europa contains an extensive ocean covered by an icy crust, and Enceladus is also thought to harbor a subglacial ocean. Satellite analysis of an icy water vapor plume escaping from fissures in Enceladus' surface reveals significant subsurface production of hydrogen, which may point towards the reduction of iron-bearing minerals and organic matter.\n\nA subglacial lake on Mars was discovered in 2018 using RES on the Mars Express spacecraft. This body of water was found beneath Mars’ South Polar Layered Deposits, and is suggested to have formed as a result of geothermal heating causing melting beneath the ice cap.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2024702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024702", "title": "Hokkaido Shinkansen", "text": "Hokkaido Shinkansen\n\nThe is a Japanese high-speed shinkansen rail line that links up with the Tōhoku Shinkansen in northern Aomori Prefecture in Honshu and continues on into the interior of Hokkaido through the undersea Seikan Tunnel. Construction started in May 2005, and the initial to section opened on 26 March 2016. Extension of the line to Sapporo is scheduled to open by fiscal year 2030. The line is operated by the Hokkaido Railway Company (JR Hokkaido).\n\nIn preparation for the opening of the Hokkaido Shinkansen, the Seikan Tunnel (Kaikyō Line) and associated approaches (approximately in total) were converted to dual gauge, with both the Shinkansen standard and narrow gauge tracks.\n\nUpon the opening of the Shinkansen line the section of the conventional (narrow gauge) Esashi Line approximately paralleling the same route between and was transferred from the control of JR Hokkaido to a newly established third-sector railway operating company, South Hokkaido Railway Company, becoming the Isaribi Line.\n\nTwo train service types operate on the Hokkaido Shinkansen: limited-stop \"Hayabusa\" services between Tokyo or Sendai and Shin-Hakodate-Hokuto, and semi-fast \"Hayate\" services between Morioka or Shin-Aomori and Shin-Hakodate-Hokuto.\n\nUnder the initial timetable, ten return \"Hayabusa\" services operate daily between Tokyo and Shin-Hakodate-Hokuto and one return service operates daily between Sendai and Shin-Hakodate-Hokuto. One return \"Hayate\" service operates daily between Morioka and Shin-Hakodate-Hokuto, and one return service daily operates between Shin-Aomori and Shin-Hakodate-Hokuto.\n\nInitially the maximum speed on the approximately dual-gauge section (including through the Seikan Tunnel) was . There are approximately 50 freight trains utilising the dual-gauge section each day, so limiting the travel of such trains to times outside of Shinkansen services is not an option. Because of this and other weather-related factors cited by JR East and JR Hokkaido, the fastest journey time between Tokyo and Shin-Hakodate-Hokuto was 4 hours, 2 minutes. The new section took 61 minutes from Shin-Aomori to Shin-Hakodate-Hokuto on the fastest services.\n\nBy 2018, it was proposed to allow one Shinkansen service each day to travel at (the maximum speed proposed for the tunnel) by ensuring no freight trains are scheduled to travel on the dual-gauge section at that time. To achieve the full benefit of Shinkansen trains travelling on the dual-gauge section at , other alternatives are being considered, such as a system to automatically slow Shinkansen trains down to when passing narrow-gauge trains, and loading freight trains onto special \"Train on Train\" standard-gauge trains (akin to a covered piggyback flatcar train) built to withstand the shock wave of oncoming Shinkansen trains traveling at full speed. This would enable a travel time from Tokyo to Shin-Hakodate-Hokuto of 3 hours and 45 minutes.\n\nThe tunnel speed limit was raised to in March 2019, saving 4 minutes on the Shin-Aomori to Shin-Hakodate trip.\n\nIn March 2019, JR Hokkaido announced that it had requested permission from the MLIT to increase the speed limit on the line to . If approved, it intends for the entire line to be outfitted for the new top speed by the time the full line opens in 2030, except for the dual-gauge section.\n\nAll services are formed of 10-car JR East E5 or JR Hokkaido H5 series trainsets.\n\nIn February 2014, JR Hokkaido placed an order for four 10-car H5 Series Shinkansen trainsets for use on Hokkaido Shinkansen services from March 2016. Based on the E5 series trainsets operated by JR East since 2011, the order for 40 vehicles cost approximately 18 billion yen. The first two sets of the order are scheduled to be delivered to Hakodate Depot by road from Hakodate Port in October 2014, with test running commencing before the end of the year. The remaining two sets on order are scheduled to be delivered in 2015. The vehicles feature the usual upper green and lower white livery, with a purple stripe in the middle. The color purple was chosen to represent the purple flowers of Hokkaido: lilacs, lupine and lavender. Inside, the ordinary-class cars feature wood paneling and carpet with a snowflake motif. Green class features cream-colored walls representing the local dairy industry and carpet with a drift-ice motif. Gran class features dark blue carpets, said to be modeled after the shimmering lakes and bodies of water along the route.\n\nIn the early 1970s, two other Shinkansen routes were proposed for Hokkaido: Sapporo - Asahikawa (Hokkaido Shinkansen extension) and Oshamambe - Muroran – Sapporo (Hokkaido South Route). There were also further unofficial plans to connect to Abashiri, Kushiro, and Nayoro/Wakkanai. These plans have been indefinitely shelved.\n\nOn 1 November 2014, a ceremony was held at Kikonai Station to mark the completion of track-laying for the line between Shin-Aomori and Shin-Hakodate-Hokuto.\n\nTest-running on the Hokkaido Shinkansen tracks within Hokkaido commenced from 1 December 2014, initially at low speeds, with the speed raised to the maximum of later that month. Test-running was extended through the Seikan Tunnel to Oku-Tsugaru-Imabetsu in December 2014. Test-running south of Oku-Tsugaru-Imabetsu commenced on 21 April 2015, with the first train reaching Shin-Aomori Station from the north in the early hours of 24 May.\n\nJR Hokkaido is extending the Hokkaido Shinkansen from Shin-Hakodate-Hokuto to , planned to open by 2030. Tunneling work on the Murayama tunnel, situated about north of Shin-Hakodate-Hokuto station commenced in March 2015, and is scheduled to be completed by March 2021. The extension will be approximately 76% in tunnels, including major tunnels such as Oshima (), Teine () and Shiribeshi ().\nWhen the section to Sapporo opens, the estimated journey time from Tokyo to Sapporo will be at most 5 hours and 1 minute, but the goal is for it to be below 4 hours.\n\n"}
{"id": "2024707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024707", "title": "Geum urbanum", "text": "Geum urbanum\n\nGeum urbanum, also known as wood avens, herb Bennet, colewort and St. Benedict's herb (Latin \"herba benedicta\"), is a perennial plant in the rose family (Rosaceae), which grows in shady places (such as woodland edges and near hedgerows) in Europe and the Middle East. It is introduced in North America, where it forms natural hybrids with \"Geum canadense\" (= \"Geum\" ×\"catlingii\" ).\n\n\"Geum urbanum\" hybridizes fairly regularly with \"Geum rivale\" (water avens), as they are closely related and occur together. In fact, the phenomenon is so conspicuous that hybrids were once treated as a species, named \"Geum intermedium\" \n\nUsually reaching a height between 20 and 60 cm, wood avens blooms between May and August, and its flowers are 1 – 2 cm in diameter, having five bright yellow petals. The hermaphrodite flowers are scented and pollinated by bees. The fruits have burrs, which are used for dispersal by getting caught in the fur of rabbits and other animals. The roots contain the compound eugenol which is also present in cloves and are used as a spice in soups and also for flavouring ale. \nIn folklore, wood avens is credited with the power to drive away evil spirits, and to protect against rabid dogs and venomous snakes. It was associated with Christianity because its leaves grew in threes and its petals in fives (reminiscent of, respectively, the Holy Trinity and the Five Wounds). Astrologically, it was said to be ruled by Jupiter.\n\nHerbalists use wood avens to treat various diseases, but there is no scientific evidence it has any benefit.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2024712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024712", "title": "Jommeke", "text": "Jommeke\n\nJommeke is a Flemish comic strip series in publication since 1955. It was created by Jef Nys and can be defined as a humoristic children's adventure series. Jommeke, an 11-year-old boy, is the series' main protagonist. It was originally published in \"Kerk en Leven\", before moving to \"Het Volk\", where it ran until the newspaper went bankrupt in 2010. It is now published in Het Nieuwsblad, De Gentenaar and De Standaard. \n\n\"Jommeke\" is very popular in Flanders and, together with \"Suske en Wiske,\" is the best-selling comic strip in the region. However, its success has always remained a purely Flemish phenomenon, as attempts at marketing foreign translations have all failed.\n\nThe first appearance of \"Jommeke\" was on 30 October 1955, as a gag-a-day strip in the Belgian magazine \"Kerk en Leven\". After moving to another newspaper, Het Volk, in 1958, \"Jommeke\" became a full length adventure comic strip, while Nys also continued \"Jommeke\" gag pages in\" 't Kapoentje\". \"Jommeke\" has sold 51 million albums in Belgium alone, which means an average of about 4.5 albums per person. This makes \"Jommeke\" the best-selling comic book series in Belgium behind Suske en Wiske. There's also a newspaper for children called \"Jommekeskrant\", which is delivered weekly together with popular Belgian newspaper \"Het Nieuwsblad\".\n\n\nAs of January 2012, the following \"Jommeke\" albums exist:\n(actual available German titles of German publisher stainlessArt in parentheses) \nThere are also some special albums, with a few games, jokes and some of the above stories added:\n\nApart from some editions for the Netherlands, \"Jommeke\" has been unsuccessfully translated into French, English, Finnish and Swedish.\n\nA German edition was published from 1971 until around 1980 and lasted 32 volumes (the original comics were printed out of order and volumes 27-28 do not exist!) by Gemini Verlag (1-18) and Europress (19-26, 29-34). The series title was \"(Die tollen Abenteuer von) Peter + Alexander\", obviously a play of words on Austrian actor and singer Peter Alexander.\n\nIn 2011, German editor stainlessART began republishing the German version of \"Jommeke\", keeping original names and places. See www.jommeke.de and www.facebook.com/JOMMEKE.de for further reference and an actual list of already published adventures. \n\nThe series was also published in translation as \"Jeremy\" in Indonesia, by children's book publisher BIP (Bhuana Ilmu Populer) in 2013.\n\nIn 2018, a Chinese translation was published in cooperation with Bright Media, with an initial run of 25 titles.\n\nIn 1968, Jef Nys directed a live-action film called \"De Schat van de Zeerover\" (\"The Pirate's Treasure\"), which was a low-budget adaptation of the eponymous \"Jommeke\" album. It was essentially an amateur project, made by him and his family members and starred his own son in the main role.\n\nOn July 31, 1997 Jommeke was the first comic book character to receive his own statue in Middelkerke, in front of the casino. It was sculpted by Valeer Peirsman. On March 26, 2014 Jommeke's statue became a victim of vandalism. It had to be restored and was placed back again on June 28, 2014. On July 29, 2006 Annemieke and Rozemieke also received a statue in Middelkerke, near the Theresiastraat. It was sculpted by Monique Mol. In 2015, it was announced that two other characters from the franchise, Filiberke and Pekkie, would also receive statues on the Zeedijk of Middelkerke.\n\nOn June 18, 2011 a wall depicting \"Jommeke\" characters was inaugurated near the Frans Halsplein in Antwerp.\n\nOn May 27, 2015 a special comic book wall was made in the Lokvogelstraat in Laeken, Belgium. It features a huge wall painting starring Jommeke and the main cast members.\n"}
{"id": "2024717", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024717", "title": "Miodrag Belodedici", "text": "Miodrag Belodedici\n\nMiodrag Belodedici (; Serbian Миодраг Белодедић / \"Miodrag Belodedić\"; born 20 May 1964) is a Romanian former professional footballer who played as a sweeper.\n\nNicknamed \"the deer\" due to his elegant tackles, he spent the majority of his 19-year professional career with Steaua Bucureşti (ten seasons), winning the European Cup with that team and Red Star Belgrade, thus becoming the first player (to play in the final) to win the trophy with two clubs. He also played in Spain and Mexico.\n\nBelodedici won 55 caps with Romania, representing the nation at the 1994 World Cup and two European Championships.\n\nBelodedici was born in a family of Serbian ethnicity in the village of Socol, near the border with Serbia. He began playing organized football at the late age of 16.\n\nBelodedici spoke only Serbian until elementary school, and completed his first four grades in that language. In the fifth he began learning Romanian, which he eventually mastered with the help from his Romanian junior national team team-mates Gavril Balint and Gheorghe Hagi. He joined the youth squad of Minerul Moldova Nouă in 1978, aged 14, his first coach being Olimp Mateescu; three years later he moved to Luceafărul București, a team created by the Romanian Football Federation for the purpose of gathering all talented young players in the country in one squad.\n\nIn the summer of 1982, Belodedici was signed by CSA Steaua Bucureşti, being selected by the club's chairman Ion Alecsandrescu, who was in search for a high quality sweeper. He finished his first season with 17 Liga I appearances, then proceeded to become a first-team regular in the following seasons as the club won five consecutive national championships, including four doubles.\n\nBelodedici helped Steaua become the first Romanian – and Eastern Europe – club to win the European Cup in 1985–86, playing the full 120 minutes in the final against FC Barcelona in Seville. He also started in the subsequent UEFA Super Cup, won against FC Dynamo Kyiv.\n\nIn 1988, when Nicolae Ceauşescu was still in power, Belodedici defected from his home country to the neighbouring Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. He later gave an account of his escape to Belgrade: once he saw himself in the city, he contacted the president of Red Star Belgrade, but could not get through due to widespread commotion in the team over their defeat in the derby with FK Partizan. A Serbian friend attempted to have him agree to sign for Partizan instead, but the player insisted that he would only play for Red Star; the president interrupted their conversation and, when he realized that he was in fact the 1986 European Cup winner, he immediately signed him.\n\nHowever, during his first year, Belodedici had to play without a legal contract, and only in friendly matches, as the Romanian authorities forged his professional player contract, and UEFA suspended him for one year on the basis of data furnished. The Ceaușescu regime found him guilty of treason and sentenced him to ten years of prison \"in absentia\"; after the Romanian Revolution of 1989, all charges were dropped, and Belodedici returned to Bucharest.\n\nIn 1989, Belodedici was given the green light to play for Red Star and, soon after, became a permanent fixture on the squad. In 1990–91 he won the European Cup for the second time, scoring in the final against Olympique de Marseille during the penalty shootout, and became the first player to conquer the tournament with two different clubs, by playing in both finals; amongst other accolades, he also won three Yugoslav First League championships in a row and one Cup.\n\nBelodedici signed with Valencia CF for the 1992–93 season, being a starter in his second year as the \"Che\" finished in seventh position, with no fewer than four managers being used during the campaign, including Guus Hiddink twice.\n\nHe moved to Real Valladolid in 1994, with the team ranking 19th but avoiding relegation as La Liga was expanded from 20 to 22 clubs. He spent his last season in Spain with Villarreal CF from Segunda División, in a return to the Valencian Community.\n\nBelodedici spent two years in Mexico with Atlante FC. In 1998, aged 34, he returned to his main club Steaua, still being a relatively important defensive unit and winning two major titles, including the 2001 national championship.\n\nBelodedici retired from football in June 2001, having appeared in 235 games in Romania's top flight (21 goals) and winning 11 major titles. Subsequently he worked with the Romanian Football Federation, coordinating national youth teams.\n\nBelodedici made his debut for Romania on 31 July 1984 – aged 20 – in a 1–0 friendly win over China. In 1987, he scored three of his five international goals, one in the UEFA Euro 1988 qualifiers against Albania (5–1 win in Bucharest).\n\nBecause of his escape to Yugoslavia, Belodedici was excluded from the national team during more than three years. He returned in time to be selected and play all the games at the 1994 FIFA World Cup in the United States as they exited in the quarter-finals, missing his attempt in the shootout against Sweden in the last-eight stage; additionally, he was selected for the Euro 1996 and Euro 2000 tournaments, totalling four appearances combined and reaching the quarter-finals in the latter.\n\nSteaua București\n\nRed Star Belgrade\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2024718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024718", "title": "Jean Ribault High School", "text": "Jean Ribault High School\n\nJean Ribault High School is a public high school located in North Jacksonville, Florida. It is part of Duval County Public Schools.\n\nRibault was one of 16 schools nationwide selected by the College Board for inclusion in the EXCELerator \"School Improvement Model\" program beginning the 2007-2008 school year. The project was funded by the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2024719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024719", "title": "West Buckland School", "text": "West Buckland School\n\nWest Buckland School is an English independent school in West Buckland, Devon. It comprises a senior school, preparatory school, and a nursery. It is a relatively high performing school in Devon. It was one of eight schools shortlisted for 'Boarding School of the Year' in the TES Independent School Awards 2019, a category won by Cottesmore School.\n\nThe school facilitates 640 pupils of whom around 140 board; 16% of students are international. The day pupils and weekly boarders are drawn from a wide area of North Devon and beyond, many using the large school bussing operation in collaboration with local coach operators.\n\nWest Buckland School was founded as the Devon County School in 1858 by Rev. J.L. Brereton to provide a public school education for sons of farmers and the middle class. The foundation stone of the Gothic(?)-style buildings was laid in October 1860 by Earl Fortescue, who had provided land and other support for the school.\n\nUnder the first headmaster, J.H. Thompson, numbers rose to 150 by 1876 and then declined as a consequence of agricultural depression and competition from other schools.\n\nIn the winter of 1912/13 the school was renamed West Buckland School.\n\nDuring the 1950s it received increasing support from the Devon County Educational authority and became a direct grant school. In 1976, when direct grants were abolished, it finally became a fully independent school.\n\nSince 2008, the school has expanded its facilities, that year saw the completion of a sports hall behind the nineteenth century complex. In April 2010, the \"150 Building\" opened, a combination of buildings containing modern art, design and technology workshops; a theatre which replaced an old theatre; an assembly space for the prep school and a quadrangle. In Autumn 2015, the 'Michael Morpurgo' library opened. In the building there is also the head of sixth form office; an English and economics classroom; the school library and a work area with computers for pupils. Also opened in 2015 was Parkers, a sixth form boarding house for boys and girls, with a downstairs lounge and kitchen for the use of day pupils as well.\n\nWest Buckland School has a four-house system, the houses being:\n\nNumerous inter-house competitions are held throughout the school year in music, drama, and sport, culminating in Sports' Day on the final day of the summer term. Points are awarded according to how well houses do in each competition and whichever house has amassed the largest number of points after Sports' Day wins the coveted Southcomb Shield.\n\nThe origins of the shield are detailed in an extract from \"West Buckland School 1858–1958. The First Hundred Years. A Review of a Century recorded by Friends and Pupils.\"\n\nOn July 31, 1917, there fell in action, E.H. Southcomb, then a Lieutenant in the Manchester Regiment. He was for many years a very cheerful member of the Brereton House, no great athlete but always ready to play his part to the best of his ability. On leaving West Buckland he went, by his father's wish, to Shrewsbury for two years, and then entered a bank, where he remained till war broke out. On his death it was found that he had left a legacy (£10 10s. 0d.) to the Sports Fund of his first school, and somewhat late it has at last been decided to perpetuate his memory by a Shield which will be held by the House which obtains the chief athletic cups in the School year, which starts in September. For this purpose, each of the Challenge Cups carries a definite mark. The allocation of marks for each cup was not an easy matter and even now the values may require re-adjustment in 1924. The Headmaster formed a committee consisting of Messrs. Corless, Taylor and Walton, and the list as issued by them will hold good at any rate till July, 1924. The winning House will hold the shield, which will be hung over their dining tables, and will also take the right of the line on ceremonial parades.\n\nThere are currently three main boarding houses at West Buckland:\nEach of the boarding houses has its own houseparent.\n\nFees per term in 2019: Day Fees: £2,690-£5,020; Boarding Fees: £8,115-£11,220.\n\nPrefect duties, which include care of younger students, are awarded to senior pupils within each house. The Head and Deputy Head of School are selected from the Senior Prefects. The prefect team typically consists of around 20 members of the upper sixth. They are split into five teams, each having responsibility for one day of the working week. There are also dedicated boarding prefects.\n\nAside from being Senior Prefects, sixth form members of each house have the opportunity to be Link Prefects. This is where two members of the sixth form are allocated to one tutor group within the house. They will generally visit the group once a week, usually on a Thursday.\n\nThe Old West Buckland Association provides regular newsletters to former pupils. It also organises sports matches between current school teams and teams of 'old boys' and 'old girls', as well as organising a number of social events.\n\nNotable alumni include:\n\n\nOn the last day of the academic year, the school holds its Speech Day and prize-giving ceremony. Pupils who have achieved excellence in academic, sporting and other fields are rewarded for their efforts and for their contribution to the school's success. Successful former pupils are often invited to make speeches, alongside a customary speech by the serving headmaster of the school.\n\nEvery year the school holds the Exmoor Run, essentially a cross-country run across Exmoor. The Senior Boys' Run is reputed to be the longest school cross-country run in the country, with a walk of eight miles to the start and a run of ten miles back to the finish (the school). Senior girls are required to walk six and to run seven and a half miles. Junior boys walk out five miles and run back five and a half, while Junior girls walk four and run four.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2024723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024723", "title": "West-Veluws dialect", "text": "West-Veluws dialect\n\nWest-Veluws is a Veluws dialect from the Dutch province of Gelderland. This dialect is spoken in different villages on the west side of the Veluwe and some villages on border of Gelderland and Utrecht (Bunschoten, Scherpenzeel et cetera). Sometimes even the dialect of Huizen in North Holland is seen as West-Veluws (but mostly as Hollandic).\n\nThere is a 'dictionary' (more like a theme book with the local Veluws translations of Dutch words).\n\nThe whole project is expected to be put online by 2010.\n\nWest-Veluws is a variety which lies between Low Franconian and Low Saxon. West-Veluws does however belong to Low Saxon because of its grammar, typical Low Saxon vocabulary and history.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2024725", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024725", "title": "Dennistoun Burney", "text": "Dennistoun Burney\n\nSir Charles Dennistoun Burney, 2nd Baronet (28 December 1888 – 11 November 1968, Bermuda) was an English aeronautical engineer, private inventor and Conservative Party politician.\n\nBurney, often called Dennis Burney, was the son of Admiral of the Fleet Sir Cecil Burney Bt. (Dennis Burney succeeded to the Baronetcy when his father died in 1929.) His sister was Sybil Katherine Neville-Rolfe. He was given a naval education, starting his training at HMS \"Britannia\" in 1903, and joining the battleship \"Exmouth\" as a midshipman in early 1905. He was posted to the destroyer HMS \"Crusader\" in 1909, which was being used for experimental anti-submarine work at the time.\n\nIn 1911, he came up with a novel seaplane design using a hydrofoil undercarriage. Further development was carried out by the Bristol and Colonial Aeroplane Company and two prototype designs, the X.2 and X.3, were produced, but were unsuccessful.\n\nOn the outbreak of World War I, Burney was given command of the destroyer HMS \"Velox\", but shortly afterwards joined the research establishment at HMS \"Vernon\". There he developed the paravane, an anti-mine device, for which he took out a number of patents in 1916. These were to earn him around £350,000 during the course of the war through their use by foreign merchant fleets. In 1920 Burney retired from the navy with the rank of lieutenant-commander, and was promoted on the retired list to commander.\n\nHe then became a consultant with Vickers and came up with a plan for civil airship development which was to be carried out by Vickers with support from the Government. This evolved into the Imperial Airship Scheme which was to result in the R100 and R101 airships: Burney became managing director of the specially formed subsidiary of Vickers that built the R100 airship, where his design team, headed by Barnes Wallis, included Nevil Shute Norway, later to become known as a novelist.\n\nIn 1929, he published a book called \"The World, the Air and the Future\".\n\nHis private interests led him to set up a company, Streamline Cars Ltd, to build technically advanced aerodynamic rear-engined cars from 1930–34: this was taken up by Crossley Motors.\n\nBurney was Member of Parliament (MP) for Uxbridge from 1922 until he retired in 1929.\n\nIn 1939, he was again joined by Nevil Shute in the development of an early air-launched gliding torpedo, the Toraplane, and the Doravane glide bomb. Despite much work and many trials the Toraplane could not be launched with repeatable accuracy and was finally abandoned in 1942.\nAmong other military weapons, he was the inventor of the High Explosive Squash Head (HESH) shell and a British recoilless rifle, the \"Burney gun\". He demonstrated the advantages of the latter by constructing a recoilless shotgun with a bore which he was able to shoot with no discomfort from the recoil. During World War II, he led development of a recoilless weapon for the British Army which entered service as Ordnance, RCL, 3.45 in, but too late to see service during the war.\n\nIn 1921, he married Gladys, who was originally from Chicago. They had a son in 1923, Cecil Dennistoun Burney, who succeeded his father in the Burney baronetcy in 1968.\n"}
{"id": "2024729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024729", "title": "Bullet Joe Simpson", "text": "Bullet Joe Simpson\n\nHarold Edward Joseph \"Bullet Joe\" Simpson (August 23, 1893 – December 26, 1973) was a Canadian professional ice hockey defenceman who played for the Edmonton Eskimos and New York Americans. He was inducted into the Hockey Hall of Fame.\n\nSimpson was born in Selkirk, Manitoba. Nicknamed \"Bullet\" because of very fast skating ability, he started his career in the Canadian west. He learned the sport of ice hockey on a frozen slough, near his house, during the early 1900s. As Simpson once stated, Manitoba Avenue ran east and west in the middle of Selkirk. The boys living in the north end were the northern team and those south of Manitoba Avenue made up the southern team. After graduating from the Selkirk Fishermen Juniors, Simpson played senior ice hockey with the Winnipeg Victorias of the NHA in 1914–15.\n\nPrior to enlisting in the Canadian Army for World War I, Simpson captained the 1916 Allan Cup Champions 61st Battalion Team of Winnipeg. During the war he served with the 43rd Cameron Highlanders and his unit held part of the British front alongside a battalion commanded by Major Winston Churchill. Simpson was wounded twice during the war, once at the Battle of the Somme, and once at Amiens. He received the Military Medal.\n\nSimpson returned home in February 1919 having achieved the rank of lieutenant. He was in time to play in the last four games of the ice hockey season for his hometown Selkirk Fisherman Seniors of the Manitoba Seniors League. He started again for the Seniors the following year.\n\nIn 1920, at 5'10\" and 175 pounds, the right-handed defenceman's break came in a Winnipeg pool room when Kenny MacKenzie of the Big 4's Edmonton Eskimos offered him $3,000 to turn professional. Simpson joined the Eskimos in 1920, signing as a free agent on November 4.\n\nIn 1921–22, he won a Western Hockey League first team all-star berth. He was named to the first team on three occasions and to the second team once. At that time, Newsy Lalonde called Simpson the greatest living hockey player. His end-to-end rushes were legendary and without comparison.\n\nWhen the Western Hockey League ceased operations at the end of the 1924–25 season, Simpson's contract was purchased by the New York Americans of the National Hockey League. Simpson, John Morrison and Roy Rickey were traded September 18, 1925 for $10,000. Simpson played six seasons with the Amerks and in 1931 took on the role of team coach for three years. He later managed the New Haven and Minneapolis teams.\n\nSimpson moved to Florida in 1938 to promote ice hockey. He later suffered a heart attack that kept him inactive for two years. Another retired ice hockey player and Floridian came to his aid. Art Coulter hired him to work at the Coulter White's hardware store in Coral Gables, Florida, a position he held until 1965.\n\nSimpson was inducted into the Hockey Hall of Fame in 1963. He died December 25, 1973, in Coral Gables at the age of 80. In 1975, he was inducted into Canada's Sports Hall of Fame.\n\nIn 1994, the Marine Museum of Manitoba in Selkirk restored a 1963 flat-bottomed freighter which is now on display and renamed the \"Harold Bullet Joe Simpson\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2024733", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024733", "title": "Polish Crown Jewels", "text": "Polish Crown Jewels\n\nThe only surviving original piece of the Polish Crown Jewels from the time of the Piast dynasty is the ceremonial sword – Szczerbiec. It is currently on display along with other preserved royal items at the Wawel Royal Castle Museum in Kraków.\n\nSeveral royal crowns were made, including several during the 16th Century, a \"Hungarian Crown\", a \"Swedish Crown\" used by the Vasa kings, and others that were subsequently lost or destroyed. The crown regalia used by the Saxon kings, and some remainders of older Polish monarchs which were appropriated by king Augustus II, also the Elector of Saxony; like a cup of Queen Jadwiga so-called \"roztruchan\", and the magnificent scale armour, so-called \"karacena\", of King John III Sobieski are today on display in the Grünes Gewölbe and the Rüstkammer in Dresden, Germany.\n\nIn AD 1000, during his pilgrimage to the tomb of Saint Adalbert in Gniezno, the capital of Poland until about 1040, Emperor Otto III officially recognized Duke Bolesław I the Brave as King of Poland (see Congress of Gniezno), crowning him and presenting him with a replica of the Holy Lance, also known as Saint Maurice's Spear. This relic, together with the \"vexillum\" attached to it, was probably the first insignia of the nascent Kingdom of Poland, a symbol of King Bolesław's rule, and of his allegiance to the Emperor. It remains unknown what images, if any, were painted or embroidered on the \"vexillum\".\n\nStarting from 1320 the regalia of the Polish kings were kept in the treasury of the Wawel Cathedral. In 1370 Louis I of Hungary decided to transfer the Polish regalia to Hungary and they were returned in 1412 to Andrzej of Rożnów embassy by Emperor Sigismund of Luxemburg. During the reign of the Jagiellons the regalia were moved from the cathedral to the Wawel Castle and placed in the specially prepared Crown Treasury. In the 17th century they were repeatedly brought to Warsaw for the coronations of the Polish Queens. During the Deluge in 1655, the royal insignia were evacuated from the castle by Jerzy Sebastian Lubomirski, Grand Marshal of the Crown and hidden in the old castle in Stará Ľubovňa. They were stored there until 1661. In 1703 during the Great Northern War they were hidden again, first in Silesia, then in Moravia. During the double election of 1733, the regalia were stolen by the follower of Stanisław I Leszczyński, Franciszek Maksymilian Ossoliński, Grand Treasurer of the Crown, who concealed them in the Holy Cross Church in Warsaw. In 1734, however, they were recovered from the hideout and deposited in the Jasna Góra Monastery, where they remained till 1736. In 1764, with the consent of the Sejm, the royal insignia were transported to Warsaw for the coronation of King Stanisław II August. Later returned to the Wawel Castle, where they were kept till the Third Partition of Poland in 1795.\n\nOn 15 June 1794 the Prussian Army entered Kraków and captured Wawel Castle, subsequently turning it into a fortress. Shortly thereafter, the city commandant, general Leopold von Reuts began a correspondence with Berlin on the fate of furnishings of the Polish kings' residence. In the greatest secrecy, by order of king Frederick William II of Prussia, he was commanded to transfer the content of the Crown Treasury to the Secret Councillor Anton Ludwig von Hoym, who was to secure its transport via Silesia to Berlin. The locksmith brought by the Prussians broke the locks of the treasury and then opened all the boxes. The valuables were transported in 1794 and found their place in the collection of the Hohenzollerns in Berlin.\n\nIn 1800 the valuables were stored in the Berlin City Palace, where they were admired by Prince Augustus Frederick, Duke of Sussex, as he informed Julian Ursyn Niemcewicz. In 1809 the Polish regalia were valued at 525,259 thalers and shortly after, on 17 March 1809, in accordance with the decision of Frederick William III of Prussia, all of them were melted down. The obtained gold was reused to make coins, while precious stones and pearls were handed to the Directorate of Maritime Trade in Berlin.\n\nAccording to an inventory of the State Treasury at the Wawel performed in 1633 by the Jerzy Ossoliński, Great Crown Chancellor the \"Crown Regalia\" of the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth (kept in five chests) consisted of:\n\nAlso a private treasury of the Vasas (kept at the Royal Castle in Warsaw) consisted of:\n\nIn 1697 a Freiburg goldsmith Johann Friedrich Klemm executed a replacement for the regalia, known as the Crown of Augustus II the Strong and intended for his coronation as a King of Poland. It was never used however, because two monks broke into the State Treasury in the Wawel Castle and stole the original regalia. The Augustus II Crown is kept in the Dresden Armory.\n\nAll of the original crown regalia were looted by the Prussians (except for the \"Muscovy Crown\") in 1795 after the Third Partition of the Commonwealth and destroyed on the order of Frederick William III of Prussia in March 1809 (except for the Szczerbiec).\n\nIn 1925 Polish Government purchased the silver regalia of King Augustus III and Queen Maria Josepha in Vienna for $35,000 (175,000 zł). It consisted of two crowns, two sceptres and two orbs made in about 1733. The original \"Crown Regalia\" were hidden by Franciszek Maksymilian Ossoliński during the War of the Polish Succession. The jewels were exhibited in Warsaw until 1939 and in 1940 they were stolen by German forces. Later they were found by the Soviet troops in Germany and sent to the USSR where they remained until 1960, when they were returned to Poland. Today they are deposited in the National Museum in Warsaw.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2024736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024736", "title": "The Dark Age (Buffy the Vampire Slayer)", "text": "The Dark Age (Buffy the Vampire Slayer)\n\n\"The Dark Age\" is episode eight of season two of \"Buffy the Vampire Slayer\". It was written by Executive Story Editors Rob Des Hotel & Dean Batali and was directed by Bruce Seth Green. The narrative follows Giles, whose friend has died, prompting the Scooby Gang to unravel his mysterious past; meanwhile, Buffy crashes into Ethan Rayne again.\n\nA man is hurriedly making his way through the school grounds trying to find Giles, when he is approached by a decomposing woman, \"Deidre\". The corpse strangles him, before falling to the ground and dissolving.\n\nGiles tells Buffy to meet him later at the hospital where there will be a blood delivery, which attracts vampires. When Giles gets back to the library, a detective is waiting for him who informs Giles that there was a homicide on campus and the dead man had Giles' address on him. Giles identifies the body as an old friend from London, Henry Phillip. The body has a tattoo, which Giles claims he does not recognize.\n\nShaken, Giles does not meet Buffy at the hospital, and she battles the doctor-dressed vampires alone until Angel shows up. She goes to check on Giles who looks dishevelled and appears to have been drinking. He calls another friend in London and finds out that she is dead too. As he rolls up his sleeves, we see he has the same tattoo as Phillip. Meanwhile, Phillip comes back to life in the morgue, his eyes flashing, and escapes.\n\nOn Saturday, Cordelia finally tells Buffy about the homicide detective's visit. In the library, Buffy finds Giles' former friend Ethan, the costume shop owner who had caused chaos on Halloween. As she calls Giles, Ethan mentions the \"Mark of Eyghon\". Giles says she is in danger, and the dead Phillip enters.\n\nA panicked Giles shows up and, after a scuffle which leaves Jenny unconscious, Phillip dissolves. When Jenny comes to, she seems normal but her eyes flash. Willow discovers the \"Mark of Eyghon\" in a book: the demon Eyghon has the ability to possess the body of a dead or unconscious host. They figure out that the demon has jumped from Phillip's body to Jenny's. Possessed, Jenny tries to seduce Giles at his apartment. When Buffy comes to the rescue, Jenny jumps out the window. Giles explains to Buffy that he ran with a bad crowd when he was young, and they used the demon Eyghon as a temporary high – directing him in and out of each other's bodies. But one friend died, then Deidre, and now it seems the rest of the group is being killed.\n\nBuffy goes to the deserted costume shop to try to defend Ethan against Eyghon/Jenny. Ethan knocks her out, ties her up and puts the mark of Eyghon on her. He then uses acid to remove his own tattoo so that Eyghon will take Buffy instead of him. Jenny enters, completely demonic, and Buffy breaks free. Angel arrives and chokes Jenny until she loses consciousness, whereupon Eyghon moves to the nearest dead body: that of Angel. The two demons, the vampire within and Eyghon, fight for control in Angel's body, and Eyghon is destroyed. Jenny returns to normal, but Ethan escapes.\n\nAccording to the AV Club, \"The Dark Age\" formed a good companion to the episode \"Lie To Me\", further exploring themes of good and evil and how light and dark can exist in the same character. It also provides insight into the character of Giles, who is central to the episode, and illustrates a common theme of Buffy, that \"stains spread\", that bad deeds can have long-running consequences. \"Critically Touched\" found it interesting thematically but poor on the technical level with \"far too many scenes that feel very awkwardly stitched together\".\n\n\"The Dark Age\" had an audience of 3.7 million households on its original airing.\n\n"}
{"id": "2024741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024741", "title": "Alf Smith (ice hockey)", "text": "Alf Smith (ice hockey)\n\nAlfred Edward Smith (June 3, 1873 in Ottawa, Ontario – August 21, 1953 in Ottawa, Ontario) was a Canadian professional ice hockey forward who played for the Ottawa Senators, ( \"Silver Seven\") and Kenora Thistles. He had six younger brothers who played senior-level hockey in Ottawa: Daniel (b. 1876), John (b. 1878), Harry (b. 1883), Tommy (b. 1886), Billy (b. 1889) and George Smith (b. 1891). He was captain of the Ottawa Hockey Club and also coached the team.\n\nAlf Smith began his hockey career playing for the Ottawa Hockey Club (Ottawa HC) of the AHAC in the 1890s. In 1897 he retired from the Ottawa HC. In 1898, he played for the Ottawa Capitals intermediate team, but did not finish the season because he was ruled to be ineligible. In 1896, Smith had accepted a $100 bonus for play with the Capitals lacrosse team. By 1898, the Amateur Athletic Association of Canada ruled that he was ineligible for play in amateur hockey. He would not play for several years, but did coach the Ottawa Hockey Club to the 1901 CAHL title.\n\nIn 1901–02, he returned to active play, as a professional, in the Western Pennsylvania Hockey League for Pittsburgh. The following year he returned to Canada to coach the Ottawa HC to their first Stanley Cup championship against the Montreal Victorias in 1903. In 1903–04 he became reinstated as an amateur and he returned to play, playing right wing on a line that featured \"One Eyed\" Frank McGee. As a player-coach, he would eventually lead the team to consecutive Stanley Cup victories in 1904, 1905, and 1906, the club by then known as the \"Silver Seven\".\n\nIn 1907, McGee retired and his place on the top line was taken by Alf's brother Harry. At the conclusion of the 1907 ECAHA season, Smith moved west to play with the Stanley Cup champion Kenora Thistles, playing in the MPHL finals. He was also a player during their unsuccessful Stanley Cup challenge rematch versus the Montreal Wanderers, where his presence along with Harry Westwick caused the series to be played under protest. He played one final season with Ottawa in 1908, scoring 12 goals in 9 games.\n\nIn 1908–09, he had an eventful season. Lured back to Pittsburgh for the newly reformed Western Pennsylvania Hockey League, he was suspended from two teams for rough play. He returned to Ottawa and played with several former Silver Seven players on the Senators of the Federal League. He made time that season to coach the Ottawa Cliffsides to the first Allan Cup championship, only to lose it to Queen's University in a challenge. This was his final season of play.\n\nIn 1909-10, he resumed his coaching career with Renfrew, the so-called \"Millionaires\" of the new National Hockey Association (NHA). He returned to coach the Ottawa Hockey Club in 1913 and coached the team until 1917. Smith later coached and managed teams in Moncton, New Brunswick, and North Bay, Ontario.\n\nAlong with Harvey Pulford, Harry Westwick and Russell Bowie, Smith was one of the final active players who had played major senior hockey in the 19th century. He was inducted into the Hockey Hall of Fame in 1962.\n\nSource: \n\n"}
{"id": "2024742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024742", "title": "Lorenzo Thomas", "text": "Lorenzo Thomas\n\nLorenzo Thomas (October 26, 1804 – March 2, 1875) was a career United States Army officer who was Adjutant General of the Army at the beginning of the American Civil War. After the war, he was appointed temporary Secretary of War by U.S. President Andrew Johnson, precipitating Johnson's impeachment.\n\nThomas was born in New Castle, Delaware. He graduated from the United States Military Academy in 1823, and was commissioned a second lieutenant in the 4th U.S. Infantry. He fought in the Seminole War in Florida and, during the Mexican–American War, he was the chief of staff to General William O. Butler. He received a brevet promotion to lieutenant colonel for Monterrey, which was made permanent in 1852. From 1853 to 1861, he served as chief of staff to the commanding general of the U.S. Army, Winfield Scott.\n\nJust before the start of the Civil War, Thomas was promoted to colonel and adjutant general of the U.S. Army on March 7, 1861. On August 10, 1861, U.S. President Abraham Lincoln appointed Thomas a brigadier general in the regular army, to rank from August 3, 1861, the date Lincoln sent the nomination to the U.S. Senate for confirmation. The Senate confirmed the appointment on August 5, 1861. Camp Thomas, a Regular Army training base in Columbus, Ohio, was named in his honor in July 1861. He held the position of adjutant general until he retired in 1869, except for a special assignment to recruit African-American troops in the Military Division of the Mississippi from 1863 to 1865.\n\nThomas did not get along well with Secretary of War Edwin M. Stanton and this assignment outside of Washington, D.C., was considered a form of banishment. Many historians have claimed Thomas was banished in disgrace after conspiring to defame Union General William T. Sherman as insane. Thomas was replaced by Maj. Gen. Edward D. Townsend as Adjutant General, who would serve until 1880.\n\nFrom March 17 to July 23, 1862, he served as the chairman of the War Board, the organization that assisted U.S. President Abraham Lincoln and Secretary Stanton in the management of the War Department and the command of the Union armies during the period in which there was no general-in-chief.\n\nOn April 6, 1863, General Thomas was sent by the War Department to Helena, Arkansas to recruit freedmen into the U.S. Army. He created the first black troop in Arkansas, fighting for Union side as part of Bureau of Colored Troops, which was created by the War Department on May 22, 1863.\n\nOn March 8, 1866, U.S. President Andrew Johnson nominated Thomas to the grade of brevet major general in the regular army, and the U.S. Senate confirmed the appointment on July 14, 1866.\n\nOn February 21, 1868, President Johnson attempted to replace Stanton by appointing Thomas as Secretary of War \"ad interim\". Thomas, still stinging from his bad treatment by Stanton, boasted of his ability and determination to oust him from office by force, if necessary. Some historians believe that it was this attitude in his testimony at Johnson's impeachment trial in the Senate that was partially responsible for Johnson's acquittal. Thomas retired from the Army on February 22, 1869, ten days before Johnson left office. He died in Washington, D.C., and is buried in Oak Hill Cemetery, Georgetown.\n\nFort Thomas, a military post established in Arizona Territory in 1876, was named for Thomas.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2024751", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024751", "title": "The Dancing Master", "text": "The Dancing Master\n\nThe Dancing Master (first edition: The English Dancing Master) is a dancing manual containing the music and instructions for English country dances. It was published in several editions by John Playford and his successors from 1651 until . The first edition contained 105 dances with single-line melodies; subsequent editions introduced new songs and dances, while dropping others, and the work eventually encompassed three volumes.\n\nDances from \"The Dancing Master\" were re-published in arrangements by Cecil Sharp in the early 20th century, and in these reconstructed forms remain popular among dancers today.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2024753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024753", "title": "Pangani District", "text": "Pangani District\n\nPangani is one of the ten districts of Tanga Region in Tanzania. It is bordered to the north by the Muheza District, to the east by the Indian Ocean, to the south by the Pwani Region and to the west by the Handeni District.\n\nThe center is Pangani.\n\nAccording to the 2002 Tanzania National Census, the population of the Pangani District was 44,107. According to the 2012 Tanzania National Census, the population of Pangani District was 54,025.\n\nAs of 2012, Lushoto District is administratively divided into 13 wards:\n"}
{"id": "2024757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024757", "title": "Clint Smith", "text": "Clint Smith\n\nClinton James \"Snuffy\" Smith (December 12, 1913 – May 19, 2009) was a Canadian professional ice hockey centre and head coach best known for his time spent in the National Hockey League (NHL) as a player with the New York Rangers and the Chicago Black Hawks. Following Smith's 10-year NHL career, he served as both a head coach and player in the United States Hockey League (USHL) and American Hockey League (AHL).\n\nPrior to beginning his NHL career with the New York Rangers in 1936–37, Smith played in several minor professional leagues. After splitting his first professional season in 1932–33 with the Springfield Indians of the Canadian-American Hockey League (CAHL) and Saskatoon Crescents of the West Coast Hockey League (WCHL), Smith moved further west to play for the Vancouver Lions of the North West Hockey League (NWHL), where he led the league in scoring with 25 goals in his rookie year. He then went on to lead the league in points the next two seasons with 44- and 53-point campaigns.\n\nIn 1936–37, Smith joined the International-American Hockey League (I-AHL), precursor to the American Hockey League (AHL), and finished second in league scoring to Jack Markle with 54 points as a member of the Philadelphia Ramblers. He helped lead his team to the Finals of the inaugural Calder Cup championship, but lost to the Syracuse Stars in four games of what was a five-game series.\n\nSmith began his NHL career with the Rangers with a short 2-game stint in , during which he notched his first NHL career goal. He quickly became an integral player on the Rangers roster, leading the team in scoring in his second full NHL season in with 41 points. Going the length of the campaign with just one minor penalty, he was also awarded the Lady Byng Trophy, his first of two in his career. The following season, he helped lead the Rangers to the Stanley Cup championship, defeating the Toronto Maple Leafs in six games (the win was the Rangers' last before their 54-year Cup drought, ending in 1994).\n\nDespite winning the Stanley Cup that year, however, Smith's production began to tail off with the Rangers, scoring only 24 points that championship year. Despite improving to 33 points in , Smith ended his 6-year tenure with the Rangers following that season.\n\nJoining the Chicago Black Hawks in 1943–44, Smith rejuvenated his career playing on a line with future fellow Hockey Hall of Famers, Bill Mosienko and Doug Bentley. He recorded 23 goals and established an NHL record for single-season assists with 49 (broken the following season by Elmer Lach of the Montreal Canadiens) for an NHL career-high 72 points. The combined total of Mosienko, Bentley and Smith's points that season also set an NHL record for a line with 219. Smith's record-setting season was complemented by a second Lady Byng Trophy, having only accumulated 4 penalty minutes.\n\nThe following season, in 1944–45, Smith succeeded Bentley Smith set another NHL record with a four-goal period against the Montreal Canadiens on March 4, 1945 (Smith shares the record with several other players). The remainder of Smith's four-season stay in Chicago was not met with as much offensive success as his initial campaign with the team, but he did, however, record three straight 20-goal seasons, including a personal best 26-goal season in 1945–46. After his production dipped to 26 points in 1946–47, he retired from the NHL.\n\nSmith returned to the minor leagues in 1947–48, joining the short-lived United States Hockey League (USHL) with the Tulsa Oilers. He led Tulsa in scoring with 71 points in his only season while also serving as the team's head coach. Finishing in the top ten in league scoring, he won the Herman W. Paterson Cup as league MVP.\n\nThe following season, he also did double duty playing and coaching in St. Paul Saints, where he played for three seasons. In 1951–52, Smith joined the Cincinnati Mohawks of the AHL, coaching them to the second round of the Calder Cup playoffs and playing in a limited role, appearing in just 2 games. Smith retired following his one-season stint with the Mohawks both as a coach and player.\n\nFollowing Smith's retirement, he returned to Vancouver, where he had competed in the NWHL to play oldtimers hockey. He made his residence there and became a founding member of the British Columbia Hockey Benevolent Association, also known as the Canucks Alumni, and at one point held the position of president.\n\nThirty-nine years following his professional retirement, Smith was inducted into the Hockey Hall of Fame in 1991.\n\nAt the time of his death on June 15, 2008, Ray Getliffe, a left winger who played for the Boston Bruins and Montreal Canadiens was said to be the oldest living person to have played in the NHL. Later, it was reported that Smith was the oldest living person to have ever played in the NHL. Both these reports, however, overlooked players who had only played a limited number of games, such as Louis Holmes and Al Suomi. Getliffe, who died at the age of 94, was just several months younger than Smith at the time of his death, while Holmes and Suomi were 97 and 95, respectively at that time. On May 19, 2009, Smith died at the age of 95, leaving Suomi as the oldest living NHL player, at the current age of 99.\n\nHe was the last surviving member of Rangers 1940 Stanley Cup team.\n\nIn the 2009 book \"100 Ranger Greats\", the authors ranked Smith at No. 35 all-time of the 901 New York Rangers who had played during the team's first 82 seasons.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2024760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024760", "title": "Walter A. Starr Jr.", "text": "Walter A. Starr Jr.\n\nWalter A. \"Pete\" Starr Jr. (1903–1933) was an American lawyer and mountain climber.\n\nA graduate of Stanford University, Starr was a respected lawyer in San Francisco, but he is better known for his abilities as a mountain climber and an explorer of the Sierra Nevada. Starr was well known for his hiking ability in the mountains, sometimes walking up to 50 miles a day for several days in a row. Starr was a life member of the Sierra Club.\n\nIn August 1933, he failed to return from a month-long hike in the Minarets. The search that followed, which led to the eventual discovery of his body by Norman Clyde, is one of the most dramatic true tales of the Sierra exploration. His body was buried where it was found.\n\nStarr's final notes were compiled and edited by his father into \"Starr’s Guide to the John Muir Trail and the High Sierra Region\" which was published a year after his death by the Sierra Club. This book has been edited and revised many times and served hikers and climbers for many years as the standard reference to the trails of the Sierra. A revised version is currently available.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2024764", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024764", "title": "Fangzhuang", "text": "Fangzhuang\n\nFangzhuang (方庄) is a vast residential area in southern Beijing. It is located in northern Fengtai District and is bounded to the north and south by the 2nd and 3rd Ring Roads and to the west and east by Tiantan Dong Lu and Fangzhuang Dong Lu. Fangzhuang was developed in 1985, and was the first \"modernized\" residential area of Beijing. It features dense concentrations of high rise apartments, along with several primary and secondary schools, hospitals, a courthouse and the Fangzhuang Sports Park.\n\nFangzhuang is divided into four neighborhoods: 芳古园 (Fangguyuan), 芳城园 (Fangchengyuan), 芳群园 (Fangqunyuan), 芳星园 (Fangxingyuan). The second character of each neighborhood name, taken together, spells 古城群星, which means the \"stars of the ancient city.\" Historically, Fangzhuang was well known as an area where the affluent of southern Beijing lived (南城富人区).\n\nFangzhuang is served by Line 5 of the Beijing Subway and by many city bus routes. \n\nFangzhuang is home to the Ezone Sk8 Park.\n"}
{"id": "2024765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024765", "title": "Hooley Smith", "text": "Hooley Smith\n\nReginald Joseph \"Hooley\" Smith (January 7, 1903 – August 24, 1963) was a Canadian professional ice hockey forward who played for the Ottawa Senators, Montreal Maroons, Boston Bruins and New York Americans. He won the Stanley Cup twice, with Ottawa and Montreal. He is possibly the first National Hockey League player to wear a helmet.\n\nBorn in Toronto, Ontario, Smith played amateur hockey for the Toronto Granites team that won the Allan Cup and a gold medal for Canada at the 1924 Winter Olympics. He had an outstanding Olympic ice hockey tournament, scoring 17 goals and 33 points in five games.\n\nHe started his professional career with the 'Super Six' of the Ottawa Senators the following winter. In his first season with Ottawa, he received a head injury. When he returned to play he wore a jockey-type helmet to protect his head. In 1926–27, Ottawa won the Stanley Cup against Boston. It was the last game that Smith played with Ottawa. After attacking Harry Oliver in the final game of that series, he was suspended for a month of the following year. Ottawa had lost money during the season despite winning the Stanley Cup and the team sold Smith to the Montreal Maroons.\n\nAs a member of the Maroons, Hooley would be a part of one of the best early forward lines in NHL history, the \"S line\". He, Nels Stewart and Albert \"Babe\" Siebert made up the famous line that was feared throughout the NHL. Smith was named captain of the Maroons and was their captain when the team won its final Stanley Cup in 1935.\n\nBy the mid-1930s the Maroons were experiencing financial difficulties and he was sold to Boston, where he only played for one season. He then was sold to the New York Americans. Starting with 1938–39, he played defence for the Americans until 1940–41 after which he retired.\n\nHooley Smith died as a result of a heart attack on August 24, 1963 at St. Mary's Hospital in Montreal. At the time of his death, he was the last surviving member of the famed \"S\" line. He was inducted into the Hockey Hall of Fame in 1972.\n\nSource: Legends of Hockey Statistics for Hooley Smith\n"}
{"id": "2024766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024766", "title": "Freeport FC", "text": "Freeport FC\n\nFreeport Rugby Football Club are one of the five men's teams in the Grand Bahama Football League, representing their home city of Freeport, Bahamas.\n\nThe annual winner of the Grand Bahamas League flies to the capital Nassau to play a triangle tournament with the winner of the Abaco League and the New Providence League to find the National Champion of Bahamas title. In the last years for organisational reason the triangle-tournament was not played. So the national champions were automatically the three winners of the three leagues.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2024767", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024767", "title": "Ordnance, RCL, 3.45 in", "text": "Ordnance, RCL, 3.45 in\n\nThe 3.45 inch RCL was an 88mm British recoilless weapon, designed by Sir Dennis Burney during the Second World War. Delayed by problems due to breech wear because of gas erosion upon firing, it did not see action, as was hoped, in the Far East, particularly Burma. However it did lead to the post war Mobat and Wombat recoilless rifles.\n\nThe 3.45 inch RCL was built by the Broadway Trust Company, a company formed by Sir Dennis himself.\nSir Dennis was privy to the design of the 20mm m/42, a recoilless rifle designed by the Swedish Bofors Carl Gustaf company during World War 2, but it had little bearing on his work as the Carl Gustav was a large bore rifle design intended to remove the recoil experienced with anti-tank rifles such as the Boys anti-tank rifle or similar large calibre bolt-action rifles which required large cartridges to deliver high velocity rounds. The usefulness of anti-tank rifles was lost as tanks were built with much thicker armour during the war. Although Burney's designs did not have high muzzle velocities, this was compensated for by the use of a shell which relied on a HESH explosive instead of speed and weight to penetrate the armour.\n\nThis was a weapon that could be fired from the shoulder, giving unrestricted traverse or elevation within the limits of the human frame, or mounted on a simple tripod.\nA portion of the propelling charge bled through holes in the cartridge wall and into a space around the breech and then backwards through four venturis. This counter blast backwards cancelled out the recoil.\n\nOrdnance, RCL, 3.45in Mk 1\n"}
{"id": "2024788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024788", "title": "Allan Stanley", "text": "Allan Stanley\n\nAllan Herbert Stanley (March 1, 1926 – October 18, 2013) was a Canadian professional ice hockey defenceman who played for the New York Rangers, Chicago Blackhawks, Boston Bruins, Philadelphia Flyers and Toronto Maple Leafs of the National Hockey League, and the Western Hockey League version of the Vancouver Canucks. A four-times Stanley Cup winner and three-times member of the second NHL All-Star Team, Stanley was inducted to the Hockey Hall of Fame in 1981.\n\nStanley spent the 1943 through 1948 seasons with various teams including the Boston Olympics of the EHL, Porcupine Combines of the NOHA and the Providence Reds of AHL. He finally began his storied NHL career in 1948–49 with the New York Rangers.\nHe played five years in New York before spending the 1953–54 season in the WHL with Vancouver. Stanley started his 1954–55 season in New York with the Rangers and was soon traded to the Chicago Black Hawks where he finished that season and the next.\n\nStanley spent the 1956–57 and 1957–58 season with the Boston Bruins and went on to spend ten years with the Toronto Maple Leafs, where he would be named one of the team's alternate captains. He acquired the nicknames \"Snowshoes\" and \"Silent Sam\" for his slow, plodding skating style, but he was a strong stay-at-home defender and an important part of the Leafs teams that won four Stanley Cups in six years in the 1960s in 1962, 1963, 1964, 1967.\n\nAfter the 1967 Cup win, Stanley finished off his career playing for the Philadelphia Flyers during 1968–69.\n\nIn 1,244 NHL regular season games, he scored 100 goals, 333 assists for a total of 433 points. He had a total of 792 minutes in the penalty box.\n\nHe was inducted into the Hockey Hall of Fame in 1981.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2024791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024791", "title": "Pegasus Software", "text": "Pegasus Software\n\nPegasus Software is based in Kettering, England and develops accounting and financial management, supply chain, business intelligence, payroll, crm, construction and service management software applications for small and medium-sized businesses.\n\nThe company was founded in 1981 and was among the first software houses in the UK to launch its applications for the MS-DOS platform. Since then Pegasus has become firmly established as one of the major suppliers of modular accounting, business and payroll software solutions to SMEs.\n\nToday there are around 25,000 Pegasus software application licenses in use, its predominant market is the UK and Ireland and the company employs around 80 people. The products are sold through a network of 80 Partners. Pegasus operated as a subsidiary of a larger British software group, Systems Union Group plc. until August 2006, but now operates as a subsidiary business unit of Infor Global Solutions.\n\n"}
{"id": "2024795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024795", "title": "Mathematical formulation of the Standard Model", "text": "Mathematical formulation of the Standard Model\n\nThis article describes the mathematics of the Standard Model of particle physics, a gauge quantum field theory containing the internal symmetries of the unitary product group . The theory is commonly viewed as containing the fundamental set of particles – the leptons, quarks, gauge bosons and the Higgs particle.\n\nThe Standard Model is renormalizable and mathematically self-consistent, however despite having huge and continued successes in providing experimental predictions it does leave some unexplained phenomena. In particular, although the physics of special relativity is incorporated, general relativity is not, and the Standard Model will fail at energies or distances where the graviton is expected to emerge. Therefore, in a modern field theory context, it is seen as an effective field theory.\n\nThis article requires some background in physics and mathematics, but is designed as both an introduction and a reference.\n\nThe standard model is a quantum field theory, meaning its fundamental objects are \"quantum fields\" which are defined at all points in spacetime. These fields are\nThat these are \"quantum\" rather than \"classical\" fields has the mathematical consequence that they are operator-valued. In particular, values of the fields generally do not commute. As operators, they act upon the quantum state (ket vector).\n\nThe dynamics of the quantum state and the fundamental fields are determined by the Lagrangian density formula_2 (usually for short just called the Lagrangian). This plays a role similar to that of the Schrödinger equation in non-relativistic quantum mechanics, but a Lagrangian is not an equation of motion – rather, it is a polynomial function of the fields and their derivatives, and used with the principle of least action. While it would be possible to derive a system of differential equations governing the fields from the Lagrangian, it is more common to use other techniques to compute with quantum field theories.\n\nThe standard model is furthermore a gauge theory, which means there are degrees of freedom in the mathematical formalism which do not correspond to changes in the physical state. The gauge group of the standard model is , where U(1) acts on and , acts on and , and SU(3) acts on . The fermion field also transforms under these symmetries, although all of them leave some parts of it unchanged.\n\nIn classical mechanics, the state of a system can usually be captured by a small set of variables, and the dynamics of the system is thus determined by the time evolution of these variables. In classical field theory, the \"field\" is part of the state of the system, so in order to describe it completely one effectively introduces separate variables for every point in spacetime (even though there are many restrictions on how the values of the field \"variables\" may vary from point to point, for example in the form of field equations involving partial derivatives of the fields).\n\nIn quantum mechanics, the classical variables are turned into operators, but these do not capture the state of the system, which is instead encoded into a wavefunction or more abstract ket vector. If is an eigenstate with respect to an operator , then for the corresponding eigenvalue , and hence letting an operator act on is analogous to multiplying by the value of the classical variable to which corresponds. By extension, a classical formula where all variables have been replaced by the corresponding operators will behave like an operator which, when it acts upon the state of the system, multiplies it by the analogue of the quantity that the classical formula would compute. The formula as such does however not contain any information about the state of the system; it would evaluate to the same operator regardless of what state the system is in.\n\nQuantum fields relate to quantum mechanics as classical fields do to classical mechanics, i.e., there is a separate operator for every point in spacetime, and these operators do not carry any information about the state of the system; they are merely used to exhibit some aspect of the state, at the point to which they belong. In particular, the quantum fields are \"not\" wavefunctions, even though the equations which govern their time evolution may be deceptively similar to those of the corresponding wavefunction in a semiclassical formulation. There is no variation in strength of the fields between different points in spacetime; the variation that happens is rather one of phase factors.\n\nMathematically it may look as though all of the fields are vector-valued (in addition to being operator-valued), since they all have several components, can be multiplied by matrices, etc., but physicists assign a more specific physical meaning to the word: a vector is something which transforms like a four-vector under Lorentz transformations, and a scalar is something which is invariant under Lorentz transformations. The , and fields are all vectors in this sense, so the corresponding particles are said to be vector bosons. The Higgs field is a scalar.\n\nThe fermion field does transform under Lorentz transformations, but not like a vector should; rotations will only turn it by half the angle a proper vector should. Therefore, these constitute a third kind of quantity, which is known as a spinor.\n\nIt is common to make use of abstract index notation for the vector fields, in which case the vector fields all come with a Lorentzian index , like so: formula_3, and formula_4. If abstract index notation is used also for spinors then these will carry a spinorial index and the Dirac gamma will carry one Lorentzian and two spinorian indices, but it is more common to regard spinors as column matrices and the Dirac gamma as a matrix which additionally carries a Lorentzian index. The Feynman slash notation can be used to turn a vector field into a linear operator on spinors, like so: formula_5; this may involve raising and lowering indices.\n\nAs is common in quantum theory, there is more than one way to look at things. At first the basic fields given above may not seem to correspond well with the \"fundamental particles\" in the chart above, but there are several alternative presentations which, in particular contexts, may be more appropriate than those that are given above.\n\nRather than having one fermion field , it can be split up into separate components for each type of particle. This mirrors the historical evolution of quantum field theory, since the electron component (describing the electron and its antiparticle the positron) is then the original field of quantum electrodynamics, which was later accompanied by and fields for the muon and tauon respectively (and their antiparticles). Electroweak theory added formula_6, and formula_7 for the corresponding neutrinos, and the quarks add still further components. In order to be four-spinors like the electron and other lepton components, there must be one quark component for every combination of flavour and colour, bringing the total to 24 (3 for charged leptons, 3 for neutrinos, and 2·3·3 = 18 for quarks). Each of these is a four component bispinor, for a total of 96 complex-valued components for the fermion field.\n\nAn important definition is the barred fermion field formula_8, which is defined to be formula_9, where formula_10 denotes the Hermitian adjoint and is the zeroth gamma matrix. If is thought of as an matrix then formula_8 should be thought of as a matrix.\n\nAn independent decomposition of is that into chirality components:\nwhere formula_14 is the fifth gamma matrix. This is very important in the Standard Model because \"left and right chirality components are treated differently by the gauge interactions\".\n\nIn particular, under weak isospin SU(2) transformations the left-handed particles are weak-isospin doublets, whereas the right-handed are singlets – i.e. the weak isospin of is zero. Put more simply, the weak interaction could rotate e.g. a left-handed electron into a left-handed neutrino (with emission of a ), but could not do so with the same right-handed particles. As an aside, the right-handed neutrino originally did not exist in the standard model – but the discovery of neutrino oscillation implies that neutrinos must have mass, and since chirality can change during the propagation of a massive particle, right-handed neutrinos must exist in reality. This does not however change the (experimentally-proven) chiral nature of the weak interaction.\n\nFurthermore, acts differently on formula_15 and formula_16 (because they have different weak hypercharges).\n\nA distinction can thus be made between, for example, the mass and interaction eigenstates of the neutrino. The former is the state which propagates in free space, whereas the latter is the \"different\" state that participates in interactions. Which is the \"fundamental\" particle? For the neutrino, it is conventional to define the \"flavour\" (, , or ) by the interaction eigenstate, whereas for the quarks we define the flavour (up, down, etc.) by the mass state. We can switch between these states using the CKM matrix for the quarks, or the PMNS matrix for the neutrinos (the charged leptons on the other hand are eigenstates of both mass and flavour).\n\nAs an aside, if a complex phase term exists within either of these matrices, it will give rise to direct CP violation, which could explain the dominance of matter over antimatter in our current universe. This has been proven for the CKM matrix, and is expected for the PMNS matrix.\n\nFinally, the quantum fields are sometimes decomposed into \"positive\" and \"negative\" energy parts: . This is not so common when a quantum field theory has been set up, but often features prominently in the process of quantizing a field theory.\n\nDue to the Higgs mechanism, the electroweak boson fields formula_1, and formula_18 \"mix\" to create the states which are physically observable. To retain gauge invariance, the underlying fields must be massless, but the observable states can \"gain masses\" in the process. These states are:\n\nThe massive neutral (Z) boson:\nThe massless neutral boson:\nThe massive charged W bosons:\nwhere is the Weinberg angle.\n\nThe field is the photon, which corresponds classically to the well-known electromagnetic four-potential – i.e. the electric and magnetic fields. The field actually contributes in every process the photon does, but due to its large mass, the contribution is usually negligible.\n\nMuch of the qualitative descriptions of the standard model in terms of \"particles\" and \"forces\" comes from the perturbative quantum field theory view of the model. In this, the Lagrangian is decomposed as formula_22 into separate \"free field\" and \"interaction\" Lagrangians. The free fields care for particles in isolation, whereas processes involving several particles arise through interactions. The idea is that the state vector should only change when particles interact, meaning a free particle is one whose quantum state is constant. This corresponds to the interaction picture in quantum mechanics.\n\nIn the more common Schrödinger picture, even the states of free particles change over time: typically the phase changes at a rate which depends on their energy. In the alternative Heisenberg picture, state vectors are kept constant, at the price of having the operators (in particular the observables) be time-dependent. The interaction picture constitutes an intermediate between the two, where some time dependence is placed in the operators (the quantum fields) and some in the state vector. In QFT, the former is called the free field part of the model, and the latter is called the interaction part. The free field model can be solved exactly, and then the solutions to the full model can be expressed as perturbations of the free field solutions, for example using the Dyson series.\n\nIt should be observed that the decomposition into free fields and interactions is in principle arbitrary. For example, renormalization in QED modifies the mass of the free field electron to match that of a physical electron (with an electromagnetic field), and will in doing so add a term to the free field Lagrangian which must be cancelled by a counterterm in the interaction Lagrangian, that then shows up as a two-line vertex in the Feynman diagrams. This is also how the Higgs field is thought to give particles mass: the part of the interaction term which corresponds to the (nonzero) vacuum expectation value of the Higgs field is moved from the interaction to the free field Lagrangian, where it looks just like a mass term having nothing to do with Higgs.\n\nUnder the usual free/interaction decomposition, which is suitable for low energies, the free fields obey the following equations:\nThese equations can be solved exactly. One usually does so by considering first solutions that are periodic with some period along each spatial axis; later taking the limit: will lift this periodicity restriction.\n\nIn the periodic case, the solution for a field (any of the above) can be expressed as a Fourier series of the form\nwhere:\nIn the limit , the sum would turn into an integral with help from the hidden inside . The numeric value of also depends on the normalization chosen for formula_37 and formula_38.\n\nTechnically, formula_39 is the Hermitian adjoint of the operator in the inner product space of ket vectors. The identification of formula_39 and as creation and annihilation operators comes from comparing conserved quantities for a state before and after one of these have acted upon it. formula_39 can for example be seen to add one particle, because it will add to the eigenvalue of the a-particle number operator, and the momentum of that particle ought to be since the eigenvalue of the vector-valued momentum operator increases by that much. For these derivations, one starts out with expressions for the operators in terms of the quantum fields. That the operators with formula_10 are creation operators and the one without annihilation operators is a convention, imposed by the sign of the commutation relations postulated for them.\n\nAn important step in preparation for calculating in perturbative quantum field theory is to separate the \"operator\" factors and above from their corresponding vector or spinor factors and . The vertices of Feynman graphs come from the way that and from different factors in the interaction Lagrangian fit together, whereas the edges come from the way that the s and s must be moved around in order to put terms in the Dyson series on normal form.\n\nThe Lagrangian can also be derived without using creation and annihilation operators (the \"canonical\" formalism), by using a \"path integral\" approach, pioneered by Feynman building on the earlier work of Dirac. See e.g. Path integral formulation on Wikipedia or A. Zee's QFT in a nutshell. This is one possible way that the Feynman diagrams, which are pictorial representations of interaction terms, can be derived relatively easily. A quick derivation is indeed presented at the article on Feynman diagrams.\n\nWe can now give some more detail about the aforementioned free and interaction terms appearing in the Standard Model Lagrangian density. Any such term must be both gauge and reference-frame invariant, otherwise the laws of physics would depend on an arbitrary choice or the frame of an observer. Therefore, the global Poincaré symmetry, consisting of translational symmetry, rotational symmetry and the inertial reference frame invariance central to the theory of special relativity must apply. The local gauge symmetry is the internal symmetry. The three factors of the gauge symmetry together give rise to the three fundamental interactions, after some appropriate relations have been defined, as we shall see.\n\nA complete formulation of the Standard Model Lagrangian with all the terms written together can be found e.g. here.\n\nA free particle can be represented by a mass term, and a \"kinetic\" term which relates to the \"motion\" of the fields.\n\nThe kinetic term for a Dirac fermion is\n\nwhere the notations are carried from earlier in the article. can represent any, or all, Dirac fermions in the standard model. Generally, as below, this term is included within the couplings (creating an overall \"dynamical\" term).\n\nFor the spin-1 fields, first define the field strength tensor\n\nfor a given gauge field (here we use ), with gauge coupling constant . The quantity is the structure constant of the particular gauge group, defined by the commutator\n\nwhere are the generators of the group. In an Abelian (commutative) group (such as the we use here), since the generators all commute with each other, the structure constants vanish. Of course, this is not the case in general – the standard model includes the non-Abelian and groups (such groups lead to what is called a Yang–Mills gauge theory).\n\nWe need to introduce three gauge fields corresponding to each of the subgroups .\n\nThe kinetic term can now be written simply as\n\nwhere the traces are over the and indices hidden in and respectively. The two-index objects are the field strengths derived from and the vector fields. There are also two extra hidden parameters: the theta angles for and .\n\nThe next step is to \"couple\" the gauge fields to the fermions, allowing for interactions.\n\nThe electroweak sector interacts with the symmetry group , where the subscript L indicates coupling only to left-handed fermions.\n\nWhere is the gauge field; is the weak hypercharge (the generator of the group); is the three-component gauge field; and the components of are the Pauli matrices (infinitesimal generators of the group) whose eigenvalues give the weak isospin. Note that we have to redefine a new symmetry of \"weak hypercharge\", different from QED, in order to achieve the unification with the weak force. The electric charge , third component of weak isospin (also called or ) and weak hypercharge are related by\n(or by the \"alternative convention\" ). The first convention, used in this article, is equivalent to the earlier Gell-Mann–Nishijima formula. It makes the hypercharge be twice the average charge of a given isomultiplet.\n\nOne may then define the conserved current for weak isospin as\nand for weak hypercharge as\nwhere formula_54 is the electric current and formula_55 the third weak isospin current. As explained above, \"these currents mix\" to create the physically observed bosons, which also leads to testable relations between the coupling constants.\n\nTo explain this in a simpler way, we can see the effect of the electroweak interaction by picking out terms from the Lagrangian. We see that the SU(2) symmetry acts on each (left-handed) fermion doublet contained in , for example\nwhere the particles are understood to be left-handed, and where\n\nThis is an interaction corresponding to a \"rotation in weak isospin space\" or in other words, a \"transformation between and via emission of a\" \"boson\". The symmetry, on the other hand, is similar to electromagnetism, but acts on all \"\"weak hypercharged\"\" fermions (both left- and right-handed) via the neutral , as well as the \"charged\" fermions via the photon.\n\nThe quantum chromodynamics (QCD) sector defines the interactions between quarks and gluons, with symmetry, generated by . Since leptons do not interact with gluons, they are not affected by this sector. The Dirac Lagrangian of the quarks coupled to the gluon fields is given by\n\nwhere and are the Dirac spinors associated with up- and down-type quarks, and other notations are continued from the previous section.\n\nThe mass term arising from the Dirac Lagrangian (for any fermion ) is formula_59 which is \"not\" invariant under the electroweak symmetry. This can be seen by writing in terms of left- and right-handed components (skipping the actual calculation):\n\ni.e. contribution from formula_61 and formula_62 terms do not appear. We see that the mass-generating interaction is achieved by constant flipping of particle chirality. The spin-half particles have no right/left chirality pair with the same representations and equal and opposite weak hypercharges, so assuming these gauge charges are conserved in the vacuum, none of the spin-half particles could ever swap chirality, and must remain massless. Additionally, we know experimentally that the W and Z bosons are massive, but a boson mass term contains the combination e.g. , which clearly depends on the choice of gauge. Therefore, none of the standard model fermions \"or\" bosons can \"begin\" with mass, but must acquire it by some other mechanism.\n\nThe solution to both these problems comes from the Higgs mechanism, which involves scalar fields (the number of which depend on the exact form of Higgs mechanism) which (to give the briefest possible description) are \"absorbed\" by the massive bosons as degrees of freedom, and which couple to the fermions via Yukawa coupling to create what looks like mass terms.\n\nIn the Standard Model, the Higgs field is a complex scalar of the group :\n\nwhere the superscripts and indicate the electric charge () of the components. The weak hypercharge () of both components is .\n\nThe Higgs part of the Lagrangian is\n\nwhere and , so that the mechanism of spontaneous symmetry breaking can be used. There is a parameter here, at first hidden within the shape of the potential, that is very important. In a unitarity gauge one can set formula_65 and make formula_66 real. Then formula_67 is the non-vanishing vacuum expectation value of the Higgs field. formula_68 has units of mass, and it is the only parameter in the Standard Model which is not dimensionless. It is also much smaller than the Planck scale; it is approximately equal to the Higgs mass, and sets the scale for the mass of everything else. This is the only real fine-tuning to a small nonzero value in the Standard Model, and it is called the Hierarchy problem. Quadratic terms in and arise, which give masses to the W and Z bosons:\n\nThe mass of the Higgs boson itself is given by\nformula_70\n\nThe Yukawa interaction terms are\n\nwhere are matrices of Yukawa couplings, with the term giving the coupling of the generations and .\n\nAs previously mentioned, evidence shows neutrinos must have mass. But within the standard model, the right-handed neutrino does not exist, so even with a Yukawa coupling neutrinos remain massless. An obvious solution is to simply \"add a right-handed neutrino\" resulting in a Dirac mass term as usual. This field however must be a sterile neutrino, since being right-handed it experimentally belongs to an isospin singlet () and also has charge , implying (see above) i.e. it does not even participate in the weak interaction. The experimental evidence for sterile neutrinos is currently inconclusive.\n\nAnother possibility to consider is that the neutrino satisfies the Majorana equation, which at first seems possible due to its zero electric charge. In this case the mass term is\n\nwhere denotes a charge conjugated (i.e. anti-) particle, and the terms are consistently all left (or all right) chirality (note that a left-chirality projection of an antiparticle is a right-handed field; care must be taken here due to different notations sometimes used). Here we are essentially flipping between left-handed neutrinos and right-handed anti-neutrinos (it is furthermore possible but \"not\" necessary that neutrinos are their own antiparticle, so these particles are the same). However, for left-chirality neutrinos, this term changes weak hypercharge by 2 units – not possible with the standard Higgs interaction, requiring the Higgs field to be extended to include an extra triplet with weak hypercharge = 2 – whereas for right-chirality neutrinos, no Higgs extensions are necessary. For both left and right chirality cases, Majorana terms violate lepton number, but possibly at a level beyond the current sensitivity of experiments to detect such violations.\n\nIt is possible to include both Dirac and Majorana mass terms in the same theory, which (in contrast to the Dirac-mass-only approach) can provide a “natural” explanation for the smallness of the observed neutrino masses, by linking the right-handed neutrinos to yet-unknown physics around the GUT scale (see seesaw mechanism).\n\nSince in any case new fields must be postulated to explain the experimental results, neutrinos are an obvious gateway to searching physics beyond the Standard Model.\n\nThis section provides more detail on some aspects, and some reference material. Explicit Lagrangian terms are also provided here.\n\nThe Standard Model has the following fields. These describe one \"generation\" of leptons and quarks, and there are three generations, so there are three copies of each fermionic field. By CPT symmetry, there is a set of right-handed fermions with the opposite quantum numbers. The column \"representation\" indicates under which representations of the gauge groups that each field transforms, in the order (SU(3), SU(2), U(1)). Symbols used are common but not universal; superscript C denotes an antiparticle; and for the U(1) group, the value of the weak hypercharge is listed. Note that there are twice as many left-handed lepton field components as left-handed antilepton field components in each generation, but an equal number of left-handed quark and antiquark fields.\n\nThis table is based in part on data gathered by the Particle Data Group.\n\nUpon writing the most general Lagrangian with massless neutrinos, one finds that the dynamics depend on 19 parameters, whose numerical values are established by experiment. Straightforward extensions of Standard Model with massive neutrinos need 7 more parameters, 3 masses and 4 PMNS matrix parameters, for a total of 26 parameters. The neutrino parameter values are still uncertain. The 19 certain parameters are summarized here.\n\nThe choice of free parameters is somewhat arbitrary. In the table above, gauge couplings are listed as free parameters, therefore with this choice Weinberg angle is not a free parameter - it is defined as formula_73. Likewise, fine structure constant of QED is formula_74.\n\nInstead of fermion masses, dimensionless Yukawa couplings can be chosen as free parameters. For example, electron mass depends on the Yukawa coupling of electron to Higgs field, and its value is formula_75.\n\nInstead of the Higgs mass, the Higgs self-coupling strength formula_76, which is approximately 0.129, can be chosen as a free parameter.\n\nInstead of the Higgs vacuum expectation value, formula_77 parameter directly from Higgs self-interaction term formula_78 can be chosen. Its value is formula_79, or approximately formula_80 GeV.\n\nFrom the theoretical point of view, the Standard Model exhibits four additional global symmetries, not postulated at the outset of its construction, collectively denoted accidental symmetries, which are continuous U(1) global symmetries. The transformations leaving the Lagrangian invariant are:\n\nThe first transformation rule is shorthand meaning that all quark fields for all generations must be rotated by an identical phase simultaneously. The fields and formula_85 are the 2nd (muon) and 3rd (tau) generation analogs of and formula_86 fields.\n\nBy Noether's theorem, each symmetry above has an associated conservation law: the conservation of baryon number, electron number, muon number, and tau number. Each quark is assigned a baryon number of formula_87, while each antiquark is assigned a baryon number of formula_88. Conservation of baryon number implies that the number of quarks minus the number of antiquarks is a constant. Within experimental limits, no violation of this conservation law has been found.\n\nSimilarly, each electron and its associated neutrino is assigned an electron number of +1, while the anti-electron and the associated anti-neutrino carry a −1 electron number. Similarly, the muons and their neutrinos are assigned a muon number of +1 and the tau leptons are assigned a tau lepton number of +1. The Standard Model predicts that each of these three numbers should be conserved separately in a manner similar to the way baryon number is conserved. These numbers are collectively known as lepton family numbers (LF). (This result depends on the assumption made in Standard Model that neutrinos are massless. Experimentally, neutrino oscillations demonstrate that individual electron, muon and tau numbers are not conserved.)\n\nIn addition to the accidental (but exact) symmetries described above, the Standard Model exhibits several approximate symmetries. These are the \"SU(2) custodial symmetry\" and the \"SU(2) or SU(3) quark flavor symmetry.\"\n\nFor the leptons, the gauge group can be written . The two U(1) factors can be combined into where l is the lepton number. Gauging of the lepton number is ruled out by experiment, leaving only the possible gauge group . A similar argument in the quark sector also gives the same result for the electroweak theory.\n\nThe charged currents formula_89 are\nThese charged currents are precisely those that entered the Fermi theory of beta decay. The action contains the charge current piece\nFor energy much less than the mass of the W-boson, the effective theory becomes the current–current contact interaction of the Fermi theory, formula_92.\nHowever, gauge invariance now requires that the component formula_93 of the gauge field also be coupled to a current that lies in the triplet of SU(2). However, this mixes with the U(1), and another current in that sector is needed. These currents must be uncharged in order to conserve charge. So neutral currents are also required, \nThe neutral current piece in the Lagrangian is then\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2024807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024807", "title": "Barney Stanley", "text": "Barney Stanley\n\nRussell \"Barney\" Stanley (January 1, 1893 – May 16, 1971) was a Canadian professional ice hockey forward who played for the Vancouver Millionaires of the Pacific Coast Hockey Association (PCHA) and the Calgary Tigers, Regina Capitals and Edmonton Eskimos of the Western Canada Hockey League (WCHL). He was the second head coach of the Chicago Black Hawks of the National Hockey League (NHL), appearing as a player in one game for the team. He won the Stanley Cup with the Millionaires in 1915 and was inducted into the Hockey Hall of Fame in 1963.\n\nStanley was born in Paisley, Ontario, the son of a dairy farmer. He moved west to Medicine Hat, Alberta at 17 to play hockey before settling in Edmonton. He joined the Edmonton Maritimers in 1911–12, then spent the next three seasons as both a player and coach for the Edmonton Dominions and Albertas, all of the Alberta Senior Hockey League. Stanley turned professional in 1915, joining the Vancouver Millionaires of the PCHA. Stanley scored seven goals in his first five regular season contests with Vancouver, of which his first professional goal, in his first game, was assisted by Cyclone Taylor. He won the Stanley Cup with the Millionaires in 1915 as they defeated the Ottawa Senators of the National Hockey League for the Canadian championship. Stanley scored four goals in the third and deciding game of the series.\n\nStanley was a Second Team All-Star with the Millionaires in 1918 and remained with the team until the end of the 1919–20 season. He then fought to regain his amateur status so that he could take on the role of player-coach with the Edmonton Eskimos of Alberta's Big-4 League. He left the Eskimos after one year to join the Calgary Tigers and in 1921 once again turned professional as the Tigers joined the newly formed Western Canada Hockey League. He scored 26 goals in 24 games for the Tigers in 1921–22 and was named a league all-star on right wing. His rights were sold to the Regina Capitals following the season where served as player-coach and was again named all-star right wing. After two seasons in Regina, he returned to the Eskimos for two more. As player-coach for the Eskimos, Stanley led the team to the top record in the league in 1925–26.\n\nFollowing the collapse of the WCHL in 1926, Stanley purchased the Eskimos and brought them into the newly formed Prairie Hockey League. Before the season began, however, he sold the team and joined the Winnipeg Maroons. He purchased an ownership stake in the franchise, and signed on as a defenceman and coach for the American Hockey Association team.\n\nHe was hired by the Chicago Black Hawks to be their manager and head coach for the 1927–28 NHL season. Stanley managed the club for only 23 games as the team replaced him following a 4–17–2 start to the season, but not before appearing in one regular season contest as a player with the team. Stanley returned to the AHA, playing his final season of hockey with the Minneapolis Millers before retiring in 1929. He was inducted into the Hockey Hall of Fame in 1962.\n\nStanley and his wife Muriel Frances (née Sparling) had four children: son Don and daughters Isobel, Dorothy and Frances. Following the death in 1951 of his first wife, Stanley married Margaret (Greta) Muir. He had three brothers and a sister. His son was also a hockey player and was a member of Canada's 1950 world championship team while his nephew Allan Stanley is also a member of the Hockey Hall of Fame.\n\nFollowing his arrival in Edmonton, Stanley became involved in the dairy industry. He first joined the Edmonton City Dairy in 1913, and remained with the firm for 11 years while he remained an active hockey player. He purchased a share in a dairy farm in 1924, and joined the Northern Alberta Dairy Pool as an assistant manager in 1929 following the conclusion of his playing career. In 1944 he became the general manager of the pool. He held the position until his retirement in 1961.\n\nRemaining active in hockey, Stanley coached the Edmonton Poolers junior team between 1929 and 1931. He was a member of the hockey committee of the Edmonton Exhibition Association when the Flyers won the Allan Cup national senior championship in 1948. Stanley also designed one of the sport's first hockey helmets, presented to the NHL's board of governors without interest after Chicago's Dick Irvin suffered a fractured skull during a game. A proponent of youth involvement in sport, Stanley served two years as president of Edmonton's junior baseball league, and was also president of the Edmonton and District Hockey Association into the 1940s.\n\n"}
{"id": "2024810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024810", "title": "Inguinal ligament", "text": "Inguinal ligament\n\nThe inguinal ligament (), also known as Poupart's ligament or groin ligament, is a band running from the pubic tubercle to the anterior superior iliac spine. It forms the base of the inguinal canal through which an indirect inguinal hernia may develop.\n\nThe inguinal (crural) ligament runs from the anterior superior iliac crest of the ilium to the pubic tubercle of the pubic bone. It is formed by the external abdominal oblique aponeurosis and is continuous with the fascia lata of the thigh.\n\nThere is some dispute over the attachments.\n\nStructures that pass deep to the inguinal ligament include:\n\nThe ligament serves to contain soft tissues as they course anteriorly from the trunk to the lower extremity. This structure demarcates the superior border of the femoral triangle. It demarcates the inferior border of the inguinal triangle.\n\nThe midpoint of the inguinal ligament, halfway between the anterior superior iliac spine and pubic tubercle, is the landmark for the femoral nerve.\nThe mid-inguinal point, halfway between the anterior superior iliac spine and the pubic symphysis, is the landmark for the femoral artery.\nThe external iliac arteries pass the inguinal ligament posteriorly and inferiorly.\nIt is also referred to as Poupart's ligament, because François Poupart gave it relevance in relation to hernial repair, calling it \"the suspender of the abdomen\" (). It is sometimes termed the Fallopian ligament. Colles' ligament is the reflex ligament and not the inguinal ligament.\n\n\n"}
