{"id": "2006829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2006829", "title": "Ken Duncan (photographer)", "text": "Ken Duncan (photographer)\n\nKenneth McLeod Duncan (born 20 December 1954) OAM is a photographer from Wamberal, New South Wales, Australia. He is regarded as one of Australia's most acclaimed landscape photographers, and gained prominence for his pioneering work with panoramic landscapes and limited edition photographic prints.\n\nKen Duncan was born in Mildura, Victoria, on Australia's Murray River, and lived most of his early life in country towns. He became interested in photography in his early teens. After leaving school, he eventually became senior technical representative for Australia's leading photographic supply house. His particular interest with panoramic shots began when the company imported the Widelux camera, which had the ability to produce panoramic shots of his favorite landscapes. In 1981, at the age of 26, he moved to Sydney.\n\nIn 1982, he left Sydney to travel around Australia and to photograph its famed landscapes. In five years he produced more than 80,000 images.\n\nAlthough the panoramic format is considered his most popular, Ken Duncan has also used many other different formats and media. He has produced several books and has been awarded for his work. His first major publication was a pictorial book called \"The Last Frontier — Australia Wide\" published in 1987 by Weldon publishers. More than 65,000 copies have been sold.\n\nIn the late 1990s, he produced a book called \"America Wide\", which features landscapes of many U.S. states. It was completed a few days before the September 11 attacks in 2001. He published a sequel, \"Spirit of America\", in 2006. In 2003, Ken Duncan released \"3D Australia\" — popularizing 3D printing.\n\nOn Australia Day (26 January 2009), Ken was honoured nationally when he was awarded a Medal of the Order of Australia (OAM) by the Australian Government for his services to the arts as a landscape photographer and publisher, and for his service to the Central Coast community.\n\nKen Duncan is a Christian and a creationist. \n\n"}
{"id": "2006839", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2006839", "title": "Perodua Myvi", "text": "Perodua Myvi\n\nThe Perodua Myvi is a subcompact car/supermini (B-segment) produced by the Malaysian manufacturer Perodua since 2005. Based on the Daihatsu Boon (also branded as Daihatsu Sirion, Toyota Passo and Subaru Justy), the Myvi is the result of Perodua's collaboration with both Toyota and Daihatsu. However, the third generation Myvi was entirely designed and made in-house in Malaysia, not being based on the third generation Boon. The Myvi was the best-selling car in Malaysia for 8 consecutive years, between 2006 and 2013. As of February 2019, the Myvi reached nearly 1.1 million units sold since the launched of its first generation in 2005.\n\nThe Myvi was made available in five trim levels: 1.0SR (five-speed manual), 1.3SX (five-speed manual), 1.3EZ (four-speed auto), 1.3SXi (five-speed manual) and 1.3EZi \"Premium\" (four-speed auto). In addition, a Myvi \"Special Edition\" was made available, featuring a bodykit encompassing modified bumpers, sideskirts and a spoiler. The Myvi was also made available with dual airbags and ABS.\n\nColours available on the Myvi include Ebony Black, Olive Green, Glittering Silver, Ozzy Orange, Classic Gold, Mistik Red, Mocha Silver, Ivory White and Pearl White. Meanwhile the SE version include the colour selections of Mistik Red, Ebony Black and Ivory White only. The facelift features a new colour range which consist of Medallion Grey, Ivory White, Pearl White, Klasik Gold, Mistik Red, Ebony Black, Caribbean Blue and Glittering Silver. The Perodua Myvi SE is available in Ivory White, Ebony Black, Glittering Silver, Pearl White or a special Tangerine Orange exclusive only for the Myvi SE.\n\nThe Myvi boasts either one of two water-cooled, four-stroke engines derived from the first generation Daihatsu Sirion: A 1.0-litre EJ-VE engine with three in-line cylinders, or the Toyota Passo: 1.3-litre K3-VE engine with inline-four cylinders; both engines employ Dynamic Variable Valve Timing (DVVT) systems and conventional electronic fuel injection (EFI). Both engines are locally built at Perodua's Serendah plant.\n\nIn addition to raw performance, features previously uncommon on Perodua cars were inherited from the Sirion to the Myvi. Among them are four-hole injectors, foamed urethane injected to the A-pillar, centre pillar and B-pillar for noise insulation, immobiliser systems and pedestrian injury reduction body construction. Other notable features include underbody air flow regulating items, resin intake manifolds and cylinder headcovers integrated with air cleaner cases and flexible flywheels for reduced vibration during running (for manual transmission).\n\nOn August 22, 2008, an updated Perodua Myvi was launched. The new Myvi features a modified front grille, front bumper, front bonnet, rear bumper, alloy rims, dashboard color, instrument panel design, MP3/WMA player and seat fabric. Its 1.3 Premium trim additionally features new UV protection glass, a seat height adjuster, as well as a new audio system with USB and Bluetooth capabilities.\n\nA \"Special Edition\" of the new Perodua Myvi SE was also launched on October 10, 2008 with a new bumpers, clear taillights, smoked headlights, an amber instrument panel, leather seats, and a 2-DIN Compact Disc player with MP3, WMA, USB and Bluetooth support instead of an integrated unit. It is only available with a 1.3L engine with a manual or automatic transmission.\n\nAn \"Exclusive Edition\" of the Perodua Myvi was also launched on October 2009. It is very similar to the SE variant but with side skirt only, the front and rear bumpers remain the same design as the standard Myvis. Only three colours are available – Ebony Black, Ivory White and Medallion Grey. It’s priced at RM51,000 for solid colours and RM51,500 for metallic colours.\n\nA \"Limited Edition\" of the Perodua Myvi was also launched on July 2010. It had a special color called dazzling red. It is based on the 1.3 standard automatic variant. The LE has new trim colour and fabric, door inner handles, an “LE” carpet mat, and decorative cubic printing on both the centre cluster and the door trim armrests. There’s also dual airbags for the people at the front. The radio has USB and Bluetooth connectivity. On the outside, Perodua has fitted the Myvi LE with smoked clear rear combination lamps (straight from the Myvi SE), “LE” badging and side door moldings.\n\nThe launch of the Perodua Myvi was significant as it marked first time Perodua competed head-to-head with Proton, the first Malaysian national car maker, which would release a similarly classed Proton Savvy.\n\nThe Myvi 1.3 beat its rival, the Proton Savvy 1.2, as the \"Car of the Year 2005/2006\" by \"Autocar ASEAN\", a magazine for car buyers in Malaysia. \"The Edge Daily\", a local financial news media reported that Myvi sales have far surpassed its initial expectations and has been selling extremely well since its rollout in April.\n\nProton's Savvy, available to the market a few months after the launch of the Myvi, had not affected Myvi sales. Observing the strong demand for the Myvi, it boosted sales of vehicles in the country and Perodua's market share in 2006.\n\nRichard Hammond, a presenter on BBC's \"Top Gear\", gave a positive review of the Perodua Myvi, saying:\n\"No jokes, this is a good-looking car. But if it looks familiar, that's because this is a Daihatsu Sirion in all but name. You see it costs billions to develop a new car – you design them on computers then build lots of them to crash into walls. So Perodua let someone else do it and spent their money sticking a new badge on it.\n\nBut they kept a bit back to spend on styling. Which is why, even though it shares bits and pieces with the Sirion, the Myvi is better looking...\n\n...So under seven grand for a good-looking car, built in a factory shared with Toyota, which handles as well as a Yaris, does nearly 50mpg with a three-year warranty – yes please.\"\"\nJeremy Clarkson's review was less positive, claiming the brakes, the ride, the seats and the interior were \"rubbish\". He also humorously suggested that \"this is a car you drive with a long face\".\n\nA 2009 study by J.D. Power & Associates saw the Myvi ranked highest for its initial quality in terms of new-vehicle ownership in the compact car segment.\n\nThe 2011 Perodua Myvi was launched on 16 June 2011 with a tagline of \"Lagi Best\" (contextually, \"Lagi\" means \"more\" in Malay) for 1.3 version and later for 1.5 version with tagline \"Lagi Power, Lagi Best\".\n\nIn April 2014, Perodua launched base Myvi XT model which replace the 1.3 standard. It added equipment at no extra cost.\n\nBoth 1.3-litre K3-VE and 1.5-litre 3SZ-VE engines are fitted with DVVT and EFI. Despite the fact that the 1.3-litre is a carry-over from the previous generation Myvi, Perodua reported an increase of 10 hp for the new model. The increase was attributed to the new electric power steering (EPS) system. Additionally, the 1.5-litre 3SZ-VE engine, which also powers the Perodua Alza, is imported from the Daihatsu engine plant in Karawang, Indonesia.\n\nDual SRS Airbags are standard across the range, the first of the national badged cars in Malaysia. The central rear seat belt is a 3-point ELR system, an upgrade over the 2-point belt in the previous generation. ISOFIX is standard across the range for standard installations of child seats. ABS and EBD is available in the 1.3L Premium, 1.3L Elegance and all 1.5L variants.\n\nThe 2011 Perodua Myvi is available with two engine options of 1.3L and 1.5L, it was separated by different design of bumper and grill. Both are available in a 4-speed automatic or a 5-speed manual gearbox. There are three trims for the 1.3L model – Standard (EZ & SX), Premium (EZI & SXI) and Elegance, and two trims for the 1.5L model – SE (Special Edition) and Extreme. Although the 2011 Myvi is a rebadged 2010 JDM Daihatsu Boon, it has different exterior and interior styling, equipment and engine. Also the CVT is not available, in contrast with the original model.\n\nProjector headlamp, Electronic Power Steering and dual airbags are standard across the range. The standard trim gets steel rims with caps, and other variants get alloy rims and Foglamps. The automatic transmission lever is now relocated to the dashboard area like the Perodua Alza. An integrated 2-DIN 6-inch touchscreen DVD Navigation system with Maps powered by Telekom Malaysia is available in the 1.3L Elegance and all 1.5L variants. The 1.3L Elegance and 1.5L Extreme trim levels also get chrome door handles and a different body kit.\n\n\nOn 7 January 2015, Perodua announced that bookings for the 2015 Perodua Myvi have been opened. The 2015 Myvi is the mid-life facelift model of the second generation Myvi. It has been revamped to suit Perodua's new design language and product branding. The 2015 Perodua Myvi was produced in six different colours, including two new colours, Electric Blue and Cosmic Gold, priced from RM41,500 to RM58,900, slightly less expensive than the pre-facelift Myvi which ranged from RM41,936 to RM61,740. The facelifted second generation Perodua Myvi debuted on 15 January 2015.\n\nThe 2015 Myvi was produced in six trim levels, in two engine and transmission options, namely the 1.3L Standard G manual and automatic, 1.3L Premium X automatic, 1.5L SE manual and automatic and 1.5L Advance automatic. The powertrain remains largely unchanged over the pre-facelift Myvi, with the four-cylinder 1.3L K3-VE and 1.5L 3SZ-VE engines developing 89 hp with 117 Nm, and 102 hp with 136 Nm respectively. The four-speed automatic and five-speed manual transmissions have also been carried over from the pre-facelift model.\n\nThe most significant changes in the facelifted Perodua Myvi would amount to the increased equipment and kit levels across the range. Despite that, projector headlamps and Bluetooth connectivity were no longer standard. The 1.3L and 1.5L models are differentiated with unique bumpers and alloy rims. The 1.3L Standard G model, the base model of the range, is fitted with a simple radio with CD-player head unit, while the more expensive 1.3L Premium X and 1.5L SE models add MP3/WMA, USB and Bluetooth functions. The range-topping 1.5L Advance variant is equipped with a multimedia system and navigation, as well as a reverse camera. Both 1.3L models are fitted with standard fabric seats, while the 1.5L SE sports fabric semi-bucket seats, which is leather-wrapped in the 1.5L Advance. Additionally, all models with the exception of the 1.3L Standard G feature front corner sensors. The 1.3L models are fitted with standard halogen headlamps, whereas the 1.5L variants feature projector headlamps with guide lights, a first for a B-segment Malaysian-made car. Other new additions include the well-received anti-snatch hook first seen in the Perodua Axia, as well as a retractable cup holder under the driver's right side air conditioning vent.\n\n\nPerodua claims that the 2015 Myvi has achieved a 4-star ASEAN NCAP rating thanks to added safety equipment. However, the Standard G base model still lacks an anti-lock braking system (ABS) with electronic brakeforce distribution (EBD) and brake assist (BA). The Premium X, SE and Advance models have ABS with EBD and BA, but the airbag count remains at a mere two, with only the driver and front passenger compartments being protected. Electronic stability control (ESC) or a traction control system (TCS) is still not offered. Despite Perodua's claims that the 2015 Myvi is 4-star ASEAN NCAP rated, it is likely that the rating only applies to the Premium X, SE and Advance models and not to the Standard G base model which lacks ABS with EBD and BA.\nA third generation of the Perodua Myvi had been rumored to come in the late 2017/early 2018. On 8 November 2017, Perodua announced that bookings for the 2018 Perodua Myvi have been opened. The third generation Perodua Myvi was unveiled on 9 November 2017 at the Malaysia Autoshow 2017. It was launched on 16 November 2017. This generation of Myvi was known to be locally made in-house, without rebadging from the third generation of Daihatsu Boon. Instead, the third generation Myvi was designed in-house by Perodua's own design and styling division led by Muhamad Zamuren Musa, who also designed the Perodua Bezza. It is a totally brand new car in which Toyota and Daihatsu only provide advice and engines to Perodua in generating the new Myvi. The engines provided were improvised by Perodua for the new Myvi in order to enhance fuel efficiency and in acquiring the EEV standards as the Axia and Bezza. The first time ever in Malaysian branded car to offer 'Advanced Safety Assist' in AV Variant. It is offered in four trim levels:\nAdvanced Safety Assist or (A.S.A.) including with :\n\n\nThe first generation Perodua Myvi was exported to Indonesia and badged as the Daihatsu Sirion since April 2007. The Sirion in Indonesia does not use the global Sirion styling by Daihatsu, but uses Perodua's styling including the interiors, bumpers and lamps. It is only available in the 1.3L version with two trim levels. The D trim offers basic specification, while the M trim offers \"Aerokits\" and leather seats.\n\nThe second generation Perodua Myvi was also rebadged as the Daihatsu Sirion for the Indonesian market. It was launched on 23 July 2011 at the 2011 Indonesia International Motor Show. Like the previous generation Sirion, the new Sirion is also imported as a CBU model from Perodua's factory in Rawang, Malaysia. The second generation Sirion sold in Indonesia is based on the Perodua Myvi in its mid-range Premium trim level. Apart from the different badges, steering wheel and the lack of airbags and ABS, the second generation Sirion is largely identical to the Myvi Premium. At launch, the new Daihatsu Sirion 5-speed manual and 4-speed automatic costed between 139,500,000 and 150,500,000 rupiah (RM48,715 and RM52,556) respectively.\n\nIn February 2015, the second generation Myvi facelift was launched in Indonesia. Available with either manual or automatic transmission, the Sirion that was sold in Indonesia was mainly based on the 1.5 SE trim sold in Malaysia but instead of having a 1.5-litre engine, the Indonesia market Sirion used a 1.3-litre engine. Other notable difference from the Malaysian 1.5 SE trim included the instrument cluster from the Malaysian market 1.3 Premium X and a headunit system that was not used in any Myvi's bound for the Malaysian market. \n\nThe third generation Perodua Myvi was also rebadged as the Daihatsu Sirion for the Indonesian market. It was launched on 13 February 2018.\n\nPT Astra Daihatsu Motor sold 1,030 units of the Sirion in 2010, followed by 2,857, 6,663 and 2,374 units in 2011, 2012 and 2013 respectively.\n\nIn Brunei, to replace the 2005-09 Japanese-made first generation Daihatsu Sirion (sold under the Daihatsu badge), since April 2016, GHK Motors Sdn Bhd sells the facelifted second generation Myvi in 1.5 SE trim only. The car was featured with either 4-speed automatic or 5-speed manual transmission.\n\nIn Singapore, Perocom Auto has been the sole authorised Perodua distributor since 1997. Since April 2019, the third generation Myvi trim levels: the 1.3X AT and 1.5H AT, are sold in the city-state. This also marks the model’s first export destination under the Perodua brand.\n\n"}
{"id": "2006843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2006843", "title": "Pitney Bowes", "text": "Pitney Bowes\n\nPitney Bowes is a technology company most known for its postage meters and other mailing equipment and services, and with expansions, into e-commerce, software, and other technologies. The company was founded by Arthur Pitney, who invented the first commercially available postage meter, and Walter Bowes as the Pitney Bowes Postage Meter Company on April 23, 1920.\n\nPitney Bowes provides customer engagement, customer information management, global e-commerce, location intelligence, and mailing and shipping services to approximately 1 million customers in about 100 countries around the world in 2016. The company is a certified \"work-share partner\" of the United States Postal Service, and helps the agency sort and process 15 billion pieces of mail annually. Pitney Bowes has also commissioned surveys related to international e-commerce.\n\nPitney Bowes is based in Stamford, Connecticut, and operates a 300,000-square-foot Global Technology Center for manufacturing and engineering in Danbury, Connecticut. The company has 33 operating centers throughout the United States, and additional offices in Hatfield (United Kingdom), New Delhi, and Tokyo. As of December 2016, Pitney Bowes employed approximately 14,000 people worldwide.\n\nIn 1902, Arthur Pitney patented his first \"double-locking\" hand-cranked postage-stamping machine, and, with patent attorney Eugene A. Rummler, founded the Pitney Postal Machine Company. In 1908, English emigrant and founder of the Universal Stamping Machine Company Walter Bowes began providing stamp-canceling machines to the United States Post Office Department. Bowes moved his operations to Stamford in 1917. These two companies merged to form the Pitney Bowes Postage Meter Company in 1920 with the invention of the first commercially available postage meter. The company created its first logo, which \"[symbolized] the security of the metered mail system\", in 1930. In 1950, Pitney Bowes initiated an advertising campaign in national publications with the message, \"Metered mail makes the mailer's life easier\". In 1971, the company introduced a new logo, which represented the \"intersection of paper-based and electronic communication\". Pitney Bowes was valued at around $18 billion in December 1998.\n\nIn April 2003, Pitney Bowes filed a lawsuit in Seattle's King County Superior Court against Mark Browne and Howard Gray, who founded the competing company Nexxpost in 2002, as well as six other former employees, for \"[engaging] in transgressions ranging from misappropriation of trade secrets to violating confidentiality agreements\". The two companies reached a settlement in August 2003.\n\nThe company reported a profit of $498.1 million in 2003. In 2005, Pitney Bowes' revenue and earnings increased by more than 11 percent, and the company employed 32,500 people. In 2006, the company had $5.7 billion in annual revenue, and more than 35,000 employees.\n\nIn 2008, in conjunction with other companies, Pitney Bowes donated two of its 3,400 patents to the Eco-Patent Commons, which is operated by the World Business Council for Sustainable Development, in an effort to reduce pollution. One of the patents increases the lifespan of electronic scales, reducing landfill waste, and the other is an inkjet printing technology that reduces ink use. In 2009, Pitney Bowes was named one of the world's largest software companies by \"Software Magazine\". The company earned $98.6 million during the last three months of 2009, compared to $74 million the year before; during the same time, revenue decreased by 6 percent, from $1.55 billion to $1.45 billion. In December 2009, Pitney Bowes opened its first customer innovation center in Shelton, Connecticut.\n\nThe company sold its I.M. Pei & Partners-designed headquarters in Stamford for nearly $40 million in 2013, and relocated to a new, smaller headquarters in the city. According to the \"Hartford Courant\", Pitney Bowes was eligible to receive as much as $27 million in subsidies over five years as part of the state's \"First Five\" program, for keeping 1,600 employees and adding 200 more. In 2014, the company announced plans for a rebrand. Pitney Bowes unveiled its new logo in January 2015, replacing one used since 1971; the rebranding campaign, which included an updated website and marketing, reportedly cost between $40 million and $80 million.\n\nIn February 2012, the credit rating for Pitney Bowes International Holdings was lowered by Fitch Ratings from BBB+ to BBB. The ratings agency said its main concern was \"the downward trajectory\" of Pitney Bowes' revenue, and added that they have a \"negative outlook.\" In March 2014, Moody's assigned a long-term rating of Baa2 to the company's proposed $350 million senior unsecured notes (due 2024) and reiterated their stable outlook on PBI. Moody's cited \"an improvement in the company's operating margin to around 19%, from about 15% historically, following the sale of its labor intensive management services business\" and \"an operational restructuring which could yield annual cost savings of up to $170 million by 2016.\" \n\nIn 2016, the company launched its first television advertising campaign in nearly twenty years; \"Craftsmen of Commerce\" cost $20 million and included three advertisements for national news and sports networks. Pitney Bowes announced a six-month startup accelerator program, \"Scale-Up\", in August 2016. Companies that participated in the program, which was a collaboration with NASSCOM's 10,000 Startups initiative, included: eCourierz, an online automated shipping tool; Infinite Analytics, a data analytics company; the digital health platform Medimojo; Niki, which uses artificial intelligence to make ordering processes simpler; Sponsifyme, a geolocation-integrated marketing platform, and Wedosky.\n\nThe company employed 15,700 people and earned $3.4 billion in revenue in 2016, which was a 5 percent decrease from 2015. Profits in 2015 totaled $408 million, but were reduced to $95 million in 2016. Pitney Bowes' executives said the declines were caused by \"the changeover to a new U.S. enterprise-business platform — a change that disrupted short-term business, but one they have said would significantly improve the company's long-term operations.\" In March 2017, Pitney Bowes left the S&P 500 Index, having been listed since the stock market index was established in 1957, and joined the S&P 400. \n\nIn 1995, Pitney Bowes sold Dictaphone Corp., which produced communication and dictation recording systems, to an affiliate of the investment group Stonington Partners Inc. for $450 million. Imagistics International was spun-off from Pitney Bowes' copier and fax business in 2001.\n\nSince 2001, Pitney Bowes has spent $1 billion on acquisitions. In 2001, Bell & Howell sold its international Mail and Messaging Technologies business to Pitney Bowes. Pitney Bowes also acquired Danka Services International (part of Danka Business Systems PLC) for $290 million in cash, and the French postage meter company Secap. In 2002, Pitney Bowes acquired the Omaha, Nebraska-based mail presorting company PSI Group for $130 million, followed by the Landover, Maryland-based DDD Company, which developed mail and messenger services, for $49.5 million in 2003.\n\nIn 2004, Pitney Bowes acquired the Lanham, Maryland-based company Group 1 Software, which develops mailing technology, for $380 million, as well as International Mail Express for $29 million. In February 2005, Pitney Bowes completed transactions in Brazil and India, expanding into both markets for the first time. In Brazil, the company partnered with Semco Participacoes to form Pitney Bowes Semco Equipamentos e Servicos, offering mailing equipment, production mail, and software services. Pitney Bowes acquired the mailing division of Kilburn Office Automation Limited, forming the New Delhi-based Pitney Bowes India. Pitney Bowes acquired the litigation support services provider Compulit Inc. one month later, creating Pitney Bowes Legal Solutions. Pitney Bowes purchased the marketing services company Imagitas in 2005 for $230 million in stock, which was sold to Red Ventures in 2015.\n\nThe company spun-off Capital Services in 2005 to New York private-equity group Cerberus Capital Management. Pitney Bowes acquired multiple companies in 2006, including Emtex and its output management software for $41 million, and the Providence, Rhode Island-based company Ibis Consulting, Inc., which provides electronic discovery services, for nearly $67 million. The company also acquired Advertising Audit Service, PMH Caramanning, and the Bellevue, Washington-based company Print Inc., which provides print management solutions. \n\nIn 2007, Pitney Bowes acquired MapInfo Corporation and its location intelligence solutions. The company moved out of MapInfo's building in North Greenbush, New York's Rensselaer Technology Park, and into other offices within the science park. Pitney Bowes also acquired the Toronto-based customer relationship management services company Digital Cement for nearly $40 million in cash.\n\nThe British software development company Portrait Software was acquired by Pitney Bowes in 2010 for nearly $64.8 million in cash. Pitney Bowes sold its management services division to Apollo Global Management in 2013 for $400 million. In May 2015, Pitney Bowes acquired the online shopping services provider Borderfree for about $395 million. The company also acquired the cloud-based software developer Enroute Systems Corp. for an undisclosed amount, followed by the presort services provider Zip Mail Services.\n\nIn mid 2016, Pitney Bowes acquired Maponics, which provides \"geospatial boundary and contextual data\", for an undisclosed amount. In February 2017, the company acquired the Naperville, Illinois-based mailing solutions company ProSORT for an undisclosed amount. Pitney Bowes merged its Des Plaines operating center into a larger Naperville facility. The company acquired Newgistics, an Austin-based e-commerce and retail logistics company, for $475 million in September 2017.\n\nIn mid 2018, Pitney Bowes' Document Messaging Technologies (DMT) division was acquired by Platinum Equity in exchange for $361 million, and the newly acquired business was re-branded as BlueCrest.\n\nIn August 2019, Syncsort announced plans to acquire Pitney Bowes' software solutions business for approximately $700 million. The transaction was completed in December 2019.\n\nMarc Lautenbach has served as Pitney Bowes' president and CEO since December 2012. He has been credited with prioritizing innovation and moving the company into e-commerce and other technology services. In 2016, Stanley Sutula III was named executive vice president and chief financial officer; he succeeded Michael Monahan. Other key personnel include: Lila Snyder, executive vice president and president of commerce services; James A. Fairweather, who serves as chief innovation officer, and Jason Dies, executive vice president and president of Sending Technology Solutions.\n\nFormer CEOs include Murray D. Martin, who served from 2007–2012, and Michael J. Critelli, who served as chairman and chief executive for ten years. Other previous CEOs included: George Harvey, Fred Allen, John Nicklis, Harry Nordberg, and Walter Wheeler.\n\nPitney Bowes introduced the Model M Postage Meter, which was authorized by the United States Postal Service on September 1, 1920. The company released the first mass-market meter designed for desktops in 1949. The first automatic mail sorters were launched by the company in 1957, and mail inserters were created in 1961 to increase productivity and decrease costs associated with volume mailing. In 1968, Pitney Bowes created the first bar code equipment for retail use.\n\nThe company launched Postage by Phone in 1978, reducing reliance on post office visits. In 1986, the company began offering fax machines and scales with microprocessors. Pitney Bowes introduced Paragon, which calculates and affixes postage based on size and weight, in 1992. Line of credit for postage was launched in 1996, followed by D3 software, which allowed message management via email, fax, hard copy, and web, in 1998. In the 2000s, Pitney Bowes introduced its DM1000 Mailing System and IntelliLink technology, a new collection of digital postage meters called the DM Infinity Series, four AddressRight printers, and the IntelliJet Printing System.\n\nThe company enhanced its Internet-based shipping service in 2011 with the introduction of its 'pbSmartPostage' mailing tool, which \"[integrates] postage, package routing, shipping management and reporting into a Web app that can be accessed from any PC with a printer\". In 2015, Pitney Bowes launched its AcceleJet inkjet system, which targets transactional printers and is intended for companies printing at high volumes. In addition to stuffing envelopes, weighing documents, and printing postage, the 2015 model of the Relay Multi-Channel Communication Suite scans and uploads files and offers email marketing functions. Pitney Bowes launched its EngageOne Video software solution in September 2015, providing interactive and personalized video delivery experiences.\n\nIn January 2016, Pitney Bowes began using technology by Electric Imp to enable Internet connectivity for postage meters. The software creates a maintenance program, describes and tracks problems with machines, and enhances data sharing. In March, Pitney Bowes introduced Single Customer View, which uses the company's Spectrum Technology Platform to facilitate data sharing. The customer relationship management aggregator is not specific to the medical industry, but marks a push into the healthcare field. In April 2016, Pitney Bowes launched its \"Commerce Cloud\" system, allowing customers to calculate payments, print labels, and process international transactions, among other tasks, using the company's applications.\n\nIn mid 2016, the company introduced its first channel program and partnered with information technology providers, including global systems integrators Accenture and Capgemini, to help companies find and communicate with customers. The company released a digital device, called SmartLink, in July 2016; the product was developed in collaboration with Electric Imp and connects postage meters to Pitney Bowes' cloud-computing technology, and enabling other maintenance and monitoring services as well. Pitney Bowes also released a suite of digital services, including: Clarity Advisor, which collects machine data to \"combat unplanned downtime\"; Clarity Optimizer, which uses analytics to increase productivity; and Clarity Scheduler which, according to \"Computer Weekly\", \"automates placement of the right job on the right machine at the right time\".\n\nIn September 2016, the company partnered with Lighthouse Computer Services to create data solutions designed to help businesses identify and keep customers, improve marketing initiatives, and reduce fraud. Pitney Bowes released its SendPro300 product in October, and announced its Commerce Complete for Retail platform for expanding global e-commerce businesses. One month later, the company released its location intelligence tool, called GeoVision, which uses data provided by PSMA Australia and allows companies to \"visualise, analyse, and ultimately make use of that data to inform decisions\". Pitney Bowes launched its SendPro C Series in September 2017.\n\nPitney Bowes launched the subsidiary Wheeler Financial to provide equipment financing to small and medium businesses in March 2019.\n\n"}
{"id": "2006845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2006845", "title": "Sophia of Prussia", "text": "Sophia of Prussia\n\nSophia of Prussia (\"Sophie Dorothea Ulrike Alice\", Greek: Σοφία; 14 June 1870 – 13 January 1932) was Queen consort of Greece during 1913–1917 and 1920–1922.\n\nA member of the House of Hohenzollern and daughter of Frederick III, German Emperor, Sophia received a liberal and anglophile education, under the supervision of her mother, Victoria, Princess Royal. In 1889, less than a year after the death of her father, she married her third cousin Constantine, heir apparent to the Greek throne. After a difficult period of adaptation in her new country, Sophia gave birth to six children and became involved in the assistance to the poor, following in the footsteps of her mother-in-law, Queen Olga. However, it was during the wars which Greece faced during the end of the 19th and the beginning of the 20th century that Sophia showed the most social activity: she founded field hospitals, oversaw the training of Greek nurses, and healed wounded soldiers.\n\nHowever, Sophia was hardly rewarded for her actions, even after her grandmother Queen Victoria decorated her with the Royal Red Cross after the Thirty Days' War: the Greeks criticized her links with Germany. Her brother Emperor William II was indeed an ally of the Ottoman Empire and openly opposed the construction of the \"Megali Idea\", which could establish a Greek state that would encompass all ethnic Greek-inhabited areas. During World War I, the blood ties between Sophia and the German Emperor also aroused the suspicion of the Triple Entente, which criticized Constantine I for his neutrality in the conflict.\n\nAfter imposing a blockade of Greece and supporting the rebel government of Eleftherios Venizelos, causing the National Schism, France and its allies deposed Constantine I in June 1917. Sophia and her family then went into exile in Switzerland, while the second son of the royal couple replaced his father on the throne under the name of Alexander I. At the same time, Greece entered the war alongside the Triple Entente, which allowed it to grow considerably.\n\nAfter the outbreak of the Greco-Turkish War in 1919 and the untimely death of Alexander I the following year, the Venizelists abandoned power, allowing the royal family's return to Athens. The defeat of the Greek army against the Turkish troops of Mustafa Kemal, however, forced Constantine I to abdicate in favor of his eldest son George II in 1922. Sophia and her family then were forced to a new exile, and settled in Italy, where Constantine died one year later (1923). With the proclamation of the Republic in Athens (1924) Sophia spent her last years alongside her family and died of cancer in Germany in 1932.\n\nPrincess Sophie was born in the \"Neues Palais\" in Potsdam, Prussia on 14 June 1870. Her father, Crown Prince Frederick of Prussia, and her mother, Victoria, Princess Royal of the United Kingdom (herself the eldest daughter of Queen Victoria and Albert, Prince Consort) were already the parents of a large family and as the penultimate child, Sophie was eleven years younger than her eldest brother, the future Emperor William II of Germany. Frederick and Victoria were a close couple, both on sentimental and political levels. Being staunch liberals, they lived away from the Berlin court and suffered the intrigues of a very conservative Chancellor Otto von Bismarck and members of the House of Hohenzollern.\n\nA week after Sophie's birth, a case relating to succession to the throne of Spain damaged the Franco-Prussian relations. The tone between Paris and Berlin worsened even further after Bismarck published the humiliating Ems Telegram on 13 July 1870. Six days later, the government of Napoleon III declared war on Prussia and the states of the German Confederation offered support to Prussia, which then appeared as the victim of French imperialism. It was in this difficult context that Sophie was christened the following month, though all the men present were in uniform, as France had declared war on Prussia. Sophie's mother described the event to Queen Victoria: \"The Christening went off well, but was sad and serious; anxious faces and tearful eyes, and a gloom and foreshadowing of all the misery in store spread a cloud over the ceremony, which should have been one of gladness and thanksgiving\".\n\nHowever, the conflict lasted only a few months and even led to a brilliant German victory, leading to the proclamation of Sophie's grandfather King William I of Prussia as the first German Emperor on 18 January 1871.\n\nSophie was known as \"Sossy\" during her childhood (the name was thought to have been picked because it rhymed with \"Mossy\", the nickname of her younger sister Margaret).\n\nThe children of the Crown Princely couple became grouped into two by age: William, Charlotte, and Henry who were favoured by their paternal grandparents, while Viktoria, Sophie and Margaret were largely ignored by them. Sophie's two other brothers, Sigismund and Waldemar, died at a young age (Sigismund died before she was born, and Waldemar when he was 11 and she was 8); this drew the Crown Princess and her three younger daughters closer together, calling them \"my three sweet girls\" and \"my trio\".\n\nThe Crown Princess, believing in the superiority of all things English, had her children's nurseries modelled on her childhood. Sophie was raised with a great love for England and all things associated with it as a result, and had frequent trips to visit her grandmother Queen Victoria, whom she loved. Sophie often stayed in England for long periods, especially on the Isle of Wight, where she liked to collect shells with her older siblings.\n\nBecause she was generally avoided by her paternal grandparents, Sophia's formative years were mainly shaped by her parents and her maternal grandmother Queen Victoria. As a little girl she was so deeply attached to the old British sovereign that the Crown Princess didn't hesitate to leave her daughter for long periods under the care of her grandmother.\n\nIn Germany, Sophie largely stayed with her parents at two main residences: the \"Kronprinzenpalais\" in Berlin, and the \"Neues Palais\" in Potsdam. Like her sisters Viktoria and Margaret, she was particularly close to her parents and their relationship became even closer after the death, in 1879, of Waldemar, the favorite son of the Crown Princely couple.\n\nIn 1884, Crown Prince Constantine of Greece (\"Tino\") was sixteen and his majority was declared by the government. He then received the title of Duke of Sparta and \"Diadochos\" (διάδοχος / diádokhos, which means, \"heir to the throne\"). Soon after, the young man completed his military training in Germany, where he spent two full years in the company of a tutor, Dr. Lüders. He served in the Prussian Guard, took lessons of riding in Hanover and studied Political science at the Universities of Heidelberg and Leipzig.\n\nAfter a long stay in England celebrating her grandmother's Golden Jubilee, Sophie became better acquainted with Constantine in the summer of 1887. The Queen watched their growing relationship, writing \"Is there a chance of Sophie's marrying Tino? It would be very nice for her, for he is very good\". The crown princess also hoped that Sophie would make a good marriage, considering her the most attractive among her daughters.\n\nDuring his stay at the Hohenzollern court in Berlin representing the Kingdom of Greece at the funeral of Emperor William I in March 1888, Constantine saw Sophie again. Quickly, the two fell in love and got officially engaged on 3 September 1888. However, their relationship was viewed with suspicion by Sophie's older brother William, by now the new Kaiser, and his wife Augusta Victoria. This betrothal wasn't completely supported in the Hellenic royal family, either: Queen Olga showed some reluctance to the projected union because Sophie was Lutheran and she would have preferred that the heir to the throne marry an Orthodox. But despite the difficulties, Tino and Sophie's wedding was scheduled for October 1889, in Athens.\n\nThis period fell on an unhappy time for Sophie's family however, as her father Emperor Frederick III was dying an agonizing death of throat cancer. His wife and children kept vigil with him at the \"Neues Palais\", even celebrating Sophie's birthday and offering her a bouquet of flowers as a gift. The Emperor died the next day. Sophie's eldest brother William, now German Emperor, quickly ransacked his father's things in the hopes of finding \"incriminating evidence\" of \"liberal plots\". Knowing that her three youngest daughters were more dependent on her than ever for emotional support, the now-Dowager Empress Frederick remained close to them: \"I have my three sweet girls - he loved so much - that are my consolation\".\n\nAlready shocked by the attitude of her eldest son, the Dowager Empress was deeply saddened by Sophie's upcoming marriage and move to Athens. Nevertheless, she welcomed the happiness of her daughter and consoled herself in a voluminous correspondence with Sophie. Between 1889 and 1901, the two women exchanged no less than 2,000 letters. On several occasions, they were also found in each other's homes, in Athens and Kronberg. The preparations of Sophie's wedding were \"hardly a surprising development considering the funeral atmosphere that prevailed at the home of her widowed mother\".\n\nOn 27 October 1889, Sophie married Constantine in Athens, Greece in two religious ceremonies, one public and Orthodox and another private and Protestant. They were third cousins in descent from Paul I of Russia, and second cousins once removed through Frederick William III of Prussia. Sophie's witnesses were her brother Henry and her cousins Princes Albert Victor and George of Wales; for Constantine's side, the witnesses were his brothers Princes George and Nicholas and his cousin the Tsarevich of Russia.\nThe marriage (the first major international event held in Athens) was very popular among the Greeks. The names of the couple were reminiscent to the public of an old legend which suggested that when a King Constantine and a Queen Sophia ascended the Greek throne, Constantinople the Hagia Sophia would fall to Greek hands. Immediately after the marriage of the \"Diadochos\", hopes arose for the Greek populace of the \"Megali Idea\", i.e. the union of all Greeks in the same state. Abroad, the marriage of Constantine and Sophie raised much less enthusiasm. In France, it was feared that the arrival of a Prussian princess in Athens would switch the Kingdom of Greece to the side of the Triple Alliance. In Berlin, the union was also unpopular: German interests were indeed important in the Ottoman Empire and the Emperor didn't intend to help Greece simply because the \"Diadochos\" was his new brother-in-law.\n\nNevertheless, in Athens, the marriage ceremony was celebrated with pomp and gave rise to an especially significant pyrotechnic spectacle on the Acropolis and the Champ de Mars. Platforms were also built on the Syntagma Square so the public could better admire the procession between the Royal Palace and the Cathedral. The newlyweds were related to most of the European dynasties, so representatives of all the royal houses of the continent were part of the festivities: King Christian IX of Denmark (grandfather of the groom), Emperor William II of Germany (brother of the bride), the Prince of Wales (uncle of both groom and bride) and the Tsarevich of Russia (groom's cousin) were among the guests of honor. Naturally, Sophie's mother and sisters were also present at the ceremony.\n\nIn fact, the hosts and their retinues were so many in the small Hellenic Capital that King George I couldn't receive all of them in his palace. He had to ask some members of the Greek high society to receive part of the guests in their mansions. Similarly, the sovereign was obliged to borrow the horses and carriages of his subjects in order to transport all visitors during the festivities. In addition, the king was forced to hastily buy dozens of additional liveries for the lackeys at the service of the guests.\n\nIn the Hellenic Capital Constantine and Sophia settled in a small villa of French style located on Kifisias Avenue, while waiting for the Greek state to build a new home for them, the Diadochos Palace, located near the Royal Palace. The couple also ordened the building of another house on the royal estate of Tatoi because King George I refused to allow work to be undertaken in the main palace. In Athens, Constantine and his wife lived a relatively simple life far removed from the protocol of other European courts. But life in Greece was often monotonous and Sophia lamented for any company, save only for the wives of the tobacco sellers.\n\nSophia had difficulties adjusting to her new life. However, she took up learning Modern Greek (and managed to become almost perfectly fluent in a few years) and used her many trips abroad to furnish and decorate her new home. Less than nine months after her marriage, on 19 July 1890, the Crown Princess gave birth to her first child, a slightly premature son who was named George after his paternal grandfather. But the birth went wrong and the umbilical cord was wrapped around the baby's neck, almost choking him. Fortunately for the mother and child, the German midwife sent by the Dowager Empress Victoria to help her daughter in childbirth managed to resolve the situation and no tragic consequences occurred.\n\nAfter the birth of her eldest son, Sophia decided to embrace the faith of her subjects and convert to the Orthodox faith. Having requested and received the blessing of her mother and grandmother, the Crown Princess informed her in-laws of her intention and asked Queen Olga for instruction in orthodoxy. The Greek royal family was delighted by the news, because the announcement of the conversion would be popular among the Greeks. But King George I insisted that Germanus II, Metropolitan of Athens and Head of the Autocephalous Greek Church would instruct Sophie in the Orthodoxy, rather than his wife. Of Russian origin, Queen Olga was indeed considered by some Greek nationalists as an \"agent of the Pan-Slavism\" and King George I therefore preferred that Germanus II would guarantee the task that could otherwise create difficulties for the Crown.\n\nThough the news of her conversion was greeted calmly by most members of her family, Sophia feared the reaction of Emperor William II, who took his status as Head of the Evangelical State Church of Prussia's older Provinces very seriously and hated disobedience more than anything.\n\nSophia took a trip to Germany with her husband for the occasion of the wedding of her sister Viktoria to Prince Adolf of Schaumburg-Lippe, in November 1890, and personally announced to her brother her intentions to change her religion. As expected, the news strongly displeased the Emperor and his wife, the very pious Empress Augusta Victoria. The latter even tried to dissuade her sister-in-law to convert, triggering a heated argument between the two women. The Empress later claimed that this caused her to go into premature labor, and deliver her sixth child, Prince Joachim, too early. William II, meanwhile, was so angry that he threatened Sophia with excluding her from the Prussian royal family. Pressed by her mother to appear conciliatory, Sophia ended up writing a letter to her brother explaining the reasons for her conversion. But the Emperor would not listen, and for three years he forbade his sister to enter Germany. Upon receiving his reply Sophie sent a telegram to her mother: \"Received answer. Keeps to what he said in Berlin. Fixes it to three years. Mad. Never mind.\"\n\nSophia officially converted on 2 May 1891; however, the imperial sentence was ultimately never implemented. Nevertheless, relations between William II and his sister were permanently marked by Sophia's decision. Indeed, the Emperor was an extremely resentful man and he never stopped making his younger sister pay for her disobedience.\n\nThroughout her life in Greece, Sophia was actively involved in social work and helping the underprivileged. Following in the footsteps of Queen Olga, she led various initiatives in the field of education, soup kitchens and development of hospitals and orphanages. In 1896, the Crown Princess also founded the Union of Greek Women, a particularly active organization in the field of assistance to refugees from the Ottoman Empire. Fascinated by arboriculture and concerned by the fires that regularly ravaged the country, Sophia was also interested in the reforestation. In addition, she was one of the founders of the Greek Animal Protection Society.\n\nHowever, it was during the wars that Greece suffered during late 19th early 20th century that Sophie showed the most social activity. In 1897 and at the outbreak of the Thirty Days' War against the Ottomans about the possession of Crete which ended with a humiliating Greek defeat, Sophia and other female members of the royal family actively worked with the Greek Red Cross in order to help wounded soldiers. In the thessalian front, the Crown Princess founded field hospitals, visited the wounded and even directly administered care for victims of the fighting. Sophia also facilitated the arrival of English nurses in Greece and even participated in the training of young women volunteers to provide assistance to wounded soldiers.\n\nThe involvement of Sophia and her mother-in-law in the aid to the victims of fighting (either of Greek or Turkish origin) was so active that it elicited admiration from other European courts. As a reward for their work, both women were decorated with the Royal Red Cross by Queen Victoria, in December 1897. Unfortunately for the Crown Princess, her help for the wounded soldiers was less appreciated in Greece, where the population accused the royal family, and especially \"Diadochos\" Constantine, for the loss against the Ottomans.\n\nAfter the Thirty Days' War, a powerful anti-monarchical movement developed in Greece and Sophia herself wasn't immune to criticism. Always eager to punish his sister for her disobedience, Emperor William II of Germany openly supported the Ottoman Empire during the conflict and agreed to offer his mediation after being begged by his sister, his mother and his grandmother. He demanded that Greece agree to humiliating conditions in exchange for his intervention and the population believed that he did so with the consent of his sister.\n\nBut Sophia wasn't the only victim of popular condemnation. In fact, it was openly discussed in Athens that the \"Diadochos\" should be sent before a military court to punish him for the national defeat and depose King George I as was previously done with his predecessor Otto I. Several weeks after the signing of the Peace Treaty between Greece and the Ottoman Empire, the situation became so tense that the sovereign was a subject of an assassination attempt when he travelled in an open carriage with his daughter, Princess Maria. But George I defended himself so bravely that he recovered at least some estimation from his subjects.\n\nIn these difficult conditions, Constantine and Sophia choose to live some time abroad. In 1898, they were established in Kronberg, and then in Berlin. There the \"Diadochos\" resumed his military training with General Colmar von der Goltz and for a year, he received the command of a Prussian division. To mark their reconciliation, Emperor William II also appointed Sophia as Honorary Commander of the 3rd regiment of the Imperial Guard.\n\nThe couple returned to Greece in 1899 and the government of Georgios Theotokis appointed Constantine as the head of the Hellenic Staff. This promotion, however, caused some controversy among the army, which still considered the \"Diadochos\" as the main person responsible for the defeat in 1897.\n\nBack in Greece with her husband, the Crown Princess resumed her charity work. However, the health of both her mother and English grandmother deeply concerned her. The Empress Dowager of Germany was indeed suffering from breast cancer, which caused her extreme suffering. As for the Queen of the United Kingdom, she was approaching the age of eighty and her family knew that the end was close. But the last years of Queen Victoria's reign were marked by the Second Boer War, during which the United Kingdom suffered terrible losses facing the Afrikaner resistance. Sophia was concerned that the difficulties suffered by the British in South Africa would undermine the already fragile health of her grandmother.\n\nQueen Victoria finally died of a cerebral hemorrhage on 22 January 1901 in Osborne House. Very affected by the death of the sovereign, Sophia traveled to the United Kingdom for her funeral and attended a religious ceremony in her honor in Athens with the rest of the Greek royal family.\n\nA few months later, in the summer of 1901, Sophie went to \"Friedrichshof\" to look after her mother, whose health continued to decline. Five months pregnant, the Crown Princess knew that the Dowager Empress was dying and, with her sisters Viktoria and Margaret, she accompanied her until her last breath on 5 August. In the space of seven months Sophia lost two of her closest relatives. However, her new maternity helped keep her from feeling sorry for herself.\n\nIn Greece, political life remained volatile throughout the first years of the 20th century and the \"Megali Idea\" ( \"Megáli Idéa\", \"Great Idea\") continued to be a central concern of the population. But in 1908, the Cretan authorities unilaterally proclaimed the attachment of their island to the Kingdom of Greece. But for fear of Turkish reprisals, the Greek government refuses to recognize the annexation, although the island was, de facto, detached from the Ottoman Empire. In Athens, the pusillanimity of the King and government was shocking, particularly to the militia. On 15 August 1909, a group of officers gathered in the \"Military League\" (, Stratioticos Syndesmos) and organized the so-called Goudi coup. While declaring to be monarchists, members of the League, led by Nikolaos Zorbas, asked, among other things, for the sovereign to expel his son from the army. Officially, this was to protect the Crown Prince from the jealousies that could arise from his friendship with some soldiers. But the reality was quite different: officers continued to hold the \"Diadochos\" responsible for the 1897 defeat.\n\nThe situation became so tense that King George I's sons had to resign from their military posts to save their father the shame of having to expelled them. In September, the \"Diadochos\", his wife and their children also chose to leave Greece and seek refuge in Germany at \"Friedrichshof\", now owned by the Princess Margaret of Prussia. Meanwhile, in Athens, discussions began about dethroning the House of Glücksburg to establishing a republic or replacing the sovereign with either a bastard son of Otto I, a foreign prince or with Prince George, with Sophia as regent.\n\nIn December 1909, Colonel Zorbas, head of the Military League, pressured George I to appointed him Head the government in place of Prime Minister Kyriakoulis Mavromichalis. The sovereign refused but the government undertook reforms which favored the military. The staff was reorganized and supporters of the \"Diadochos\", including Ioannis Metaxas, were expelled. At the same time, French soldiers were called to reorganize the Greek army, which threatened both Sophia and her husband, as they helped develop republican ideas within the militia.\n\nDespite these reforms, some members of the Military League continued to oppose the government in order to take power. They then traveled to Crete to meet the Head of government of the island, Eleftherios Venizelos, and offered him the post of Prime Minister of Greece. But the Cretan leader didn't want to appear in Greece to be supported by the army and convinced them to arrange for new elections. In March 1910, the king eventually called for elections and Venizelos and his supporters came to power. For the royal family, this was a difficult time.\n\nHowever, Venizelos didn't want to weaken the Crown. To show that he didn't obey the army, he restored the members of the royal family to their military duties and the \"Diadochos\" thus again became Chief of the Staff. Back in Greece on 21 October 1910, after over a year of exile, Sophia nevertheless remained very suspicious of the new government and the militia. She refused any contact with Venizelos, blaming him as partly responsible for the humiliation suffered by the royal family. The Princess also had problems with her father-in-law, whom she accused of having been weak during the crisis.\n\nAfter the arrival of Venizelos in power and under the supervision of \"Diadochos\" Constantine, the Greek army was modernized and equipped with the support of French and British officers. New warships are also controlled by the Navy. The aim of the modernization was to make the country ready for a new war against the Ottoman Empire. But to defeat the enemy and achieve the \"Megali Idea\", Greece needed allies. That was why, under the Prime Minister, Greece signed alliances with its neighbors and participated in the creation of the Balkan League in June 1912. Thus, when Montenegro declared war on the Ottoman Empire on 8 October 1912, they were joined less than ten days later by Serbia, Bulgaria and Greece. This was the beginning of the First Balkan War.\nWhile the \"Diadochos\" and his brothers took command of Greek troops, Queen Olga, Sophia, and her sisters-in-law (Marie Bonaparte, Elena Vladimirovna of Russia and Alice of Battenberg) took in charge the aid to wounded soldiers and refugees. In one month, the princesses collected 80,000 garments for the military and gathered around them doctors, nurses and medical equipment. The Queen and Crown Princess also opened a public subscription in order to create new hospitals in Athens and on the front. Very active, the princesses did not just stay in the back but also went to the center of the military operations. Queen Olga and Sophia visited Larissa and Elassona, while Alice made long stays in Epirus and Macedonia. Meanwhile, Elena directed an ambulance-train and Marie Bonaparte set up a hospital ship that connected Thessaloniki to the capital.\n\nBut if the war was an opportunity for the princesses to prove themselves useful to their adopted country, it also exacerbated rivalries within the royal family. Conflict began due to Sophia's jealousy of her cousin and sister-in-law Alice. In fact, a heated argument between the two young women erupted after Alice sent, without requesting permission from Sophia, nurses dependent on the Crown Princess to Thessaloniki. One seemingly innocuous event provoked a real discomfort within the family and Queen Olga was shocked when Sophia's attitude was supported by her husband.\n\nSophia and Constantine's marriage was harmonious during the first years. However, faithfulness was not the greatest quality of the \"Diadochos\" and his wife soon had to deal with his numerous extramarital affairs. Initially shocked by what she saw as a betrayal, Sophia soon followed the example of her mother-in-law and condoned the behavior of her husband. From 1912, however, the couple became noticeably separated. At that time, Constantine began an affair with Countess Paola von Ostheim (\"née\" Wanda Paola Lottero), an Italian stage actress who had recently divorced from Prince Hermann of Saxe-Weimar-Eisenach; this relationship lasted until Constantine's death.\n\nWhen Sophia gave birth to her sixth and last child, a daughter named Katherine on 4 May 1913, a persistent gossip stated that the child was the result of her own affairs. The rumours, true or false, didn't affect Constantine, who easily recognized his paternity.\n\nIn private, the Crown Princely couple communicated in English and it was mainly in this language that they raised their children, who grew up in a loving and warm atmosphere in the middle of a cohort of tutors and British nannies. Like her mother, Sophia inculcated in her offspring the love for the United Kingdom and for several weeks every year, the family spent time in Great Britain, where she visited the beaches of Seaford and Eastbourne. However, the summer vacations of the family were spent not only in \"Friedrichshof\" with the Empress Dowager, but also in Corfu and Venice, where the Greek royal family went aboard the yacht \"Amphitrite\".\n\nThe First Balkan War ended in 1913 with the defeat of the Ottoman Empire by the Greek, Bulgarian, Serbian and Montenegrin coalition. The Kingdom of Greece was greatly expanded after the conflict but disagreements soon arose between the Allied powers: Greece and Bulgaria competed for possession of Thessaloniki and its surrounding region.\n\nTo affirm the sovereignty of the Greeks over the main city of Macedonia, King George I moved to the city soon after its conquest by the \"Diadochos\", on 8 December 1912. During his long stay in the city, the King went out every day to walk unescorted in the streets, as he had become accustomed to doing in Athens. On 18 March 1913 a Greek anarchist named Alexandros Schinas shot him in the back from a distance of two paces while he was walking in Thessaloniki near the White Tower.\n\nSophia was in Athens when she learned of the murder of her father-in-law, the king. Now, as Queen Consort of the Hellenes, the responsibility fell upon her to break the news of the murder to her mother-in-law. Together with her eldest daughter, Princess Helen, both comforted the now Dowager Queen, who received the news stoically. The next day, members of the royal family who were present in the capital went to Thessaloniki. Arriving in the Macedonian city, they visited the scene of the murder and collected the remains of the King to escort them back to Athens, where he was buried at Tatoi.\n\nIn this difficult context, the death of George I sealed the possession of Thessaloniki to Greece. Still, the Second Balkan War broke out in June 1913 over the division of Macedonia between the former allies of the first conflict. Victorious again, Greece came out of this war considerably enlarged, with the prestige of King Constantine I and Queen Sophia also increased.\n\nAfter their accession to the throne, Constantine I and Sophia continued to lead the simple lifestyle that they had enjoyed during their time as heirs. They spent their free time practicing botany, which was their common passion, and transformed the gardens of the New Royal Palace on the English model.\n\nThe couple was very close to other members of the royal family, especially Prince Nicholas. Every Tuesday, the King and Queen dined with him and his wife Elena, and on Thursdays, they returned the visit with the royal couple at the Royal Palace.\n\nAt the outbreak of World War I on 4 August 1914 Sophia was in Eastbourne with several of her children while her husband and their daughter Helen were the only representatives of the dynasty still present in Athens. But given the gravity of the events, the Queen quickly returned to Greece, where she was soon joined by the rest of the royal family.\n\nWhile the greater European states entered into the conflict one by one, Greece officially proclaimed his neutrality. Being grandchildren of the so-called \"Father-in-law and Grandmother of Europe\" (as King Christian IX of Denmark and Queen Victoria respectively were known), Constantine and Sophia were closely related to the monarchs of the Triple Alliance and the Triple Entente. Above all, the King and Queen were aware that Greece was already weakened by the Balkan Wars and was not ready to participate in a new conflict. However, the population did not share the opinion of the sovereigns. Prime Minister Eleftherios Venizelos hoped that thanks to the start of the war, they would carry the \"Megali Idea\" and continue defeating the Ottoman Empire.\n\nThings got complicated when the Triple Entente engaged in the Gallipoli Campaign in February 1915. Desiring to release the Greek populations of Asia Minor from Ottoman rule, Constantine I, at first, was ready to offer his support to the Allies and bring his country into the war. However, the King faced with the opposition of his Staff and, in particular, Ioannis Metaxas, who threatened to resign if Greece entered the war because the country didn't have the means. Constantine I therefore desisted, causing the wrath of Venizelos. Convinced that the royal couple was in connivance with the Emperor, the Prime Minister tried to bring his country into war despite the opposition of the Crown. But, facing the united front of the King, the army and the majority of the government, the politician ended up giving his resignation on 6 March.\n\nWeakened by all these events, Constantine I became seriously ill after this crisis. Suffering from pleurisy aggravated by a pneumonia, he remained in bed for several weeks and nearly died. In Greece, public opinion was outraged by a rumour, spread by Venizelists, who said that the King wasn't sick but was in fact wounded with a knife by Sophia during an argument where she wanted to force him to go to war alongside her brother. Certainly the Queen kept a frequent communication with her brother. In the words of G. Leon, \"She remained a German, and Germany's interests were placed above those of her adopted country which meant little to her. Actually she never had any sympathy for the Greek people\". Other sources point to the opposite, based on her many charitable works and efforts to improve the lives of the Greek people in and around the capital.\n\nThe King's health declined so a ship was sent to the Island of Tinos in order to seek the miraculous icon of the Annunciation who supposedly heal the sick. While Constantine I had already received the last sacraments, he partly recovered his health after kissing the icon. However, his situation remained worrying and he needed surgery before he could resume his duties. Relieved by the recovery of her husband, Sophia offered then, by way of ex-voto, a sapphire to enrich the icon.\n\nDuring the King's illness period, the Triple Entente continued to put pressure on Greece to go to war alongside them. Dimitrios Gounaris, successor of Venizelos as Prime Minister, proposed the intervention of his country in the conflict in exchange for the protection of the Allies against an eventual attack of Bulgaria. However, the Triple Entente, although eager to form an alliance with them, refused the agreement.\n\nIn June 1915, legislative elections gave victory to the Venizelists. A month later, Constantine I, still convalescent, reasumed his official duties and eventually called on Venizelos to head the Cabinet on 16 August. In September, Bulgaria entered the war alongside the Central Powers and attacked Serbia, ally of Greece since 1913. Venizelos asked the King to proclaim a general mobilization, which he refused. However, to avoid a new political crisis, Constantine I finally proclaimed mobilization while making it clear that this was a purely defensive measure. On 3 October, in order to force the King to react, the Prime Minister called on the Allied Powers to occupy the port of Thessaloniki but Constantine I left the city when the French, Italian and British forces landed in the city. The break was now final between Venizelos and the royal family.\n\nAs for the Allied governments, the attitude of Constantine and Sophies appeared as a betrayal and they appeared as such in the newspapers of the Triple Entente. The French press accused the Queen of regularly visiting the beaches of Phalerum in order to supply of German submarines with fuel.\n\nIt must be said that by refusing to go to war, Greece prevented the Franco-British troops of helping Serbia, whose armies soon found themselves overwhelmed by the Austro-Bulgarian coalition, and it made even more uncertain an Allied victory in the Dardanelles. In retaliation, the Triple Entente ordered Greece to demobilize its army while martial law was proclaimed in Thessaloniki and a blockade was imposed on the Greeks.\n\nNevertheless, the King and Queen were far from losing their support in the country. On the contrary, the withdrawal of British troops from the Dardanelles, in December 1915, reinforced the confidence of many Greeks in their sovereign, and Constantine I used this advantage to call new elections. Aware of the electoral defeat that surely awaited them, Venizelos and his supporters refused, in turn, to participate in the poll and declared that the new elected Greek parliament was illegal.\n\nFrom that point on, the Greek government held a policy more favorable to the Triple Alliance. The population officially protested against the transfer of the Serbian army to Corfu and then to Thessaloniki. Orders were also given to the officers present at the borders to not oppose a possible Bulgarian advance into the country, which took place on 27 May 1916. Finally, in April 1916, Constantine I symbolically proclaimed the annexation of Northern Epirus to Greece in response against the Italian intervention into Albania.\n\nNow considered enemies of the Triple Entente, the royal couple faced an increasingly violent opposition to them. The French developed various plots to kidnap or assassinate of the sovereigns. On 14 July 1916, a mysterious fire (probably a deliberate act of arson set by agents of Paris) broke out in the forest surrounding Tatoi. In the confusion of the event, Sophia saved her youngest daughter, Princess Katherine, and ran over 2 km. into the woods with the child in her arms. Several members of the royal family, including Constantine I himself, were wounded and the residence of the rulers was largely destroyed by the fire, which lasted for forty-eight hours. Above all, sixteen (or eighteen, depending on sources) soldiers and other members of the palace staff were killed.\n\nAfter these events, the attitude of the royal family to Germany changed considerably. Between December 1916 and February 1917, the Queen, who had long been less germanophile than her husband, sent several telegrams to her brother asking when the troops of the Centrals would be able to intervene in Macedonia. However, Sophia still had some resentment against the Emperor because of his attitude at the time of her marriage and her conversion to Orthodoxy; but the violation of Greece's neutrality by the Triple Entente and the threats against the life of her husband and children gradually changed her views against the Allies.\n\nIn October 1916, Eleftherios Venizelos set up in Thessaloniki, where he organized a provisional government against the one led by Spyridon Lambros in Athens: this was the beginning of the called National Schism (, \"Ethnikos Dikhasmos\"). In the meanwhile, a Franco-British fleet commanded by Vice-admiral Louis Dartige du Fournet, occupied the bay of Salamis to put pressure on Athens, while various ultimatums were sent, mainly concerning the disarmament of his army. With the blockade, the supply of the capital was increasingly difficult and famine began. Sophia therefore redoubled her efforts to help the poor. With the Patriotic League of Greek Women, she managed to distribute 10,000 meals a day, as well as clothing, blankets, medicines and milk for children. Still, the situation became even more difficult.\n\nOn 1 December 1916 Constantine I finally agreed to the French demands and soldiers of the Triple Entente landed in Athens to seize guns promised by the sovereign two months earlier. But secretly a group of Greek reservists mobilized and fortified Athens. The French were met by a heavy fire and were killed; the event was called by the local press of the time as the \"Greek Vespers\". After this, the king congratulated both the Minister of War and General Dousmanis.\n\nThe Triple Entente quickly reacted to this attack. The French fleet bombarded the royal palace in Athens, forcing Sophia and her children to take refuge in the castle cellars for several hours. Above all, the government of Aristide Briand offered to depose Constantine I and replaced him by his younger brother, Prince George.\n\nHowever, Russia and Italy refused to intervene because of fears of Greek claims on Asia Minor and the blood ties between Constantine I and Tsar Nicholas II.\n\nWith the Russian Revolution of 1917 and the deposition of Nicholas II, Constantine I and Sophia had lost the last of their supporters in the Triple Entente. Thus, on 10 June 1917 Charles Jonnart, the Allied High Commissioner, asked the Greek Government for the abdication of the King and his replacement by another prince because the \"Diadochos\" George was considered a pro-German too. Under the threat of an invasion of 10,000 troops in Piraeus, Constantine I thus relinquished power in favor of his second son, Prince Alexander. Nevertheless, the sovereign refused to abdicate and he explained to his second son that he should not be regarded otherwise than as a kind of regent, in charge of the throne until the return of the legitimate monarch.\n\nOn 11 June, the royal family secretly left the Royal Palace, surrounded by a group of loyalists and arrived to Tatoi. The next day, Constantine I, Sophia and five of their children left Greece from the port of Oropos, taking the road to exile. This was the last time that Sophia saw her second son, now proclaimed King as Alexander I. In fact, after their return to power, Venizelists prohibited any contact between the new sovereign and the rest of the royal family.\n\nAfter crossing the Ionian Sea and Italy, Sophia and her family settled in Switzerland, mainly between the cities of St. Moritz, Zürich and Lucerne. In exile, the rulers were soon followed by almost all the members of the royal family, who left Greece on the return of Venizelos at the head of the government and Greece entered the war at the side of the Triple Entente. In addition, the financial position of the royal family was precarious and Constantine I, haunted by a deep sense of failure, soon fell ill. In 1918, he contracted Spanish flu and was again close to death.\n\nAlready concerned about the health of her husband, Sophia was devastated by the prohibition to get in touch with her second son. In fact, in Athens, Alexander I was entirely cut off from his family and the government formally prevented him from communicating with his parents. Even during the short stay of the King in Paris in May 1920, guards closely monitored the sovereign. So when Sophia telephoned him at his hotel, a man cut her appeal and coldly replied that \"His Majesty is sorry but he can't answer the phone\".\n\nWith the end of World War I and the signing of the Treaties of Neuilly and Sèvres, the Kingdom of Greece achieved significant territorial gains in Thrace and Anatolia. However, this didn't give back the country its lost stability and tensions between Venizelos and the exiled royals continued. The decision of Alexander I to marry Aspasia Manos rather than a European princess, displeased both the Head of the government and the King's parents. Very attached to social conventions, Sophia condemned what she saw as a \"mésalliance\" while the Prime Minister saw in this marriage a lost opportunity to get closer to Great Britain.\n\nOn 2 October 1920, King Alexander I was bitten by a pet monkey as he walked on the royal estate of Tatoi. His wounds quickly became infected and he suffered from a strong fever and sepsis. On 19 October, he became delirious and called out for his mother at his bedside. However, the Greek government refused to allow Sophia to return to Greece: they feared that the loyalists would benefit from the presence of the Queen in Athens to organize action against them.\n\nVery worried about her son, Sophia begged the government to change their mind but, aware that only her mother-in-law still found favor with Venizelists, she eventually asked Olga to go to Athens to take care of Alexander I. After several days of negotiations, the Dowager Queen obtained permission to return to Greece, but delayed by rough seas, she only arrived twelve hours after the death of her grandson, on 25 October.\n\nTwo days later, the remains of the young King were buried in the royal crypt of Tatoi. Again, the government banned the exiled royals from entering the country and the Dowager Queen was the only member of the family to attend the funeral. The loss of her son and the impossibility to go to his funeral deeply affected Sophia; many observers now emphasized the sadness that showed on the Queen's face.\n\nIn Athens, the death of Alexander I created a serious institutional crisis. Always opposed the return of Constantine I and \"Diadochos\" George to Greece, the government of Eleftherios Venizelos offered the throne to Prince Paul, the third son of the deposed sovereign. However, he refused to ascend the throne before his father and his elder brother unless a referendum appointed him as the new Head of State.\n\nHowever, the situation of the Venizelists was already precarious after the difficulties faced by the country during the Greco-Turkish War of 1919-1922. Supporters of King Constantine I therefore experienced a resurgence of popularity and Venizelos was defeated in the parliamentary elections of November 1920. The return of monarchists in power led to the resignation of Venizelist administrative staff and on 17 November Admiral Pavlos Kountouriotis, who was appointed regent after the death of Alexander I, chose to resign. The new Prime Minister Dimitrios Rallis, therefore asked Dowager Queen Olga to assume the regency until the return of her son, on 19 December 1920. For about a month, she was the head of the Greek kingdom but her role was roughly limited to prepare the restoration of Constantine I.\n\nIn the meanwhile, in Switzerland, the royal family was preparing the wedding of two of their children with children of King Ferdinand I of Romania. A few weeks before the death of Alexander I, the \"Diadochos\" George was engaged to Princess Elisabeth of Romania, which gave the opportunity for Princess Helen of Greece to meet Crown Prince Carol of Romania and in turn, become engaged to him. But if Sophia was satisfied with her son's upcoming wedding, she disapproved of her daughter's romance with the Romanian Crown Prince. Still saddened by the loss of Alexander I, the Queen did not want to lose another of her children. Above all, Sophia had no confidence in the future Carol II, whose marriage and divorce with Zizi Lambrino had already shocked her.\n\nThe return of Constantine I and Sophia to Athens on 19 December 1920, was accompanied by large demonstrations of joy. Everywhere in the streets, portraits of Venizelos were pulled and replaced by those of the royal family. Above all, a huge crowd surrounded the royal couple in the streets of the capital and, after returning to the Royal Palace, they had to appear repeatedly on the balcony to greet the people who cheered them.\n\nHowever, the presence of the sovereigns in Greece didn't bring the expected peace by the people. Even more, it prevented the country to receive the support of the major powers in the war that Greece faced against the Turkey of Mustafa Kemal since 1919. In fact, the former allies didn't forgive the King and Queen's attitude during World War I and they weren't ready to provide their support. The hatred of the great powers to Constantine I and Sophia appeared also clearly on the occasion of the marriage, in Athens, of Princess Helen and Crown Prince Carol of Romania. Present at the wedding, the ambassador of Great Britain and his wife pointedly refused to salute the Greek King and Queen when they publicly showed their respects to Queen Marie of Romania. For Sophia, the snub was more difficult to bear because she had always been on good terms with the United Kingdom representatives before the deposition of Constantine I and she continued to nurture loving feelings for the country of her mother.\n\nIn fact, the main source of joy for Sophia after her return to Greece was the birth of her granddaughter Alexandra, on 25 March 1921. Although initially opposed to Alexander's marriage with Aspasia Manos, the Queen welcomed their daughter with delight and pressed both her husband and eldest son to give her granddaughter the status and titles reserved to members of the royal family.\n\nAfter initial success, the situation of the Greek army was increasingly precarious in Anatolia. Constantine I decided to travel there in May 1921 to support the morale; however he wasn't the dynamic Commander-in-chief that led his country to victory in the Balkan Wars of 1912-1913. Seriously diminished by illness, he had to return to Greece in September, which was perceived as a real military desertion by some. As for Sophia, she couldn't do more than support her husband and reassume her nursing work with wounded soldiers.\n\nThe Greco-Turkish War continued until the Greek defeat of Sakarya in August–September 1921, and the siege and burning of Smyrna (now İzmir) by the Turks in September 1922. After these events, the country plunged into a deep political and moral crisis. While Mustafa Kemal and his armies gradually reconquered Anatolia and east Thrace, thousands of Greeks were murdered and others fled from Asia Minor to find refuge in Greece. This was called the \"Great Disaster\", which was definitive a few months later with the signing of the Treaty of Lausanne (24 July 1923).\n\nIn response to the military defeat by the Turks, a part of the Greek army, commanded by General Nikolaos Plastiras, revolted on 11 September 1922. They demanded the abdication of Constantine I and the dissolution of the Hellenic Parliament. Having consulted his friend, General Ioannis Metaxas, the King abdicated on 27 September on his eldest son, who succeeded him on the throne under the name of George II.\n\nTo ensure their security and stabilize the throne of their son, Constantine I and Sophia once again chose to take the path of exile. On 30 October 1922 the deposed royal couple, Princesses Irene and Katherine and Prince Nicholas with his family, went again to the port of Oropos to leave their country. But, contrary to what happened in 1917, few followers awaited them this time before their departure into exile.\n\nOn board the Greek steamboat \"SS Patris\", the royal family arrived in Sicily and moved to the \"Villa Hygeia\" in Palermo. The Greek political situation remained a source of concern for the exiles. In fact, in Athens, the called Trial of the Six led to the execution for high treason of former Prime Ministers Petros Protopapadakis, Nikolaos Stratos and Dimitrios Gounaris and Generals Georgios Baltatzis, Nikolaos Theotokis and Georgios Hatzianestis, all accused of responsibility for the defeat against Turkey. Above all, the life of Prince Andrew, brother of Constantine I, was also threatened in November–December 1922 and only the intervention from foreign governments commuted his sentence from death to exile.\n\nIncreasingly depressed by the events that had shaken Greece and sick with arteriosclerosis, Constantine I developed a deep depression. He then remained sometimes hours without speaking, staring into space. Faced with this situation, Sophia's anxiety (already bigger by the fate of George II and other members of the royal family who remained in Greece), only increased. The Queen and her husband therefore made the decision to leave Sicily and settled in Florence. However, Constantine I died of a brain hemorrhage shortly before their departure, on 11 January 1923, and Sophia found herself even more isolated than she was previously.\n\nAfter the death of her husband, Sophia wanted to repatriate his remains to be buried in Tatoi but the Greek government refused, with George II being unable to do anything. In fact, the situation of the new King was increasingly precarious and at the end, he himself went into exile in Romania a few months after the death of his father, on 19 December 1923. The republic was then proclaimed in Greece on 25 March 1924 and Sophia and the other members of the royal family were stripped of their Hellenic nationality. However, the Greek royals maintained their Danish titles since George I ascended to the Greek throne in 1863 and King Christian IX of Denmark almost immediately gave them Danish passports.\n\nSophia, now Dowager Queen, left Southern Italy with her daughters Irene and Katherine and moved to Tuscany, in the \"Villa Bobolina\" of Fiesole. From 1924 to 1927, the three women were joined by Princesses Aspasia and Alexandra, much to Sophia's delight, because she was very attached to her granddaughter. In 1930, Princess Helen also came to live with her mother after her disastrous marriage with King Carol II of Romania ended in divorce. During summer vacations, the Dowager Queen had the opportunity to see her grandson Prince Michael of Romania, when he came to visit his mother.\n\nSurrounded by her family, Sophia found some stability but, convinced that Greece wouldn't remain a republic forever, refused to acquire the villa where she settled. Released from any official position, she had now more freedom to travel. She made frequent trips to Germany, where she reunited with her sister Margaret, but also to Great Britain, after having obtained the permission of King George V. The Dowager Queen also witnessed several strong moments in the life of the European elite. In 1929, she went to Doorn in the Netherlands for the 70th birthday of her brother, the former Emperor William II, whom she had not seen since 1914.\n\nIn her older years, Sophie became increasingly religious. She remained orthodox, but also attended Anglican offices when she had the chance. The Queen Dowager was also interested in the Protestant literature, especially in the works of the Episcopalian pastor Samuel Shoemaker (particularly \"Religion That Works\" and \"Twice Born Ministers\") and the Episcopalian Rev. James Reid (\"In Touch With Christ\"). Finally, she had a close correspondence with the Anglican pastor R. W. Cole, whom she met in Birchington, and spent long hours praying.\n\nSick for many years, Sophia saw her condition worsen from 1930, which forced her to go to a hospital in Frankfurt to follow a treatment. Apparently recovered by December, she took full advantage of her strength and during 1931 she traveled to Great Britain, Bavaria and Venice. But in September, her condition deteriorated again and she had to return to Frankfurt, where she underwent surgery. It was during this time that the doctors diagnosed advanced cancer and they gave the Dowager Queen a few weeks to life. After the New Year celebrations of 1932, Sophia gradually stopped eating and her health declined rapidly. She finally died surrounded by her children in the hospital, on 13 January 1932.\n\nSophia's body was transferred to the castle of \"Friedrichshof\", where she rested a few days before being sent to the Russian Church in Florence, where she was buried alongside her husband and mother-in-law. They stayed there for four years until the restoration of George II on the Greek throne in 1935.\n\nAfter his restoration on the Greek throne, George II organized the repatriation of the remains of members of his family who died in exile. An important religious ceremony that brought together, for six days in November 1936, all members of the royal family still alive. Sophia's body was buried at the royal burial ground at Tatoi Palace, where she still rests today.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2006846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2006846", "title": "London Positivist Society", "text": "London Positivist Society\n\nThe London Positivist Society was a philosophical circle that met in London, England, between 1867 and 1974. In 1934 it merged with the English Positivist Committee. The Society's members occupied themselves in applying the ideas of the philosophical school of Comtean positivism to current affairs of the day, including the movement for home rule in Ireland (which the Society supported, following Gladstone's lead), the Second Boer War (which the Society opposed), and the Indian independence movement (which the Society supported).\n\nThe Society was founded by Richard Congreve (1818–1899) in 1867. Its members at one time or another included Henry Tompkins (1870–1954); Donald Fincham (1916–1969); George Henry Lewes (1817–1878); Frederick William Walsh (1879–1923), who had been paralysed in an industrial accident but whose mind remained sharp; Paul Juste Decours; and Benjamin Fossett Lock (honorary secretary of the Society 1880–1886), who resigned in 1886 over the Irish home rule debate.\n\nIn 1934 the London Positivist Society merged with the English Positivist Committee, taking the latter's name.\n\nThe Society's presidents included \n\nIn 1878, the organization published a manifesto protesting the Second Anglo-Afghan War. Edward Spenser Beesly signed the manifesto, which was one page long, and believed that attacking the Afghans was unjust.\n\n"}
{"id": "2006849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2006849", "title": "New Creek", "text": "New Creek\n\nNew Creek is an stream in eastern West Virginia. It is the third major West Virginia tributary to the North Branch Potomac River. Via the Potomac, it is part of the watershed of Chesapeake Bay.\n\nNew Creek rises on New Creek Mountain in northern Grant County and flows generally northeastwardly through western Mineral County, past the community of New Creek. It joins the North Branch of the Potomac at the city of Keyser.\n\nThe creek was named after Peter New, an area pioneer.\n\n"}
{"id": "2006866", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2006866", "title": "Callaloo", "text": "Callaloo\n\nCallaloo (sometimes callalloo, calalloo, calaloo or kallaloo) is a popular Caribbean vegetable dish. There are many variants across the Caribbean, depending on the availability of local vegetables. The main ingredient is an indigenous leaf vegetable, traditionally either amaranth (known by many local names including \"callaloo\", but not Spinach or \"bhaaji\" due to taste and texture), taro (known by many local names, including \"dasheeen bush\", \"callaloo bush\", \"callaloo\", or \"bush\") or \"Xanthosoma\" (known by many names, including \"coco\" & \"tannia)\". \n\nSince the leaf vegetable used in some regions may be locally called \"callaloo\" or \"callaloo bush\" \"dasheen Leaves\", some confusion can arise among the vegetables and with the dish itself. This, as many other Caribbean dishes are remnants of West African cuisine. \n\nOutside of the Caribbean, water spinach is occasionally used. Trinidadians, Grenadians and Dominicans primarily use taro/dasheen bush for callaloo, although Dominicans also use water spinach. Jamaicans, Belizeans and Guyanese on the other hand use the name \"callaloo\" to refer to amaranth, and use it in a plethora of dishes and also a drink ('callaloo juice'). The 'callaloo' made in Jamaica is different from the 'callaloo' made in Trinidad and Tobago, Grenada and rest of the Caribbean in terms of main ingredient (the leaf used) and other ingredients included. \n\nWhile Jamaicans tend to steam callaloo leaf with tomatoes, salt, peppers, onions, scallions, with or without salt-fish, Trinidadians use Callaloo leaves/ dasheen bush, okra, coconut milk, pumpkin, onions, bell peppers, local seasonings and spices along with crabs or pigtails. \"Callaloo\" in Trinidad is used in a variety of dishes including Callaloo soup or \"oil down\". Callaloo is the National Dish of the twin Island Republic of Trinidad and Tobago and the Commonwealth of Dominica.\n\n\nCallaloo in Trinidad & Tobago and other eastern Caribbean countries is generally made with okra and dasheen or water spinach \"Ipomoea aquatica\". There are many variations of callaloo which may include coconut milk, crab, conch, Caribbean lobster, meats, pumpkin, chili peppers, and other seasonings such as chopped onions and garlic. The ingredients are added and simmered down to a somewhat stew-like consistency. When done, callaloo is dark green in colour and is served as a side dish which may be used as a gravy for other food.\n\nCallaloo is widely known throughout the Caribbean and has a distinctively Caribbean origin, utilising indigenous (\"Xanthosoma\") plants and modified with African influences, such as okra. (See Palaver sauce for the West African dish.). Trinidadians have embraced this dish from their ancestors and over time have added ingredients such as coconut milk to modify its flavour. Callaloo is mostly served as a side dish, for Trinidadians, Bajans, and Grenadians it usually accompanies rice, macaroni pie, and a meat of choice. In Guyana it is made in various ways without okra.\n\nIn Jamaica, callaloo is often combined with saltfish and is usually seasoned with tomatoes, onion, escallion, scotch bonnet peppers and margarine/cooking oil and steamed. It is often eaten with roasted breadfruit, boiled green bananas and dumplings and it is a popular breakfast dish.\n\nIn Grenada, callaloo is steamed with garlic, onion and coconut milk and often eaten as a side dish. Grenadians also stir or blend the mixture until it has a smooth consistent texture. Callaloo soup comprising callaloo, okra (optional), dumplings, ground provision like yam, potato (sweet and \"Irish\") chicken and beef is traditionally eaten on Saturdays. It is also one of the most important ingredient in Oil Down, the Island's National Dish comprising steamed breadfruit, callaloo, dumplings, ground provision, carrot and several varieties of meat--salt fish, chicken, pork. All of this is steamed in coconut milk and saffron powder. Salt and pepper is added. Due to the high iron content of callaloo, Grenadians douse it down with a fruit drink high in Vitamin C especially as Iron could only be absorbed in the presence of Vitamin C. \n\nIn the Virgin Islands, callaloo is served with a dish of fungee on the side.\n\nIn Guadeloupe, \"calalou au crabe\" (crab callaloo) is a traditional Easter dish.\n\nA similar variation is the recipe called \"Laing\" which is popular in the Philippines, mainly the Bicol region.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2006873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2006873", "title": "Alfred G. Knudson", "text": "Alfred G. Knudson\n\nAlfred George Knudson, Jr. (August 9, 1922 – July 10, 2016) was an American physician and geneticist specializing in cancer genetics. Among his many contributions to the field was the formulation of the Knudson hypothesis in 1971, which explains the effects of mutation on carcinogenesis (the development of cancer).\n\nKnudson was born in Los Angeles, California in 1922. He received his B.S. from California Institute of Technology in 1944, his M.D. from Columbia University in 1947 and his Ph.D. from California Institute of Technology in 1956. He held a Guggenheim fellowship from 1953 to 1954.\n\nFrom 1970 to 1976, Knudson served as the Dean of Graduate School of Biomedical Sciences, University of Texas Health Science Center at Houston in the Texas Medical Center. He was affiliated with Fox Chase Cancer Center in Philadelphia from 1976 until his death in 2016.\n\nKnudson is best known for his \"two-hit hypothesis,\" explaining the incidence of hereditary cancers, such as retinoblastoma. Humans inherit two copies of every gene, one from each parent (except for genes on the X and Y chromosomes in males). Some people inherit one mutated version and one normal version of the retinoblastoma gene, which produces the retinoblastoma protein involved in controlling cell cycle progression. The inherited mutation is \"the first hit.\" Over time, a mutation may arise in the normal version in one cell, thus producing \"the second hit,\" which leaves the cell unable to control the process of cell division in an orderly manner, leading to cancer.\n\nKnudson's insight was to compare the incidence of retinoblastomas, including the number of tumors, the ages of occurrence, and whether tumors occurred in both eyes, among children in families with and without hereditary predisposition to retinoblastomas. Children in families with a hereditary predisposition have more tumors at a younger age and usually have tumors in both eyes. Children in families without the hereditary predisposition usually have only one tumor at a later age.\n\nThe differences in occurrence can be explained by the rate of gene mutation during cell division (a somatic mutation), and a model that requires only one somatic mutation per tumor in hereditary cases but requires two somatic mutations, one on each copy of a particular cell cycle control gene, in one cell lineage in non-hereditary cases, i.e. the co-occurrence of two rare events. Knudson subsequently showed that the model was not only applicable to retinoblastoma but also to Wilms' tumors of the kidney. These studies led to the concept of tumor suppressor genes, which Knudson called \"anti-oncogenes.\"\n\nHe received numerous prizes and honorary doctorates for his work, most prominently the 1998 Albert Lasker Award for Clinical Medical Research. He also received the 1999 American Society of Pediatric Hematology/Oncology (ASPHO) Distinguished Career Award, the 2005 American Association for Cancer Research (AACR) Award for Lifetime Achievement in Cancer Research, and the 2004 Kyoto Prize in Life sciences.\n\nAfter a long illness, Knudson died on July 10, 2016 at the age of 93 at his home in Philadelphia .\n\n"}
{"id": "2006879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2006879", "title": "Sue Harukata", "text": "Sue Harukata\n\nHarukata was born to the Sue clan, which was related to the Ōuchi clan, and served as shugodai of Suō Province. As a boy, he served Ōuchi Yoshitaka, a childhood friend. After \"genpuku\", he was given the name Takafusa after Ōuchi Yoshitaka. In 1539, after his father Okifusa died of illness, he became the head of the Sue clan. Being an able retainer, he became known as the Samurai General Without Peer in the Western Provinces (\"Saigoku-musō no Samuraidaishō\").\n\nFrom 1540 to 1542, he worked as the general, replacing Ōuchi Yoshitaka, in the war with the Amago clan. However, when Ōuchi's troops lost heavily in 1542, Yoshitaka's interest in war faded, and he began to incline to cultural activities. Because of this, the civil official Sagara Taketō became close to Yoshitaka, and Harukata's relationship with Yoshitaka declined.\n\nIn 1551, Harukata succeeded in the coup against Ōuchi Yoshitaka, killing Sagara Taketō and leading Yoshitaka to commit suicide. The next year Harukata secured the control of the Ōuchi clan by making the adopted son of Yoshitaka, Ōuchi Yoshinaga (who was Ōtomo Haruhide, the half-brother of Ōtomo Sōrin), the head of the clan. At this time he changed his name from Takafusa to Harukata, as his master changed from Yoshitaka to Haruhide. Subsequently, he conducted a large military expansion, but this led to discontent among the retainers of the Ōuchi clan. In 1554 Yoshimi Masayori of Iwami Province, Yoshitaka's brother-in-law, and Mōri Motonari of Aki Province rebelled against Harukata.\nIn the Battle of Oshikibata, Sue Harukata's retainer Takagawa, was defeated by Mori Motonari.\n\nIn 1555 Harukata lost the Battle of Itsukushima to Mōri Motonari, and committed suicide. After the loss, the Ōuchi clan declined considerably and, two years later, Mōri Motonari annihilated the clan.\n\n"}
{"id": "2006883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2006883", "title": "NWA Mid-Atlantic Tag Team Championship", "text": "NWA Mid-Atlantic Tag Team Championship\n\nThe NWA Mid-Atlantic Tag Team Championship is the tag team title currently defended in the National Wrestling Alliance's NWA Mid-Atlantic territory. The championship was originally created in the summer of 1968 and was originally named the NWA Atlantic Coast Tag Team Championship. During this time, the title was the primary tag team championship that was defended in Mid-Atlantic Championship Wrestling owned by Jim Crockett, Sr. and later by his son, Jim Crockett, Jr.. While the current Mid-Atlantic promotion operates primarily out of the same area as the Crockett promotion, they aren't the same as Jim Crockett, Jr. sold his territory to Ted Turner in November 1988. This promotion would then be renamed World Championship Wrestling. The title was relegated to serve as the secondary tag team championship in Crockett's territory after Mid-Atlantic created its own territorial version of the NWA World Tag Team Championship in January 1975 and was used until sometime in 1985 when it was abandoned. In 2000, the title was revived for the Mid-Atlantic territory.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2006884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2006884", "title": "Vasaborg", "text": "Vasaborg\n\nVasaborg was a noble family of Sweden and a branch of the House of Vasa.\n\nKing Gustav II Adolf of Sweden had an illegitimate son called Gustav Gustavsson who in 1637 was ennobled under the name of Vasaborg, echoing his father's House of Vasa.\n\nQueen Christina of Sweden raised her illegitimate half-brother to the dignity of a count when she gave him the Countship of Nystad in 1647. He and his family were registered to the Swedish House of Knights as its sixth comital family. Count Gustav's wife was Countess Anna Sofia of Wied-Runkel. \n\nThe Vasaborg coat of arms depicted a sheaf of hay, representing the arms of Vasa, crossed by a diagonal bend sinister, indicating Gustav's illegitimate origins.\n\nThe family of Vasaborg lived mostly in the new Swedish possessions of Lower Saxony, where they received several estates. Their seat was at Wildeshausen, which was received by the first Count after the Peace of Westphalia in 1648.\n\nThe second count of Nystad, Gustav Adolf (1653-1732), was a lieutenant colonel. His wife was countess Angelica Catharina of Leiningen-Westerburg. In 1679, following the Treaty of Nijmegen, Sweden pawned Wildeshausen's overlordship to the Prince-Bishop of Münster in exchange for a loan of 100,000 Riksdaler. Sweden lost the county in 1721, and the second count subjected himself to King George I of Great Britain.\n\nThe male line of the house of Vasaborg became extinct in 1754 with the death of the third count, George Maurice of Vasaborg (1678-1754). He was also the last male descendant of the House of Vasa. His remaining sister and the last official bearer of their surname, countess Henrietta Polyxena (1696-1777) died in 1777.\n\nHowever, two Vasaborg descendants survived: the children of George Maurice's late sister, the countess Sophia Elisabeth Christina of Vasaborg (1694-1736?) and her husband, Count Henning von Stralenheim (1663-1731), the sometime governor-general of Zweibrücken. These descendants were daughter Catharina Sophia (1717-64), who married the baron Eric Sparre (1700-42), Lord of Forbach in Lorraine; and son Count Henning Gustav (1719-1787).\n\nWith the fading of the Vasaborg line, Henning Gustav von Stralenheim was adopted into it and began to use both names, typically written in Germany as \"Count von Stralenheim-Wasaburg.\" He married baroness Caroline von Esebeck (born in 1746) and had children who continued the Vasaborg name, the male line of which died out in 1872 and the female line of which still exists.\n\nIn 1777, King Gustav III of Sweden forbade his distant cousin Henning Gustav from using the Swedish title and name Vasaborg, due to the king's pride for his own female-line ancestry from the royal Vasa dynasty. Because Vasaborg was outside of Swedish dominions, and the house's comital rank and titles were granted by the Holy Roman Empire, this Swedish royal declaration had very little effect in reality. Foreign counts and nobility listings continued using the name Stralenheim-Wasaburg. \n\nOf Count Henning Gustav's children, his daughter Christiana Louise (1783-1857) married the Swedish count Charles Adam Lewenhaupt (1760-1821) and left descendants in Sweden. Henning Gustav's oldest son, Count Heinrich Gustav (1766–1818), lived in Bavaria; his middle son, Count Carl August (1780-1842), in France, where his descendants reside. The youngest son, Count Charles Andrew Maurice (1810-72), was the last male count of Stralenheim-Wasaburg and left only daughters.\n"}
{"id": "2006888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2006888", "title": "Hard Time (comics)", "text": "Hard Time (comics)\n\nHard Time is a comic book series written by Steve Gerber and Mary Skrenes and originally published by DC Focus, a short-lived imprint of DC Comics. The aim of the imprint was to feature super-powered characters who did not follow the traditional format of classic superhero adventures. \"Hard Time\"<nowiki>'s</nowiki> first run was 12 issues long, published from April 2004 to March 2005.\n\nThe series returned from hiatus in December 2005, titled \"Hard Time: Season Two\". With the demise of DC Focus, this run was published under the unfocused DC bullet.\nDC announced \"Hard Time\"'s cancellation in March 2006. The comic ended with issue #7 of \"Season Two\".\n\n\"Hard Time\" focuses on 15-year-old Ethan Harrow (early publicity referred to him as \"Ethan Chiles\"), who was involved in a high-school shooting scare gone wrong which cost several students their lives. For two years Travis Danes and the high school football team bullied Ethan and his friend Brandon Snood, whose home life was fairly bad. After Travis and two of his friends tried to rape a girl named Inez Mellencamp, Brandon stopped it by setting off the fire alarm. Travis and his friends merely got suspended for a week. Later Ethan and Brandon plan a \"fake\" school shooting as a way of getting back at the jocks. Unfortunately, things go wrong and Brandon winds up shooting several students and faculty members. As Ethan later tells his lawyer, \"it was supposed to be a joke. Brandon told me the guns were loaded with blanks\". Ethan is initially in shock; but when Brandon levels his gun at Alyssa Nichols, a girl that Ethan has feelings for, Ethan tries to stop him. Unsuccessful at first, Ethan's super-power emerges, killing Brandon.\n\nAfter the shooting, Travis was paralyzed and Brandon was dead, along with four others.\nAlthough Ethan was not directly involved with the murders, he was tried as an adult and given fifty years to life in prison with eligibility for parole in the year 2053. Ethan maintains that the media convicted him before he ever got to trial.\n\nWhile in prison, Ethan continues to manifest a superpower called the \"KHE-CHARE\" that appears as psychic manifestation of his alter ego while he sleeps, or is otherwise unconscious. A fellow inmate, the elderly \"Fruitcake\" eventually instructs Ethan on the use of his power and its origin. Initially, Ethan is unaware of his alter ego, which acted on his suppressed emotions of anger and revenge. Ethan eventually learns how to control his powers and use them even in a conscious state.\n\nWhile in prison, Ethan encounters a number of people, including:\n\nWhile Ethan is in prison, life goes on outside. Ethan's mother, Sheila Harrow is dating Jack Forbes, his lawyer. Norma \"Red\" Rothenberg, the granddaughter of Curly corresponds with Ethan. Also, Alyssa Nichols, now institutionalized and currently residing at the Shady Grove mental institution, sends him letters thanking him for saving her life. She asked Ethan to write back, and the two share a dream-like relationship.\n\nOn Ethan Harrow's 16th birthday, Red, the granddaughter of one of Ethan's fellow inmates, takes his virginity against the door of the visitor's restroom. Mercedes goes into labour as she and Arturo are being married. Ethan's lawyer asks his mother to marry him, but she said no.\n\nThe first issue of \"Season Two\" was released on December 7, 2005.\n\nEthan met with his lawyer, who is trying to get him a new trial, and Red's parents, Julius and Truth Rothenberg, representatives of \"The Prisoners' Rights Foundation\". Ethan told them the full story of the school shooting. Jack told Ethan that the judge was up for an election and couldn't look \"soft\" on high school shooters. Jack told Ethan to stay out of trouble until the new trial.\n\nA new inmate named \"CUTTER\" ,who is a psycho, arrives at the prison. Cole starts schooling Ethan in \"\"Prison Economics\"\". Ethan's Khe-Chara starts having violent revulsion to \"CUTTER\", so \"Fruitcake\" gives him a \"Third Eye\". The \"CUTTER\" befriends Hardin and Cindy into his \"Sphere of Influence\".\n\n\"Hard Time Season Two\" #7 jumps ahead 49 years to the year 2053, to the end of Ethan's sentence. His mind is scanned, to determine whether he is genuinely repentant for his crime; in the process, the various fates of everyone he met while in prison are revealed, as are many details about how his superhuman power functioned (which allowed him to send out his astral form to experience numerous activities outside the prison), and what happened to the people outside of prison. Eventually he is ruled to have truly atoned, and is released. He walks out the prison gate and sees a floating limousine is waiting for him; although the readers do not see who is inside the limousine, Ethan does, and gets in.\n\n\nThe first series has been collected into trade paperbacks:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2006890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2006890", "title": "Anthem of the Republic of Karelia", "text": "Anthem of the Republic of Karelia\n\nThe Anthem of the Republic of Karelia is the regional anthem of the Republic of Karelia, a federal subject of Russia.\n\nThe music for the anthem was written by Alexander Beloborodov. The Russian lyrics were composed by Armas Mishin and Ivan Kostin. The Finnish text was written by Mishin alone. The lyrics of the anthem are established by law. The melody of the anthem in most parts follows the melody of the Finnish traditional song \"Karjalan kunnailla\". Since December 2001, the Russian text is the only official one.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2006896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2006896", "title": "Pseudorandom binary sequence", "text": "Pseudorandom binary sequence\n\nA pseudorandom binary sequence (PRBS) is a binary sequence that, while generated with a deterministic algorithm, is difficult to predict and exhibits statistical behavior similar to a truly random sequence. PRBS generators are used in telecommunication, such as in analog-to-information conversion , but also in encryption, simulation, correlation technique and time-of-flight spectroscopy.\n\nA binary sequence (BS) is a sequence formula_1 of formula_2 bits, i.e.\n\nA BS consists of formula_5 ones and formula_6 zeros.\n\nA BS is a pseudorandom binary sequence (PRBS) if its autocorrelation function, given by\n\nhas only two values:\n\nwhere\n\nis called the \"duty cycle\" of the PRBS, similar to the duty cycle of a continuous time signal. For a maximum length sequence, where formula_10, the duty cycle is 1/2.\n\nA PRBS is 'pseudorandom', because, although it is in fact deterministic, it seems to be random in a sense that the value of an formula_11 element is independent of the values of any of the other elements, similar to real random sequences.\n\nA PRBS can be stretched to infinity by repeating it after formula_2 elements, but it will then be cyclical and thus non-random. In contrast, truly random sequence sources, such as sequences generated by radioactive decay or by white noise, are infinite (no pre-determined end or cycle-period). However, as a result of this predictability, PRBS signals can be used as reproducible patterns (for example, signals used in testing telecommunications signal paths).\n\nPseudorandom binary sequences can be generated using linear-feedback shift registers.\n\nSome common sequence generating monic polynomials are\n\nAn example of generating a \"PRBS-7\" sequence can be expressed in C as\nint main(int argc, char* argv[]) {\n\nIn this particular case, \"PRBS-7\" has a repetition period of 127 values.\n\nThe PRBS\"k\" or PRBS-\"k\" notation (such as \"PRBS7\" or \"PRBS-7\") gives an indication of the size of the sequence. formula_10 is the maximum number of bits that are in the sequence. The \"k\" indicates the size of a unique word of data in the sequence. If you segment the \"N\" bits of data into every possible word of length \"k\", you will be able to list every possible combination of 0s and 1s for a k-bit binary word, with the exception of the all-0s word. For example, PRBS3 = \"1011100\" could be generated from formula_21. If you take every sequential group of three bit words in the PRBS3 sequence (wrapping around to the beginning for the last few three-bit words), you will find the following 7 word arrangements:\nThose 7 words are all of the formula_22 possible non-zero 3-bit binary words, not in numeric order. The same holds true for any PRBS\"k\", not just PRBS3.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2006904", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2006904", "title": "Beckett", "text": "Beckett\n\nBeckett is an English surname. Notable people with the surname include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2006908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2006908", "title": "Rock climbing in Wales", "text": "Rock climbing in Wales\n\nWales is a United Kingdom centre of rock climbing. Occasional harsh winters provide winter climbing. \n\nThe main area of focus is the mountains and crags of Snowdonia. Good quality sport climbing on limestone is available at Llandudno and at Pot Hole Quarry, and on slate at the quarries in Llanberis and Dinorwic. There is good quality sea cliff climbing in Pembrokeshire, the Gower Peninsula and at South Stack Anglesey.\n\nMore limited climbing opportunities exist in South Wales. These are usually to be found in limestone outcrop and quarry areas, such as the Llangattock escarpment or Morlais. The Sandstone quarries of the South Wales valleys underwent sustained development in the early to mid 90s and form a popular local sport climbing destination. There are also opportunities in the Wye Valley on both sides of the Wales / England border.\n\n"}
{"id": "2006910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2006910", "title": "Augusta of Saxe-Weimar-Eisenach", "text": "Augusta of Saxe-Weimar-Eisenach\n\nPrincess Augusta of Saxe-Weimar-Eisenach (Augusta Marie Luise Katharina; 30 September 1811 – 7 January 1890) was the Queen of Prussia and the first German Empress as the consort of William I, German Emperor.\n\nAugusta was the second daughter of Charles Frederick, Grand Duke of Saxe-Weimar-Eisenach and Maria Pavlovna of Russia, a daughter of Paul I of Russia and Sophie Dorothea of Württemberg.\n\nWhile her father was an intellectually limited person, whose preferred reading up to the end of his life was fairy tales, Johann Wolfgang von Goethe spoke of Augusta's mother Marie as \"one of the best and most significant women of her time.\" Augusta received a comprehensive education, including drawing lessons from the court painter, Luise Seidler, as well as music lessons from the court bandmaster, Johann Nepomuk Hummel.\n\nAugusta was only fifteen years old when, in 1826, she first met her future husband, Prince Wilhelm (William) who was more than fourteen years older than her. William thought the young Augusta had an \"excellent personality,\" yet was less attractive than her older sister Marie, whom William's younger brother, Karl (Charles), had already married. Above all, it was William's father who pressed him to consider Augusta as a potential wife.\n\nAt this time, William was in love with the Polish Princess Elisa Radziwill. The Crown Prince at the time was William's elder brother, Crown Prince Friedrich Wilhelm (later King Frederick William IV). He and his wife Elisabeth Ludovika had been married three years and had no children. Although it was not anticipated that they would remain childless (which turned out to be the case), the court did expect that William, as heir presumptive to the throne, should make a dynastic marriage and produce further heirs.\n\nKing Frederick William III was indulgent of the relationship between his son William and Elisa, but the Prussian court had discovered that her ancestors had purchased their princely title from Emperor Maximilian I, and she was not deemed noble enough to marry a potential King of Prussia. Ironically, Crown Princess Elisabeth Ludovika, who as a Bavarian princess was considered to be of correct rank, counted both Bogusław Radziwiłł and Janusz Radziwiłł among her ancestors, albeit through female descent.\n\nIt was suggested by some courtiers that if Eliza Radziwill was adopted by a family of adequate rank, then a marriage with Prince William was possible. In 1824, the Prussians turned to the childless Alexander I of Russia to adopt Elisa, but the Russian Tsar declined. The second adoption plan by Elisa's uncle, Prince Augustus of Prussia, likewise failed because the responsible committee considered that adoption does not change \"the blood.\" Another factor was the Mecklenburg relations of the deceased Queen Louise's influence in the German and Russian courts (she was not fond of Elisa's father).\n\nThus, in June 1826, William's father felt forced to demand the renunciation of a potential marriage to Elisa. Thus, William spent the next few months looking for a more suitable bride, but did not relinquish his emotional ties to Elisa. Eventually, William asked for Augusta's hand in marriage on 29 August (in writing and through the intervention of his father). Augusta agreed and on 25 October 1828, they were engaged.\n\nHistorian Karin Feuerstein-Prasser has pointed out on the basis of evaluations of the correspondence between both fiancées, what different expectations William had of both marriages: He wrote to his sister Charlotte, the wife of Nicholas I of Russia, with reference to Elisa Radziwill: \"One can love only once in life, really\" and confessed with regard to Augusta, that \"the Princess is nice and clever, but she leaves me cold.\" Augusta liked her future husband and hoped for a happy marriage, in the end, it was an inwardly happy marriage despite outward appearances.\n\nOn 11 June 1829, William married his fiancée in the chapel of Schloss Charlottenburg.\n\nThe first weeks of marriage were harmonious; Augusta was taken favorably in the Prussian King's court, however, Augusta soon started to be bored with its military sobriety, and most courtly duties (which may have counteracted this boredom) were reserved to her sister-in-law, Crown Princess Elisabeth.\n\nIn a letter which William wrote on 22 January 1831 to his sister Charlotte, he has mixed feelings of his wife's \"lack of femininity\". Prince Friedrich (later Emperor Frederick III of Germany), was born later that year on 18 October 1831, three years after their marriage and Louise, was born on 3 December 1838, seven years later.\n\nAugusta was very interested in politics. Like so many other liberally-minded people of the time, she was hopeful regarding the accession of Frederick William IV, her brother-in-law, who was regarded as a potentially modern and open king. However, he refused to grant a constitution to Prussia and led a far more conservative government than was expected from his liberal ideals during his years as the crown prince. A \"united Landtag\" was created by the King in reaction to the crop failures and hunger revolts of 1847, but was dissolved a few months later. Prince William was held responsible for the bloodshed of the March revolution in 1848, in Berlin and on the advice of the King, William fled to London, and Augusta and their two children withdrew to Potsdam.\n\nIn liberal circles, an idea was seriously discussed as to whether or not to force the King to abdicate, the Crown Prince renounce his rights to the throne, and instead have Augusta take up a regency for their son. Because the letters and diaries of that time were later destroyed by Augusta, it is not clear whether she seriously considered this option. After, in May 1848, 800 members of the German National Assembly met in the Frankfurter Paulskirche to discuss German unification and Prince William returned from London the following month. A year later, in 1849, he was appointed Governor-General of the Rhine Province and in the spring of 1850, he and Augusta took up residence in Koblenz.\n\nAugusta enjoyed life in Koblenz and it was here that she could finally live out court life as she was accustomed to during her childhood in Weimar. Meanwhile, their son Friedrich (Frederick) studied nearby in Bonn and became the first Prussian prince to receive an academic education.\n\nKoblenz was subsequently visited by many liberal-minded contemporaries, including the historian Max Dunker and legal professors August von Bethmann-Hollweg, Clemens Theodor Pertes and Alexander von Schleinitz. Critically, Augusta's tolerance towards Catholicism at Koblenz (and throughout her lifetime) was scorned in Berlin and was felt inappropriate for a Prussian Protestant princess.\n\nIn 1856 Augusta and William's only daughter, Princess Louise (then 17 years old), married Frederick, Grand Duke of Baden, and in 1858 their son Frederick married Princess Victoria, the eldest child of Queen Victoria and Prince Albert. Augusta saw this as a personal triumph and hoped her new daughter-in-law's liberal upbringing, particularly under Prince Albert, in a modern country like the United Kingdom would guide Frederick in the direction of a liberal monarchy at home.\n\nIn 1858, William became Regent after his brother was no longer able to lead his government due to suffering several strokes. He and Augusta traveled to the court at Berlin.\n\nWilliam soon dismissed the old ministry when he succeeded his childless brother as king in 1861 and appointed liberal ministers of his own, notably from his own court at Koblenz, including: Alexander von Schleinitz, who became Foreign Secretary; August von Bethmann, who became Minister of Culture; and Karl Anton of Hohenzollern-Sigmaringen who became Minister President of Prussia. The conservative opponents saw this as the work of Augusta, but her political influence on William was rather small. This became evident a few months later when he dissolved parliament, which was not bending to his will. The King appointed Otto von Bismarck as the new Prussian Minister President. Augusta, now Queen, regarded Bismarck as her mortal enemy and Bismarck likewise despised Augusta for her (albeit small) influence on her husband.\n\nAugusta was particularly horrified at Bismarck's foreign policy and his cause in the commencement of the Austro-Prussian War. At the same time, she became more and more estranged from the king and Bismarck began to comment negatively on the Queen in parliament; the Queen reacted by being rude to Bismarck's wife, Johanna.\n\nThe Queen soon began to suffer from her manic-depressive phases again and started making frequent trips to Baden-Baden, in search of a cure. At this time, the Prussian population was rejoicing in the victory at Königgrätz, but Augusta began mourning for the dead and injured. Augusta also became estranged from her daughter-in-law, Victoria who, contrary to custom, inherited the former Queen Elisabeth's jewelleries, which were supposed to be left to Augusta. \n\nAugusta, who clearly abhorred war, founded the National Women's Association in 1864, which looked after wounded and ill soldiers and convened with Florence Nightingale for ideas. Several hospital foundations exist today from Augusta's initiative, including the German Society of Surgery.\n\nThe Austro-Prussian War soon ended in 1866 but four years later, the Franco-Prussian War started in 1870 and Augusta continued to hold Bismarck personally responsible. However, the aftermath of the war left William as German Emperor and Augusta as German Empress.\n\nAugusta felt the Imperial Crown a personal defeat; she wanted the Prussian supremacy in Germany to succeed by \"moral conquest\" and not by bloodshed. Her opinion of the war was established by erecting an educational establishment in Potsdam in 1872, as \"a home for the education of destitute daughters of German officers, military officials, priests and doctors from the field of honour as a result of the war of 1870-71.\"\n\nAugusta buried her differences with Bismarck only after the war, as it seemed he was the only suitable man to support her beloved grandson, Wilhelm (William). However, the younger Wilhelm disliked Bismarck and soon forced him to resign during the first few years of his own reign.\n\nAugusta had suffered from rheumatism for many years and in June 1881, she received heavy injuries from a fall which left her dependent on crutches and a wheelchair, but this did not hinder her from fulfilling her duties.\n\nShe also renewed her vows with her husband on his 90th birthday in 1887, but he died a year later. Only 99 days later, her son, who had succeeded to the throne as Frederick III, succumbed to cancer of the larynx. She did, however, see her beloved grandson Wilhelm become king and emperor that year, but died a year later on 7 January 1890, aged 78, at the Altes Palais Unter den Linden. Augusta was buried in the \"\" beside her husband.\n\n\n\nAmong others, the following were named for her:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2006913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2006913", "title": "John Savage (surveyor)", "text": "John Savage (surveyor)\n\nJohn Savage was an 18th-century surveyor of colonial Virginia. He surveyed as part of a 1736 expedition to settle a boundary dispute between Lord Fairfax and the English Privy Council concerning the extent of the vast Northern Neck land grant.\n\nIn 1736, three different survey expeditions were organized with all three having representatives of both the Colony of Virginia and of Lord Fairfax. One party was to explore and map the Potomac to its head; this included Major William Mayo and Mr Brookes for the Colony (and King) and Mr Winslow and John Savage for Fairfax. A second party was to explore and map the North Branch of the Rappahannock (Mr Wood, Mr Thomas, Jr) and the final party was to explore and map the South Branches (Rapidan and Conway Rivers) of the Rappahannock (Mr Graeme, Mr Thomas, Sr). All parties consisted of surveyors and commissioners and their works were completed in all three cases.\n\nThe work of the three groups and the county surveyors lead to the preparation of a map of the Northern Neck in 1736 and 1737. This map shows the courses of the Potomac and Rappahannock and cites latitudes across the map. What the map does not show, however, is a western boundary line for the grant. A line connecting the head springs of the Potomac with those of the Rappahannock had yet to be surveyed. This was to be the work of Colonel Peter Jefferson and Thomas Lewis — the \"Fairfax Line\" party — in 1746 and 1747, which finally settled the disputed claims.\n\nJohn Savage is the namesake of the Savage River in Maryland.\n\n"}
{"id": "2006921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2006921", "title": "Shanghai American School", "text": "Shanghai American School\n\nShanghai American School (SAS) is an independent, not-for-profit international school located in Shanghai, China. Founded in 1912, SAS has two campuses and over 2,800 students enrolled in Pre-K through 12th grade, making it China's largest international school.\n\nThe Puxi campus is located in Huacao Town, Minhang District, and the Pudong campus is located in the Shanghai Links Executive Community in Pudong.\n\nThe school has various signature programs, including Innovation Institute, a two-year interdisciplinary project based learning program, and Microcampus, a month-long immersion into a small village in China's Yunnan Province. Microcampus has been recognized by hundrED as one of the 100 most innovative education programs in the world.\n\nBoth campuses, in Puxi and Pudong, offer Advanced Placement and International Baccalaureate Diploma's, as well as both programmes together to high school students.\n\nStudents participate in over 150 clubs, sports, and other activities including National English Honor Society, National Honor Society, Rho Kappa Honor Society, Model United Nations, International Thespian Society, and Tri-M Music Honor Society.\n\nSAS is a founding member of Asia Pacific Activities Conference (APAC), which comprises some of the largest international schools in Asia. Through APAC, SAS students participate in a variety of intramural recreations, including badminton, volleyball, band, choir, and theater. The school also co-founded the China Cup and Tri-Cities competitions. SAS students also participate in the China International Schools Sports Association (CISSA) League.\n\nEarly Decades\n\nSAS opened on September 17, 1912 with 38 students and a two-building campus in Shanghai's Hongkou neighborhood, north of the Bund. The school was originally intended to serve \"the children of American missionaries and other European residents in the East\" but quickly established a reputation for academic excellence, and within a decade, the campus had grown to include twelve buildings on or near North Sichuan Road. With the support of the American business community in Shanghai and abroad, SAS broke ground on a purpose-built campus located amid farmland on the western edge of \"Frenchtown\" (today's former French Concession).\n\nIn 1923, SAS moved to a new campus located on Avenue Petain (now Hengshan Road), whose administration building was modeled after Philadelphia's Independence Hall. (It can still be seen along Hengshan Road; the Girl's Dormitory and Water Tower also remain but are not visible from the road.)\n\nOver the next two decades, SAS's fortunes echoed those of its host city of Shanghai – from the prosperous days of the mid-‘20s and ‘30s to the challenging times of war in 1927, 1932, and 1937.\n\nIn 1941, faced with a declining foreign population and with a world war growing in scope, the SAS Board of Managers made the decision to close the school.\n\nBootleg SAS\n\nUpon hearing of the Board’s decision, a SAS teacher named Frank \"Unk\" Cheney declared the school must go on. He gathered remaining faculty, staff, and equipment and continued SAS under a series of different names. He called them \"Bootleg SAS.\"\n\nBootleg SAS operated out of the SAS campus on Hengshan Road, as well as in the Community Church across the street (still an active church at 53 Hengshan Road). In 1943, Cheney and most of the SAS population were forced into Chapei Civilian Assembly Camp, a Japanese-run internment camp. Still not content to see the school cease operations, Cheney packed thousands of books and brought them to internment camp so school could go on. Housed in an open-air shed with the most rudimentary supplies, the newest iteration of Bootleg SAS nevertheless opened with 222 students. At the end of World War II, the SAS Board of Managers vowed to re-open SAS in the fall of 1946. Unwilling to wait an additional year, Cheney opened yet another Bootleg SAS in the fall of 1945 to serve students until SAS could officially open the following fall.\n\nPost-WWII\n\nAt SAS, the period of 1946-49 saw the return of old traditions, sports and arts programs. The school and its campus were even featured in LIFE magazine. But by 1949, with China at the end of a civil war and Shanghai about to be invaded by the Communist Party, the SAS Board of Managers once again made the decision to close the school.\n\nWith Unk Cheney no longer on staff, a vice principal named Val Sundt was inspired to invoke the \"Spirit of Cheney\" and assure the school would once again continue.\n\nSundt founded the final Bootleg SAS in 1949–50, called Private American School. At the conclusion of the school year in May 1950, Sundt closed the school's doors, and the remaining SAS teachers and students heeded the warnings of the U.S. State Department and departed Shanghai.\n\nThe Re-founding\n\nIn January 1980, encouraged by the reformist efforts of Chinese leader Deng Xiaoping, the U.S. re-established its Consulate in Shanghai. One of the Consulate's first employees, economics advisor Tom Lauer, brought his wife, Linnea, and three children to Shanghai. Recognizing a need to educate the children of Consulate employees, the U.S. State Department asked Mrs. Lauer to restart Shanghai American School.\n\nSAS re-opened on the U.S. Consulate grounds on Huai Hai Road in September 1980. It remained there until outgrowing the space in 1989.\n\nThe Shanghai Girls #3 School, one of Shanghai's most reputable schools, with an alumni list that includes China's famous Soong sisters, agreed to share space with SAS. With a booming foreign population coming into Shanghai, a SAS education was in heavy demand and in spite of building additional buildings and floors, it wasn't long before SAS had again outgrown its space.\n\nPit Stop Campus Era\n\nBy the mid-1990s, SAS had decided to build not one but two purpose-built campuses – one on each side of Shanghai's Huangpu River. Before the campus construction could be completed, the school needed to move once again.\n\nThree temporary campuses were established. In Puxi, a semi-built cultural center in Zhudi Town was reassigned to the school. In Pudong, another cultural center – Huaxia – was selected to be SAS’ first presence on the Pudong side of the Huangpu River. A third temporary campus was founded in the Shanghai Centre on Nanjing Road to serve the youngest SAS attendees, though it soon proved unnecessary and closed after just one semester.\n\nFacilities during this time in SAS history were makeshift at best. The school's swim team held competitions at Shanghai's Holiday Inn, and storefronts across from campus served as classrooms. Ignoring the challenges of the times, the school laid plans for a brighter future. SAS became a co-founder of the region's Asia Pacific Athletic Conference (APAC), in spite of having no athletics facilities at the time.\n\nModern-day SAS\n\nIn 1998, the Pudong campus opened on the shores of the East China Sea. In 2000, the Puxi campus opened in the heart of the Minhang district. \n\nIn 2017, James Mikkelson, a veteran English teacher at the Puxi campus, was fired after being found in possession of pornography on his school computer and exchanging explicit messages with former students. He was also the subject of numerous sexual misconduct allegations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2006927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2006927", "title": "Prince Oskar of Prussia", "text": "Prince Oskar of Prussia\n\nPrince Oskar Karl Gustav Adolf of Prussia (\"Oskar Karl Gustav Adolf Prinz von Preußen\"; 27 July 1888 – 27 January 1958) was the fifth son of Wilhelm II, German Emperor and Augusta Victoria of Schleswig-Holstein-Sonderburg-Augustenburg.\n\nPrinz Oskar was born on July 27, 1888, a month after his father had become the German Emperor.\nPrinz Oskar was educated as a cadet at Plön, in his mother’s ancestral Schleswig-Holstein, as his brothers had been before him. He made the news in 1902 when he fractured his collar bone after a fall from the horizontal bars.\n\nDuring the early months of the First World War, he commanded Grenadierregiment \"König Wilhelm I.\" (2. Westpreussisches) Nr. 7 in the field as its colonel. Future fighter ace Manfred von Richthofen witnessed the 22 August 1914, attack on Virton, Belgium, and wrote of Prinz Oskar’s bravery and his inspirational leadership at the front of his regiment as they went into combat. For this action, Oskar earned the Iron Cross, Second Class. A month later, at Verdun, Oskar again led his men in a successful assault into heavy combat, and was awarded the Iron Cross, First Class. After this action, he also collapsed and had to be removed from the field. Awarded the wound badge for his injuries, he spent much of the fall of 1914 recovering from what was reported to be a heart condition. He eventually returned to duty and served on the Eastern Front, where he was again awarded the wound badge.\n\nIn the early 1920s, his name was listed with other members of the general staff or the royal family accused of war crimes, and was condemned in the Press for applying for a colonel’s pension from the Weimar Republic.\n\nDuring the 1930s, when the Hohenzollern family attempted to test the waters for a return to power through Nationalist Socialism, Oskar appears to have played along, and eventually was commissioned at Generalmajor zur Verfügung (rank equivalent to brigadier general, \"available for assignment\"), circa March 1, 1940. As the family fell out of favor with Hitler (with the exception of Oskar’s middle brother, August Wilhelm), it became evident that there would be no restoration of the monarchy through the Nazis.\n\nWith the early battlefield deaths of Oskar’s son (also named Oskar, killed in Poland, September 1939) and his nephew (Wilhelm, son of the Crown Prince, died of wounds received in France, May 1940) the German people harbored a newfound sentiment for the royal family amidst the totalitarian regime that was Nazi Germany. As a consequence, the majority of royals serving in the German Armed Forces appear to have had their commissions canceled, including Prinz Oskar.\n\nThe \"Johanniterorden\" (The Order of Saint John (Bailiwick of Brandenburg)) was a favorite of the Hohenzollerns, historically, and of Prince Oskar’s immediate family specifically. His father and uncle were members, and his brother, Eitel Friedrich, served as its Master of Knights (\"Herrenmeister\"), from 1907 to 1926. Prinz Oskar served as the thirty-fifth Master of Knights from Eitel Friedrich's resignation in 1926 until his death in 1958. Modern historians credit Prinz Oskar for saving the ancient order from oblivion during the cultural purges of the Nazi regime. It is from this struggle that he held his anti-Nazi sentiments. After his death in 1958, his youngest son, Prinz Wilhelm Karl, became his permanent successor. Prinz Oskar's grandson and namesake, Dr. Oskar Hohenzollern, is the current (thirty-seventh) Master of Knights.\n\nPrinz Oskar was married on 31 July 1914 to Countess Ina-Marie Helene Adele Elise von Bassewitz (27 January 1888 – 17 September 1973). On 27 July 1914, prior to the wedding, Ina Marie was granted the title \"Countess von Ruppin\". Both the civil and religious ceremonies took place at Schloß Bellevue near Berlin, Prussia. Initially the union was a morganatic marriage, but on 3 November 1919 was decreed to be dynastic in accordance with the house laws of the Royal House of Hohenzollern. Henceforth, from 21 June 1920, his wife was titled \"Princess of Prussia\" with the style \"Royal Highness\". The couple had four children:\n\n\nPrince Oskar, whose health declined during the final years of his life, died of stomach cancer in a clinic in Munich on 27 January 1958, on what would have been his father's 99th birthday.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2006930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2006930", "title": "Akiva Goldsman", "text": "Akiva Goldsman\n\nAkiva J. Goldsman (born July 7, 1962) is an American screenwriter, director, and producer known for his work on motion pictures and adaptations of popular novels.\n\nGoldsman's filmography as a screenwriter includes \"Batman Forever\" and its sequel \"Batman & Robin\"; \"I, Robot\"; \"I Am Legend\"; \"Cinderella Man,\" and numerous rewrites that are both credited and uncredited. He also wrote more than a dozen episodes for the science fiction television series \"Fringe\".\n\nIn 2002, Goldsman received the Oscar for Best Adapted Screenplay and the Golden Globe Award for Best Screenplay for the 2001 film \"A Beautiful Mind\", which also won the Academy Award for Best Picture.\n\nIn 2006, Goldsman re-teamed with \"A Beautiful Mind\" director Ron Howard to adapt Dan Brown's novel \"The Da Vinci Code\" for Howard's film. He also wrote the screenplay for its 2009 prequel \"Angels & Demons\".\n\nAkiva Goldsman was born in New York to Jewish parents and raised in Brooklyn Heights. His parents, Tev Goldsman and Mira Rothenberg, were both clinical child psychologists who ran a group home for emotionally disturbed children. After graduating from St. Ann's School which is also in Brooklyn Heights, he received his bachelor's degree from Wesleyan University and attended the graduate fiction writing program at New York University. Many of his connections were made at St. Ann's.\n\nGoldsman has a production company at Warner Bros. named Weed Road Pictures.\n\nGoldsman produced the Universal Pictures feature \"Lone Survivor\", from writer/director Peter Berg, based on the book \"\" by Marcus Luttrell. It tells the story of Luttrell's Navy SEAL team in 2005 Afghanistan, on a mission to kill a terrorist leader. The movie starred Mark Wahlberg, Emile Hirsch, Ben Foster and Taylor Kitsch, and was released in 2013.\n\nGoldsman made his feature film directing debut with \"Winter's Tale\", a film adaption of the Mark Helprin novel, The principal cast consisted of Colin Farrell, Russell Crowe, Jessica Brown Findlay, Jennifer Connelly, Will Smith and William Hurt. The film was released on February 14, 2014. He also directed the horror thriller film \"Stephanie\" (2017), with Frank Grillo in the leading role, and co-wrote and produced the film adaptation of Stephen King's \"The Dark Tower\" series, which was released on August 4, 2017, and was one of Goldsman's post Apotheosis films.\n\nIn June 2015, Paramount Pictures announced that Goldsman would head a team of writers and filmmakers to create a multifilm cinematic universe branching out from Hasbro's \"Transformers\" franchise.\n\nGoldsman was revealed in September 2018 to have been on the writing staff for \"\", revolving around the later years of the character of Jean-Luc Picard.\n\nIn 2008, Goldsman joined the first season crew of the Fox horror/mystery series \"Fringe\" as writer, director, and consulting producer. The first episode Goldsman directed and wrote was \"Bad Dreams\". In its fifth season, Goldsman remained a consulting producer. Episodes he contributed to included:\n\nGoldsman's second wife, film producer Rebecca Spikings-Goldsman, died of a heart attack on July 6, 2010, at the age of 42. Rebecca was the daughter of producer Barry Spikings.\n\nIn 2012, Akiva met his third wife Joann Richter. The couple were married in 2014 and have two daughters, and divide their time between Los Angeles and New York.\n\nIn 2016, it was announced that Goldsman would script an adaptation of Isaac Asimov's \"The Caves of Steel\". Its final release date is still unknown. In July 2017, Paramount Pictures announced plans to make a film adaptation of the novel \"Rainbow Six\" by Tom Clancy with Goldsman as producer.\n\n"}
{"id": "2006943", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2006943", "title": "Human Behaviour", "text": "Human Behaviour\n\n\"Human Behaviour\" is a song by Icelandic recording artist Björk, released in June 1993 as the lead single from her debut studio album \"Debut\". Produced by Björk's longtime collaborator Nellee Hooper, it reflects upon human nature and emotion from a non-human animal's point of view. The song and music video were inspired by British broadcaster and naturalist David Attenborough.\n\nCritics praised \"Human Behaviour\" and called it a highlight of \"Debut\". The song was an underground smash that peaked at number two on the dance charts and reached number 36 on the UK Singles Chart. Its music video was directed by Michel Gondry and is the first time he and Björk collaborated. The music video, like the song, is a story about the relation between humans and animals from the animal's point of view.\n\n\"Human Behaviour\" was written by Nellee Hooper and Björk, and was produced by Hooper. The song was first written in 1988 when Björk was still the leading singer of The Sugarcubes, but she decided not to release it with the band. \"Human Behaviour\" features a \"bouncing riff\" sampled from Antônio Carlos Jobim, with \"its syncopated beat consigned to a venerable orchestral instrument, the timpani.\"\n\nThe song was inspired by David Attenborough documentaries and by the relation between humans and animals. Björk explained to \"Rolling Stone\", talking about the inspiration for the song: \"'Human Behaviour' is an animal's point of view on humans. And the animals are definitely supposed to win in the end.\" On a recent question and answer session with fans on \"The Guardian\" website, Björk revealed more information about the writing of the song: \"I wrote it I was referring to my childhood and probably talking about how I felt more comfortable on my own walking outside singing and stuff than hanging out with humans...\"\n\nThe song was also inspired by the riff from Ray Brown Orchestra's \"Go Down Dying\".\n\nThis is the first song on the \"Isobel song cycle\", a transcendental cycle in Björk's discography which goes from \"Human Behaviour\" to \"Wanderlust\" (2007).\n\nThe B-side contained in the cassette edition of the single is the reggae-influenced \"Atlantic\", which was produced and written by Björk. Its lyrics talks about Björk's family: \"My son has eight grandmothers and eight grandfathers and it's about the love and the complications of that\".\n\nThe music video was directed by Michel Gondry, and this was the first time he and Björk collaborated. Björk talked about the video in an interview with \"Rolling Stone\":\n\nThe video is a loose take on the children's tale \"Goldilocks and the Three Bears\", with visuals inspired by Yuri Norstein's animated film \"Hedgehog in the Fog\". The video has several elements that are present in Gondry's first feature film Human Nature.\n\nAs the video starts, a car approaches a hedgehog while the animal tries to cross a country road. The video's style is a surreal, almost Papier-mâché style with a combination of practical effects and forced perspective shifts. Images of a toy-made bear approaching a human Hunter in a threatening way are shown. As Björk starts to sing, she appears in a small cabin while sitting at a table, seemingly eating. Meanwhile, in the forest, the hedgehog manages not to get hit by the car and approaches the Hunter, who is now lying on the ground.\n\nAs Björk continues to sing, she appears walking in the forest, seemingly followed by the bear. A frame shows a nest full of Björk-like humans trapped in a pupa.\nWhen the bear and the singer meet, the animal makes the motion of roaring at her. She starts to fly through the forest, and during the flight she clings to a tree. The tree collapses, she falls down near the Hunter still lying supine on the ground, and she appears on the ground having the same dimensions of the hedgehog. Then, the situation of the opening frames is repeated, as Björk tries to cross the road and manages not to get hit by the car, driven by the Bear. In the following scenes, she sings in a river in the middle of the forest. While she contemplates the sky, the Moon appears to emanate pulsations, and the perspective shifts to what appears to be a moth. Now on the moon, the singer is shown dressed as an astronaut, while she's planting a Soviet flag.\n\nBjörk appears to fall down from the Moon, and seemingly falls down in the Bear's throat, however she keeps singing even in the animal's stomach. During the breakdown, she dances in her hut tapping and looking at a bulb, while a moth falls down in her plate. Scenes of the bear attacking and dragging the Hunter are shown. As the video fades out, the singer continues singing in the stomach of the bear.\n\nThe video was well received by music critics, which complimented its originality. Critics praised also the chemistry between Gondry and Björk: \"The imagery of 'Human Behaviour' is a web of various physical, in-camera effects that Gondry uses throughout his film career. Models, composites, screen projections (all featured in image eight), and lighting (see image two) abound in Björk's emotional woodlands. Colors are deep and saturated. In addition to his unique perceptions of Björk's music, Gondry's art of storytelling are unique to the music video world. 'Human Behaviour' is a story of predator and prey. In search of food, a bear clomps through a forest in the evening. A rugged hunter stalks the woods in pursuit of his game. Björk, as narrator and character(s) of her own story, flees from the bear. Numerous times the bear almost succeeds: in one attempt he drives a car, and almost hits Björk. In the end, Björk flies down the throat of the bear, and rests in his stomach. The hunter also meets his demise. The video is a classic; a vivid story rendered in Gondry and Björk's surreal playground.\"\n\nIn 1993, Rolling Stone included the Music Video in \"The Top 100 Music Video of all Time\" list, at number 96.\n\nThe video received six nominations for the MTV Video Music Awards of 1994 including Best Female Video, Best New Artist in a Video, Breakthrough Video, Best Direction, Best Special Effects and Best Art Direction, winning none. The video was also nominated for a Grammy Award for Best Music Video, Short Form losing to Peter Gabriel's \"Steam\".\n\nIn 2009, the video was nominated for another MTV Video Music Awards in the Best Video (That Should Have Won a Moonman) category, losing to \"Sabotage\", by the Beastie Boys.\n\nThe song was well received by music critics. For AllMusic's Heather Pares, the song's \"dramatic percussion provides a perfect showcase for her wide-ranging voice\". The \"New York Times\" described the lyrics of \"Human Behaviour\" as a \"parallel between the beastliness of humanity and the bestiality of nature.\n\n\nBjörk promoted the song by a series of TV appearances. She performed the song and \"Big Time Sensuality\" on MTV's Most Wanted while dressed in a pink skirt and yellow tee, accompanied by a Hammond Organ and Tablas. On 13 October 1993 she performed a set of three songs, including \"Come to Me\" and \"The Anchor Song\" on \"Planeta Rock\". The song was part of her MTV Unplugged setlist, and was performed with a harpsichord solely. She also performed the song and was also interviewed on an October 1993 episode of the then-new talk show Late Night with Conan O’Brien. At the 1994 Roskilde Festival, Björk joined Underworld on stage to perform the Underworld remix of the song.\n\nBjörk performed the song in all of her tour. During the Vespertine World Tour, the song featured a more electronic arrangement accompanied by a more classical Orchestra. During the Volta Tour, the song was performed only once and featured a brass arrangement. She performed a new flute arrangement of the song during the Utopia Tour.\n\n\"For a complete list of official releases :\" \"Official Björk's Discography at 77island\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2006950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2006950", "title": "Karl Wiedergott", "text": "Karl Wiedergott\n\nKarl Wiedergott (born Karl Aloysious Treaton; February 8, 1969) is a German-American actor. He is noted for his voice work on the Fox sitcom \"The Simpsons\" since 1998, voicing background characters and some celebrities such as John Travolta and Bill Clinton. Wiedergott has supplied various voices on more than 200 episodes, his most recent appearance being in 2010.\n\nA working actor throughout his career—on stage, in film, and on television—Wiedergott decided in 2005 to take a break from auditioning and concentrate solely on his work for \"The Simpsons\".\n"}
{"id": "2006956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2006956", "title": "Play Dead (song)", "text": "Play Dead (song)\n\n\"Play Dead\" is a song by Icelandic singer Björk, and was released as the only single from the soundtrack of the 1993 crime drama \"The Young Americans\". The song was not included in the first edition of \"Debut\" but was later included as a bonus track, and the album was re-issued October 11, 1993. The song was written by Jah Wobble, Björk featuring David Arnold, and was produced by Cannon, Arnold, receiving additional production and mixing by Tim Simenon. The song, inspired by the main character of the film, was released in October 1993.\n\nA mainly trip hop-influenced track, the song charted in the top-20 in the United Kingdom, Ireland, the Netherlands, Poland, Denmark, Iceland, Norway and Sweden. An accompanying music video was released, featuring images from the film. \"Play Dead\" was included in Björk's 2002 greatest hits album \"Greatest Hits\".\n\nThe song was co-written by Jah Wobble, Björk featuring David Arnold. Björk was asked to write the melody and lyrics for the song, while Wobble wrote the bass part and Arnold composed the score, which Björk described as a \"greatest hits of what's in the film\".\n\nBjörk described the writing as \"very difficult\" because \"the character in the film was suffering and going through hardcore tough times and at the time I was at my happiest\". To help her in the writing, she asked the film's director, Danny Cannon, to write her a whole page of phrases that represented the emotions of the characters in the film, but she used only one line that Cannon wrote: \"Sometimes, it's just like sinking\", and still she changed it to \"It's sometimes just like sleeping\" in the actual lyrics.\n\nThe song is underscored by moody strings and its lyrics about acting numb to prevent emotional pain. Björk wrote it from the main character's point of view: \"In the film, he had a girlfriend who just wanted him to be happy and in love and he just couldn't get his head around it. It was just me trying to imagine what he would say to her. Things he never actually said to her in the film but things he would have said to her\".\n\nProduced by David Arnold and Danny Cannon, the song was originally a non-album track recorded for the film \"The Young Americans\" and intended as a single-only release, but eventually it was added as a bonus track to international pressings of Björk's album \"Debut\" because Björk's manager Derek Birkett convinced her to add the track. Björk also sings on the tracks \"Opening Titles\" and \"Leaving London\" on the soundtrack CD of the film. In both the film and soundtrack, \"Leaving London\" crescendoes into \"Play Dead\" as a single arrangement. In both the album and the single version, the song is actually a remix by Tim Simenon. After the addition of \"Play Dead\" on \"Debut\", about 100 people who already owned the album without the bonus track, called the record company and complained, demanding to be given new records as compensation.\n\nThe drums which the song is structured by are taken from the beginning of the 1977 song \"Footsteps in the Dark\" by The Isley Brothers, most famously used on Ice Cube's \"It Was A Good Day\", which was released earlier that year.\n\nDescribed by Derek Birkett as \"one of the best things Björk’s ever done\", the track was well received by music critics. Mal Pearchey of \"Vox\" described the song as \"incredibly sophisticated after the eclectic drama of The Sugarcubes\". \"Music & Media\" noted that \"The clamour of Iceland's siren is in the air again, beautifully floating above superb rhythm tracks. Highly original; there's nothing like this on the entire planet.\" \"The Tech\" journalist Fred Choi, while reviewing \"Greatest Hits\" stated that the song is \"compelling but lesser-known\". On a similar note, Alexis Petridis of \"Blender\" stated that \"Play Dead\" \"boasts a chorus that’s both original and implausibly epic\".\n\nThe music video was directed by Danny Cannon, who also directed \"The Young Americans\". In the video, Björk performs the song in an empty bar that is shown in the film. Her footage is intercut with scenes from the film that range from tenderness to violence.\n\nThe video was criticized because of its simplicity, some citing it lacks of the visual appearances usually offered by Björk. The video has been said to follow \"the trends of MTV\".\n\nBjörk performed the song in selected dates of her Debut Tour, and usually sang it during her Homogenic Tour, accompanied by a larger ensemble of strings. Björk's performance at the Union Chapel with the Brodsky Quartet was met with enthusiasm by \"The Guardian\" journalist Maddy Costa, that described the performance as a \"Heavenly Experience\" and, commenting the song's performance, stated that \"reclaiming \"Play Dead\" from ad-land, the subdued volume and the Brodskys’ bristling tone brought out the fierceness of Björk’s words\".\n\nBjörk also performed the song during her Vespertine World Tour. The song has not been performed live since then.\n\n\nA cover of the song appears on the special edition of the album \"Into\" by the Finnish band The Rasmus. It is available on many of their singles as well, including \"Madness\". In 2007, The Swedish band Pain covered the song on the album \"Psalms of Extinction\".\n\nA modified version of the song was also used in 1995 on the launch advert for the new Vauxhall Vectra, with the tagline \"Designed for the next millennium\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2006958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2006958", "title": "Clear Creek Independent School District", "text": "Clear Creek Independent School District\n\nClear Creek Independent School District (CCISD) is a school district based in League City, Texas (USA). The district serves most of the Clear Lake Area and some other neighboring parts of the Houston metropolitan area. CCISD is the 29th largest school district in Texas, spanning 103 square miles and serving over 41,000 students. The district operates 44 distinct campuses, consisting of 6 composite high schools, 10 intermediate schools, 26 elementary schools, and 3 alternative campuses.\n\nSince January 2008, the Superintendent of Schools has been Dr. Greg Smith.\n\nClear Creek ISD currently operates two football stadiums, Veterans Memorial Stadium and Challenger Columbia Stadium, both of which serve all five of the district's 6A high schools.\n\nClear Creek ISD was formed in 1948 when the districts of Kemah, League City, Seabrook, and Webster were consolidated, deriving its name from nearby Clear Creek, which forms Clear Lake, one of the few natural lakes in Texas. CCISD continued operating Webster High School until Clear Creek High School opened in 1957. The district opened Clear Lake High School in 1972, Clear Brook High School in 1989, Clear Springs High School in 2007, and Clear Falls High School in 2010.\n\nIn the 2000s, rising real estate costs in Galveston forced many families to move to other areas, including League City. This meant an influx of children out of Galveston ISD and into other school districts like Clear Creek ISD.\n\nOn May 11, 2013 the district was successful in a vote securing $367 million to \"...rebuild or improve 40+ year old schools; address student safety, security systems, repairs and enrollment growth; construct or expand co-curricular and extracurricular facilities for growth in programs; and improve wireless infrastructure and access to technology for 21st century learning.\"\n\nOn May 6, 2017 the district was successful in a vote to approve a bond with largely the same purpose stated in 2013 \"...to build new or rebuild schools, replace portables with permanent additions, renovate aging schools to bring them up to today’s learning standards, improve school and bus safety through the purchase of surveillance equipment and buses.\" This second bond in 2017 for $487 million resulted in a 4-year total of US$854 million of funding over and above that allocated by the state for this purpose.\n\nCCISD is just the 29th largest school district in Texas. The total enrollment for the district is currently 42,008 students. According to the last CCISD reported actual financials (2017-2018), the annual per student cost is over $12,000. For comparison, the full year (2 semester) tuition and fees to attend Texas A&M University in pursuit of a bachelor's degree as an in-state undergraduate is $11,036.\n\nCCISD serves the following municipalities in their entirety:\n\nCCISD serves portions of the following municipalities:\n\nIn addition, some unincorporated sections of Harris County and Galveston County (including a portion of Bacliff) are zoned to CCISD.\n\n\n\n\n, Clear Creek ISD was ranked as an \"exemplary\" district (the highest ranking) by the Texas Education Agency. For comparison, 29% of all schools in Texas rated by the TEA were ranked as \"exemplary\".\n\nAmong the high schools, Clear Horizons Early College High School and Clear Lake High School (both in the Clear Lake City area of Houston) were ranked as \"exemplary\" with the others ranked as \"recognized\". On the Texas Assessment of Knowledge and Skills examinations, 97% of students passed in reading, 97% passed in writing, 98% passed in social studies, 93% passed in mathematics, and 92% passed in science. the high school graduation rate was 97%.\n\n"}
{"id": "2006962", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2006962", "title": "Tai Nuea language", "text": "Tai Nuea language\n\nTai Nuea (Tai Nüa: ) (also called Tai Nɯa, Tai Nüa, Dehong Dai, or Chinese Shan; own name: \"Tai2 Lə6\", which means \"upper Tai\" or \"northern Tai\", or ; Chinese: \"Dǎinàyǔ\" 傣那语 or \"Déhóng Dǎiyǔ\" 德宏傣语; , or , ) is one of the languages spoken by the Dai people in China, especially in the Dehong Dai and Jingpo Autonomous Prefecture in the southwest of Yunnan province. It is closely related to the other Tai languages. Speakers of this language across the border in Myanmar are known as Shan. It should not be confused with Tai Lü (Xishuangbanna Dai). There are also \"Tai Nuea\" speakers in Thailand.\n\nMost Tai Nuea people call themselves ', which means 'upper Tai' or 'northern Tai'. Note that this is different from Tai Lue, which is pronounced ' in Tai Nuea.\n\nDehong is a transliteration of the term ', where ' means 'bottom, under, the lower part (of)', and \"\" means 'the Hong River' (more widely known as the Salween River or Nujiang 怒江 in Chinese) (Luo 1998).\n\nZhou (2001:13) classifies Tai Nuea into the Dehong (德宏) and Menggeng (孟耿) dialects. Together, they add up to a total of 541,000 speakers.\n\n\n\"Ethnologue\" also recognizes Tai Long of Laos as a separate language. It is spoken by 4,800 people (as of 2004) in Luang Prabang Province, Laos.\n\nTai Nuea is a tonal language with a very limited inventory of syllables with no consonant clusters. 16 syllable-initial consonants can be combined with 84 syllable finals and six tones.\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki> occur in loanwords\n\n<br>\n\nTai Nuea has ten vowels and 13 diphthongs:\n\nTai Nuea has six tones:\n\nSyllables with p, t, k as final consonants can have only one of three tones (1., 3., or 5.).\n\nThe Tai Le script is closely related to other Southeast-Asian writing systems such as the Thai alphabet and is thought to date back to the 14th century.\n\nThe original Tai Nuea spelling did not generally mark tones and failed to distinguish several vowels. It was reformed to make these distinctions, and diacritics were introduced to mark tones. The resulting writing system was officially introduced in 1956. In 1988, the spelling of tones was reformed; special tone letters were introduced instead of the earlier Latin diacritics.\n\nThe modern alphabet has a total of 35 letters, including the five tone letters. It is encoded under the name \"Tai Le\" in the Basic Multilingual Plane of Unicode at U+1950-U+1974.\nThe Tai Nuea numerals are similar to Myanmar numerals; they are in fact unified with Myanmar's numerals in Unicode (U+1040-U+1049) despite some glyph variations.\n\nThe transcription below is given according to the Unicode tables.\n\nConsonants that are not followed by a vowel letter are pronounced with the inherent vowel [a]. Other vowels are indicated with the following letters:\n\nDiphthongs are formed by combining some vowel letters with the consonant [w] and some vowel letters with ᥭ [ai]/[j].\n\nIn the Thai and Tai Lü writing systems, the tone value in the pronunciation of a written syllable depends on the tone class of the initial consonant, vowel length and syllable structure. In contrast, the Tai Nuea writing system has a very straightforward spelling of tones, with one letter (or diacritic) for each tone.\n\nExamples in the table show the syllable [ta] in different tones, in old (1956) and new (1988) spellings.\n\nThe sixth tone (mid level) is not marked. And if a checked syllable having the fifth tone, it is also not marked.\n\nTai Nuea has official status in some parts of Yunnan (China), where it is used on signs and in education. Yunnan People's Radio Station (\"Yúnnán rénmín guǎngbō diàntái\" 云南人民广播电台) broadcasts in Tai Nuea. On the other hand, however, very little printed material is published in Tai Nuea in China. However, many signs of roads and stores in Mangshi are in Tai Nuea.\n\nIn Thailand, a collection of 108 proverbs was published with translations into Thai and English.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2006963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2006963", "title": "Savage River (Maryland)", "text": "Savage River (Maryland)\n\nThe Savage River is a river in Garrett County, Maryland, and is the first major tributary of the North Branch Potomac River from its source. The river was named for 18th century surveyor John Savage.\n\nThe U.S. Army Corps of Engineers maintains the Savage River Dam for flood control and recreation. It has trout fishing for brown, rainbow, brook and sometimes cutthroat trout.\n\nThe last of the river, from the Savage River Dam to its confluence with the Potomac at Bloomington, Maryland, is a destination for whitewater paddling and slalom racing, on the infrequent occasion when sufficient water is released from the dam. There were three one-day recreational releases in 2011, two in June and one in September.\n\nThe Savage has been used for the U.S. Olympic Trials and was the site of the 1989 ICF Canoe Slalom World Championships on June 24–25. The usual put-in for whitewater boats is below the dam, where the highway crosses the river. The slalom racing section begins further downstream, below the Piedmont Dam, and ends downstream at the viewing stand above the pedestrian suspension bridge.\n\nThe 1989 race was the first time the Slalom World Championships were held in the United States. The next occasion was a quarter century later in 2014, when they were held on artificial whitewater at the nearby Adventure Sports Center International, constructed in 2007 as a more accessible alternative to the seldom-watered Savage.\n\nThe average gradient for the Savage River's whitewater section is 75 feet/mile (1.4%), with sections at 100 feet/mile (1.9%), giving the rapids a whitewater class III to III + at the typical recreational release of . The rapids are fast and continuous, with very few eddies or calm spots.\n"}
{"id": "2006970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2006970", "title": "Propalaeotherium", "text": "Propalaeotherium\n\nPropalaeotherium was an early genus of equid endemic to Europe and Asia during the Early Eocene.\n\n\"Propalaeotherium\" was named by Paul Gervais: its name means \"before \"Palaeotherium\"\". It was considered a member of Palaeotheriidae by Hooker (1986). A 2004 study found it to be an equid instead.\n\nThe species \"P. parvulum\" and \"P. messelensis\" have been assigned to the equid genus \"Eurohippus\".\n\nPropalaeotheres were small animals, ranging from 30–60 cm at the shoulder (2.9 to 5.9 hands) weighing just . They looked rather like very small tapirs. They had no hooves, having instead several small nail-like hooflets. They were herbivorous, and the amazingly well-preserved Messel fossils show that they ate berries, and leaf matter picked up from the forest floor.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2006971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2006971", "title": "Kawasaki Ninja ZX-6R", "text": "Kawasaki Ninja ZX-6R\n\nThe Kawasaki Ninja ZX-6R is a \"600 cc\" class motorcycle in the Ninja sport bike series from the Japanese manufacturer Kawasaki.\nIt was introduced in 1995, and has been constantly updated throughout the years in response to new products from Honda, Suzuki, and Yamaha. The ZX series is what was known as the Ninja line of Kawasaki motorcycles in the 1980s and still carries the name today.\n\nKawasaki introduced the ZX-6R in 1995 with very similar looks and features like the 1994 introduced ZX-9R, including the ram-air intake that had been developed by Kawasaki since the 1990 ZX-11 (ZZ-R1100). The first ZX-6R had a dry weight of , wet weight of , and was capable of accelerating in 3.6 seconds.\n\nThere was a major revamp of the ZX-6R in 1998 with the Launch of the G series. The G series saw no increase in displacement but power went from 100 BHP to 108 BHP thanks to the newly designed airbox. The fairing was revamped, but it retained a similar design for the headlight, air intakes and windscreen. In 2000, the first J series replaced the G, increasing power to 112 BHP by increasing the compression ratio from 11.8:1 to 12.8:1. The J series sported a couple of modernisations including a 180 section rear tire, second headlight, uprated generator and stick coils (coil on plug) replacing the traditional coil with HT lead.\n\nWith strong competition from Honda's CBR600F4i, Suzuki's GSX-R600, and Yamaha's YZF-R6, Kawasaki decided on an unusual move for the late 2002 models. They increased the capacity of the traditional motor to with the ZX-6R A1P. This version used the J series bodywork with the only notable differences being the \"636\" stickers on the fairing. For riders who needed bikes for displacement-restricted racing, Kawasaki also made available a limited production version, the Ninja ZX-6RR, but the ZX-6R would be their main mass production middleweight sport bike.\n\nIn 2003, there were a number of changes to the ZX-6R, or ZX636 as it is often referred. The engine was fuel injected and engine speed was raised around 500 RPM which resulted in a slight gain in power. Radial-mounted four-piston brakes replaced the previous six-piston brakes and the front forks were now inverted. Chassis improvements resulted in higher rigidity and less weight. An all digital instrument panel was also introduced and a larger ram-air intake inlet moved to the center over the headlight, running through the headstock. The bike, designation B1H, carried over to the 2004 model year with just color scheme changes. The ZX-6RR won the Supersport category award for Masterbike 2004 and placed third overall.\n\nIn 2005, Kawasaki again revamped the ZX-6R. Engine speed increased again by 1,000 RPM resulting in at 12,250 RPM. The frame and swingarm were updated, but the main changes from its predecessor lay in the design. The aluminum frame was now painted flat black, fairings were more round, and integrated turn signals were used (euro model). The exhaust was now centrally under the seat (a configuration commonly referred to as an undertail exhaust). Most of these changes were mirrored in the 599 cc ZX-6RR. For the second year in a row, the ZX-6RR again won the Supersport category award for Masterbike 2005 and placed third overall. The bike carried over to the 2006 model year with minor suspension changes and new color schemes.\n\nAfter four years of offering their 636 cc ZX-6R for street use and an entirely separate 599 cc ZX-6RR for displacement-restricted racing classes, Kawasaki offered only one ZX-6R for 2007, and it displaced 599 cc. Previous years of the ZX-6R's engines were all built from the same basic design, but the all-new engine for 2007 was redesigned from the crankcase up. In following with what their competitors had already been doing, Kawasaki's new engine featured a stacked gear arrangement in which the crankshaft, primary drive and countershaft are placed in a triangular format for a shorter, more compact powerplant. Now about 40 mm smaller in both length and width and it is said to yield greater cornering clearance. By using a former 125 cc Grand Prix racer as the ZX-6R's chief development rider, Tomomi Manako, Kawasaki claims a focus has been put on track usage. Frame, swingarm, suspension, brakes, and body were completely redesigned and the bike shares very few parts from the previous model. The ZX-6R was carried over to the 2008 model year with just color scheme changes.\n\nFor 2009, Kawasaki dramatically changed the appearance of the ZX-6R to match the more angular look of the ZX-10R. Kawasaki claims the new ZX-6R is 10 kg lighter than the previous model. The greatest changes for 2009 were the redesign of the exhaust, now carried low and not requiring the thick under-seat construction of 2008 and especially the introduction of the Showa Big Piston Fork (BPF) suspension for a more progressive brake-dive. The 2010 ZX-6R is changing once more with an improved engine and slipper clutch. The exhaust pre-chamber has more space and also limits exhaust noise giving the rider a smoother ride. New double bore intake funnels features two available heights which gives performance upgrades in both high and low engine speeds. The front seat is now lower.\n\nFor 2013, Kawasaki reintroduced the ZX-6R 636, while still continuing to sell the regular, 599 cc 2009-2012 ZX-6R at a lower price.\n\nThe 2013 ZX-6R 636 is a brand new bike. Engine displacement has again been increased to 636 cc, with two fuel maps available to choose via a switch on the handlebars. The new version has increased torque and horsepower, and the increased performance is apparent at lower RPM. While the tail is to the one in the 2009-2012 model, it features new front and side fairings, new dash, new frame, new Showa BPF-SFF front suspension, Kawasaki Traction Control (KTRC) with three modes (sport, city and rain) as standard equipment, and Kawasaki Intelligent anti-lock Brake System (KIBS) available as option.\n\nIn Showa's Big Piston Fork - Separate Function Fork (BPF-SFF) suspension, the left leg bar a bigger and stronger spring than the right one, with regulated pre-load. The right bar has bigger oil damper section, with regulated rebound and compression damping. According to the manufacturer, this asymmetric design provides a reduction of the friction inside the fork, significant mass loss and more friendly response of suspension. The KTRC system uses manipulation of the ignition timing on all 3 traction control modes, while mode 3 (rain mode) also uses a separate throttle controlled by the on-board electronics, to allow faster reaction for wheel over-spin on slippery surfaces. Traction control and power modes can be adjusted or turned off whenever the throttle is closed, even while riding the bike. The bike is sold without a steering damper, as customer complaints about the OEM steering damper on previous models prompted Kawasaki to discontinue this feature on subsequent models.\n\nThe ZX-6R 636 for 2019 has some updates consisting of: Euro4 compliance, KQS quickshifter (up only), updated bodywork and seat, LED headlights and updated dashboard. The claimed horsepower also sees a slight drop from the 2018 model's to .\n\nThrough the 2020 model year, Kawasaki sold only the displacement Ninja ZX-6R in most markets, while in Japan the version continues to be sold alongside the 636 since the model year 2003 onwards.\n\nKenan Sofuoğlu helped Kawasaki to win both the riders and manufacturers title during the 2015 Supersport World Championship season.\n\n"}
{"id": "2006972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2006972", "title": "Prince August Wilhelm of Prussia", "text": "Prince August Wilhelm of Prussia\n\nPrince August Wilhelm Heinrich Günther Viktor of Prussia (29 January 1887 – 25 March 1949), called \"Auwi\", was the fourth son of Wilhelm II, German Emperor by his first wife, Augusta Victoria of Schleswig-Holstein. He was a vocal supporter of Nazism and of Adolf Hitler.\n\nHe was born in the Potsdamer Stadtschloss when his grandfather was still the Crown Prince of Prussia. He spent his youth with his siblings at the New Palace, also in Potsdam, and his school days at the Prinzenhaus in Plön. Later, he studied at the universities of Bonn, Berlin and Strasbourg. He received his doctorate in political science in 1907 \"in an exceedingly dubious manner\", as one author describes it.\n\nPrince August Wilhelm married his cousin Princess Alexandra Victoria of Schleswig-Holstein-Sonderburg-Glücksburg (21 April 1887 Germany – 15 April 1957 France) on 22 October 1908 at the Berliner Stadtschloss. The couple had planned to take up residence in Schönhausen Palace in Berlin, but changed their mind when August Wilhelm's father decided to leave his son the Villa Liegnitz in the Sanssouci Park. On 26 December 1912 their only child, Prince Alexander Ferdinand of Prussia (died 12 June 1985), was born. Their Potsdam residence developed into a meeting place for artists and scholars. \n\nDuring the First World War, August Wilhelm was made district administrator (\"Landrat\") of the district of Ruppin; his office and residence was now Schloss Rheinsberg. His personal adjutant Hans Georg von Mackensen, with whom he had been close friends since his youth, played an important role in his life. These \"pronounced homophilic tendencies\" contributed to the failure of his marriage to Princess Alexandra Victoria. They never undertook a formal divorce due to the opposition of August Wilhelm's father, Kaiser Wilhelm II.\n\nInitially, many Allied and German leaders favored transitioning Germany to a constitutional monarchy with August Wilhelm as either Emperor or regent for one of Crown Prince Wilhelm's children, although this possibility was quickly precluded when Philipp Scheidemann was forced by the pressures of the German Revolution to declare a republic. Winston Churchill, who at the time served as Secretary of State for War in the Lloyd George War Cabinet, blamed the failure to retain the monarchy for the political instability that would plague the Weimar Republic.\n\nAfter the end of the war, the couple separated and formally divorced in March 1920. August Wilhelm was awarded custody of their son. After his divorce and the marriage of his friend Hans Georg von Mackensen to Winifred von Neurath, the daughter of Konstantin von Neurath, August Wilhelm lived a reclusive life in his villa in Potsdam. He took drawing lessons with Arthur Kampf, and the sale of his pictures secured him an additional source of income.\n\nAugust Wilhelm joined the conservative nationalist veterans group (\"English:\" \"The Steel helmet\"). In the following years he had increasing contact with the Nazi Party (NSDAP). To the unease of his family and against his father's will, he joined the \"dangerous, revolutionary\" NSDAP on 1 April 1930, whereupon he received the low membership number 24, for symbolic reasons. In November 1931, he was accepted into the paramilitary (SA) with the rank of . His involvement with the NSDAP and his adoration of Adolf Hitler made August Wilhelm often the subject of mockery by the left-wing press (who gave him the nickname , or \"Auwi the Little Brown Shirt\"), politicians (the French Ambassador André François-Poncet called him , i.e. \"Hans the Brown Sausage\"), and from National Socialists themselves (Joseph Goebbels referred to him as a \"good-natured, but slightly boy\").\n\nAs a representative of the erstwhile Hohenzollern Dynasty, August Wilhelm was deliberately used by the Nazis to gain votes in elections such as the lead candidate of the NSDAP for election to the Prussian parliament in April 1932 or as an election speaker alongside Hitler, whom he accompanied on flights across Germany at the same time. Through his appearances at mass rallies of the NSDAP, he addressed himself to sections of the population that were lukewarm towards National Socialism and convinced them \"that Hitler was not a threat, but a benefactor of the German people and the German Empire\".\n\nIn 1933 August Wilhelm was given a position within the Free State of Prussia, and became a member of the German Reichstag. However, after the abolition of the Weimar Republic with the passing of the Enabling Act of 1933, and the establishment of the dictatorship of the Third Reich, the Nazis no longer needed the former prince, who himself had secretly hoped \"that Hitler would one day hoist him or his son Alexander up to the vacant throne of the Kaiser\". Thus in spring 1934 he was denied direct access to Hitler and by the summer after the Night of the Long Knives, he found himself in the wilderness politically. This did not, however, reduce his adoration of Hitler.\n\nOne high-profile visit took August Wilhelm to the Passau Hall of the Nibelungs ().\n\nOn 30 June 1939 he was made an \"SA-\"Obergruppenführer, the second highest rank in the SA, but after making derogatory remarks about Joseph Goebbels in private, he was denounced in 1942. From then on, he was completely sidelined and was also banned from making public speeches.\n\nAt the beginning of February 1945, in the company of the former Crown Princess Cecilie, August Wilhelm fled the approaching Red Army, going from Potsdam to Kronberg to take refuge with his aunt Princess Margaret of Prussia, a sister of his father.\n\nAt the end of the Second World War, on 8 May 1945, August Wilhelm was arrested by the U.S. Army and imprisoned in Ludwigsburg. At his denazification trial () in 1948, he was asked if he had since repudiated National Socialism, and replied: \"I beg your pardon?\" He was thus categorized as \"incriminated\" by the denazification process and sentenced to two and a half years' hard labour. However, as he had been confined in the Ludwigsburg internment camp since 1945, he was considered to have served his sentence.\n\nImmediately after his release, new proceedings were instituted against August Wilhelm. A court in Potsdam, in the Soviet occupation zone, issued an arrest warrant against him, but soon after that he became seriously ill and died at a hospital in Stuttgart at the age of 62. He was buried in Langenburg in the cemetery of the princes of Hohenlohe-Langenburg.\n\nWith his wife, Princess Alexandra of Schleswig-Holstein-Sonderburg-Glücksburg, Prince August Wilhelm had one son:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2006978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2006978", "title": "Prince Adalbert of Prussia (1884–1948)", "text": "Prince Adalbert of Prussia (1884–1948)\n\nPrince Adalbert of Prussia (\"Adalbert Ferdinand Berengar Viktor\"; 14 July 1884 – 22 September 1948) was the third son of Wilhelm II, German Emperor by his first wife, Princess Augusta Victoria of Schleswig-Holstein.\n\nAdalbert was born in Potsdam, Germany. He married Princess Adelheid \"Adi\" of Saxe-Meiningen (16 August 1891 – 25 April 1971) on 3 August 1914 in Wilhelmshaven, Germany, and had three children, five grandchildren, six great-grandchildren and two great-great-grandchildren:\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAdalbert died in La Tour de Peilz, Switzerland, aged 64.\n\n"}
{"id": "2006985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2006985", "title": "Prince Eitel Friedrich of Prussia", "text": "Prince Eitel Friedrich of Prussia\n\nPrince Wilhelm Eitel Friedrich Christian Karl of Prussia (7 July 1883 – 8 December 1942) was the second son of Emperor Wilhelm II of Germany by his first wife, Princess Augusta Viktoria of Schleswig-Holstein-Sonderburg-Augustenburg. He was born and died in Potsdam, Germany.\n\nOn 27 February 1906, Prince Eitel married Duchess Sophia Charlotte of Oldenburg (2 February 1879 Oldenburg – 29 March 1964 Westerstede) in Berlin. They were divorced on 20 October 1926 on the grounds of her adultery before the war. They had no children.\n\nRaised at the cadet corps of Plön Castle, Prince Eitel was in the front line from the beginning of World War I and was wounded at Bapaume, where he commanded the Prussian First Foot Guards. He temporarily relinquished command to Count Hans von Blumenthal, but returned to duty before the end of the year. The following year, he was transferred to the Eastern Front. During the summer of 1915, he was out in a field in Russia when he had a chance encounter with Manfred von Richthofen, who had just crashed with his superior officer, Count Holck. The two men were hiding in a nearby tree line from what they thought was the advancing Russian army and who turned out to be the grenadiers, guardsmen, and officers of Prince Eitel.\n\nAfter the war, he was engaged in monarchist circles and \"Der Stahlhelm\" ex-servicemens' organization. In 1921, the Berlin criminal court found him guilty of the fraudulent transfer of 300,000 Marks and sentenced him to a fine of 5000 Marks.\n\nFrom 1907 to 1926, he was Master of the Knights (\"Herrenmeister\") of the Order of St. John (\"Johanniterorden\"). He received the Pour le Mérite order in 1915. His body is buried at the Antique Temple in Sanssouci Park, Potsdam.\n\n\n\nTwo ships were named after Prince Eitel, the passenger ship \"Prince Eitel Friedrich\" (1901) and the Reich postal steamer \"Prince Eitel Friedrich\" (1904).\n\nSchench, G. \"Handbuch über den Königlich Preuβischen Hof und Staat fur das Jahr 1908\". Berlin, Prussia, 1907.\n\n<BR>\n"}
{"id": "2006986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2006986", "title": "Ono no Imoko", "text": "Ono no Imoko\n\nOno was appointed by Empress Suiko as an official envoy (Kenzuishi) to the Sui court in 607 (Imperial embassies to China), and he delivered the famous letter from Japan's Prince Shōtoku which began \"The Son of Heaven where the sun rises [Japan], to the Son of Heaven where the sun sets [China], may good health be with you.\" Emperor Yang was angered at being addressed in this way, although it is not clear whether he was angered more by the insult of Sui being referred to as the land of the setting sun, or by the use of Son of Heaven to refer both to himself and the emperor of Japan, hinting that they were equals, when China considered the Yamato state of Japan to be nothing more than an insignificant barbarian state. Nevertheless, Emperor Yang was probably more interested in obtaining Japan's support in his campaigns against Goguryeo than in matters of decorum, and despite the insult, he sent his own envoy, Pei Shiqing (裴世清), back to Japan with Ono.\n\nOno was then appointed envoy to Sui for a second time in the fall of 608 and accompanied Pei Shiqing on his return trip to China. Ono returned to Japan from his second mission in 609 and then largely disappeared from the historical record. Ono no Imoko is often cited as an example of an official who achieved promotion under the new meritorious Twelve Level Cap and Rank System implemented by Prince Shōtoku in 603. When Ono first appeared in the historical record and was appointed envoy to Sui, his rank was listed as Greater Propriety (5th rank), but he was later promoted to the top rank of Greater Virtue, largely due to his successful missions to the Sui court.\n\nOno no Imoko's family was notable for linguistics and scholarship, and the descendants of the family include Ono no Komachi, beautiful female poet; Ono no Takamura, poet and scholar; and Ono no Michikaze, calligrapher.\n\n"}
{"id": "2006995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2006995", "title": "Railway Digest", "text": "Railway Digest\n\nRailway Digest is a Sydney based monthly magazine covering the railways of Australia.\n\n\"Railway Digest\" is published by the Australian Railway Historical Society (ARHS), NSW Division. The first issue was published in March 1963 under the name New South Wales Digest and regular publication commenced with the May 1963 edition. It was renamed in January 1983. In January 1985 it changed paper size from SRA5 to A4.\n\nOriginally an enthusiast magazine mainly focussing on reporting day-to-day workings of the New South Wales Government Railways and it successors, it was produced by volunteers using a hand-operated duplicator at the home of one of its members. In May 1993, a paid editor was appointed and the magazine's focus gradually shifted to reporting news from across Australia. Today it has evolved into a professional full colour production directed at the wider community and commercially distributed to newsagents throughout Australia.\n\nThe magazine is mainly a news magazine, with some feature articles. The other six state and territory divisions of the ARHS publish their own news magazines, while \"Australian Railway History\" is the national magazine for well-researched historical features. As at July 2016 it retails for $10.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2006997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2006997", "title": "Natalia Oreiro", "text": "Natalia Oreiro\n\nNatalia Marisa Oreiro Iglesias (; born 19 May 1977) is a Uruguayan singer, actress, and fashion designer. Oreiro began her career in telenovelas. Since 2008 she has switched to work primarily in films. Oreiro has worked on social awareness shows and events for organizations like Greenpeace and UNICEF, the latter of which designated her as ambassador for Argentina and Uruguay in September 2011. She has been included in \"Esquire\" magazine's \"The Sexiest Woman Alive Atlas\" list.\n\nNatalia Oreiro, daughter of Carlos Florencio Oreiro Poggio and Mabel Cristina Iglesias Bourié, was born on 19 May 1977. Natalia studied drama at the age of eight and at twelve started auditioning for advertisements. During her teens she appeared in more than 30 television commercials for such trade marks as Coca-Cola, Pepsi and Johnson & Johnson. At the age of 16 she moved to Argentina to work there and unleash her ambition to be a star. She worked as an MTV VJ and in 1995, she landed a role in the soap opera \"Dulce Ana\". She was then cast in the TV series \"90-60-90 modelos\" (1996) and next in \"Ricos y famosos\" (1997, playing Valeria). Next, she starred in the Argentinian film \"Un Argentino en New York\" (1998). After the movie, Natalia launched her first album, \"Natalia Oreiro\" and the single \"Cambio Dolor\" became the opening theme for her next acting project, the prime time show \"Muñeca brava\" (1998–1999). For her performance in \"Muñeca Brava\", Natalia was nominated twice (1998 and 1999) for a Martín Fierro Award as best actress in a leading role.\nIn 1998, Natalia Oreiro recorded the theme \"Paths of the Soul\" next to Kennedy Choir[2] and with more than 120 Argentine artists under the direction of Instrumental pianist and conductor Nazareno Andorno.\n\nIn January 2000, Natalia was named \"Celebrity of the Century\" by E! Entertainment Television. She became popular in Russia and Israel due to the success of \"Muñeca Brava\" in that country and was even invited to star in a Russian telenovela. In Israel she performed many times on big stages and on many TV shows and won the best telenovela actress award and best theme song \"Cambio Dolor\" on \"VIVA 2000\" awards, And in 2002 the Israeli Cable TV had a live competition for finding the Israeli Natalia Oreiro, and she was the honor guest of the evening.\n\nShe pursued her musical career with the next album \"Tu Veneno\" and presentations in Gala de la Hispanidad, Gala de Murcia (both in Spain) and Festival de la Calle 8 in Miami. Her most important appearance was in the prestigious Latin television show \"Sábado Gigante Internacional\", hosted by Don Francisco. Natalia's major achievement at this time was her music performance in Chile at Viña del Mar Festival 2000 for which she was crowned Queen of that event. The album scored a Latin Grammy nomination for Best Female Pop Vocal Album, but lost to Christina Aguilera's \"Mi Reflejo\".\nOn 1 June 2002, her third studio album \"Turmalina\" was released by BMG Ariola Argentina. \"Turmalina\" was produced by Latin record producer Kike Santander and is a combination of rhythms such as rock, pop and some sort of reminiscent of the 60's and 50's sounds. On this album, Oreiro write and composed the songs: \"Alas De Libertad\" which is inspired by kids she met some time ago in the city of Jujuy, Argentina; \"Mar\" tells the love story between a sailor and his girlfriend. Natalia also contributed to the lyrics of \"Cayendo\". \"Que Digan Lo Que Quieran\" is \"Turmalina\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s first single. Official Uruguayan 2002 World Cup song \"Pasión Celeste\" is recorded with Fredy Bessio. \"Cuesta arriba, cuesta abajo\" was opening song of soap opera \"Kachorra\" (\"Runaway Lady\"). \"Kachorra\" ended with a rating lower than 20 points in Argentina.\n\nIn March 2003 she started filming her second film Cleopatra together with Norma Aleandro, Leonardo Sbaraglia and Héctor Alterio, under the direction of Eduardo Mignogna, a co-production with Spain. In the middle of 2003, she started a tour for Eastern Europe and Latin America. On 1 March 2004 she started filming \"El Deseo\".\n\nIn 2006 she joined as the female boxer, Esperanza Munoz, the cast of the telenovela \"Sos mi vida\" along with her \"Muñeca brava\" co-star Facundo Arana. It was directed by Rodolfo Antúnez and Jorge Bechara and broadcast by Canal 13. It began broadcasting on 16 January 2006 and ended 9 January 2007. During its broadcast averaged 26.9 points overall rating, and ended as the most watched Argentine television fiction ever, until it was displaced by the 2009, telenovela \"Valientes.\" It was written by Ernesto Korovsky and Sebastian Parrotta, and won four Martín Fierro Awards and three Clarín Awards.\n\nOn 30 April 2008, Oreiro starred in \"Amanda O\" which was a series of internet television in Argentina and produced by Dori Media Group. It was the first soap opera ever made for the internet, and was seen by 550,000 users over Novebox.com, from Argentina, Uruguay and Paraguay during its first season and beginning of the second. Later in 2008 she co-starred in the film \"Las vidas posibles\", along with \"Germán Palacios\" and Ana Celentano and got nominated for a Silver Condor for best Supporting Actress.\n\nIn 2009 she starred with Diego Peretti in Música en espera. The film premiered in Buenos Aires in March 2009 and sold 235,000 tickets. During the same year, she visited several international film festivals to present the film Francia directed by Adrián Caetano, including San Sebastian Film Festival among others.\n\nIn 2010 she starred in the film \"Miss Tacuarembó\", a musical comedy, which was co-produced by Uruguay, Argentina and Spain. For her performance, she received the Iris award for the best actress. Oreiro also participated in the soundtrack of the film, performing all the songs. During the same year, she presented \"Se dice de mí,\" a program that sought to raise awareness about women's rights.\n\nDuring the first half of 2011, he starred with Daniel Hendler in My First Wedding, a film comedy directed by Ariel Winograd.\n\nIn 2012 she started in \"Lynch\", a series created in Colombia and broadcast throughout Latin America. The same year the film Clandestine Childhood, that takes place during Argentina's last military dictatorship, premiered in Argentina. The film was selected to compete for a nomination in the best foreign film category at the 2013 Oscar awards. For her work in this film Oreiro won the Silver Condor award and the Argentine Academy of Cinematography Arts and Sciences Award for the best actress. At the end of 2012 she returned on stage and performed in \"Superdiscoteca of the 90s\" Festival, which took place in St. Petersburg, Russia.\n\nDuring 2013, she starred in the telenovela Solamente vos, which marked her return to television after a 7-year break. For her performance in the series she won awards for the best comedy actress in Tato Awards and Martín Fierro awards. Her next leading role was in the film The German Doctor, which was shot during 2012 in the city of Bariloche, and premiered in September 2013. This film, became the second in Oreiro's career to be shortlisted by the Academy of Arts and Sciences Cinematographic of Argentina to compete for a nomination in the Oscar Awards at the category best foreign film. She also won awards and nominations for best actress in the Condor de Plata awards, Sur awards, and the Unasur Festival.The film was nominated for Goya award and presented at several international film festivals. \n\nAt the end of 2013 she resumed her musical career performing a tour in Eastern Europe called \"Nasha Natasha Tour Hits\". She also released a new song and video clip, a cover of Gloria Trevi's song \"Todos me miraran\". With the \"Nasha Natasha Tour 2014 \", she toured a total of 19 Russian cities making a total of 34 shows. One of the most important was the one he held at the Olympic Sports Hall in Moscow, which broke a record, as it gathered more than 60 thousand people. She later recorded a new Russian version of \"Me muero de amor \"(« Я умираю от любви \"), with a video clip that starred Facundo Arana.\n\nIn 2015 she returned to television starring in the dramatic series Entre caníbales, along with Benjamín Vicuña and Joaquín Furriel, and under the direction of Juan José Campanella. The series was broadcast by the Telefe network for Argentina, and by Fox Life for the rest Latin American market.\n\nIn 2016 she starred in I'm Gilda, a film based on the life of the Argentinian singer, Gilda, who died in a car accident in September 1996. The soundtrack of the film became the fourth album in her musical career. In December 2016 she presented the first single of the album, the song \"Corazón Valiente\" in collaboration with Ruben Rada.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2007017", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007017", "title": "Russian Trotter", "text": "Russian Trotter\n\nThe Russian Trotter is a breed of trotting horse from the Russian Federation. It originated from cross-breeding of native Orlov Trotter horses with imported American Standardbred stock from about 1890; by about 1950 the Russian Trotter breed was considered established, although some cross-breeding with American stallions continued. A stud-book was established in 1927; in 1989 it ran to 23 volumes.\n\nThe Russian Trotter is widely distributed, from the Baltic to Siberia. In 1989 there were approximately 290,000 in the USSR, of which some 27,000 were considered purebred.\n"}
{"id": "2007031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007031", "title": "Menlo Park City School District", "text": "Menlo Park City School District\n\nThe Menlo Park City School District is a public school district in the San Francisco Bay Area, primarily serving the communities of Menlo Park and Atherton. Through the Tinsley Voluntary Transfer Program the district allows students from East Palo Alto and eastern Menlo Park to attend MPCSD schools.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2007046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007046", "title": "Cello Concerto No. 1 (Saint-Saëns)", "text": "Cello Concerto No. 1 (Saint-Saëns)\n\nCamille Saint-Saëns composed his Cello Concerto No. 1 in A minor, Op. 33 in 1872, when the composer was 37 years old. He wrote this work for the Belgian cellist, viola da gamba player and instrument maker Auguste Tolbecque. Tolbecque was part of a distinguished family of musicians closely associated with the Société des Concerts du Conservatoire, France's leading concert society. The concerto was first performed on January 19, 1873 at the Paris conservatoire concert with Tolbecque as soloist. This was considered a mark of Saint-Saëns' growing acceptance by the French musical establishment.\n\nSir Donald Francis Tovey later wrote \"Here, for once, is a violoncello concerto in which the solo instrument displays every register without the slightest difficulty in penetrating the orchestra.\" Many composers, including Shostakovich and Rachmaninoff, considered this concerto to be the greatest of all cello concertos. Yo-Yo Ma's recording of five \"Great Cello Concertos\" includes Dvořák's, Elgar's, one of Haydn's, Saint-Saëns' first, and Schumann's.\n\nSaint-Saëns broke with convention in writing the concerto. Instead of using the normal three-movement concerto form, he structured the piece in one continuous movement. This single movement contains three distinct sections. Those sections, tightly-structured, share interrelated ideas. Saint-Saëns' contact with Franz Liszt while serving as organist at the Église de la Madeleine may have led him to use cyclic form in his orchestral works.\n\nAlong with the solo cello, the concerto is scored for an orchestra consisting of 2 flutes, 2 oboes, 2 clarinets, 2 bassoons, 2 horns, 2 trumpets, timpani and strings.\n\nThe work can be split into three different sections as follows:\n\n\nSaint-Saëns very often uses the solo cello here as a declamatory instrument. This keeps the soloist in the dramatic and musical foreground, the orchestra offering a shimmering backdrop. The music is tremendously demanding for soloists, especially in the fast third section. This difficulty has not stopped the concerto from becoming a favourite of the great virtuoso cellists.\n\n»\n</score>\n\n\\new StaffGroup « \n»\n</score>\n\n\\relative c' \\new Staff {\n\n</score>\n\n\\relative c, \\new Staff \\with { \\remove \"Time_signature_engraver\" } {\n\n</score>\n\n\\relative c' \\new Staff \\with { \\remove \"Time_signature_engraver\" } {\n\n</score>\n\nThis recording is by the Skidmore College Orchestra and is courtesy of Musopen.\n"}
{"id": "2007047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007047", "title": "Wigwag (magazine)", "text": "Wigwag (magazine)\n\nWigwag was an American magazine published from 1988 until 1991.\n\nFounded by Alexander \"Lex\" Kaplen, who worked at \"The New Yorker\", \"Wigwag\" eschewed celebrity coverage in favor of personal and literary writing. A test issue was put on newsstands in the summer of 1988, and the magazine formally debuted in October 1989. The magazine attracted writers such as Peter Matthiessen, Terry McMillan, Garry Wills, Alex Heard, Sousa Jamba and Nancy Franklin, but despite a circulation of 120,000, and despite being financially successful, ceased publication when the Gulf War broke out in 1991 and the economy entered a recession. It published its last issue in February 1991. In its brief lifetime it reached a circulation of close to 200,000 and became a brand name signifying family-feeling and an appreciation of the qualities of non-metropolitan America.\n\nThe legend of \"Wigwag's\" founding by a group of young exiles from \"The New Yorker\" – an exodus which followed \"The New Yorker's\" acquisition by Conde Nast and Conde Nast's subsequent dismissal of \"The New Yorker's\" longtime editor William Shawn – attracted an enormous amount of attention to its launch and early publication. Once launched, it quickly became a success d'estime, and critics often called it the \"Anti-\"Spy\"\" – in reference to the funny, cruel and cynical New York magazine of that name. Many saw the two magazines as rivals for media attention – neither survived the 1991 recession (although \"Spy\" lingered on in a brief afterlife). Contemporary observers thought that the \"parent ship,\" \"The New Yorker\" itself, then edited by Robert Gottlieb, also saw itself as threatened by \"Wigwag\" during \"Wigwag's\" lifetime. \"Wigwag\" proposed a kind of counter-reality to the sophistication which magazines like \"The New Yorker\" and \"Spy\" aspired to – offering, instead of \"The New Yorker's\" famed \"Talk of the Town\" section, its own titled opening section, \"Letters from Home.\" \n\nNotable staffers at \"Wigwag\" include Nancy Holyoke, who went on (with the help of Harriet Brown, another \"Wigwag\" editor, now a professor at the S. I. Newhouse School of Public Communications) to found \"American Girl\" magazine at Pleasant Company in Wisconsin, Caroline Fraser, the author of a noted history of the Christian Science Church, and Evan Cornog, now dean of the Lawrence Herbert School of Communication at Hofstra University. One of the most significant contributors to \"Wigwag's\" identity was its art director, the illustrator and designer Paul Davis. Many have observed that \"Wigwag's\" editorial and design innovations under Kaplen and Davis were later adopted by Tina Brown and implemented at \"The New Yorker\" when she became its editor.\n\n"}
{"id": "2007055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007055", "title": "Fall River Branch Railroad", "text": "Fall River Branch Railroad\n\nThe Fall River Branch Railroad was incorporated in Massachusetts in 1844, to provide a rail link from the emerging textile town of Fall River to the New Bedford and Taunton Railroad at Myricks Junction. It began operating in 1845 with 12 miles of track. A year later, in 1846 it merged with the Middleborough Railroad Corporation and the Randolph & Bridgewater Railroad Corporation to become the Fall River Railroad Company, with a new connection to Bridgewater. It operated as the Fall River Railroad until 1854 when it merged into the Old Colony Railroad to become the Old Colony and Fall River Railroad Company.\n\nThe Fall River Railroad, under the leadership of Richard Borden began regular steamship service to New York City. The service became known as the Fall River Line, which for many years was the preferred means of travel between Boston and New York City.\n\nThe original 1845 alignment of the Fall River Branch Railroad is currently part of the South Coast Rail project from Fall River to Boston. The state purchased the track from CSX in 2010 for $21 million, along with sections of track in nearby New Bedford and Dartmouth\n\n"}
{"id": "2007061", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007061", "title": "Fall River Railroad (1874)", "text": "Fall River Railroad (1874)\n\nThe Fall River Railroad was a railroad in Massachusetts. It was chartered in 1874, opened in 1875 from New Bedford to Fall River through the towns of Dartmouth and Westport. The line was built to provide rail access to the mills in the eastern part of Fall River along the Quequechan River valley.\n\nThe western terminus of the line was located Watuppa Station at Plymouth Avenue near Front Street. In 1882 the line was leased to the Old Colony Railroad for 99 years, but sold outright to the Old Colony in 1896.\n\nIn 2008, a new $462,000 bike path opened over a portion of the former Fall River Railroad right-of-way along the shore South Watuppa Pond between Brayton Avenue and the Westport town line. It was later extended to connect Britland Park and Front St.\n\n"}
{"id": "2007071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007071", "title": "Richard Martin Stern", "text": "Richard Martin Stern\n\nRichard Martin Stern (March 17, 1915 in Fresno, California – October 31, 2001 in Santa Fe, New Mexico) was an American novelist. Stern began his writing career in the 1950s with mystery tales of private investigators, winning a 1959 Edgar Award for Best First Novel, for \"The Bright Road to Fear\".\n\nHe was most notable for his 1973 novel \"The Tower\", in which a fire engulfs a new metal-and-glass frame skyrise. Stern was inspired to write the novel by the construction of the World Trade Center in New York City. Warner Brothers bought the rights to the novel shortly after its publication for roughly $400,000, and Stern's book, in combination with the novel \"The Glass Inferno\" by Thomas N. Scortia and Frank M. Robinson, was the basis for the movie \"The Towering Inferno\", directed by Irwin Allen and John Guillermin and featuring an all-star cast. With an fourteen million dollar budget, the film went on to earn over a hundred million at the American box office.\n\nStern was known for his \"brainy, digressive,\" novels, mainly mysteries and disaster-related suspense. He died on October 31, 2001 after prolonged illness. He was 86.\n\n"}
{"id": "2007072", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007072", "title": "Cape Cod Central Railroad", "text": "Cape Cod Central Railroad\n\nThe Cape Cod Central Railroad is a heritage railroad located on Cape Cod, Massachusetts. It operates on a rail line known as the Cape Main Line which is owned by Massachusetts Department of Transportation. The line was previously owned and operated by the Cape Cod Railroad, the Old Colony Railroad, and later the New Haven Railroad, each of which operated passenger trains on the line from 1854 to 1959. Although it is the namesake of the Cape Cod Central Railroad (1861–68), the two companies are unrelated.\n\nFounded in 1999, it operates a variety of excursion trains from downtown Hyannis to the Cape Cod Canal during spring, summer, and fall. Recently, it has expanded service in a limited capacity to offer rides that travel the reverse of the normal route. It also offers special trains that travel to Wareham. Most of their trips are made during the Scallop Festival or during the summer when the Family Supper Train and Scenic Train depart together from Buzzards Bay. It offers daily sightseeing trains known as the Shoreline Excursion, a Family Supper train, Brunch and Lunch trains, and an Elegant Dinner train that was rated one of the top three in the nation by the Food Network. Past offerings have also included special Easter, Thanksgiving, and Christmas trains.\n\nOn November 21, 2009, the railroad ran dinner service on the Falmouth Line via North Falmouth.\n\nThe Cape Cod Central Railroad has three locomotives, and generally uses two on each train in a pull-pull configuration due to a lack of convenient switching locations. ALCo RS3m #1201, nicknamed \"Lulubell,\" was originally built in May 1951 for the New York Central Railroad as locomotive #8246. It has also served Penn Central, Amtrak, Connecticut Central Railroad, and Providence and Worcester Railroad. #1201 did not run during the 2011 season; since it was at the end of its useful life, it was scrapped on September 17, 2011. EMD GP7 #1501, along with its sister engine #1502, was originally built in 1952 for the Atlanta and St. Andrews Bay Railway. The 1501 recently emerged in a new paint scheme identical to sister railroad Massachusetts Coastal's paint scheme. The engine is now in service on Cape Cod Central trains. Sister 1502 has not run in several years and a return to service is not likely in the foreseeable future. EMD E9 #2400 and its sister EMD E9 #2402 are former former Susquehanna railroad units. 2402 is being used for parts to fix 2400.\n\nThe railroad has 8 cars in service, as well as a Budd RDC which is owned privately . The Barnstable (#101), Sandwich (#102), and Bourne (#103) cars are used for sightseeing tours, and are all former Long Island Rail Road 2700 series commuter cars. The kitchen/generator car (#250) is used on dining trains, as all meals served are prepared on board the train. The Cape Codder (#200) lounge car is a vintage piece of equipment originally from the Illinois Central Railroad. Much of the interior is original, including a number of pieces of plate glass. The Sandy Neck (#201), Great Island (#202), and Race Point (#203) dining cars were all built in the early 1940s and have since been completely restored.\n\nThis Railroad should not be confused with, although is affiliated with, the Massachusetts Coastal Railroad - the freight railroad that transports trash off of the Cape. Since 2006, the Cape Cod Central Railroad has been a wholly owned subsidiary of Cape Rail Inc., which also owns and operates the Massachusetts Coastal Railroad.\n\nIn October 2012, Chicago-based Iowa Pacific Holdings acquired control of Cape Rail Inc., and its subsidiaries, Massachusetts Coastal Railroad, LLC and Cape Cod Central Railroad.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2007073", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007073", "title": "Cape Cod Railroad", "text": "Cape Cod Railroad\n\nThe Cape Cod Railroad was a railroad in southeastern Massachusetts. It was incorporated in 1846 as the Cape Cod Branch Railroad to provide a rail link from the Fall River Railroad line in Middleborough to Cape Cod.\n\nAmong the proponents of the Cape Cod Branch Railroad were Col. Richard Borden of Fall River, who saw the new line as an opportunity to bring more traffic and business through his hometown. He was at one time president of the Bay State Steamboat Company, which together with the Old Colony Railroad formed the noted \"Fall River Line\". He was later elected president of the Cape Cod Railroad.\n\nOn January 26, 1848, the first segment of the railroad was opened between Middleborough and Wareham. By May 1848 an additional was opened to Sandwich, enabling unimpeded transit between Boston and Sandwich, thus serving the needs of the Boston & Sandwich Glass Company. In 1853, the extension of the line to Hyannis was started, reaching West Barnstable on December 22, 1853.\n\nOn February 22, 1854, the Cape Cod Branch Railroad was renamed the Cape Cod Railroad Company. In the spring of 1854, construction continued, with the railroad reaching Barnstable village May 8, Yarmouth Port May 19, and finally Hyannis on July 8, 1854. Connecting steamboat service to Nantucket commenced from Hyannis in late September and would continue until 1872.\n\nIn 1868, the Cape Cod Railroad acquired the Cape Cod Central Railroad (1861–68), which had opened a line from Yarmouth to Orleans in 1865.\n\nIn 1871, the Cape Cod Railroad bought the Plymouth and Vineyard Sound Railroad – which had been incorporated in 1861 as the Vineyard Sound Railroad Company intending to build a line from Buzzards Bay to Woods Hole. However, the road to Woods Hole was not completed until July 1872, after the merger with the Cape Cod Railroad. Upon completion of that road, the steamboat service to Nantucket moved to Woods Hole.\n\nBy this time, the Cape Cod Railroad had merged with the Old Colony and Newport Railway to form a new company, renamed the Old Colony Railroad. The Cape Cod routes became known as the \"Cape Cod Division\" of the Old Colony Railroad, with its headquarters in Hyannis.\n\nWith much fanfare, the Old Colony Railroad completed the line to Provincetown in July 1873.\n\nThe lines of the Cape Cod Railroad became part of the New York, New Haven and Hartford Railroad (NYNH&H) in 1893, when it leased the entire Old Colony Railroad network. The NYNH&H ended daily passenger service to southeastern Massachusetts and the Cape in 1959. The railroad did, however, restore the popular seasonal rail service from New York, with connections from Boston, during the 1960 through 1964 summer seasons.\n\nThe New Haven's passenger service to Cape Cod was operated under a number of different names, including and \"Day Cape Codder\", the \"Night Cape Codder\", the \"Neptune\", the \"Islander\", and the \"Flying Dude\".\n\nBetween 1986 and 1996, Amtrak operated the \"Cape Codder\" during summer weekends from New York City to Hyannis.\n\nCape Cod and Hyannis Railroad provided seasonal service between Braintree and Hyannis from 1984 through 1988. Beginning in 1989, the Bay Colony Railroad operated seasonal heritage railroad excursions from Hyannis to Sagamore under the Cape Cod Railroad brand. In 1999, the Cape Cod Central Railroad began operating the service.\n\nSeasonal CapeFLYER service by the CCRTA and MBTA began in 2013.\n\n"}
{"id": "2007101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007101", "title": "Walter Conrad Arensberg", "text": "Walter Conrad Arensberg\n\nWalter Conrad Arensberg (April 4, 1878 – January 29, 1954) was an American art collector, critic and poet. His father was part owner and president of a crucible steel company. He majored in English and philosophy at Harvard University. With his wife Louise (born as Mary Louise Stevens, 1879–1953), he collected art and supported artistic endeavors.\n\nWalter Arensberg was born in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, the oldest child of Conrad Christian Arensberg and his second wife, Flora Belle Covert. Walter's father was President and partial owner of a successful Pittsburgh crucible company. Between 1896 and 1900, Walter attended Harvard University. Following graduation, he travelled to Europe, where he spent at least two years. In 1903, he returned to Harvard, as a graduate student. He did not complete his degree, but rather moved to New York City to work as a cub reporter from 1904-1906.\n\nArensberg's first major book, \"The Cryptography of Dante\" (1921) was greeted as a literary scandal because of its deeply Freudian interpretation of the text. A full-page review appeared in \"The New York Evening Journal\" with the title \"A Shocking Attack on Dante's immortal 'Inferno'.\" This book was followed by \"The Cryptography of Shakespeare\" (1922), which finds acrostics and anagrams in the published works of Shakespeare that reveal the embedded name of Francis Bacon. In \"The secret grave of Francis Bacon and his mother in the Lichfield chapter house\" (1923) and \"The Shakespearean mystery\" (1928) he used a \"key cipher\" to find further messages connected with the Rosicrucians. Analysis by William Friedman and Elizebeth Friedman shows that none of the methods has cryptographic validity.\n\nSeveral volumes of his Symbolist-influenced verse were also published, including 1914's \"Poems\" and 1916's \"Idols\". His poem \"Voyage a l'Infini\" was anthologized by Edmund Clarence Stedman. His far more adventurous, avant-garde poetry appeared in Dada magazines between 1917 and 1919: \"Rogue\", \"The Blind Man\", \"391\", \"TNT\".\n\nBetween 1913 and 1950 the couple collected the works of Modern artists such as Jean Metzinger, Marcel Duchamp, Charles Sheeler, Walter Pach, and Beatrice Wood, as well as Pre-Columbian art; they were assisted by dealer Earl L. Stendahl. The Arensbergs became particularly close with Duchamp, who lived in their apartment during the summer of 1915 while they vacationed at their summer home in Pomfret, Connecticut. They would become the artist's lifelong patrons and form the largest, most significant collection of his work. When Duchamp's idea to dispatch his 1917 work \"Fountain\", an ordinary bathroom urinal signed with the pseudonym \"R. Mutt,\" to the first show of the Society of Independent Artists was rejected, both he and Arensberg felt obliged to resign from the society.\n\nIn 1921, for health and financial reasons and upon Louise's insistence, the couple relocated to Hollywood, California. While the move was originally intended to be temporary, the Arensbergs remained in California for the rest of their lives, returning to New York for only a year between 1925 and 1926. They first lived in Residence A, a guest house designed by Frank Lloyd Wright on Olive Hill, a property owned by Aline Barnsdall. for a time. In September 1927, the Arensbergs purchased their permanent home on 7065 Hillside Avenue, an example of Mediterranean Revival architecture built in 1920 for Lee B. Memefee and designed by architect William Lee Woollett; they later commissioned architect Richard Neutra to build an addition to house Constantin Brâncuși's bronze version of \"L'Oiseau dans l'espace\" (1924). In 1946, Max Ernst and Dorothea Tanning were married at the home in a double wedding with Juliet Browner and Man Ray. Walter served as a board member of the Los Angeles Art Association (1937), Los Angeles County Museum of Art (1938–1939), and the Southwest Museum (1944–1954). In addition, he was a founding board member of the short-lived American Arts in Action (1943) and the Modern Institute of Art, Beverly Hills (1947–1949), organizations dedicated to showing modern art in California.\n\nIntrigued with writer Francis Bacon, particularly the aspects of alchemy, cryptography, Rosicrucianism, and, inevitably, the Shakespeare-Bacon debate, the Arensbergs researched his work. In 1937 they established the Francis Bacon Foundation in Los Angeles intending to promote \"research in history, philosophy, science, literature, and art, with special reference to the life and works of Francis Bacon\" and in 1954 endowed it with funds and their collection of Baconiana. The Foundation's library was housed in its own small brick building at the Claremont Colleges beginning in 1960. In the intervening years, the collection grew from its original 3,500 volumes to over 16,000 volumes. With the failing health of the collection's longtime librarian and curator, Elizabeth Wrigley, the Foundation decided to transfer it to the Huntington Library in San Marino. The collection is now known as the Francis Bacon Foundation Arensberg Collection.\n\nIn the 1940s the Arensbergs began to look for a permanent home for their collection. In 1941, a group around actors Vincent Price, Edward G. Robinson, Fanny Brice, and Sam Jaffe tried to get the collection to stay on the West Coast, for the Modern Institute of Art in Beverly Hills. In 1944, the Arensbergs signed a deed of gift with the University of California, Los Angeles, which included the stipulation that the University build an appropriate museum to house the collection in a specified time frame; their friend and fellow collector Galka Scheyer subsequently signed a similar agreement. By the fall of 1947 it was obvious that this condition would not be met and the contract was nullified. In 1939, the Los Angeles County Museum of Art's board turned down a gift of avant-garde works from the collection.\n\nThe Arensbergs then began negotiations with numerous other institutions, including the Art Institute of Chicago, the Denver Art Museum, Harvard University, the Honolulu Academy of Arts, the Instituto Nacional de Bellas Artes (Mexico, D.F.), the National Gallery, the Philadelphia Museum of Art, the San Francisco Museum of Art, Stanford University, the University of California, Berkeley, and the University of Minnesota. The Arensbergs eventually dropped their demand that the recipient of the collection also provide for the continuance of the Francis Bacon Foundation. After protracted discussions and many visits from Director Fiske Kimball and his wife Marie, the Arensbergs presented their collection of over 1000 objects, including correspondence, ephemera, clippings, writings, personal and art collection records, and photographs documenting the couple's art collecting activities as well as their friendship with many important artists, writers and scholars, to the Philadelphia Museum of Art on December 27, 1950.\n\nIn 1949, Daniel Catton Rich and Katherine Kuh organized the first public exhibition of the Arensberg collection, held at the Art Institute of Chicago in 1949. For the exhibition \"Making Mischief: Dada Invades New York\" in 1996, the Whitney Museum of American Art partially recreated the interior of the Manhattan apartment of the Arensbergs.\n\n"}
{"id": "2007102", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007102", "title": "Mesonychid", "text": "Mesonychid\n\nMesonychia (\"middle claws\") is an extinct taxon of small to large-sized carnivorous ungulates related to the cetartiodactyls. Mesonychids first appeared in the early Paleocene, went into a sharp decline at the end of the Eocene, and died out entirely when the last genus, \"Mongolestes\", became extinct in the early Oligocene. In Asia, the record of their history suggests they grew gradually larger and more predatory over time, then shifted to scavenging and bone-crushing lifestyles before the group became extinct. \n\nMesonychids probably originated in China, where the most primitive mesonychid, \"Yangtanglestes\", is known from the early Paleocene. They were also most diverse in Asia, where they occur in all major Paleocene faunas. Since other predators, such as creodonts and Carnivora, were either rare or absent in these animal communities, mesonychids most likely dominated the large predator niche in the Paleocene of eastern Asia.\n\nOne genus, \"Dissacus\", had successfully spread to Europe and North America by the early Paleocene. \"Dissacus\" was a jackal-sized predator that has been found all over the Northern Hemisphere, but species of a closely related or identical genus, \"Ankalagon\", from the early to middle Paleocene of New Mexico, were far larger, growing to the size of a bear. A later genus, \"Pachyaena\", entered North America by the earliest Eocene, where it evolved into species that were at least as large. Mesonychids in North America were by far the largest predatory mammals during the early Paleocene to middle Eocene.\n\nMesonychids have often been reconstructed as resembling wolves, albeit superficially, but they would have appeared very different in life. With a short lower spine stiffened by revolute joints, they would have run with stiff backs like modern ungulates rather than bounding or loping with flexible spines like modern Carnivorans. While later mesonychids evolved a suite of limb adaptations for running similar to those in both wolves and deer, their legs remained comparatively thick. They would have resembled no group of living animals. Early mesonychids probably walked on the flats of their feet (plantigrade), while later ones walked on their toes (digitigrade). These later mesonychids had hooves, one on each toe, with four toes on each foot. The foot was compressed for efficient running with the axis between the third and fourth toes (paraxonic); it would have looked something like a hoofed paw.\n\nMesonychids varied in size; some species were as small as a fox, others as large as a horse. Some members of the group are known only from skulls and jaws, or have fragmentary postcranial remains. But where skeletons are known, they indicate that mesonychids had large heads with strong jaw muscles, relatively long necks, and robust bodies with robust limbs that could run effectively but not rotate the hand or reach out to the side. An unrelated early group of mammalian predators, the creodonts, also had unusually large heads and limbs that traded flexibility for efficiency in running; large head size may be connected to inability to use the feet and claws to help catch and process food, as many modern carnivorans do. Some mesonychids are reconstructed as predatory (comparable to canids), others as scavengers or carnivore-scavengers with bone-crushing adaptations to their teeth (comparable to the large hyenas), and some as omnivorous (comparable to pigs, humans, or black bears). They may not have included hypercarnivores (comparable to felids); their teeth were not as effective at cutting meat as later groups of large mammalian predators. In some localities, multiple species or genera coexisted in different ecological niches. There is evidence to suggest that some genera were sexually dimorphic. Some genera may need revision to clarify the actual number of species or remove ambiguity about genera (such as \"Dissacus\" and \"Ankalagon\").\n\nThese \"wolves on hooves\" were probably one of the more important predator groups in the late Paleocene and Eocene ecosystems of Europe (which was an archipelago at the time), Asia (which was an island continent), and North America. Mesonychid dentition consisted of molars modified to generate vertical shear, thin blade-like lower molars, and carnassial notches, but no true carnassials. The molars were laterally compressed and often blunt, and were probably used for shearing meat or crushing bones. The largest species are considered to have been scavengers. Many species are suspected of being fish-eaters, though some of these reconstructions may be influenced by earlier theories that the group was ancestral to cetaceans. \n\nMesonychians were long considered to be creodonts, but have now been removed from that order and placed in three families (Mesonychidae, Hapalodectidae, and Triisodontidae), either within their own order, Mesonychia, or within the order Condylarthra as part of the cohort or superorder Laurasiatheria. Nearly all mesonychids are, on average, larger than most of the Paleocene and Eocene creodonts and miacoid carnivorans.\n\nThe order is sometimes referred to by its older name \"Acreodi\". Technically speaking, the term \"mesonychid\" refers specifically only to the members of the family Mesonychidae, such as the species of the genus \"Mesonyx\". However, as the order is also renamed for \"Mesonyx\", the term \"mesonychid\" is now used to refer to members of the entire order Mesonychia and the species of other families within it.\n\nA recent study found mesonychians to be basal euungulates most closely related to the \"arctocyonids\" \"Mimotricentes\", \"Deuterogonodon\" and \"Chriacus\". \"Triisodontidae\" may be paraphyletic. \n\nMesonychids possess unusual triangular molar teeth that are similar to those of Cetacea (whales and dolphins), especially those of the archaeocetes, as well as having similar skull anatomies and other morphologic traits. For this reason, scientists had long believed that mesonychids were the direct ancestor of Cetacea, but the discovery of well-preserved hind limbs of archaic cetaceans, as well as more recent phylogenetic analyses now indicate cetaceans are more closely related to hippopotamids and other artiodactyls than they are to mesonychids, and this result is consistent with many molecular studies. The similarity in dentition and skull may be the result of primitive ungulate structures in related groups independently evolving to meet similar needs as predators; some researchers have suggested that the absence of a first toe and a reduced metatarsal are basal features (synaptomorphies) indicating that mesonychids, perissodactyls, and artiodactyls are sister groups.\n\nMost paleontologists now doubt that whales are descended from mesonychids, and instead suggest mesonychians are descended from basal ungulates and cetaceans are descended from advanced ungulates (Artiodactyla), either deriving from, or sharing a common ancestor with, anthracotheres (the semiaquatic ancestors of hippos). However, the close grouping of whales with hippopotami in cladistic analyses only surfaces following the deletion of \"Andrewsarchus\", which has often been included within the mesonychids. One possible conclusion is that \"Andrewsarchus\" has been incorrectly classified. The current uncertainty may, in part, reflect the fragmentary nature of the remains of some crucial fossil taxa, such as \"Andrewsarchus\".\n"}
{"id": "2007103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007103", "title": "Sabre (Eclipse Comics)", "text": "Sabre (Eclipse Comics)\n\nSabre (subtitled \"Slow Fade of an Endangered Species\"), published in August 1978, is the title of an American graphic novel. Created by writer Don McGregor and artist Paul Gulacy, it was published by Eclipse Enterprises, whose eventual division Eclipse Comics would publish a spin-off comic-book series. It was one of the first modern graphic novels and the first to be distributed in comic book shops.\n\nThe initial project of Eclipse Enterprises, the graphic novel \"Sabre\" is a 38-page, black-and-white, science fiction swashbuckler in which the self-consciously romantic rebel Sabre and his companion Melissa Siren fight the mercenary Blackstar Blood and others to achieve freedom and strike a blow for individuality, all amid a futuristic Disneyland-turned-torture-chamber. It was published in August 1978 with no ISBN number.\n\nAs McGregor described the project's genesis in the afterword of the original edition, writer-editor Jim Salicrup, who in 1976 was toying with the idea of producing a weekly newspaper tabloid, asked McGregor to write a weekly adventure comic strip. McGregor had unsuccessfully pitched a feature called \"Dagger\" to Marvel Comics, for which he wrote features including \"The Black Panther\" and \"Killraven, Warrior of the Worlds\":\nHe later wrote, \"I think I took a token sum of money from Dean Mullaney ... of $300. I wanted Dean to be able to afford to do the book. He invested in the book for over a year. Everyone else was paid over their [usual] page rate.\"\n\nDescribed on the credits page as a \"comic novel\" (the term \"graphic novel\" not being in common usage at the time), it was followed in 1982 by a 14-issue comic book series (cover-dated August 1982 – August 1985) by McGregor and, consecutively, the artists Billy Graham and José Ortiz. The first two issues reprinted the graphic novel in color. According to McGregor, Eclipse co-founder Jan Mullaney strongly objected to some of the series' content, such as the graphic depiction of childbirth and the kiss between gay men, saying that it would cost them sales.\n\nAnnette Kawecki was the letterer. P. Craig Russell inked \"several\" pages, Gulacy said in 1980. The first graphic novel to be sold in the new \"direct market\" of comic-book stores, the book, priced at a then-considerable $6.00, helped prove the new format's viability by going into a second printing, dated February 1979.\n\nPublisher Dean Mullaney recalled in 2008,\nEclipse published a 10th-anniversary edition of the original graphic novel (hardcover, ; trade paperback, ) with a new Gulacy cover and Jim Steranko logo. A 20th-anniversary edition was published by Image Comics in 1998, and a 30th-anniversary edition by Desperado Publishing in 2008.\n\nBy February 2020, Earth has succumbed to global famine, energy crises, a plague based on a leaked American-government bioweapon, and, in the U.S., a nine-year drought and a variety of terrorist acts including the contamination of Manhattan's water supply. The U.S. government retreated to a fortress and commenced battling rebels through proxies known as Overseers. One rebel, Sabre, arrives at an abandoned theme park intending to free a group of captured comrades. With him is his lover and fellow rebel, Melissa Siren. As the local Overseer and technician Misty Visions follow their whereabouts, using security cameras that cover most but not every part of the park, Sabre and Melissa infiltrate the park's fantasyland castle and encounter animatronic mermaids and musicians while discussing the nature of men, women and the world that has been left to them. Hunting them are the mercenary Blackstar Blood, who sees Sabre as an honorable adversary, and the Overseer's troops – including the nervous, prattling Willoughby, and Grouse, an \"ani-human construction\" resembling a hybrid human and jungle cat.\n\nSabre, fully aware the hostages serve as bait to trap him, nonetheless commandeers a replica of an old sailing ship as he searches for the captives. Blackstar and his crew ram it with one of their own, and capture the duo. Sabre is taken to a Synchronization Center, where, displayed before a gathering of scientists and officials, his memories are methodically wiped clean as he is forced to view Melissa, in a brothel suite, being groped and violated by Clarence, a sentient skeleton, and Grouse. She feigns submissiveness and steals Grouse's metal whip, swinging its bunched coils to tear apart Grouse's robotic head and whipping Clarence until he falls apart. Willoughby, who'd been repulsed by his comrades actions, unlocks her shackles.\n\nIn the Synchronization Center, the Overseer frees a docile-seeming Sabre, who instantly fights back, having resisted the removal of his last few memories and pieces of identity. Escaping with a gun, he reaches the brothel suite but finds Melissa gone – and is told by the Overseer that she is dead. They prepare to duel, while elsewhere, Melissa and Willoughby bond as they about what brought him here. He tells her the Overseer is keeping the captive rebels in the castle's dungeon. As Blackstar and his men hunt Melissa, the dueling Sabre and Overseer fall from a building onto the monorail tracks just below. Technician Visions prepares to shoot Sabre, but Blackstar kills her out of disgust for the way Sabre and Melissa were tortured and wanting to best Sabre personally. As Sabre and the Overseer battle, and as Blackstar charges his horse toward them while a monorail bears down on all, Melissa and the freed rebels attack. Melissa takes a horse from one of Blackstar's men and rides onto the monorail track, chasing Blacksar. Sabre overpowers the Overseer, but when he sees Blackstar, Melissa and the monorail bearing down, loses his grip. Blackstar fires his weapon at the monorail, destroying it in a cataclysm that throws the combatants and horses from the track. Sabre shoots the Overseer dead. Blackstar, saying he is now unemployed, suggests that Sabre leave before more forces arrive to capture him.\n\nTwo months later, a pregnant Melissa, knowing militias are hunting Sabre, orders him to leave without her. He does, vowing to return for her and their child.\n\n"}
{"id": "2007121", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007121", "title": "Bangarra Dance Theatre", "text": "Bangarra Dance Theatre\n\nBangarra Dance Theatre is an Indigenous Australian contemporary dance company.\n\nBangarra Dance Theatre was founded in October 1989 by Carole J. Johnson, an African-American modern dancer and founder of the National Aboriginal and Islander Skills Development Association (NAISDA), Rob Bryant, a Gumbaynggirr man and graduate of NAISDA, and Cheryl Stone, a South African-born student at NAISDA.\n\nJohnson toured Australia in 1972 with American choreographer Eleo Pomare and his company, and remained in Australia. In 1975 Johnson became the founding director of the Aboriginal Islander Skills Development Scheme, now known as the National Aboriginal and Islander Skills Development Association (NAISDA).\n\nJohnson had a three-part plan for Aboriginal dance in Australia, including establishing a school to give academic qualifications and train dancers as members of a student and graduate performing company that would also teach. It would further provide a path for the dancers to other dance-related jobs, including choreography, tour management, and all front and back of house skills. Thirdly, a vital part was to maintain authentic cultural continuity, friendships, and close ties to traditional communities. Johnson mentored Stone, who studied alongside the dancers. She planned the formation of Bangarra and in 1989, became the founding Artistic Director of Bangarra Dance Theatre.\n\nBangarra is the Wiradjuri word meaning \"to make fire\".\n\nStephen Page has been the artistic director since 1991. Bangarra's first full-length show, \"Praying Mantis Dreaming\", was produced in 1992, in 1994 Stephen Page with Bernadette Walong as Associate Director created \"Ochres\" and productions have followed annually since 2000. All have been successful within Australia and some have toured the United States and the United Kingdom. The group also made significant contributions to the opening and closing ceremonies of the 2000 Summer Olympics.\n\nThe company has received the Helpmann Award for Best Ballet or Dance Work multiple times.\n\nIn 2019, the company marked their thirty-year anniversary with the launch of a digital archive and exhibition named \"Knowledge Ground\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2007128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007128", "title": "Kalyana", "text": "Kalyana\n\nKalyana () is a neighborhood in the Karachi Central district of Karachi, Pakistan. It was previously administered as part of New Karachi Town, which was disbanded in 2011.\n\nMost people are associated with agriculture. Kalyana is a big town in the District Pakpattan. The population of this town is estimated to be near 25,000.\n\npakpattan sharif\n"}
{"id": "2007149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007149", "title": "2006 Finnish presidential election", "text": "2006 Finnish presidential election\n\nA presidential election was held in Finland on 15 and 29 January 2006 which resulted in the re-election of Tarja Halonen as President of Finland for a second six-year term.\n\nThe first round of voting in Finnish presidential elections always takes place on the third Sunday of January, in this case 15 January 2006. As no candidate received more than half of the vote, a second round was held on 29 January between the two highest placed candidates from the first round, Tarja Halonen and Sauli Niinistö. Tarja Halonen, the incumbent, won the final round by 3.6 percentage points. The newly elected president formally took office for her second term on 1 March, and would have done so on 1 February, had no run-off been necessary (Constitution 55 §).\n\nAdvance voting is possible in Finnish elections, and the dates for this in the first round were the 4th, 5th and 7th to 10 January. Finnish citizens voting abroad could vote from the 4th to the 7th of January. An advantage to advance voting is that those doing so have a wider choice of polling stations (typically post offices, such as the one shown here), whereas on the actual election day the polling stations are fixed, usually schools, libraries or town halls.\n\n \nThe candidates are listed below following their candidate numbers. This list was confirmed by the Electoral District Committee of Helsinki on 15 December 2005.\n\nThe law states that candidate numbers start from number 2. There are various justifications, such as preventing any candidate from using the slogan \"number 1\" for publicity, preventing ambiguity between the numbers 1 and 7, or preventing votes from being accidentally discounted because of a resemblance to a tickmark.\n\nThe main theme of discussion in the campaign preceding the election was the President's powers and whether they should be limited further. The Green League's candidate Heidi Hautala suggested that the President be completely stripped of all powers relating to foreign affairs and foreign policy, but this proposal met with fierce resistance from the three candidates of the largest parties – Tarja Halonen, Matti Vanhanen and Sauli Niinistö. Halonen, the main left-wing candidate and incumbent president, has further indicated that the president's powers should not be increased either, since it would, in her opinion, reduce the degree of democratic decision-making.\n\nAnother important election theme was the threat of international terrorism and how to counter it. The main right-wing candidate, Sauli Niinistö, stated in the last presidential debate that he would consider Finland's membership \"\"in a more European\"\" North Atlantic Treaty Organisation (NATO) after 2008 to achieve such an end, but this was strongly rejected by the other main candidates. The only candidate openly embracing NATO-membership was the other right-wing candidate, Henrik Lax, of the Swedish People's Party. According to a poll carried out by the \"Taloustutkimus\" polling agency in July 2005, most Finnish people believe that NATO membership would increase the risk of international terrorism in Finland instead of decreasing it. This is also the view held by Vanhanen, of the Centre Party, and Halonen.\n\nOther themes included Christian values emphasised by Bjarne Kallis; stronger ties around the Baltic Sea and a stronger European Union by Henrik Lax; criticism of the EU by Timo Soini and the state of entrepreneurship and the returning of Karelia by Arto Lahti.\n\nSauli Niinistö raised the state of work as another theme. His campaign slogan was \"President of the workers\" (\"Työväen presidentti\") and this provoked many union activists and left-wing supporters and voters. However, he was also criticised for trying to lure left-wing voters to vote for him with this slogan. Niinistö's campaign stated that there was neither \"left-wing work\" or \"right-wing work\" but only Finnish work for Finnish welfare.\n\nHere is a collection of latest poll results. The opinion pollsters' methods may vary, as do the samples and the conducting time, which give the differences.\n\nThe total percentages may exceed 100% due to rounding.\n\nTwo of the latest polls made by \"Taloustutkimus\" and \"Suomen Gallup\" raised discussion over whether Halonen would gain the 50%+ majority of the votes necessary to win the election in a single round. According to Helsingin Sanomat, the reason why Halonen's support has decreased in polls might be an increase in the number of people not wanting to reveal their favourite candidate: some of them plead to the secrecy of voting. The airtime and space given by the media for the candidates may have given the candidates with smaller support the opportunity to bring their opinions to the public, which might add to their support in the polls in question.\n\nOn the other hand, the latest poll conducted by Research International () showed no change in Halonen's popularity between the three different weeks.\n\nThe candidates and their supporters read their polls for their advantage. In Timo Soini's mind there was a big surprise waiting in the ballot boxes; he did, in fact, receive 3.4% of the vote, which was much more than the support for his True Finns party in the last parliamentary election. Tarja Halonen stated this election as being the only one showing such a big support to her: \"The crossbar is trembling just right\", she said on January 10, meaning the excitement of getting the majority of the votes. Sauli Niinistö publicly stated that there would be a second round between him and Halonen.\n\nVoting in the Finnish 2006 presidential election took place from 09:00 to 20:00 on both of the two election days, with specifically designated periods for advance voting before both the first and second rounds. Every municipality was required by law to have at least one polling station. Voting was organised abroad for expatriate Finnish citizens at Finnish embassies, consulates and honorary consulates worldwide. The candidates were voted for directly by the electorate. Votes were counted nationally.\n\nThe counting of advance votes started at 15:00, and was expected to finish before 20:00, when the first preliminary results were announced. The preliminary counting of the election day votes began at 20:00, after which the votes were delivered to the central election committee in Helsinki, which performed a recount. The definitive result in Finnish presidential elections is required by law to be confirmed on the following Tuesday at 10:00 at the latest. However, enough votes are normally counted during the first hour after polling stations close for an unofficial, but clear, result to be announced.\n\nResult of advance voting\nA second round run-off was held on 29 January 2006 between Tarja Halonen (Social Democratic Party) and Sauli Niinistö (National Coalition Party).\n\nOpinion polls predicted a close election. A January 19 poll (HS Gallup) gave Halonen 53% and Niinistö 47% of the vote. By comparison, in October 2005 a clear majority of 70% would have voted for Halonen when asked to choose between her and Niinistö.\n\nFour of the six candidates who did not make it to the second round, Matti Vanhanen, Bjarne Kallis, Henrik Lax and Arto Lahti publicly expressed their support for Sauli Niinistö in the runoff election. This reflects a loose alliance termed \"porvariyhteistyö\" in the Finnish media, (roughly translated as \"bourgeois collaboration\"). According to Niinistö and Vanhanen, the main centre-right parties (the National Coalition Party and the Centre Party) had agreed about a year earlier on some level of co-operation to better compete with Halonen, who was supported by both the Social Democrats and Left Alliance.\n\n\nOverall summary:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2007162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007162", "title": "Case method", "text": "Case method\n\nThe case method is a teaching approach that uses decision-forcing cases to put students in the role of people who were faced with difficult decisions at some point in the past. It developed during the course of the twentieth-century from its origins in the casebook method of teaching law pioneered by Harvard legal scholar Christopher C. Langdell. In sharp contrast to many other teaching methods, the case method requires that instructors refrain from providing their own opinions about the decisions in question. Rather, the chief task of instructors who use the case method is asking students to devise, describe, and defend solutions to the problems presented by each case.\nThe case method evolved from the casebook method, a mode of teaching based on Socratic principles pioneered at Harvard Law School by Christopher C. Langdell. Like the casebook method the case method calls upon students to take on the role of an actual person faced with a difficult problem.\n\nA decision-forcing case is a kind of decision game. Like any other kinds of decision games, a decision-forcing case puts students in a role of person faced with a problem (often called the \"protagonist\") and asks them to devise, defend, discuss, and refine solutions to that problem. However, in sharp contrast to decision games that contain fictional elements, decision-forcing cases are based entirely upon reliable descriptions of real events.\n\nA decision-forcing case is also a kind of case study. That is, it is an examination of an incident that took place at some time in the past. However, in contrast to a retrospective case study, which provides a complete description of the events in question, a decision-forcing case is based upon an \"interrupted narrative.\" This is an account that stops whenever the protagonist finds himself faced with an important decision. In other words, while retrospective case studies ask students to analyze past decisions with the aid of hindsight, decision-forcing cases ask students to engage problems prospectively. \n\nIn recent years, following corporate scandals and the global financial crisis, the case method has been criticized for contributing to a narrow, instrumental, amoral, managerial perspective on business where making decisions which maximise profit is all that matters, ignoring the social responsibilities of organisations. It is argued that the case method puts too much emphasis on taking action and not enough on thoughtful reflection to see things from different perspectives. It has been suggested that different approaches to case writing, that do not put students in the ‘shoes’ of a manager, be encouraged to address these concerns. \n\nEvery decision-forcing case has a protagonist, the historical person who was faced with the problem or problem that students are asked to solve. Thus, in engaging these problems, students necessarily engage in some degree of role play.\n\nSome case teachers, such as those of the Marine Corps University, place a great deal of emphasis on role play, to the point of addressing each student with the name and titles of the protagonist of the case. (A student playing the role of a king, for example, is asked \"Your Majesty, what are your orders?\") Other case teachers, such as those at the Harvard Business School, place less emphasis on role play, asking students \"what would you do if you were the protagonist of the case.\"\n\nAfter discussing student solutions to the problem at the heart of a decision-forcing case, a case teacher will often provide a description of the historical solution, that is, the decision made by the protagonist of the case. Also known as \"the rest of the story\", \"the epilogue\", or (particularly at Harvard University) \"the 'B' case\", the description of the historical solution can take the form of a printed article, a video, a slide presentation, a short lecture, or even an appearance by the protagonist.\n\nWhatever the form of the description of the historical solution, the case teacher must take care to avoid giving the impression that the historical solution is the \"right answer.\" Rather, he should point out that the historical solution to the problem serves primarily to provide students with a baseline to which they can compare their own solutions.\n\nSome case teachers will refrain from providing the historical solution to students. One reason for not providing the historical solution is to encourage students to do their own research about the outcome of the case. Another is to encourage students to think about the decision after the end of the class discussion. \"Analytic and problem-solving learning,\" writes Kirsten Lundgren of Columbia University, \"can be all the more powerful when the 'what happened' is left unanswered.\n\nA classic decision-forcing case asks students to solve a single problem faced by a single protagonist at a particular time. There are, however, decision-forcing cases in which students play the role of a single protagonist who is faced with a series of problems, two or more protagonists dealing with the same problem, or two or more protagonists dealing with two or more related problems.\n\nA decision-forcing case conducted in the place where the historical decisions at the heart of the case were made is called a \"decision-forcing staff ride.\" Also known as an \"on-site decision-forcing case\", a decision-forcing staff ride should not be confused with the two very different exercises that are also known as \"staff rides\": retrospective battlefield tours of the type practiced by the United States Army in the twentieth century and the on-site contingency planning exercises (Stabs Reisen, literally \"staff journeys\") introduced by Gerhard von Scharnhorst in 1801 and made famous by the elder Hellmuth von Moltke in the middle years of the nineteenth century.\n\nTo avoid confusion between \"decision-forcing staff rides\" and staff rides of other sorts, the Case Method Project at the Marine Corps University in Quantico, Virginia, adopted the term \"Russell Ride\" to describe the decision-forcing staff rides that it conducts. The term is an homage to Major General John Henry Russell Jr.,USMC, the 16th Commandant of the United States Marine Corps and an avid supporter of the applicatory method of instruction. \n\nDecision-forcing cases are sometimes described with a system of metaphors that compares them to various types of sandwiches. In this system, pieces of bread serve as a metaphor for narrative elements (i.e. the start, continuation, or end of an account) and filling of the sandwich serves as a metaphor for a problem that students are asked to solve.\n\nA decision-forcing case in which one protagonist is faced with two problems is thus a \"triple-decker case.\" (The bottom piece of bread is the background to the first problem, the second piece of bread is both the historical solution to the first problem and the background to the second problem, and the third piece of bread is the historical solution to the second problem.) Similarly, a decision-forcing case for which the historical solution is not provided (and is thus a case with but one narrative element) is an \"open-face\" or \"smørrebrød\" case. \n\nA decision-forcing case in which students are asked to play the role of a decision-maker who is faced with a series of decisions in a relatively short period of time is sometimes called a \"White Castle\", \"slider\" case. or \"day in the life\" case.\n\nCase materials are any materials that are used to inform the decisions made by students in the course of a decision-forcing case. Commonly used case materials include articles that were composed for the explicit purpose of informing case discussion, secondary works initially produced for other purposes, historical documents, artifacts, video programs, and audio programs.\n\nCase materials are made available to students at a variety times in the course of a decision-forcing case. Materials that provide background are distributed at, or before, the beginning of the class meeting. Materials that describe the solution arrived at by the protagonist and the results of that solution are passed out at, or after, the end of the class meeting. (These are called \"the B-case\", \"the rest of the story\", or \"the reveal.\") Materials that provide information that became available to the protagonist in the course of solving the problem are given to students in the course of a class meeting. (These are often referred to as \"handouts.\") \n\nCase materials may be either \"refined\" or \"raw.\" Refined case materials are secondary works that were composed expressly for use as part of decision-forcing cases. (Most of the case materials that are available from case clearing houses and academic publishers are of the refined variety.) Raw case materials are those that were initially produced for reasons other than the informing of a case discussion. These include newspaper articles, video and audio news reports, historical documents, memoirs, interviews, and artifacts.\n\nA number of organizations, to include case clearing houses, academic publishers, and professional schools, publish case materials. These organizations include:\n\nThe presentation of a decision-forcing case necessarily takes the form of a story in which the protagonist is faced with a difficult problem. This can lead to \"the narrative fallacy\", a mistake that leads both case teachers and the developers of case materials to ignore information that, while important to the decision that students will be asked to make, complicates the telling of the story. This, in turn, can create a situation in which, rather than engaging the problem at the heart of the case, students \"parse the case materials.\" That is, they make decisions on the basis of the literary structure of the case materials rather than the underlying reality. \n\nTechniques for avoiding the narrative fallacy include the avoidance of standard formats for case materials; awareness of tropes and clichés; the use of case materials originally created for purposes other than case teaching; and the deliberate inclusion of \"distractors\" - information that is misleading, irrelevant, or at odds with other information presented in the case.\n\nThe case method gives students the ability to quickly make sense of a complex problem, rapidly arrive at a reasonable solution, and communicate that solution to others in a succinct and effective manner. In the course of doing this, the case method also accomplishes a number of other things, each of which is valuable in its own right. By exciting the interest of students, the case method fosters interest in professional matters. By placing such things in a lively context, the case method facilitates the learning of facts, nomenclature, conventions, techniques, and procedures. By providing both a forum for discussion and concrete topics to discuss, the case method encourages professional dialogue. By providing challenging practice in the art of decision-making, the case method refines professional judgement. By asking difficult questions, the case method empowers students to reflect upon the peculiar demands of their profession.\n\nIn his classic essay on the case method (\"Because Wisdom Can't Be Told\"), Charles I. Gragg of the Harvard Business School argued that \"the case system, properly used, initiates students into the ways of independent thought and responsible judgement.\" \n\nWhile the case method can be used to accomplish a wide variety of goals, certain objectives are at odds with its nature as an exercise in professional judgement. These incompatible objectives include attempts to use decision-forcing cases to:\n\n\nThomas W. Shreeve, who uses the case method to teach people in the field of military intelligence, argues that \"Cases are not meant to illustrate either the effective or the ineffective handling of administrative, operational, logistic, ethical, or other problems, and the characters in cases should not be portrayed either as paragons of virtue or as archvillains. The instructor/casewriter must be careful not to tell the students what to think—they are not empty vessels waiting to be filled with wisdom. With this method of teaching, a major share of the responsibility for thinking critically about the issues under discussion is shifted to the students, where it belongs.\" \n\nCase materials are often emblazoned with a disclaimer that warns both teachers and students to avoid the didactic, hortatory, and \"best practices\" fallacies. Here are some examples of such disclaimers:\n\"\n\"\"\n\"\"\n\nThe case method is used in a variety of professional schools. These include the: \n\nUniversity of Fujairah- MBA Program\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2007182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007182", "title": "Bovey Tracey", "text": "Bovey Tracey\n\nBovey Tracey () is a small town and civil parish in Devon, England, on the edge of Dartmoor, its proximity to which gives rise to the \"slogan\" used on the town's boundary signs, \"The Gateway to the Moor\". It is often known locally as \"Bovey\". It is about 10 miles south-west of Exeter and lies on the A382 road, about halfway between Newton Abbot and Moretonhampstead. The village is at the centre of the electoral ward of Bovey. At the 2011 census the population of this ward was 7,721.\n\nBovey Tracey was an established Saxon community and takes its name from the River Bovey. The name first appears in Domesday Book as \"Bovi\" and possibly earlier as \"Buui\". The town gained its second name from the de Tracey family who were lords of the manor after the Norman Conquest, and was first documented as \"Bovitracy\" in 1309.\n\nOne member of the family, William de Tracy, was implicated in the murder of Archbishop Thomas Becket in Canterbury Cathedral in 1170. It is thought that he rebuilt the parish church of St Peter, St Paul and St Thomas of Canterbury as penance for the murder. In the early 13th century Henry de Tracey created a borough here and in 1259 was granted the right to hold a weekly market and an annual three-day fair.\n\nDuring the English Civil War on 9 January 1646, Oliver Cromwell and a contingent of his Roundhead army entered Bovey Tracey after dark and caught part of Lord Wentworth's Regiment by surprise, catching a number of officers playing cards in an inn. Many of Wentworth's Royalist troops escaped, but Cromwell did capture about 400 horse. If local legend is to be believed, the Royalists escaped by throwing coins from the windows in order to distract the poorly paid Roundhead troops. The next day a battle was fought on nearby Bovey Heath ending in victory for Cromwell's army.\n\nThe name of Cromwell lives on in the town today in both the public house \"The Cromwell Arms\" and the remains of a nearby stone arch, known locally (and incorrectly) as \"Cromwell's Arch\". The arch is actually what is left of a priory that stood previously on the site of the nearby Baptist Church.\n\nThe Bovey Tracey Potteries operated from the 1750s for about 200 years.\n\nBovey railway station was opened on 26 June 1866 with the new Moretonhampstead and South Devon Railway on a site to the west of the town. It closed to passengers on 28 February 1959, but goods trains continued to operate until 6 July 1970.\n\nBovey Tracey was twinned with Le Molay-Littry in Normandy, however in February 2018 local Councillors surprisingly discovered that the French town had unexpectedly twinned with another location, Theydon Bois in Essex.\n\nBovey Tracey lies in the valley of the River Bovey at the junction of the A382 road (between Newton Abbot and Moretonhampstead) and the B3387 road (Chudleigh Knighton to Haytor Vale).\n\nSince 1990, the highest recorded temperature was 27 °C (81 °F) in July 2018 and the lowest was -5 °C (23 °F) in February 1991 and March 2018.\nThe town has over a hundred listed buildings. The parish church, at the top of the town, is grade I listed. It has a tower dating from the 14th century, many 15th-century carvings including three misericords, and a screen described by Arthur Mee as \"one of the finest in this county of fine screens\". The church has an unbroken list of vicars from 1258. On Hind Street, the East Dartmoor Baptist Church was built in 1824 and is now grade II listed. Original support for the church came mainly from workers in the Bovey Potteries.\n\nSince 1986, the Devon Guild of Craftsmen contemporary crafts gallery has occupied a building known as Riverside Mill, on the bank of the River Bovey. The building, dating from 1854, has an undershot waterwheel that was used to pump water up to a tank in its tower. The stored water was used as the supply for a nearby house owned by John Divett and to water its stable yard and gardens. Nearby, the Bovey Tracey Heritage Centre in the old Bovey railway station is run by volunteers and is open in the summer months.\n\nOn the outskirts of the town are the House of Marbles, a visitor attraction on the site of the historic pottery; and the headquarters of the Dartmoor National Park Authority at Parke, a large house which is leased to the authority by the National Trust. Also nearby are a Devon Wildlife Trust nature reserve at Bovey Heath and the Haytor Granite Tramway, the route of which runs through the parish, west of the town.\n\nAccording to the town council the town has a \"good mixture of shops\" and there is a farmers' market on alternate Saturday mornings.\n\nThe town also hosts multiple events throughout the year for both tourists and the local community, including: 'Nourish', a food and gin festival held in September; and the 'Contemporary Craft Festival', held in June.\n\nWithin the parish of Bovey Tracey are various historic estates, including:\n\nBovey Tracey is the start point of the Dartmoor Devil bicycle ride, an annual Audax UK \"Brevet Populaire\" event held in late October that takes in over 2,000 m of climbing and over 100 km around and across Dartmoor. The ride ends in nearby Manaton.\n\nThe town has a Non-League football club Bovey Tracey A.F.C. who play at The Western Counties Roofing Ground in the South West Peninsula League.\n\n"}
{"id": "2007187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007187", "title": "Zacharias Dase", "text": "Zacharias Dase\n\nJohann Martin Zacharias Dase (June 23, 1824, Hamburg – September 11, 1861, Hamburg) was a German mental calculator.\n\nHe attended schools in Hamburg from a very early age, but later admitted that his instruction had little influence on him. He used to spend a lot of time playing dominoes, and suggested that this played a significant role in developing his calculating skills. Dase suffered from epilepsy from early childhood throughout his life.\n\nAt age 15 he began to travel extensively, giving exhibitions in Germany, Austria and England. Among his most impressive feats, he multiplied 79532853 × 93758479 in 54 seconds. He multiplied two 20-digit numbers in 6 minutes; two 40-digit numbers in 40 minutes; and two 100-digit numbers in 8 hours 45 minutes. The famous mathematician Carl Friedrich Gauss commented that someone skilled in calculation could have done the 100-digit calculation in about half that time with pencil and paper.\n\nThese exhibitions however did not earn him enough money, so he tried to find other employments. In 1844 he obtained a position in the Railway Department of Vienna, but this didn't last long since in 1845 he was reported in Mannheim and in 1846 in Berlin.\n\nIn 1844, Dase calculated π to 200 decimal places over the course of approximately two months, a record for the time, from the Machin-like formula:\n\nHe also calculated a 7-digit logarithm table and extended a table of integer factorizations from 6,000,000 to 9,000,000.\n\nDase had very little knowledge of mathematical theory. The mathematician Julius Petersen tried to teach him some of Euclid's theorems, but gave up the task once he realized that their comprehension was beyond Dase's capabilities.\nGauss however was very impressed with his calculating skill, and he recommended that the \"Hamburg Academy of Sciences\" should allow Dase to do mathematical work on a full-time basis, but Dase died shortly thereafter.\n\nThe book \"Gödel, Escher, Bach\" by Douglas Hofstadter mentions his calculating abilities. \"... he also had an uncanny sense of quantity. That is, he could just 'tell', without counting, how many sheep were in a field, or words in a sentence, and so forth, up to about 30.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2007189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007189", "title": "Conforming loan", "text": "Conforming loan\n\nIn the United States, a conforming loan is a mortgage loan that conforms to GSE (Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac) guidelines. The most well-known guideline is the size of the loan, which, for 2019, was generally limited to $484,350 for single family homes in the continental US. Other guidelines include borrower's loan-to-value ratio (i.e. the size of down payment), debt-to-income ratio, credit score and history, documentation requirements, etc.\n\nIn general, any loan that does not meet guidelines is a non-conforming loan. A loan that does not meet guidelines specifically because the loan amount exceeds the guideline limits is known as a jumbo loan.\n\nStarting in 1970, Fannie Mae was authorized by the United States Government to purchase residential mortgage loans. Fannie Mae worked with Freddie Mac to develop uniform mortgage documents and national standards for what would come to be known as a \"conforming loan\".\n\nFannie Mae and Freddie Mac are continuously in the market for conforming loans; because of this, conforming loans benefit from greater liquidity than non-conforming loans.\n\nThe Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA) publishes annual conforming loan limits that dictates the mortgages that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac can buy. The maximum loan amount is set based on the October-to-October changes in median home price, above which a mortgage is considered a jumbo loan, and typically has higher rates associated with it. This is because both Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac only buy loans that are conforming, to repackage into the secondary market, making the demand for a non-conforming loan much less. By virtue of the laws of supply and demand, then, it is harder for lenders to sell the loans, thus it would cost more to the consumers (typically 1/4 to 1/2 of a percent.)\n\nA temporary increase in the Conforming Loan Limits for high-cost areas of living was incorporated into the 2008 economic stimulus package. Congress authorized an increase of the single family residences limits to the lesser of $729,750 or 125% of the median home value within a metropolitan statistical area (MSA). The new Jumbo-Conforming program was adopted by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac effective from April 1, 2008 until December 31, 2010. The bill was signed into law by President Bush on February 13, 2008, but the new rates were not being honored by any lenders (as of March 30, 2015).\n\nThe general loan limits for 2017 increased and apply to loans delivered to Fannie Mae in 2017 (even if originated prior to 1/1/2017). This was the first time the base loan limits had increased since 2006. 2018 and 2019 saw a further increase.\n\nPer Fannie Mae:\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki>Counties considered a High Cost Area are listed below:\n"}
{"id": "2007194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007194", "title": "Don McGregor", "text": "Don McGregor\n\nDonald Francis McGregor (born June 15, 1945) is an American comic book writer best known for his work for Marvel Comics, and the author of one of the first graphic novels.\n\nDon McGregor was born in Providence, Rhode Island where he worked myriad jobs as a young adult, including as a security guard, at a bank, at a movie theater, and \"for my grandfather's company, [which] printed, among other things, the patches the astronauts wore on their flights to the moon.\" He additionally served as a supply sergeant in a military police unit of the Rhode Island Army National Guard. His first work in print was in the letters-to-the-editor columns of various Marvel Comics titles and for \"The Providence Journal\", where his work included reviews of books by authors including Evan Hunter, \"who influenced me greatly as a writer.\"\n\nMcGregor entered the comics industry with stories in Warren Publishing's black-and-white horror-comics anthology magazines. His first purchased script \"When Wakes The Dreamer\" did not see print until \"Eerie\" #45 (Feb. 1973), long after his first published script, the 12-page cover story \"The Fade-Away Walk\" in \"Creepy\" #40 (July 1971), credited as Donald F. McGregor, with art by Tom Sutton. Through 1975, he wrote more than a dozen stories for those magazines and its sister title \"Vampirella\", drawn by artists including Richard Corben and Reed Crandall. Of \"When Wakes the Dreamer\", he explained decades later, \"[W]hat held it up was that [artist and Warren art director] Billy Graham was going to draw it and he'd done a spectacular opening page for it, but for one reason or another, it just didn't happen. ... I don't think we ever found the finished art for Billy's version of another early story of mine, 'The Vampiress Stalks the Castle This Night.'\" That story eventually appeared in \"Vampirella\" #21 (Dec. 1972), with art by Felix Mas. After a stint with Marvel, McGregor returned to write another 18 stories for those Warren titles as well as \"The Rook\" between 1979 and 1983, with artists including Paul Gulacy, Alfredo Alcala, and Val Mayerik.\n\nMcGregor became a proofreader for Marvel Comics in late 1972, earning $125 a week, before establishing himself as a Marvel editor and writer. His first stories for the company were co-writing, with Gardner Fox, the six-page supernatural story \"The Man with Two Faces\" in \"Journey into Mystery\" vol. 2, #4 (April 1973; credited as \"Donald F. McGregor\"); and, solo, the six-page \"A Tomb By Any Other Name\", with art by Syd Shores, in \"Chamber of Chills\" #5 (July 1973).\n\nHe recalled in 2010,\nWith those two features, which became among comics' most acclaimed, McGregor soon established himself as one of a 1970s wave of Marvel writers, including Steve Englehart, Steve Gerber and Doug Moench, who took often minor characters and helped create a writerly Renaissance. Former Marvel editor-in-chief Roy Thomas said in 2007,\n\nMcGregor wrote \"Killraven, Warrior of the Worlds\" in \"Amazing Adventures\" vol. 2, #21-39 (Nov. 1973 - Nov. 1976, except for fill-in issues #33 and 38); and \"Black Panther\" in \"Jungle Action\" #6-24 (Sept. 1973 - Nov. 1976, except for #23, a reprint). Comics historian Les Daniels noted that, \"The scripts by Don McGregor emphasized the character's innate dignity.\" Unusually for mainstream comics, the Panther stories were set mostly in Africa, in the Panther's fictional homeland Wakanda rather than in Marvel's usual American settings. As with the futuristic stories of “Killraven”, McGregor's settings were enough outside the Marvel mainstream that he was able to explore mature themes and adult relationships in a way rare for comics at the time. In 2010, Comics Bulletin ranked McGregor's run on \"Jungle Action\" third on its list of the \"Top 10 1970s Marvels\".\n\nArtist Rich Buckler, his first \"Black Panther\" collaborator, called McGregor and fellow Marvel writer Doug Moench \"two of my absolutely favorite writers. They had the same drive and enthusiasm, and just huge amounts of talent and energy.\" African-American writer-editor Dwayne McDuffie said of the 1970s \"Black Panther\" series:\nHe and artist P. Craig Russell engineered color comic books' first known dramatic interracial kiss in mainstream comics (as opposed to underground comix), between the \"Killraven\" characters M'Shulla and Carmilla Frost, in \"Amazing Adventures\" #31 (July 1975). Three years earlier, McGregor and artist Luis Garcia had already presented the first known interracial kiss in any comics in Warren Publishing's black-and-white horror-comics magazine, \"Creepy\" #43 (Jan. 1972), in the story \"The Men Who Called Him Monster\".\n\nMore than two decades after the \"Killraven\" feature ended, comics historian Peter Sanderson wrote that,\nMcGregor's run on \"Jungle Action\" ended when the series was canceled due to low sales. He also wrote stories for the Marvel characters Luke Cage and Morbius the Living Vampire, and created the detective feature \"Hodiah Twist\", seen in the black-and-white magazines \"Vampire Tales\" #2 (Oct. 1973) and \"Marvel Preview\" #16: \"Masters of Terror\" (Fall 1978). McGregor wrote an adaptation of Edgar Allan Poe's \"The Cask of Amontillado\" as a backup story in \"Marvel Classics Comics\" #28 (1977). This would be Michael Golden's first published comics work. A Marvel \"Bullpen Bulletins\" page in 1975 announced McGregor's planned radio drama series, \"Night Figure\", that was to have run on WHBI-FM.\n\nWith artist Paul Gulacy, McGregor created one of the first modern graphic novels, Eclipse Enterprises' \"Sabre: Slow Fade of an Endangered Species\", a near-future, dystopian science fiction swashbuckler that introduced the title character. McGregor's work premiered in August 1978, two months before Will Eisner's better-known graphic novel \"A Contract with God\". \"Sabre\" was additionally the first graphic novel sold through the new \"direct market\" of comic-book stores. It later spun off a 14-issue Eclipse comic-book series.\n\nAlso for Eclipse, McGregor wrote \"Detectives Inc.\", a pair of graphic novels set in contemporary New York City and starring the interracial private eye team Ted Denning and Bob Rainier. \"Detectives Inc.: A Remembrance of Threatening Green\" (1980), with DC Comics artist Marshall Rogers, and \"Detectives, Inc.: A Terror Of Dying Dreams\", with veteran Marvel artist Gene Colan, who would become a frequent collaborator, comprised the series. The first of these two books included the first lesbian characters in mass-market comics.\n\nDuring this period, McGregor also wrote the two prose works \"Dragonflame and Other Bedtime Nightmares\" and \"The Variable Syndrome\".\n\nOther work includes the DC Comics' miniseries \"Nathaniel Dusk\" (1984) and \"Nathaniel Dusk II\" (1985–1986), both with Colan; and, for New Media Publishing's \"Fantasy Illustrated\" (1982), \"The Hounds of Hell Theory\", starring the husband-and-wife detective team Alexander and Penelope Risk, with artist Tom Sutton.\n\nMcGregor revisited the Black Panther with Colan in \"Panther's Quest\", published as 25 eight-page installments within the biweekly omnibus series \"Marvel Comics Presents\" (issues #13–37, Feb.–Dec. 1989); and, later, with artist Dwayne Turner in the squarebound miniseries \"Panther's Prey\" (May–Oct. 1991). McGregor and Marshall Rogers crafted a two-part story in \"\" issues #27–28 dealing with bullying and gun violence. Other comic book work in the 1990s includes \"Blade\" #1–3 (Nov. 1998–Jan. 1999), starring the Marvel Comics vampire-slayer; the 14-page Morbius, the Living Vampire story \"Desiring Martine\", with artist Mike Dringenberg, in the Marvel one-shot \"Strange Tales: Dark Corners\" #1 (May 1998); and various issues of such Topps Comics licensed properties as \"Mars Attacks!\", James Bond, the Lone Ranger, and \"The X-Files\". McGregor wrote \"Thin Edge of a Dime\", a Batman Black and White backup story, in \"\" #28 (June 2002) which was illustrated by Dick Giordano.\n\nAs well, McGregor is one of the primary writers of the Zorro canon, with a dozen issues of Topps' \"Zorro\" (#0–11, Nov. 1993–Nov. 1994) and the spinoff \"Lady Rawhide\" #1–5 (Oct. 1996–June 1997; reprinted by Image Comics as \"Zorro's Lady Rawhide: Other People's Blood\" #1–4, March–June 1999); two years of the \"Zorro\" newspaper comic strip (with artists Tod Smith and Thomas Yeates, premiering April 12, 1999, with the first year collected in a 2001 Image Comics book); \"Zorro\" #1–6 (May-Oct. 2005), with artist Sidney Lima, from the NBM Publishing imprint Papercutz; and 2010's \"Zorro: Matanzas\", a sequel to the Topps series, with penciler Mike Mayhew, for Dynamite Entertainment.\nMcGregor contributed a story to the \"Black Panther Annual\" #1, released in February 2018.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "2007197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007197", "title": "Dōkyō", "text": "Dōkyō\n\nDōkyō was born in Kawachi Province. His family, the Yuge no Muraji, were part of the provincial gentry. He was taught both by a Confucian teacher and by the Abbot Gien of the Eihei-ji. Under Gien he learned Sanskrit. Subsequently, Dōkyō lived as an ascetic for several years in the Kongō Range on Honshu, where he practiced meditation and sutras; both of these practices were concerned with the acquisition of magical powers. In 748 he is recorded as being at the Todai-ji under Rōben, and in 749 he participated in a sutra copying ceremony in Nara, and was called to the Kōken's court three years later.\n\nWhen Dōkyō cured the illness of Kōken in 761, after she had abdicated in 758, he attained a secure and influential place in her court; she initially regarded him as her healer and spiritual adviser, before turning to him for political advice as well. According to some accounts, he also became her lover. When Junnin attempted to remonstrate with her over this latter issue, she rebuffed him and granted Dōkyō greater powers and authority. She appointed him \"shōsōzu\" in 763, an important position in the Buddhist hierarchy. Fujiwara no Nakamaro, a favourite of the Emperor Junnin, was angered by this decision, but failed in his attempt to oppose Dōkyō - he was exiled. When Kōken returned to the throne as Empress Shōtoku following Fujiwara no Nakamaro's unsuccessful rebellion, Dōkyō was made daijō-daijin within a year, giving him authority over both civil and religious affairs.\n\nIn 766, he was granted a new position, \"hō-ō\"; in 767 this position was altered to include military authority. The next year, in 768, Dōkyō persuaded an oracle from the Usa Shrine in Buzen Province to predict peace in Japan if Dōkyō were named emperor. This angered the ruling class, including the powerful Fujiwara clan. Hence, a second oracle was brought to Kyoto by Wake no Kiyomaro. It stated:\nSince the establishment of our state, the distinction between lord and subject has been fixed. Never has there been an occasion when a subject was made lord. The throne of the Heavenly Sun Succession shall be given to one of the imperial lineage; wicked persons should immediately be swept away.\nIn response to the second oracle, Dōkyō had Wake no Kiyomaro sent into exile in Ōsumi Province.\n\nDuring this period, the height of his political power and influence, Dōkyō built a temple in Yao, Osaka. It was sponsored by Shōtoku. Its foundations were discovered by archaeologists in 2017. Additionally, existing temples received extravagant donations and ongoing building projects were accelerated and expanded. The Usa Shrine also received grants of land.\n\nDōkyō also actively spread Buddhist principles and the religion itself. Laws were issued banning the raising of dogs and hawks for hunting, and meat and fish were disallowed from presentation to the emperor's table. \n\nMoreover, the power of the great clans, such as the Fujiwara, was reduced and limited during this period.\n\nWhen the empress died in 770, Dōkyō was stripped of his titles and banished from Nara, sent to Shimotsuke Province; the Fujiwara clan reasserted its authority over both the monastic institutions and the broader political landscape.\n\n"}
{"id": "2007201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007201", "title": "Rapakivi granite", "text": "Rapakivi granite\n\nRapakivi granite is a hornblende-biotite granite containing large round crystals of orthoclase each with a rim of oligoclase (a variety of plagioclase). The name has come to be used most frequently as a textural term where it implies plagioclase rims around orthoclase in plutonic rocks. Rapakivi is Finnish for \"crumbly rock\", because the different heat expansion coefficients of the component minerals make exposed rapakivi crumbly.\n\nRapakivi was first described by Finnish petrologist Jakob Sederholm in 1891. Since then, southern Finland's rapakivi granite intrusions have been the type locality of this variety of granite.\n\nRapakivi is a fairly uncommon type of granite, but has been described from localities in North and South America (Illescas Batholith, Uruguay, Rondônia, Brazil) parts of the Baltic Shield, southern Greenland, southern Africa, India and China. Most of these examples are found within Proterozoic metamorphic belts, although both Archaean and Phanerozoic examples are known.\n\nRapakivi granites have formation ages from Archean to recent and are usually attributed to anorogenic tectonic settings. They have formed in shallow (a few km deep) sills of up to 10 km thickness.\n\nRapakivi granites are often found associated with intrusions of anorthosite, norite, charnockite and mangerite. It has been suggested that the entire suite results from the fractional crystallization of a single parental magma.\n\nRapakivi is enriched in K, Rb, Pb, Nb, Ta, Zr, Hf, Zn, Ga, Sn, Th, U, F and rare earth elements, and poor in Ca, Mg, Al, P and Sr. Fe/Mg, K/Na and Rb/Sr ratios are high. SiO content is 70.5%, which makes rapakivi an acidic granite.\n\nRapakivi is high in fluoride, ranging 0.04–1.53%, compared to other similar rocks at around 0.35%. Consequently, groundwater in rapakivi zones is high in fluoride (1–2 mg/l), making the water naturally fluoridated. Some water companies actually have to remove fluoride from the water.\n\nThe uranium content of rapakivi is fairly high, up to 24 ppm. Thus, in rapakivi zones, the hazard from radon, a decay product of uranium, is elevated. Some indoor spaces surpass the 400 Bq/m safety limit.\nVorma (1976) states that rapakivi granites can be defined as:\n\nA more recent definition by Haapala & Rämö states:\n\nRapakivi granites are type-A granites, where at least in larger associated batholites have granites with rapakivi structures.\nRapakivi is the material used in Åland's mediaeval stone churches. In 1770 a rapakivi granite monolith boulder, the \"Thunder Stone\", was used as the pedestal for the Bronze Horseman statue in Saint Petersburg, Russia. Weighing 1,250 tonnes, this boulder is claimed to be the largest stone ever moved by humans. Modern building uses of rapakivi granites are in polished slabs used for covering buildings, floors, counter tops or pavements. As a building material, rapakivi granite of the wiborgite type is also known as \"Baltic Brown\".\n"}
{"id": "2007204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007204", "title": "Meeker Island Lock and Dam", "text": "Meeker Island Lock and Dam\n\nThe Meeker Island Lock and Dam (originally known as Lock and Dam No. 2) was the first lock and dam facility built on the Upper Mississippi River. Meeker Island was named after its owner Judge Bradley B. Meeker. Meeker County was named after him also. After a construction period lasting eight years, the site was only in operation for five years from 1907 to 1912 when the growing interest in hydroelectric power led to design and construction of today's Lock and Dam No. 1 a few miles downriver. It was realized that the new dam could take over the function provided by this first site and another small dam a short distance downriver.\n\nLock and Dam No. 1 opened in 1917, and a hydroelectric plant was added there in the 1920s to power the Ford Motor Company's Twin Cities Assembly Plant. The Meeker Island dam was demolished, although some ruins of the lock remain. Tops of the old lock walls become visible during low water periods on the river. It is located in the Desnoyer Park neighborhood, north of the Lake Street-Marshall Bridge connecting Minneapolis and Saint Paul, Minnesota.\n\nThe Meeker Island Lock and Dam ruins were added to the National Register of Historic Places in 2003.\n\nEach year, National Park Service historian Dr. John Anfinson and the Friends of the Mississippi River lead a tour of the lock and dam ruins.\n\nIn 2005 a $380,000 restoration project began to create a public park near the dam. It was finished in 2007.\n"}
{"id": "2007209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007209", "title": "Kingsclere", "text": "Kingsclere\n\nKingsclere is a large village and civil parish in Hampshire, England.\n\nKingsclere is approximately equidistant ) from the towns of Basingstoke and Newbury on the A339 road.\n\nKingsclere can trace back its history to a place identified as belonging to King Alfred in his will between 872 and 888, the 'clere' possibly meaning 'bright' or 'clearing'.\nKingsclere formed part of the ancient demesne of the Crown.\nIn his will King Alfred left Kingsclere for life to his second daughter, Ethelgiva, Abbess of Shaftesbury,\nand there are other mentions of it in Saxon charters. In 931 King Athelstan at a Witenagemot at Colchester granted 10 hides of land at Clere to Abbot Aelfric, and in 943 King Edmund bestowed 15 hides of land at Clere on the 'religious woman Aelfswith'.\nWhile sixteen years later King Edgar gave his thegn Aelfwine 10 hides of land at West Clere.\n\nLocal legend asserts that King John was troubled by a bedbug during a night in a Kingsclere inn, when prevented by fog from reaching his lodge at Freemantle Park on Cottington's hill. He ordained that the church should erect and evermore maintain upon its tower a representation of the creature that had disturbed his sleep. It is recorded that King John stayed at Freemantle Park on 8 and 9 September 1204\n\nIn 1218, the king ordered that the market which had been held in Kingsclere on Sundays should in the future be held on Saturdays. Warner, writing in the 18th century, mentions a well-frequented market on Tuesdays, and fairs the first Tuesday in April and the first Tuesday after 10 October. In 1848 the market was still held on Tuesdays, but had fallen very much into disuse, only a few farmers meeting at the Swan Inn with samples, and it probably ceased altogether about 1850. The fairs continued (c. 1911) to be held—on Whit Tuesday for pleasure on Ashford Hill and the Tuesday after Old Michaelmas Day for hiring servants and pleasure in the market place.\n\nThe former Falcon Inn, in Swan street, one of the oldest in Hampshire, is especially interesting as being at one time in the possession of William Warham, Archbishop of Canterbury, who in 1510 gave it to Winchester College upon trust for the maintenance and support of the scholars upon its foundation.\nThe original 'Crowne' Inn is mentioned in the parish register in 1611 and the 'Golden Faucon' in 1628. The modern Crown Inn was built in 1853 and the Swan Inn dates back to well before 1848. Its sign proclaims it a \"15th C. Rooming Inn\".\n\nThe nearby Watership Down is the setting for the 1972 novel of the same name by Richard Adams.\n\nWatership Down was also the site of the 1982 World Field Archery Championship put on by the Overton Black Arrows archery club from the nearby village of Overton.\n\nThe actress Lavinia Fenton, most famous for her role as the first Polly Peachum in John Gay's The Beggar's Opera, was lover and then wife of Charles Powlett, 3rd Duke of Bolton of the parish. Their eldest son, Rev. Charles Powlett, was briefly vicar of Kingsclere.\n\nLivelihood Countryside March, 2002. Grew up at Stanton's farm.\n\n\n\n\n\nThe manor of Frobury is the western part of the modern parish of Kingsclere. In addition to Frobury the manors of North Oakley, Hannington, Sydmonton, Edmundsthorp Benham (Headley, and Beenham Court or Cheam School) and Ecchinswell used to be a part of the parish of Kingsclere.\n\nThe Highclere, Kingsclere and Basingstoke Light Railway was a proposed (circa 1896-1900) light railway connecting the Didcot, Newbury and Southampton Railway (DNSR) with the London and South Western Railway (LSWR). Despite public support of the railway proposal, sufficient funding was never obtained and the idea was abandoned.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2007218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007218", "title": "John Finnis", "text": "John Finnis\n\nJohn Mitchell Finnis, (born 28 July 1940) is an Australian legal philosopher, jurist and scholar specializing in jurisprudence and the philosophy of law. He is currently the Biolchini Family Professor of Law at Notre Dame Law School and Permanent Senior Distinguished Research Fellow at the Notre Dame Center for Ethics and Culture. He was Professor of Law & Legal Philosophy at the University of Oxford from 1989 to 2010, where he is now professor emeritus. He acted as a constitutional adviser to successive Australian Commonwealth governments in constitutional matters and bilateral relations with the United Kingdom.\n\nHis academic focus is in the areas of jurisprudence, political theory, and constitutional law, while his practice at the English Bar saw him in cases at the High Court and at the Court of Appeal. He is a member of Gray's Inn. He was appointed an honorary Queen's Counsel in 2017. In 2019 he was appointed a Companion of the Order of Australia (AC), Australia's highest civilian award.\n\nFinnis was educated at St. Peter's College, Adelaide and the University of Adelaide, where he was a member of St. Mark's College. He obtained his Bachelor of Laws (LL.B) degree there, winning a Rhodes scholarship to University College, Oxford, in 1962, where he obtained his Doctor of Philosophy degree with a thesis on the concept of judicial power, with reference to Australian federal constitutional law. Also in 1962, Finnis converted to Roman Catholicism.\n\nFinnis was a friend of Aung San Suu Kyi, also an Oxford graduate; and, in 1989, Finnis nominated her for the Nobel Peace Prize. Aung San Suu Kyi won the prize but did not receive it until June 2012, when she recalled how her late husband, Michael Aris, had visited her under house arrest and brought her the news \"that a friend, John Finnis\" had nominated her for the prize.\n\nFinnis is a legal philosopher and author of \"Natural Law and Natural Rights\" (1980, 2011), a seminal contribution to the philosophy of law and a restatement of natural law doctrine. For Finnis there are seven basic goods; life, knowledge, play, aesthetic experience, sociability of friendship, practical reasonableness and religion. In his book on Finnis' student Neil Gorsuch while at Oxford University, John Greenya has described Finnis's views by stating: \"Some of John Finnis's views are very controversial. For example, in defending his long-held position against same-sex marriage and same-sex coupling, he once compared them to bestiality.\"\n\nPhilosopher Stephen Buckle sees Finnis's list of proposed basic goods as plausible, but notes that \"Finnis's account becomes more controversial when he goes on to specify the basic requirements of practical reasonableness\". He sees Finnis's requirement that practical reason requires \"respect for every basic value in every act\" as intended both to rule out consequentialism in ethics and also to support the moral viewpoint of the Catholic Church on a range of contentious issues, including contraception and masturbation, which in his view undermines its plausibility.\n\nFinnis's work on natural law ethics has been a source of controversy in both neo-Thomist and analytical circles. Craig Paterson sees his work as interesting because it challenges a key assumption of both neo-Thomist and analytical philosophy: the idea that a natural law ethics must be based upon an attempt to derive normative (or \"ought\") statements from descriptive (or \"is\") statements.\n\nAccording to Andrew Sullivan, Finnis has articulated \"an intelligible and subtle account of homosexuality\" based on the new natural law, a less biologically-based version of natural law theory. Finnis argues that the state should deter public approval of homosexual behaviour while refusing to persecute individuals on the basis of their sexual orientation, basing this position not on the claim that homosexual sex is unnatural but on the idea that it cannot involve the union of procreation and emotional commitment that heterosexual sex can, and is therefore an assault on heterosexual union. Sullivan believes that such a conservative position is vulnerable to criticism on its own terms, since the stability of existing families is better served by the acceptance of those homosexuals who are part of them. Other scholars, such as Stephen Macedo and Michael J. Perry, have also criticised Finnis's views.\n\nHe has supervised several PhD students including Neil Gorsuch, Justice Susan Kenny of the Federal Court of Australia, and Robert P. George.\n\nIn the 2019 Queen's Birthday Honours List in Australia, Finnis was appointed a Companion in the General Division of the Order of Australia, the country's highest civilian honour for his eminent service as a jurist and legal scholar.\n\nIn May 2011, Oxford University Press published a five-volume collection of essays by John Finnis and a second edition of \"Natural Law and Natural Rights\". Their release was marked by an all-day conference at the Notre Dame Law School on 9 September 2011.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2007225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007225", "title": "Consolidation (business)", "text": "Consolidation (business)\n\nIn business, consolidation or amalgamation is the merger and acquisition of many smaller companies into a few much larger ones. In the context of financial accounting, \"consolidation\" refers to the aggregation of financial statements of a group company as consolidated financial statements. The taxation term of consolidation refers to the treatment of a group of companies and other entities as one entity for tax purposes. Under the Halsbury's Laws of England, 'amalgamation' is defined as \"a blending together of two or more undertakings into one undertaking, the shareholders of each blending company, becoming, substantially, the shareholders of the blended undertakings. There may be amalgamations, either by transfer of two or more undertakings to a new company, or to the transfer of one or more companies to an existing company\".\n\nConsolidation is the practice, in business, of legally combining two or more organizations into a single new one. Upon consolidation, the original organizations cease to exist and are supplanted by a new entity.\n\n\nThere are three forms of business combinations:\n\n\nA parent company can acquire another company by purchasing its net assets or by purchasing a majority share of its common stock. Regardless of the method of acquisition; direct costs, costs of issuing securities and indirect costs are treated as follows:\n\nTreatment to the acquiring company:\nWhen purchasing the net assets the acquiring company records in its books the receipt of the net assets and the disbursement of cash, the creation of a liability or the issuance of stock as a form of payment for the transfer.\n\nTreatment to the acquired company:\nThe acquired company records in its books the elimination of its net assets and the receipt of cash, receivables or investment in the acquiring company (if what was received from the transfer included common stock from the purchasing company). If the acquired company is liquidated then the company needs an additional entry to distribute the remaining assets to its shareholders.\n\nTreatment to the purchasing company:\nWhen the purchasing company acquires the subsidiary through the purchase of its common stock, it records in its books the investment in the acquired company and the disbursement of the payment for the stock acquired.\n\nTreatment to the acquired company:\nThe acquired company records in its books the receipt of the payment from the acquiring company and the issuance of stock.\n\nFASB 141 Disclosure Requirements:\nFASB 141 requires disclosures in the notes of the financial statements when business combinations occur. Such disclosures are:\n\nTreatment of goodwill impairments:\n\nWhen a company purchases 20% or less of the outstanding common stock, the purchasing company's influence over the acquired company is not significant. (APB 18 specifies conditions where ownership is less than 20% but there is significant influence).\n\nThe purchasing company uses the cost method to account for this type of investment. Under the cost method, the investment is recorded at cost at the time of purchase. The company does not need any entries to adjust this account balance unless the investment is considered impaired or there are liquidating dividends, both of which reduce the investment account.\n\n\"Liquidating dividends\" : Liquidating dividends occur when there is an excess of dividends declared over earnings of the acquired company since the date of acquisition. Regular dividends are recorded as dividend income whenever they are declared.\n\n\"Impairment loss\" : An impairment loss occurs when there is a decline in the value of the investment other than temporary.\n\nWhen the amount of stock purchased is between 20% and 50% of the common stock outstanding, the purchasing company's influence over the acquired company is often significant. The deciding factor, however, is significant influence. If other factors exist that reduce the influence or if significant influence is gained at an ownership of less than 20%, the equity method may be appropriate (FASB interpretation 35 (FIN 35) underlines the circumstances where the investor is unable to exercise significant influence).\n\nTo account for this type of investment, the purchasing company uses the equity method. Under the equity method, the purchaser records its investment at original cost. This balance increases with income and decreases for dividends from the subsidiary that accrue to the purchaser.\n\nTreatment of \"Purchase Differentials\": At the time of purchase, purchase differentials arise from the difference between the cost of the investment and the book value of the underlying assets.\n\nPurchase differentials have two components:\n\nPurchase differentials need to be amortized over their useful life; however, new accounting guidance states that goodwill is not amortized or reduced until it is permanently impaired, or the underlying asset is sold.\n\nWhen the amount of stock purchased is more than 50% of the outstanding common stock, the purchasing company has control over the acquired company. Control in this context is defined as ability to direct policies and management. In this type of relationship the controlling company is the parent and the controlled company is the subsidiary. The parent company needs to issue consolidated financial statements at the end of the year to reflect this relationship.\n\nConsolidated financial statements show the parent and the subsidiary as one single entity. During the year, the parent company can use the equity or the cost method to account for its investment in the subsidiary. Each company keeps separate books. However, at the end of the year, a consolidation working paper is prepared to combine the separate balances and to eliminate the intercompany transactions, the subsidiary's stockholder equity and the parent's investment account. The result is one set of financial statements that reflect the financial results of the consolidated entity.\nThere are three forms of combination:\n1. horizontal integration: is the combination of firms in the same business lines and markets.\n2. vertical integration: is the combination of firms with operations in different but successive stages of production or distribution or both.\n3. Conglomeration: is the combination of firms with unrelated and diverse products or services functions, or both.\n\n"}
{"id": "2007231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007231", "title": "Joseph Forsyth Johnson", "text": "Joseph Forsyth Johnson\n\nJoseph Forsyth Johnson (1840 – 17 July 1906) was an English landscape architect and disciple of John Ruskin.\n\nJohnson was the son of Joseph Johnson, a baker. He had a family background in horticulture. His Scottish maternal grandfather John Forsyth, a florist, was the son of William Forsyth, a botanist who co-founded the Royal Horticultural Society in 1804.\n\nJohnson had a successful career designing the grounds for a number of large houses in England, Ireland, and Russia. By 1869, he was the Curator of the Royal Botanic Gardens in Belfast. He subsequently set up a landscape gardening shop on Bond Street in London.\n\nHe went to the United States of America in 1885 where he was employed by Prospect Park in Brooklyn, New York City, as superintendent of horticulture. The park was overgrown and his plan was to create a number of vistas so the entirety of the large park would be visible. This would have necessitated the removal of a large number of trees, which proved unacceptable to the community. As a result, Johnson was terminated from the project.\n\nA recommendation in 1887 by New York florist Peter Henderson convinced Joel Hurt to bring Johnson to Atlanta to work on his streetcar suburb, Inman Park. Johnson went to Atlanta and he spent the next five years there. He joined Hurt again for Piedmont Park.\n\nIn 1891, he designed Latta Park in Charlotte, North Carolina and the next year may have designed the neighborhood of Cloverdale in Montgomery, Alabama.\n\nHe married Elizabeth Trowsdale (born 1832) on 12 January 1861, by whom he had six children: John Forsyth Johnson (born 1861), Charles (born 1862), Georgiana Mary Alice (born 1864), Elizabeth (born 1868), Joseph and Christina (born 1873). He moved to America in 1885 with Frances Clarke, who was then pregnant and who was included on the passenger list as his wife. They had three children: Roy Albert Johnson (1886–1939), Cecil Forsyth Johnson (1887–1951), and Edwina Johnson Mundy (1891–1969). Johnson's great grandson by his first marriage was the British entertainer Bruce Forsyth (1928–2017). Forsyth appeared on the BBC One genealogy television show \"Who Do You Think You Are?\" researching his great grandfather Joseph, in particular any information relating to his American family.\n\nDespite the question of bigamy arising in this documentary, there is no record for Johnson's marriage to Frances Clarke, although she is shown to have been recorded as both Frances Clarke Johnson and Frances Forsyth Johnson.\n\nJohnson's American family were informed that he had died while travelling to Great Britain and had been buried at sea. In fact he had abandoned his American family just as he had previously abandoned his English wife and children. The reality was that he had returned to England to visit his family there, later going back to the United States. In the next decade he visited England on several other occasions before he died in Brooklyn, New York in 1906. Johnson was buried there at Evergreen Cemetery in an unmarked grave. He died with only $389 to his name after living for several years in a hotel, leaving no last will or testament.\n\nAfter visiting his great grandfather's unmarked grave at Evergreens Cemetery, Bruce Forsyth commissioned a headstone in memory, to mark Joseph Forsyth Johnson's life and work.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2007239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007239", "title": "Archduchess Elisabeth Franziska of Austria", "text": "Archduchess Elisabeth Franziska of Austria\n\nArchduchess Elisabeth Franziska Maria of Austria (17 January 1831 – 14 February 1903) was born in Ofen (Buda), Hungary, the daughter of Palatine Joseph of Hungary (1776–1847) and his third wife Maria Dorothea of Württemberg (1797–1855).\n\nHer first marriage, on 4 October 1847 in Vienna, was to her second cousin Archduke Ferdinand Karl Viktor of Austria-Este (1821–1849), by whom she had one daughter: \n\nHer second marriage, on 18 April 1854, in Vienna, was to her first cousin Archduke Karl Ferdinand of Austria (1818–1874) by whom she had six children:\n\n\nElisabeth died at her son's \"palais\", the Albertina, Vienna, of pneumonia. She is buried in Baden bei Wien, where there is a street named after her.\n"}
{"id": "2007250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007250", "title": "William Schimmel", "text": "William Schimmel\n\nWilliam Schimmel (born 1946) is one of the principal architects in the resurgence of the accordion, and the philosophy of \"Musical Reality\" (composition with pre-existing music). He holds Bachelor of Music, Master of Science and Doctor of Musical Arts degrees in composition from the Juilliard School, along with a diploma from the Neupauer Conservatory of Music in performance/composition. He performs music in many genres, has commissioned and premiered hundreds of new works, has composed over 4000 works in every medium, has written a number of books and articles and has made numerous recordings and videos. He has composed over 4000 works in every medium including opera which have been performed by leading performers, ensembles and conductors including the Late Leopold Stokowski. His music has been featured in a number of films, most notably \"Scent of a Woman\" starring Al Pacino, where he appears in the famous Tango Scene with The Tango Project which he is a founding member and television shows.\n\nHe received a Composers' Citation from The American Accordionists' Association in honor of his composition, \"The Spring Street Ritual\", which was the test piece for the 1979 Coupe Mondiale World Competition. He received The Confédération internationale des accordéonistes Merit Award for his contributions as a composer, performer and philosopher on the international accordion scene. He received a Merit Award from the American Accordionists' Association for his contributions spanning fifty years plus the \"Accordionist of the Year\" Award in 1988. He received the Keyboard magazine readers' poll award in 1992 as \"Best Accordionist\". He has served and continues to serve as Artist in Residence of The American Accordionist's where he also serves as Distinguished Lecturer in Residence and member of the Governing Board. National Public Radio called Schimmel the world's greatest accordionist. New Yorker Magazine called him Gotham's Happy Warrior of the Accordion. Accordion Star Illustrated Magazine called him the World's most important accordionist and inducted him into the American Accordion Hall of fame. Schimmel won the Stereo Review Album of the year award, and was nominated for a Grammy award.\nWhile at Juilliard, Schimmel was awarded two teaching fellowships and twice awarded the Rodgers and Hammerstein Scholarship in composition.\nSchimmel is also the recipient of Grants from The American Music Center, International Society for Contemporary Music, Meet the Composer and I-Park.\n\nHe has performed with most major symphony orchestras in the U.S, including The Kirov, has been performing with the New York Philharmonic for 45 years, has a long performing and recording relationship with the Minnesota Orchestra, virtually every chamber group in New York, The Met and City Opera as well as with rock (most notably Tom Waits), jazz (most notably Ted Nash's Odeon and The Jazz at Lincoln Center orchestra), and avant-garde groups (including ICE, Talea, The Absolute Ensemble, North South Consonance, Composers Concordance and The Argento Ensemble). In addition, he has appeared on numerous radio programs as a guest performer and commentator, including New Sounds with John Schaffer and Fresh Air with Terry Gross (as well as Best of Fresh Air) and now co - hosts, with Brian Dewan, his own internet radio show, The Old In and Out, on WS Accordion Radio.\n\nSchimmel conducts a yearly three-day Master Class and Concert Series (The Seminars) sponsored by the American Accordionists' Association, dedicated to the exploration and establishment of an accordion culture, which is in its twenty sixth season. He recently curated a six day accordion event, Accordion Mixology, at Lincoln Center in celebration on the acquisition of his archives. He has served on the faculties of numerous colleges including The Juilliard School, Brooklyn College CUNY, Dean of Neupauer Conservatory, New York University, New School University and many others.\n\nHe is known as an authority of the music of Kurt Weill and has recorded all of Weill's music which includes the accordion.\n\nHe is married to dancer, choreographer, director and filmmaker, Micki Goodman. Together they founded the Studio Muse Dance/Music/Theatre Troup and produced concerts in the New York, New Jersey and Philadelphia area. They have collaborated on numerous videos which can be seen on You Tube. They have one son who is a visual artist.\n\nWith Ted Nash\na complete listing of his recordings are available on www.billschimmel.com\n\n"}
{"id": "2007252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007252", "title": "Pounce (calligraphy)", "text": "Pounce (calligraphy)\n\nPounce is a fine powder, most often made from powdered cuttlefish bone, that was used both to dry ink and to sprinkle on a rough writing surface to make it smooth enough for writing. This last was certainly needed if the paper came \"unsized\", that is, lacking the thin gelatinous material used to fill the surface of the paper and make it smooth enough for writing with a quill or a steel nib. It was also used to prepare the surface when drafting with Rapidograph pens on mylar, a common drafting medium in the late twentieth century. \n\nAlthough some people claim that pounce was never added afterwards to dry ink, this probably represents confusion between the two processes of preparing paper and drying the ink after writing. Experiment shows that using pounce does indeed smooth \"unsized\" paper but then does little or nothing to dry the ink, and it is clearly the case that pouncing or sanding continued long after properly \"sized\" writing paper came into general use during the nineteenth century. \n\nThe pounce or sand is gently sprinkled all over the writing on the paper. When using a quill or a steel nib, and with inks that are made up to match those typically in use during the 18th or 19th centuries, and provided the pen has been used with the fine strokes typical of handwriting of that period, the handwriting will be sufficiently dry within 10 seconds to allow the paper to be folded without blotting. Gently vibrating the paper whilst the pounce or sand is on it ensures that little or no pounce or sand sticks to the handwriting and excess sand or pounce is shaken off before folding the paper. \n\nIn the 19th century the pounce pots or sanders often had a shallow dish round the top so that pounce or sand could be returned to the pot and reused. The process is very effective for quickly drying ink, and although blotting paper has been available since Tudor times, pounce or sand continued to be used throughout the nineteenth century because it was often cheaper.\n"}
{"id": "2007261", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007261", "title": "Live Bootleg (Audio Adrenaline album)", "text": "Live Bootleg (Audio Adrenaline album)\n\nLive Bootleg is Audio Adrenaline's first live album. It was recorded during various presentations of the band in the fall of 1994, and released in 1995.\n\n\"Live Bootleg\" received mixed reviews from critics. Most of them recommended it only to established fans of the band. David Denis, of Jesus Freak Hideout, gave the album 2.5 stars out of 5, writing that the album \"does not hold up against their studio work. Most of the time, it feels underproduced, which in a way, constitutes the 'bootleg' feel of the album.\" John DiBiase, on the other hand, writes that the album \"captures their live energy pretty well with its raw production and intimate presentation\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2007274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007274", "title": "Universe of Energy", "text": "Universe of Energy\n\nThe Universe of Energy was a pavilion located on the eastern side of Future World at Epcot, a theme park at the Walt Disney World Resort in Bay Lake, Florida. The pavilion contained one attraction, Ellen's Energy Adventure, starring Ellen DeGeneres and Bill Nye, which was the second version of the show since the pavilion's 1982 opening. The attraction featured a combination of four separate large-format film presentations and a slow-moving dark ride through audio-animatronic filled sets.\n\nThe Universe of Energy pavilion was previously sponsored by ExxonMobil (formerly Exxon) from opening day on October 1, 1982, through 2004. The attraction closed permanently on August 13, 2017, being replaced with that will reuse the Universe of Energy's show building.\n\nThe original \"Universe of Energy\" pavilion itself was an innovation in energy technology, as the entire roof was covered in 80,000 photovoltaic solar cells that partially powered the ride vehicles. Visitors were transported through the pavilion in large battery-powered \"traveling theatre cars\" that followed guide-wires embedded in the floor as opposed to riding along conventional ride tracks. The original attraction featured numerous films that presented information on the subject of energy in a serious fashion as well as a ride through a primeval diorama complete with audio-animatronic dinosaurs.\n\nThe original pre-show featured an eight-minute live-action film presentation about the various forms of energy found in nature and traced the history of how mankind harnessed these different forms of energy for his use. This unique film presentation was known as the \"Kinetic Mosaic\" and was invented by Czech film director Emil Radok. The mosaic screen consisted of 100 rotating prism-shaped flip screens (reminiscent of those on the classic game show \"Concentration\"), arranged in a twenty five wide by four high array. These flip screens rotated under computer control and were synchronized to the motion picture that was projected onto their surface via five synchronized motion picture projectors. Each flip screen contained three sides, with white projection surfaces on two sides and a matte black surface on the third. The combination of the film and the screens' rotation created undulating, sometimes three-dimensional-appearing images. During the conclusion of the pre-show, the song \"Energy (You Make The World Go ‘Round)\" was played.\n\nUpon entering the theatre, guests were seated in one of six sections. The seating area rotated 180 degrees to face three large movie screens for the first film: a four-minute hand-animated film that depicted the beginnings of life on earth and the formation of fossil fuels.\n\nAt the conclusion of the film, the seating area rotated 90 degrees to face a curtain, which then raised to reveal a primeval diorama. The entire seating area moved into the diorama where it then broke apart into six multi-passenger vehicles that took guests on a seven-minute journey through the diorama, which was populated by numerous animatronic dinosaurs including an \"Edaphosaurus\" and two \"Arthropleura\" fighting and a family of \"Brontosaurus\" in a swamp (complete with realistic \"swampy\" smell), a \"Stegosaurus\" fighting an \"Allosaurus\" on an overhead cliff, several \"Trachodon\" bathing beneath a waterfall, a number of \"Ornithomimus\" watching helplessly as one of their own sank into a boiling tar pit, an \"Elasmosaurus\" that lashed out of a tidal pool at guests, and numerous \"Pteranodon\" that were perched around an erupting volcano (complete with flowing lava and realistic \"volcano\" smell).\n\nLeaving the diorama, the vehicles entered the \"EPCOT Energy Information Center\" where they reassembled back into their original theatre seating formation. Here, guests viewed a twelve-minute live-action film on three giant wrap around screens that took them on an in-depth look at various current and future energy resources around the world.\n\nAt the conclusion of the film, the screens raised and the entire seating area traveled beneath them into Theatre I and rotated back into its starting position facing the audience towards a large cylindrical-shaped screen. There, guests viewed a two-minute computer-animated film that was reflected off of mirrored walls within the theatre. The film depicted an ever-evolving landscape of colorful, laser-like imagery of the various ways mankind has benefited from harnessing energy for his use and was accompanied by an upbeat song entitled \"Universe of Energy\".\n\nThe Summer of 1996 saw many changes come to Future World East. World of Motion closed in January in preparation for its conversion into Test Track, and Horizons was not operating consistently due to alleged structural issues with the pavilion. The updated films for the attraction were behind schedule, meaning that Future World East would only have the Wonders of Life pavilion open for the peak summer season. The decision was made to reopen Universe of Energy after renovations had been made to the pavilion in preparation for the new show.\n\nThis temporary version of the show featured the original 1982 films, but lacked some of the effects. Most notably, the Kinetic Mosaic screen from the original pre-show had been removed resulting in the film being projected onto static screens, losing the shape-shifting effect of the film. Also removed were the maps and television monitors on the wall in the \"Epcot Energy Information Center\" in Theatre II, having already been replaced by the KNRG radio tower backdrop for the new show. For this scene, a new narration played that covered much of the same information as the original narration minus any mention of the maps and monitors. In Theatre I, the mirrors on the walls had already been removed by this point, resulting in a much less dramatic version of the finale film.\n\nDuring this period, some elements for the new show had already been installed in preparation for the new show and had to be hidden. This included the Audio-Animatronic figure of Ellen DeGeneres in the diorama. To solve this, temporary rockwork was placed in front of the figure hiding it from view. However, the \"elasmosaurus\" figure had already been reprogrammed for the new show, leading to the awkward result of having it lunge at rocks instead of the ride vehicles as it had originally done.\n\nThis version of the show only ran from June 14 to September 2, 1996. The pavilion was closed again soon after peak season to allow for the installation of the new films for the new version of the attraction.\n\n\"Ellen's Energy Adventure\" starred Ellen DeGeneres, Bill Nye \"The Science Guy\", Jamie Lee Curtis, Alex Trebek, and Johnny Gilbert. It took a light-hearted look at various energy resources, how energy was produced, the history of energy production, and the search for new energy resources. In particular it focused on the origins of fossil fuels such as petroleum, coal and natural gas. It also mentioned renewable sources such as solar and hydroelectric power. In 2011, \"Ellen's Energy Adventure\" surpassed the original \"Universe of Energy\" show as the longest running version of the attraction.\n\nThe second version of the show reused the traveling theater system of the original \"Universe of Energy\" show. The primeval diorama used essentially the same sets and Audio-Animatronic dinosaurs as the original show, although during the renovation to the \"Ellen's Energy Adventure\" show, all of the dinosaurs were repainted in much brighter colors, and several audio-animatronic figures were added along with an upbeat musical score to help tie it into the new film footage.\n\nGuests viewed an eight-minute film in which Ellen DeGeneres falls asleep and dreams that she is in an energy-themed version of \"Jeopardy!\", playing against an old college rival Judy Peterson (Curtis) and Albert Einstein (Benny Wasserman). Not knowing anything about energy, Ellen fell way behind Judy. At the end of the first round, Bill Nye the Science Guy stepped in and offered to help teach Ellen about energy during the commercial break.\n\nUpon entering the theatre, guests were seated in one of six sections. The seating area rotated 180 degrees to face three large movie screens for the first film: a four-minute computer animated film in which Bill took Ellen back billions of years in time to witness the Big Bang and the formation of the earth. Finally, they ended up in a prehistoric jungle where he briefly explained how fossil fuels were formed.\n\nAt the conclusion of the film, the seating area rotated 90 degrees to face a curtain, which then rose to reveal the primeval diorama. The entire seating area moved into the diorama where it then broke apart into six multi-passenger vehicles that took guests on a seven-minute journey through the diorama, which was populated by numerous audio-animatronic dinosaurs including an \"Edaphosaurus\", two \"Arthropleura\" fighting and a family of \"Brontosaurus\" in a swamp (one of whom sneezed water onto guests), a \"Stegosaurus\" fighting an \"Allosaurus\" on an overhead cliff, several \"Trachodon\" bathing beneath a waterfall, a number of \"Ornithomimus\" drinking from a pond (one of whom spit water at guests), an Audio-Animatronic Ellen standing near a tidal pool fighting off an \"Elasmosaurus\" with a tree branch, and numerous \"Pteranodon\" perched around an erupting volcano. After November 2014, the Audio-Animatronic figure of Ellen fighting off the \"Elasmosaurus\" with a tree branch stopped working and was removed. It was replaced with a group of smaller \"Pteranodons\".\n\nLeaving the diorama, the vehicles entered a second theatre where they reassembled back into their original theatre seating formation. After listening to a brief prehistoric broadcast from KNRG News Radio (which featured the voices of Willard Scott and Chris Berman), guests viewed a twelve-minute live-action film on three giant wrap around screens in which Bill Nye took Ellen on an in-depth look at various current and future energy resources across the United States. Actor Michael Richards made a brief cameo as a caveman near the beginning of the film.\nAt the conclusion of the film, the screens rose and the entire seating area traveled beneath them back into Theatre I and rotated back into its original starting position facing the audience towards a large television-shaped screen. The final two minute film presented the end of Ellen's dream in which she used her new knowledge about energy in the Double Jeopardy! round to unseat Judy as \"Jeopardy!\" champion.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2007285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007285", "title": "Environment Hawaii", "text": "Environment Hawaii\n\n\"For the article concerning Hawaii's environment, see Environment of Hawaii\"\n\nEnvironment Hawaii is a monthly newsletter published in Hilo, Hawaii. It focuses on investigative reporting about Hawaii's environment. The newsletter made its debut in July 1990.\n\n"}
{"id": "2007286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007286", "title": "Ghaziabad", "text": "Ghaziabad\n\nGhaziabad () is a city in the Indian state of Uttar Pradesh and a part of the National Capital Region of Delhi. It is the administrative headquarters of Ghaziabad district and is the largest city in western Uttar Pradesh, with a population of 1,729,000. Ghaziabad Municipal Corporation is divided into 5 zones - City Zone, Kavi Nagar Zone, Vijay Nagar Zone, Mohan Nagar Zone and Vasundhara Zone The Municipal Corporation comprises 100 wards. Well connected by roads and railways, it is a major rail junction for North India. It is sometimes referred to as the \"Gateway of Uttar Pradesh\" because it is close to New Delhi, on the main route into Uttar Pradesh. Recent construction works have led to the city being described by a City Mayors Foundation survey as the second fastest-growing in the world. Situated in the Upper Gangetic Plains, the city has two major divisions separated by the Hindon River, namely Trans-Hindon on the west and Cis-Hindon on the east.\n\nThe city of Ghaziabad was founded in 1740 A.D. by Ghazi-ud-Din, who served as a wazir in the court of Mughal emperor Muhammad Shah, and named it as \"Ghaziuddinnagar\" after his own name. The name \"Ghaziuddinnagar\" was shortened to its present form, i.e. \"Ghaziabad\" with the opening of the Railways in 1864. During the Mughal period, Ghaziabad and especially the banks of the Hindon in Ghaziabad, remained a picnic spot for the Mughal royal family.\n\nEstablishment of the Scientific Society here, during the same period is considered as a milestone of the educational movement launched by Syed Ahmad Khan. The Sind, Punjab and Delhi Railway, connecting Delhi and Lahore, up till Ambala through Ghaziabad was opened in the same year. With the completion of the Amritsar-Saharanpur-Ghaziabad line of the Sind, Punjab and Delhi Railway in 1870, Delhi was connected to Multan through Ghaziabad, and Ghaziabad became the junction of the East Indian Railway and Sind, Punjab and Delhi Railway.\n\nGhaziabad, along with Meerut and Bulandshahr, remained one of the three Munsifis of the District, under the Meerut Civil Judgeship during most periods of the British Raj.\n\nGhaziabad was associated with the Indian independence movement from the Indian Rebellion of 1857. \n\nAlthough connected by railway since 1865, it was not until 1940 that the first modern industry appeared in Ghaziabad. However, it was in the post-independence period that industry really expanded, with a further 22 factories opening in the four years after 1947. This development can be attributed to the influx of people from the newly formed Pakistan and the relocation of businesses from what was now the Pakistani province of Punjab. John Oakey and Mohan Ltd., one of India's largest concerns manufacturing coated and bonded abrasives, and originally functioning under the name of 'National Abrasives' at Rawalpindi was shifted here under the proprietorship of 'Dyer Meakins' in 1947. Subsequently, the Mohan Meakin breweries were also set up in the year 1949. This period also saw the development of Ghaziabad as one of India's most famous centres of the Oil Engines industry.\n\nIn 1967, the municipal limits were extended up to the Delhi-UP border. Starting in the early 1970s, many steel-manufacturing units also came up in the city making it one of the primary industries of the city. This period also saw the emergence of the Electronics industry, with the setting up of Bharat Electronics Limited and Central Electronics Limited Over the years, planned Industrial development saw participation from major industrial houses of the country including Mohans (Mohan Nagar Industrial Estate, 1949), Tatas (Tata Oil Mills), Modis (Modinagar, 1933; International Tobacco Co. 1967), Shri Rams (Shri Ram Pistons, 1964), Jaipurias etc. and also significant participation through foreign capital in concerns such as Danfoss India Ltd. (estd. 1968); Indo- Bulgar Food Ltd. and International Tobacco Company (estd. 1967).\n\nThe provisional data derived from the 2011 census shows that Ghaziabad urban agglomeration had a population of 2,358,525, of which males were 1,256,783 and females were 1,101,742. The literacy rate was 93.81%. Ghaziabad is a subcategory B1 district of category B i.e. having socioeconomic parameters below the national average. It is the second largest industrial city in Uttar Pradesh after Kanpur.\n\nHinduism is the most popular religion in Ghaziabad with 72.93% followers, followed by 25.35% Muslim followers, 0.41 Christian followers, and 0.49% Sikh followers who make up the smallest percentage of followers in the city. There are around 0.07 Buddhists, 0.35% Jain followers who are minorities. There are many religious sites in Ghaziabad such as the ISKCON Temple for Hindus, Jama Masjid for Muslims, Holy Trinity Church for Christians, and Shri Guru Singh Sabha Gurudwara for Sikhs.\n\nAs it is connected to the national capital, its temperature and rainfall are similar to Delhi. Rajasthan's dust storms and snowfall in the Himalayas, Kumaon and Garhwal hills name their impact in the weather regularly. The monsoon arrives in the district at the end of June or the first week of July and normally it rains until October.\nAs in other districts of northern India mainly three seasons - summer, winter and rainy - prevail here, but sometimes due to severe snowfall in the Himalayas and Kumaon Hills, adverse weather can also be seen.\nDue to a number of Construction and Highway Projects causing cutting Down Hundreds of old Trees rapidly, The Pollution and rising Temperature problems have increased significantly.\nA proposal has been made to widen National Highway 24 (NH-24) from four to fourteen lanes on the stretch between the Ghaziabad-Delhi border and Dasna. Many residential and commercial projects are being built along the highway.\n\nThe Delhi Metro extends to New Bus Adda station which is situated at the Old Ghaziabad GT Road. This line has since been extended to New Bus Stand, Ghaziabad. Hindon River Station which serves Raj Nagar Extension and Mohan Nagar Station. Another station exists at Vaishali, which serves that area as well as Vasundhara and Indirapuram, and there is also a station at Kaushambi.\n\nHindon Domestic Airport is the airport serving Ghaziabad which will begin operation in October 2019. The closest international airport is the Indira Gandhi International Airport.\n\nThe Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium is a multi-purpose stadium in Ghaziabad.\n\nInternational Cricket Stadium is under construction at Raj Nagar Extension and will complete by 2021.\n\n \n\n \n\n \n\n \n\n \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2007289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007289", "title": "Birmingham Post-Herald", "text": "Birmingham Post-Herald\n\nThe Birmingham Post-Herald was a daily newspaper in Birmingham, Alabama, with roots dating back to 1850, before the founding of Birmingham. The final edition was published on September 23, 2005. In its last full year, its average daily circulation was 7,544, down from 8,948 the previous year.\n\nIn 1850 John Cantley, a merchant from Tuscaloosa, established the \"Elyton Herald\", Jefferson County's first newspaper. The early years of the newspaper were marked by frequent changes of name and ownership. In the 1860s, Cantley sold the weekly paper to Henry A. Hale. In 1871, the year that the new industrial center of Birmingham was incorporated, Hale sold the business to R. H. Henley, who was also Birmingham's first mayor. Henley renamed the paper the \"Birmingham Sun\" and published it himself for the first six months, before selling it to Thomas McLaughlin and James Matthews, who again changed the name to \"The Jefferson Independent\". The Independent lasted for two years before it was bought by Willis Roberts and Frank M. Grace, who again changed the name, this time to \"The Weekly Iron Age\".\n\nIn 1881, the paper again changed hands. The new owners, W. C. Garrett and R. H. Thornton, again changed the name to \"The Daily Birmingham Age\" and began daily publication for the first time. With the addition of national and world news items from the Associated Press the \"Age\" reached a peak of success, ranking second only to \" The Atlanta Constitution\" in the Southern market in advertising dollars. \n\nIn 1887 Rufus N. Rhodes founded a rival newspaper, \"The Daily Herald\" appeared on the streets of Birmingham. After a year as competitors, the two papers merged on November 8, 1888, to form \"The Birmingham Age-Herald\". This combined paper was sold in 1896 to an upstart rival, \"The Daily State\". For two years it was published under the \"Daily State Herald\" masthead before controlling interest was sold to E. W. Barrett and the \"Age-Herald\" name restored.\n\nDuring this time, E. W. Barrett died and his widow sold the \"Age-Herald\" to Frederick I. Thompson, Donald Comer and B. B. Comer. In 1927 the paper was sold to another rival, Victor H. Hanson, publisher of \"The Birmingham News\". Hanson published both papers simultaneously, the \"Age-Herald\" in the morning and \"The Birmingham News\" in the evenings. On Sundays, a joint \"Birmingham News Age-Herald\" edition was distributed.\n\nAnother merger occurred in 1950 when the \"Age-Herald\" joined with the Scripps-Howard-owned \"Birmingham Post\", which had grown to a large circulation since its founding in 1921 by Ed Leech. By the terms of the merger, the \"News\" and \"Post-Herald\" became independent papers published under a joint operating agreement. Circulation, advertising and printing were provided by The Birmingham News Company. The \"Post-Herald\" published on weekday mornings while the \"News\" became the sole evening and Sunday paper.\n\nThe \"Post-Herald\" figured in several episodes of the Civil Rights Movement. \"Post-Herald\" photographer Tommy Langston's 1961 image of Ku Klux Klan members attacking Freedom Riders attracted national attention because it showed FBI informant Gary Thomas Rowe in the violent mob. Langston himself was badly beaten after making the picture. In 1962, \"Post-Herald\" editor Jimmy Mills was arrested for publishing an election-day editorial suggesting how citizens should vote. Mills fought his conviction all the way to the U.S. Supreme Court, which held in \"Mills v. Alabama\" that the state could not prohibit campaigning on election day.\n\nIn 1996, the News Company instigated a switch between the morning and evening publications, again creating a joint weekend edition (distributed on Saturdays). This move reinforced \"The News\"' pre-eminent role in a time when morning papers are the norm. Toward the end of its existence, the \"Post-Herald\" adopted a niche of emphasizing more detailed local stories and featuring well-known local columnists, including Paul Finebaum.\n\nThe long-expected closure was announced to staffers and then to the public by E. W. Scripps executives on the morning of September 22, 2005, the day before the final edition. The announcement said that the Birmingham market could simply no longer support two newspapers, thus continuing a trend of big-city afternoon newspapers either folding or merging with morning newspapers. Writer Clarke Stallworth held the distinction of writing the lead story for the front page of both the first and last editions of the \"Post-Herald.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2007305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007305", "title": "Outer trench swell", "text": "Outer trench swell\n\nThe outer trench swell, outer trench high, or outer rise is a subtle ridge on the seafloor near an oceanic trench, where a descending plate begins to flex and fault in preparation for its descent into the mantle at a subduction zone. The lithosphere is bent upwards by plate stresses, and is not in isostatic equilibrium (distinguish from the \"outer ridge\" of a forearc).\n\nTypically, the gravity field over the outer swell is about 50 mGal (0.5 mm/s²) higher than expected from isostasy, while gravity over the trench is about 200 mGal (2 mm/s²) less than that expected from isostatic considerations.\n\nThe bending of the plate is associated with tension in the upper 20 km, and shallow earthquakes, caused by tensional failure induced by the downward bending of the oceanic plate are common; about 20 extensional outer rise earthquakes with magnitude 5 or greater occur annually. Most tension axes are perpendicular to the trench, independent of the direction of relative motion between the two plates, indicating that failure is controlled by bending stresses in the plate. Plate bending also causes deeper (down to 50 km) earthquakes due to compression.\n\nThe wavelength and amplitude of this flexure can be used to constrain the state of stress across the plate boundary. The width of the outer rise is directly related to the flexural rigidity of the lithosphere. The thickness of the elastic lithosphere varies between 20 and 30 km for most trench profiles. Faulting related to plate bending and stair-stepping of the descending slab into the trench may allow seawater to infiltrate deep into the crust and perhaps upper mantle. This may lead to large scale formation of serpentinite in the upper mantle of the downgoing plate (Ranero et al., 2003).\n\nFaulting of the downgoing plate results in a horst and graben structure that allows sediment that reaches the trench to be deposited in graben and carried downward. This faulting also breaks up seamounts as they approach the trench. The principal mechanism of frontal erosion may reflect combined effects of seamount tunneling, mass wasting and transport to the trench, deposition in a graben on the downgoing plate, and descent into the mantle.\n\nOuter trench swells are geoscientific frontiers and much remains to be learned about them. Recent volcanoes have been discovered on ~135-million-year-old Pacific Plate east of Japan (Hirano et al., 2006). These small alkalic volcanoes are small percent melts of asthenosphere that exploit bending-related lithospheric faults to reach the seafloor. Hirano et al., (2006) proposed that these small volcanoes erupted along lithospheric fractures in response to plate flexure during subduction. If bending-related faulting and serpentinization is an important process beneath outer trench swells, there are probably also abundant low-temperature hydrothermal vents on the swells, similar to those of the Lost City (hydrothermal field).\n\n"}
{"id": "2007306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007306", "title": "EMD GP50", "text": "EMD GP50\n\nAn EMD GP50 is a 4-axle road switcher diesel-electric locomotive built by General Motors Electro-Motive Division (EMD). It is powered by a 16-cylinder EMD 645F3B diesel engine, which can produce between . 278 examples of this locomotive were built by EMD between 1980 and 1985. BN 3110-3162 were all delivered with five cab seats, the final five of these having the cab lengthened vs. the standard EMD cab. The GP50 retains the same overall length of as the EMD GP38, EMD GP38-2, EMD GP39, EMD GP39-2, EMD GP40 and EMD GP40-2.\n\nIn 2015–2016 the Norfolk Southern Railway rebuilt 28 GP50s into the low-emission GP33ECO. And in early 2016, Norfolk Southern rebuilt one GP50 into their first GP59ECO. These units, most of which utilized GP59 cores, have similar specifications as the earlier GP33ECO program but have been built without public funding contributing to their construction.\n\n"}
{"id": "2007310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007310", "title": "Panzer VII Löwe", "text": "Panzer VII Löwe\n\nThe Panzerkampfwagen VII Löwe (Lion) was a design for a super-heavy tank created by Krupp for the German government during World War II. The project, initially code-named VK 70.01 (K), never left the drawing board, and was dropped in 5–6 March 1942, in favor of Porsche's heavier Panzer VIII Maus.\n\nThe Löwe was designed in two variants, unofficially designated \"Leichter Löwe\" (light lion) and \"Schwerer Löwe\" (heavy lion), both with a crew of five:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2007331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007331", "title": "The Best of Me (Bryan Adams album)", "text": "The Best of Me (Bryan Adams album)\n\nThe Best of Me is the third greatest hits album by Canadian singer Bryan Adams. It was released worldwide in 1999, and in the U.S. in 2001. It was his last release on A&M Records. Upon its initial release, a special edition 2-disc set was issued with live tracks. Another special edition 2-CD set was issued when the album was released in the U.S., dubbed 'Special Tour Edition', bearing three extra tracks. It is Adams' second compilation album, after \"So Far So Good\"; except for Japan, where \"Hits on Fire\" was released in 1988. This album sees Adams reuniting with Robert John \"Mutt\" Lange – on the title track – after being absent from 1998's \"On a Day Like Today\".\n\n1999 Special Edition bonus disc\n\nTracks 2, 5 are also available on the single \"Inside Out\", issued in 2000.\n\n\nThis is basically the same bonus disc as the 1999 special edition release, with three extra tracks added.\nTracks 2, 5 are also available on the single \"Inside Out\", issued in 2000.\nTracks 6, 7, 8 are from the DVD release \"Live At Slane Castle\".\nThe collection sells well over 3 million copies\n\nUnidentified alternative edition\n\nThere exists an edition of this CD, dated 1999 and carrying a sticker bearing the catalogue number 490 522-2 [11], which omits the final track listed above, \"18 Til I Die\", and instead adds a hidden track after track 15:\n\n16. \"Don't Give Up\" – 3:42, by Chicane Featuring Bryan Adams, written by Nick Bracegirdle, Bryan Adams, and Ray Hedges.\n\nNo bonus disc is included with this edition.\n\n"}
{"id": "2007332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007332", "title": "Fritz Moravec", "text": "Fritz Moravec\n\nFritz Moravec (April 27, 1922 – March 17, 1997) was an Austrian mountaineer and author. He is best known for his numerous expeditions in the Karakoram range, where he participated in the first ascent of Gasherbrum II (8,034 m, 26,358 ft). Moravec was the founder of the Glockner-Kaprun mountaineering school. \n\nFritz Moravec was born on April 27, 1922 in the Favoriten tenth district of Vienna, Austria. After an apprenticeship as a motor mechanic, he studied mechanical engineering at the Technical University of Vienna. He developed a love of mountaineering from his father, a locomotive engineer, who served as a military mountain guide in the Dolomites during World War I. I 1942, Moravec served in one of the mountain units in the Caucasus during World War II. \n\nAfter returning to Austria after the war in 1946, Moravec continued to study psychology and education and became a teacher in a specialized school for locksmithing. He spent his spare time with youth groups in the mountains, as in the Gesäuse, and led climbing courses. Moravec specialized in ice climbing. After 1950, he began climbing in the Western Alps, and by 1954 he climbed for the first time in the Himalayas to Saipal.\n\nOn July 7, 1956, he ascended Gasherbrum II with Josef Larch and Hans Willenpart. In the coming years, he participated in numerous other expeditions to the Spitsbergen, Dhaulagiri, and to Africa. For some time, Moravec's ascent of Gasherbrum II was questioned because he was not visible in summit photos. On September 25, 1995, in a lecture on Himalayan mountaineering held at Vienna's City Hall, Moravec stated:\nIn 1959, Moravec led an Austrian expedition to Dhaulagiri. As the team approached the summit on May 27, 1959, they were forced to turn back due to poor weather conditions—a mere 300 m from their goal. Although the summit attempt failed, Moravec's team prepared the way and identified the route on the northeast ridge that would be used by the Swiss expedition the following year.\n\nIn 1962, Moravec was approached to participate in a Dutch Himalayan expedition. At the same time, he was approached by naturalists who wanted him to build a climbing school. Moravec chose the latter project, and soon founded the Glockner-Kaprun mountaineering school and remained its leader for thirty years. He created training programs for ten to thirteen-year-olds which are still recognized worldwide. \n\nMoravec died on March 17, 1997 in Vienna. He was buried in Hietzinger cemetery. Following his death, his mountaineering school was renamed the Fritz Moravec High Mountain School in his honour.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2007335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007335", "title": "Wally Boag", "text": "Wally Boag\n\nWallace Vincent \"Wally\" Boag (September 13, 1920 – June 3, 2011) was an American performer known for his starring role in Disney's long-running stage show the \"Golden Horseshoe Revue\".\n\nBoag was born in Portland, Oregon, in 1920 to Evelyn G. and Wallace B. Boag. He joined a professional dance team at age nine, later established his own dance school, and by the age of 19 had turned to comedy. He toured the world's stages in hotels, theaters and nightclubs. While appearing at the London Hippodrome in \"Starlight Roof\", he brought a young 12-year-old girl on stage to help with his balloon act. The girl, a young Julie Andrews, astonished the audience with her voice and was kept in the show. In 1945, Boag signed a contract with Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer and appeared in films such as \"Without Love\" and \"Thrill of a Romance\", in credited roles.\n\nIn the early 1950s, while appearing in revues in Australia, he met tenor Donald Novis. It was Novis who got Walt Disney to audition Boag for the \"Golden Horseshoe Revue\", a 45-minute stage show which was written by its first pianist Charles LaVere and lyricist Tom Adair. Novis was the show's first tenor and was replaced by Fulton Burley when he retired in 1962. Both Boag and The \"Golden Horseshoe Revue\" were cited in \"The Guinness Book of World Records\" for having the greatest number of performances of any theatrical presentation. The show was often incorrectly introduced before a performance as the record holder of the longest running revue in the history of show business. The 10,000th performance of the Golden Horseshoe Revue was featured on NBC's \"The Wonderful World of Disney\".\n\nBoag's Pecos Bill/Traveling Salesman character was a fast-paced comedy routine featuring slapstick humor, squirt guns, a seemingly endless supply of broken teeth which he would spit out throughout the routine, and his signature balloon animals which he called Boagaloons.\n\nIn 1963, Julie Andrews once again performed with Boag on the Golden Horseshoe stage along with the Dapper Dans, at a special press-only event to promote the following year's release of \"Mary Poppins\". Together, Andrews and Boag recreated their act of long ago and sang \"By the Light of the Silvery Moon.\"\n\nWhile Walt Disney was alive, he did everything he could to further Boag's career. Boag voiced Jose in \"Walt Disney's Enchanted Tiki Room\" and also wrote much of the script for the attraction, participating also in the development of \"Haunted Mansion\" in Disneyland.\n\nDisney had small roles written for Boag in \"The Absent-Minded Professor\" and \"Son of Flubber\". It was Disney's intention to use Boag as the voice of Tigger in \"Winnie the Pooh\". While at a story meeting for \"Winnie the Pooh and the Blustery Day,\" Disney felt that Wally Boag was perfect for the role of Tigger. However, while watching out for him, Disney died from lung cancer in December 1966. Boag auditioned for Tigger when it was aired until the role ultimately went to Paul Winchell after it aired. Except for a cameo appearance in \"The Love Bug\", Boag did not appear in any more Disney films.\n\nIn 1971, Boag took his Pecos Bill character to the newly opened Walt Disney World and re-crafted the saloon show into a faster, funnier \"Diamond Horseshoe Revue\". Three years later he returned to Disneyland and finished his career there, entertaining adoring crowds at the Golden Horseshoe, retiring in 1982. (He had in the meantime performed his act as the human guest on the fifth season of \"The Muppet Show\".) The \"Golden Horseshoe Revue\" closed in 1986. In 1995, Boag was inducted into the ranks of the Disney Legends and has his own window on Main Street in Disneyland above the Carnation Company. The inscription reads \"Theatrical Agency - Golden Vaudeville Routines - Wally Boag, Prop.\"\n\nBoag lived in California with his wife, Ellen Morgan Boag. \nHe died on June 3, 2011 in Santa Monica, California from Alzheimer's disease.\n\nHis autobiography, entitled \"Wally Boag, Clown Prince of Disneyland,\" was published in August 2009 and is available for purchase at wallyboag.net. \n\nBoag's performances have influenced many later performers and comedians, most notable of whom is Steve Martin, who studied Boag's humor and timing while working at Disneyland as a teenager. Boag's performance appears on Week One of the \"Mickey Mouse Club\" DVD collection, and the soundtrack of the \"Golden Horseshoe Revue\" has been released on CD.\n\nOn June 3, 2011, it was announced by Steve Martin on Twitter \"My hero, the first comedian I ever saw live, my influence, a man to whom I aspired, has passed on. Wally Boag.\" The following day, June 4, 2011, Boag's longtime partner at the Golden Horseshoe Revue, Betty Taylor, also died. Ellen died in July 2014.\n\n"}
{"id": "2007340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007340", "title": "The Further Adventures of The Joker", "text": "The Further Adventures of The Joker\n\nThe Further Adventures of The Joker (1990; Bantam Books, 457 pages) is an English paperback anthology of short fiction stories about Batman's archenemy the Joker. The material was written by various authors (see below), and the book was edited by Martin H. Greenberg. It was the follow-up to an earlier Batman anthology, \"The Further Adventures of Batman\", and was followed by two later installments: \"The Further Adventures of Batman vol. 2 Featuring the Penguin\" and \"The Further Adventures of Batman vol. 3 Featuring Catwoman\".\n\nThe stories in \"The Further Adventures of The Joker\" cover a wide range of topics and styles, with the title character, and his complicated relationship with the Batman, as the unifying theme; from tales of the Joker's childhood, to his current crimes, some of which Batman attempts to foil.\n\nAll of the works included in this anthology are considered to be \"non-canonical\", in relation to mainstream DC Comics continuity. Joe R. Lansdale's story \"Belly Laugh, or The Joker's Trick or Treat\" is notably a sequel to Lansdale's story from \"The Further Adventures of Batman\". \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2007345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007345", "title": "Tiamat (Dungeons &amp; Dragons)", "text": "Tiamat (Dungeons &amp; Dragons)\n\nTiamat is a supremely strong and powerful 5-headed draconic goddess in the \"Dungeons & Dragons\" role-playing game. The name is taken from Tiamat, a goddess in ancient Mesopotamian mythology. She is the queen and mother of evil dragons and a member of the default pantheon of \"Dungeons & Dragons\" gods. Her symbol is a five-headed dragon. Tiamat was also named as one of the greatest villains in \"Dungeons & Dragons\" history in \"Dragon\" #359, the magazine's final print issue. David M. Ewalt of \"Forbes\" calls Tiamat \"the most fearsome dragon in \"D&D\"s history\".\n\nThe character was introduced to the game in its first supplement, \"Greyhawk\" (1975), by Gary Gygax and Rob Kuntz. In this book, she was only known as \"the Dragon Queen\" and \"the Chromatic Dragon\". She was described as she is now, but she did not yet have a personal name.\n\nThe character appears in the first edition \"Monster Manual\" (1977). In this book, the Chromatic Dragon was given the personal name, \"Tiamat\" and is stated to rule \"the first plane of the Nine Hells where she spawns all of evil dragonkind\". Tiamat, the Chromatic Dragon, Queen of Evil Dragonkind, is further described in \"Dragon\" #38 (1980). In the first edition of \"Deities & Demigods\" (1980) she is mentioned under the entry for the Babylonian god Marduk (\"His battles with Tiamat are legendary.\"), formally connecting her with the Babylonian Tiamat. Tiamat's role as ruler of Avernus, the first layer of the Nine Hells, is detailed in Ed Greenwood's article, \"The Nine Hells Part I\", in \"Dragon\" #75 (1983). Tiamat's role in the outer planes is detailed in the first edition \"Manual of the Planes\" (1987).\n\nIn module H4 \"The Throne of Bloodstone\" (1988), Bahamut tells the player characters that the \"Wand of Orcus\" can only be destroyed if it is \"steeped in the black and foul blood from the heart of Tiamat, the Queen of Darkness\", although if killed Tiamat and the \"wand\" will be removed from the current plane of existence for centuries, but will eventually return to existence.\n\nTiamat was detailed as a deity in the book \"Monster Mythology\" (1992), including details about her priesthood. Tiamat was later detailed as a deity for the Forgotten Realms campaign setting in the original \"Draconomicon\" (1990). Tiamat is also described in \"Cult of the Dragon\" (1998). Her role in the cosmology of the Planescape campaign setting was described in \"On Hallowed Ground\" (1996). Several draconic children of Tiamat are described in the article \"Spawn of Tiamat, Children of Bahamut,\" in \"Dragon\" #260 (June 1999).\n\nTiamat appears in a preview article for the third edition, in \"Dragon\" #272 (June 2000). This information is later included in the \"Manual of the Planes\" (2001), She is also referenced in \"Faiths and Pantheons\" (2002) from the Forgotten Realms campaign setting. Tiamat is further detailed as a deity in \"Defenders of the Faith\" (2000) and \"Deities and Demigods\" (2002).\n\nTiamat's priesthood and her role as a draconic deity are further detailed for this edition in \"Draconomicon: The Book of Dragons\" (2003), \"Complete Divine\" (2004), and \"Races of the Dragon\" (2006) Tiamat's role in the Nine Hells is revisited in \".\" (2006). The spawn of Tiamat were described in \"Monster Manual IV\" (2006) and \"Monster Manual V\" (2007).\n\nTiamat appears as one of the deities described in the \"Dungeon Master's Guide\" for this edition (2008). She is further detailed and has a stat block in \"\" (2008).\n\nTiamat again appears as one of the deities described in the \"Dungeon Master's Guide\" for this edition (2014). She is the main villain in the first adventure story-line season for the edition. The Cult of the Dragon attempts to bring her from the Nine Hells to Faerûn. Her potential arrival is the conclusion to the adventures \"Hoard of the Dragon Queen\" and \"Rise of Tiamat\".\n\nTiamat has been known to manifest as a dark-haired human sorceress. In most \"Dungeons & Dragons\" campaign settings, however, Tiamat is the five-headed queen of the evil chromatic dragons. She has one head for each customary color of chromatic dragon (black, blue, green, red, white), and each head has the powers of a member of the respective race of dragonkind. Her body is a blending of various chromatic dragon forms with an appropriately multicolored hide. Her body also has traits in common with a wyvern, including a long tail tipped with a poisonous stinger.\n\nTiamat was also one of the first deities to have aspects, or lesser avatars. These aspects may appear as powerful versions of her chromatic children or as versions of her own five-headed form. One such multiheaded aspect was released in the \"Dungeons & Dragons Miniatures\" expansion set \"War of the Dragon Queen\", with detailed role-playing game statistics in \"Dragon Magic\". A smaller aspect of Tiamat first appeared in the \"Miniatures Handbook\".\n\nLike most other draconic deities, Tiamat is the offspring of the dragon creator deity Io. She is the eternal rival of her brother Bahamut, the ruler of the good metallic dragons. It is hinted that her overt hatred toward Bahamut has developed, over a vast period of time, into a twisted lust for her brother as well. She dwells in Avernus, the first layer of the Outer Plane of Baator (also known as the Nine Hells). The first edition of \"Advanced Dungeons & Dragons\" named her as the ruler of Avernus; later editions reserved the rulership of the layers of Baator for powerful baatezu (devils).\n\nIn many campaign settings, the draconic pantheon of gods consists of Io, Aasterinian, Bahamut, Chronepsis, Faluzure, Sardior, and Tiamat.\n\nThree Baatezu nobles (granted to her by Bel) serve Tiamat and command her armies on Avernus. Malphas leads 40 companies of abishai, Amduscias leads 29 companies of abishai, and Goap leads three companies of erinyes.\nWith Pearza of the Dark Eight, Tiamat created the first abishai.\n\nTiamat presently has five consorts, who are great wyrms of each chromatic dragon species. Previous consorts include Apsu, Kingsu, Ephelomon, the red dragon Etiol, and the now-undead dragon Dragotha. Three of Tiamat's children were detailed in \"Dragon\" #260. An-Ur, the Wandering Death, wanders the Ethereal Plane, devouring whole demiplanes. It supposedly sprang into being from Tiamat's \"first breath\", which may have been the name of one of her consorts, though An-Ur resembles no draconic species, except perhaps the ethereal moonstone dragons. Dhakoth the Corruptor was born on the Negative Energy Plane; its father is unknown. Mordukhavar the Reaver is the offspring of Tiamat and Cantrum of the Dark Eight. Kurtulmak is also her son, at least according to some myths.\n\nPeriodically Tiamat has battles with the Babylonian god Marduk, who dwells in Arcadia. She also battles Bahamut, her Lawful Good counterpart. Heironeous and Moradin also consider themselves her enemies. Tiamat claims not to need allies, although she has many pacts with Bel and with lawful evil deities such as Hextor.\n\nIn 4th Edition, Tiamat is at war with Zehir ever since she first invaded his realm of Tytherion. While the two gods are not openly fighting right now, they are far from allies; the current situation can mainly be regarded as a temporary cease-fire.\n\nTiamat's realm, known as the \"Dragonspawn Pits of Azharul\" or simply as Tiamat's lair, sprawls in a cluster of tall hills and mountains near a pillar made from the tormented heads of liars and a pit of maggots from which lemures emerge. One must fly or swim across the maggot pit to reach Tiamat's caves. Tiamat's lair contains the main gate to the second of the Nine Hells, Dis. To reach it, one must pass a chamber known as the Cave of Greed, which is filled with cursed treasure that compels the weak-willed to try to steal it. Tiamat has her own chamber within the complex, as do each of her five consorts, but it is possible to travel to Dis without disturbing her.\n\nIn the 4th edition cosmology, Tiamat shares the Astral Dominion of Tytherion, the Endless Night, with Zehir. Zehir was the original ruler, but Tiamat invaded intending to take the entire realm for herself. She successfully drove Zehir and his forces out of the caverns they loved, but she misjudged the strength and determination of the Midnight Serpent. The result is the bizarre allocation of Tytherion today: Tiamat rules the caves of Tytherion far beneath the skies and mountains she prefers, while Zehir rules the mountains above, far above the caverns and trenches his followers prefer. Although both would prefer to exchange their realms, they are too proud to actually do anything about it. \n\nIn the Forgotten Realms, Tiamat's realm is still located in the Nine Hells. She later grew in power to claim a realm of her own, but it was later destroyed. After a series of defeats and setbacks and seeing Bahamut rise in power, she pledged her allegiance to Bane and now resides in the Black Hand's realm of Banehold.\n\nTiamat is a greedy, vain, and arrogant goddess who embodies all the strengths of evil dragonkind, and few of their weaknesses. The Queen of Evil Dragons demands reverence, homage, supplication, and tribute from her subjects. She is sometimes called \"Her Dark Majesty\" or simply \"Dark Queen\". Tiamat is most concerned with spreading evil, defeating good, and propagating chromatic dragons. She never forgives a slight. Although she is not averse to razing the occasional village, her true schemes are subtle and hard to detect. She has been compared to a puppeteer manipulating her creations from within shadows.\n\nAlthough she claims dominance over all evil dragons (and despite her misleading title, \"Queen of Chaos\"), Tiamat's priests, who are known as Wyrmlairds or Wyrmkeepers, are either neutral evil or lawful evil. Tiamat's church has a rigid hierarchy, beginning with the lowly Custodians of the Copper Chalice and continuing with, in ascending rank, the Defenders of the Silver Shield, Wardens of the Electrum Mail, Guardians of the Gold Scepter, Keepers of the Platinum Crown, Scales of the White Wyrm, Horns of the Black Beast, Wings of the Green Gargantua, Talons of the Blue Baatoran, Breaths of the Red Ravager, and the Dark Scaly Ones leading them all. The ceremonial garb of a humanoid priest of Tiamat is a form-fitting suit of scales. Dragons or those whose scales naturally cover their bodies do not require this. Adventuring garb typically includes scale mail, and priests are preoccupied with gathering treasure and undermining other faiths.\n\nFew humans or other humanoids worship Tiamat, but her children, the chromatic dragons, all acknowledge her sovereignty. Blue and green dragons obey her most readily. The grotesque reptilian creatures known as the spawn of Tiamat worship her as their mother. Kobolds may also revere her as their progenitor. Prayers to the Dragon Queen focus on the promise of filling the world with evil dragons and either destroying it or dominating it utterly.\n\nTemples to Tiamat are often built within the lairs of long-dead dragons. They are filled with piles of wealth to be sacrificed to the Chromatic Dragon, as well as traps to keep out heretics and the unfaithful. Few dragons keep shrines to her in their own lairs, because they fear that she might notice their hoards and demand a portion thereof.\n\nThe two most important daily ceremonies are the Tithing and the Rite of Respect. The former is an offering of a small amount of treasure to the goddess; the tithe is cupped in the priest's hands or talons, and when a prayer is completed, the valuables have sometimes (10% of the time) simply vanished. The Rite of Respect is performed by non-dragons; it is a complicated ceremony of kow-towing in the presence of a dragon or other spawn of Tiamat. Evil dragons celebrate great victories by torturing prisoners and committing other atrocities in Tiamat's name.\n\nTiamat's enmity with Bahamut dates back to their creation, when Io made them; they were made with the intention of becoming complements and mates, but their personalities were too much at odds. Tiamat murdered Vorel, their elder sibling, and tried to frame Bahamut for the deed. Io realized who was truly to blame and banished Tiamat from his presence.\n\nIn one kobold creation myth, Kurtulmak owes his existence to an assault launched on Tiamat by an army of thieves shortly after she had laid a clutch of eggs. Badly injured and with her lair heavily damaged, she caused one of her eggs to hatch, thus creating Kurtulmak. The newly hatched godling quickly began creating a defensive perimeter of traps and restoring the caverns. During the process, Kurtulmak found an egg of Tiamat's that had fallen away from the nest and, deeming it had been away for too long to ever hatch naturally, used his magic to cause it to hatch, thus producing miniature versions of himself: the first kobolds.\n\nMany myths claim that Tiamat lived for a long time on the Prime Material Plane, seeding it with evil dragons and dark magic. Eventually she was banished to the Nine Hells by Bahamut and a sky/sun god (perhaps Pelor or Heironeous).\n\nIn the \"Dragonlance\" campaign setting, Tiamat's equivalent is Takhisis, the Dark Queen.\n\nIn the \"Forgotten Realms\" campaign setting, Tiamat is one of the few surviving gods of the Untheric pantheon (based on Sumerian and Babylonian mythology), battled Marduk in ages past, and is also a member of the draconic pantheon, daughter of Io, the slayer of Gilgeam the God-king of Unther, \"Nemesis of the Gods\". In the 4th edition version of the \"Forgotten Realms\", she is the sole survivor of the Untheric pantheon, and now spends most of her time as the goddess of chromatic dragons.\n\nIn the \"Eberron\" campaign setting, Tiamat is a bound demon lord from the Age of Demons, when dragons and couatl worked together to bind the children of Khyber beneath the earth. She now sits imprisoned in the Pit of Sorrows on the draconic continent of Argonnessen, birthing evil dragonspawn and corrupting the good dragons who watch over her prison.\n\nVarious monsters called Tiamat, patterned after the \"Dungeons & Dragons\" character, have appeared in other fantasy games, particularly role-playing video games. \n\n"}
{"id": "2007351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007351", "title": "Capital Group Companies", "text": "Capital Group Companies\n\nCapital Group is an American financial services company. It ranks among the world's oldest and largest investment management organizations, with over $2 trillion in assets under management. Founded in Los Angeles, California in 1931, it is privately held and has offices around the globe in the Americas, Asia, Australia and Europe.\n\nCapital offers a range of products focused on active management, including more than 40 mutual funds through its subsidiary, American Funds Distributors, as well as separately managed accounts (or collective investment trusts), private equity, investment services for high net worth investors in the U.S., and a range of other offerings for institutional clients and individual investors globally.\n\nIn 1931, Jonathan Bell Lovelace founded the investment firm, Lovelace, Dennis & Renfrew, which would eventually become Capital Group. Lovelace had previously been a partner in the stock brokerage firm E.E. MacCrone, where he explored the concept of developing an open-end mutual fund. He eventually sold his stake in that company, just prior to the Wall Street Crash of 1929.\n\nIn 1933, Lovelace's firm took over management of The Investment Company of America, which he had launched at E.E. MacCrone in 1927. For the next 20 years, his firm enjoyed modest success. As mutual funds gained in popularity in the 1950s, Capital's roster of mutual funds grew.\n\nThe International Resources Fund, established in 1954, was Capital's first foray into international investing. A year earlier, Lovelace had established an international investment staff at the urging of his son, Jon Lovelace, Jr. The establishment of the firm's first overseas research office in Geneva followed in 1962.\n\nIn 1958, Jon Lovelace, Jr. introduced a new system of managing the firm's mutual funds and accounts. Rather than assign a portfolio to a single manager, he divided each portfolio among several managers. Each manager would share ideas with peers but have total discretion over a section of the portfolio. Known today as The Capital System, it avoids the phenomenon of creating single-manager \"stars,\" who can impact a fund's results should they leave. In the mid-1960s, Capital began to include research analysts in the management of the portfolios, reserving a portion of each to allow analysts to pursue their highest conviction investment ideas.\n\nCapital Group's long-term approach has helped it avoid some of the pitfalls that have plagued other firms. In the late 1990s, the firm was criticized for not offering then-popular tech funds. But when the tech bubble burst, Capital was praised for not jumping on the bandwagon.\n\nFormer British PM Theresa May's husband Philip May has worked as a relationship manager for the Capital Group.\n\nAs of 2019, Capital Group held 5% of BAE Systems and 9% of British American Tobacco.\n\nThe chairman and chief executive is Tim Armour, who took over in 2015 after the death of James Rothenberg.\n\nFunds typically have between 3 and 13 managers; in addition to financial research, the managers may do on-the-ground due diligence, and in 2018 logged 12,400 to facilities such as factories. It has 3 independent divisions focused on equities: Capital World Investors, Capital Research Global Investors and Capital International Investors.\n\nAs of 2019, it had 36 funds. Growth Fund of America, founded in 1973, was the largest actively-managed fund as of 2020 with around $150 billion.\n\nAs of 2019, the company is owned by 450 partners.\n\nCapital Group employs more than 7,500 associates worldwide. North American locations include Atlanta, Los Angeles, San Antonio, Indianapolis, New York, San Francisco, Toronto and Washington, D.C. As part of expansion plans in Europe, Capital Group established a presence in Frankfurt, Madrid, Milan and Zurich, adding to its offices in Geneva, London and Luxembourg. Its Asia offices include Beijing, Hong Kong, Mumbai, Singapore and Tokyo. Capital Group also has a growing presence in Sydney and a private equity office in São Paulo.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2007362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007362", "title": "Abu Dawood", "text": "Abu Dawood\n\nAbū Dā’ūd Sulaymān ibn al-Ash‘ath ibn Isḥāq al-Azdī al-Sijistānī ), commonly known simply as Abu Dawud, was a Persian scholar of prophetic hadith who compiled the third of the six \"canonical\" hadith collections recognized by Sunni Muslims, the \"Sunan Abu Dāwūd\".\nAbū Dā’ūd was born in Sijistān, and died in 889 in Basra, Iraq. Many scholars believe he was born in Baluchistan, now part of Iran and Pakistan, and later moved to Khurāsān. He traveled widely collecting ḥadīth (traditions) from scholars in Iraq, Egypt, Syria, Hijaz, Tihamah, Nishapur, and Merv among other places. His focus on legal ḥadīth arose from a particular interest in fiqh (law). His collection included 4,800 ḥadīth, selected from some 500,000. His son, Abū Bakr ‘Abd Allāh ibn Abī Dā’ūd (d. 928/929), was a well known \"ḥāfiẓ\" and author of \"Kitāb al-Masābīh\", whose famous pupil was Abū 'Abd Allāh al-Marzubānī.\n\nImam Abu Dawud was a follower of Hanbali although some have consider him Shafi.\n\nImam Abu Dawud himself has stated: \"From this book of mine four (4) Hadith are sufficient for an intelligent and insightful person. They are:\n\nPrincipal among his twenty-one works:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2007363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007363", "title": "Hit Parade (Audio Adrenaline album)", "text": "Hit Parade (Audio Adrenaline album)\n\nHit Parade is Audio Adrenaline's first greatest hits album. It features fifteen hits from the band's previous albums, plus two new songs: \"Will Not Fade\" and \"One Like You\".\n\nThe album received favorable reviews from critics with John DiBiase, of Jesus Freak Hideout, giving it 4.5 stars out of 5. DiBiase classified it as \"one of the best and most solid collections\" he has heard while calling the two new songs as \"superb\". Dacia Blodgett-Williams, of AllMusic, gave the album 3 stars out of 5, writing that \"while no doubt original in many aspects, all of Audio Adrenaline's music on this particular album began to sound alike after several tracks.\" She also classified the song \"Get Down\" as \"the best introduction to the group, and perhaps the most original in its sound.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2007365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007365", "title": "Evil Con Carne", "text": "Evil Con Carne\n\nEvil Con Carne is an American animated television series/spin-off of \"Grim & Evil\" and sister show of \"The Grim Adventures of Billy & Mandy\", created by Maxwell Atoms. The series first appeared on Cartoon Network during the show \"Grim & Evil\", along with \"The Grim Adventures of Billy & Mandy\". Thirteen more half-hour episodes of \"Grim & Evil\" were produced, but the two series later became separate programs in 2003. While \"The Grim Adventures of Billy & Mandy\" ran for six seasons, \"Evil Con Carne\" only ran for fourteen episodes and ended on October 22, 2004. It was also part of Cartoon Network's brand, \"Cartoon Cartoons\", and is the 15th and final cartoon of the series (albeit when it was part of \"Grim & Evil\", due to the \"Cartoon Cartoons\" brand being temporarily discontinued earlier in October 2003; the show itself is considered by some to be a \"Cartoon Cartoon\" regardless). An official series finale, titled \"Company Halt\", aired on March 16, 2007.\n\nHector Con Carne was a \"jillionaire playboy\" crime lord and evil genius bent on taking over the world and the League of Nations. Eventually, he was caught in an explosion initiated by his nemesis, Cod Commando, a soldier for the Secret Paramilitary Organized Response Kommand (S.P.O.R.K.). The explosion scattered most of his body across the world. He was rescued by a scientist, the curvaceous Major Dr. Ghastly, who placed his living remains into two containment units: one for his brain, and the other for his stomach. These two units were later installed into Boskov, a purple Russian circus bear, giving Con Carne's brain control over (almost) all of the bear's actions and movements.\n\nHector, Dr. Ghastly and his military leader, General Skarr, then created a secret laboratory on an island with a bunny-shaped mountain known as \"Bunny Island\" (a parody of Blofeld's lair in the James Bond movies). Gathering an army, Con Carne resumed his quest for world domination and made a new goal: to find his missing body parts.\n\nThe \"\"Con Carne\"\" of the title is Spanish/Italian for \"with meat\", as well as a pun on the expression \"evil incarnate\" and the dish \"chili con carne\".\n\n\"Evil Con Carne's\" original show, \"Grim & Evil\", became the result of a viewer's poll in 2000. The poll, titled \"Big Pick\", was held on the internet from June 16 to August 25, 2000. The three choices for short films to become animated series were \"Grim & Evil\" (shown as \"Meet the Reaper\"), \"Whatever Happened to... Robot Jones?\", and \"Longhair and Doubledome\". After the event, the \"Meet the Reaper\" short film won with 57% of the vote and soon became \"Grim & Evil\". While \"Whatever Happened to... Robot Jones?\" became an animated series in 2002, \"Longhair and Doubledome\" appeared at another \"Big Pick\" event, but lost once again.\n\n\"Grim & Evil\" premiered on August 24, 2001, and was put on hiatus on October 18, 2002. In 2003, 13 more half-hour episodes of \"Grim & Evil\" were made, but aired when Cartoon Network separated the two series, and \"The Grim Adventures of Billy and Mandy\" and \"Evil Con Carne\" earned their own full-length series. However during 2003 once \"Evil Con Carne\" became separate from \"The Grim Adventures of Billy and Mandy\" the previous episodes of \"Evil Con Carne\" that first aired on \"Grim & Evil\" where shown only (meaning that this short-lived series was essentially re-runs). In 2004, the series returned with newly produced episodes (as well as the newer designs of the characters) only to be cancelled once again later that year.\n\nAfter \"Evil Con Carne\" was cancelled, its characters appeared in \"The Grim Adventures of Billy & Mandy\". The first cameo was in the episode \"Chicken Ball Z\" which ended with Mandy purchasing Hector's Bunny Island. General Skarr moved to Billy's neighborhood in the episode \"Skarred for Life\" after Bunny Island was bought out by an \"entertainment corporation that didn't want competition in world domination\". Since then General Skarr has been a recurring character in the \"Grim Adventures\". In the episode \"Company Halt\", Con Carne and Ghastly appear in Endsville, in order to recruit Skarr and revive Evil Con Carne (the organization, not the show) in another attempt to take over the world; naturally, like most of their other schemes and misadventures, it ends in failure. According to Tom Warburton, characters from Evil Con Carne were originally set to appear in the television special \"The Grim Adventures of the KND\". Hector, General Skarr, and Dr. Ghastly (strangely, they're \"costumed\" by Lazlo, Raj, and Clam) did briefly appear in the crossover's end credits in a crossover with \"Camp Lazlo\" titled \"Evil Camp Carne\".\n\nOn July 29, 2016, the series aired re-runs for a single day on Cartoon Network's sister channel, Boomerang, in the United States, despite the schedule for Boomerang saying that \"The Grim Adventures of Billy & Mandy\" was airing in its timeslot. It is currently unknown whether or not the series will return to Boomerang's schedule in the future.\n\n\nThe five season one episodes are included as bonus features in the Season 1 DVD set for \"The Grim Adventures of Billy & Mandy\". On August 16, 2018, the entire series was added to the iTunes Store under a single volume.\n\nNOTE: The first season of \"Evil Con Carne\" consists of 27 segments. 26 of them were originally produced for \"Grim & Evil\", while the only bonus non-\"Grim & Evil\" segment was \"Ultimate Evil\", which premiered in the same half-hour on October 22, 2004 as \"The Grim Adventures of Billy & Mandy\" segment \"Five-O-Clock Shadows\", making it the 2004 \"Billy & Mandy\"/\"Evil Con Carne\" combo, believing that it could've been a new \"Grim & Evil\" half-hour.\n\n"}
{"id": "2007367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007367", "title": "Abu Dawud", "text": "Abu Dawud\n\n"}
{"id": "2007372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007372", "title": "Paul Thompson (musician)", "text": "Paul Thompson (musician)\n\nPaul Thompson (born 13 May 1951) is an English drummer, who is best known as drummer for the rock band Roxy Music (from 1971 to 1980 and then from 2001 onwards). He was also the drummer for the Oi! band, Angelic Upstarts and the American alternative rock band Concrete Blonde. He is a member of Andy Mackay's project with the Metaphors and joined the reformed Lindisfarne in 2013.\n\nThompson was born in Newcastle upon Tyne, Northumberland. He lived in Jarrow, north-east England, from the age of six months and attended West Simonside Infants and Junior School.\n\nIn 1965, Thompson joined The Tyme who played at local youth clubs. His next group was a local band called The Urge, which he joined when 17 years old. Fatigue from performing with them seven nights a week in local clubs and pubs led him to fall asleep on his job as an apprentice metalworker, which resulted in his dismissal.\n\nAlongside John Miles, he was a member of The Influence. Thompson joined Roxy Music in 1971 and was credited as drummer on six albums, as well as touring and performing on solo records with his bandmates Bryan Ferry, Brian Eno, Andy Mackay and Phil Manzanera. In 1980, Thompson took leave from Roxy Music due to a thumb injury. Later that year he left the band, owing to musical differences between himself and Bryan Ferry. During this period Thompson played with rock band Concrete Blonde.\n\nIn 1987 Thompson joined the RAF in Squadron 2624 RAuxAF (County of Oxfordshire) attaining the rank of corporal, he left in 1993.\n\nIn 2001, he reunited with fellow Roxy Music band members for a tour. He also toured with Ferry, supporting his \"Frantic\" album in 2003 and also appeared at the Isle of Wight Festival 2005 on 11 June 2005.. Thompson played live gigs with Andy Mackay The Metaphors and was credited on their C.D \"London! Paris! New York! Rome!\" in 2009. He joined the Newcastle upon Tyne Lindisfarne in 2013.\n\nDrummer Roger Taylor of the new wave band Duran Duran has stated that Thompson's drumming was a big influence over his development. Fans of Thompson nicknamed him \"The Great Paul Thompson\", because of his drumming skills and power.\n\n"}
{"id": "2007377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007377", "title": "Sunan Abu Dawood", "text": "Sunan Abu Dawood\n\nSunan Abu Dawood () is one of the \"Kutub al-Sittah\" (six major hadith collections), collected by Abu Dawood.\n\nAbu Dawood compiled twenty-one books related to Hadith and preferred those ahadith which were supported by the example of the companions of Muhammad. As for the contradictory ahadith, he states under the heading of 'Meat acquired by hunting for a pilgrim': \"if there are two contradictory reports from the Prophet (SAW), an investigation should be made to establish what his companions have adopted\". He wrote in his letter to the people of Mecca \"I have disclosed wherever there was too much weakness in regard to any tradition in my collection. But if I happen to leave a Hadith without any comment, it should be considered as sound, albeit some of them are more authentic than others\". Hadith Mursal (a tradition in which a companion is omitted and a successor narrates directly from Muhammad) has also been a matter of discussion among the traditionists. Abu Dawood states in his letter to the people of Mecca: \"if a Musnad Hadith (uninterrupted tradition) is not contrary to a Mursal or a Musnad Hadith is not found, then the Mursal Hadith will be accepted though it would not be considered as strong as a Muttasil Hadith (uninterrupted chain)\".\n\nThe traditions in \"Sunan Abu Dawood\" are divided in three categories. The first category consists of those traditions that are mentioned by Bukhari and/or Muslim. The second type of traditions are those which fulfil the conditions of Bukhari or Muslim. At this juncture, it should be remembered that Bukhari said, \"I only included in my book Sahih Bukhari authentic traditions, and left out many more authentic ones than these to avoid unnecessary length\".\n\nAbu Dawood collected 500,000 hadith, but included only 4,800 in this collection. Sunnis regard this collection as fourth in strength of their six major hadith collections. It took Abu Dawod 20 years to collect the hadiths. He made a series of journeys to meet most of the foremost traditionists of his time and acquired from them the most reliable hadiths, quoting sources through which it reached him. Since the author collected hadiths which no one had ever assembled together, his sunan has been accepted as a standard work by scholars from many parts of the Islamic world, especially after Ibn al-Qaisarani's inclusion of it in the formal canonization of the six major collections.\n\nThe book is divided into 43 chapters.\n\n\n\"Sunan Abu Dawood\" has been translated into numerous languages. The Australian Islamic Library has collected 11 commentaries on this book in Arabic, Urdu and Indonesian.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2007385", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007385", "title": "BRLESC", "text": "BRLESC\n\nThe BRLESC I (Ballistic Research Laboratories Electronic Scientific Computer) was a first-generation electronic computer built by the United States Army's Ballistic Research Laboratory (BRL) at Aberdeen Proving Ground with assistance from the National Bureau of Standards (now the National Institute of Standards and Technology), and was designed to take over the computational workload of EDVAC and ORDVAC, which themselves were successors of ENIAC. It began operation in 1962. The Ballistic Research Laboratory became a part of the US Army Research Laboratory in 1992.\n\nBRLESC was designed primarily for scientific and military tasks requiring high precision and high computational speed, such as ballistics problems, army logistical problems, and weapons systems evaluations. It contained 1727 vacuum tubes and 853 transistors and had a memory of 4096 72-bit words. BRLESC employed punched cards, magnetic tape, and a magnetic drum as input-output devices, which could be operated simultaneously.\n\nIt was capable of five million (bitwise) operations per second. A fixed-point addition took 5 microseconds, a floating-point addition took 5 to 10 microseconds, a multiplication (fixed- or floating-point) took 25 microseconds, and a division (fixed- or floating-point) took 65 microseconds. (These times are including the memory access time, which was 4-5 microseconds.)\n\nBRLESC and its predecessor, ORDVAC, used their own unique notation for hexadecimal numbers. Instead of the sequence A B C D E F universally used today, the digits ten to fifteen were represented by the letters K S N J F L, corresponding to the teletypewriter characters on five-track paper tape.\n\nBRESLEC II using integrated circuits became operational in November 1967; it was designed to be 200 times faster than ORDVAC\n"}
{"id": "2007388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007388", "title": "Home Grown", "text": "Home Grown\n\nHome Grown was a North American skapunk/pop punk band formed in 1994 in Orange County, California. They released three full-length albums and several EPs before disbanding in 2005. Their music is often characterized as pop punk, lyrically favoring humor and silly or satirical subjects.\n\nHome Grown was formed in Orange County in 1994. The original recording line-up of the band consisted of John \"John E. Trash\" Tran on guitar and vocals, Adam \"Adumb\" Lohrbach on bass guitar and vocals, Ian \"Slur\" Cone on guitar and backing vocals, and Bob Herco on drums. The quartet began experimenting with elements of punk rock, pop, surf and skate music, and humorous lyrics to craft their sound. They released their first album, \"That's Business\", the following year through Liberation Records. Though rudimentary, the album established the band's presence in the prolific southern California music scene of the 1990s and included several songs that became fan favorites, such as \"Surfer Girl\" and \"Face in the Crowd\". The band played many shows in southern California and embarked on some of their first tours. In 1996, the EP \"Wusappaning?!\" was released by Swedish label Burning Heart Records.\n\nThe band signed to major label Outpost Recordings and released its second album, \"Act Your Age\", in 1998. It increased their popularity and they toured extensively in support of it. The album had peaked at #24 on Billboard's Heatseekers chart in 1998. During this era of the band, the song \"We are Dumb\" appeared on the soundtracks of movies \"Half Baked\" and \"Homegrown\". Cone left the band shortly after and was replaced by Justin Poyser. This line-up released \"EP Phone Home\" in 1999. Later that year they toured with the band Limbeck, with whom they recorded a split EP called \"Connection\".\n\nIn 2000, Home Grown experienced significant line-up changes. Herco was forced to leave the group in order to undergo surgery and rehabilitation for a brain tumor. Poyser also left, leaving the band without a second guitar player. Lohrbach and Tran recruited Darren Reynolds from the band Longfellow as the new drummer, and spent some time searching for a suitable second guitarist. In addition, their label Outpost closed down and the band was without a recording contract. Eventually the band decided to continue as a trio without a second guitarist, and signed to the independent label Drive-Thru Records.\n\nIn 2002, the band released \"Kings of Pop\", its third album which gained nationwide recognition. Shortly after its release they added second guitarist Dan Hammond and filmed music videos for the songs \"You're Not Alone\" and \"Kiss Me, Diss Me\". They performed on the Drive-Thru stage on the Warped Tour and toured extensively in support of the album. In 2004, they released the EP \"When it All Comes Down\", a more mature effort that abandoned the humorous topics of their previous releases in favor of more emotional subject matter. The album was reissued in 2014 on 12\" vinyl through Mutant League Records.\n\nIn February 2005, Lohrbach left Home Grown to join the band New Years Day. The band continued without him for a time, playing live shows with guest bass guitarist Ted Vega. Eventually, however, the members moved on to other projects. Tran started the band Red Panda with Bill Uechi of Save Ferris, Hammond joined Paper Models, and Reynolds started Defender. Herco resurfaced in 2004 playing drums with a shortlived band by the name of Ugly, out of Orange, CA. In 2006, Home Grown's official website closed down and their MySpace profile announced that they were on \"indefinite hiatus\". The band has not played together or recorded since October 2005.\n\n"}
{"id": "2007397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007397", "title": "Lift (Audio Adrenaline album)", "text": "Lift (Audio Adrenaline album)\n\nLift is the sixth studio album by Christian rock band Audio Adrenaline, released in 2001.\n\nThe concept of the album \"Lift\" came from several meanings, according to guitarist Tyler Burkum. In an interview with Jesus Freak Hideout, Burkum said:\n\nBurkum also said that the worship nature of most of the songs was not something they planned, but that surged eventually during the writing/recording process. This is also the first album where Burkum and lead singer Mark Stuart share most of the lead vocals.\n\nUnlike their previous albums, \"Lift\" was not recorded in a traditional studio. The band bought a house in a neighborhood on Nashville, Tennessee, and turned it into a studio. Guitarist Tyler Burkum said in an interview that it was \"really cool, really fun. That made it for a really low key, low stress atmosphere.\"\n\nThe album was well received by the audience becoming the second album from Audio Adrenaline to be certified gold by RIAA. It was also received well by critics. John DiBiase, of Jesus Freak Hideout, gave the album 5 stars out of 5 calling the album \"amazing\", \"a brilliant step for this pop/rock icon\" and \"the band's best record to date\". Tony Cummings, of Cross Rhythms, gave the album a similar excellent review (10 out of 10) also calling it \"their best album ever\". Steve Losey, of AllMusic, gave the album 3 stars out of 5, writing that the album \"proves [the band] still have the chops to reign as one of the best bands Christian music has to offer\" while also praising Mark Stuart vocals. Both Losey and DiBiase specifically praised the song \"Ocean Floor\" calling it \"one of the best sonic offerings on the release\" and \"the song that will have the greatest impact from the album\".\n\nThe album peaked at No. 169 on \"Billboard\" 200.\n\nMusic videos were released for the songs \"Ocean Floor\" and \"Rejoice\".\n\nIn November 2002, a year after the album's released, the band released a DVD to complement the album. The DVD contains three music videos, song clips from the album, and featurettes containing interviews and other footage.\n\nNote\n\nAudio Adrenaline\n\nProduction\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2007404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007404", "title": "Rising (Donovan album)", "text": "Rising (Donovan album)\n\nRising is the third live album, and twentieth album overall, from British singer-songwriter Donovan. It was released on Permanent Records in 1990 (LP and CD). The live versions of Donovan's hits guaranteed that \"Rising\" would receive a release in both the United States and United Kingdom. \"Rising\" was retitled \"The Classics Live\" in the United States, \"25 Years in Concert\" in Europe and \"Atlantis\" in the UK for marketing reasons. Since the release of \"Rising\", there have been many reissues of the songs from the album under many different titles.\n\n\"Rising\" was supposedly recorded sporadically from 1982 through 1986 at various live concerts during different world tours. However, after careful research the songs on the album came from are revealed as a U.S. tour in 1971 and from the Cambridge Folk Festival of 1981.\n\nAlthough Donovan's albums had all but disappeared from the British and American markets by the early 1980s, his live appearances still attracted large audiences. Donovan toured constantly throughout this time, performing throughout North America and Europe.\n\nThe setlists from these shows features a mixture of Donovan's international hits from the 1960s and relatively more obscure tracks from his later albums. Like most of Donovan's live performances, there is sparse instrumentation accompanying Donovan's vocals, including flute, acoustic guitar, bass. \"Rising\" features two traditional songs (\"Young But Growing\" and \"Stealing\") and one original song (\"Love Will Find a Way\") that were not released on any previous Donovan album.\n\nIn 2001, \"Rising\" was expanded to a two-CD set as \"Rising Again\".\n\nAll tracks by Donovan Leitch, except where noted.\n\n\"Young But Growing\", \"Stealing\" and \"Love Will Find a Way\" are previously unreleased compositions. All recordings previously unreleased except for \"Sadness\" and \"Universal Soldier\" (see \"\")\n\nThe vinyl release has 15 tracks, the CD release has 18 tracks\n\n\nMixed by Richard Nathan\n\nA list of reissues\n"}
{"id": "2007408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007408", "title": "Borg-Warner Trophy", "text": "Borg-Warner Trophy\n\nThe Borg-Warner Trophy is the trophy presented to the winner of the Indianapolis 500. It is named for and was commissioned by automotive supplier BorgWarner. It is permanently housed at the Indianapolis Motor Speedway Museum in Speedway, Indiana. Unveiled at a 1936 dinner hosted by then-Speedway owner Eddie Rickenbacker, the trophy was officially declared the annual prize for Indianapolis 500 victors. It was first presented at the 24th annual 500-mile race, where Louis Meyer, that year's champion and its first recipient, soon thereafter remarked, \"Winning the Borg-Warner Trophy is like winning an Olympic medal.\"\n\nSimon Pagenaud won the 2019 Indianapolis 500, and is the current reigning champion. Each year, the winning driver is presented with a miniature replica (\"Baby Borg\") during a reception, which for the 2019 race was presented in early September, about three months after the race. Prior to the trophy's inception, the Strauss Trophy (first awarded in 1919) was once presented to the winner. The Wheeler-Schebler Trophy was awarded to the leader at the 400-mile mark, but was retired when car owner Harry Hartz claimed it three times.\n\nThe trophy, which has been presented in the winner's circle after every race since 1936, is a very large, multi-tiered item which bears the bas-relief sculpture of the likeness of each driver to have won the race since its inception in 1911. Inscribed are the winner's name, year of victory, and average speed. This information is alternated with the faces in a checkerboard pattern. Included on the base is the gold likeness of Tony Hulman, owner of the Indianapolis Motor Speedway from 1945 to 1977. On the top of the trophy is an unclothed man waving a checkered flag. Because this man is depicted naked, after the tradition of ancient Greek athletes, the trophy is most often photographed so that the man's arm is swooping down in front of him.\n\nIn 1935, the Borg-Warner Automotive Company commissioned designer Robert J. Hill and Gorham, Inc., of Providence, Rhode Island to create the trophy at a cost of $10,000. The trophy underwent a refurbishment in 1991 and again in 2004. Today it is insured in excess of $1.3 million.\n\nMade of sterling silver, the trophy is just under tall and weighs nearly . The trophy body itself is hollow, and the dome-shaped top is removable. From 1936 to 1985, the trophy appeared in its original form, with the bottom rim of the body serving as its stand. The original body had room for 70 winners of the Indy 500, and was destined to fill up after the 1986 winner was affixed. During the early years, the trophy was polished often for protection, but appeared too seldom be buffed to a glossy \"mirror finish\" and often was seen with a dull or matte finish. At no point has the trophy been allowed to fall in a state of tarnish or major disrepair. When the race was suspended during World War II, the trophy was stored in a secure location.\n\nA base was added in 1986 to accommodate more winners, similar to what has been done with the Stanley Cup. In 1991, the trophy went through a thorough restoration. In 2004, the first base was removed, and replaced with a new, larger base to accommodate more winners. Enough space is currently available to hold all winners through 2033.\n\nSince 1990 the winning drivers' likenesses on both the Borg-Warner Trophy and the replica trophies have been sculpted by prominent American sculptor William Behrends, who also created the statue of baseball great Willie Mays that stands at the entrance to Oracle Park in San Francisco.\n\nThe actual perpetual trophy is not given to the winner; it remains at the Indianapolis Motor Speedway Museum on the grounds of the Indianapolis Motor Speedway. The winning drivers since 1988 have been presented with an tall free-standing replica of the trophy, sitting on a beveled square base. Officially titled the \"Indianapolis 500 Champion Driver's Trophy,\", it has been affectionately nicknamed the \"Baby Borg.\" The Baby Borg is typically presented the following January at a Speedway reception or at the North American International Auto Show in Detroit, near trophy sponsor BorgWarner's headquarters. \n\nStarting with the 1997 race, a second Baby Borg was added, presented to the winning car owner(s), officially named the \"Indianapolis 500 Champion Owner's Trophy\". The owner's trophy is nearly identical to the driver's trophy, except it is mounted upon a round base. Multiple owner's trophies are presented if there are co-owners to the winning team.\n\nThe bas-relief likenesses from the main trophy are not replicated on the Baby Borgs, nor is the cylindrical base of the main trophy (the first of which was added in 1986). In some years, a duplicate of the sculpted likeness of the winner has been affixed to the beveled base of the driver's Baby Borg trophy. The driver's trophy can be lifted from its base if desired. \n\nPrior to 1988, winners received an upright model of the trophy mounted on a walnut plaque. Since then, some pre-1988 winners have been presented with the newer Baby Borg version. In 2011, race winner Dan Wheldon was fatally injured before he received his Baby Borg. His widow Susie accepted the trophy in his honor. \n\nIn 2013, with Parnelli Jones, the Speedway began the tradition of giving living winners the current Champion Drivers Trophy on their 50th anniversary of their wins if they had not been given a Baby Borg. Parnelli Jones (2013), Mario Andretti (2019), and Al Unser, Sr. (2020) have been awarded with such on their 50th anniversaries of their wins. (A. J. Foyt has an owner's Baby Borg from 1999.)\n\nWhile the perpetual trophy is not given the winner, it has on occasion, traveled to various locations to honor the winner. Most recently in 2017, the trophy traveled to Japan accompanying Takuma Sato on a victory tour of his home country.\n\nOdd features have been put on the driver's likeness on the \"Baby Borg\" since it was introduced in 1988. In 2013, Parnelli Jones' trophy featured a cowboy hat on his head (prior to 1970, champions were wearing an open-face helmet on their sculptures; since the bas-relief bust of the driver was newly created by the current sculptor, it was done without helmet and with the cowboy hat he wore primarily during that season). In 2019, because of fan requests, Simon Pagenaud's Baby Borg also featured the likeness of his Jack Russell terrier Norman. BorgWarner added a donation to the Humane Society of Indiana as part of the event, primarily because the dog had participated in the winner's circle photos.\n\nFor the 2019 race, the \"Baby Borg\" was presented at a Team Penske breakfast in Mooresville, North Carolina before the INDYCAR season ended. \n\nThe trophy has had quite a history; track historian Donald Davidson has noted a particular story in which a Butler University student was given the trophy to watch in the 1930s before race day. The young man hid the trophy under his bed one night and proceeded to have a night out. Upon his return to his fraternity house, the man found the trophy missing. He looked and looked and became very worried about the trophy's whereabouts. Upon looking in the frat house's basement, he found the trophy surrounded by men who were drinking beer out of it. All of 115 beers were inside of the trophy. Emptying the beer, he wondered how he would get the smell off of the trophy and decided to take a shower – taking the trophy in with him.\n\nThe winner of the 1950 Indianapolis 500, Johnnie Parsons, had his name misspelled on the trophy. It was scripted into the silver as \"Johnny\" Parsons (which incidentally, is how his son's name was spelled). During the 1991 restoration, it was proposed by the handlers to correct the spelling, though Parsons had already died seven years earlier. The decision was made to leave the misspelling in place, as part of the trophy's historic lore.\n\nThrough 1985, the trophy was hoisted by handlers directly behind the driver, typically on the roll bar of the car. The trophy could be easily carried by one individual, and was usually simple to transport. After the trophy was affixed with a base in 1986, the trophy's weight, height, and stability became an issue with displaying it on top of the car. At least two men were required to balance the trophy behind the driver. Since about 2004, when the trophy was expanded with the newer base, it is no longer hoisted behind the driver. Initially, the now-heavier trophy was displayed next to the car. However, the trophy was often mired in the tight, crowded confines of victory lane, and became less visible and even risked damage due to the bustling, celebrating crowd. For 2012, coinciding with the introduction of the DW-12 chassis, a special platform was constructed that fits between or behind the rear wheels and rear wing of the cars. The trophy is now placed upon this platform during the victory lane celebration, giving it once again a prominent and more visible presence during the celebration. \n\nTwo or more safety patrol workers are assigned with guarding and transporting the trophy during the month of May. It is polished often, and polished several times during the month of May. In contrast to the earlier years, the trophy is almost exclusively polished and buffed to an elegant, glossy, \"mirror finish.\" During routine times of the month, it is usually situated upon a large, sturdy, custom-built rolling platform.\n\nThe trophy has appeared in several films, including \"Winning\", starring Paul Newman, and \"Turbo\". During the month of May, the trophy has several prominent locations for display. During time trials, the trophy is typically displayed outdoors on a platform near the start/finish line. During down times, it returns to the museum. It also makes several appearances, including the Public Drivers' Meeting and the 500 Festival Parade, as well as prominent socials events and gatherings (such as banquets and balls downtown).\n\nThe Borg-Warner Trophy was exclusively featured on the cover of the Indianapolis 500 Official Program in 1981, 1998, and 2002. It also appeared on the cover in lesser prevalence in 1988, 1996, and 2006. It is depicted in the cover art of the Atari video game \"Indy 500\", in the Midway pinball machine \"Indianapolis 500\", and on the cover art for the Papyrus \"IndyCar Racing\" Indianapolis Motor Speedway Expansion Pack.\n\nWhen the trophy debuted in 1936, it was complete with the likenesses of all winners from 1911 to 1935 (except 1917–1918, as the race was not held those two years due to World War I). Sculptor John Grawe created the twenty-four likenesses representing the first 23 races, including the two co-winners for the 1924 race. Twenty-two of the likenesses were created featuring the driver wearing his helmet and goggles. Two faces, those of 1912 winner Joe Dawson and 1921 winner Tommy Milton, showed the driver without a helmet.\n\nThe likeness were placed beginning with 1911 winner Ray Harroun situated in the middle of the front side. Subsequent faces were added encircling the trophy to the right. The next row would begin in the middle of the front, in the same column as Harroun.\n\nWhen the winners began to be added annually after 1936, most were depicted wearing a helmet through 1970. Floyd Davis, who co-won the 1941 race with Mauri Rose, was depicted without a helmet, while Rose was depicted with one. By 1946, most were shown without their goggles. The likeness of 1957 winner Sam Hanks was the final one to feature goggles. The likeness of 1970 winner Al Unser is the last to be depicted wearing a helmet (by that time, drivers were wearing full-face helmets, so the feasibility of helmets on drivers was impossible). When he won again the following year, his 1971 likeness was shown with natural hair. It has been standard practice to sculpt a brand new likeness for repeat winners, including drivers who have won in consecutive years.\n\nThe likeness of 1986 winner Bobby Rahal originally featured miniature glasses, as Rahal wore glasses at the time. The tiny spectacles were crafted from metal wire. In 1993, the trophy was reportedly bumped and the glasses fell off the trophy and were broken. The glasses were repaired and later reattached. Rahal failed to qualify for the 1993 race, and some superstitious observers pointed out the incident as a bad omen. The glasses were removed permanently after Rahal started wearing contacts in the mid-1990s. Tom Sneva, the 1983 winner, insisted his likeness include glasses, and they remain to this day.\n\nTwo drivers, both of whom are multiple winners, have their respective names depicted differently in different years. Four-time winner Al Unser, Sr. has his name listed as \"Al Unser\" for his likenesses of 1970, 1971, and 1978. He is listed as \"Al Unser Sr.\" for his 1987 win, owing much to the fact that his son (two-time winner Al Unser, Jr.) was now a driver. Two-time winner Juan Pablo Montoya is listed as \"Juan Montoya\" for 2000 and as \"Juan Pablo Montoya\" for 2015.\n\nFollowing the 1985 Indianapolis 500, the likeness of race winner Danny Sullivan was added to the trophy. His face filled the 69th of the original 70 squares on the trophy body. Only one square remained on the body, which would be filled by the 1986 winner.\n\nIn the weeks prior to the 1986 Indianapolis 500, in celebration of the trophy's 50th anniversary, a new cylindrical three-row base was added to the bottom of the trophy. It featured room for an additional 18 faces. On the base, the first square was filled with a gold likeness of the late Speedway president Tony Hulman. The base increased the height of the trophy to , and the weight to about .\n\nThe trophy spent the month of May 1986 with one empty square left on the body, and now room for 17 additional winners on the base. The base would have enough room for winners through 2003. Bobby Rahal won the 1986 race, and was the final likeness added to the body of the trophy.\n\nAl Unser, Sr. won the 1987 race, and became the first race winner to have his likeness added to the first base of the trophy. Unser also became the first winner to have likenesses on the body of the trophy (1970, 1971, 1978) as well as the base (1987). The layout and lettering of the base mimicked that of the trophy body. The driver's name was enscripted in one single line, followed by the year on the next line, and the race average speed below on the third line.\n\nThe likeness of 1989 Indianapolis 500 winner Emerson Fittipaldi was created by 88-year old French sculptor Louis Feron, using the repassé technique. Feron used a single flat sheet of silver and painstakingly hammered it into the shape of Fittipaldi's face.\n\nIn 1991, a restoration project was conducted on the trophy. As part of the project, a reinforcement rim was added to the base for stability. The refurbishment increased the height of the trophy to , and the weight to over .\n\nThe final likeness added to the original base was that of Hélio Castroneves, winner of the 2002 race.\n\nFollowing the 2003 race the original base added in 1986 was removed and replaced with a similar looking one. It consisted of five rows of twelve squares, allowing room for 48 faces. The likenesses of Tony Hulman and the 1987– 2002 winners were relocated to the new base. The likeness of 2003 winner Gil de Ferran was the first new face to be added to the new base. The new base added at least and more than to the trophy, which now stands at , and weighs nearly . The current base is expected to accommodate winners through 2033.\n\nOne notable difference on the new base is reflected in the descriptions. All listings on the new base script the driver's first name on the first line, surname on the second line, followed by the year on the third line, and average speed on the fourth line. On the old base, and on the trophy body, the drivers' names are written in one single line.\n\nDue to the increased weight and size of the trophy, it was no longer possible to hoist the trophy atop the winning car in victory lane. Handlers would place the trophy on the ground in victory lane, near the rear of the machine, but this often left the trophy obscured from view by the many people surrounding the car. Likewise in the tight confines of victory lane, the trophy was now susceptible to someone bumping into it, risking damage, requiring special care by the handlers. Starting in 2012, with the introduction of the Dallara DW-12 chassis, a special platform was constructed to display the trophy in a more prominent fashion in victory lane. As soon as the car pulls into victory lane, the customized platform is securely placed behind the rear wing or over one of the rear wheels. The trophy is immediately placed upon the platform, and is displayed in a safer and highly visible location. In addition, during the month when the trophy is displayed trackside, it is typically placed on a decorative dolly for easy transportation.\n\n"}
{"id": "2007410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007410", "title": "Fritz Wintersteller", "text": "Fritz Wintersteller\n\nFritz Wintersteller (21 October 1927 – 15 September 2018) was an Austrian mountaineer who made the first ascent of Broad Peak together with Hermann Buhl, Kurt Diemberger, and Marcus Schmuck in 1957.\n\nAlthough never a professional climber, he climbed almost every 4000m-mountain in the Alps, including first ascents of Hochkogel (north face) and Wiesspitze. Three other side summits over 4000m were apparently considered by him to be \"not beautiful enough\" to climb.\n\nIn his later years, he made several trips to Alaska for long ski tours and rafting several rivers. As of 2010 he was living in Salzburg, Austria. Due to difficulties with his hips he spent most of his time bicycling. \n\nData from \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2007417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007417", "title": "Rahal Letterman Lanigan Racing", "text": "Rahal Letterman Lanigan Racing\n\nRahal Letterman Lanigan Racing is an auto racing team that has participated in the WeatherTech SportsCar Championship and the IndyCar Series. Headquartered in Brownsburg, Indiana and Hilliard, Ohio, it is co-owned by 1986 Indianapolis 500 winner Bobby Rahal, former television talk show host David Letterman, and businessman Mike Lanigan.\n\nThe team was established in 1991 as Rahal/Hogan Racing, became Team Rahal in 1996, and was known as Rahal Letterman Racing from May 2004 until December 2010. Throughout the team's history in IMSA with factory partner BMW, the team has run under the name BMW Team RLL.\n\nFollowing the 1991 CART season, Bobby Rahal left the Galles-Kraco Racing team. Despite consistent top finishes, Rahal won only two races from 1989–1991. Likewise, Danny Sullivan left the Patrick Racing team, following a dismal season with the Alfa Romeo engine. The two drivers essentially swapped rides. Sullivan joined Galles, and Rahal signed with Patrick in September 1991.\n\nBy the winter of 1991, however, Patrick Racing started to collapse due to financial and legal issues regarding the Alfa Romeo engine. Ilmor had refused to supply the Chevy/A engine to Patrick due to rumors that one of the Chevrolet Indy car engines had been provided to Alfa-Romeo.\n\nTo ensure that Rahal would not be racing an uncompetitive engine in 1992, Patrick sold his assets to Rahal and new partner Carl Hogan, who was able to secure a supply of Chevy engines. A new team was formed, known as Rahal/Hogan Racing, with key personnel from Patrick Racing, such as team manager Jim McGee, moving over to the new organization.\n\nIn 1992, the team won the IndyCar World Series title on their first try, with owner-driver Bobby Rahal driving a Lola T92/00 to 4 victories during the season.\n\nIn late 1992, Rahal/Hogan absorbed the Truesports racing team, which Rahal had started his CART career with. The team moved its headquarters from Indianapolis to Hilliard, into the old Truesports facility. Along with the acquisition, they took over the Truesports \"All-American\" chassis program. Rahal began the 1993 season with an updated version of the Truesports chassis, with the intention of introducing a brand-new Rahal/Hogan chassis later in the year.\n\nA second-place finish at Long Beach offered some promise. The success was short-lived however, as the chassis proved uncompetitive on ovals. After Rahal failed to qualify at Indianapolis, the team switched to a more conventional Lola, while team driver Mike Groff entered several more races in the R/H-001. Eventually the team abandoned the chassis project.\n\nIn 1994, Rahal/Hogan introduced the Honda HRX Indy V-8 engine to the IndyCar World Series, having performed development testing for the engine throughout the 1993 season, but split with the manufacturer after Rahal finished a disappointing tenth place in the standings.\n\nAt Indianapolis, the engine proved uncompetitive, and Rahal risked missing the race for the second year in a row. He borrowed two Penske-Ilmor machines, and finished third in the race. In 1996, Carl Hogan left the team, and started his own racing operation. As a result, the team changed its name to Team Rahal and Hogan started Hogan Racing.\n\nIn early 1996, Rahal's longtime friend, and avid race fan, comedian David Letterman, purchased a small share of the team.\n\nOver the next few years, the team would employ Bryan Herta, Max Papis, Kenny Bräck, Jimmy Vasser and Michel Jourdain, Jr., getting closest to another title in 2001, when Bräck finished 2nd in points. Rahal himself retired from driving at the end of 1998.\n\nThe team changed its name again to Rahal Letterman Racing in May 2004. For the 2005 season, RLR's three drivers were Buddy Rice, who won the 2004 Indianapolis 500 while driving for the team, Vitor Meira, who finished second in the 2005 & 2008 Indianapolis 500s, and Danica Patrick, who finished fourth in the 2005 Indianapolis 500, and had the highest finish of any female driver (3 previous) in the history of the Indianapolis 500. Also in the 2005 Indianapolis 500, former team member Kenny Bräck, who was replaced by Rice when he suffered a serious injury in 2003, replaced Rice when he was injured in pre-race practice. Rice was able to recover in time to race in the next IndyCar race.\nThe Rahal Letterman team had high hopes for 2006. Meira had left the team after the 2005 season to join Panther Racing. He was replaced by Paul Dana who brought an Ethanol sponsorship. The team placed three cars in the top eight for the Toyota Indy 300 during March 25, 2006, qualifying (Patrick third, Rice sixth, Dana ninth), and expected good things to come the next day for the race at Homestead-Miami Speedway.\n\nDuring the final practice Sunday morning, Vision Racing's Ed Carpenter crashed in turn two and the car slid down the 20-degree banking. Dana, who seemed to not receive the signal from the spotter, ran into the gearbox section of Carpenter's car, sending Dana's car flying on the backstretch. Dana died in the hospital later that afternoon, and the entire team, including Patrick and Rice, withdrew immediately.\n\nPatrick and Rice raced together at St. Petersburg with the third car vacant out of respect, but effective the Bridgestone Indy Japan 300 at Motegi, Japan, Jeff Simmons was added as the team's third driver. In mid-2006 the team switched from Panoz to Dallara chassis. Rice finished 15th in points, Patrick finished 9th, and Simmons finished 16th.\n\nPrior to the 2006 Monterey Sports Car Championships, Rahal Letterman Racing announced that the team would be fielding a Porsche 997 GT3-RSR in the American Le Mans Series in 2007.\n\nFor the 2007 IndyCar Series, RLR fielded two cars, one for Simmons and one for IndyCar veteran Scott Sharp. They were unable to find sponsorship to field a third car for 2004 Indianapolis 500 champion Buddy Rice, who moved to Dreyer & Reinbold Racing. However, after 11 races, released Simmons and picked up former Champ Car driver Ryan Hunter-Reay, who earned a 7th-place finish at the Honda 200. Consistent finishes gave Ryan and the team the Rookie of the Year award despite making only six starts.\n\nIn the 2008 IndyCar Series season, RLR fielded just one car driven by Ryan Hunter-Reay. The team scored a win at the IndyCar Series event at Watkins Glen International and Hunter-Reay finished 8th in points. However at the end of the season the team's ethanol promotion council sponsorship left and it was unable to find full-time sponsorship for 2009.\n\nRLR did not participate full-time in the 2009 season due to a lack of sponsorship. With the sponsorship of DAFCA they participated in the 2009 Indianapolis 500, where driver Oriol Servià, after starting on the ninth row, advanced to tenth place but completed only 98 laps before being forced to quit due to mechanical problems.\n\nIn 2010, the team again failed to secure sponsorship for the full season. At the 2010 Indianapolis 500, the team arranged a one-race sponsorship entry for Graham Rahal. Rahal ran in the top ten until a blocking penalty shuffled him back in the standings, and he finished 12th.\n\nIn December 2010, Mike Lanigan, former co-owner of Newman-Haas-Lanigan Racing with Carl Haas and actor Paul Newman, became co-owner of what was renamed Rahal Letterman Lanigan Racing.\n\nThe team signed Jay Howard to drive the #88 car with Service Central sponsorship for the 2011 Indy 500. Bertrand Baguette also joined the team at the 500. Howard finished 30th after losing a wheel following a pit stop on lap 61, while Baguette would lead 11 laps late in the race before needing to pit for fuel with 3 laps to go. He would finish 7th.\n\nThe team returned to full-time IndyCar competition for 2012, running a single Dallara-Honda for Takuma Sato, who achieved two podium finishes at São Paulo and Edmonton. Michel Jourdain, Jr. returned to the team in a second car for the Indianapolis 500, where Sato came close to victory, crashing out on the final lap while attempting to pass Dario Franchitti for the lead.\n\nOn April 30, 2014, the team made history with Engage Mobile Solutions when four members of the RLL team including driver Graham Rahal and three members of the pit crew wore Google Glass to show an IndyCar Series pit stop from the unique perspective of each person on the racing team.\n\nAfter rotating through a series of drivers, including Jourdain, Jay Howard, and Mike Conway, Graham Rahal returned to RLL to contest the full 2013 season. Rahal struggled during the 2013 and 2014 seasons with only four top-5 finishes. However, he would have a breakout year in 2015, snapping a six-year winless streak at Auto Club Speedway and dueling Justin Wilson to win at his home track at Mid-Ohio. Rahal would end the 2015 season fourth in points after consecutive bad races at Pocono and Sonoma.\n\nFor 2016, the team remained a single car team, but added Indy Lights champion Spencer Pigot to the lineup for three races. Rahal would take a win at Texas Motor Speedway by only .008 of a second.\n\nIn 2018, RLL would re-sign Takuma Sato, who had previously won the 2017 Indianapolis 500 for Andretti Autosport. Sato would score his first win for the team at the 2018 Grand Prix of Portland, and would win twice more in the 2019 Indycar season, at Barber Motorsports Park and World Wide Technology Raceway at Gateway respectively.\n\nIn 2007, Rahal Letterman Racing fielded a Porsche 911 GT3 RSR for nine of the twelve races. The team's best results came as a second-place finish at Road America and a third-place finish at Petit Le Mans. The team finished 4th in the GT2 team championship with Tommy Milner and Ralf Kelleners 6th in the drivers championship.\n\nThe team returned to the series in 2009 with factory support from BMW and thus holds dual nationality team license (Germany and United States). The team fielded two E92 M3s, the #90 driven by Joey Hand and Bill Auberlen and the #92 driven by Tommy Milner and Dirk Müller. After a troubled season the #92 car finished second at the 2009 Petit Le Mans. The team finished 3rd in the team championship with Milner and Müller 4th in the drivers championship.\n\nIn 2010, the team continued their relationship with BMW and the American Le Mans Series. Despite only winning one race at Road America, Rahal Letterman Racing won the team championship while Bill Auberlen and Tommy Milner 3rd in the drivers championship.\n\n2011 was an even more successful year for the team. After a one-two finish at the 2011 12 Hours of Sebring the RLL Racing team would win two more races. Despite fierce competition from Corvette, Ferrari and Porsche, Rahal Letterman Lanigan Racing claimed the GT Teams and Manufacturers championships, While Joey Hand and Dirk Müller won the drivers championship. This was the second team championship for the team with the M3.\n\nIn 2012, the team returned to the American Le Mans Series for their 4th year with the BMW M3. After winning their second 12 Hours of Sebring in a row, the team, lacking speed to the brand new Porsches and Corvettes, would win only one more race at Road America. Despite their deficit in pace, the team finished the season 2nd in the championship with driver Dirk Muller finished 4th, the highest of the BMW team drivers.\n\nFurther developing their relationship with BMW Motorsport, the Rahal Letterman Lanigan team campaigned two brand new Z4 GTE cars, replacing the BMW M3's. Despite being their first season with the car, the team claimed several GT poles, a 1–2 victory at Long Beach and a win at Lime Rock Park. The team finished the season 2nd in the Teams' and Manufacturers' Championships behind Corvette Racing.\n\nFor 2014, the team continued with its Z4 GTE cars but under the newly formed Tudor United SportsCar Championship (which became the WeatherTech SportsCar Championship starting with the 2016 season). The team would manage four second-place finishes at Daytona and Laguna Seca with the #55 car and Long Beach and Road America for the #56 car. Dirk Müller and teammate John Edwards would finish seventh in the GTLM Drivers' Championship with Bill Auberlen and teammate Andy Priaulx eighth.\n\nFor 2015, the team would make several changes to its lineup, this time with ALMS champion Lucas Luhr replacing Müller in the No. 24, and Auberlen being teamed with Dirk Werner in the No. 25. Both teams would take wins during the season, with Edwards/Luhr winning at Laguna Seca, and Auberlen/Werner taking two wins at Long Beach and Austin. Auberlen/Werner would finish second in points to Porsche factory driver Patrick Pilet for the drivers championship. The 24 team also finished 2nd in the teams championship to the Porsche 911 team and BMW finished 2nd to Porsche in manufacturer championship.\n\nFor 2016, the team switched to the new BMW M6 GTLM, and the No. 24 team was assigned the Number 100 in celebration of BMW's 100th anniversary. The 25 team finished 7th in the drivers championship and the 100 team in 9th, with neither team winning.\n\nIn 2017, the 100 team reverted to the #24, with Martin Tomczyk replacing Luhr as Edwards' teammate, and Alexander Sims as Auberlen's new partner in the 25. The teams returned to their winning ways, with the 25 team (Auberlen/Sims) winning the 6 Hours of the Glen, Petit Le Mans and the Canadian Tire Motorsports Park event and finishing 2nd in the drivers championship. The 24 team (Edwards/Tomczyk) won at Mazda Raceway Laguna Seca, but finished 7th in the championship. The four victories also elevated BMW to 2nd in the 2017 GTLM Manufacturers championship, losing to Chevrolet by just 6 points.\n\nIn November 2017, Auberlen was named a BMW Brand Ambassador, and thus stepped down as a full-time driver for 2018. He was replaced by Connor De Phillippi as Sims' full-time partner in the 25 team. Edwards also had a partner change at the 24 team, with Jesse Krohn replacing Tomczyk. RLL also updated to the new BMW M8 GTE. The 25 team (Sims/De Phillippi) won at VIR and Laguna Seca and finished 6th in the 2018 drivers championship, while the 24 team (Edwards/Krohn) finished the season 8th with no race victories.\n\nFor 2019, the 24 driver team will remain intact, but Tom Blomqvist was announced to replace Sims as De Phillippi's full-season partner in the 25 team. However, due to delays with his U.S. Visa, Blomqvist had to miss the 2019 24 Hours of Daytona. He was replaced at Daytona by Augusto Farfus, who, along with co-drivers De Phillippi, Colton Herta and Philipp Eng, won the race in the GTLM class.\n\nOn 28 November 2017, it was announced that the team was to be the first to confirm entry to the I-PACE eTROPHY. The team confirmed that they will run two cars in the series. Katherine Legge and Bryan Sellers are part of the current line-up.\n\n\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki> Season still in progress\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki> – Season still in progress.\n"}
{"id": "2007421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007421", "title": "Worldwide (Audio Adrenaline album)", "text": "Worldwide (Audio Adrenaline album)\n\nWorldwide is the seventh full-length album released by Audio Adrenaline in 2003.\n\nThe album won 2004 Grammy Award for Best Rock Gospel Album.\n\nThe album was well received by critics. Steve Losey, of AllMusic, gave the album 4 stars out of 5 while praising both Mark Stuart's vocals and Tyler Burkum's playing. John DiBiase, of Jesus Freak Hideout, gave the album 3.5 stars out of 5, writing that the album \"offers some of the most memorable moments for the band\". Despite criticizing the track \"Start a Fire\" for contrasting too much with the rest of the album, DiBiase closes his review by saying \"\"Worldwide\" is a great album to start off a promising year for releases in CCM and will easily be one of the best projects of 2003\".\n\nThe album peaked at No. 116 on \"Billboard\" 200.\n\nTwo live music videos were released for the songs \"Church Punks\" and \"Leaving Ninety-Nine\".\n\nNote\n\n"}
{"id": "2007424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007424", "title": "Negative Creep", "text": "Negative Creep\n\n\"Negative Creep\" is a song by the American rock band Nirvana, written by vocalist and guitarist, Kurt Cobain. It is the seventh song on their debut album \"Bleach\", released in June 1989.\n\nWritten by Cobain in 1988, \"Negative Creep\" was recorded for \"Bleach\" by Jack Endino at Reciprocal Recording in December 1988 and January 1989. It is the only recording on the album that ends with an extended fade-out, giving it a 1960s pop aesthetic. \n\n\"Negative Creep\" was debuted live on February 25, 1989 at the Husky Union Building at the University of Washington in Seattle, Washington. The song remained a set list regular for the next four years, until its final live performance on April 9, 1993 at the Cow Palace in San Francisco, California. It was jammed on briefly during Nirvana's \"MTV Unplugged\" appearance in November 1993, after being requested by an audience member, but both Cobain and bassist Krist Novoselic said that they no longer knew how to play it.\n\n\"Negative Creep\" has been described as one of the \"Sub Popiest\" songs the band ever recorded, and \"a text book example of Seattle's true grunge sound\".\n\nIn his 1993 Nirvana biography \"\", Michael Azerrad described \"Negative Creep\" as \"a first-person narrative from an antisocial person,\" with that person being Cobain himself. James Jackson Toth of \"Stereogum\" called it a \"chilling ode to social awkwardness\" during which \"Cobain, sounding like a cross between Lemmy and a gargoyle, acknowledges his position as a shadowy outsider–even revels in it.\"\n\nSteve Fisk, who produced Nirvana's \"Blew\" EP in 1989, offered an alternate theory of the song's meaning, saying that \"I got told it was about the guy who lived across the street from the duplex and would come over while Kurt was gone to try to smoke [Cobain's then-girlfriend] Tracy [Marander] out.\"\n\nThe song received some criticism from members of the Seattle music scene in the late 1980s because of the lyric, \"Daddy's little girl ain't a girl no more,\" which closely resembled the lyrics to the 1988 song, \"Sweet Young Thing Ain't Sweet No More,\" by Nirvana's Sub Pop label mates, Mudhoney. According to Azerrad, Cobain claimed the similarity was an example of \"subconscious theft.\"\n\nIn 2015, \"Rolling Stone\" placed \"Negative Creep\" at number 15 on their ranking of 102 Nirvana songs.\n\nSeveral critics have noted the intensity of Cobain's vocals on the studio recording, with Mark Richardson of \"Pitchfork\" writing, \"Cobain's voice through the second verse terrifies me. There is no concern for his physical well being or even his future as a vocalist in a rock band. He sings as intensely as he can possibly sing. Sometimes, when I'm listening loud, I think my headphones might be breaking up from the volume only to realize that the membrane being excited to the point of distortion is actually Cobain's larynx.\"\n\n\"Negative Creep\" appeared in the 1996 grunge documentary, \"Hype!\", and was included in the film's soundtrack. It also appeared in the bonus CD included with the 1995 book \"Screaming Life: A Chronicle of the Seattle Music Scene\", which collected the photographs of acclaimed music photographer, Charles Peterson.\n"}
{"id": "2007425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007425", "title": "Rough Guides", "text": "Rough Guides\n\nRough Guides Ltd is a British travel guidebook and reference publisher, which has been owned by APA Publications since November 2017. In addition to publishing guidebooks, the company also provides a tailor-made trips service based on customers’ individual criteria.\n\nThe Rough Guides travel titles cover more than 200 destinations beginning with the 1982 \"Rough Guide to Greece\", a book conceived by Mark Ellingham, who was dissatisfied with the polarisation of existing guidebooks between cost-obsessed student guides and \"heavyweight cultural tomes\".\n\nInitially aimed at low-budget backpackers, the guidebooks have incorporated more expensive recommendations since the early 1990s, and are now marketed to travellers on all budgets. Since the late 1990s the books have contained colour printing. Much of the books' travel content is also available online.\n\nPenguin became responsible for sales and distribution in 1992, acquiring a majority stake in 1996 and buying Rough Guides outright in 2002.\n\nIn November 2007, after the company had celebrated \"25 Rough Years\" with a celebratory series of books, Ellingham left Rough Guides to set up a new green and ethical imprint, GreenProfile, at Profile Books. Rough Guides was run from 2003 until later in the decade by co-founder Martin Dunford (travel) and Andrew Lockett (reference), under the aegis of Penguin before their merger with Random House. \n\nIn 2017, Rough Guides was sold to APA Publications, parent of Insight Guides. It is now based at APA's offices in Mill Street, Bermondsey, southeast London.\n\nThe slogan of Rough Guides is \"Make the Most of Your Time on Earth\".\n\nMost of the series' early titles were written or edited by John Fisher, Jack Holland and Martin Dunford, who along with Mark Ellingham were co-founders and owners of Rough Guides. In 1995, they negotiated the sale of the series to Penguin Books, a process which was completed in 2002.\n\nIn 1994, the first non-travel Rough Guides books were published: \"The Rough Guide to World Music\" and \"The Rough Guide to Classical Music\". The success of these titles encouraged expansion of the Rough Guides format into other areas of publishing to cover a range of reference subjects, including music – covering genres such as world music, rock, hip-hop, jazz, and individual artists – and topics such as film, literature, popular science, ethical living, true crime, Shakespeare, pregnancy and birth, plus the Internet and related subjects such as eBay, blogging and iPods.\n\nIn November 2018, Rough Guides launched its tailormade trips service. The service offers individualized travel experiences chosen by the traveller, planned by a local expert, and booked by Rough Guides. In keeping with the brand ethos, the trips generally include some sort of adventurous component, dependent on what the traveller has asked for.\n\nRough Guides migrated to digital platforms with the launch of Rough Guides city guides for iOS, Android and Windows platforms, interactive e-books, and downloadable guide chapters. In January 2013 Rough Guides launched a new website. From 1 April 2019, Rough Guides started rolling out a scheme to offer a free downloadable e-book with every print guide purchased. \n\nRough Guides runs a podcast called \"The Rough Guide to Everywhere\", which was launched in 2017. The podcast explores topical travel issues and interviews inspirational travel personalities who have unique stories to tell.\n\nThe first episode went live on 30 January 2017 with the first two series being hosted by Greg Dickinson. On 3 May 2019, Rough Guides announced series 3 and introduced the new hosts, Rebecca Hallett and Neil McQuillian. The first episode of series 4 went live in May 2019 and is hosted by Aimee White. \n\nOn 9 April 2019, it was announced that \"The Rough Guide to Everywhere\" had been nominated for the Best Branded Podcast category at The British Podcast Awards.\n\nIn association with UK-based record label World Music Network, Rough Guides has issued over 350 recorded anthologies of the music of various nations and regions. In addition to their \"Rough Guide\" Series, the record label World Music Network has released 130 recordings in their other \"Introducing\", \"Riverboat\", and \"Think Global\" Series.\n\nIn the late 1980s, the Rough Guides brand was spun off into a series of travel shows on United Kingdom television channel BBC 2. Initially part of Janet Street Porter's DEF II strand, alongside Rapido and Jovanotti's Gimme 5, the show became established in BBC 2's early 1990s evening schedule.\n\nLater editions of the show, usually hosted by Sigue Sigue Sputnik associate Magenta Devine (with various male co-presenters through the show's run), were repeated on the Sky Travel channel until 2005.\n\nA new Rough Guide series of fifteen thirty-minute programmes started production in November 2007 and began airing on Channel 5 (the UK's fifth terrestrial channel), on 7 January 2008. A second 'Rough Guide to…' series was aired starting in November 2008.\n\nIn May 2007, Mark Ellingham said he had grave concerns about the growth of air travel because of its growing contribution to climate change.\nHe launched a joint awareness campaign with Tony Wheeler (Lonely Planet founder), and Rough Guides began including a \"health warning\" in each of its travel guides, urging readers to \"Fly less, stay longer\" wherever possible.\n"}
{"id": "2007427", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007427", "title": "María Juana", "text": "María Juana\n\nMaría Juana is a town in the province of Santa Fe, Argentina, located 125 km from the provincial capital (Santa Fe) and 210 km from the province's largest city, Rosario. It has a population of about 5,000.\n\nThe main economic activity in the area is the production of milk and derivative dairy products, but María Juana also produces and exports soy, wheat, honey, and industrial products.\n\nPopulated mainly by descendants from Italian immigrants, María Juana has two elementary schools and three high schools. It has had a cable television system (\"Cable-Hogar María Juana\") since the early 1990s; and multi-award-winning Radio María Juana FM 101.9, founded in 1978, one of the few alternative radio stations in Argentina that broadcasts worldwide through internet streaming.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2007428", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007428", "title": "GE B39-8", "text": "GE B39-8\n\nA GE B39-8 is a 4-axle diesel-electric locomotive built by GE Transportation Systems. It is part of the GE Dash 8 Series of freight locomotives. Following the production of the first three units for the Atchison, Topeka and Santa Fe Railway, GE made many mechanical and electrical improvements that were reflected in a redesigned carbody for the remainder of production; these later units are sometimes unofficially referred to as B39-8E. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2007431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007431", "title": "Mechanics (Aristotle)", "text": "Mechanics (Aristotle)\n\nMechanics (or \"Mechanica\" or \"Mechanical Problems\"; ) is a text traditionally attributed to Aristotle, though his authorship of it is disputed. Thomas Winter has suggested that the author was Archytas. However, Coxhead says that it is only possible to conclude that the author was one of the Peripatetics.\n\nDuring the Renaissance, an edition of this work was published by Francesco Maurolico.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2007455", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007455", "title": "Disciple (album)", "text": "Disciple (album)\n\nDisciple is the fifth album released by Christian rock group Disciple, on June 7, 2005. When the single \"The Wait is Over\" was released, it broke several records in Christian music, including the longest spot at No. 1 on the R&R Charts.\n\nA special edition was released on June 6, 2006 as a DualDisc containing four bonus songs and a making-of DVD. The covers between the two albums differ only in the background color but are otherwise identical.\n\n\nIn 2006, the album was nominated for a Dove Award for Rock Album of the Year at the 37th GMA Dove Awards. The song \"The Wait Is Over\" was also nominated for Rock Recorded Song of the Year.\n"}
{"id": "2007457", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007457", "title": "Bloomingdale (Washington, D.C.)", "text": "Bloomingdale (Washington, D.C.)\n\nBloomingdale is a neighborhood in the Northwest quadrant of Washington, D.C., less than two miles (3 km) north of the United States Capitol building. It is a primarily residential neighborhood, with a small commercial center near the intersection of Rhode Island Avenue and First Street NW featuring bars, restaurants, and food markets.\n\nMost of Bloomingdale's houses are Victorian-style rowhouses built around 1900 as single-family homes. Today, they remain primarily single-family residences, with some recently converted to two-unit condominiums.\n\nBloomingdale is bounded to the north by Channing Street NW, to the east by North Capitol Street, to the south by Florida Avenue NW, and to the west by Second Street NW.\n\nThe neighborhoods bordering Bloomingdale are LeDroit Park to the west, Shaw to the southwest, Truxton Circle to the south, Eckington to the east, and Stronghold to the northeast. To the north, sit the McMillan Sand Filtration Site and the McMillan Reservoir.\n\nThe neighborhood is a low-lying area, at the foot of hills that extend to the north and east. Its topography is also shaped by the now-buried Tiber Creek, one branch of which generally followed what is now Flagler Place NW.\n\nBecause of its low-lying topography, flooding periodically occurred in parts of the neighborhood during particularly strong rainstorms. In summer 2012, the stormwater drainage system was overwhelmed multiple times by particularly strong storms, flooding vehicles near the topographic basin at T Street NW and Rhode Island Avenue NW and causing sewer backflow to enter some basements, many of which were rental apartments. Since then, DC Water has undertaken a large-scale tunneling project designed to divert and contain stormwater.\n\nBloomingdale is in the southwestern part of Ward 5, currently represented on the City Council by Councilmember Kenyan McDuffie. Bloomingdale is a part of Advisory Neighborhood Commission 5E, currently represented by commissioners Teri Janine Quinn, Bertha Holliday, Horacio Sierra, and Dianne Barnes.\n\nThe present-day neighborhood of Bloomingdale originated from several large estates. Located just outside the original boundary of the City of Washington as designed by Pierre L’Enfant in 1792 and in the former County of Washington, the neighborhood known today as Bloomingdale began to develop its residential character in the late 1880s, shortly after the County of Washington was absorbed by the City of Washington and just over a century after L'Enfant's plan was developed.\n\nThe lands that comprise Bloomingdale first began as large estates and orchards. Boundary Street, today Florida Avenue, was the dividing line between paved, planned streets (to the south), laid out in the original L'Enfant Plan, and rural country (to the north of Boundary), where landowners maintained orchards, large country estates and, later, a mixture of commercial properties.\n\nIn 1823, George Beale and his wife Emily Truxton Beale bought a parcel of land north of the Capitol, along the City boundary, for $600.00 from William Bradley. They named it the \"Bloomingdale Estate,\" and it grew to .\n\nAs late as the 1870s, the land where Bloomingdale now sits was largely a collection of undeveloped private estates and farming properties, most prominently those of the Beales and of the Moores.\n\nFollowing Emily Truxton Beale's death in 1885, her heirs began to sell large tracts of the estate to developers. The old Bloomingdale estate rapidly changed into the modern neighborhood configuration as developers and land speculators transformed the undeveloped lands for denser residential development, between the established residential LeDroit Park and Eckington neighborhoods. By 1887, city planners had proposed extending the city's paved street grid into Bloomingdale.\nIn 1891, the Moore farm, north and west of the former Beale estate and representing some of the last undeveloped property in the area, was sold to private developers. It was incorporated into the already-underway Bloomingdale neighborhood.\n\nBy 1892, the reconfiguration of Bloomingdale was underway, as large estates were consolidated and reconfigured into the predecessor to the modern neighborhood, with further development by 1894. During this time, roads corresponding to the grid system of Washington's streets were improved, curbed, and paved. Streams and creeks were buried or re-directed—most notably the Tiber Creek, many of which had been buried south of Bloomingdale in the original City of Washington. One section of the Tiber Creek in Bloomingdale ran along what is now Flagler Place.\n\nConstruction on some of the earliest homes was completed between 1892 and 1900. In the early 1900s, the remainder of the surrounding blocks had been built in a speculative nature by such developers as Harry Wardman, Francis Blundon, and S. H. Meyers in the following decade. The neighborhood website contains a list of Bloomingdale's Wardman built homes. Many of Wardman's first homes incorporate elements of Richardson Romanesque architecture (a sub-category of Victorian). This can be seen in the ornate floral and vine-like stone carving around doors and windows of many Bloomingdale homes. His later homes, like those on Adams and Bryant Streets, are in an architectural style for which he is most prominently known, brick homes that incorporate a deeper setback from the street and large covered front porch. Blundon built several homes along 1st Street including 100 W Street, NW, which he occupied with his family.\n\nDevelopment continued and, in 1904, the neighborhood's first school, the Nathaniel Parker Gage School, was built on the 2000 block of 2nd Street. (The school has been converted to private condominiums.) By 1909, the old estates had been sold and divided, the Tiber Creek had been buried, and the neighborhood street layout had been fully developed into its present form.\n\nMany homes in the northern section of Bloomingdale retain carriage houses in the block interiors. Some have been converted to private residences.\n\nLike many D.C. neighborhoods since the early 2000s, Bloomingdale has undergone substantial gentrification, with the neighborhood's once-numerous vacant properties being repurposed, sharp rises in property values, and rapidly shifting demographics. The population is nearly evenly split between White residents, many of whom have moved to the neighborhood since the 2000s, and African American residents, who have historically constituted a majority in the community.\n\nDuring this period of rapid change, new businesses have opened in the neighborhood, primarily restaurants, bars, and food markets. These include Windows Market, Big Bear Cafe, Yoga District, El Camino, Bacio Pizzeria, FieldToCity, Rustik Tavern, Boundary Stone, Aroi Thai Sushi Bar, Grassroots Gourmet, Red Hen, Showtime Lounge, and Crisp Kitchen & Bar. Every summer, the Bloomingdale Farmers' Market operates on Sundays on R St between Florida Ave and 1st Street, N.W.\n\nOn May 22, 2010, the city officially dedicated a new street, Bloomingdale Court, N.W., the name given by local resident and novelist Frederick Louis Richardson for the alley system between the 100 block of U and V Streets, N.W., and the 2000 block of 1st Street and Flagler Place, N.W.\n\nOn July 27, 2018, the D.C. Historic Preservation Review Board voted to designate Bloomingdale a historic district. It was listed on the National Register of Historic Places on November 26 of the same year.\n\nThe neighborhood has several active neighborhood groups and associations including the Bloomingdale Civic Association.\n\nAccording to the Census Bureau's 2016 American Community Survey, the population of Bloomingdale's two census tracts was estimated to be about 43% African American, about 42% non-Hispanic White, about 7% Hispanic, and about 3% Asian.\n\nBloomingdale has its own community-managed and community-owned greenspace, Crispus Attucks Park. The acre-and-a-quarter park, in the court bounded by First, U, V, and North Capitol streets NW, was previously the site of a warehouse built in 1910 and used as a telephone-switching station and cable yard for the Chesapeake & Potomac Telephone Company.\n\nChesapeake & Potomac Telephone Company stopped using the property in 1974 and tried to sell it, but no one wanted to buy it, largely because the only access was by way of an alley off of V Street NW. In 1976, a neighborhood organization, V Street Block Club, approached the Chesapeake & Potomac Telephone Company to donate the property. The neighborhood organization asked the Chesapeake & Potomac Telephone Company to use the warehouse to teach children to play music in the warehouse. Chesapeake & Potomac Telephone Company said it would prefer to donate the property to the government of the District of Columbia, which would then donate the property to the neighborhood organization. The District government declined the offer, because it did not have the funds to renovate the building, and nothing happened for a few months. In December 1976, Hyman Construction Company learned about the issue, and it agreed to renovate the warehouse, Chesapeake & Potomac Telephone Company agreed to donate the land and the warehouse to a newly incorporated neighborhood organization, then called NUV-1, an acronym for each street that surrounds the property.\n\nHyman Construction Company paid its employees to renovate the warehouse, and employees of a few other construction companies donated their time as well. National Capital United Presbytery donated $7,500, and architect Ward Bucher donated his time to create the plans. Renovation began in July 1977, and the building officially opened as a neighborhood arts center on April 2, 1978.\n\nThe neighborhood arts center offered photography, martial arts, and bicycle-repair classes, lectures, musical events, dances, and day-care. In 1987, the District government reduced funding through the Recreation Department, and the six of the center's eight staff members were let go, significantly reducing the activities at the center.\n\nThe neighborhood organization became the Crispus Attucks Development Corporation, a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization. \nThe park is named after Crispus Attucks, an African American who was killed in the Boston Massacre and is often regarded as the first person killed in the American Revolution. Crispus Attucks Park is privately owned and open to the public. It is maintained through charitable donations and volunteer labor coordinated by the Crispus Attucks Development Corporation.\n\n\nAlthough the series \"House of Cards\" is filmed in Baltimore, its opening credits sequence features several prominent shots of the Bloomingdale neighborhood along North Capitol Street, between R Street and T Street.\n\n"}
{"id": "2007464", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007464", "title": "Orlando Parga", "text": "Orlando Parga\n\nOrlando Parga Figueroa (born February 6, 1939 in Mayagüez, Puerto Rico) is a Puerto Rican politician and former member of the Senate of Puerto Rico. He served as President pro tempore of the Senate from 2005 to 2009.\n\nOrlando Parga Figueroa was born on February 6, 1939 in Mayagüez, Puerto Rico. His father, Orlando Parga Tossas, was a leader of the Partido Estadista Republicano and a right-hand man to its leader, Miguel A. García Méndez.\n\nParga studied in various schools in Toa Baja, Bayamón, and San Juan. He continued his college studies at the University of Puerto Rico, and then at the State University of New York (SUNY) receiving a Bachelor's degree in Public Administration.\n\nParga worked for several years for the weekly newspaper \"La Opinión\". He worked as City Editor and Editor of \"La Opinión\" from 1962 to 1968, and then as Director from 1973 to 1975. He has also written columns for other newspapers like \"El Mundo\", \"La Semana\", and \"El Nuevo Día\".\n\nParga began his political career when he was elected state president of the Republican Youth in 1957, a post to which he was reelected in 1960 and 1964. In 1961, Parga became the first Puerto Rican to be named as part of the United States Republican Youth National Committee. During this time, he also served Press Aide to Senator Miguel A. García Méndez. In 1968, Parga ran unsuccessfully for an at-large seat in the Puerto Rico House of Representatives under the Republican Party, which would disappear following that year's elections. He then worked as Director of Public Relations at the Automobile Accidents Compensation Administration (ACAA) from 1969 to 1973.\n\nFrom 1975 to 1976, Parga served as Press Aide to Carlos Romero Barceló, who was Mayor of San Juan at the time. He also served as Communications Advisor to another Mayor of San Juan, Baltasar Corrada del Río, from 1985 to 1988. Parga also served as a consultant to Mayors of Guaynabo Alejandro Cruz and Héctor O'Neill. From 1993 to 1994 he also served as Director of the Press, Communications, and Public Relations Office of the Senate of Puerto Rico.\n\nHe ran unsuccessfully for Senator at-large in the 1991 and 1995 PNP primaries. Parga was finally elected to the post in a special election held in April 11, 1999 to fill the vacancy left by former Senate President Roberto Rexach Benitez' resignation. At the 2000 general elections, he was reelected to his seat and chosen as Senate Minority Whip.\n\nParga was re-elected at the 2004 elections. However, when the defeated 2004 PNP gubernatorial candidate, Pedro Rosselló, gained a seat in the Senate and tried to oust President Kenneth McClintock, Parga was one of the six Senators that supported the latter and refused to support Rosselló. For their loyalty, they became known as \"Los Auténticos\", which in turn, ignited a series of schemes to coerce them into supporting Rosselló.\n\nIn November 2005, it was revealed that the Puerto Rico Capitol's surveillance camera system was allegedly misused to blackmail fellow Senator Carlos Díaz, one of the so-called \"Auténticos\". McClintock appointed Parga to chair the tripartisan Blue Ribbon Committee looking into the matter. His refusal to cover-up sworn statements suggesting administrative irregularities in the administration of the House of Representatives triggered the New Progressive Party directorate to recommend his expulsion, along with Senate President Kenneth McClintock. The party recommended the expulsion of the six Senators in March 2006. According to McClintock, this recommendation was rejected by a General Assembly in August 20, 2006.\n\nWithin the Senate, he presided the Committee on Consumer Affairs and Government Reports. As a result of the May 2005 split within the majority delegation, he assumed the chairmanship of the Federal, Industrial and Economic Affairs Committee of the Senate and of the Cordova and Fernos Congressional Internship Joint Committee. After Senator Héctor Martínez resigned the chairmanship of the Senate's Public Safety Committee, Parga was appointed its acting chair by the Senate President.\n\nOn July 5, 2007, Parga announced that, rather than file for reelection under the PNP banner, he would aspire to become the first independent candidate to win an election to the Senate and put all his Senate leadership positions at McClintock's disposal. The Senate President immediately reiterated his trust in him, although he would no longer appear in the slate of PNP candidates. In November 2008 he was not reelected while running as an independent.\n\nActually, as a political analyst, Parga has not held his punches when commenting on Puerto Rico's status and politics issues. In 2010, Parga said in an interview that \"being a legislator in this island is worth nothing. When I was young, I would stand in the Senate gallery and dream about being a Senator. It used to be something prestigious.\"\n\nParga is a political analyst on NotiUno 630 a local radio network and served as a government consultant and the House of Representatives of Puerto Rico[Legislative Services of Puerto Rico], 2009-2013.\n\nParga is married to Teresita Aponte Vázquez. He has three children, Waldo, Ana Ivette, and Carlos Manuel from a previous marriage. Parga and Aponte reside in Caguas.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2007466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007466", "title": "Plumb (singer)", "text": "Plumb (singer)\n\nTiffany Arbuckle Lee, better known by her stage name Plumb, is a Christian songwriter, recording artist, performer and author. Plumb has sold more than 500,000 albums and over two million singles worldwide, co-penned songs for numerous other artists, including Michelle Branch, Mandisa, Mandy Moore, Jaci Velasquez, and Natalie Grant, and had music placed in many films and television shows. Originally signed as a Christian Contemporary Music (CCM) recording artist in 1997, Plumb is now known as well as or better in alternative rock, electronic dance music, and for the use of her music in film and television than she is in the CCM market.\n\nPlumb was born in Indianapolis but grew up in Atlanta, singing in church and school. She moved to Nashville one week before her 21st birthday, where she now resides, and worked as a background singer for a number of artists, including Bill Gaither and Amy Grant. Following Silvertone Records affiliate Essential Records mainstream alternative radio success with its debut artist Jars of Clay in 1995, the label signed Plumb as its second artist. When she was urged to write, Plumb turned to Matt Bronlewee—an original member of Jars of Clay who happened to be her next-door neighbor—and the two hit it off. The debut album, \"Plumb\", was released in 1997, with stage name Plumb coming from the Suzanne Vega song \"My Favorite Plum\". Plumb has said subsequently that the addition of the letter \"B\" to the end was the idea of her producer Matt Bronleewe and, in her mind, also represents Bronleewe's important contribution to her sound.\n\nIn 1999, Plumb released a second studio album titled \"Candycoatedwaterdrops\", which won the 2000 Gospel Music Association Dove Award for \"Modern Rock Album of the Year\". Three tracks from it were later covered by other artists; \"Stranded\" and \"Here With Me\" by Jennifer Paige and, in 2001, \"Damaged\" by Plummet. Though the album won the DOVE Award for Best Modern Rock Album in 2000, and saw strong radio success with the single \"God-Shaped Hole\", the subject matter and approach of much of Plumb's music was often considered too dark and taboo for the mainstream Christian marketplace. Plumb's tendency to write songs about deeply personal issues, such as international hit \"Cut\" which addressed cutting, and \"Damaged\" which addressed a girl coping with being molested as a child, led to more enthusiastic reception by fans of alternative and dance music. Fueling the break from CCM, \"Cut\" was also used prominently during a pivotal scene in the storyline of \"The Vampire Diaries\" in the 10th episode of season 1, \"The Turning Point\".\n\nPlumb considered leaving the music industry after the 2000 album, but changed her mind after receiving a note from a fan a few hours before what she thought to be her final concert. The letter was about her song \"Damaged\" about a girl coping with being molested as a child. The note said \"Whatever you do, I just want you to never forget that you have changed someone's life,\" which inspired Plumb to remain in the music industry. She signed to Curb Records in 2003, releasing the album \"Beautiful Lumps of Coal\" on March 25, 2003. The lead single, \"Real\", peaked at No. 41 in the UK Singles Chart. Her next album, titled Chaotic Resolve, entered the \"Billboard\" 200 album chart at No. 177 on March 9, 2006. \"Better\" reached No. 1 on the U.S. Christian airplay chart. The Bronleewe & Bose remix of her follow-up, \"Cut\", hit No. 1 on SiriusXM's dance hits channel BPM, and No. 5 on \"Billboard\"'s Dance Charts Hot Dance Club Songs.\n\nShortly after the birth of her second child, Plumb recorded her 5th album, titled \"Blink\", as collection of lullaby inspired songs. It was released on October 9, 2007, immediately becoming one of her best selling and most enduring albums to date. Lead single \"In My Arms\", was used in conjunction with key plot narratives for both Vampire Diaries and One Tree Hill, and became Plumb's biggest international hit to date, selling close to half a million singles in both the United States and Russia. \"In My Arms\" received remixes by Kaskade, Scotty K, Bronleewe & Bose, Gomi, and Bimbo Jones, with the latter reaching the No. 3 spot on the \"Billboard\" Dance Charts.\n\nOn May 19, 2009, Curb Records announced that it would release a career spanning greatest hits album titled Beautiful History, which was released later in the year and included several new songs. The first single from Beautiful History, \"Hang On\", reached No. 1 on US \"Billboard\" Hot Dance Club Play in 2009 and reached the top spot on \"Billboard\"'s Hot Dance Airplay chart in 2010.\n\nPlumb returned to the studio in 2010 with longtime producer and co-writer Matt Bronleewe to begin work on what would become her 6th studio album, while also changing management and signing with alternative boutique firm Street Talk Media. The debut single from the project, \"Drifting\", a co-penned duet with longtime friend Dan Haseltine (of Jars of Clay), spread quickly across Christian Rock radio. The second single, \"Need You Now (How Many Times)\", went to CCM radio in early 2012 and has become Plumb's most successful single to date in that market, rising to number to No. 1 on multiple radio and iTunes charts in both the United States and Canada by year's end. The single has remained in regular rotation nationwide for well over a year, selling close to 300,000 singles on iTunes to date, and is BDS certified at over 100,000 radio spins. The album \"Need You Now\" was released worldwide in February 2013, charting at a career-best No. 56 on the \"Billboard\" 200 chart and No. 2 on Christian album charts. The album received five Dove Award nominations including Song of the Year and Contemporary/Pop Album of the Year. With her children now all at least grade school age, and with the massive success of Need You Now, 2012 and 2013 saw the most aggressive touring of her entire career, playing major festivals throughout 2012 and 2013, embarking on her first and largely sold-out headlining tour in the fall of 2013, and joining the massive Winterjam arena tour for November 2013-14.\n\nPlumb released her seventh studio album, \"Exhale\", on May 4, 2015.\n\nPlumb left Curb Records in early 2017 to form her own label, Plumb Music, and released her first single \"God Help Me\" in July 2017. The song was one of six tracks included on the EP \"God Help Me\" in late 2017. She followed it up with the album \"Beautifully Broken\" in June 2018 on Centricity Music.\n\nFollowing the No. 1 chart successes of \"In My Arms\", \"Hang On\", and \"Cut\", Plumb has been increasingly sought-after in the dance and electronic world. In 2011, she collaborated with trance DJ Paul Van Dyk on \"I Don't Deserve You\", playing several shows with Van Dyk, and filming a music video together in middle Tennessee. Plumb's original version and recording of the song would be included on her sixth studio album, \"Need You Now\", and featured in episode 5x02 of \"Vampire Diaries\".\n\nPlumb is married and has three children with her husband, Jeremy Lee.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2007473", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007473", "title": "Marineland of Canada", "text": "Marineland of Canada\n\nMarineland (official name Marineland of Canada Inc.), is a themed zoo and amusement park in Niagara Falls, Ontario, Canada. The park has performing marine animal shows, sea mammal and land animal exhibits, and amusement rides. It keeps dolphins, walruses, sea lions, an orca, and beluga whales. The park also keeps bears, deer and other land animals. It was founded and operated by John Holer, a controversial Slovenian immigrant, from 1961 until his death in 2018. It is privately owned and operated by his family.\n\nThe park's keeping of sea mammals is controversial, and the park is involved in several lawsuits related to the practice. The keeping of the sea mammals is opposed by animal rights activists and Marineland has been the site of animal rights demonstrations.\n\nMarineland of Canada keeps about 4,000 land and marine animals. Marineland operates 16 rides ranging from rides for children, to thrill rides for adults. The marine animals perform several times daily at King Waldorf Stadium. The park does not release annual attendance figures. Published amounts range from 250,000 to 500,000 annually.\n\nMarineland is a former member of Canada's Accredited Zoos and Aquariums (CAZA). The company \"voluntarily and temporarily\" withdrew from CAZA in May 2017, stating it was expanding the area for animals and \"will be continuing to work with CAZA to ensure that the expansion is successfully harmonized with CAZA principles\".\n\nMarineland keeps beluga whales, bottlenose dolphins, grey seals, harbour seals, sea lions, a walrus (Smooshi) and one orca ('killer whale'). The belugas are kept in Arctic Cove, Friendship Cove and King Waldorf Stadium. As of August 2017, Marineland had 53 belugas.\n\nKiska is the only orca at Marineland. A 2012 report stated that Marineland was then looking for a companion for their orca. Since then, it appears that Kiska will be the last orca that the park will own. On May 28, 2015, the Legislative Assembly of Ontario passed the \"Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Amendment Act\". The act prohibits the possession or breeding of orcas in Ontario while allowing Marineland to keep its orca. Marineland has stated its opposition to moving Kiska. A lawyer acting for the park in 2015 made the following comment: \"She's very elderly, so it's the equivalent of taking someone who is 80 years old or 90 years old in an old folks' home and moving them into an apartment in the Village in New York ... and it is entirely reasonable, achievable and appropriate to provide for her, on loan from another facility, an age-appropriate companion\" but added that the 2015 Ontario Act does not allow for that.\n\n\nMarineland has many animals throughout the park that are not cetaceans or pinnipeds. Marineland has carried over these animals from its days as a 'game farm'.\n\n\nMarineland has a collection of different rides, including a pair of roller coasters and a large launched free fall.\nAnother ride, the \"Topple Tower\", was a HUSS Topple Tower. It opened in 2007 but closed in 2011 for required repairs. It never re-opened.\n\nThe park was founded by John Holer, a Slovenian immigrant who had worked in circuses in Europe. Holer and a partner bought a portion of the Harry Oakes estate near the falls. The park opened in 1961 as \"Marine Wonderland and Animal Farm\". Holer welded two large steel tanks together and brought in three sea lions and charged one quarter for admission and another to feed the animals. The attraction also featured an underwater show featuring two female swimmers.\n\nIn 1963, a trained sea lion \"Jeff\" escaped from Marine Wonderland and made it to the Niagara River and went over the falls. Holer offered a reward and organized a helicopter search. The seal was recaptured by Holer a few days later in Queenston, where it was found sunning itself with teenager Tommy Haines, who was given the reward.\n\nIn 1964, Holer added two dolphins, along with a few other animals and the attraction became known as \"Marineland And Game Farm\". By 1966, a 2,000-seat \"aquatheatre\" was completed along with a \"grotto\" of aquariums and shops. The grotto in the new Aquarium Dome contained eight tanks used to display fresh-water fish. The park became a popular family attraction and recorded an annual attendance of 250,000 for the 1967 season. In 1968, the park added alligators. Neighbouring attraction \"Niagara Falls Indian Village\" closed down after the 1968 season and Marineland purchased their property.\n\nIn 1971, Marineland added orcas. \"Kandu\" became the park's major attraction. In 1973, the aquarium purchased \"Kandy\", a female orca captured off Vancouver Island in 1973 to mate with Kandu, but she died later that year. Kandu lived until 1979 and was replaced by \"Nootka\", captured and brought to the park in 1981. Nootka lived until 2008. By 1975, the park kept over 1,000 animals and claimed to be Niagara Falls' \"most popular attraction after the falls.\"\n\nIn 1975, Marineland became involved in a controversy over another orca captured off Vancouver Island. The capture of 'Kanduke' by the Sealand of the Pacific aquarium of Victoria, British Columbia for purchase by Marineland was blocked by the Government of British Columbia, at the instigation of Greenpeace activists. Claimed to be property by the BC government and resources by the Government of Canada, the orca eventually was transported to Marineland after it was determined that orcas were a resource under the control of the Canadian government. The incident led to the ending of the capture of orcas in British Columbia waters.\n\nIn 1976, Marineland announced a expansion on 1,000 adjacent acres, to include a 400-acre \"safari park\" and amusement centre. Construction began on a new 15,000 seat stadium and pool for killer whales. Marineland purchased two locomotives for a steam train railroad. When plans for Canada's Wonderland were announced, Holer decided to further increase the park's expansion plans, adding a Gothic castle, canals and the world's largest roller coaster, for a total cost of . The \"Dragon Mountain\" roller coaster opened in 1983 along with other rides. At a cost of , the roller coaster opened without reproductions of the American and Horseshoe falls, postponed to the future. In 1984, Holer announced the postponement of part of the expansion, citing an 86% increase in municipal property taxes and threatened to move the facility across the river to the United States.\n\nIn 1982, Marineland purchased Keiko, a killer whale from an aquarium in Hafnarfjörður, Iceland. Keiko started performing for the public and developed skin lesions indicative of poor health. He was then sold for $350,000 to Reino Aventura (now named Six Flags México), an amusement park in Mexico City, in 1985. Keiko was the star of the movie \"Free Willy\" in 1993. After a time at the Oregon Coast Aquarium, (early 1996 to late 1998) Keiko was returned to a sea pen in Iceland in and was released to the ocean in July 2002. He swam to Norway, eventually settling in the Taknes fjord in November 2002, where he was not catching fish and had little contact with wild Orcas; until his death, Keiko was fed daily by the Keiko Project group. Keiko died of pneumonia in December 2003.\n\nIn 1986, an unidentified trainer was taken to the hospital after he fell off the park's male killer whale, Kandu 7 and was dragged by his leg around the pool during a trick.\n\nIn 2001, Marineland added walruses to the marine mammals it kept. The first walrus was \"Sonja\", from the Moscow Zoo. It was joined by \"Zeus\" and \"Apollo\" two months later and \"Pandora\", \"Buttercup\" and \"Buddy\" in 2002. Marineland added \"Smooshi\" and \"Azul\" in 2004. Sonja died in 2017, Zeus died in 2018.\n\nIn 2003, Marineland opened the \"Arctic Cove\" beluga whale exhibit. Beluga whales were held in Friendship Cove from May 30, 1999, until the opening of Arctic Cove in late 2003. Belugas returned to Friendship Cove in December 2008 following the importation of eight individuals and has held belugas since. Upon the recent 2014 opening season, several belugas were switched between Arctic Cove and Friendship Cove. In 2004, Marineland opened the \"Sky Screamer\" triple tower ride.\n\nIn 2004, Marineland bought the Green Oaks Mobile Home Park across the street from the park with plans to relocate maintenance buildings to the site. In 2009, Marineland evicted 47 families that were tenants at the park. The tenants appealed to the Ontario Landlord and Tenant Board, lost their case and were ordered off the property by March 2010. One tenant committed suicide while others continued to fight Marineland but had to leave in 2011. Holer was ordered to pay $11,000 each to several tenants for harassment.\n\nHoler died on June 23, 2018, aged 82. He was praised as an \"immigrant success story\" by Senator Don Plett (Manitoba). Holer had been seriously ill for five months and died at his home on Chippewa Parkway. Holer was survived by his wife Marie and son Peter. Another son, John Mark Jr., died in 2013. \n\nThe Mayor of Niagara Falls, Jim Diodati, sees Marineland at a \"crossroads\" with three options: to continue the current business model, to sell its 1,000 acres of land to real estate developers or to become an amusement park without animals. Diodati favours the latter option. Marineland's lawyer Andrew Burns said that there would be no immediate changes to the business. At the time of his death, Holer was working on a new aviary attraction for Marineland. According to testimony before a Senate of Canada committee in May 2017, the expansion was described as being one of the largest expansions Marineland has ever made. Holer himself described the overall park as only \"half-developed.\"\n\nOn opening day in May 2019, two deer died in a stampede in the deer enclosure, which was reopened for the 2019 season. According to Marineland, a father and son caused the stampede, laughed at staff, and refused to leave the enclosure, then slipped away while staff quieted the animals. Marineland closed the deer enclosure afterwards until modifications are implemented to prevent a future stampede. On May 22, it was announced that the 18-year-old walrus \"Apollo\" had died of heart failure. It was the fourth walrus to die at Marineland within two years, after \"Zeus\", \"Buttercup\" and \"Sonja\" and left Marineland with a single walrus, \"Smooshi\". In June, Marineland opened its new \"Polar Splash\" splash park attraction at a cost of million.\n\nIn June 2019, Marineland signed a ten-year partnership agreement with the Mystic Aquarium's Sea Research Foundation (a subsidiary of Ocean Wise Inc.) in research of belugas. In September 2019, it was announced that Marineland had sold two beluga whales to Oceanographic, a Spanish facility owned by Ocean Wise Inc. with the permission of the Canadian government.\n\nSince 2012, the park has been the subject of several allegations of poor conditions for its animals by former employees and animal activists have protested outside its gates on several occasions. The park has been inspected by the Ontario Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (OSPCA) and Canada's Accredited Zoos and Aquariums (CAZA), many times over the years, some leading to orders issued by the OSPCA. \n\nIn November 2016 and January 2017, the OSPCA received a complaint from a former employee through the animal rights organization Last Chance for Animals. The OSPCA filed some charges against the park in late 2016 and early 2017, but all of the charges were withdrawn by government prosecutors later that year. Marineland has repeatedly stated publicly that the allegations are the work of disgruntled former employees, who have teamed up with activists wholly opposed to the keeping of animals in captivity and organizations which \"seem to financially benefit from any resulting downturn in public opinion towards park operations\". Marineland has further maintained that they make every effort to ensure the animals in their care are well provided for. The park employs a number of people who care for the animals day-to-day, as well as an experienced and qualified veterinary staff. Although it is a private facility, Marineland must comply with federal and provincial regulations, as well as comply with several animal welfare enforcement agencies, including regular and \"snap\" inspections. Marineland has filed nine lawsuits against activists, former employees and the media, and a further lawsuit against the OSPCA for malicious prosecution and reputational damage.\n\nIn 2015, the Government of Ontario banned the practice of breeding and keeping orcas in captivity, while allowing the existing one to remain at Marineland. As a result of this law, Marineland's orca lives in captive social isolation, a situation which Marineland opposes. \n\nIn 2012, articles were published by the \"Toronto Star\" alleging animal mistreatment, resulting in negative publicity. An inspection by the OSPCA and CAZA, however, found \"no issues of concern\". The \"Star\" reported that the OSPCA issued orders to Marineland to improve the water conditions for animals at the park and address specific issues with other animals, and that Marineland complied.\n\nMarineland and its owner John Holer were involved in many controversies throughout the park's history. Animal rights activists have picketed regularly outside the park property for several years and continue to protest as of 2018.\n\nIn 1977, the U.S. Department of Fisheries seized six bottlenose dolphins that had been illegally caught by John Holer in the Gulf of Mexico.\n\nIn 1983, Niagara Falls mayor Wayne Thomson resigned amid controversy over a vacation given as a gift by a Toronto development firm and a land purchase made by his then-fiancé Bonnie Dickson. His fiancé bought some land in Niagara Falls from a seller who did not want it to be sold to Marineland. Seven months later, she sold the plot to Marineland. Holer stated she acted as trustee and was accompanied by Thomson.\n\nIn the 1980s, Greenpeace was the first activist group to raise concerns about keeping killer whales in captivity. It objected to the keeping in principle, although it stated that Marineland was one of the better facilities. The level of concern grew in the 1990s. In 1997, a protest was held outside the park by Ric O'Barry, the trainer of \"Flipper\" of the television series. Other organizations present at the protest included Friends of the Dolphins, Zoocheck Canada and Earth Island Institute. The protesters alleged that Marineland separated mother and child killer whales too quickly and four other whales were stored in unsuitable facilities.\n\nIn September 2011, SeaWorld won a court battle with Marineland over the fate of \"Ikaika\", a killer whale. Ikaika had been originally loaned to Marineland under the terms of a breeding loan agreement between the two organizations, but SeaWorld decided to terminate the agreement due to concerns about Ikaika's mental and physical well-being due to deteriorating conditions at the park. Marineland initially refused to return Ikaika, but was eventually ordered to by the Ontario Superior Court as well as pay $255,000 in compensation to SeaWorld for legal expenses.\n\nIn May 2012, Phil Demers, trainer of the walrus \"Smooshi,\" resigned from Marineland. He had been an employee of Marineland for 12 years and had been noted for his close relationship with Smooshi. Demers made public his concerns about Marineland and has been sued by Marineland. In Demers' version of accounts, Smooshi was moved from Marineland's barn to the Aquarium, where Demers said she deteriorated because of problems with the water. Smooshi was returned to the barn but problems returned. He asked for more walrus trainers, but his request was denied. By 2012, he had had responsibilities for hiring and training employees taken away, and he chose to resign. He continues to speak out about Marineland. According to Marineland, Demers was intending to star in a reality show as a \"walrus whisperer\" that was rejected by Marineland, had no management responsibilities and was not qualified to comment on marine mammal health. Marineland also alleges that Demers took drugs himself that were allocated for marine mammals. Marineland is taking legal action against Demers\n\nOn August 15, 2012, the \"Toronto Star\" published an article of Demers' account, alleging that many sea mammals at Marineland live in inhumane conditions and suffer from a variety of illnesses caused by problems with water quality and chronic understaffing. Holer denied the allegations in the report, which was largely based on interviews conducted with former Marineland employees. The Ontario Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals declined to press charges, but did order changes in park procedures that were then implemented by Marineland. The controversies led to Suzie McNeil, singer of the park's jingle \"Everyone Loves Marineland\" to ask the park to no longer use her recording.\n\nOn September 10, 2012, the \"Toronto Star\" published an article quoting former Marineland supervisor Jim Hammond alleging that Marineland owner, John Holer, had shot one of the baby deer in his park through the windpipe with a 12-gauge shotgun, leaving it to choke on its blood without dying. Hammond claimed the park owner refused his pleas for humane euthanasia.\n\nOn December 20, 2012, the Ontario Ministry of the Environment announced an investigation into several mass animal graves at the park. The ministry had no previous knowledge of the graves, as Marineland lacks permits for such use. After an investigation by the ministry, Marineland was allowed to continue using a section of the site for animal burials.\n\nOn March 5, 2013, the \"Toronto Star\" published an article quoting Hammond and a local resident alleging that John Holer had shot two Labrador Retrievers that had escaped a neighbour's house and entered Marineland property. The article also mentioned that Hammond was told by Holer \"to check if there were any collars . . . around their necks and if there were, to remove them.\" \n\nIn September 2013, it was reported that the Ontario Veterinary College was investigating an unspecified number of veterinarians at Marineland.\n\nAlso in 2013, OSPCA investigated the claims of some former employees of Marineland claimed that the animals' health was being put at risk by low water quality. OSPCA used the results of the investigation to make suggestions to the subsequent provincial review of its animal welfare laws.\n\nIn April 2014, the Vancouver newspaper \"The Georgia Straight\" published an article alleging that five harbour seals transferred from the Vancouver Aquarium had fell ill at Marineland due to \"poor water chemistry\". According to the article, one, \"Pepper\" died in 2006 from the conditions while the rest were blind. Marineland filed a lawsuit in July 2014 against \"The Georgia Straight\" and the article's writer for defamation and damages. According to Marineland, Pepper did not die as described in the article and the others were not blind but were in fact generally healthy. It was the eighth lawsuit filed by Marineland since 2012, third against a media outlet.\n\nIn 2015, the Government of Ontario took up debate of the keeping of orcas. Bob Barker urged Ontario Premier Kathleen Wynne to order Marineland to give up Kiska and other animals. On May 28, 2015, the Legislative Assembly of Ontario passed the \"Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Amendment Act\". The act prohibits the possession or breeding of orcas in Ontario but allowed Marineland to keep its orca.\n\nOn May 10, 2016, Marineland filed a lawsuit against filmmaker Zach Affolter to prevent the release of his documentary, \"Black Water\". The park alleges that the film contains footage illegally taken at Marineland and is a violation of their policy preventing the use of footage for commercial purposes. Affolter responded by asserting that \"\"Black Water\" is meant as an educational, non-commercial film that dives into the moral question behind keeping cetaceans in captivity.\" Marineland demanded million in damages for breach of its intellectual property rights. Affolter denied the allegations and said he had found the video of Kiska on Facebook. Until the lawsuit is resolved, the film's release is on hold.\n\nIn 2015, then-Senator Wilfred Moore of the Senate of Canada introduced Bill S-203, the \"Ending the Captivity of Whales and Dolphins Act\". Marineland would be one of two facilities in Canada to be affected by the law after the bill is passed. Marineland, along with the Vancouver Aquarium, is opposed to the bill. Marineland believes that it advances an agenda of entrenching animal rights into the legal framework: \"the granting of the rights of a person to whales — what activists call a 'non- human person' — and then to other species\". The bill would \"fundamentally and critically damage Marineland\" and \"essentially destroy Marineland's future\". Marineland believes that it has enough belugas, but it would like to get some more porpoises in the future and a companion for its one orca.\n\nIn September 2017, Green Party of Canada leader Elizabeth May filed a complaint to the Parliament of Canada's Lobbying Commissioner about Marineland's breaches of the Canadian \"Lobbying Act.\" Marineland had privately lobbied Members of Parliament and Senators without registering with the Lobbying Commissioner in efforts to stop Bill S-203. Marineland's lawyer Andrew Burns registered as a lobbyist in May 2018.\n\nProgressive Conservatives in the Senate, led by Sen. Don Plett, used procedural obstruction to keep the bill from moving to a vote. In June 2018, the senators added amendments intended to exclude Marineland and the Vancouver Aquarium from being covered by the bill.\n\nThe bill was passed by the Senate in October 2018 and was sent to the House of Commons of Canada. Andrew Burns, Marineland's lawyer appeared at a House Fisheries Committee meeting in March 2019, to propose an amendment regarding future beluga births at Marineland, claiming the new law is unconstitutional. Senator Murray Sinclair, the bill's second sponsor in the Senate and a former judge, told MPs no one is going to be prosecuted when currently pregnant belugas give birth. In the opinion of Sinclair and May, Burns was only intending to delay the bill, so that it could not be passed before the end of the current session of the Parliament of Canada. The bill was passed by committee without amendments. The bill passed third and final reading in the House of Commons on June 10, 2019.\n\nIn 2012, the Ontario Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals received complaints of animal abuse at the park from former employees and issued orders to Marineland as to the standard of care they should be following. At that time, a full investigation was not conducted. On November 10, 2016, however, the agency received a formal 35-page complaint - compiled by a California-based group Last Chance for Animals - which included photographs and videos taken by a former Marineland employee whose identity has not been revealed to the public. (The Canadian Press obtained a copy of the complaint file which was reviewed by some members of the news media; only excerpts have been published.) At that time, the OSPCA began an investigation of possible animal abuse at the park using its staff and a veterinarian.\n\nOn November 25, 2016, the OSPCA charged Marineland with five counts of animal cruelty under the Ontario SPCA Act over their treatment of peafowls, guineafowls, and American black bears in the zoo portion of the park. The Ontario SPCA alleged that the animals were distressed and did not receive the required standard of care from Marineland. The company denied the allegations.\n\nMarineland also provided a statement to The Canadian Press: \"(Last Chance for Animals) is working together with the fired former employee to exact revenge over his firing and advance their radical cause and goal to shut Marineland.\" The company also posted a commentary on their Web site indicating that it is \"being attacked by disgruntled former employees again, who are working with a professional activist group that raises just under $2 million dollars per year to share their distorted view of facts about others.\" The post indicated that the company would \"vigorously defend ourselves against these charges laid by the OSPCA\".\n\nA news article on August 10, 2017 stated that the park had started a lawsuit against former employee Philip Demers, one of those who had filed complaints with the OSPCA, for $1.5 million and that this is only one of nine lawsuits against activists, former employees and the media since 2012. None of the suits has been resolved in court.\n\nSix additional counts of animal cruelty were laid by the OSPCA on January 9, 2017. The new charges related to the treatment of elk, red deer and fallow deer. Deputy chief Jennifer Bluhm of the OSPCA provided the following comment: \"While the investigation is still ongoing, these are all the charges we expect to be laid in this case.\" On previous occasions, Marineland had stated that it would defend against charges in court. The company's first appearance to plead to the charges was set for January 26, 2017.\n\nOn the same day, Marineland posted another response on its website, critical of the OSPCA handling of the investigation and the charges, including the following comment: \"We believe the OSPCA is continuing a publicity campaign at the behest of a band of discredited activists with little relevant expertise or knowledge, in an effort to avoid further embarrassment related to an ongoing investigation into the OSPCA’s perceived failure to protect animals that is being led by the same activists they are now firmly in bed with. ... We will hold the OSPCA to the high standards of Ontario’s legal system and require them to defend their charges to the fullest extent possible.\"\n\nOn August 10, 2017, all charges were withdrawn in Niagara Falls Provincial court. The prosecutor stated that there was no likelihood of conviction and pursuit of the matters was found to not be in the public interest The OSPCA inspected the park a week later and did not find any issues of concern.\n\nIn October 2017, Marineland filed a lawsuit against the OSPCA, alleging that the OSPCA launched its investigation purely to harm Marineland. \"It was motivated by a series of improper objectives, including a desire to accomplish its own policy agenda, to mollify the animal activist community, to please its donors, and to effectively destroy Marineland.\" Marineland is seeking in damages. The OSPCA responded publicly that it \"vehemently denies all of the allegations and will defend itself.\"\n\nA subsequent pleading by the OSPCA's stated that any losses suffered by Marineland due to the charges \"are entirely the result of its own misconduct and that (Marineland) is the author of its own misfortune.\"\n\n\nA \"Toronto Star\" report in November 2012 stated that \"Marineland has had 26 killer whales over roughly three decades, according to ... Zoocheck Canada. Of these, 16 died at Marineland. ... Six died in other parks after being transferred while one died en route from Marineland to Japan\". The following include orca deaths that were well documented.\n\n\nMarineland's main advertising comes through a series of radio and television commercials with the jingle \"Everyone Loves Marineland\". Marineland has also used other slogans over the years in its advertising:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2007477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007477", "title": "Vítor Meira", "text": "Vítor Meira\n\nVítor Meira (born March 27, 1977) is a Brazilian auto racing driver. He formerly competed in the IndyCar Series and has twice finished second in the Indianapolis 500.\n\nAfter participating in an open test for Panther Racing at Texas Motor Speedway in 2002, Meira made his IndyCar debut with Team Menard on August 11, 2002 at Kentucky Speedway. A little over a month later, Vitor won his first career pole at Texas Motor Speedway after just four starts, and finished in third place.\n\nIn 2003, Meira ran his first start of the year for Team Menard at the Indianapolis 500, where he finished 12th as a rookie. Meira then ran the next seven races in the #2 Johns Manville powered Dallara Chevrolet, until a practice crash at Kentucky Speedway sidelined him for the next three races. After recovering from his wrist injury he suffered at Kentucky, Vitor ran the final two races of the season.\n\nIn 2004, Meira missed the first two races of the season before a race-by-race deal was presented to Meira by Rahal-Letterman Racing. After Vitor's disappointing finish of 17th in Indy Japan 300, where he suffered a clutch problem, he ran the rest of the season in the #17 G-Force sponsored by Centrix Financial. At The Milwaukee Mile, on July 25, 2004, Meira earned his second career pole.\n\nRahal-Letterman Racing signed Meira to a three-year contract in 2005, with backing from longtime supporter, Johns Manville and Menards. One notable race finish during the year was a second place to Dan Wheldon at the Indianapolis 500. Meira gave Rahal-Letterman Racing their best final point standing finish of seventh as well as recording seven top five and eleven top ten finishes for the team. After losing a majority of the funds for the #17 car, Rahal-Letterman needed a driver who had sponsorship with them. For Meira, that meant losing his ride to Paul Dana, who brought Ethanol sponsorship.\n\nGoing into 2006, Meira was looking to moving back to Brazil and run stock cars for fellow Brazilian and IndyCar competitor, Hélio Castroneves' team. But just as he was getting ready to pack his bags for Brasília, he received a phone call from Panther Racing owner, John Barnes. Even though Panther had lost their longtime sponsor, Pennzoil, as well as engine supplier, Chevrolet, the owners (John Barnes, Mike Griffin, Jim Harbaugh, and Doug Boles), sold off old cars, parts, and equipment to keep the team running. After much speculation of the team closing its doors in Indianapolis, the news came on February 10, 2006 that Panther Racing and Meira signed a deal to run the famous #4 for the 2006 IndyCar season. Throughout 2006, Panther Racing and Meira had a plethora of sponsors on the side of their Honda powered Dallara. Econova, Network Live, Harrah's, Lincoln Tech, and Revive all adorned the sidepods of the brightly colored orange car during the 2006 season. Despite not winning a race in 2006, Meira finished a career best of fifth in the IndyCar point standings after finishing the season with seven top five and twelve top ten finishes. Even though he has not won a race in over 50 starts, he has finished second seven times in his career.\n\nAfter signing a three-year contract with Panther Racing in 2008, Meira was sponsored by longtime IndyCar participant, Delphi Corporation, who signed a two-year deal with the team.\n\nMeira, who became engaged to longtime girlfriend, Adriana, in March 2006, was married at the Little White Wedding Chapel in Las Vegas on March 22, 2008.\nMeira returned to Panther Racing in 2008 where the United States National Guard became the car's primary sponsor and Delphi became a secondary one. However, the team again contracted to a single car in the IndyCar Series as the Aguri and their sponsorship took Mutoh to the IndyCar Series with Andretti Green Racing rather than Panther.\n\nMeira finished second in the 2008 running of the Indianapolis 500 matching his second-place finish in 2005. Meira chased the eventual winner, Scott Dixon, closing the gap to as little as 0.4 seconds until losing ground due to late race traffic. Meira set his fastest lap on lap 195 of 200.\n\nMeira drove the #14 for A. J. Foyt Enterprises in 2009, replacing Darren Manning. During the 2009 Indianapolis 500, Meira's car survived a spectactular fire in the pits and he later broke two vertebrae in his lower back during a crash involving Raphael Matos on lap 174. Meira did not need surgery and the fracture was treated with a back brace. Meira was out for the rest of the 2009 season.\n\nMeira drove to a podium finish in his first race back after his injury; a 3rd-place finish in his home country of Brazil. This would be his best finish of the year. Vitor drove to a 12th place overall finish in the points standings for the 2010 IndyCar Series season.\n\nMeira returned to A. J. Foyt Enterprises driving the #14 ABC Supply Company Indy Car.\n\n† Ineligible for championship points.\n\n"}
{"id": "2007517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007517", "title": "IBM 610", "text": "IBM 610\n\nThe IBM 610 Auto-Point Computer is one of the first personal computers, in the sense of a computer to be used by one person whose previous experience with computing might only have been with desk calculators. It was controlled interactively by a keyboard. The principal designer of this machine was John Lentz, as part of his work for the Watson Lab at Columbia University.\n\nThe IBM 610 was introduced in 1957. It was small enough to easily fit in an office; it weighed about . It was designed to be used in a normal office, without any special electrical or air conditioning requirements. It used vacuum tubes, a magnetic drum, and punched paper tape readers and punchers. The input was from a keyboard and output was to an IBM electric typewriter, at eighteen characters per second. It was one of the first (if not the first) computers to be controlled from a keyboard. The term \"auto-point\" referred to the ability to automatically adjust the decimal point in floating-point arithmetic.\n\nIts price was $55,000, or it could be rented for $1150 per month ($460 academic). A total of 180 units were made. It was a slow and limited computer, and was generally replaced by the IBM 1620.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2007518", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007518", "title": "Santa Fe 3751", "text": "Santa Fe 3751\n\nAtchison, Topeka & Santa Fe 3751 is a class 3751 4-8-4 \"Northern\" type steam locomotive built in 1927 by the Baldwin Locomotive Works for the Atchison, Topeka and Santa Fe Railway. Built as the first Northern type steam locomotive for the Santa Fe, the 3751 served in passenger duties until being retired in 1953.\n\nThe locomotive was then placed on display in San Bernardino, California until it was restored to operating condition in 1991. The 3751 is currently located in the Central City East neighborhood of Los Angeles and is listed on the National Register of Historic Places. Today, Santa Fe 3751 holds the distinction of being the oldest surviving 4-8-4 type steam locomotive in the world.\n\nThe locomotive is currently owned and operated by the San Bernardino Railroad Historical Society who use the locomotive to haul occasional mainline excursion trains. However, a federally mandated 15-year inspection was expected to put it out of service for three to four years. 3751's current overhaul is estimated to be completed sometime in 2020.\n\nBuilt in 1927 by the Baldwin Locomotive Works, 3751 was Baldwin's and the Santa Fe Railway's first 4-8-4. It had a Santa Fe 5-chime freight whistle mounted on it. Tests showed that 3751 was 20% more efficient and powerful than the Santa Fe's 3700 class 4-8-2 \"Mountain\" type steamers, which at the time were Santa Fe's most advanced steam locomotives. In 1936, the engine was converted to burn oil. Two years later, the locomotive was given a larger tender able to hold of water and of fuel oil. 3751 was also present at the grand opening of Union Station in Los Angeles on May 7, 1939, pulling the \"Scout\", one of Santa Fe's crack passenger trains as it arrived from Chicago. It was the first steam locomotive to bring a passenger train into LAUPT. In 1941, along with other 4-8-4s, 3751 received major upgrades including: drive wheels, a new frame, roller bearings all around, and more. That same year, it achieved its highest recorded speed at . It continued to be a very reliable working locomotive until 1953, when it pulled the last regularly scheduled steam-powered passenger train on the Santa Fe to run between Los Angeles and San Diego on August 25; this was its last run in revenue service. After that, it was stored at the Redondo Junction roundhouse in Los Angeles for four years before it was officially retired from the roster by the railroad in 1957, and in 1958, it was placed on display in San Bernardino, California.\n\nIn 1981, the San Bernardino Railroad Historical Society was formed with intentions of restoring and operating 3751. Four years later, they achieved their goal when 3751 was sold to them for $1 with the condition that the SBRHS must restore and operate the locomotive. In 1986, 3751 was moved from its display to California Steel Industries, where it was restored at a cost of $1.5 million. On August 13, 1991, it moved under its own steam for the first time in 38 years. It made its first excursion run on December 27, 1991, running with two Santa Fe FP45s and 16 passenger cars on a four-day trip from Los Angeles to Bakersfield. Since then, it has been utilized for a large number of excursions and special trips as well as being on display at many events. Ever since it was restored in 1991, the 3751 is now one of the most well-known steam locomotives in North America that still operates to this day.\n\nThe locomotive is currently owned by the San Bernardino Railroad Historical Society, the same organization that performed the initial 1986 restoration.\n\nIn August 1992, the 3751 was found on its largest assignment so far, as the engine ran the entire route of Santa Fe's Transcon route between Los Angeles and Chicago with three and later two Santa Fe C40-8Ws. The engine spent 18 days traveling over in both directions.\n\nOn April 22–23, 1995, 3751 was displayed in the Riverside Sunkist Orange Blossom Festival in Riverside, CA. On September 22 1995 when Atchison, Topeka and Santa Fe merged with Burlington Northern Railroad to form Burlington Northern Santa Fe with the same number. The excursion happened again on April 20–21, 1996. \n\nAlso on April 22, 1995, the engine's original 5-chime freight whistle (called the LM-192, made by the Locomotive Finished Material Company—or LFM—of Atchison, KS) was replaced with a new 6-chime whistle (The LM-540, also made by LFM. This was intended to be the standard whistle on all Santa Fe steam engines from about mid-1931 on (Though many locomotives, including most of the original 3751 class (14 locomotives in all), retained their 5-chime whistles due to apparent height clearance issues in some passenger train terminals)). To this day, the 6-chime has been the mainstay on 3751.\n\nIn June 1999, the locomotive participated in Railfair 99. On the way to the fair, 3751 ran with a BNSF C44-9W and a passenger train mixed with a boxcar train.\n\nIn October 2000, 3751 was listed on the National Register of Historic Places.\n\nA second locomotive of the same class has also been preserved, Santa Fe 3759 in Kingman, Arizona. It too is listed on the NRHP.\n\nThe locomotive has been displayed at Fullerton Railroad Days in Fullerton, California a number of times.\n\nIn August 2002, the 3751 ran an Amtrak excursion from Los Angeles to Williams, Arizona to participate in the 2002 National Railway Historical Society Convention. The excursion ran over Metrolink, BNSF Railway, and Arizona and California Railroad tracks. The engine also ran on the Grand Canyon Railway for an excursion on the former Santa Fe's \"Grand Canyon\" line. The event including double and tripleheading with Grand Canyon Railway's own steam engines.\n\nIn 2008, 3751 ran on the Surfline route for two excursions from Los Angeles to San Diego. The first, on June 1, was a public excursion which left 30 minutes late due to a delayed Metrolink train and arrived in San Diego 2 hours behind schedule, mostly caused by the single-track railroad south of Mission Viejo station. The excursion made the locomotive the first steam locomotive to run on the Surf Line since the 1976 American Freedom Train, it was also the first steam powered passenger train to make the run between Los Angeles and San Diego since 3751 last traveled the line in 1953. The train was turned at Miramar Wye, 15 miles north of San Diego station. The second excursion was a private car special on September 21. However, a trespasser was struck near Mission Viejo, delaying all trains up to 3 hours. The excursion passed the cleared location at around 9:00 pm.\n\nIn May 2010, the locomotive returned to the Surf Line for a third excursion from Los Angeles to San Diego, pulling eight Amtrak cars and a few dome cars, attracting large crowds. In order to alleviate issues with turning the train, the excursion was split over two days: south to San Diego on May 1, and north to Los Angeles the following day. This proved successful, as 3751 was on time into San Diego the first day and sustained only normal delays northbound, thus proving the excursion to be the most successful yet. The weekend after the trip to San Diego had the engine in San Bernardino for \"National Train Day\" as well as the 2010 San Bernardino Railroad Days festival. It made an annual run to San Bernardino for the Railroad Days Festival in April or May since the initial trip.\n\nIn May 2012, 3751 powered a six-day excursion from Los Angeles to Williams, Arizona to celebrate the state's Centennial. As part of the excursion a special roundtrip doubleheader to the Grand Canyon and back was run with 3751 and Grand Canyon Railway's former Chicago Burlington and Quincy 2-8-2 Mikado 4960. The train also operated over the Arizona and California Railroad on the way to Williams and on the return trip to Los Angeles. Three weeks before the trip to Arizona the engine also made the trip east to attend the San Bernardino Railroad Days Festival for the third year in a row.\n\nIn May 2013, 3751 ran on a fourth trip to the San Bernardino Railroad Days Festival.\n\nIn May 2015, 3751 made an appearance at Fullerton Railroad Days 2015 in Fullerton, California, making it the first time since 2008 to appear at this event. From April 31 - May 1, 2016, the loco was on display again and left Fullerton 2 hours late due to traffic. From May 6–7, 2017, she was on display yet again for the last time for a few years as she will be going into a 3-4 year restoration. She will be on display at Union Station's Summer Train Fest on July 15, 2017 before being overhauled. 3751's overhaul is currently estimated to be completed sometime in 2020.\n\n\n3751 was also featured in the \"There Goes a...\" episode \"There Goes a Train\" footage used in \"Route of the Chief\".\n\nSanta Fe 3751 can also be briefly viewed near the end of the 1952 film \"Boots Malone\" starring William Holden, and Harry Morgan.\n\n3751 was also featured in the 1950 Clark Gable-starred film \"Key to the City\" and the 2001 film \"Pearl Harbor\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2007519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007519", "title": "Jorge de Castro Font", "text": "Jorge de Castro Font\n\nJorge Adolfo de Castro-Font (born on September 10, 1963) is a former Puerto Rican Senator and former member of the House of Representatives. Originally, he was a member of the Popular Democratic Party (PPD) but became an independent representative in 2001 after inner disputes with his party. In 2002, he became a member of the New Progressive Party (PNP) and was elected Senator in 2004 and 2008, despite inner struggles within the party and legal issues. \n\nIn 2008, De Castro Font was arrested by the FBI and subsequently charged with 21 counts of fraud and conspiracy. As a result, he was sentenced to 5 years in federal prison and 3 years probation.\n\nJorge de Castro Font was born in San Juan, on September 10, 1963 to former Puerto Rico Ombudsman Rafael Adolfo de Castro Campos and María Eugenia Font González. He is the grandson of Jorge Font Saldaña, one of former Gov. Luis Muñoz Marín's closest associates.\n\nDe Castro Font received his Bachelor's degree in Justice System from the Universidad del Sagrado Corazón in San Juan and his Master's degree in History from the Puerto Rico and Caribbean Center for Advanced Studies in Old San Juan. De Castro Font was also a member of the United States Army Reserve, and served briefly with the Puerto Rico National Guard.\n\nDe Castro Font started distinguishing himself as a youth leader for the Popular Democratic Party. In 1985, he was the assistant of then-Speaker of the House of Representatives, José Ronaldo Jarabo.\n\nDe Castro Font decided to run for an elective post in 1988. He was elected to the Puerto Rico House of Representatives in the 1988 general elections. He was 25 at the time, making him the youngest elected representative to that date. He was reelected to the post in the 1992, 1996, and 2000 general elections.\n\nIn August 2001, following internal disputes within the PPD, De Castro Font left the party to become an independent representative. There are several versions of the nature and manner of him leaving the party. While De Castro states that he willfully left the party, others suggest he was forced out.\n\nOn September 27, 2002, De Castro Font announced he was joining the ranks of the New Progressive Party (PNP) and announced his candidacy for a Senate position.\n\nDe Castro Font went on to win the party primaries and eventually the Senate seat in the 2004 general elections. The elections resulted in a \"mixed\" government with PPD's Aníbal Acevedo Vilá as governor, and the PNP dominating both the House of Representatives and the Senate. The PNP majority caucus elected De Castro Font on November 4, 2004 as the Majority Leader of the newly elected Senate, while his friend Kenneth McClintock was elected President of the Senate.\n\nIn early 2005, after his narrow defeat in the 2004 gubernatorial race, former governor Pedro Rosselló announced he was aspiring for a Senate seat vacated by a freshman Senator for the district of Arecibo. After joining the Senate, he expressed his hopes of becoming president of the Senate, and asked his fellow party Senators to support him over President Kenneth McClintock. However, six Senators, including De Castro Font, refused to do so and continued supporting McClintock.\n\nThis prompted the PNP Board to expel several of these Senators, including De Castro Font, while suspending others. De Castro Font gave up his post as the Senate Majority Leader (which went to Senator Margarita Nolasco), but retained the chairmanship of the Senate Rules Committee, which allowed him to direct all floor activities in the Senate. As a result of the split within the party, McClintock appointed De Castro Font as chairman of the Judiciary Committee and the Municipal and Financial Affairs Committee, and co-chair of the Joint Select Committee on the Civil Code and the Joint Select Committee on the Penal Code.\n\nDe Castro did not recognize the party's decision to expel him and continued to identify himself both as a supporter of statehood for Puerto Rico as well as a member of the PNP. The Supreme Court of Puerto Rico, in the case McClintock vs. Rivera Schatz, annulled De Castro Font's expulsion from the party in a 5-1 decision. In a subsequent case, De Castro Font vs Partido Nuevo Progresista, the Court confirmed his right to appear in the NPP primary ballot.\n\nDe Castro Font was again nominated on March 9, 2008 in the PNP primary by voters. On July 8, 2008, it was reported that De Castro Font was under investigation for fraud and corruption by the FBI, which was based on testimony by witnesses interviewed regarding a second case. The pro-statehood senator responded saying that he \"has never received money in exchange for a favor\".\n\nOn August 23, 2008, the Federal Bureau of Investigation raided the Senator's Capitol office, a San Juan, Puerto Rico gas station at which he was a client and his Hato Rey apartment after obtaining a search warrant from U.S. District Court Judge Francisco Besosa. On August 25, Federal agents visited the homes of some of his employees. On that date, he ceased to be the Senate Majority Leader.\n\nThe search warrants confirmed the rumor of an ongoing investigation from the FBI against De Castro Font. These events were considered by the PNP's President and candidate for Governor, Luis Fortuño, as sufficient cause to seek his disqualification as a candidate for reelection to the Senate. To this, Senator De Castro Font responded aggressively and threatened to reveal information that could link many members of the party in illicit activities, including Fortuño and his wife.\n\nOn September 9, 2008, De Castro Font voluntarily arrived at the Federico Degetau Federal Building in San Juan to \"turn himself in\" after allegedly receiving a phone call that morning from a close friend of Fortuño's, advising him that he was to be arrested that day. The Senator opted to show up at court, rather than be publicly arrested. It is believed that after this event, the Senator and the FBI reached an agreement to allow the Senator to turn himself in voluntarily if there was ever a warrant for his arrest.\n\nOn September 10, 2008, San Juan District Court rejected the pleas of the PNP to expel Jorge De Castro Font from the ballot for the upcoming elections. The judge determined that once a candidate has been elected in a primary by the people and has been officially certified by the Comisión Estatal de Eleciones, \"he or she cannot be removed for reasons other than those specified by law\". Puerto Rico electoral law states that a candidate may only be disqualified if he or she violates state or federal law, violations of internal Party policies are not sufficient cause.\n\nOn October 2, 2008, De Castro Font was arrested by the FBI at his lawyer's office in San Juan, Puerto Rico. De Castro Font was arrested and indicted on 32 federal charges including fraud, extortion, bribery and money laundering. The charges carry a maximum sentence of 20 years imprisonment. His political consultant and aide, Alberto Goachet, 67, was also indicted for honest services fraud and extortion. The case is prosecuted by the Criminal Division's Public Integrity Section headed by Chief William M. Welch II, and investigated by the FBI's San Juan Field Office. On that date, Senate President Kenneth McClintock immediately removed him as chairman of the Senate Rules Committee, appointing Senate Majority Leader Margarita Nolasco to fill the vacancy. De Castro subsequently lashed out against McClintock for being a \"traitor\" to him.\n\nSurprisingly, De Castro Font won a slot in the PNP ballot at the PNP primaries, and on the 2008 general elections held on November 4, he was reelected as Senator despite his legal troubles.\n\nOn December 4, 2008, de Castro was arrested and jailed indefinitely for violating his bail conditions when, according to Federal District Court Judge Francisco Besosa he has at least three improper contacts with government witnesses. During several instances while awaiting trial, he was housed in the Federal Metropolitan Detention Center in \"Carcel Federal de Guaynabo\", Puerto Rico. On December 21, 2008, in a letter to PNP President and Governor-elect Luis Fortuño, he announced that he was resigning the seat to which he was elected in the upcoming Senate scheduled to take office on January 2, 2009. \n\nDe Castro Font was sentenced on May 17, 2011, to 5 years in prison and 3 years probation. He awaits trial in local courts for related local corruption and tax evasion charges.\n\nJorge de Castro Font married Jessica Fernández in the 90s. They had three children: Andrea Victoria, Jorge Adolfo, and Sofía María. \n\nIn recent years, De Castro married attorney Lisandra Delgado. In the midst of his trial, they were divorced. This caused De Castro Font to be taken to a psychiatric hospital due to the stress of the two legal proceedings against him. He was released a few days after to favor home treatment. Later that year, he attempted suicide. Delgado also claimed that she was victim of stalking by the former senator.\n\nIn 2011, as a result of De Castro's legal troubles and current incarceration, it was speculated that his ex-wife, Lisandra, could either be charged with him locally for tax evasion, or serve as a witness against her ex-husband.\n\nIn 2020, he made news for a minor car accident.\n\n"}
{"id": "2007542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007542", "title": "Moonee Valley Racing Club", "text": "Moonee Valley Racing Club\n\nThe Moonee Valley Racing Club (MVRC) was founded by William Samuel (W.S.) Cox), in 1883 is located at The Valley Racecourse on McPherson Street, Moonee Ponds (a suburb of Melbourne, Victoria, Australia). It is one of three racing clubs in the Melbourne metropolitan area; the others are the Victoria Racing Club and the Melbourne Racing Club.\n\n"}
{"id": "2007546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007546", "title": "Kings of Pop", "text": "Kings of Pop\n\nKings of Pop is the third and final album by the rock band Home Grown, released in 2002 by Drive-Thru Records. It was the band's first release with drummer Darren Reynolds and also their only release as a trio, having lost their second guitarist in 2000.\n\nShortly after its release, however, Dan Hammond joined the band as their new second guitarist. He appears with the rest of the band in the music videos for the singles \"You're Not Alone\" and \"Kiss Me, Diss Me\". Between late June and mid-August, the group went on the 2002 edition of Warped Tour. Between late August and October 2003, the group performed on the Drive-Thru Records 2003 Invasion Tour. The band supported the album with several other tours. However, it would prove to be their final album as the band went on \"indefinite hiatus\" in 2005 after releasing the EP \"When it All Comes Down\".\n\nThe album contains 3 hidden tracks which appear after \"Disaster,\" at 7:30 into track 12. They are a 9-second \"techno song,\" a short rap about \"Asian flavor,\" and a short acoustic \"song for Steve.\" There was also a single released for \"You're Not Alone\" which contained tracks \"Break Me Down\" and \"Hope Sinks\", which were B-sides from the album. \"Kings of Pop\" was released on clear vinyl by Drive-Thru Records, and was reissued in 2015 by Mutant League Records after being out of print for over a decade.\n\nIt was the band's most successful release, reaching #189 on the \"Billboard\" 200 chart. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2007549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007549", "title": "Hudud al-'Alam", "text": "Hudud al-'Alam\n\nThe Ḥudūd al-ʿĀlam ( \"Boundaries of the World\" or \"Limits of the World\") is a 10th-century geography book written in Persian by an unknown author from Jowzjan. The title in full is (\"Ḥudūd al-ʿĀlam min al-Mashriq ilá l-Maghrib\", \"The Boundaries of The World from The East to the West\").\n\nIn English, the title is also translated as \"The Regions of the World\" following Vladimir Minorsky's 1937 translation, in which he commented on the title as follows: \"The word ḥudūd (properly 'boundaries') in our case evidently refers to the 'regions within definite boundaries' into which the world is divided in the Ḥ.-'Ā., the author indicating with special care the frontiers of each one of these areas, v.i., p. 30. [As I use the word \"region\" mostly for \"nāḥiyat\" it would have been better, perhaps, to translate \"Ḥudūd al-Ālam\" as \"The limited areas of the World\".]\"\n\nFinished in 982 CE, it was dedicated to Abu'l Haret Muhammad, the ruler of the Farighunids. Its author is unknown, but Vladimir Minorsky has surmised that it might have been written by the enigmatic Šaʿyā bin Farīghūn, author of a pioneer encyclopedia of the sciences, the \"Jawāmeʿ al-ʿUlum\", for an amir of Čaghāniān on the upper Amu Darya in the mid-10th century. The available text of \"Ḥudūd al-ʿĀlam\" is part of a larger manuscript which contains other works: \n\n\nThe \"Ḥudūd al-ʿĀlam\" contains information about the known world. The anonymous author reports about different countries (\"nāḥiyat\"), people, languages, clothing, food, religion, local products, towns and cities, rivers, seas, lakes, islands, the steppe, deserts, topography, politics and dynasties, as well as trade. The inhabited world is divided in Asia, Europe and \"Libya\" (i.e. the Maghreb). The author counts a total of 45 different countries north of the equator. \n\nThe author never visited those countries personally, but rather compiled the book from earlier works and tales. He did not indicate his sources, but researchers deduced some, for example Estakhri \"Book of the Paths and Provinces\" (), or the works of Abu Abdallah al-Jayhani and Ibn Khordadbeh.\n\nAmong other things, Hudud al-Alam appears to mention Rus' Khaganate; it refers to the Rus' king as \"Khāqān-i Rus\". The unknown author is believed to have relied on several 9th-century sources.\n\nThe Orientalist Russian scholar Alexander Tumansky found a manuscript with a copy of this text in 1892 in Bukhara. The copy from the original was made by the Persian chronographer Abu l-Mu'ayyad ʿAbd al-Qayyūm ibn al-Ḥusain ibn 'Alī al-Farīsī in 1258. The facsimile edition with introduction and index was published by Vasily Bartold in 1930; a thoroughly commented English translation was made by Vladmir Minorsky in 1937, and a printed Persian text by Manouchehr Sotudeh in 1962\n\nThe sections of its geographical treatise which describes the margins of Islamic world, are of the greatest historical importance. The work also includes important early descriptions of the Turkic peoples in Central Asia. Also noteworthy is the archaic language and style of the \"Ḥudud\", which makes it a valuable Persian linguistic document as well.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2007550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007550", "title": "Soga no Emishi", "text": "Soga no Emishi\n\nAccording to the Nihonshoki, from the end of the reign of Empress Suiko to that of Empress Kōgyoku, Emishi enjoyed influence in the court. After the death of Empress Suiko, Emishi succeeded in installing Prince Tamura on the throne as Emperor Jomei by citing the will of Empress Suiko. Although Prince Yamashiro was another candidate, Emishi murdered Sakaibe no Marise, his uncle who nominated Oe no Ou, paving the way for his favorite. After the discernment of Emperor Jomei, Emishi supported Empress Kōgyoku. \n\nHis daughter, Soga no Tetsuki no Iratsume, was a wife of Emperor Jomei and bore Emperor Jomei one daughter Princess Yata.\n\nIn 645, when his son Iruka was murdered in front of the Empress, Emishi committed suicide the next day.\n"}
{"id": "2007551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007551", "title": "Federal Kidnapping Act", "text": "Federal Kidnapping Act\n\nFollowing the historic Lindbergh kidnapping (the abduction and murder of Charles Lindbergh's toddler son), the United States Congress passed a federal kidnapping statute—known as the Federal Kidnapping Act, (a)(1) (popularly known as the Lindbergh Law, or Little Lindbergh Law)—which was intended to let federal authorities step in and pursue kidnappers once they had crossed state lines with their victim. The Act became law in 1932.\n\nThe theory behind the Lindbergh Law was that federal law enforcement intervention was necessary because state and local law enforcement officers could not effectively pursue kidnappers across state lines. Since federal law enforcement, such as FBI agents and U.S. Marshals, have national law enforcement authority, Congress believed they could do a much more effective job of dealing with kidnappings than could state, county, and local authorities.\n\nA provision of the law provides exception for parents who abduct their own minor children.\n\nSeveral states implemented their own versions of this law, known as \"Little Lindbergh\" laws, covering acts of kidnapping that did not cross state lines. In some states, if the victim was physically harmed in any manner, the crime qualified for capital punishment. This was what occurred in the Caryl Chessman case in California. Following the April 8, 1968 decision by the United States Supreme Court in \"United States v. Jackson\", kidnapping alone no longer constitutes a capital offense.\n\n"}
{"id": "2007564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007564", "title": "Cerros de Amotape National Park", "text": "Cerros de Amotape National Park\n\nCerros de Amotape National Park () is a protected area located in the regions of Piura and Tumbes in northern Peru.\n\nThe national park was officially established on July 22, 1975.\n\nCerros de Amotape National Park is located in the provinces of Tumbes and Contralmirante Villar in the region of Tumbes and the province of Sullana in the region of Piura. It has an area of which includes the mountain range called \"Cordillera de los Amotapes\" and the Tumbes River, the only navigable river on the Peruvian coast. The park has an elevational range between 120 m and 1538 m.\n\nIn the area, the rainy season spans from December to April, being the southern and western areas of the park the ones that receive less rain. Mean annual temperatures are in the range of 23° to 26 °C, with a mean annual precipitation of 500 mm in the tropical dry forest zone and 1450 mm in the Pacific tropical forest zone.\n\nThe park protects a portion of the Tumbes-Piura dry forests ecoregion and the southern reaches of the Pacific Tropical Forest.\n\nAmong the trees found in this area are: ceibo (\"Ceiba trichistandra\"), algarrobo (\"Prosopis pallida\"), angolo (\"Albizia multiflora\"), cedro (\"Cedrela\" sp.), ébano (\"Ziziphus thyrsiflora\"), guayacán (\"Tabebuia billbergii\"), madero (\"Tabebuia\" \"chrysantha\"), hualtaco (\"Loxopterygium huasango\"), palo santo (\"Bursera graveolens\"), etc.\n\nSome of the mammals found in this area are: the red brocket, the Guayaquil squirrel, the neotropical otter, the white-tailed deer, the mantled howler, the white-fronted capuchin, the ocelot and the jaguar.\n\nA total of 111 bird species have been registered in the park, some of them are: the grey-backed hawk, the grey-cheeked parakeet, the blackish-headed spinetail and the slaty becard.\n\nThe park is home to the endangered American crocodile.\n\nHiking can be done in the park, especially in the buffer zone; there's the possibility to rent mules for longer routes inside the park. Canoeing can be done in the Tumbes river. Nature watching and research are other important activities in the park.\n\nThe park's checkpoints can be used as places to stay overnight.\n\nAt the zone of El Caucho, in the tropical forest zone, there are research facilities that can be visited.\n\nThe main threats to biodiversity inside the park are: livestock grazing, wood extraction (for construction and charcoal), extraction of honey from wild honeybees, hunting, overfishing in the Tumbes river, pollution of rivers, garbage left by tourists and introduction of exotic plant species.\n\n"}
{"id": "2007573", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007573", "title": "Paice Ashton Lord", "text": "Paice Ashton Lord\n\nPaice Ashton Lord was a short-lived British rock band featuring Deep Purple band members Ian Paice and Jon Lord with singer Tony Ashton. The band was formed in 1976, released its only album in 1977 and broke up in 1978.\n\nAfter Deep Purple broke up in 1976, drummer Ian Paice and keyboard player Jon Lord created a new band, Paice Ashton Lord, with friend Tony Ashton, a British keyboardist and singer of Ashton, Gardner and Dyke. After extensive auditions they chose Bernie Marsden to play electric guitar and Paul Martinez as the band's bassist.\n\nTony Ashton had previously played with Lord on the 1974 album \"First of the Big Bands\" and on Lord's \"Gemini Suite\" project in 1971, singing lead vocals on one track. He collaborated on Lord's solo work and Deep Purple bassist Roger Glover's solo projects.\n\nSoon after Ashton broke his leg falling off a stage in the dark at a London concert, the group was wound up. Lord, Marsden and later Paice joined David Coverdale's Whitesnake. Martinez joined Stan Webb's Chicken Shack for a short time, before joining John Otway for one album, and going on to play with Robert Plant. Later on, Paice played in Gary Moore's band before he and Lord joined the re-formed Deep Purple in 1984.\n\nTony Ashton died of cancer on 28 May 2001, as did Jon Lord, of pancreatic cancer, on 16 July 2012.\n\nA memorial concert was held for Tony Ashton at the Buxton Opera House on 4 November 2001.\n\nThe band recorded their debut album \"Malice in Wonderland\" at Musicland Studios in Munich in September and October 1976. The record was released in February 1977. The music included elements of rhythm and blues, funk and soul, with several tracks featuring a brass section and backing vocals from Sheila and Jeanette McKinley. Despite some critical appreciation, the album was not a great commercial success. A second album was planned but was not released.\n\nFilm of the band recording the album in the studio was later released as \"Lifespan\".\n\nThe band appeared on the BBC2 & BBC Radio 1 simulcast series \"Sight And Sound: In Concert\", in 1977, performing songs from \"Malice In Wonderland\", plus \"The Ballad Of Mr. Giver\", from Ashton & Lord's 1974 album, \"First of the Big Bands\". This recording was later released, subsequently with a DVD.\n\nAn audiovisual recording of a 1977 Paice Ashton Lord concert in London was released on DVD in 2006.\n\nIn June 2000 Pete York and Jon Lord organised a testimonial concert for Tony Ashton at London's Abbey Road Studios to mark Ashton's apparent recovery from illness, named the 'Endangered Species Awards 2000'. 300 guests were invited and Tony Ashton was backed by artists including Lord, Paice, Marsden, Whitesnake's Neil Murray, Ringo Starr's son Zak Starkey and actor Ewan McGregor. A recording of 23 tracks from the event was released as 'Endangered Species' in 2009, featuring four Paice Ashton Lord songs.\n\n\"Malice in Wonderland\" was re-released on CD in 2001 by Purple Records and 2019 by earMUSIC, each with an additional thirty minutes of songs intended for the unreleased second album. The earMUSIC release includes an extensive 24-page-booklet with new liner notes by Simon Robinson and previously unseen photos by Alan Messer. earMUSIC also re-released the album as 2LP gatefold.\n\n"}
{"id": "2007580", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007580", "title": "Robia LaMorte", "text": "Robia LaMorte\n\nRobia LaMorte Scott (born 1970) is an American actress and dancer. She is best known as a dancer and spokesperson for the musician Prince, and for starring as Jenny Calendar in the television series \"Buffy the Vampire Slayer\".\n\nScott was born in the New York City borough of Queens in 1970 and grew up in several locations including the Florida Keys and Ocean City, Maryland. She is named after her father, Robert LaMorte. After being inspired by the 1983 movie \"Flashdance\", she began dancing and taking after-school lessons in jazz dance, ballet, and tap dance. She attended the Los Angeles County High School for the Arts as a dance major during the school's first year of operation, and then received a full scholarship to the Dupree Dance Academy in Hollywood. At sixteen, she began working as a backup dancer in music videos, first appearing in Debbie Gibson's \"Shake Your Love\".\n\nAfter having appeared in more than thirty music videos and toured in a six-dancer troupe with the Pet Shop Boys, LaMorte was picked by Prince to be one of two lead dancers for the music video for \"Cream\", a single from his 1991 album \"Diamonds and Pearls\". Prince had originally sought identical twins, but chose LaMorte along with another dancer, Lori Elle, because of their similar appearance and the dance chemistry they had with him. Elle as \"Diamond\" and LaMorte as \"Pearl\" subsequently appeared in the videos for \"Cream\", \"Gett Off\", \"Strollin'\", and the album's title track, as well as on the album's holographic cover itself. LaMorte and Elle then toured Europe with Prince, and when he temporarily refused to do any public speaking, the two girls served as his spokespersons and conducted the main promotional efforts for \"Diamonds and Pearls\".\nElle would later go on tour with Ricky Martin and Michael Jackson.\n\nAt the age of 22, LaMorte retired from dance and turned to acting. After doing numerous television commercials, she landed the role of Jason Priestley's girlfriend Jill Fleming on \"Beverly Hills, 90210\" in two episodes and played the female lead (alongside Andrew Bowen) in the live action video game \"Fox Hunt\". Her first regular role was as high school teacher and technopagan Jenny Calendar on the first two seasons of \"Buffy the Vampire Slayer\". After her character was killed during the second season, she returned for two more episodes as a ghost. In the second season finale \"Becoming, Part Two\" she makes a brief appearance as a hypnosis induced suggestion by Drusilla to trick Rupert Giles into revealing the flaw in Angel's plan. Finally she returned during the third season episode \"Amends\" to play a false apparition of the dead Calendar, a guise assumed by the evil force known as \"the First Evil\". However, LaMorte had become a born-again Christian after a highway encounter with a Christian biker gang while she was praying for a sign from God. After having already accepted the guest appearance on her old show, she was upset to learn that she would be playing an equivalent of Satan.\n\nSince her role ended on \"Buffy\", LaMorte has periodically accepted guest starring roles on various television shows. More recently she has retired from acting, focusing her efforts on other priorities such as Christian counseling, although she occasionally can be seen in commercials and smaller roles. She also spends some of her time preaching Christianity and selling audio CDs on her website that give accounts of her religious conversion and beliefs. In an FAQ on that site, LaMorte writes that while she was once a proponent of New Age beliefs, she rejected them after her conversion to Christianity. She criticizes these beliefs as a form of \"earth worship\" and characterizes the practice of witchcraft a dangerous opening for demonic influence. She later returned to acting, appearing in the film Unplanned.\n\nLaMorte is currently married under the last name Scott. She has one daughter. She is a committed Christian, and describes her conversion on her website.\n\n"}
{"id": "2007590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007590", "title": "Tabitha Soren", "text": "Tabitha Soren\n\nTabitha Soren, is an American fine art photographer and former reporter for MTV News, ABC News and NBC News.\n\nAs a 19-year-old college student at NYU, Soren appeared in the 1987 music video for \"(You Gotta) Fight for Your Right (to Party)\" by the Beastie Boys. At the age of 23, she was the face of MTV's \"Choose or Lose\" campaign, which focused on encouraging young adults to vote. The campaign received a Peabody Award in May, 1992. She interviewed Hillary Clinton, Anita Hill and Yasser Arafat, among others. She is mentioned in the 1998 film \"American History X\", and also had a cameo role in the film \"The Cable Guy\" as herself. Clips of her interviews with Tupac Shakur were included in the 2003 documentary film \"\".\n\nAfter working in television news, Soren spent a year studying art and photography at Stanford University.\n\nOver the past ten years, her projects have been published in \"The New York Times Magazine\", \"Canteen\", \"Vanity Fair\", \"McSweeney's\", \"Sports Illustrated\", and \"New York\", among others. Public collections include the Los Angeles Country Museum of Art, Oakland Museum of California, the New Orleans Museum of Art, Pier 24 Photography, Transformer Station in Ohio and the Ogden Museum of Southern Art in Louisiana.\n\nIn 2012, her show \"Running\" appeared at the Indianapolis Museum of Contemporary Art. A three-year-long project shot in 15 states, as well as in Mexico and Canada, \"Running\" featured dramatically lit, isolated individuals running in everyday settings.\n\nIn 2015, Soren's exhibition \"Fantasy Life\" debuted at the Kopeikin Gallery in Los Angeles and traveled to the San Francisco Bay Area. The exhibition showcased images of 21 baseball players selected for the Oakland A's 2002 draft class, whom Soren followed for thirteen years until they were out of baseball. Later that same year, Soren exhibited \"Panic Beach\", a photographic series of rugged, powerful waves along coastlines all over the world.\n\nIn 2017, the Aperture Foundation published a selection of Soren's \"Fantasy Life\" photographs, with text by Dave Eggers. The book was released just prior to a major exhibition at San Francisco City Hall also titled \"Fantasy Life\", which displayed over 180 of Soren's images. Also in summer of 2017, EUQINOMprojects in San Francisco exhibited work from the \"Surface Tension\" series, in which all images were photographed using 8 x 10 sheets of film. The gallery also showcases photographs from her project, \"As Far As You Know\".\n\nSoren married author Michael Lewis in 1997. They have three children: Quinn, Dixie, and Walker.\n\n"}
{"id": "2007594", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007594", "title": "Area code 868", "text": "Area code 868\n\nThe area code 868 is assigned to Trinidad and Tobago, a member of the North American Numbering Plan (NANP). The telephone numbering plan for the country is known as the National Numbering Plan. It is part of a system used for assigning telephone numbers in Trinidad and Tobago, and functions as a part of the North American Numbering Plan (NANP). It is regulated by the Telecommunications Authority of Trinidad and Tobago, which holds responsibility for telecommunications in the country.\n\nDue to a long established affiliation with NANP, phone numbers in the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago are often styled as \"(868) NXX-xxxx\". However, the International Telecommunications Union's standards such as E.164 and E.123 both strongly advocate the inclusion of a \"+1\" prefix to indicate \"868\" is a part of the NANP.\n\nArea code 868 (\"TNT\") was created during a split from the original Area code 809 with permissive dialing beginning 1 June 1997. \nWith the end of permissive dialing on 31 May 1998, all calls placed to the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago required the use of the +1 868 prefix.\n\nWhen calling Trinidad and Tobago from elsewhere in the North American Numbering Plan (e.g., from the United States or Canada), callers dial as if undertaking regular ten-digit dialing within those countries. Callers must simply dial 1 + 868 + seven digit phone number.\n\nWhen calling to Trinidad and Tobago from outside the NANP (e.g., from the United Kingdom), callers must dial their international dialing prefix followed by 1 to access the North American Numbering Plan. For example, a call placed from the United Kingdom would be dialled as 00 + 1 + 868 + local seven digit phone number.\n\nWhen placing a phone call from Trinidad and Tobago, also known as HNPA (home numbering plan area) dialing, callers simply use seven-digit dialing (i.e. dialing the last seven digits of the phone number).\n\nWhen calling other places in the North American Numbering Plan, callers dial as if undertaking regular ten-digit dialing in those countries. Callers dial 1 + NPA area code + seven digit phone number.\n\nThough usually toll-free when dialed from the US, not all 1-800 phone numbers are toll-free when dialed from Trinidad and Tobago, and may be treated as a toll call.\n\nWhen calling to areas outside the NANP (e.g., the United Kingdom), callers dial 011 + country calling code + phone number. In the case of the UK, a user would dial 011 + 44 + UK phone number.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2007595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007595", "title": "When It All Comes Down", "text": "When It All Comes Down\n\nWhen It All Comes Down is an EP by the rock band Home Grown, released in 2004 by Drive-Thru Records. It was the band's final release, as they went on \"indefinite hiatus\" the following year. The EP found the band moving away from the humor-filled pop punk of their previous releases and towards more heartfelt and emotional subject matter. Bassist Adam Lohrbach would carry these stylistic elements over to his subsequent band New Years Day and continue to expand on them.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2007596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007596", "title": "Moonee Valley Racecourse", "text": "Moonee Valley Racecourse\n\nMoonee Valley Racecourse is a horse-racing track in Moonee Ponds, Melbourne, Victoria Australia.\n\nMoonee Valley Racecourse was established in 1883 by William Samuel (W.S.) Cox, who purchased a farm the previous year belonging to John F. Feehan for the purpose of establishing a racetrack. Being entirely freehold land owned by a private club, this separates Moonee Valley from other Melbourne racecourse such as Caulfield and Flemington. Expansion of the racecourse facilities occurred in the 1960s, funded by compensation for land acquired for the construction of the adjacent Tullamarine Freeway. In the 1970s harness racing moved to the Valley, when night trotting relocated from the Royal Melbourne Showgrounds.\n\n"}
{"id": "2007608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007608", "title": "Deputy Prime Minister of India", "text": "Deputy Prime Minister of India\n\nThe Deputy Prime Minister of India (IAST: \"Bhārat kē Uppradhānamantrī\") is a member of the Union Council of Ministers in the Government of India. Not a constitutional office, it seldom carries any specific powers. A deputy prime minister usually also holds a cabinet portfolio such as home minister or finance minister. In the parliamentary system of government, the prime minister is treated as the \"first among equals\" in the cabinet; the position of deputy prime minister is used to bring political stability and strength within a coalition government or in times of national emergency, when a proper chain of command is necessary.\n\nThe office has since been only intermittently occupied, having been occupied for a little more than 11 years out of the 72 years since its inception. The first Deputy Prime Minister of India was Vallabhbhai Patel, who was also home minister in Jawaharlal Nehru's cabinet. The seventh and last deputy prime minister was L. K. Advani, who took on the role in addition to his home ministership from 2002 to 2004 in Atal Bihari Vajpayee's government. The current government does not have a Deputy Prime Minister.\n\nOn multiple occasions, proposals have arisen to make the post permanent, but without result. The same goes for the post of deputy chief minister at the state level.\n\nThe first deputy prime minister was Vallabhbhai Patel, who was also home minister in Jawaharlal Nehru's cabinet. He occupied the post for 3 years until his death in 1950. The post was vacant until Morarji Desai became the second deputy prime minister in 1967.\n\nL. K. Advani served as the seventh deputy prime minister in Atal Bihari Vajpayee's cabinet from 2002 to 2004. The post has been vacant since 2004.\n\nKeys\n\n"}
{"id": "2007618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007618", "title": "Revolution Revolución", "text": "Revolution Revolución\n\nRevolution Revolución is the debut album by the American nu metal band Ill Niño. It has sold over 375,000 copies in the United States.\n\n\"Q\" magazine gave the album 3 stars out of 5 and said, \"South American nu-metal with a strong Latin undercurrent... frontman Christian Marchado is equally adept at venting his spleen in English and Spanish.\" Allmusic gave the album 3 stars out of 5 and said, \"This is an excellent debut for fans who lean more to the cerebral side of modern metallic endeavors.\"\n\nAll songs by Cristian Machado, Marc Rizzo and Dave Chavarri.\n\nNotes:\n\n\nThe track \"Liar\" is played in the credits of the game \"Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter\" for the Xbox 360.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2007619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007619", "title": "National Agricultural Center and Hall of Fame", "text": "National Agricultural Center and Hall of Fame\n\nThe National Agricultural Center and Hall of Fame is a museum and educational facility in Bonner Springs, Kansas, United States. The group holds a congressional charter under Title 36 of the United States Code (issued in 1960). It is located east of K-7 and south of State Avenue (US-24, near 126th Street) next to the Sandstone Amphitheater and Kansas City Renaissance Festival. It is north of the Kansas Turnpike \"Bonner Springs\" exit, and about 1 miles west of the Kansas Speedway.\n\nThe Main Building built in 1963-64 includes:\n\nThe building opened in 1967. Much of the museum's 30,000 artifacts, including an extensive collection of farm implements, are housed there.\n\nThis recreation a rural village which opened in 1968 includes:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2007631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007631", "title": "AviSynth", "text": "AviSynth\n\nAviSynth is a frameserver program for Microsoft Windows developed by Ben Rudiak-Gould, Edwin van Eggelen, Klaus Post, Richard Berg, Ian Brabham and others. It is free software under GNU GPL license.\n\nAviSynth acts as a non-linear video editor controlled entirely by scripting (without a GUI). It emulates an AVI video file (or WAV audio file) as seen by the VFW downstream application, which is typically a media player, video editing software, or an encoder.\n\nAviSynth is built upon \"filters\", which are much like DirectShow filters, but with a different binary interface. Filter capabilities include cropping, deinterlacing, inverse telecine, working with still images, doing basic color grading, reducing video noise, and many other things. AviSynth also performs traditional video editing tasks like cutting, trimming and re-sequencing segments.\n\nFor example, consider the script \"myAvi.avs\" (just a plain text-file saved with the extension \"avs\")\n\nThis script file can be opened in most media players (such as Windows Media Player). The program will play the video file \"myAvi.avi\" cropped down to its top-left 320 pixels by 240 pixels and blurred by a small amount. Operations occur in sequential order, so the cropping occurs first, then the blurring.\n\nTechnically, AviSynth constructs a filter graph (like Microsoft GraphEdit but with added capabilities), controlled by \"scripts\" written in the AviSynth scripting language. Its functionality can be extended through the use of third-party filters known as plugins. An external plugin list is maintained at AviSynth Filter Collection.\n\nAviSynth is a frameserver – the calling program \"requests\" audio/video frames and the script \"serves\" them. The calling program can call frames in any order, allowing it to pause, jump forward or backward etc., just as with a physical file.\n\nThe scripting language is a dataflow language: a programming paradigm that describes a directed graph of the data flowing between operations. It lacks most procedural programming control structures, but containing many features familiar to programmers, including variables, distinct datatypes, conditionals, and complex expressions.\n\nThe language works primarily with the audio/video \"clip\" as a built-in data type. The clip is a complex structure with many attributes such as width, height and duration. The language also has several other more standard data types: \"int\", \"float\", \"bool\" and \"string\". These can be used to perform calculations, decisions, and write text such as subtitles to the video.\n\nThe script has a single \"return value\", which is the audio and video 'seen' by the program running the script. This is normally the last line of the script, but a return statement may be inserted at any point.\n\nThis example is a \"Hello World\" program.\n\nIf the above text is entered into a text file with the .avs extension, it can be opened in Windows Media Player or any of the other programs in the list below, and a video containing the words \"Hello, world!\" will be displayed.\n\nThe BlankClip function creates a new video. The parentheses at the end of the word are optional, since no arguments are being passed, but are given in this case to indicate it is a function and not a variable.\n\nThe Subtitle function draws the words \"Hello, world!\" on top of the previously-created blank video.\n\nAlthough both functions both accept many more arguments (for example, controlling the size and length of the blank video, and the positioning, font, and color of the subtitle), this example leaves them out; the functions use built-in default arguments.\n\nAvisynth uses syntactic sugar that makes simple scripts far easier to write: an implicit variable called Last. Without implicit variables, the above script would have to be written like this:\n\nor like this:\n\nExplicit clip variables are normally only used for functions involving more than one clip:\nThis example takes an actual video, applies some simple processing, and returns it to the output.\n\nThe AviSource function is used to load an AVI video from a real location. To open other media types, the DirectShowSource function could be used instead. ReduceBy2 divides the vertical and horizontal size of the video in half, and GreyScale removes all color information.\n\nAviSynth filters work in many RGB and YUV color spaces to allow all kinds of video input and output. Certain functions only work on specific color spaces, requiring conversion – for example, most videos are distributed in a YUV color space, but most color correction is done in one of the RGB spaces. A color-correcting script might look like this:\n\nThe AviSynth scripting language allows for users to define their own functions.\n\nThis is an example of a function that allows you to dissolve from one clip to another without damaging interlacing lines. \n\nAviSynth 3.0 was a complete rewrite of AviSynth 2.x, and aimed to overcome the limitations of AviSynth 2.x.\nAdding improvements such as an abstracted color space model, in which new color spaces (including two with 45-bit depth) could be supported through a plug-in mechanism, better cache management for better performance, and using Ruby rather than the homegrown language employed in current versions.\n\nAviSynth 3.0 was to be available for other operating systems than Windows, instead relying on GStreamer, extending support to platforms such as Linux, Mac OS X and BSD. Development has been stalled since August 2007.\n\nThe most current and modern version of AviSynth today is AviSynth+, originally a fork of the official AviSynth 2.xx, but AviSynth+ has since gained widespread recognition and has become the go-to implementation. It rewrote most of the original AviSynth code, and introduced long-sought features such as 64-bit support, multithreading, deep color spaces, support for recent compilers, new scripting constructs (new control-flow constructs such as loops), and increased performance in many areas. At the same time it retained 100% compatibility to the AviSynth 2.5/2.6 series, both for filters and host applications. At the time of writing (2019-05), it is also actively maintained.\n\nAviSynth 2.xx may be used under operating systems other than Windows through the use of Wine. To work on scripts VirtualDub/VirtualDubMod can be used as on Windows. To interface between AviSynth under Wine and for example FFmpeg running on a Linux host, Avs2YUV can be used. Avs2YUV is a Windows command line program that is run under Wine and renders the output of an AviSynth script to stdout that is then piped to FFmpeg. Avs2YUV also supports writing to a named pipe.\n\nThere is a Linux port of AviSynth called AvxSynth.\n\nIn addition, several programs have now been created which accept \"only\" AviSynth scripts as input - thereby simplifying the programs themselves but giving users the full power of AviSynth for input.\n\nThere are also several batch encoding applications that tie together AviSynth with command line audio and video encoders and muxers to provide an all-in-one, modular, customizable video encoding application. MeGUI is an example of this kind of application.\n\nAlthough AviSynth scripts are meant to be easily opened in simple text editing programs, there are several editors meant especially for editing AviSynth scripts such as AvsPMod.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2007633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007633", "title": "Tech Triumph", "text": "Tech Triumph\n\n\"Tech Triumph\" is the fight song of Virginia Tech. It was composed in 1919 by Wilfred Pete Maddux (class of 1920) and Mattie Eppes (Boggs).\n\nThe song is noted for beginning with the opening notes of \"Reveille\"--a nod to Tech's past as an all-male military school. \n\nWilfred Preston (\"Pete\") Maddux, a trombone and baritone player in the Virginia Tech Regimental Band (member of the band from the Fall of 1917 to 1919), jointly composed \"Tech Triumph\" (1985 recording - link updated 2008) in 1919 along with Mattie Walton Eppes (Boggs). Mattie Eppes was a neighbor of Pete in his hometown of Blackstone, Virginia. When he was home, Pete would often play violin with Mattie accompanying him on the piano. One evening in the summer of 1919, Pete asked her to help him compose a fight song for VPI. She played the tune and Pete wrote out the score and the words for two verses in a single evening. Pete Maddux is not listed in the yearbook with the band after 1919. Miss Eppes later married John C. Boggs, Superintendent of Randolph-Macon Military Academy.\n\nThe song was first performed on Saturday, November 1, 1919, before the football game between V.P.I. and Washington and Lee University. The issue of the university newspaper noted:\n\nIn a letter to \"The Virginia Tech\" published on Dec. 10, 1919, Maddux expressed his appreciation to the student body.\n\nA strain of the Bliss Triumph potato developed for its disease resistance by Virginia Tech researchers in 1926 and was named Tech Triumph.\n\n"}
{"id": "2007638", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007638", "title": "Violently Happy", "text": "Violently Happy\n\n\"Violently Happy\" is a song by Icelandic singer Björk, released as the fifth and final single from her album \"Debut\" in 1994. The song was written by Björk and Nellee Hooper, who helped her in writing and producing most of the album. The lyrics speak of Björk feeling a love so intense that it is actually dangerous, requesting that her lover return to \"calm her down\". Musically, it's an upbeat song. \"Violently Happy\" peaked at #13 in the UK and reached #4 on the US dance charts.\n\nThe song was released in March 1994 and received positive reviews from music critics, which praised its musicality and its dance-pop appeal. The song received an accompanying music video which was shot by Jean-Baptiste Mondino, in which Björk and many guest appearances (including a then unknown Norman Reedus) dance frantically in a kind of asylum while they're cutting out their hair or parts of dolls. Björk performed the song live on TV a few times, including on \"Top of the Pops\".\n\nAfter leaving The Sugarcubes, Björk traveled to London where she began having contacts with electronic music, and that inspired her to change her musical style from the pop-rock sounds of the Sugarcubes to a more alternative and electronic style of music. \"Violently Happy\" was released as the last single from \"Debut\" and demonstrates this musical shift. Björk explained:\n\nBjörk further said that the song was inspired by her living in Reykjavík and being far away from her lover: \"For me, it's quite a brave thing. It's like putting your diary out for everyone to read. Of course, I didn't put everything in, I very carefully edited it. I'm very good with scissors\". The lyrics are autobiographical as Björk stated: \"It's just the same as if you go out with a mate and get drunk and get to the 'truth' stage and you wake up next day and think 'fuck, what did I say?'. Sometimes you feel fine, sometimes you feel embarrassed, sometimes you feel a friend has told you something they shouldn't have. I think our instincts know when you've given too much\".\n\n\"Violently Happy\" is an upbeat track influenced by techno. Its genres range from dance to synth-pop. The song begins with a nearly a cappella section, in which Björk sings the line \"Since I met you/this small town/hasn't got room\", underscored only by ambient sounds. When Björk continue the verse \"For my/big feelings\" percussion starts to play and lead into a house influenced score. The song is dominated by techno grooves mixed with percussions and drums. After Björk finishes the second refrain, a funk-rock oriented interlude starts, juxtaposed with repeating Björk vocals.\n\nPortions of the melody are influenced by, if not directly lifted from, Björk's earlier composition \"I'm Hungry\" from The Sugarcubes' album \"Stick Around for Joy\".\n\n\"Violently Happy\" received generally positive reviews from music critics. In particular, Simon Reynolds of The New York Times praised the song generally \"The title of “Violently Happy” captures the Björk effect perfectly: a gush and rush of euphoria, a tidal wave of oceanic feeling. Over the song’s brisk house beats, Björk stammers as she struggles to express feelings of excitement so intense she seems on the brink of leaping out of her skin: “I’m driving my car too fast with ecstatic music on/I’m daring people to jump off roofs with me.” In the end, she and Mr. Hooper resort to studio wizardry to gesture at inexpressible feelings, sampling one syllable and turning it into a stuttering vocal tic\". The Daily Telegraph's journalist Emily Bearn noticed that \"Violently Happy\" finds her making guttural noises at the sea: \"I tip-toe down to the shore/Stand by the ocean/Make it roar at me/And I roar back\".\n\nThe song was defined \"bittersweet\" by Heather Phares of Allmusic, and \"insanely addictive\" by Sean McCarthy of The Daily Vault, which also deemed its title as \"one of the best song titles of all time\". Brantley Bardin of Details commented that \"Songs like “Violently Happy” summed up a worldview that put all its faith in emotional abandon instead of logic. “Too much cleverness,” says Björk, “is the worst disease in the world. It ruins everything. Give us a laugh—make us happy\".\n\nThe music video was directed by Jean-Baptiste Mondino. To shoot it, Björk flew to Los Angeles in January 1994 and she found herself involved in the 1994 Northridge earthquake, and as such the shooting was postponed until the next day. Nettie Walker, Björk co-manager, recalled the event and described Björk's peculiar behavior: \"When she did the video for \"Violently Happy\" in LA, she was there in the middle of the earthquake. She described it like, a huge rumbling, deep in your stomach, which is exactly Björk, that she found it a brilliant rather than frightening experience. Everyone was trying to get hold of her to see if she was OK, but she had gone to the video shoot, dead on time, ready to start. That’s how Björk is, committed to doing something... She’s into this magpie mentality.\" and this was further confirmed by Mondino, who added: \"She said she was so happy to have experienced the earthquake, and on top of that she didn’t have her son with her so she was freer to experience it without fear... For me she is an iceberg, we only see a little tip of it\".\n\nThe video starts with a man, seemingly with white hair, shaking his head frantically in a padded room of a mental institute, where the entire video takes place. Björk appears in a white dress resembling an open straitjacket with pieces of hair surrounding her. Various scenes are intermingled: a girl seems to have cut down the hair of a doll to resemble hers, while various models look into the camera, some with scissors, others with dolls.\n\nAs the chorus starts, a patient begins to cut his hair with an electric razor, and Björk herself appears to cut her hair with scissors. Sounds of snipping of scissors are overlaid on the track. During one scene, Björk carries a teddy bear; while the video continues and the patients dance and caress their dolls or cut their hair, Björk disembowels the bear, removing all the foam rubber from it. The patients keep on dancing and acting emotionally throughout the room, and the white hair of the patient from the first scene is revealed to be shaving soap as he shaves his head with a razor. The video ends with a patient pulling a string from a doll, which garbledly pronounces \"I'm the baby\". This sound sample and all of this doll's samples are from the Disney show \"Dinosaurs\".\n\nThe video received lukewarm reviews from critics. Charles Taylor of Salon.com stated that \"Jean-Baptiste Mondino’s \"Violently Happy\", is what most people mean when they talk about how bad videos can be, as cold and pretentious and humorless as the worst fashion photography\".\n\nMTV found the video a bit too violent so when they showed the video it received a formal warning from the Independent Television Commission.\n\nBjörk performed the song in a few TV appearances. On February 12, 1994, she performed the song in the French show \"Nulle Part Ailleurs\", and on March 17, 1994, she performed \"Violently Happy\" on Top of the Pops. She further performed it on MTV show 3 From 1, along \"Venus as a Boy\". The song was part of Björk MTV Unplugged performance, which was released on her DVD \"MTV Unplugged / Live\" and on \"Debut Live\", included in \"Live Box\"\n\nThe song was performed during her first three tours. The performance during the Debut Tour was released on \"Vessel\", where she wears a dress similar to the one wore in the music video. The performance of the song during the Post Tour, where \"Violently Happy\" was usually the encore was heavily praised by critics. Nick Coleman of The Independent stated that during \"Violently Happy\" \"Björk formed a stubby pencil shape and bounced herself silly\". During its review of Björk's performance at The Academy, MTV Online complimented the singer's energy and wrote that \"during \"Violently Happy\", I thought maybe someone might have snuck something into the coffee I had before the show\", on a similar note, Barry Walters of The San Francisco Examiner stated that \"a relatively low-key track like \"Violently Happy\" was turned into the evening’s pounding peak\".\n\nIts performance during the Homogenic Tour was praised by James Sullivan of the San Francisco Chronicle, who wrote that \"As the string section sat motionless during the dance track \"Violently Happy\", Björk raced back and forth in bare feet to the syncopated thump. She’s an irrepressible dust devil, a former child star who knows how to command attention.\"\n\n\"For a complete list of official releases :\" \"Official Björk's Discography at 77island\"<br>\n\"For a complete list of releases :\" \"Discogs Violently Happy master release page\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2007641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007641", "title": "Crucify (song)", "text": "Crucify (song)\n\n\"Crucify\" is a song by American singer-songwriter and musician Tori Amos. It was released as the fifth single from her debut studio album \"Little Earthquakes\", on May 12, 1992, by Atlantic Records in North America and on June 8 by EastWest Records in the UK.\n\nThe song served as the fifth single from the album \"Little Earthquakes\". It was released as an EP in the US and as a single in Europe and Australia. The song has been covered by Sharon den Adel, vocalist of Within Temptation, and Nolwenn Leroy, French singer.\n\nThe EP version included a single remix, famous cover versions and \"Winter,\" which was released earlier as a single from the album. It sold 450,000 copies in the US according to Soundscan as of 2005, coming close to a Gold certification. Although the EP sold extremely well, it failed to chart on the Billboard 200. The length of this EP is 20:50.\n\nThe UK CD single included the songs \"Here. In My Head\" and \"Mary\" which were B-sides of song \"Crucify\" and alternate mix of song \"Crucify\".\nIn the UK EP Limited Edition included live versions of songs:\"Crucify\", \"Little Earthquakes\", \"Mother\" and \"Precious Things\".\n\n\n\n\n\nTori Amos performed \"Crucify\" on Late Night with David Letterman in May, 1992, and on \"CBS This Morning\" on September 9, 1992. She also played it on \"The Tonight Show with Jay Leno\" on January 13, 1993, along with the song \"Winter.\" Additionally, she played \"Crucify\" live on MTV in 1992, as well as on Top of the Pops.\n\nThe \"Crucify\" video, directed by Cindy Palmano (photographer and video director) and Atlantic Records, was released in 1992 as well. It was shot using the radio edit of \"Crucify\" that can be found on the \"Crucify\" EP and single release, but the version used on Tori's 2006 \"Fade to Red\" 2DVD set is an edited version of the remastered track that is found on the compilation \"Tales of a Librarian\". It includes images of Tori at the piano shot using overhead cameras, twin Toris who sing together at a counter, clothing \"reminiscent of Anne Boleyn,\" and shots of Tori climbing into a bathtub fully dressed, then dancing in the wet dress.\n\nCindy Palmano has said that Atlantic Records finished the video because \"I took it to a certain stage and then the record company wanted to edit it in a different way.\" Yet she approves of the bathtub sequence: \"I like when she steps into the bath and comes out of the bath. It all looks really Hitchcock, I love it.\" (Palmano also directed the videos \"Silent All These Years,\" \"Winter,\" \"China\" and \"Pretty Good Year,\" this last one from Amos' second album, \"Under the Pink\".)\n\nThe music video can be found on \"Little Earthquakes\", \"\" and \"Fade to Red: Video Collection\".\n\nIn 2003, Tori Amos released the compilation album \"Tales of a Librarian\", which included remastered versions of many of her most popular songs. The original LP version of \"Crucify\" was one of them.\n\nAmos has performed \"Crucify\" differently live in recent years, with the verses being performed slower and with some degree of repetition. One example of how she plays it now can be found on the \"Welcome to Sunny Florida\" DVD.\n\n"}
{"id": "2007649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007649", "title": "Frespañol", "text": "Frespañol\n\nFrespañol (more commonly \"frañol\" or \"fragnol\"), is a portmanteau of the words and , which mean French and Spanish mixed together, usually in informal settings. This example of code-switching is a mixture between French and Spanish, almost always in speech, but may be used in writing occasionally.\n\nSuch code-switching may be used or has been used in places where both languages meet, for example in Equatorial Guinea, among Haitians in the Dominican Republic, by first-generation Spaniards in France, or Latin American community in Montreal, Canada. This code-switching has historical and current presence in North, Central and South America.\n\nHistorically, the Isleños in Louisiana were also exposed to and accustomed to living with both languages, as were numerous French emigrant communities across Latin America (e.g. French Argentines), whose descendants have overwhelmingly adopted Spanish.\n\nDuring World War II many French immigrant communities flourished in the Americas, maintaining frañol a historically and currently observable example of code-switching in English, Spanish, and French-speaking countries.\n\nFrespañol forms part of a structure of sociolinguistics, it is a social and cultural code born from the contact of French and Spanish speakers. In its early days, the Frespañol was used in individual form meaning there was no set form to follow, everyone used their own variant of it. Now, it is more commonly used amongst the first generation of immigrants who utilize it more so when speaking Spanish. Calques are introduced by bilinguals, switching from one language to another words are borrowed. For example, in this phrase in French \"Je m'assome à la fenêtre” we see the spanish word \"asomarse\" adapting to the sentence. These code changes are adapted to the context of the speaker. Some ways that the two languages are implemented together is sometimes minute. Looking through the chart, The word for cake in \"Fragnol\", gató, is predominately french based such as other words listed. But, the thing that makes it more in tune with Spanish is the uses of the accents and the stress when pronouncing the word. Some other words such as dèpanor is also more alike to the french word for store, but the ending or pronunciation of the words can go through a morphological change and have more Spanish tones and pronunciations, or vice versa. \n\nThe use of Frespañol is often reflective of a minority group with two cultural identities regarding language. Similar to Spanglish, the hybrid language of Frespañol incorporates French and Spanish as a subset of both languages, which then has created a separate individuality and selfhood of heritages and cultural backgrounds. This often helps individuals of Frespa\"ñ\"ol with their identification of either group, or both at the same time while creating a separate identify of their own. As with Spanglish, this association allows for speakers to code-switch and also implement heritage, with the ability to shift when it is needed most and depending on environment. Apart from code-switching and creating a subset of the languages used, it allows for a separate identify in both heritage and cultural. This dual identity is reflected in social media and other platforms.\n\nAs the hybrid language of Frespañol grows and gains a prominent recognition, access to it has been made available in audio and online formats. \n\nThis identification and association to Frespanol (Fragnol) allows for identification of mistakes from non Frespanol speakers and visibility to inclusion or exclusion to be able to identify as a Fragnol speaker. Common example mistakes include taking the wrong word due to its similarity in one language and the assumption it translates the same with the other. For example: \"Me exprimire\" to mean, \"I express myself\", as the French translation is \"m'exprimer\". However, in standard Spanish, \"exprimire\" is translated to: squeezing. It is understood that Frespanol speakers would not make this mistake and be aware of the appropriate phrase to use.\n\nFrespañol is an acronym of French (Frances) and Spanish (Español), Fragnol in French. This dialect is the effect of a blend of two cultures. It began during the 20th century hundreds of thousands of Spaniards migrated to France in search of better living conditions. It first began with men migrating to France and then later on they would migrate their families into the country. It should also be noted that the people from Spain that migrated to France did not all pick up the French language. Post WWI France needed to be rebuilt, which paved way to a lot of job opportunities for the Spaniards in France.The spaniards had their own communities in cities such as Paris, Toulouse, Bordeaux and Lyon, where they spoke their mother tongue. The rise and development of Frespañol was in 1960s-1970's. The Spanish workers knew very little French and the French employers knew very little Spanish, regardless they had to communicate with each other, that's when Frespañol surged naturally and it was commonly found used with people working everyday jobs such as maids, construction workers and in the automotive sector. The people that spoke it were typically from lower class communities.\n\nThe main geographic boundary where Frespañol first presented itself was along the border of Spain and France. As mentioned previously in the page, the initial flow of Spanish immigrants to France from the beginning of the 20th century up until the 1960s–70s occurred for economic reasons and was the origin for this hybrid language. These migrations were the primary source for Frespañol, originating with the Spanish incorporating their language of origin with that of their new home country. The migrations caused an incline in the merge between the languages, resulting in the creation of this new culture for people who lived through and could share their similar language experiences. As the Spanish working class migrated deeper into France, Frespañol begun to appear in more populated cities, like Paris\n\n"}
{"id": "2007667", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007667", "title": "If I Was Your Girlfriend", "text": "If I Was Your Girlfriend\n\n\"If I Was Your Girlfriend\" is the second single from American musician Prince's 1987 double album \"Sign o' the Times\". The song was a hit in the United Kingdom but was only a minor hit in America. It was originally from the \"Camille\" project of 1986, which was to be released under the guise of Prince's alter ego named Camille. The song is delivered from an androgynous male perspective to a woman, wherein Prince explores the possibilities of a more intimate relationship if he were his lover's platonic girlfriend. \"Trouser Press\" names the song as one of the album's highlights, noting that it \"redefines a relationship in a surprisingly mature way.\" It is believed that \"If I Was Your Girlfriend\" deals with the jealousy Prince felt at the close bond shared between then girlfriend/fiancée Susannah Melvoin with her twin sister Wendy.\n\nMusically, the song features Prince's pitched-up, androgynous vocals over a sparse bass and drum machine pattern, punctuated by a keyboard line. The opening seconds include a sound collage that includes an orchestra tuning up, a salesman and a sample of Felix Mendelssohn's \"Wedding March\". According to engineer Susan Rogers, a rare technical error on her part led to distortion—albeit only on certain words. As recounted in Alex Hahn's book \"Possessed: The Rise and Fall of Prince\", Rogers thought Prince \"was going to rip my head off\" for the mistake. Yet, after hearing the playback, Prince loved the effect, which is featured on the released version.\n\nThe song was released on May 6, 1987, and reached number 67 on the US \"Billboard\" Hot 100. It was more successful in the UK, reaching number 20.\n\n7\" single\n\n12\" single\n\nPrince – Composer, Arranger, Producer\n\nThe B-side to the track was another \"Camille\" track, \"Shockadelica\". The track was actually written in response to an album of the same name by former Time member, Jesse Johnson. Prince heard Johnson's album before its release, and commented that a great album should have a great title track. Johnson disagreed, so Prince recorded the track and had it played on a Minneapolis radio station before the release of Johnson's album. The public perception would be that Johnson was copying Prince's idea, and this caused tension between Johnson and Prince.\n\nWhen the \"Camille\" project was scrapped in favor of \"Crystal Ball\", \"Shockadelica\" again made the cut, but was deleted from the track list when the set was trimmed to \"Sign \"☮\" the Times\". The track was released as a B-side, and later on \"The Hits/The B-Sides\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2007676", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007676", "title": "Ring oscillator", "text": "Ring oscillator\n\nA ring oscillator is a device composed of an odd number of NOT gates in a ring, whose output oscillates between two voltage levels, representing \"true\" and \"false\". The NOT gates, or inverters, are attached in a chain and the output of the last inverter is fed back into the first.\n\nBecause a single inverter computes the logical NOT of its input, it can be shown that the last output of a chain of an odd number of inverters is the logical NOT of the first input. The final output is asserted a finite amount of time after the first input is asserted and the feedback of the last output to the input causes oscillation.\n\nA circular chain composed of an even number of inverters cannot be used as a ring oscillator. The last output in this case is the same as the input. However, this configuration of inverter feedback can be used as a storage element and it is the basic building block of static random access memory or SRAM.\n\nThe stages of the ring oscillator are often differential stages, that are more immune to external disturbances. This renders available also non-inverting stages. A ring oscillator can be made with a mix of inverting and non-inverting stages, provided the total number of inverting stages is odd. The oscillator period is in all cases equal to twice the sum of the individual delays of all stages.\n\nA real ring oscillator only requires power to operate. Above a certain threshold voltage, oscillations begin spontaneously. To increase the frequency of oscillation, two methods are commonly used. Firstly, making the ring from a smaller number of inverters results in a higher frequency of oscillation, with about the same power consumption. Secondly, the applied voltage may be increased. In circuits where this method can be applied, it reduces the propagation delay through the chain of stages, increasing both the frequency of the oscillation and the current consumed. The maximum permissible voltage applied to the circuits limits the speed of a given oscillator.\n\nTo understand the operation of a ring oscillator, one must first understand gate delay. In a physical device, no gate can switch instantaneously. In a device fabricated with MOSFETs, for example, the gate capacitance must be charged before current can flow between the source and the drain. Thus, the output of every inverter in a ring oscillator changes a finite amount of time after the input has changed. From here, it can be easily seen that adding more inverters to the chain increases the total gate delay, reducing the frequency of oscillation.\n\nThe ring oscillator is a member of the class of time delay oscillators. A time-delay oscillator consists of an inverting amplifier with a delay element between the amplifier output and its input. The amplifier must have a gain greater than 1 at the intended oscillation frequency. Consider the initial case where the amplifier input and output voltages are momentarily balanced at a stable point. A small amount of noise can cause the amplifier output to rise slightly. After passing through the time-delay element, this small output voltage change will be presented to the amplifier input. The amplifier has a negative gain of greater than 1, so the output will change in the direction opposite to this input voltage. It will change by an amount larger than the input value, for a gain greater than 1. This amplified and reversed signal propagates from the output through the time-delay and back to the input where it is amplified and inverted again. The result of this sequential loop is a square-wave signal at the amplifier output with the period of each half of the square wave equal to the time delay. The square wave will grow until the amplifier output voltage reaches its limits, where it will stabilize. A more exact analysis will show that the wave that grows from the initial noise may not be square as it grows, but it will become square as the amplifier reaches its output limits.\n\nThe ring oscillator is a distributed version of the delay oscillator. The ring oscillator uses an odd number of inverters to give the effect of a single inverting amplifier with a gain of greater than one. Rather than having a single delay element, each inverter contributes to the delay of the signal around the ring of inverters, hence the name ring oscillator. Adding pairs of inverters to the ring increases the total delay and thereby decreases the oscillator frequency. Changing the supply voltage changes the delay through each inverter, with higher voltages typically decreasing the delay and increasing the oscillator frequency. Vratislav describes some methods of frequency-stability and power consumption improving of the CMOS ring-oscillator.\n\nIf 't' represents the time-delay for a single Inverter and 'n' represents the number of Inverters in the Inverter chain, then the frequency of oscillation is given by\n\nformula_1.\n\nPeriod of ring oscillator vibrates in a random manner T=T+T' where T' is a random value. In high-quality circuits, the range of T' is relatively small compared to T. This variation in oscillator period is called \"jitter\".\nLocal temperature effects cause the period of a ring oscillator to wander above and below the long-term average period.\nWhen the local silicon is cold, the propagation delay is slightly shorter, causing the ring oscillator to run at a slightly higher frequency, which eventually raises the local temperature. When the local silicon is hot, the propagation delay is slightly longer, causing the ring oscillator to run at a slightly lower frequency, which eventually lowers the local temperature. So, the frequency of a silicon ring oscillator will generally be stable, when the ambient temperature is constant and factors of heat transfer from the device to the ambient environment do not vary. Note, however, that electronic materials other than silicon may not have the same positive relationship between temperature and propagation delay; if the relationship is negative, the frequency could be unstable (and thermal runaway is even a possibility, in theory).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2007685", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007685", "title": "Patrick Kayemba", "text": "Patrick Kayemba\n\nPatrick Kayemba is a Ugandan politician. He is a member of the African Union's Economic, Social and Cultural Council representing East Africa . He is also Chairman of the Rural Economy and Agriculture Committee, one of the ten Sectoral Cluster Committees of the African Union.\n"}
{"id": "2007696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007696", "title": "Shane Stone", "text": "Shane Stone\n\nShane Leslie Stone (born 25 September 1950) is an Australian political figure. From 26 May 1995 to 8 February 1999 he was Chief Minister of the Northern Territory, representing the Country Liberal Party.\n\nFirst elected to the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly Electoral division of Port Darwin as a member of the Country Liberal Party (CLP) in 1990, Stone held several portfolios, including Attorney-General, Education and the Arts, Employment and Training, Mines and Energy, Industries and Development, and Asian Relations and Trade. In late 1997 Stone attracted sustained criticism when as the First Law Officer being the Attorney-General he appointed himself a Queen's Counsel.\n\nStone was the Chief Minister during the referendum for statehood for the Northern Territory in 1998. Electors were asked to vote on whether the Northern Territory should become a state with a constitution that had been approved by a Constitutional Assembly. A bipartisan committee of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly had recommended a constitution and that it should be further considered by an elected Constitutional Assembly. The CLP Government put forward a different constitution to a non-elected Constitutional Assembly. The referendum failed narrowly. The following year Stone resigned as Chief Minister; 18 months later the CLP under Denis Burke lost the next Territory election after 27 years in power. In 1999 he became the federal President of the Liberal Party of Australia, and was appointed a Commander of the Order of Kinabalu by the Malaysian state of Sabah.\n\nIn 2001 he wrote a memo, later leaked to the press, that suggested that the government of John Howard was seen as \"mean and tricky\". The ensuing controversy quickly mushroomed, with Stone and Howard both being accused of leaking the memo.\n\nStone is the Executive Chairman of the APAC Group of Companies. He was the National Chairman of the Duke of Edinburgh's International Award - Australia from 2012 to 2018. He is currently an Award Ambassador. Awarded the Centenary Medal in 2001, Stone was appointed a Companion of the Order of Australia in the 2006 Queen's Birthday Honours for his service to politics, industry, and bi-lateral relations between Australia and the Asia-Pacific region. In 2019 Shane was presented by Prince Edward KG KCVO, the Gold Distinguished Service Medal, The Duke of Edinburgh's International Award – Australia, this being the highest level of recognition made by the Award in Australia.\n"}
{"id": "2007717", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007717", "title": "Stand Up Speak Up", "text": "Stand Up Speak Up\n\nStand Up Speak Up was a Europe-wide campaign that was launched in January 2005 by the French Football player Thierry Henry following an increase in reports of racist incidents in football across Europe. The campaign started when the former spanish footballer (soccerplayer) Luis Aragonés, at this time choach of the spanish nationalteam, said these words towards his player and Henrys teammate José Antonio Reyes:\" You will show this black shi* (Thierry Henry) that you´re better than him\". That led to Nike creating the \"Stand up speak up\" campaign. Together with Nike and other top European players like Rio Ferdinand, Carles Puyol and so on, he protests against this continuing problem inviting football fans to voice their opposition to racism. \nThe symbol of the campaign is two interlocked wristbands, one black, and one white. About 5 million of these wristbands have been sold all over Europe. The wrist bands are no longer being sold and there is no intention to reproduce them, but they are still available on the internet. All the funds raised are passed on to a central Stand Up Speak Up fund that will look to support initiatives that aim to combat racism in football through a variety of programmes and initiatives, that raise awareness, challenge behaviour and strive to change attitudes. This successful campaign included footballers such as Thierry Henry, Rio Ferdinand, Wayne Rooney, Ronaldinho, Cristiano Ronaldo and Adriano. Stand up Speak claimed at the end in 2009 more than 6.5 million US dollars and spent them to 238 projects.\n\nControversy sparked when Gary Neville claimed Nike were only involved for commercial gain and not their anti-racism stance. This carried over into a match against Arsenal as Neville and Manchester United team mate Paul Scholes refused to wear the different anti racism tracksuit top that players from both sides wore. \n\n"}
{"id": "2007719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007719", "title": "Fred Cole (musician)", "text": "Fred Cole (musician)\n\nFrederick Lee Cole (August 28, 1948 – November 9, 2017) was an American rock singer and guitarist who played with several bands from the 1960s until his death, most notably The Lollipop Shoppe, Dead Moon, and Pierced Arrows. He was associated mainly with the garage punk genre though he was also influenced by hard rock, blues, country, and folk music. The majority of his recorded output was self-financed and independently released on his own record label.\n\nIn 1964, Cole began his recording career in Las Vegas with his band, the Lords, at the Teenbeat Club, releasing a single titled \"Ain't Got No Self-Respect.\" His next single, from 1965, was a promo-only called \"Poverty Shack\" b/w \"Rover,\" with a band named Deep Soul Cole.\n\nIn 1966 Cole's band The Weeds gained notice in garage rock circles, and their only single, a 1960s punk track called \"It's Your Time\" (b/w \"Little Girl\", Teenbeat Club Records), has become a collectors' favorite. The A-side appeared on one of the Nuggets anthologies. The band was promised an opening slot on a Yardbirds bill at the Fillmore in San Francisco, but on their arrival found that the venue hadn't heard of them.\n\nAngry at management and fearing the military draft, the band decided to head up to Canada, but ran out of gas in Portland, Oregon. There, they started playing at a club called the Folk Singer, where Kathleen \"Toody\" Conner worked. Cole and Toody soon fell in love and were married in 1967, although The Weeds' manager insisted they keep the marriage secret.\n\nAnother manager required The Weeds to change their name to The Lollipop Shoppe because he also managed The Seeds and thought the names were too similar, and to fit the current bubblegum trend (although their 1968 LP on UNI Records (a now-defunct subsidiary of MCA), titled \"Just Colour\", is more a mix of garage rock and the psychedelia of bands such as Love). The album and its single \"You Must Be a Witch\" didn't chart, but remain underground favorites. The band also released another single, \"Someone I Knew\" b/w \"Through My Window,\" played many shows in San Francisco with performers such as Janis Joplin and The Doors, and had two tracks on the soundtrack LP to the film \"Angels from Hell\".\n\nThe Lollipop Shoppe broke up in 1969, but reappeared as The Weeds with another single in 1971.\n\nFrustrated with the music business and still of draft age, Cole headed for Alaska with Toody and their two young children. They got as far as the Yukon, where they homesteaded for a year. Upon their return, Cole tried unsuccessfully to secure another record deal in Los Angeles. He settled in Portland and opened a musical equipment store called Captain Whizeagle's. Taking his musical career into his own hands, he formed the hard rock band Zipper and released an LP in 1975 on his and Toody's label, Whizeagle.\n\nCole's next band, King Bee, saw him playing guitar for the first time in addition to singing. A last-minute invitation to open for The Ramones introduced them to the punk sounds of the time. They released the \"Hot Pistol\" single on Whizeagle in 1978, but soon broke up. In an attempt to find a stable lineup, Cole taught Toody to play bass and they formed The Rats. Their self-titled debut was released in 1980 on Whizeagle. \"Intermittent Signals\" followed in 1981, and 1983 saw the release of the third LP, \"In a Desperate Red\". After losing three drummers, and tired of the macho direction the punk scene had taken, Cole disbanded The Rats and began an old-time country band called Western Front. They released only two singles, \"Orygun\" b/w \"Clementine\" and \"Stampede\" b/w \"Looking Back at Me\" in 1985, but they influenced many local punkers to develop an interest in country-rock and rockabilly.\n\nToody, who had occasionally performed with Western Front and recorded a single with them, rejoined Cole for another country-influenced project, The Range Rats, in 1986. Drummer Andrew Loomis auditioned for this band, but it didn't work out, so Cole and Toody carried on with a drum machine. In 1987, while returning from Reno (their favorite vacation spot), Cole and Toody decided they wanted to play rock 'n' roll again. They called Andrew Loomis, who was a better fit for this project, and Dead Moon was born.\n\nDead Moon's music is a blend of dark '60s garage with punk rock; It was described by Robert Christgau as sounding \"like the 13th Floor Elevators without the clinical dementia\". Their early records, \"In the Graveyard\", \"Unknown Passage\", and \"Defiance\", appeared on the band's own Tombstone Records, named for the music store Cole and Toody operated in Clackamas, Oregon. Cole mastered these records on a mono lathe from the 1950s that had been used for The Kingsmen's version of \"Louie Louie\". These releases helped them gain cult followings around the United States and in Europe, especially in Germany, home of their European record label Music Maniac.\n\nAfter releasing \"Dead Ahead\" and touring Europe, Dead Moon broke up in 2006, and, with a new drummer, Kelly Halliburton, Fred and Toody formed the band Pierced Arrows.\n\nIn 2004 U.S. documentary filmmaking couple (Jason Summers and Kate Fix) produced \"Unknown Passage: The Dead Moon Story\".\n\nFred Cole died in November 2017 at the age of 69, from liver disease.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2007720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007720", "title": "Udayadityavarman II", "text": "Udayadityavarman II\n\nUdayadityavarman II () ruled the Angkor Kingdom from 1050 to 1066 A.D. He was the successor of Suryavarman I but not his son; he descended from Yasovarman I's spouse.\n\nHe built the Baphuon Temple to honor the god Shiva, but some of the sculptures are dedicated to Buddha. He also completed the construction of the West Baray reservoir and built the West Mebon, a raised-earth island in the center.\n\nDuring his reign, several attempted rebellions, in 1051 and 1065, were crushed by his general Sangrama.\n\nThe Sdok Kak Thom temple, located near the present day Thai town of Aranyaprathet, was also constructed during his reign. The temple is perhaps most famous as the discovery site of a detailed inscription recounting the sequence of previous Khmer kings. The inscription stele is now part of the collection of the national museum in Bangkok.\n\nHe was succeeded by his younger brother Harshavarman III.\n\n"}
{"id": "2007726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007726", "title": "Wage curve", "text": "Wage curve\n\nThe wage curve is the negative relationship between the levels of unemployment and wages that arises when these variables are expressed in local terms. According to David Blanchflower and Andrew Oswald (1994, p. 5), the wage curve summarizes the fact that \"A worker who is employed in an area of high unemployment earns less than an identical individual who works in a region with low joblessness.\"\n\nOne way to understand the wage curve is as follows. The labour supply of each individual is positively correlated to wages, therefore the higher is the hourly wage offered, the more hours an individual is willing to work. However, there is a limit to which every person would be willing to sacrifice an hour of leisure or rest, for an hour's worth of wages. Let's say that X is the maximum number of hours a person can work, and $A is the minimum hourly wage rate he expects in return. Any wage $B, greater than $A, will increase the worker's daily wage without increasing the hours of work. So if you need more hours of work than X, you need to hire more people.\n\nSay you need to purchase Y hours of labour from the labour market. Let us assume that Y = 4X. This means that Y is four times as much as one labourer's maximum labour offer. If you pay $A an hour then you can hire 4 labourers to work for X hours each. However, depending on the labour market conditions, other options are open:\n\nSay that there are not very many jobs in the labour market, unemployment is high and a lot of people are under-employed (working much fewer than X hours). In this situation the going rate is likely to be lower than $A as it is very unlikely that an employee would be asked to work for X hours. You would save money by hiring more than 4 labourers with each of them working fewer than X hours.\n\nSay the labour market is tight and most people are already working X hours a day. It is very hard to find people who are not already earning $A an hour, and because of that you must match the money offer elsewhere in order to get someone to work for you. The wage level in this scenario would be higher than the earlier scenario.\n\nIn short, the lower unemployment is and the fewer laborers there are available, the higher the wages. The contrary is true when unemployment is high. This is the essence of the wage curve.\n\nIt is utilised to explain why within a country, some regions suffer worse unemployment than others. Labourers could, but, for whatever reasons, are unwilling to migrate from regions with high unemployment, low wage areas to low unemployment, high wage areas.\n\nOne of the reasons why unemployed labourers would not want to migrate to other areas with plenty of jobs is because of home-ownership. The worker might be deterred from moving because of the costs involved in selling off their home and moving. Blanchflower and Oswald have found that the unemployment rate is positively correlated to home-ownership rate in a cross country study.\n\nHowever recently some micro econometric evidence suggests that the relationship between home-ownership and unemployment is slightly more complicated. People who are employed are more likely to be able to afford a mortgage, and are therefore more likely to have bought their own home. The evidence indicates that the employed home-owners are less likely to become unemployed, and they are also more likely to be employed in jobs with high stability and therefore less likely to change jobs. The unemployed home-owners are more likely to find jobs within the local areas, and less likely to find jobs which would necessitate a move. The overall picture suggests that although home-owners are reluctant to move around, they are more often than not employed, and therefore not contributing to the unemployment rate.\n\n"}
{"id": "2007735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007735", "title": "Xenops", "text": "Xenops\n\nXenops is a genus in the bird family Furnariidae, the ovenbirds. The genus comprises three species of xenops, all of which are found in Mexico, Central America and South America, particularly in tropical rain forests.\n\nThey are small birds with a longish tail, a laterally flattened bill with an upturned tip (except in the slender-billed xenops), brown back and buff or rufous wing stripe. They forage for insects on bark, rotting stumps or bare twigs, moving mechanically in all directions on the trunk like a woodcreeper, but without using the tail as a prop.\n\nTogether with the distinct great xenops (\"Megaxenops parnaguae\"), this genus forms the tribe Xenopini, which based on some recent studies belongs in the woodcreeper and xenops subfamily Dendrocolaptinae, while others have found them to be part of the \"traditional\" ovenbirds. A 2013 found that they should be a family distinct from both.\n\nFormerly, the rufous-tailed xenops was placed in this genus, but it has been moved to the monotypic \"Microxenops\". The following species remain in the genus \"Xenops\":\n\n"}
{"id": "2007738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007738", "title": "Baháʼí divisions", "text": "Baháʼí divisions\n\nThe Baháʼí Faith has had challenges to its leadership, usually at the death of the head of the religion. The vast majority of Baháʼís have followed a line of authority from Baháʼu'lláh to ʻAbdu'l-Bahá to Shoghi Effendi to the Custodians to the Universal House of Justice. Sects diverging from this line of leadership have failed to attract a sizeable following. In this sense, there is only one \"major\" branch of the Baháʼí Faith, represented by at least 5 million adherents, whereas the groups that have broken away have either become extinct with time, or have remained very small in number, representing far less than 0.1% of all Baháʼís. Globally the Baháʼí community has maintained its unity. \n\nBaháʼí scriptures define a Lesser Covenant regarding succession which is intended to keep the Baháʼís unified. Claimants challenging the widely accepted successions of leadership are shunned by the majority group as Covenant-Breakers.\n\nA separate entry discusses the Baháʼí/Bábí split.\n\nBaháʼu'lláh remained in the Akka-Haifa area under house arrest until his death in 1892. According to the terms of his will, his eldest son ʻAbdu'l-Bahá was named the centre of authority; Mírzá Muhammad ʻAlí, the eldest son from Baháʼu'lláh's second wife, was assigned a secondary position.\n\nPursuant to his role as Centre of the Covenant, ʻAbdu'l-Bahá became the head of the Baháʼí community. Soon Muhammad ʻAli complained that ʻAbdu'l-Bahá was not sharing authority and he started working against his elder brother. Most members of the families of Baháʼu'lláh's second and third wives supported Muhammad ʻAlí; however, there were very few outside of Haifa who followed him.\n\nMuhammad ʻAlí's machinations with the Ottoman authorities resulted in ʻAbdu'l-Bahá's re-arrest and confinement in Acre. They also caused the appointment of two official commissions of inquiry, which almost led to further exile and incarceration of ʻAbdu'l-Baha to North Africa. In the aftermath of the Young Turk revolution, Ottoman prisoners were freed thus ending the danger to ʻAbdu'l-Baha. Meanwhile, Ibrahim George Kheiralla, a Syrian Christian, converted to the Baháʼí Faith, emigrated to the United States and founded the first American Baháʼí community. Initially, he was loyal to ʻAbdu'l-Bahá. With time Kheiralla began teaching that ʻAbdu'l-Baha was the return of Christ, and this was becoming the widespread understanding among the Baháʼís in the United States, despite ʻAbdu'l-Baha's efforts to correct the mistake. Later on, Kheiralla switched sides in the conflict between Baháʼu'lláh's sons and supported Mirza Muhammad Ali. He formed the Society of Behaists, a religious denomination promoting Unitarian Bahaism in the U.S., which was later led by Shua Ullah Behai, son of Mirza Muhammad Ali, after he emigrated to the United States in June 1904 at the behest of his father. Muhammad ʻAlí's supporters either called themselves Behaists or \"Unitarian Baháʼís\". From 1934 to 1937, Behai published Behai Quarterly a Unitarian Bahai magazine written in English and featuring the writings of Muhammad Ali and various other Unitarian Bahais.\n\nʻAbdu'l-Bahá's response to determined opposition during his tenure was patterned on Baháʼu'lláh's example and evolved across three stages. Initially, like Baháʼu'lláh, he made no public statements but communicated with his brother Muhammad ʻAlí and his associates directly, or through intermediaries, in seeking reconciliation. When it became clear that reconciliation was not possible, and fearing damage to the community, ʻAbdu'l-Bahá wrote to the Baháʼís explaining the situation, identifying the individuals concerned and instructing the believers to sever all ties with those involved. Finally, he sent representatives to those areas most affected by the problem.\n\nThe function of these representatives was to explain matters to the Baháʼís and to encourage them to persevere in cutting all contact. Often these chosen individuals would have ʻAbdu'l-Bahá's authority to open up communications with those involved to try to persuade them to return. In Iran, such envoys were principally the four Hands of the Cause appointed by Baháʼu'lláh.\n\nWhen ʻAbdu'l-Bahá died, his Will and Testament explained in some detail how Muhammad ʻAlí had been unfaithful to the Covenant, identifying him as a Covenant-breaker and appointing Shoghi Effendi as leader of the Faith with the title of Guardian. Baháʼí authors such as Hasan Balyuzi and Adib Taherzadeh set about refuting the claims of Muhammad ʻAlí. This represented what is often described as the most testing time for the Baháʼí Faith. The Behaists rejected the authority of the Will and Testament of ʻAbdu'l-Bahá, claiming loyalty to the leadership succession as they inferred it from Baha'u'llah's Kitab-i-Ahd.\n\nThis schism had very little effect. In the ʻAkká area, the followers of Muhammad ʻAlí represented six families at most, they had no common religious activities, and were almost wholly assimilated into Muslim society. A modern academic observer has reported an attempt to revive the claims of Muhammad Ali in order to lend legitimacy to a newly established sect avowing loyalty to Baháʼu'lláh but rejecting the authority that Baháʼu'lláh gave to ʻAbdu'l-Bahá and to the Universal House of Justice. \n\nAt 24, Shoghi Effendi was particularly young when he assumed leadership of the religion in 1921, as provided for by ʻAbdu'l-Bahá in his Will and Testament. He had received a Western education at the Syrian Protestant College and later at Balliol College, Oxford.\n\nAt this time Muhammad-ʻAlí revived his claim to leadership of the Baháʼí community. He seized the keys of the Tomb of Baháʼu'lláh at the mansion of Bahjí, expelled its keeper, and demanded that he be recognized by the authorities as the legal custodian of that property. However, the Palestine authorities, after having conducted some investigations, instructed the British officer in ʻAkká to deliver the keys into the hands of the keeper loyal to Shoghi Effendi.\n\nAfter the death of ʻAbdu'l-Bahá, Ruth White questioned the Will's authenticity as early as 1926, and openly opposed Shoghi Effendi's Guardianship, publishing several books on the subject. She wrote a letter to the United States Postmaster General and asked him, among other things, to prohibit the National Spiritual Assembly from \"using the United States Mails to spread the falsehood that Shoghi Effendi is the successor of ʻAbdu'l-Bahá and the Guardian of the Cause.\" She also wrote a letter to the High Commissioner for Palestine; both of these letters were ignored.\n\nAnother division occurred primarily within the American Baháʼí community, which increasingly consisted of non-Persians with an interest in alternative spiritual pursuits. Many had been strongly attracted to the personality of ʻAbdu'l-Bahá and the spiritual teachings of the Baháʼí Faith. Some regarded it as an ecumenical society to which all persons of goodwill—regardless of religion—might join. When Shoghi Effendi made clear his position that the Baháʼí Faith was an independent religion with its own distinct administration through local and national spiritual assemblies, a few felt that he had overstepped the bounds of his authority. Most prominent among them was a New York group including Mirza Ahmad Sohrab, Lewis and Julia Chanler, who founded the \"New History Society\", and its youth section, the Caravan of East and West. Sohrab and the Chanlers refused to be overseen by the New York Spiritual Assembly, and were expelled by Shoghi Effendi as Covenant-breakers. They argued that the expulsion was meaningless because they believed the faith could not be institutionalized. The New History Society published several works by Sohrab and Chanler and others. Sohrab accepted the legitimacy of Shoghi Effendi as Guardian, but was critical of the manner of his leadership and the methods of organizing the Baháʼí administration. The New History Society attracted fewer than a dozen Baháʼís, however its membership swelled to several thousand for a time. The New History Society was active until 1959 and is now defunct. The Caravan House, aka Caravan Institute, later disassociated itself from the Baháʼí Faith, and remained as an unrelated non-profit educational organization.\n\nAll of the divisions of this period were short-lived and restricted in their influence.\n\nIn 1932 Shoghi Effendi's great aunt, Bahiyyih Khanum, died. She was highly respected and had instructed all to follow Shoghi Effendi through several telegrams she had sent around the world announcing the basics of the provisions of ʻAbdu'l-Bahá's will and was witness to the actions relatives took in violation of provisions of the will. Bahíyyih Khánum had devoted much of her life towards protecting the accepted leadership of the Baháʼí Faith and after Shoghi Effendi's appointment there was little internal opposition until after her death when nephews began to openly oppose Shoghi Effendi over Baháʼu'lláh's house in Baghdad.\nSome family members disapproved of his marriage to a Westerner, Mary Maxwell — daughter of one of the foremost disciples of ʻAbdu'l-Bahá — in 1937. They claimed that Shoghi Effendi introduced innovations beyond the Iranian roots of the Faith. This gradually resulted in his siblings and cousins disobeying his instructions and marrying into the families of Covenant-breakers, many of whom were expelled as Covenant-breakers themselves. However, these disagreements within Shoghi Effendi's family resulted in no attempts to create a schism favouring an alternative leader. At the time of his death in 1957, he was the only remaining male member of the family of Baháʼu'lláh who had not been expelled. Even his own parents had openly fought against him.\n\nShoghi Effendi died in 1957 without explicitly appointing a successor Guardian. He had no children, and during his lifetime all remaining male descendants of Baháʼu'lláh had been excommunicated as Covenant-breakers. He left no will. Shoghi Effendi's appointed Hands of the Cause unanimously voted it was impossible to legitimately recognize and assent to a successor. The Baháʼí community was in a situation not dealt with explicitly in the provisions of the Will and Testament of ʻAbdu'l-Bahá. Furthermore, the Universal House of Justice had not yet been elected, which represented the only Baháʼí institution authorized to adjudicate on matters not covered by the religion's three central figures. To understand the transition following the death of Shoghi Effendi in 1957, an explanation of the roles of the Guardian, the Hands of the Cause, and the Universal House of Justice is useful.\n\nOther than allusions in the writings of Baháʼu'lláh to the importance of the Aghsán, the role of the Guardian was not mentioned until the reading of the Will and Testament of ʻAbdu'l-Bahá. Shoghi Effendi later expressed to his wife and others that he had no foreknowledge of the existence of the Institution of Guardianship, least of all that he was appointed as Guardian.\n\nʻAbdu'l-Bahá warned the Baháʼís to avoid the problems caused by his half-brother Muhammad ʻAlí. He stipulated the criteria and form for selecting future Guardians, which was to be clear and unambiguous. His will required that the Guardian appoint his successor \"in his own life-time ... that differences may not arise after his [the Guardian's] passing.\" The appointee was required to be either the first-born son of the Guardian, or one of the Aghsán (literally: Branches; male descendants of Baháʼu'lláh). Finally, ʻAbdu'l-Bahá left a responsibility to nine Hands of the Cause, elected from all of the Hands, who \"whether unanimously or by a majority vote, must give their assent to the choice of the one whom the Guardian of the Cause of God hath chosen as his successor.\"\n\nThe will also vested authority in the Guardian's appointed assistants, known as the Hands of the Cause, giving them the right to \"cast out from the congregation of the people of Bahá\" anyone they deem in opposition to the Guardian.\n\nThe roles of the Guardianship and the Universal House of Justice are complementary, the former providing authoritative interpretation, and the latter providing flexibility and the authority to adjudicate on \"questions that are obscure and matters that are not expressly recorded in the Book.\" The authority of the two institutions was elucidated by ʻAbdu'l-Bahá in his will, saying that rebellion and disobedience towards either the Guardian or the Universal House of Justice, is rebellion and disobedience towards God. Shoghi Effendi went into further detail explaining this relationship in \"The World Order of Baháʼu'lláh\", indicating that the institutions are interdependent.\n\nShortly after Shoghi Effendi's death, the 27 then-living Hands of the Cause (Hands) deliberated over whether or not they could legitimately consent to any successor. Only two members present could translate between English and Persian. Following these events Time Magazine reported that there were debates about two possible candidates for Guardian.\n\nOn November 25, 1957, the Hands signed a unanimous proclamation stating that he had died \"without having appointed his successor\"; that \"it is now fallen upon us... to preserve the unity, the security and the development of the Baháʼí World Community and all its institutions\"; and that they would elect from among themselves nine Hands who would \"exercise ... all such functions, rights and powers in succession to the Guardian of the Baháʼí Faith... as are necessary to serve the interests of the Baháʼí World Faith, and this until such time as the Universal House of Justice... may otherwise determine.\" This body of nine Hands became known as the Hands of the Cause in the Holy Land, sometimes referred to as the Custodians.\n\nThat same day the Hands passed a unanimous resolution that clarified who would have authority over various executive areas. Among these were:\n\nIn their deliberations following Shoghi Effendi's passing they determined that they were not in a position to appoint a successor, only to ratify one, so they advised the Baháʼí community that the Universal House of Justice would consider the matter after it was established.\n\nIn deciding when and how the International Baháʼí Council would develop into the Universal House of Justice, the Hands agreed to carry out Shoghi Effendi's plans for moving it from the appointed council, to an officially recognized Baháʼí Court, to a duly elected body, and then to the elected Universal House of Justice. In November 1959, referring to the goal of becoming recognized as a non-Jewish religious court in Israel, they said: \"this goal, due to the strong trend towards the secularization of Religious Courts in this part of the world, might not be achieved.\" The recognition as a religious court was never achieved, and the International Baháʼí Council was reformed in 1961 as an elected body in preparation for forming the Universal House of Justice. The Hands of the Cause made themselves ineligible for election to both the council and the Universal House of Justice.\n\nUpon the election of the Universal House of Justice at the culmination of the Ten Year Crusade in 1963, the nine Hands acting as interim head of the religion closed their office.\n\nCharles Mason Remey was among the Hands who signed the unanimous proclamations in 1957, acknowledging that Shoghi Effendi had died without having appointed his successor. He was also among the nine Custodians initially elected to serve in the Holy Land as interim head of the religion.\n\nOn 8 April 1960, Remey made a written announcement that he was the second Guardian of the Baháʼí Faith and explained his \"status for life as commander in chief of Baháʼí affairs of the world\" in this proclamation which he requested to be read in front of the annual US convention in Wilmette.\n\nHe based his claim on his having been appointed President of the first International Baháʼí Council by Shoghi Effendi in 1951. The appointed council represented the first international Baháʼí body. Remey believed that his appointment as the council's president meant that he was the Guardian of the Baháʼí Faith.\n\nRegarding the authority of the Hands of the Cause, Remey wrote in his letter that the Hands \"have no authority vested in themselves... save under the direction of the living Guardian of the Faith.\" He further commanded the Baháʼís to abandon plans for establishing the Universal House of Justice.\n\nRemey never addressed the requirement that Guardians should be male-descendants of Baháʼu'lláh, of whom Remey was not. His followers later referred to letters and public statements of ʻAbdu'l-Bahá calling him \"my son\" as evidence that he had been implicitly adopted but these claims were almost universally rejected by the body of the Baháʼís.\n\nIn response, and after having made many prior efforts to convince Remey to withdraw his claim, the Custodians took action and sent a cablegram to the National Spiritual Assemblies on 26 July 1960. Two days later the Custodians sent Mason Remey a letter informing him of their unanimous decision to declare him a Covenant-breaker. They cited the Will and Testament of ʻAbdul-Bahá, the unanimous joint resolutions of November 25, 1957, and their authority in carrying out the work of the Guardian as their justification. Anyone who accepted Remey's claim to the Guardianship was also expelled.\n\nRemey attracted about 100 followers in the United States and a few others in Pakistan and Europe. Remey maintained his claim to Guardianship, and went on to establish what came to be known as the Orthodox Baháʼís Under the Hereditary Guardianship, which later broke into several other divisions based on succession disputes within the groups that followed Remey. Although initially disturbing, the mainstream Baháʼís paid little attention to his movement within a few years. As of 2006 his followers represent two or three groups that maintain little contact with each other, comprising a few hundred members collectively. \n\nThe Baháʼí institutions and believers around the world pledged their loyalty to the Hands of the Cause, who dedicated the next few years to completing Shoghi Effendi's Ten Year Crusade, culminating with the election of the Universal House of Justice in 1963. It was at this time the Custodians officially passed their authority as the head of the Faith to the Universal House of Justice, which soon announced that it could not appoint or legislate to make possible the appointment of a second Guardian to succeed Shoghi Effendi.\n\nA short time later it elaborated on the situation in which the Guardian would die without being able to appoint a successor, saying that it was an obscure question not covered by Baháʼí scriptures, that no institution or individual at the time could have known the answer, and that it therefore had to be referred to the Universal House of Justice, whose election was confirmed by references in Shoghi Effendi's letters that after 1963 the Baháʼí world would be led by international plans under the direction of the Universal House of Justice.\n\nMason Remey and his successors asserted that a living Guardian is essential for the Baháʼí community, and that the Baháʼí writings required it. The basis of these claims were almost universally rejected by the body of the Baháʼís, for whom the restoration of scripturally sanctioned leadership of the Universal House of Justice proved more attractive than the claims of Mason Remey.\n\nThe House commented that its own authority was not dependent on the presence of a Guardian, and that its legislative functioning was unaffected by the absence of a Guardian. It stated that in its legislation it would be able to turn to the mass of interpretation left by Shoghi Effendi. The Universal House of Justice addressed this issue further early after its election clarifying that \"there is nowhere any promise or guarantee that the line of Guardians would endure forever; on the contrary there are clear indications that the line could be broken.\"\n\nAll those that professed belief in Mason Remey as the second Guardian did not accept the Universal House of Justice established in 1963.\n\nAmong the Baháʼís who accepted Mason Remey as the second Guardian, several further divisions have occurred based on conflicting opinions of legitimacy and succession of authority. They began to split into smaller groups even before his death in 1974. Small Remeyite groups are now largely confined to the United States. Some of these divisions are described below.\n\nThe \"Encyclopædia Iranica\" reports the following:\n\nRemey died at the age of 99 living many of his last years in Florence, Italy.\n\nIn 1962 Mason Remey asked his supporters in the United States to organize themselves and elect a \"National Spiritual Assembly Under the Hereditary Guardianship\" (NSAUHG). The Assembly was incorporated in New Mexico in 1964.\n\nIn 1964 the NSAUHG filed a lawsuit against the National Spiritual Assembly (NSA) of the Baháʼís of the United States to receive the legal title to the Baháʼí House of Worship in Illinois, and all other property owned by the NSA. The NSA counter-sued and won. Later that year, Remey asked the NSAUHG to dissolve, as well as the second International Baháʼí Council that he had appointed with Joel Marangella, residing in France, as president. Marangella, Donald Harvey, and Jacques Soghomonian had previously served on the National Spiritual Assembly of France (in 1961) and had been declared Covenant-breakers when they accepted Mason Remey as the next Guardian.\n\nAfter 1966, some followers of Mason Remey began forming their own groups based on different understandings of succession.\n\nJoel Marangella was president of Remey's \"Second International Baháʼí Council\", and claimed in 1969 to have been secretly appointed by Remey as Guardian several years earlier. His supporters came to be known as Orthodox Baháʼís. Membership data is scarce. One source estimated them at no more than 100 members in 1988, and the group claimed a United States membership of about 40 in a 2007 court case. Websites claiming to represent the Orthodox community indicate followers in the United States and India. Joel Marangella died in San Diego, California on Sept 1, 2013.\n\nLeland Jensen accepted Remey's claim to the Guardianship and later left the group. In 1969 he was convicted of \"a lewd and lascivious act\" for sexually molesting a 15-year-old female patient, and he served four years of a twenty-year sentence in the Montana State Prison. It was in prison that Jensen converted several inmates to his ideas of being what he called the \"Establisher\" of the Baháʼí Faith, stemming from his belief that the Baháʼí administrative order became corrupted. After being paroled in 1973 and before Remey's death, Jensen formed a group called the Baháʼís Under the Provisions of the Covenant.\n\nSince the 1970s, Jensen believed Remey's adopted son Joseph Pepe was the Guardian, an idea that Pepe rejected several times. In 1991 Jensen appointed followers to a second International Baháʼí Council (sIBC), intending that it would grow into an elected Universal House of Justice after a nuclear holocaust. Jensen died in 1996.\n\nA researcher has noted that since 1980, BUPC membership has never exceeded 200 nationwide, and declined in size significantly by 1990 and beyond. Adherents were mostly concentrated in Montana.\n\nDonald Harvey (d.1991), was appointed by Remey as \"Third Guardian\" in 1967. After Harvey's death in 1991, leadership of this group went to Jacques Soghomonian, a resident of Marseilles, France. Soghomonian died in 2013 and passed the successorship to E.S. Yazdani.\n\nFrancis Spataro of New York City, who supported Donald Harvey's claim as Remey's successor, independently organized \"The Remey Society\" after losing favor with Harvey. Spataro published books about Charles Mason Remey, and at one time had a newsletter with about 400 recipients. When Spataro began to preach that Charles Mason Remey was a \"Prophet\", Harvey cut all ties to Spataro. He then continued to promote the life and works of Charles Mason Remey. In 1995 Francis Spataro became an Old Catholic priest and left the Baháʼí religion altogether. The Remey Society is now extinct.\n\nThe term Free Baháʼís has been used by or about a small number of Baháʼís that have attempted schism from the main body of believers of the Baháʼí Faith. More specifically, it is a form of belief that rejects the authority of Shoghi Effendi, appointed in 1921 to lead the community following the death of ʻAbdu'l-Bahá. \n\nThe term was first used by Hermann Zimmer, who revived the earlier claims of Ruth White that the \"Will and Testament of ʻAbdu'l-Bahá\" was forged. White's claim was widely rejected by other Baháʼís of the time, including Baháʼís who, like her, were enemies of Shoghi Effendi. White was able to gather the support of a single Baháʼí in Germany, Wilhelm Herrigel, who took up her cause; only a few Baháʼís followed him, and most repudiated him following his death in 1932.\n\n\"The House of Mankind and the Universal Palace of Order\" followed Jamshid Ma'ani and John Carré, but appears now to be defunct. In the early 1970s a Persian man named Jamshid Ma'ani claimed he was \"The Man\"; or a new Manifestation of God. He gained a few dozen Iranian Baháʼí followers. John Carré heard of Jamshid, and wrote a book trying to get other Baháʼís to accept a new, third Manifestation. Carré even invited \"The Man\" to live in his home in California, but soon concluded, after living with \"The Man\" for four months, that \"The Man\" was not at all godly or spiritual and certainly not a Manifestation of God. \"The Man\" went back to Iran, and Carré ended all association with him.\n\nRex King rejected all claimants to the Guardianship after Shoghi Effendi including Remey. He claimed that he, Rex King, was a \"regent\" pending the emergence of the second Guardian who was in \"occultation\". His group called themselves the Orthodox Baháʼí Faith under the Regency. King died in 1977 and appointed four of his family as the council of regents. This group today calls itself the \"Tarbiyat Baha'i Community\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2007746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007746", "title": "Costa Blanca", "text": "Costa Blanca\n\nThe Costa Blanca (, , literally meaning \"White Coast\") is over of Mediterranean coastline in the Alicante province, on the southeastern coast of Spain. It extends from the town of Dénia in the north, beyond which lies the Costa del Azahar (or Costa dels Tarongers), to Pilar de la Horadada in the south, beyond which lies the Costa Cálida. Costa Blanca has a well-developed tourism industry and is a popular destination for British and German tourists. \n\nThe localities along the Costa Blanca are Alicante (\"Alicante/Alacant\"), Altea, Benidorm, Benissa (\"Benisa\"), Calp (\"Calpe\"), Dénia (\"Denia\"), Elche (\"Elche/Elx\"), El Campello (\"Campello\"), Finestrat, Guardamar del Segura, L'Alfàs del Pi (\"Alfaz del Pi\"), Orihuela Costa, Pilar de la Horadada, Santa Pola, Teulada–Moraira, Torrevieja, Villajoyosa (\"Villajoyosa/La Vila Joiosa\") and Xàbia (\"Xàbia/Jávea\"). Benidorm and Alicante cities are the major tourist centres. \n\nThe Iberians were the oldest documented people living in what today is the Alicante province. Belonging to these there are several archaeologic sites from which is specially known the one in La Serreta (near Alcoy) because the longest inscriptions remaining in the undeciphered Iberian language were found there.\nAlong the coast and contemporarily to the Iberians, the seafaring Phoenicians (in Guardamar) and Greeks (along the coastal section to the north of the Alicante city) settled stable trading colonies and interacted with the former (see Lady of Elche for the most renowned archeological piece of this period).\nAfter a brief Carthaginian period, the Romans took over. Romanization in this part of Iberia was intense, the Via Augusta communicated this part of the Empire to the metropoli and so several cities thrived, from which the one known as Ilici Augusta (now Elche) even reached the status of colonia.\nAfter a brief period of Visigothic ruling, the area was taken by Islamic armies and became a part of Al Andalus. From the 13th century, kings like Ferdinand III of Castile, James I of Aragon, Alfonso X of Castile, James II of Aragon reconquered the cities that Moors occupied. What today is the Alicante province was initially split between the Crown of Castile and the Crown of Aragon by means of the Treaty of Almizra, however later on the whole territory became under the control of the Kingdom of Valencia, which was a component Kingdom of the Crown of Aragon.\nAlicante contributes with 12 deputies in the Spanish Parliament and with 36 deputies in the Corts Valencianes, the regional Parliament of the Valencian Community.\n\nCosta Blanca is a popular climbing location thanks to its limestone crags and good weather conditions.\n\n"}
{"id": "2007748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007748", "title": "Structural equation modeling", "text": "Structural equation modeling\n\nStructural equation modeling (SEM) includes a diverse set of mathematical models, computer algorithms, and statistical methods that fit networks of constructs to data. SEM includes confirmatory factor analysis, confirmatory composite analysis, path analysis, partial least squares path modeling, and latent growth modeling. The concept should not be confused with the related concept of structural models in econometrics, nor with structural models in economics. Structural equation models are often used to assess unobservable 'latent' constructs. They often invoke a measurement model that defines latent variables using one or more observed variables, and a structural model that imputes relationships between latent variables. The links between constructs of a structural equation model may be estimated with independent regression equations or through more involved approaches such as those employed in LISREL.\n\nUse of SEM is commonly justified in the social sciences because of its ability to impute relationships between unobserved constructs (latent variables) from observable variables. To provide a simple example, the concept of human intelligence cannot be measured directly as one could measure height or weight. Instead, psychologists develop a hypothesis of intelligence and write measurement instruments with items (questions) designed to measure intelligence according to their hypothesis. They would then use SEM to test their hypothesis using data gathered from people who took their intelligence test. With SEM, \"intelligence\" would be the latent variable and the test items would be the observed variables.\n\nA simplistic model suggesting that intelligence (as measured by four questions) can predict academic performance (as measured by SAT, ACT, and high school GPA) is shown above (top right). In SEM diagrams, latent variables are commonly shown as ovals and observed variables as rectangles. The diagram above shows how error (e) influences each intelligence question and the SAT, ACT, and GPA scores, but does not influence the latent variables. SEM provides numerical estimates for each of the parameters (arrows) in the model to indicate the strength of the relationships. Thus, in addition to testing the overall theory, SEM therefore allows the researcher to diagnose which observed variables are good indicators of the latent variables.\n\nVarious methods in structural equation modeling have been used in the sciences, business, and other fields. Criticism of SEM methods often addresses pitfalls in mathematical formulation, weak external validity of some accepted models and philosophical bias inherent to the standard procedures.\n\nStructural equation modeling, as the term is currently used in sociology, psychology, and other social sciences evolved from the earlier methods in genetic path modeling of Sewall Wright. Their modern forms came about with computer intensive implementations in the 1960s and 1970s. SEM evolved in three different streams: (1) systems of equation regression methods developed mainly at the Cowles Commission; (2) iterative maximum likelihood algorithms for path analysis developed mainly by Karl Gustav Jöreskog at the Educational Testing Service and subsequently at Uppsala University; and (3) iterative canonical correlation fit algorithms for path analysis also developed at Uppsala University by Hermann Wold. Much of this development occurred at a time that automated computing was offering substantial upgrades over the existing calculator and analogue computing methods available, themselves products of the proliferation of office equipment innovations in the late 20th century. The 2015 text \"Structural Equation Modeling: From Paths to Networks\" provides a history of the methods.\n\nLoose and confusing terminology has been used to obscure weaknesses in the methods. In particular, PLS-PA (the Lohmoller algorithm) has been conflated with partial least squares regression PLSR, which is a substitute for ordinary least squares regression and has nothing to do with path analysis. PLS-PA has been falsely promoted as a method that works with small datasets when other estimation approaches fail. Westland (2010) decisively showed this not to be true and developed an algorithm for sample sizes in SEM. Since the 1970s, the 'small sample size' assertion has been known to be false (see for example Dhrymes, 1972, 1974; Dhrymes & Erlat, 1972; Dhrymes et al., 1972; Gupta, 1969; Sobel, 1982).\n\nBoth LISREL and PLS-PA were conceived as iterative computer algorithms, with an emphasis from the start on creating an accessible graphical and data entry interface and extension of Wright's (1921) path analysis. Early Cowles Commission work on simultaneous equations estimation centered on Koopman and Hood's (1953) algorithms from the economics of transportation and optimal routing, with maximum likelihood estimation, and closed form algebraic calculations, as iterative solution search techniques were limited in the days before computers. Anderson and Rubin (1949, 1950) developed the limited information maximum likelihood estimator for the parameters of a single structural equation, which indirectly included the two-stage least squares estimator and its asymptotic distribution (Anderson, 2005) and Farebrother (1999). Two-stage least squares was originally proposed as a method of estimating the parameters of a single structural equation in a system of linear simultaneous equations, being introduced by Theil (1953a, 1953b, 1961) and more or less independently by Basmann (1957) and Sargan (1958). Anderson's limited information maximum likelihood estimation was eventually implemented in a computer search algorithm, where it competed with other iterative SEM algorithms. Of these, two-stage least squares was by far the most widely used method in the 1960s and the early 1970s.\n\nSystems of regression equation approaches were developed at the Cowles Commission from the 1950s on, extending the transportation modeling of Tjalling Koopmans. Sewall Wright and other statisticians attempted to promote path analysis methods at Cowles (then at the University of Chicago). University of Chicago statisticians identified many faults with path analysis applications to the social sciences; faults which did not pose significant problems for identifying gene transmission in Wright's context, but which made path methods such as PLS-PA and LISREL problematic in the social sciences. Freedman (1987) summarized these objections in path analyses: \"failure to distinguish among causal assumptions, statistical implications, and policy claims has been one of the main reasons for the suspicion and confusion surrounding quantitative methods in the social sciences\" (see also Wold's (1987) response). Wright's path analysis never gained a large following among U.S. econometricians, but was successful in influencing Hermann Wold and his student Karl Jöreskog. Jöreskog's student Claes Fornell promoted LISREL in the US.\n\nAdvances in computers made it simple for novices to apply structural equation methods in the computer-intensive analysis of large datasets in complex, unstructured problems. The most popular solution techniques fall into three classes of algorithms: (1) ordinary least squares algorithms applied independently to each path, such as applied in the so-called PLS path analysis packages which estimate with OLS; (2) covariance analysis algorithms evolving from seminal work by Wold and his student Karl Jöreskog implemented in LISREL, AMOS, and EQS; and (3) simultaneous equations regression algorithms developed at the Cowles Commission by Tjalling Koopmans.\n\nPearl has extended SEM from linear to nonparametric models, and proposed causal and counterfactual interpretations of the equations. For example, excluding a variable Z from the arguments of an equation asserts that the dependent variable is independent of interventions on the excluded variable, once we hold constant the remaining arguments. Nonparametric SEMs permit the estimation of total, direct and indirect effects without making any commitment to the form of the equations or to the distributions of the error terms. This extends mediation analysis to systems involving categorical variables in the presence of nonlinear interactions. Bollen and Pearl survey the history of the causal interpretation of SEM and why it has become a source of confusions and controversies.\n\nSEM path analysis methods are popular in the social sciences because of their accessibility; packaged computer programs allow researchers to obtain results without the inconvenience of understanding experimental design and control, effect and sample sizes, and numerous other factors that are part of good research design. Supporters say that this reflects a holistic, and less blatantly causal, interpretation of many real world phenomena – especially in psychology and social interaction – than may be adopted in the natural sciences; detractors suggest that many flawed conclusions have been drawn because of this lack of experimental control.\n\nDirection in the directed network models of SEM arises from presumed cause-effect assumptions made about reality. Social interactions and artifacts are often epiphenomena – secondary phenomena that are difficult to directly link to causal factors. An example of a physiological epiphenomenon is, for example, time to complete a 100-meter sprint. A person may be able to improve their sprint speed from 12 seconds to 11 seconds, but it will be difficult to attribute that improvement to any direct causal factors, like diet, attitude, weather, etc. The 1 second improvement in sprint time is an epiphenomenon – the holistic product of interaction of many individual factors.\n\nAlthough each technique in the SEM family is different, the following aspects are common to many SEM methods.\n\nTwo main components of models are distinguished in SEM: the \"structural model\" showing potential causal dependencies between endogenous and exogenous variables, and the \"measurement model\" showing the relations between latent variables and their indicators. Exploratory and confirmatory factor analysis models, for example, contain only the measurement part, while path diagrams can be viewed as SEMs that contain only the structural part.\n\nIn specifying pathways in a model, the modeler can posit two types of relationships: (1) \"free\" pathways, in which hypothesized causal (in fact counterfactual) relationships between variables are tested, and therefore are left 'free' to vary, and (2) relationships between variables that already have an estimated relationship, usually based on previous studies, which are 'fixed' in the model.\n\nA modeler will often specify a set of theoretically plausible models in order to assess whether the model proposed is the best of the set of possible models. Not only must the modeler account for the theoretical reasons for building the model as it is, but the modeler must also take into account the number of data points and the number of parameters that the model must estimate to identify the model. An identified model is a model where a specific parameter value uniquely identifies the model (recursive definition), and no other equivalent formulation can be given by a different parameter value. A data point is a variable with observed scores, like a variable containing the scores on a question or the number of times respondents buy a car. The parameter is the value of interest, which might be a regression coefficient between the exogenous and the endogenous variable or the factor loading (regression coefficient between an indicator and its factor). If there are fewer data points than the number of estimated parameters, the resulting model is \"unidentified\", since there are too few reference points to account for all the variance in the model. The solution is to constrain one of the paths to zero, which means that it is no longer part of the model.\n\nParameter estimation is done by comparing the actual covariance matrices representing the relationships between variables and the estimated covariance matrices of the best fitting model. This is obtained through numerical maximization via expectation–maximization of a \"fit criterion\" as provided by maximum likelihood estimation, quasi-maximum likelihood estimation, weighted least squares or asymptotically distribution-free methods. This is often accomplished by using a specialized SEM analysis program, of which several exist.\n\nHaving estimated a model, analysts will want to interpret the model. Estimated paths may be tabulated and/or presented graphically as a path model. The impact of variables is assessed using path tracing rules (see path analysis).\n\nIt is important to examine the \"fit\" of an estimated model to determine how well it models the data. This is a basic task in SEM modeling: forming the basis for accepting or rejecting models and, more usually, accepting one competing model over another. The output of SEM programs includes matrices of the estimated relationships between variables in the model. Assessment of fit essentially calculates how similar the predicted data are to matrices containing the relationships in the actual data.\n\nFormal statistical tests and fit indices have been developed for these purposes. Individual parameters of the model can also be examined within the estimated model in order to see how well the proposed model fits the driving theory. Most, though not all, estimation methods make such tests of the model possible.\n\nOf course as in all statistical hypothesis tests, SEM model tests are based on the assumption that the correct and complete relevant data have been modeled. In the SEM literature, discussion of fit has led to a variety of different recommendations on the precise application of the various fit indices and hypothesis tests.\n\nThere are differing approaches to assessing fit. Traditional approaches to modeling start from a null hypothesis, rewarding more parsimonious models (i.e. those with fewer free parameters), to others such as AIC that focus on how little the fitted values deviate from a saturated model (i.e. how well they reproduce the measured values), taking into account the number of free parameters used. Because different measures of fit capture different elements of the fit of the model, it is appropriate to report a selection of different fit measures. Guidelines (i.e., \"cutoff scores\") for interpreting fit measures, including the ones listed below, are the subject of much debate among SEM researchers.\n\nSome of the more commonly used measures of fit include:\n\nFor each measure of fit, a decision as to what represents a good-enough fit between the model and the data must reflect other contextual factors such as sample size, the ratio of indicators to factors, and the overall complexity of the model. For example, very large samples make the Chi-squared test overly sensitive and more likely to indicate a lack of model-data fit. \n\nThe model may need to be modified in order to improve the fit, thereby estimating the most likely relationships between variables. Many programs provide modification indices which may guide minor modifications. Modification indices report the change in χ² that result from freeing fixed parameters: usually, therefore adding a path to a model which is currently set to zero. Modifications that improve model fit may be flagged as potential changes that can be made to the model. Modifications to a model, especially the structural model, are changes to the theory claimed to be true. Modifications therefore must make sense in terms of the theory being tested, or be acknowledged as limitations of that theory. Changes to measurement model are effectively claims that the items/data are impure indicators of the latent variables specified by theory.\n\nModels should not be led by MI, as Maccallum (1986) demonstrated: \"even under favorable conditions, models arising from specification searches must be viewed with caution.\"\n\nWhile researchers agree that large sample sizes are required to provide sufficient statistical power and precise estimates using SEM, there is no general consensus on the appropriate method for determining adequate sample size. Generally, the considerations for determining sample size include the number of observations per parameter, the number of observations required for fit indexes to perform adequately, and the number of observations per degree of freedom. Researchers have proposed guidelines based on simulation studies, professional experience, and mathematical formulas.\n\nSample size requirements to achieve a particular significance and power in SEM hypothesis testing are similar for the same model when any of the three algorithms (PLS-PA, LISREL or systems of regression equations) are used for testing.\n\nThe set of models are then interpreted so that claims about the constructs can be made, based on the best fitting model.\n\nCaution should always be taken when making claims of causality even when experimentation or time-ordered studies have been done. The term \"causal model\" must be understood to mean \"a model that conveys causal assumptions\", not necessarily a model that produces validated causal conclusions. Collecting data at multiple time points and using an experimental or quasi-experimental design can help rule out certain rival hypotheses but even a randomized experiment cannot rule out all such threats to causal inference. Good fit by a model consistent with one causal hypothesis invariably entails equally good fit by another model consistent with an opposing causal hypothesis. No research design, no matter how clever, can help distinguish such rival hypotheses, save for interventional experiments.\n\nAs in any science, subsequent replication and perhaps modification will proceed from the initial finding.\n\n\nSeveral software packages exist for fitting structural equation models. LISREL was the first such software, initially released in the 1970s.\n\nThere are also several packages for the R open source statistical environment. The OpenMx R package provides an open source and enhanced version of the Mx application.\n\nScholars consider it good practice to report which software package and version was used for SEM analysis because they have different capabilities and may use slightly different methods to perform similarly-named techniques.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2007753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007753", "title": "Say It Like You Mean It", "text": "Say It Like You Mean It\n\nSay It Like You Mean It is the debut studio album by American rock band the Starting Line, following their debut EP \"With Hopes of Starting Over...\".\n\nGuitarist Matt Watts and drummer Mike Golla met while at a mutual friend's band practice. They formed their own group and started searching for a vocalist. The pair looked through AOL's member directory and emailed a number of people. They came across Kenny Vasoli, and subsequently met him while he was playing with his own band. He was drafted into Watts and Golla's group, which broke up after a week. The members remained in contact, and formed The Starting Line in mid-1999 under the name Sunday Drive. Drummer Tom Gryskiewitz was brought into the fold after him and Watts met at a restaurant. Golla subsequently moved to guitar. They wrote material in their practice space and tracked demos. They started gaining publicity with the aid of AOL and MP3.com. Independent label We the People Records became aware of the group's demos and signed them in mid-2000. \n\nThe band recorded an album's worth of material with producer Chris Badami, which was due for release in early 2001. However, it wasn't released due to the intervention of independent label Drive-Thru Records, who saw the group's commercial potential. We the People Records, who had ties with Drive-Thru, had arranged a showcase for the label's founders Stefanie and Richard Reines. The pair were impressed with the band, but thought the songs lacked choruses. The group went away and reworked the material, before signing to Drive-Thru in April 2001. At the time, Vasoli was in high school and Watts was in college. With help from a guidance counsellor, Vasoli graduated early. The band changed their name to the Starting Line following threats from a Missouri-based act also called Sunday Drive. The group released the \"With Hopes of Starting Over...\" EP in July. Following this, the group became a full-time touring act.\n\nIn January 2002, the group began recording \"Say It Like You Mean It\". at Media Vortex with producer Mark Trombino, who Golla said brought \"an extra set of ears to the table\". \"Leaving\" and \"Saddest Girl Story\", two tracks that originally appeared on the \"With Hopes of Starting Over...\" EP, were re-recorded for \"Say It Like You Mean It\". \"Almost There, Going Nowhere\", \"Cheek to Cheek\", \"Left Coast Envy\" and \"The Drama Summer\", which were originally recorded for the We the People album, were also re-recorded. Nate Barcalow of Finch and Keith Goodwin of Days Away contributed additional vocals; the former on \"Cheek to Cheek\" and \"This Ride\", the latter on \"Left Coast Envy\". Trombino mixed the recordings at The Robot Factory in Los Angeles, California, before they were mastered by Steven Marcussen at Marcussen Mastering in Hollywood.\n\nMusically, the album drew comparisons to Blink-182, Jimmy Eat World and New Found Glory. The album's title is taken from a line in \"Almost There, Going Nowhere\". All of the songs were written by the band, except for \"The Drama Summer\" which was credited solely to Vasoli. The group usually worked on material together through jamming, where they would hear a part they enjoyed and expanded on it. On occasion, Golla or Vasoli arrived at practice with a complete song already written. Vasoli said the \"meaner\" tracks were about one of his ex-girlfriend. He initially promised not to write a song about her, but ended up writing six tracks. Similarly, \"Hello Houston\" and \"A Goodnight's Sleep\" were about a different ex-girlfriend. Vasoli said that despite him not being \"that bitter about it anymore\", he found it \"funny to rehash\".\n\nThe opening track \"Up & Go\" details a girl leaving despite having no reason to do so, and was compared to \"Anthem Pt. 2\" by Blink-182. \"Given the Chance\" is about the group's fans, specifically the ones in New Jersey. They found it hard to attract an audience in their home state of Philadelphia, but found it easier in New Jersey. It was reminiscent of the tracks heard on \"Enema of the State\" (1999) by Blink-182. \"Leaving\" sees Vasoli yearning for unrequited love. \"The Best of Me\" has an acoustic intro, before shifting into punk rock track. \"A Goodnight's Sleep\" is a ballad, and was reminiscent of \"Eyesore\" by New Found Glory.\n\nOn February 6, 2002, \"Say It Like You Mean It\" was announced for release in July. In April and May, the group went on tour with Brand New and Finch. Following this, the band went on a UK tour with New Found Glory and Finch. Between late June and mid-August, the group performed on the Warped Tour, appearing on the Drive-Thru stage. \"Say It Like You Mean It\" was made available for streaming on July 13, before being released on July 16 as a joint release by Drive-Thru and major label MCA Records. The group went on tour with Reel Big Fish in September and October. On October 27, a music video for \"The Best of Me\" was posted on Launch.com. The video starts with a guy attempting to impress a girl by playing music from a boombox outside of her residence. When the music stops, the band appear and start performing.\n\nIn early and mid-November, the band toured with Taking Back Sunday, the Early November and the Exit, before touring with Park, The Early November and Yellowcard for the remainder of the month. Further touring with Taking Back Sunday, alongside the Reunion Show and Northstar, followed in December. In January 2003, the group went on a tour of Japan with New Found Glory and Good Charlotte, before embarking on a European tour with Reel Big Fish and Sugarcult. To coincide with these shows, \"Say It Like You Mean It\" was released in those territories. Between mid-February and late April, they went on a US tour with Sum 41, No Use for a Name and Authority Zero.\n\nA new music video was posted online for \"The Best of Me\" through MTV.com on June 13. The group went on a UK tour in June with support from From Autumn to Ashes and The Reunion Show. \"The Best of Me\" was released as a single on June 16. The group performed a few shows with Mae and River City High and Zolof the Rock & Roll Destroyer in early and mid-July. In mid-July and early August, the group appeared on the Warped Tour, playing on the main stage. \"The Best of Me\" was released to modern rock radio stations on July 22. Between late August and mid-October, the group performed on the Drive-Thru Records 2003 Invasion Tour. In early September, a music video was filmed for \"Leaving\". It premiered during MTV2's \"Rock\" programme in November.\n\nAllMusic reviewer Kurt Morris said the record was \"full of bubbly, positive lyrics\", amidst \"plenty of upbeats and catchy hooks.\" In a review for \"Rolling Stone\", music critic J.D. Considine noted that the band had based their sound on the Green Day \"blueprint, with plenty of bright, singalong choruses and hyperstrummed power chords.\" Despite the comparison to Green Day, he viewed the Starting Line as being more progressive musically and lyrically than them. Ultimate Guitar Archive noted that Vasoli's was deeper compared to the group's earlier works, and called his lyrics heartfelt.\n\nAs of July 2007, it has sold close to 300,000 copies. In October 2012, independent label SRC Vinyl released the We the People album under the name \"The Early Years\". Following this, the group went on an anniversary tour for \"Say It Like You Mean It\", during which they performed it in its entirety, in December. In May 2014, the album was re-pressed on vinyl through SRC Vinyl with the bonus tracks \"Greg's Last Day\" and an acoustic version of \"The Best of Me\". Later that year, \"Rock Sound\" included the album on their The 51 Most Essential Pop Punk Albums of All Time list at number 21. \"Kerrang!\" similarly included the album at number 27 on their 51 Greatest Pop-Punk Albums list. In a 2016 listicle, Rob Rousseau of A.Side TV viewed the album as a \"masterwork\" of the \"era-defining Drive Thru Records ouvre.\"\n\nAll songs written by the Starting Line, except \"The Drama Summer\" by Kenny Vasoli.\n\nPersonnel per booklet.\nThe Starting Line\n\nAdditional musicians\n\nProduction\nCitations\nSources\n\n"}
{"id": "2007766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007766", "title": "Ford Motor Credit Company", "text": "Ford Motor Credit Company\n\nFord Motor Credit Company LLC, d/b/a Ford Credit, is the financial services arm of Ford Motor Company, and is headquartered in Dearborn, Michigan.\n\nThe predominant share of Ford Credit's business consists of financing Ford and Lincoln vehicles and supporting Ford and Lincoln dealers. Specifically, its business activities are concentrated in the area of automobile financing for consumers and dealership inventory and leasing. Ford Credit competes mainly on the basis of service and financing rate programs, including those sponsored by Ford. A key foundation of its service is providing broad and consistent purchasing policies for retail installment sale and lease contracts, and consistent support for dealer financing requirements across economic cycles. These policies have helped Ford Credit build strong relationships with Ford's dealer network that enhance competitiveness. Ford Credit also provides commercial financing and lines of credit to dealerships selling Ford Motor Company products. The firm also issues commercial paper and other debt instruments on Ford's behalf.\n\nFord Credit also owns Lincoln Automotive Financial Services, the arm that finances Lincoln vehicles.\n\nThe credit arm of Ford Motor Company was created with the purchase of Associates First Capital Corporation from Gulf Western in 1989.\n\nSince the automotive industry crisis of 2008–10, Ford Credit has been the only financial arm of Detroit's \"Big Three\" still owned by its parent automaker after the spinoff of GMAC (now Ally Financial) by General Motors and the purchase of Chrysler Financial (now TD Auto Finance) by Toronto-Dominion Bank.\n\n"}
{"id": "2007767", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007767", "title": "Sydney Ducks", "text": "Sydney Ducks\n\nThe Sydney Ducks was the name given to a gang of criminal immigrants from Australia in San Francisco, during the mid-19th century. Because many of these criminals came from the well-known British penal colonies in Australia, and were known to commit arson, they were blamed for an 1849 fire that devastated the heart of San Francisco, as well as the rampant crime in the city at the time.\n\nThe Sydney Ducks were criminals who operated as a gang, in a community that also included sailors, longshoremen, teamsters, wheelwrights, shipwrights, bartenders, saloon keepers, washerwomen, domestic servants, and dressmakers. The largest proportion (44%) were born in Ireland and migrated during the Great Irish Famine, first to Australia as laborers and then to California as part of the Gold Rush.\n\nThe criminality of the Sydney Ducks was the catalyst for the formation of the first Committee of Vigilance of 1851. The vigilantes usurped political power from the corrupt or incompetent officials in the city, conducted secret trials, lynchings, and deportations, which effectively decimated the Sydney Ducks. The area where the Sydney Ducks clustered at the base of Telegraph Hill was originally known as \"Sydney-Town,\" but by the 1860s was called exclusively by its better-known name, the Barbary Coast.\n\nOn December 19, 1854, five members of the gang were involved in the Jonathan R. Davis fight.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2007778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007778", "title": "2005–06 FA Premier League", "text": "2005–06 FA Premier League\n\nThe 2005–06 FA Premier League (known as the FA Barclays Premiership for sponsorship reasons) began on 13 August 2005, and concluded on 7 May 2006. The season saw Chelsea retain their title after defeating Manchester United 3–0 at Stamford Bridge towards the end of April. On the same day, West Bromwich Albion and Birmingham City were relegated, joining Sunderland in the Championship for the following season.\n\nSeveral clubs reported disappointing attendances and/or trouble selling out their grounds for the opening weeks' matches. Many have argued that this was due mainly to the comparatively early season start, and the Ashes Test cricket series which caught the nation's imagination and which England went on to win. Other possible reasons are continued escalation of ticket prices and the increasing number of games shown on television (which has had the knock on effect of greater variation in kick-off times). The overall decline in attendances for the season was only around 2%, but that figure is reduced by the fact that bigger clubs were promoted into the Premiership than were relegated and several clubs have suffered larger falls.\n\nFor the second time in two seasons, José Mourinho's Chelsea triumphed in the Premier League, with a home win over closest rivals Manchester United confirming them as champions after a record setting albeit tense season.\n\nChelsea's early season form with 14 wins out of 16 gave the champions an unequivocal head start. With Manchester United, Arsenal and Liverpool falling way short of their expectations before Christmas, Chelsea had effectively became champions-elect by early 2006. However, a sudden collapse in form by mid-March caused their seemingly unassailable lead of 16 points to be cut to just 7 in two months due to the impressive late run of form of Manchester United, who went on a nine-match winning streak scoring over 20 goals. However, a shock home draw with bottom of the table Sunderland at Old Trafford killed United's title hopes. The momentum was back with Chelsea who didn't need a second bite at the apple with wins over Bolton, Everton and finally Manchester United giving the west Londoners their second successive championship under Mourinho.\n\nThe top two clubs at the end of the season earned the right to participate in the UEFA Champions League group stages, while the third- and fourth-placed clubs get places in the Champions League Third Qualifying Round (where they progress to the Champions League group stages if they win or the UEFA Cup if they lose). However, if an English team wins the Champions League, but finishes outside the top four, then they get the final Champions League spot instead of the fourth-placed club, who have to settle for a place in the UEFA Cup. This could have been the case with Arsenal and Tottenham Hotspur, but Arsenal pipped Spurs to fourth place in the final matchday of the season before losing 2–1 to FC Barcelona in the final of the UEFA Champions League.\n\nThe fifth-placed club always earns a spot in the UEFA Cup. The winners of the FA Cup also earn a place in the UEFA Cup. If they have already qualified for European competition by their league position or winning the League Cup, then the FA Cup runners-up get their place. If the runners-up, too, have already qualified, then the highest league finisher who have not already qualified for Europe (normally sixth place) are given the place. This season, the FA Cup final featured Liverpool and West Ham. Since Liverpool finished third they were assured of a spot in the Champions League qualifying round, which in turn meant that West Ham received the cup winner's UEFA Cup place.\n\nThe League Cup winners also qualify for the UEFA Cup. If they have already qualified for European competition through other means then their place is, unlike the FA Cup, not awarded to the runner-up, but instead the highest league finisher who has not qualified for Europe. League Cup winners Manchester United finished second, placing them directly into the Champions League group stage. This meant that the sixth-placed club, Blackburn Rovers, qualified for the UEFA Cup. The team directly after the UEFA Cup places, goes into the UEFA Intertoto Cup which means in turn, if the team – Newcastle United this season – wins a 2-legged match means they earn a place in the qualifying round of the UEFA Cup.\n\nTwenty teams competed in the league – the top seventeen teams from the previous season and the three teams promoted from the Championship. The promoted teams were Sunderland, Wigan Athletic and West Ham United. Sunderland and West Ham United returned to the top flight after an absence of two years while Wigan Athletic played in the top flight for the first time in history. They replaced Crystal Palace, Norwich City (both teams relegated after a season's presence) and Southampton (ending their top flight spell of twenty-eight years). \n\n<onlyinclude></onlyinclude>\n\nThe PFA Players' Player of the Year award for 2006 was won by Steven Gerrard.\n\nThe shortlist for the PFA Players' Player of the Year award was as follows:\n\nThe PFA Young Player of the Year award was won by Wayne Rooney.\n\nThe shortlist for the award was as follows:\n\nGoalkeeper: Shay Given (Newcastle United)\nDefence: Pascal Chimbonda (Wigan Athletic), Jamie Carragher (Liverpool), John Terry, William Gallas (both Chelsea)\nMidfield: Steven Gerrard (Liverpool), Cristiano Ronaldo (Manchester United), Frank Lampard (Chelsea), Joe Cole (Chelsea)\n\nAttack: Thierry Henry (Arsenal), Wayne Rooney (Manchester United)\n\nWayne Rooney, was named the PFA Fans' Player of the Year for 2006.\n\nThe FWA Footballer of the Year award for 2006 was won by Thierry Henry for a record third time. No other player has won the accolade on as many occasions as the Arsenal player in the award's long history.\n\nArsenal's Thierry Henry won the Premier League Player of the Season award for the second time.\n\nJosé Mourinho was awarded the Premier League Manager of the Season award after he led Chelsea to their second premier league title in two years, their third league title in their history. This title was also his second time of winning the award in as many seasons.\n\nThierry Henry was named the winner of the Premier League Golden Boot award. The Arsenal striker scored 27 goals in the league and was presented with the award at Arsenal's last ever game at Highbury.\n\nLiverpool goalkeeper Pepe Reina won the Premier League Golden Glove award for the first time. He achieved clean sheets in 20 Premier League games.\n\nThe Premier League Fair Play League was won by Charlton Athletic, ahead of fellow London team Arsenal. The least sporting side was Blackburn Rovers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2007779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007779", "title": "Water bottle", "text": "Water bottle\n\nA water bottle is a container that is used to hold water, liquids or other beverages for consumption. The use of a water bottle allows an individual to drink and transport a beverage from one place to another.\n\nA water bottle is usually made of plastic, glass, or metal. Water bottles are available in different shapes, colors, and sizes. In the past, water bottles were sometimes made of wood, bark, or animal skins such as leather, hide and sheepskin. Water bottles can be either disposable or reusable. Reusable water bottles can also be used for liquids such as juice, iced tea, alcoholic beverages, or soft drinks. Reusable water bottles reduce plastic waste and contribute to saving the environment. Easily portable, water bottles make for convenient use. Water bottles often list nutrition facts.\n\nSales of single-use, pre-filled plastic water bottles have increased almost every single year for more than a decade. In 2011, greater than US$11 billion was spent on bottled water products in the United States alone. In 2017, The US spent $11.5 billion on bottled waters. The International Bottled Water Association (IBWA) states that people are increasingly relying on water bottles for convenience and portability.\n\nIn some countries with low-quality tap water, citizens also use bottled water (including in family-size containers kept in the home) for health reasons. For example, as of 2010, Mexico – notorious for its questionable municipal water supplies – had an average 8 percent increase per year in bottled water purchases, and consumed approximately 13 percent of the world's total of bottled water. Mexican citizens drink more bottled water than those of any other country do, an average of 61.8 gallons per person each year – more than twice the rate of US per capita consumption. The increase in the use of single-use personal plastic water bottles has contributed markedly to the country's litter problem, though the increase in the popularity of bottled water has come with a decrease in the growth rate of consumption of soft drinks (which pose health risks in excessive quantities, as well as the same littering problem).\n\nMulti-use water bottles can be made from high-density polyethylene (HDPE), low-density polyethylene (LDPE), copolyester, or polypropylene. All offer the advantage of being durable, lightweight, dishwasher-safe, and BPA-free. The main difference between each type of water bottle is the flexibility of the material. Copolyester and polypropylene offer the greatest rigidity; HDPE retains some flexibility; LDPE (most commonly associated with collapsible, squeeze bottles) is highly flexible.\n\nMetal water bottles are growing in popularity. Made primarily from stainless steel or aluminium (aluminum), they are durable, retain less odor and taste from previous contents than most plastic bottles, but can sometime impart a metallic taste. Metal bottles thus often contain a resin or epoxy liner to protect contents from taste and odor transfer or corrosion. Although most liners are now BPA-free, older and less expensive models can contain BPA. Glass liners may also be used .\n\nIt is not recommended to fill aluminium bottles with acidic liquids (e.g. orange juice), as this could cause aluminium to leach into the contents of the bottle. Depending on the type of source material and manufacturing process behind a stainless steel bottle, trace amounts of minerals can leach into contents from this type of bottle as well. Stainless steel bottles that do not contain a liner have been known to transfer a rusty taste and odor to contents. Bottles made with food-grade stainless steel (grade 304, also known as 18/8) do not transfer taste or odor.\n\nMetal (especially steel) water bottles can be heavier than their plastic counterparts. Single-walled metal bottles readily transfer temperature of contents to external surfaces, which makes them unsuitable for use with unusually hot or cold liquids. Double-walled metal bottles are insulated to keep cold liquids cold and hot liquids hot, without the external surface being too hot or too cold. Because double-walled bottles have more metal in them, they are more expensive. They are typically vacuum-insulated, but some may have a solid or gel insulation between the metal walls.\n\nGlass flasks have been used since ancient times, though were not common until the Early Modern period when consistent, bulk manufacturing of glass products became easier. Because they are completely recyclable, are BPA-free, and do not retain and transfer taste or odor, glass water bottles are becoming a popular choice again for many consumers concerned about their health.\n\nGlass bottles are heavier than plastic, stainless steel, or aluminium, and are easier to damage or completely break. Like metal, they also have a high level of temperature transfer, so they are not ideal for very hot or cold liquids. Some types of vacuum-insulated flasks use an inner layer of glass (which is easy to clean), and an outer layer of metal or plastic which helps shield the glass from breakage. Such bottles may still break if dropped, and thus some brands are triple-layer, with the glass inside two layers of plastic; this is a common configuration for large flasks intended for coffee or other liquids that need to be insulated.\n\nThis type of bottle is often BPA-Free and more commonly uses carbon (activated charcoal) filtration. UV light can also be used to purify water. UV filtration bottles are popular and convenient for those who are traveling to areas where water quality may be harmful, or where bottled water is not readily available. UV is effective against all water-borne pathogens.\n\nCarbon filtration bottles will eliminate some organic chemicals and improve the taste and odor of water. Carbon filtration will not eliminate pathogens, metals or nitrates from water. Carbon filters must be changed regularly to maintain effectiveness.\n\nConnected devices collect data related to a person's water intake. The data is transmitted to a smartphone, which enables tracking of an individual's water intake and alerts the user when they are not properly hydrated. These devices are a result of recent technology advancements which fall in the broader category of the Internet of Things. Devices that monitor and collect data related to one's personal health are also part of the quantified self movement. While several concepts have been introduced, none are currently available commercially.\n\nHydration reservoirs, also known as hydration bladders, are large-volume, flexible bags typically carried in a backpack system. Users access water via a sipping tube. This system allows the user to remain engaged in activity without having to stop and unscrew a water bottle. Such reservoirs also permit the carrying of a larger water supply (thus a longer hike), as they have both more capacity and better integration into the carrying equipment than an external water bottle or canteen attached to the pack or belt.\n\nDue to growing concern over the environmental impact and cost of disposable plastic water bottles, more people are choosing to fill multi-use water bottles. However, the popularity and availability of disposable plastic water bottles continues to rise. In 2007, Americans consumed 50 billion single-serve bottles of water. Since 2001, the sale of single-serve bottled water has fluctuated by 70 percent, and this trend is continuing. In 2016, a trend among Americans called \"water bottle flipping\" attracted media attention. This trend has since died out and other trends are taking its place.\n\nChemicals used for making some types of bottles have been shown to be detrimental to the health of humans. Inhalation of chemicals used in the manufacture of plastics is a hazard for the factory workers who handle the material. In many developing countries, plastic waste is burned rather than recycled or deposited in landfills. Rural residents of developing countries who burn plastic as a disposal method are not protected from the chemical inhalation hazards associated with this practice. Inhalation of the pollutants produced from burning plastics have been shown to result in poor health outcomes. It is important to dispose of water that has been stored in PET bottles beyond the expiration date because harmful chemicals may leach from the plastic.\n\nBottle manufacturing relies on fossil fuels and natural resources. Some manufacturing processes release toxic chemicals into the air and water supply that can adversely affect nervous systems, blood, kidneys, immune systems, and can cause cancer and birth defects. Most disposable water bottles are made from petroleum derived polyethylene terephthalate (PET). While PET is considered less toxic than many other types of plastic, the Berkeley Ecology Center found that manufacturing PET generates toxic emissions in the form of nickel, ethylbenzene, ethylene oxide and benzene at levels 100 times higher than those created to make the same amount of glass.\n\nWater bottles made of glass, aluminium and steel are the most readily recyclable. HDPE and LDPE bottles can be recycled as well.\n\nBecause the manufacturing and transportation of disposable water bottles requires petroleum, a non-renewable resource, the single-serve bottled water industry has come under pressure from concerned consumers. The Pacific Institute calculates that it required about 17 million barrels of oil to make the disposable plastic bottles for single-serve water that Americans consumed in 2006. To sustain the consumptive use of products relying on plastic components and level of manufactured demand for plastic water bottles, the end result is shortages of fossil fuels. Furthermore, it means not only a shortage of the raw materials to make plastics, but also a shortage of the energy required to fuel their production.\n\nIn recent years, the single-serve bottled water industry has responded to consumer concern about the environmental impact of disposable water bottles by significantly reducing the amount of plastic used in bottles. The reduced plastic content also results in a lower weight product that uses less energy to transport. Other bottle manufacturing companies are experimenting with alternative materials such as corn starch to make new bottles that are more readily biodegradable.\n\nThe lowest impact water bottles are those made of glass or metal. They are not made from petroleum and are easily recyclable. By choosing to continuously fill any multi-use water bottle, the consumer keeps disposable bottles out of the waste stream and minimizes environmental impact.\n\n"}
{"id": "2007787", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007787", "title": "Fred Newman (actor)", "text": "Fred Newman (actor)\n\nFrederick R. Newman (born May 6, 1952) is an American actor, voice actor, composer, comedian, musician, singer, foley artist, and former talk show host.\n\nNewman's first job in New York City was at \"Newsweek\". After doing comedy, Newman soon capitalized on his unique vocalizations, and Peter Workman (Workman Publishing) signed Fred to write the best-selling book \"MouthSounds\" (first published in 1980 with a vinyl record insert, and updated with a CD in 2004). Newman was an actor and sound-effects artist on Garrison Keillor's live radio variety show \"A Prairie Home Companion\". In an audience favorite feature of the program, Keillor tells an apparently impromptu story that is funny because it requires Newman to strain to supply rapid-fire sound effects for unusual occurrences and obscure animals.\n\nNewman was featured in an interview with Jane Pauley on CBS Sunday Morning and the segment was nominated for an Emmy.\n\nHe has also done character voices and sounds effects in numerous film, television and video game credits, including \"Who Framed Roger Rabbit\", \"Doug\" (as Skeeter Valentine, Porkchop, Mr. Dink, and other characters), \"Grand Theft Auto 2\", \"Harry and the Hendersons\", \"Gremlins\", \"Munchies\", \"Storybook World\", \"Wolf\" and \"Men in Black\".\nNewman hosted \"Livewire\", a children's talk show on Nickelodeon in the early 1980s. \"Livewire\" was known for giving bands their first television appearance, including R.E.M. and Split Enz. He was also a host for Nickelodeon's Halloween TV special game, \"Nick or Treat!\"\n\nNewman worked with Jim Henson and the Muppets in the 1980s, first as a contributor to \"Muppet Magazine\", then as the writer of the \"Muppet Show On Tour\" live show. In 1987, Newman played the lead role in Henson's CBS sitcom pilot \"Puppetman\". Newman also appeared in a 1988 Henson direct-to-video special called \"Neat Stuff to Know & to Do\".\n\nPrior to the 2000 Presidential Election, Newman was cast as the voice of Garry Trudeau's comic strip character Duke who ran for president. He provided both voice and motion capture for \"Duke 2000\", a series of online computer animated shorts, and can still be heard in the \"Ask Duke\" interactive game. He also provided the voice of Trudeau's Jimmy Thudpucker character for a NetAid concert.\n\nAs an on-camera performer, he was the co-host (1989–1993) of \"The All New Mickey Mouse Club\" (1989–1994) (with Mowava Pryor or Terri Eoff Misner as the other co-host) that launched the careers of Britney Spears, Keri Russell, Justin Timberlake, Christina Aguilera, JC Chasez and Ryan Gosling among others. Newman can be seen on the PBS reading series \"Between the Lions\", for which he also writes and provides animated voices, and as the conductor on PBS' \"Lomax, the Hound of Music\". Newman won two writing Emmys for \"Between the Lions\". As a musician, he has composed music for the animated series \"Doug\" and \"PB&J Otter\" and wrote songs for \"Doug's 1st Movie\".\n\n\"Chrysopylae\", a symphony commissioned by the Marin Symphony Orchestra to mark the 75th anniversary of the Golden Gate Bridge, was written by composer Rob Kapilow with Newman, who was also the sound effects designer for the Golden Gate Opus. The world premiere was on May 6, 2012, at the Main Veterans' Memorial Auditorium in Marin County, California.\n\nNewman was born in LaGrange, Georgia. He is a 1974 graduate of the University of Georgia, and received an MBA at Harvard Business School in 1978. Fred Newman married Katy Dobbs in 1985, and the couple has two children: Gil John Newman (son) and Lila Claire Newman (daughter). Lila appeared on A Prairie Home Companion (APHC) as an actor and singer at Ravinia in Chicago and at Town Hall in NYC. Lila began contributing sketches and writing to APHC on a weekly basis in November 2013 and receives on-air credits for her work. Lila also writes radio dramas for The Truth. Both of Newman's children are pursuing acting careers. Lila starred as Charlotte 'Cee' Biggs, John Goodman's daughter, on Season 2 of \"Alpha House\" on Amazon Prime.\n\nFred Newman has won four awards:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2007796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007796", "title": "Traffic Department 2192", "text": "Traffic Department 2192\n\nTraffic Department 2192 is a top down shooter game for IBM PC, developed by P-Squared Productions and released in 1994 by Safari Software and distributed by Epic MegaGames. The full game contains three episodes (Alpha, Beta, Gamma), each with twenty missions, in which the player pilots a \"hoverskid\" about a war-torn city to complete certain mission objectives. The game was released as freeware under the Creative Commons License CC BY-ND 3.0 in 2007.\n\nThe player takes on the role of Lieutenant Marta Louise Velasquez, a hot-tempered young pilot working for the Traffic Department in the city of Vulthaven, on the planet Seche, in the year 2192. Since the vile gang known as the Vultures began attempts to take over the planet, the Traffic Department has become the only law-enforcement in the city. As the game's introduction explains, fourteen years earlier, Velasquez saw her father Ric killed by the Vultures while returning from garrison duty.\n\nThe story deals with Velasquez's aggressive attitude towards everybody she meets, apparently caused by the painful memory of her father. Intertwined is a complex science fiction story of cloning, mind control and cybernetics, combined with a tale of betrayal, infiltration, and warfare.\n\nThe game was scored by Robert A. Allen. However, John Pallett-Plowright wrote \"Satair\", and his 13-year-old brother, Michael Pallett-Plowright, also known as Owen Pallett, wrote \"Menu\", \"Vulture\", \"Intro 2\" and \"Death\".\n\nThe most notable aspect of the series is the detailed and often complex script by Christopher Perkins. The game features lengthy cutscenes before and after each of the sixty missions. Each cutscene spans across multiple scenes, giving the game's storyline a reported length of 50,000 words. The cutscenes are made up of conversations between two or more characters on the screen with static 3D images of locations cut between each scene. The game's dialogue features both profanity and sexually-suggestive language, but there is an option at the start of the game to disable all mature content.\n\nOver the years the series has developed a small dedicated fan base that has produced Lego models of the various \"skids\" in the series.\n\n"}
{"id": "2007806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007806", "title": "Ally Financial", "text": "Ally Financial\n\nAlly Financial is a bank holding company organized in Delaware and headquartered in Detroit, Michigan. The company provides financial services including car finance, online banking via a direct bank, corporate lending, vehicle insurance, mortgage loans, and an electronic trading platform to trade financial assets.\n\nAlly is ranked 18th on the list of largest banks in the United States by assets, is the largest car finance company in the U.S. by volume, and serves more than six million customers. Via its SmartAuction online marketplace for auto auctions, launched in 2000, the company has sold more than 5 million vehicles, including 270,000 vehicles sold in 2019.\n\nThe company was known as GMAC, an acronym for General Motors Acceptance Corporation, until 2010.\n\nThe company was founded in 1919 by General Motors (GM) as the General Motors Acceptance Corporation (GMAC) to provide financing to automotive customers. In 1939, the company founded Motors Insurance Corporation and entered the vehicle insurance market.\n\nIn 1985, while GM was under the leadership of Roger Smith, who sought to diversify the company, GMAC formed GMAC Mortgage and acquired Colonial Mortgage as well as the servicing arm of Norwest Mortgage, which included an $11 billion mortgage portfolio.\n\nIn 1991, the company was forced to write-off $275 million in bad debt as part of a $436 million loss suffered from fraud committed by John McNamara, who ran a Ponzi scheme.\n\nIn 1998, the company formed GMAC Real Estate. In 1999, GMAC Mortgage acquired Ditech. In 2000, the company formed GMAC Bank, a direct bank. In 2005, the company formed GMAC ResCap as a holding company for its mortgage operations.\n\nIn 2006, General Motors sold a 51% interest in GMAC to Cerberus Capital Management, a private equity firm. Also that year, GMAC sold a controlling interest of GMAC Commercial Holdings (its real estate division renamed Capmark) to Goldman Sachs, Kohlberg Kravis Roberts, and Five Mile Capital Partners. GMAC Real Estate was sold to Brookfield Asset Management. In 2009, Capmark filed for bankruptcy and its North American loan origination and servicing business was acquired by Berkadia, a joint venture of Leucadia National and Berkshire Hathaway.\n\nOn December 24, 2008, the Federal Reserve accepted the company's application to become a bank holding company. In January 2009, the company shut down Nuvell Financial Services, its subprime lending division.\n\nAs a result of losses in GMAC ResCap, the United States Department of the Treasury invested $17.2 billion in the company in 2008–2009. The Treasury sold its last stake in the company in 2014, recovering $19.6 billion from its $17.2 billion investment.\n\nIn May 2010, GMAC re-branded itself as Ally Financial. In September 2010, the company sold its resort finance business to Centerbridge Partners. In 2012, the company sold its Canadian banking operations to Royal Bank of Canada for $3.8 billion. In April 2014, it became a public company via an initial public offering. In 2015, it moved its headquarters to One Detroit Center, which was subsequently renamed Ally Detroit Center. In June 2016, the company acquired TradeKing, a stockbrokerage, for $275 million, which was re-branded as Ally Invest.\n\nIn 2016, the company moved more than 1,500 employees to 13 floors of Ally Detroit Center. In 2017, Ally signed a lease for 400,000 square feet at the Ally Charlotte Center in Charlotte, North Carolina, scheduled to be completed in 2021, and will move its offices from 440 South Church.\n\nIn 2020, the company reported a net loss for the first quarter of the year, reportedly due to the Coronavirus recession. The company was the first large bank in the United States to report a net loss, claiming a net loss of roughly $319 million. By contrast, the company reported a net income of $374 million in the first quarter of 2019.\n\nThe company sponsors the Miami International Auto Show and the Time Magazine Quality Dealer Award.\n\nIn 2019, Ally became the primary sponsor for seven-time NASCAR Cup Series champion Jimmie Johnson at Hendrick Motorsports. As GMAC, the company previously had primary sponsorships with Hendrick Motorsports from 1998 through 2007 with drivers Jack Sprague, Ricky Hendrick, Brian Vickers and Casey Mears, including Vickers' 2003 NASCAR Busch Series championship victory. On October 4, 2019, Ally extended its sponsorship of the No. 48 team for three more years through the 2023 season.\n\nAlly is also the primary sponsor for the new MLS team in Charlotte, NC starting play in 2021.\n\nIn December 2013, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) and United States Department of Justice ordered the company to pay $80 million in consumer monetary damages and $18 million in civil penalties after determining that 235,000 minority borrowers paid higher interest rates for auto loans originated between April 2011 and December 2013 because of the company's discriminatory pricing system. The higher rates resulted from the company's specific policy of allowing dealers to charge, at their discretion, a \"dealer markup\" above Ally's established \"buy rate\" and then compensating dealers based on the markup. Ally provided an incentive for dealers to charge higher rates, which disproportionately affected minority borrowers, in violation of the Equal Credit Opportunity Act.\n"}
{"id": "2007814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007814", "title": "Anakes", "text": "Anakes\n\nAnakes were deities worshipped in Attica and Argos. The word is a title which means \"lords\" or \"kings\", for they were the sons of Zeus (and were also known as Dioscuri). Some have associated the Anake(s) cult with worship of the goddess Helen. It is also possible that the name refers to three specific gods, but evidence for this is faint.\n\n"}
{"id": "2007816", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007816", "title": "Mac.Robertson Girls' High School", "text": "Mac.Robertson Girls' High School\n\nThe Mac.Robertson Girls' High School (also known simply as Mac.Rob or MGHS) is a government-funded single-sex academically selective secondary day school, located in the Melbourne CBD, Victoria, Australia. Entry for Mac.Rob, which is operated by the Victoria Department of Education, is by competitive academic examination. It is unique in its status as a statewide provider for girls in Year Nine to Year Twelve. The equivalent for boys is its brother school, Melbourne High School. Each year, over 3,000 candidates will sit the entrance examination for a total of approximately 960 places (across all four schools).\n\nIn 2001, \"The Sun-Herald\" ranked the Mac.Robertson Girls' High School sixth in Australia's top ten girls' schools, based on the number of its alumnae mentioned in the \"Who's Who in Australia\". The Mac.Robertson Girls' High School has a long tradition of academic excellence with Victorian Certificate of Education (VCE) scores propelling the school to be ranked first in the State of Victoria for seven consecutive years from 2002 to 2008, inclusive. The school was ranked third in 2009, but reclaimed its No. 1 ranking once again in 2010, 2011, 2013 and 2018. Mac.Robertson Girls' High School's 2015 VCE results has been ranked first out of all state secondary government schools in Victoria based on the Median Study Score and Study Score 40+. Median Study Score was 38 and 38.2% all study scores were at or above 40.\n\nThe school provides an educational experience that equips girls for tertiary study and leadership roles in academic, professional and business communities, and develops interests and skills to enhance their personal lives. The school has a prestigious history, tracing its origins to the establishment of the first Victorian state secondary school in 1905. Its many eminent former students provide strong role models and inspiration for current students.\n\nThe Mac.Robertson Girls' High School began as Melbourne Continuation School, the first government funded school in the state of Victoria, established in 1905 in Spring Street, Melbourne. In 1912, it was renamed Melbourne High School. Originally a co-educational school, the school was segregated by sexes in 1927, with the boys moving to Melbourne Boys' High School in Forrest Hill, South Yarra, Victoria.\n\nGirls continued to be educated in the school on Spring Street, renamed as Melbourne Girls' High School, until the building was condemned in 1930. The school was housed in the then-vacant Government House until 1933, when they moved to State School No. 1689 in King Street. In 1934, with the help of a donation from Macpherson Robertson, a new building was constructed the north-east corner of Albert Park Reserve. The school opened as the Mac.Robertson Girls' High School on 7 November 1934. The school was used as U.S Army Headquarters in 1942 and later by the R.A.A.F. The students took their classes at Brighton Road State School, Camberwell East Girls' School, and University High School during this period.\n\nThe building gained a national trust classification in 1987. It was previously gazetted as an Historic Building in 1982. The school celebrated its centenary year in 2005 with Melbourne High School in a joined assembly. Mac.Rob celebrated by inviting Premier of Victoria Steve Bracks to witness the restarting of the school clock tower (which coincidentally would not start when the time came).\n\nThe school operates in a two sub-school structure. The middle school caters for students in years 9 and 10, whilst the senior school caters for students in years 11 and 12. The school's enrolment across all four-year levels totals to approximately 950 to 960 students every year. A quota of 250-year 9 students are selected for enrolment every year through the year 8 entrance examination. The year 10 cohort adds another class of 25 into the year level bringing the total to 275 students. The size of both the year 11 and 12 cohorts vary slightly each year, totalling to more than 275 students each year, including the intake of few students into Year 11. \n\nIn Year Nine, students are offered two electives per semester, with core subjects Maths, English, Science, Physical Education, School Singing compulsory for the entire year. Students have a semester each of Geography and History.\n\nYear Ten students must take the core subjects English, Physical Education, Mathematics, and one language, but are also offered a selection of electives, categorised into Science, Arts/Technology, and Humanities. They choose one elective from each category and may study a Year 11 Units 1/2 subject in preparation for VCE. Electives offered include Women and Madness, Linguistics, Advanced Food and Architecture.\n\nYear Eleven students must complete six subjects at school regardless of any external LOTE. Students can only undertake a maximum of two VCE subjects before Year Twelve providing their GPA from Year Nine and Ten is high enough. Many students choose to take Biology 3/4, Mathematical Methods 3/4 and/or and External LOTE language such as Chinese, Korean or Vietnamese. \n\nStudents in Year Twelve generally undertake four to five VCE 3/4 subjects. A maximum of 6 subjects are allowed to be undertaken at Mac.Rob.\n\nThe four houses and their associated colours are:\n\nNereids official colour is white, although throughout the years it has come to adopt purple as its secondary colour.\n\nNotable alumnae from the school include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2007817", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007817", "title": "Nutty Royale", "text": "Nutty Royale\n\nThe Nutty Royale is an ice cream-based frozen snack made by H.P. Hood LLC dairy company. \n\nIt consists of a chilled ice cream cone filled with vanilla ice cream with a topping of chocolate sauce or fudge and a sprinkling of nut shards.\nIt is similar to the \"Drumstick\" produced by Nestle. The \"Royale\" can be found in boxes of 4 or 8.\n"}
{"id": "2007840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007840", "title": "Sipper water bottle", "text": "Sipper water bottle\n\nA sipper water bottle is a type of bottle used to dispense water for certain pets including rabbits, ferrets, hamsters, chinchillas, gerbils, and other small animals. Typically a sipper bottle consists of a plastic portion used to contain the water, a plastic cap, and a metal tube with a ball bearing inside. \n\nThe vacuum formed by the presence of the ball bearing keeps water from flowing out of the bottle. An animal can interrupt this vacuum by pressing against the ball bearing and forcing it slightly up the tube—thus an animal can drink from the bottle by licking the metal ball bearing.\n\nA water bottle can be affixed to the side of an animal's cage from the outside (using the wire that normally comes with the bottle) or from the inside (using a separate water bottle holder utilizing a suction cup or a metal support, both of which can be purchased at most pet stores).\n\nThough water bottles are most commonly used for pocket pets such as rodents, rabbits, and ferrets, any mammal can be trained to use a water bottle large enough for it.\n"}
{"id": "2007841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007841", "title": "Hotheaded Naked Ice Borer", "text": "Hotheaded Naked Ice Borer\n\nThe Hotheaded Naked Ice Borer is a fictional animal invented by \"Discover\" magazine as an April Fool's Day joke.\n\nA short article on the Hotheaded Naked Ice Borer first appeared in the April 1995 issue of \"Discover\" magazine. The article was written by Tim Folger, then an editor at the magazine. Folger wrote several other April Fool stories for the magazine, including a basketball-sized particle named the \"bigon\", and the discovery of prehistoric musical instruments— rhinoceros bladder bagpipes, a mastodon-tusk tuba, and a bone triangle—supposedly used by Neanderthals.\n\nThe article carried a purported photo of a Naked mole rat-like creature with a bony growth protruding from its head. According to the article, this animal had recently been discovered in Antarctica. The bony structure was suffused with tiny blood vessels that would heat it to a temperature high enough to melt through the ice. To acquire food, a group of these animals would burrow into the ice underneath suitable prey, and use their heads to melt through. When the animal, usually a penguin, sank helplessly into the water, the group of Borers would devour it. It was even speculated in the article that Antarctic explorer \"Philippe Poisson\" (\"poisson d'avril\", \"April fish,\" is the French equivalent of \"April fool\") may have been eaten by a group of these animals when he disappeared in 1837.\n\nA clue that indicated that the Ice Borer story was a hoax can be found in the name of the biologist who discovered the animal, \"Aprile Pazzo\" (\"April Fool\" in Italian). Cleber Redondo, a deputy art director, created image by digitally manipulating an image of a naked mole-rat, adding fangs and a \"bony growth\" (based on a trilobite) with a \"red-hot\" front edge.\n\n\"Discover\" magazine received more mail about this article than about any other article it had ever published. A number of zoo officials and scientists sent humorous letters to the magazine asking how they could acquire specimens of the creature. \"Ripley's Believe It or Not!\" picked up the story and ran it as a real news item. The story was repeated as true in \"The Unofficial X-Files Companion\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2007844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007844", "title": "Spencer Compton, 2nd Marquess of Northampton", "text": "Spencer Compton, 2nd Marquess of Northampton\n\nSpencer Joshua Alwyne Compton, 2nd Marquess of Northampton (2 January 1790 – 17 January 1851), known as Lord Compton from 1796 to 1812 and as Earl Compton from 1812 to 1828, was a British nobleman and patron of science and the arts.\n\nThe second son of the 9th Earl of Northampton (later the First Marquess), Compton studied at Trinity College, Cambridge, receiving a Master of Arts degree in 1810. In 1812, following the assassination of his cousin, the prime minister Spencer Perceval, Compton, by now Earl Compton as heir to the Marquessate, took his seat for Northampton in the House of Commons. \n\nIn the Commons, Compton established a reputation as something of a maverick. Despite his family's strong Tory credentials, he often voted against the Tory government of the day. This led to his losing his seat in the general election of 1820.\n\nAfter 1820 Compton took up residence in Italy, where his house became a centre of attraction, and exercised his influence in favour of many of the unfortunate victims of despotic authority both in Lombardy and in Naples. He returned to England in 1830, and became a prominent figure in political and cultural life. He supported the Reform Bill in the House of Lords, but became more engaged in promoting the arts and sciences.\n\nIn 1820–22 he was president of the Geological Society of London. He served as president of the Archaeological Institute of Great Britain and Ireland (1845–46 and 1850–51), and in 1838 became president of the Royal Society, an office he held for ten years. \nHe took a particular interest in geology, especially in fossils, although he was not himself a scientist, but more of an interested amateur. The dinosaur species \"Regnosaurus northamptoni\" was named after him. He resigned in 1848, due to his opposition to the Society's increasing professionalization. Compton was elected a Foreign Honorary Member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1846. He held the position of President of the Royal Society of Literature from 1849 until his death.\n\nHe died on 17 January 1851, and was buried at Castle Ashby on 25 January.\n\nOn 24 July 1815 Compton married Margaret Douglas-Maclean-Clephane, who was a poet admired by Sir Walter Scott and William Wordsworth, although her poetry was not published. The marriage was a happy one, producing six children. The couple lived in Italy for ten years from 1820 to 1830. Compton succeeded his father as Marquess of Northampton in 1828. Following Lady Northampton's death in 1830, Northampton returned to England. Among their children were:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2007860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007860", "title": "Albatross (instrumental)", "text": "Albatross (instrumental)\n\n\"Albatross\" is a guitar-based instrumental by Fleetwood Mac, released as a single in November 1968, later featuring on the compilation albums \"The Pious Bird of Good Omen\" (UK) and \"English Rose\" (US). The piece was composed by Peter Green.\n\nSanto & Johnny's \"Sleep Walk\" (1959) reportedly inspired Peter Green for his 1968 instrumental \"Albatross\", although the composition also resembles Chuck Berry's 1957 instrumental \"Deep Feeling\", itself derivative of the 1939 recording \"Floyd's Guitar Blues\" by Andy Kirk and his 12 Clouds of Joy, featuring guitarist Floyd Smith. In Green's biography [Celmins 1998], an early inspiration for \"Albatross\" was said to have been \"a group of notes from an Eric Clapton solo, played slower.\"\n\nThe composition and its arrangement suggest a relaxing sea setting, with cymbals imitating the sound of waves (Mick Fleetwood played his drum kit using timpani mallets to give a muted sound) and a dreamy solo from Green's guitar. It contains four chords, E, Emaj7 (or G#m/E), A/E, and F#m, played by Green on his Fender Stratocaster into a Matamp Series 2000. Green had been working on the piece for some time before the addition to the band of 18-year-old guitarist Danny Kirwan. Slide guitarist Jeremy Spencer was not generally inclined to work with Green, who had felt unable to realise the overall effect that he wanted. With Kirwan's input, Green completed the piece and it was recorded just two months after Kirwan joined, without Spencer present. Although he was not a part of the recording sessions, Spencer was shown in video material miming to Green's slide guitar parts. Kirwan's instrumental \"Jigsaw Puzzle Blues\" was chosen for the B-side in most territories. \"Albatross\" has been re-released many times as a single in various countries, with many different B-sides.\n\nThis composition is one of only a few tracks by the original line-up of Fleetwood Mac that is included on their later \"greatest hits\" and \"best of\" compilations. Many of their compilations only focus on hits from the 1970s and 1980s. However, other compositions from that period have gone on to become classic recordings in the hands of other performers – \"Black Magic Woman\" as recorded by Santana for example. Another example, \"Oh Well\" has gone on to become a rock standard. \"Albatross\" is the only Fleetwood Mac composition with the distinction of having inspired a Beatles song, \"Sun King\" from 1969's \"Abbey Road\".\n\nThe song was a success in several countries and remains Fleetwood Mac's only number-one hit in the UK Singles Chart, spending one week at the top in January 1969.\n\n\"Albatross\" was re-released in the United Kingdom as a double A-sided single with \"Need Your Love So Bad\" in April 1973. This re-release was part of a CBS Records series entitled \"Hall of Fame Hits\". As a result of the re-release, \"Albatross\" enjoyed a second UK chart run, peaking at number 2.\n\nAs of 2019, \"Albatross\" has sold over 900,000 copies in the UK.\n\n\nOne of the earliest uses of the tune was on the soundtrack for the Rainer Werner Fassbinder sci-fi virtual reality film \"World on a Wire\" (1973). It was featured (along with \"Jigsaw Puzzle Blues\") in 1979's \"Rock 'n' Roll High School\". It was also used by the BBC as the theme music to a long running travel programme in the 1960s and '70s.\n\nIn March 2005, \"Q\" magazine placed it at number 37 in its list of the 100 Greatest Guitar Tracks.\n\nThe piece was used as the background music to Marks & Spencer's 2005 advertising campaign. The song was used again by Marks & Spencer in 2019.\n\nApart from being used in \"World on a Wire\", the track can also be heard in the film \"Man on Wire\" about Philippe Petit's 1974 high-wire walk between the Twin Towers of New York's World Trade Center.\n\nThe distinctive slide guitar motif is a recurring theme on The KLF's 1990 album \"Chill Out\".\n\nThe tune was covered by a German ambient musical project B-Tribe on their album \"Suave Suave\" in 1995.\n"}
{"id": "2007862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007862", "title": "Convention of 1832", "text": "Convention of 1832\n\nThe Convention of 1832 was the first political gathering of colonists in Mexican Texas. Delegates sought reforms from the Mexican government and hoped to quell the widespread belief that settlers in Texas wished to secede from Mexico. The convention was the first in a series of unsuccessful attempts at political negotiation that eventually led to the Texas Revolution. \n\nUnder the 1824 Constitution of Mexico, Texas was denied independent statehood and merged into the new state Coahuila y Tejas. After growing suspicion that the United States government would attempt to seize Texas by force, in 1830 Mexican President Anastasio Bustamante enacted the Law of April 6, 1830 which restricted immigration and called for customs duty enforcement. Tensions erupted in June 1832, when Texas residents systematically expelled all Mexican troops from eastern Texas.\n\nThe lack of military oversight emboldened the colonists to increase their political activity. On October 1, 1832, 55 political delegates met at San Felipe de Austin to petition for changes in the governance of Texas. Notably absent was any representation from San Antonio de Béxar, where many of the native Mexican settlers (\"Tejanos\") lived. The delegates elected Stephen F. Austin, a highly respected \"empresario\", as president of the convention.\n\nDelegates passed a series of resolutions requesting, among other things, a repeal of the immigration restrictions, a three-year exclusion from customs duties enforcement, permission to form an armed militia and independent statehood. They also voted themselves the power to call future conventions. Before the petition could be delivered to Mexico City, the political chief of Texas, Ramón Músquiz, ruled that the convention was illegal and annulled the resolutions. In a compromise, the \"ayuntamiento\" (city council) of San Antonio de Béxar drafted a new petition with similar language to the convention resolutions and submitted it through proper legal channels. Músquiz forwarded the new document to the Mexican Congress.\n\nIn 1821 several of Spain's former colonies in the New World won their independence and banded together to create a new country, Mexico. The Constitution of 1824 established Mexico as a federalist republic comprising multiple states. Sparsely populated former Spanish provinces were denied independent statehood and instead merged with neighboring areas. The former Spanish Texas, which marked Mexico's eastern border with the United States, was combined with Coahuila to form the new state Coahuila y Tejas. To assist in governing the large area, the state was subdivided into several departments; all of Texas was included in the Department of Béxar. With the formation of a new state government, the Texas provincial governing committee was forced to disband, and the capital was moved from San Antonio de Béxar to Saltillo. Many \"Tejanos\"—native Mexican citizens who lived in Texas—were reluctant to give up their self-rule.\n\nThe bankrupt federal government was unable to provide much military assistance to the settlers in Texas, who faced frequent raids by native tribes. Hoping that an influx of settlers could control the raids, in 1824 the government-appointed \"empresarios\" to encourage families from the United States and Europe to settle in Texas. However, as the number of settlers from the US and other non-Spanish-speaking areas increased in Texas, Mexican authorities became apprehensive that the United States might wish to annex the area, possibly using force. On April 6, 1830, the Mexican government passed a series of laws restricting immigration from the United States into Texas. The laws also canceled all unfilled \"empresario\" contracts and called for the first enforcement of customs duties.\nThe new laws angered both \"Tejanos\" and recent immigrants (Texians). Stephen F. Austin, a well-respected \"empresario\" who had brought the first group of American settlers to Texas, warned Mexican President Anastasio Bustamante that the laws seemed designed to destroy the colonies. Texas's two delegates to the state legislature, both \"Tejanos\", were so vocal in their opposition that one of them was expelled from the legislature. Austin was elected to fill his seat, and in December 1830 he left for Saltillo.\n\nImplementation of the laws led to much tension within Texas. Much to the displeasure of the colonists, a new military post was established in Anahuac to begin collecting customs duties. The commander of the post, Colonel Juan Davis Bradburn, often clashed with the locals over his strict interpretation of Mexican law. In June 1832, colonists armed themselves and marched on Anahuac. As a result of these Anahuac Disturbances, Bradburn was forced to resign.\n\nThe small Texian rebellion coincided with a revolt led by General Antonio López de Santa Anna against Bustamante's centralist government. The chaos in the Mexican interior and the Texian success at Anahuac emboldened other Texas settlers to take arms against garrisons throughout eastern Texas. Within weeks, settlers expelled all Mexican soldiers from eastern Texas. Free from military oversight, the settlers began to increase their political activity.\n\nBuoyed by their success, Texians organized a political convention to persuade Mexican authorities to weaken the L830. On August 22, the \"ayuntamiento\" at San Felipe de Austin (the capital of Austin's colony) called for each district to elect five delegates. Although Austin attempted to dissuade the instigators, elections were held before his return from Saltillo. Sixteen communities chose delegates. The two municipalities with the largest \"Tejano\" population, San Antonio de Béxar and Victoria, refused to participate. The majority of the elected delegates were known as relatively even-tempered. Many known agitators, such as James Bowie and William B. Travis, were defeated. \"Tejanos\" did not have a large presence at the convention, largely due to the boycott by the Béxar and Victoria municipalities. Convention organizers invited several prominent \"Tejanos\" from these towns to attend, but all declined.\n\nOn October 1, 1832, 55 delegates met in San Felipe de Austin; attendance may have been diminished due to the short notice. The gathering marked the first time residents from each of the colonies had convened to discuss common goals.\n\nThe convention was called to order by John Austin, one of the \"alcaldes\" of San Felipe de Austin. In his remarks, John Austin laid out four key points that the convention needed to address: the \"misrepresentations\" made by \"enemies of Texas\" that the settlers desired independence from Mexico, an appeal of the restrictions on immigration from the United States, a method to grant land titles to residents in certain areas of the province, and reduction of tariffs on many imported items. The first order of business was the election of officers. Stephen F. Austin and William H. Wharton, a known hothead, were nominated to lead the convention; Austin won, 31–15. Frank W. Johnson, who had led the armed resistance at the Anahuac Disturbances, was elected secretary. In his acceptance speech, Austin praised the delegates for exerting their constitutional rights to petition the government.\n\nOver the next six days, the delegates adopted a series of resolutions requesting changes in the governance of Texas. Historian Eugene Campbell Barker suggests that the discussions would likely not have concluded so swiftly unless the delegates had done \"considerable preparation before the meeting\". Several of the resolutions were designed to stimulate the local economy. Delegates requested that customs duty enforcement be delayed until 1835 and that citizens be granted a method to remove corrupt customs officers. Resolutions encouraged that land titles be issued more quickly and that public lands be sold to raise money for bilingual schools. Delegates from Nacogdoches asked that the government take a firmer hand in preventing new settlers from encroaching on lands that had previously been promised to native tribes. After explaining that law-abiding potential citizens were being excluded from Texas while disreputable squatters continued to stream illegally in, the delegates asked for the repeal of the prohibition on immigration from the United States. Furthermore, they requested permission to raise a militia, ostensibly for protection from marauding native tribes. The most controversial resolution asked that Texas become an independent state, separate from Coahuila. The separation request was added by a vote of 36–12. The motion included as justification the fact that Coahuila and Texas were very dissimilar in climate and economy and mentioned that Texas's limited representation in the state legislature made it very difficult to enact laws that specifically addressed the needs of its citizens. Delegates insisted that independent statehood was not a pretext for secession from Mexico.\n\nAfter approving the list of resolutions, delegates created a seven-member central committee to convene future meetings. The central committee would be based in San Felipe \"for the purpose of circulating information of events of importance to the interest of the people\". In addition, each municipality was asked to create a committee of correspondence and safety. The sub-committees would keep in close contact with the central committee because \"united our strength and resources are more than adequate to our defense in any possible event. Disunited, we may become an easy prey, even to a handful of cowardly invaders.\"\n\nThe convention adjourned on October 6 after unanimously electing Wharton to deliver the resolutions to the state legislature in Saltillo and to the Mexican Congress in Mexico City. Just before the group dispersed, Rafael Manchola, the \"alcalde\" (mayor) of Goliad, arrived. He was the only delegate from Goliad and the only \"Tejano\" to appear at the convention. Manchola volunteered to accompany Wharton at his own expense—he and other delegates thought the expedition might have more success if a \"Tejano\" was also involved. Days later, Austin wrote that \"we have just had a convention of all Texas, native Mexicans and foreign settlers—all united as one man\".\n\nFollowing the convention, much of the unrest in Texas subsided. Austin believed the public was calmed simply by having the opportunity to air their grievances. Before the list of concerns could be presented to the state and federal governments, Ramón Músquiz, the political chief, or head, of the Department of Béxar, ruled that the convention was illegal. This type of activism was traditionally forbidden in Texas. The law directed that citizens should protest to their local \"ayuntamiento\" (similar to a city council), which would forward their concerns to the political chief. The political chief could then escalate the concerns to the state or federal government. Because the colonists had not followed this process, Músquiz annulled their resolutions. The \"ayuntamientos\" at San Felipe, Nacogdoches, Gonzales and Liberty half-heartedly apologized for their participation, and Wharton's mission was cancelled.\n\nThe lack of \"Tejano\" representation and the San Antonio de Béxar residents' refusal to participate fostered a perception that only newcomers to Texas were dissatisfied. Austin agreed to meet with the political leaders in San Antonio de Béxar to persuade them to support the resolutions. These \"Tejano\" leaders, including Erasmo Seguin, largely agreed with the result of the convention but opposed the methods by which the resolutions had been proposed. The \"Tejano\" leaders urged patience; Bustamante was still president and would not look favorably on a petition from Texas settlers who had sided with his rival, Santa Anna.\n\nAustin and the \"Tejano\" leaders agreed to a compromise. Because San Antonio de Béxar was the seat of the Department of Béxar, its \"ayuntamiento\" drafted a petition containing similar language to the convention resolutions. The petition was endorsed by the \"ayuntamientos\" at Goliad, San Felipe, and Nacogdoches and then given to Músquiz, who forwarded it to the Mexican Congress in early 1833. Although Músquiz had publicly supported the petition, he secretly included a note to the Coahuila y Tejas governor warning that this might be a precursor to secession.\n\nThe political leaders also agreed to Austin's stipulation that if the federal government refused to address the petition within several months, Texas residents would form their own state government, essentially declaring independence from Coahuila, if not from Mexico. The central committee elected by the convention was too impatient to wait long. In late December, the committee called for a March election for delegates to the Convention of 1833. The second convention reiterated some of the previous concerns and took additional steps to declare Texas an independent state, further concerning Mexican authories, who feared this was a step towards Texas joining the United States.\n\nThe Mexican government attempted to address some of the concerns identified by the conventions of 1832 and 1833. In November 1833, part of the Laws of April 6, 1830 were repealed, allowing Americans to immigrate legally to Texas. Several months later, Texas was granted increased representation in the Coahuila y Tejas legislature. Several American legal concepts, such as trial by jury, were introduced to Texas, and English was authorized as a second language. Unimpressed with these compromises, some Texas residents continued to campaign for independent statehood. Rising tensions eventually led to the Texas Revolution, which began in October 1835.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2007865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007865", "title": "Cragus (mythology)", "text": "Cragus (mythology)\n\nCragus or Kragos is a Lycian god identified with Zeus, and humanized into a son of Tremiles. It is after Cragus that Mount Cragus was named. Cragus was worshiped as the god of victory and strength.\n"}
{"id": "2007870", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007870", "title": "Plaid Tongued Devils", "text": "Plaid Tongued Devils\n\nThe Plaid Tongued Devils are a Canadian musical group. Their music combines Roma, Klezmer, Ska, Rock and Jazz.\n\nThe Plaid Tongued Devils began as an alternative country duet with singer Ty Semaka and guitarist Alan Kolodziejzyk in 1990. The group expanded to a five piece band in 1992. \n\nIn 1998, the Devils began to develop a new style of music which they dubbed \"romaklezkarock\", combining Roma, Klezmer, Ska, Rock and Jazz. In 1999 they recorded the soundtrack for the musical \"Klezskavania\", which was performed for the One Yellow Rabbit Theatre Company in Calgary.\n\nThe band's 2002 album, \"Belladonna\", featured violinist Jonathan Lewis and percussionists Chip Robb and John McNeil.\n\nThe group regularly tours in Canada and the Netherlands. Some members of the group have written and recorded songs for OpenBSD CD releases.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2007874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007874", "title": "Crime &amp; the City Solution", "text": "Crime &amp; the City Solution\n\nCrime & the City Solution are an Australian rock music band formed in late 1977 by singer-songwriter and mainstay Simon Bonney. They disbanded in 1979 leaving only bootleg recordings and demos, now extremely rare. In late 1983, Bonney traveled to London and in 1985 he formed a new version of the group in the U.K. which included members of the recently disbanded The Birthday Party; later they transferred to Berlin, where they issued four albums – \"Room of Lights\" (1986), \"Shine\" (1988), \"The Bride Ship\" (1989) and \"Paradise Discotheque\" (1990) – before disbanding again in 1991. In 2012 Bonney reformed the band in Detroit with two veterans of its Berlin era and a handful of new members.\n\nCritic David Sheridan described the band's music as characterized by slow tempos, dark moods and Bonney's forlorn vocals, all of which can range from \"endurance testing\" at worst to \"hauntingly beautiful\" at best.\n\nCrime & the City Solution are an Australian rock group which formed in late 1977 in Sydney with a line-up of Simon Bonney on lead vocals, Phil Kitchener on bass guitar, Dave MacKinnon on saxophone, Don McLennan (ex-Particles) on drums and Harry Zantey on guitar. The group has had five distinct line-ups with Bonney as the only mainstay: Sydney in 1977–78, Melbourne in 1979, two groupings in Berlin from 1985 to 1990, and Detroit from 2012 onwards. In the late 1970s Bonney had met McLennan and sometimes provided guest vocals for McLennan's group, The Particles. According to Australian rock music historian, Ian McFarlane, The Particles had \"a cult following around the inner-city Sydney scene courtesy of its delightful, melodious pop sound\". In contrast, according to Peter Nelson of \"Pulp\" fanzine, Crime & the City Solution, used \"An exciting blend of fuzzed monotone guitar runs and squawking saxophone riffs . . . [like] the drone songs on Wire's \"Pink Flag\"\".\n\nIn late 1978 Bonney and McLennan had relocated to Melbourne where they formed a new version of Crime & the City Solution with Chris Astley on keyboards, Kim Beissel on saxophone, Lindsay O'Meara on bass guitar (ex-Voigt/465) and Dan Wallace-Crabbe on guitar. In Melbourne Bonney became friends with local post-punk group, The Boys Next Door (later known as The Birthday Party). Crime & the City Solution broke up in 1979 after a number of live shows and recording an unreleased demo. Wallace-Crabbe later joined Laughing Clowns, O'Meara returned to Sydney and joined Pel Mel, Beissel played in → ↑ →, Astley and McLennan in other bands.\n\nIn late 1983 Bonney moved to London and reconnected with members of The Birthday Party. In 1985 he formed another version of Crime & the City Solution in London with Mick Harvey on drums, keyboards and bass guitar and Rowland S. Howard on guitar and backing vocals. Howard's younger brother, Harry, soon joined on bass guitar. In June 1985 the group's debut four-track EP, \"The Dangling Man\", was released by Mute Records in the UK and Possum Records in Australia. McFarlane found the EP provided \"a gloomy, stripped-down, blues-flavoured sound\". A six-track EP, \"Just South of Heaven\", followed in September for UK release only. It was \"cleaner, more powerful set of songs dominated by Bonney's dramatic vocals and chilling instrumentation\". After the release Epic Soundtracks (aka Kevin Godfrey, ex-Swell Maps) joined on drums which freed Harvey to concentrate on keyboards and guitar. In 1986 Bronwyn Adams, Bonney's domestic partner, joined on violin and backing vocals.\n\nWith the line-up of Adams, Bonney, Harvey, Rowland and Harry Howard, and Soundtracks, Crime & the City Solution recorded its debut album, \"Room of Lights\", produced by the band, Flood and Tony Cohen. They recorded the album in Berlin. On 27 October 1986 it was released in the UK on Mute Records. Amy Hanson of Allmusic praised it as \"rough and ready rock that slotted itself nicely under a gothic canvas – they were and remain post-punk's forgotten kings ... Its urgency jangles, its cacophony is dichotomous, and, at times, the underlying energy is breathtaking as the band storms through a great set\". Late that year the Howard brothers and Soundtracks left to form their own group, These Immortal Souls.\n\nIn 1987 Adams, Bonney and Harvey recruited Chrislo Haas (D.A.F., Liaisons Dangereuses) on synthesiser, Alexander Hacke (Einstürzende Neubauten) on guitar and Thomas Stern on bass guitar. In Australia in March 1988, Rampant Records issued a compilation, \"Room of Lights\", with tracks from the UK releases, \"Just South of Heaven\" and \"Room of Lights\". On 25 April that year Crime & the City Solution issued their second album, \"Shine\", which Allmusic's Ned Raggett felt was \"a touch less classically smooth and arranged, more rough around the edges and jagged, especially with Bonney's delivery ... his lyrics come across as distinctly unfriendly to a usual verse/chorus structure, sounding like a spoken-word recitation sung a line at a time\". In November Craig Lee described their performance at Bogart's for the \"Los Angeles Times\", \"For what is purportedly a loosely structured outfit, this group displayed a remarkable cohesiveness. At times the band has the earthy feel of both old blues and country sounds and the slightly mystical aura of the early Doors. But rather than rehash time-worn styles, the Solution translates these forms into its own introspective idioms\".\n\nOn 17 April 1989 Crime & the City Solution released their third album, \"The Bride Ship\", for which Raggett found them \"continue carving its own strange path. ... Harvey doubtless contributes most of the organ work. Simon Bonney continues to evolve into more of his own man – if anything, he's embracing country and western more explicitly in his singing style\". \"The Bride Ship\" was issued in Australia by BMG and Arista Records. Alternative rocker Mark Lanegan cites \"Shine\" as one of his favourite albums, \"[it] is succinct and is great from start to finish. There’s a great sense of space on this record that’s fantastic but the thing that I’m most drawn to is the melancholy on some of those songs. But it also has a cinematic quality\".\n\nOn 3 September 1990 Crime & the City Solution's fourth studio album, \"Paradise Discotheque\", appeared. It had been recorded between November 1989 to March 1990 and was produced by Haas. The group disbanded late in 1991 and on 4 October 1993 a live album, \"The Adversary – Live\", was released. By 1991 Bonney had moved to Los Angeles where he released two solo albums, \"Forever\" (1992) and \"Everyman\" (1994).\n\nIn late 2011, Bonney was based in Detroit and announced that Crime & the City Solution would re-form to record a new album for Mute Records in 2012. Personnel are Bonney, Adams, Hacke, David Eugene Edwards (of US bands 16 Horsepower and Woven Hand), Detroit musician Troy Gregory, Matthew Smith, Jim White (of the Australian group Dirty Three), and Danielle de Picciotto (married to Hacke). Recording occurred in Detroit.\n\n\n\n\n\nSydney 1977–1978\n\nMelbourne 1979\n\nBerlin/London 1985–1986 \n\nBerlin 1987–1991\n\nDetroit 2012 -\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2007884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007884", "title": "Rodents as pets", "text": "Rodents as pets\n\nA pocket pet is a small, \"pocket-sized\" pet mammal (sometimes also categorized as a small and furry in the pet industry) commonly kept as a household pet. The most common pocket pets are rodents such as hamsters (golden hamsters and dwarf hamsters), gerbils (Mongolian jirds and duprasi gerbils), common degus, fancy mice, fancy rats, common chinchillas, and guinea pigs (cavies). The term also includes exotic pets and marsupials like flying squirrels, Chacoan pygmy opossums, sugar gliders, and hedgehogs. \n\nOther small non-mammalian animals such as reptiles, birds, fish, and amphibians—e.g. lizards, snakes, turtles, goldfish, canaries, and frogs—may not be considered \"pocket pets\".\n\nMany of these small pets are prohibited in certain areas for being invasive; California, Hawaii, and New Zealand have strict regulations to protect their native environments and agricultural operations. Gerbils, degus, ferrets, domesticated rats, sugar gliders, and hedgehogs have various prohibitions on their ownership.\n\nThe domestication of small mammals is a relatively recent development, arising only after large-scale industrialization. Historically, Western society was more agrarian than today, with rodents as a whole seen as vermin that were carriers for disease and a threat to crops. Animals that hunted such pests (e.g. terriers and cats) were prized.\nSmall animals like guinea pigs and ferrets are considered pocket pets.\n\nGuinea pigs (cavy) have perhaps been kept the longest as pets among rodents. While historically they served as a foodstuff for the native Inca people, they were imported to Europe as early as the mid-16th century, shortly after Spain conquered Peru. As an oddity from the New World, they were afforded a special status, and seen as house pets, rather than vermin or food. While their popularity was initially limited to the wealthy, their prodigious reproductive habits ensured that they spread throughout the middle classes shortly after their introduction; guinea pig burial places (not scattered bones—as would be found with an eaten animal) have been found in archaeological digs in early modern middle-class suburbs.\n\nGuinea pigs do not store their food. They typically travel in groups, or herds, scavenging for grass and other vegetation. They are commonly active during dawn or dusk when they are less likely to encounter predators (crepuscular). As pack animals in the wild, the domestic Guinea pig also thrives when kept with one or more companions (except boars in the presence of a sow). They live off a diet consisting of grass hay and food pellets, typically synthesized from timothy hay. Like humans, Guinea pigs can not synthesize their own vitamin C making their food intake their only source of vitamin C; a lack of vitamin C will often cause fatal scurvy. At merely four weeks old female Guinea pigs become fertile and may produce as many as four to five litters a year. With an average gestation period of 59–72 days, a female Guinea pig may become pregnant again in as few as 6 hours after giving birth. Guinea pigs live to be around 4 to 5 years old.\n\nFancy mice were popular pets in Japan during the 18th century, due in large part to the abundance of color mutations in wild mice. In 1787, a book on this hobby, \"The Breeding of Curious Varieties of the Mouse\", was published by Chobei Zenya, a Kyoto money exchanger. Over time, the tradition spread from Japan to Europe, and in 1895 the \"National Mouse Club\" was established in England.\n\nFancy mice are nocturnal animals who utilize burrowing and hiding to evade prey due to their general defenselessness. Mice also utilize burrows to avoid light whenever possible. Mice live in families with developed social structure and territorial boundaries between families. Male mice organize themselves into a social hierarchy in which the most dominant mouse becomes the \"lead buck\", or the one at the top of the social ladder. Only the lead buck mates during mating season, all other mice are restricted by the lead buck or downright rejected by the female mice. Mice possess a highly developed sense of smell, hearing, and feeling; however, their sense of sight is poor due to the odd location of their eyes on their head. Mice can hear pitches inaudible to the human ear and communicate with squeaks, some of which reach pitches humans can only hear through the use of an oscilloscope.\n\nTheir sense of smell is highly developed and many mice can recognize if another mouse is part of their family groups based on smell alone. Their sense of touch is also highly developed; due to their poor eyesight a lot of movement is interpreted through the utilization of whiskers and guard hairs to orientate themselves and determine their surroundings. Female mice have a gestation period of 19 to 21 days and may have up to 15 litters a year; due to their ability to become pregnant again within 24 hours of giving birth. The average litter size is 10 to 12 pups who are born deaf and blind; within 2 weeks the litter will resemble small adult mice.\n\nFancy rats first became popular pets in Victorian England during the 19th century, being selectively bred for unusual colouration or temperament. They are prohibited in Alberta, Canada, outside of schools, laboratories, and zoos. Fancy Rats enjoy keeping company of their own kind; it is common to keep domesticated rats in pairs of the same sex because they need a companion but if a pet owner houses two rats of the opposite sex together they will have a lot of baby rats. Whereas mice enjoy independence domesticated rats rather enjoy the company of their owner. Female rats may become pregnant at as early as five weeks old; producing a litter of about 8 young each time, and are able to become pregnant again within 24 hours. Rats have sharp teeth that never stop growing, in order to combat this rats will chew on things such as wood to shave down their teeth to an appropriate length. Non domestic rats have differing diets depending on location. Rats are opportunistic eaters; in the wild rats are herbivores as they will scavenge for seeds, plants and fruits. Due to a lack of easily accessible produce in the city, city rats will eat just about everything ranging from trash to meat. Domestic rats live slightly longer than wild rats, boasting live spans of around 4 years, whereas wild rats tend to live around 2 to 3 years.\n\nHamsters first gained popularity as pets in the 1930s, with virtually all modern Syrian hamsters (the most common pet species) tracing their lineage back to a single litter of hamsters taken to Palestine for scientific research in 1930. Shortly thereafter, in 1938, hamsters were introduced to the United States. Dwarf hamsters are also popular pets. There currently exist 18 hamster species, the average weight of each species differing slightly. Wild hamsters are typically found in open areas such as deserts, plains, and fields. Hamsters scavenge for food, with a diet consisting primarily of grain. Hamsters temporarily store their food in their large cheek pouches for transport to their burrows, where they maintain hoards. Territorial by nature, hamsters do not run in packs and react aggressively towards a member of their own species.\n\nDomestic hamsters which are caged together will typically act aggressively towards one another as they get older, potentially fatally. They typically are nocturnal or crepuscular, though they may be active during both night and day if their sleep schedule is disturbed. Hamsters produce two to four litters a year. Gestation takes 15 to 22 days and newborns only require nursing for approximately three weeks. The domestic hamster population is large; however, despite a rapid reproduction rate, wild hamsters populations are diminishing due to habitat destruction and their place near the bottom of the food chain.\n\nGerbils became established in the pet industry in 1964. They are prohibited in California. As desert dwellers Gerbils dig long burrows in order to escape the harsh temperatures; however, unlike hamsters, Gerbils are not nocturnal. Gerbils are active most during the evening and morning, times in which the weather is calmest, making them primarily crepuscular. Gerbils are naturally curious, social and nonviolent animals, making them more suitable for children than most pocket pets. Gerbils have an average lifespan of two to four years. Adult male gerbils are very territorial and the larger the gerbil the larger their burrow typically is, and the more territory they scent mark. Gerbils communicate through the use of thumping their back legs and whistling sharply, thumping can be both a communication of excitement and anxiety.\n\nAfter initial interest in common degus as research subjects, they have become popular as pets, though until recently they were seldom found in pet shops. They are prohibited in California. Degus are also social animals and thrive with a partner when kept as pets. Degus love to run around, exercise, and explore tight locations. Domestic degus require some form of bedding so that they may store their food similarly to wild degus. Degu's incisor and molar teeth never stop growing so they need access to items they may regularly chew on. They are naturally active during the day and rest during night, unlike most other pocket pets. They consume a diet of large amounts of fiber. They require nearly constant access to hay, and small amounts of pellets and leafy vegetables. They are prone to two types of diabetes, so degus need a diet which is low in sugar and fat, so fruits and vegetables high in sugar content such as carrots should not be given to a degu. Degus occasionally eat their own droppings to obtain certain nutrients that keep their digestive system healthy.\n\nChinchillas have been used in research since the 1950s. They are popular pets, but require much care. The domestic chinchilla is descended from \"Chinchilla lanigera,\" the long-tailed Chinchilla, and so have thinner bodies, longer tails and larger ears. Chinchillas in the wild roam in herds so naturally domestic chinchillas also like to have a companion and can live to be over 10 years old. They consist of a diet of grass, hay, and grass based chinchilla pellets. Their teeth never stop growing so they rely on their food to wear down their teeth to the appropriate length. An improper diet can lead to serious dental disease. Chinchillas may eat small amounts of dried fruit and root vegetables as treats, but too large an amount may lead to serious health issues such as obesity. They are typically nocturnal and require a lot of free space to roam around in. They have litters of around 2 kits and a gestation period of around 110 days. They can breed at 6–9 months of age. The females are seasonally polyestrous and come into heat every 30 to 90 days during the year. They can have up to 3 litters in a year if the female breeds around the time of giving birth.\n\nFerrets have a high metabolic rate, meaning they can eat around 8 to 10 small meals daily. They are carnivorous, like Cats, so they need a high protein intake which can be satisfied using pellets. Chicken and lamb are common ingredients in ferret food, it is best to avoid foods that include grain or corn. In the wild ferrets commonly take over the burrows of other small animals such as prairie dogs, domestic ferrets live in cages but should be let out for several hours each day. Domestic ferrets enjoy having many places to hide and explore such as tunnels and closed hammocks, some ferrets may also enjoy playing in water. As natural predators, ferrets should be kept separate from any prey animals. Like many other pocket pets, ferrets are social animals and thrive in groups of two or three. A ferret kept on its own will require a lot more attention from its owner than a ferret who has the constant company of his own species. Female ferrets reach sexual maturity at around 8 –12 months of age. A ferret gives birth to an average of 8 kits, gestation last about 41 days.   \n\nAround the world, the sugar glider is popular as an exotic pet, and is sometimes considered a pocket pet. Most US states and cities allow sugar gliders as pets, with some exceptions including California, Hawaii, Alaska, and New York City. In Australia, sugar gliders can be kept in Victoria, South Australia, and the Northern Territory. However, they are not allowed to be kept as pets in Western Australia, New South Wales, the Australian Capital Territory, Queensland or Tasmania.\n\nSugar gliders are social animals commonly living in groups of around 7 individuals. They communicate through vocalization and chemical odors and commonly live in trees. Male gliders become mature at 4–12 weeks and female gliders mature at 8–12 weeks. Breeding takes place in June to November and the glider gives birth to one child, or joey, although having twins is possible. The joey spends 2 months in the pouch only opening its eyes 80 days after birth. Male gliders do all the parental care and after 110 days the joey is ready to leave the nest. Sugar gliders are omnivorous relying on the consumption of insects in the summer. Gliders can also eat arthropods, sap, honeydew, and nectar from plants. Sugar gliders eat around 11 grams of food a day, 10 percent of their body weight.\n\nSeventeen species of hedgehog exist worldwide. Hedgehog are native in Europe, the Middle East, Africa, and central Asia. They were introduced to New Zealand by England and quickly became an invasive species. Hedgehogs are omnivorous and threaten insect, snail, lizard, and bird populations due to a lack of natural predators in New Zealand. Hedgehogs may tighten the orbicularis muscle on their back to hide their head, legs, and belly in a coat of prickly erect spines. Hedgehogs are primarily nocturnal, though some may be crepuscular. Hedgehogs typically take refuge in the empty burrow of another small animal, or a burrow they dug themselves. However, hedgehogs can occasionally take refuge under rocks or in thick vegetation, or anywhere dark and secluded. Hedgehogs tend to be solitary, though not to the extent of hamsters. Some captive bred females crave the companionship of another hedgehog and occasionally show bonding tendencies when housed with another female; male hedgehogs should not be housed together as they will fight once they reach sexual maturity.\n\nHedgehogs were considered insectivores prior to that classification's abandonment. Presently, hedgehogs are classified as omnivorous, and due eat anything. Hedgehogs have been known to eat bugs, slugs, frogs, fish, worms, small mice, small snakes, and even fruits and vegetables. A hedgehog's diet should be very high in protein. Hedgehogs can eat fruits and vegetables but only in moderation. Despite their small size Hedgehogs require a large cage with bedding and plenty of furniture to hide in and explore. Hedgehogs have a gestation period of about 35 days, and give birth to on average 4 deaf and blind young (hoglets). At three to five weeks old the young leave the nest for the first time to go hunting on their own.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2007885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007885", "title": "John McKeown", "text": "John McKeown\n\nJohn McKeown is a solo artist based in London, England, signed to Beatroute Records. McKeown previously fronted rock group Hero. After a European tour with Stereophonics and a number of tour dates in Los Angeles Hero disbanded. John McKeown chose to pursue a solo career at the end of 2008.\n\nAt the start of 2009 McKeown started recording his debut album Things Worth Fighting For with Elliott Randall producing. The first single \"Fade Away\" was released by Beatroute Records on 14 September 2009. The digital single was accompanied by the b-side These are the Times. The full album Things Worth Fighting For became available on 28 September 2009. Both the single and album were limited to digital releases.\n\nJohn McKeown launched Things Worth Fighting For with an exclusive showcase at The Pigalle Club in Picadilly on 10 September 2009. He was joined on stage by Elliott Randall and London Community Gospel Choir founder Reverend Bazil Meade. The show was only open to press and invited VIPs but the performance was broadcast live on his website JohnMcKeown.net.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2007892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007892", "title": "The Make Yourself at Home EP", "text": "The Make Yourself at Home EP\n\nThe Make Yourself at Home EP is an acoustic EP by American pop punk band The Starting Line released on 25 November 2003.\n\n\"The Make Yourself at Home EP\" contains six acoustic songs, including five new songs and an acoustic version of \"The Best of Me\", previously released as an electric version on The Starting Line's 2002 studio album, \"Say It Like You Mean It\". The enhanced version of the EP contains video footage of the band performing unreleased tracks, titled \"Classic Jazz\" and \"Surprise, Surprise\". Recorded in two sessions in producer Bob Jones' bedroom and singer Kenny Vasoli's basement, the EP's first five tracks were initially planned to be released on 12 August 2003. However, the release date was postponed as a result of Vasoli recording a sixth song, titled \"Lasting Impressions\", in the back of the band's bus while on tour. A DVD with the same name was released simultaneously, and features an acoustic set performed by the band at Skate & Surf 2003 in Asbury Park, New Jersey.\n\n"}
{"id": "2007895", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007895", "title": "John Lescroart", "text": "John Lescroart\n\nJohn Lescroart (; born January 14, 1948) is a \"New York Times\" bestselling author known for his series of legal and crime thriller novels featuring the characters Dismas Hardy, Abe Glitsky, and Wyatt Hunt. His novels have sold more than 10 million copies, have been translated into 22 languages in more than 75 countries, and 18 of his books have been on the \"New York Times\" bestseller list.\n\nLescroart was born in Houston, Texas, and graduated from Junípero Serra High School in San Mateo, California (Class of 1966). He earned a B.A. in English with Honors at UC Berkeley in 1970.\n\nBefore becoming a full-time writer in 1994, Lescroart was a self-described “Jack of all trades\", who worked as a word processor for law firms as well as a bartender, moving man, house painter, editor, advertising director, computer programmer, and fundraising executive.\n\nThrough his 20s, he was also a full-time singer-songwriter-guitarist, and performed under the name Johnny Capo, with Johnny Capo and his Real Good Band.\n\nIn addition to more than 20 novels, Lescroart has written several screenplays.\n\nHe is an original founding member of the group International Thriller Writers.\n\nHe appeared as a contestant on the game show \"Tic Tac Dough\" in 1979, as well as on \"The Joker's Wild\", \"Blank Check\", and \"Headline Chasers\".\n\nAdditionally, under Crow Art Records, Lescroart has released several albums, including a CD of piano versions of his songs performed by Antonio Gala. He has for some time been writing and living in Davis, California.\n\nLescroart's first novel, \"Sunburn\" (1981), won the San Francisco Foundation's Joseph Henry Jackson Award for best as yet unpublished novel by a California author, beating Anne Rice's \"Interview With the Vampire\". \"Dead Irish\" (1989) and \"The 13th Juror\" (1994) were nominees for the Shamus and Anthony Awards for Best Mystery Novel, respectively; additionally \"The 13th Juror\" is included in the International Thriller Writers publication “100 Must-Read Thrillers Of All Time.” \"Hard Evidence\" (1993) is named in \"The Complete Idiot’s Guide to the Ultimate Reading List\". His novel \"Guilt\" (1997) was a Readers Digest Select Edition choice. \"The Mercy Rule\" (1998), \"Nothing But the Truth\" (2000), and \"The Suspect\" (2007) have been major market Book Club selections. \"The Suspect\" was also the 2007 One Book Sacramento choice of the Sacramento Library Foundation, and was chosen by the American Author's Association as its 2007 Book of the Year. \"Damage\" (2011) made \"Entertainment Weekly’s\" “Must List.”\n\nIn 2007, Lescroart was awarded the American Author Medal for \"The Suspect\". In 2008, he was part of the California Library Laureates, in association with the California State Assembly. He has twice been the spotlighted guest at the International Thriller Writer's Thrillerfest, and in 2012, he was the guest of honor at Left Coast Crime.\n\nIn 1998, he appeared in \"The Best American Mystery Stories\", edited by Sue Grafton, for \"The Adventure of the Giant Rat of Sumatra\".\n\nLibraries Unlimited has included Lescroart in its publication \"The 100 Most Popular Thriller and Suspense Authors.\"\n\n\"Guilt\" was a \"\"Readers Digest\" Select Edition\" choice.\n\nEighteen of John Lescroart's novels have been The New York Times Best Seller list.\n\n\n[It is strongly hinted in these books that Lupa (the son of Sherlock Holmes and Irene Adler) later becomes Nero Wolfe, although Wolfe is never mentioned by name.]\n\nLescroart's most popular works are a series of legal and crime dramas taking place in and around San Francisco, beginning with the thriller \"Dead Irish\". They center around the adventures of ex-cop and lawyer, Dismas Hardy, and his best friend, officer Abe Glitsky, among many other friends and associates. His newest works introduce Wyatt Hunt, working as a private investigator. Although they are often performing together in the story, the books can be distinguished by which character is the main protagonist. Hardy's daughter, Rebecca, first appears as the main character in the novel \"The Fall\", following her graduation from law school and joining Hardy's law firm as an associate attorney.\n\n\n\n\nThe events of \"A Certain Justice\" happen chronologically between Parts IV and V of Guilt. \n\nLescroart wrote \"A Certain Justice\" before \"Guilt\", and in the course of writing it, he came up with Wes Farrell's account of the trial that made him lose faith in the law. After finishing \"Justice\", he decided \"Guilt\" would go both backwards and forwards and tell the whole story of Mark Dooher.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2007896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007896", "title": "Chronic inflation", "text": "Chronic inflation\n\nChronic inflation is an economic phenomenon occurring when a country experiences high inflation for a prolonged period (several years or decades) due to continual increases in the money supply among other things. In countries with chronic inflation, inflation expectations become 'built-in', and it becomes extremely difficult to reduce the inflation rate because the process of reducing inflation by, for example, slowing down the growth rate of the money supply, will often lead to high unemployment until inflationary expectations have adjusted to the new situation.\n\nChronic inflation is distinct from hyperinflation.\n\nEven more so than hyperinflation, chronic inflation is a 20th-century phenomenon, being first observed by Felipe Pazos in 1972. High inflation can only be sustained with unbacked paper currencies over long periods, and before World War II unbacked paper currencies were rare except in countries affected by war – which often produced extremely high inflation but never for more than a few years. Most economists believe chronic inflation first emerged in Latin America following World War II, with the result that it was originally called \"Latin inflation\". Some economists, however, argue that the experience of France in the 1920s was the first case of chronic inflation. Japan (see below) in the years surrounding World War II is another case with characteristics very akin to well-studied cases of chronic inflation.\n\nMonetarists state that chronic inflation is caused by chronic growth of the money supply, a position that is accepted by most mainstream economists. The causes alleged below are then things that cause the monetary authority to chronically engage in monetary growth.\n\nEarly observers from the 1960s and 1970s attributed the ultimate political cause of chronic inflation as powerful group interests with radically divergent policy demands, arguing that the power of labour unions to demand high wages for workers in frequently outdated economic sectors conflicted with the basically feudal political structures of affected countries. Under these conditions, a return to a commodity money that would curb inflation quickly is politically suicidal, with the result that governments affected by chronic inflation have invariably had to resort to more subtle methods of reducing inflation, such as central bank reforms or indexing price and wage levels to the future value of money. This, however, leads to \"inflation inertia\" and ultimately to a public that becomes skeptical of attempts to reduce inflation: unlike hyperinflation, history has shown that it is possible for communities to live with moderate chronic inflation relatively easily.\n\nOther sources have argued that chronic inflation is caused by governments seeking to optimize seignorage taxes in order to pay most efficiently for public programmes, or because the societies in which it developed have consistently imported more than they can export and their currencies have had to devalue consistently to make their imports more expensive without elasticity being sufficient to reduce demand. There have on this line also been arguments for demographic causes of chronic inflation as resulting from populations growing more rapidly than production in developing nations from the 1950s to the 1980s, and until today in sub-Saharan Africa. Increasingly it is also thought that environmental or ecological stresses and disasters can trigger a period of systemic inflation by governments unable to effectively handle the situation.\n\nThe Argentine economy has a long history of experiencing trouble with prolonged high inflation rates. In 1989, Argentina experienced a hyperinflation crisis as a result of bad economic policies, which led to an inflation rate of 257%. The hyperinflation crisis caused protests, riots, looting and a general decline of the government popularity among the public. This hyperinflation crisis had also taken place in the middle of the presidential elections, which led to the governing party to lose the elections.\n\nDuring the 1990s, thanks to the convertibility plan, which pegged the austral (and, afterward, the peso) to the United States Dollar value, inflation rates decreased nearly to 0%. These policies ended with a catastrophic economic crisis in 2001.\n\nDuring the 21st century, Argentina didn't experience real inflationary troubles until 2007, which saw a rise in inflation rates. During Cristina Kirchner's government, inflation rates were at an all-time high, with the highest inflation rates experienced in 2013, which saw a rise of the inflation rate to 30% to 40%.\n\nThis was compensated, albeit partly, with high purchasing power and subsidization, the latter increasing the fiscal deficit.\n\nIn December 2015, Mauricio Macri assumed the presidency of the nation, with a 40% inflation from Cristina Kirchner's presidency. When 2016 ended, inflation was in a recent of 42%. \n\nThe Argentine Ministry of Economy had put in action a project that claimed to reduce inflation from 40% to 20% (+/- 2%) in 2017, to 10% (+/- 2%) in 2018 and to 5% (+/- 1%) in 2019. The project initially led to 24% inflation in 2017, but it did not work in 2018, with an inflation rate of 47.6%, and in 2019, inflation was 53%.\n\nIn 1996, the Bulgarian economy collapsed due to the slow and mismanaged economic reforms of several governments in a row, shortages of wheat, and an unstable and decentralized banking system, which led to an inflation rate of 311% and the collapse of the lev, with the exchange rate to dollars reaching 3000. When pro-reform forces came into power in the spring 1997, an ambitious economic reform package, including introduction of a currency board regime and pegging the Bulgarian Lev to the German Deutsche Mark (and subsequently to the euro), was agreed to with the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank, and the economy began to stabilize.\n\nChile had prolonged inflation for the greater part of the twentieth century. Inflation first became persistent at the tail end of the 1930s as the government began a process of import substitution, rising steady to 84 percent in 1955. After slowing in the late 1950s, inflation rose again under Allende and peaked anywhere between 500% and 1,000% in late 1973 (which some consider hyperinflation, though the monthly inflation rate reached 30% for a single month). A 1973 coup d'état deposed Allende and installed a military government led by Augusto Pinochet. Pinochet's free-market economic policy gradually ended chronic inflation, which stabilised in single figures for the first time in forty-five years. Overall impact of chronic inflation: 1 current peso = 1,000,000 pre-1960 pesos.\n\nGuinea has seen year on year inflation rates hover well above 50% since the late 1990s, though many months have seen much lower levels in the single digits. In Guinea the normal drivers of inflation are food supply and distribution, and global commodity prices. Political instability has also contributed greatly to the fall in the Guinean franc's value in recent years due to a series of coups following the ouster of longtime military strongman Lansana Conté and mass protests. Some government mitigation policies and economic growth have progressively stabilized inflation rates which reached their peak in July 2005 at 42.6% for the month to a current average of 9.7% per month. On 21 July 2010, Yahoo! Finance quoted the rate as 5,050 GNF to 1 USD. , the exchange rate was 7,023 GNF to 1 USD.\n\nInflation accelerated in the 1970s, rising steadily from 13% in 1971 to 111% in 1979. From 133% in 1980, it leaped to 191% in 1983 and then to 445% in 1984, threatening to become a four-digit figure within a year or two. In 1985 Israel froze most prices by law and enacted other measures as part of an economic stabilization plan. That same year, inflation more than halved, to 185%. Within a few months, the authorities began to lift the price freeze on some items; in other cases it took almost a year. By 1986, inflation was down to 19%.\n\nYears of constant war and rebuilding resulted in large amounts of government spending, with international sanctions creating shortages and limits on borrowing. Between 1987 and 1995 the Iraqi Dinar went from an official value of 0.306 Dinars/USD (or US$3.26 per dinar; the black market rate is thought to have been substantially fewer dinars per dollar) to 3000 Dinars/USD due to government loss of their Swiss printing press and the printing of inferior quality notes. This equates to approximately 315% inflation per year averaged over that eight-year period.\n\nAs Hirohito prepared for war to gain access to rubber and mineral resources, Japan began experiencing steady inflation from 1934. By the end of 1949, retail prices were more than 150 times their level in 1939, and the highest denomination was a 75,000,000,000 Yen bank cheque. The Japan wholesale price index (relative to 1 as the average of 1930) shot up to 16.3 in 1943, 127.9 in 1948 and 342.5 in 1951. In the early 1950s, after the end of US military occupation, Japan controlled its own money. Through its rapidly growing export trade, Japan stabilized the yen quickly.\n\nStarting in the late 1980s financial aid and trade with the USSR greatly decreased, which began a two-decade long period of high inflation that began to accelerate by 1996 with the East Asian financial crisis which had severely impacted Laos, burdened with large amounts of foreign debt coupled with very slow growth. By January 1998 inflation had reached 100% a month and did not dip below that level again until late 1999, after it had peaked well above 167%. For a short time the Lao kip gained the less than respectable title of being \"least valued currency unit.\" Although the kip has officially returned to lower inflation levels the local inflation rates remain much higher, spurred on by rising food and import prices. The emergence of a new debt crisis in 2013 has brought more uncertainty. \nThe Malagasy franc (iraimbilanja) had a turbulent time in 2004, losing nearly half its value and sparking rampant inflation. On 1 January 2005, the ariary, worth five francs, became the main currency unit in Madagascar. In May 2005, there were riots over rising inflation. Disinflation calmed the situation from 2005 to 2008, but riots ensued in 2009 as prices continued to rise.\n\nIn spite of the oil crisis of the late 1970s (Mexico is a producer and exporter), and due to excessive social spending, Mexico defaulted on its external debt in 1982. As a result, the country suffered a severe case of capital flight and over a decade of chronic inflation and peso devaluation. In 1984, the highest denomination was 10,000 pesos , by 1991 it was 100,000 pesos and many Mexicans took to putting their savings into dollars. On 1 January 1993, Mexico created a new currency, the nuevo peso (\"new peso\", or MXN), which chopped 3 zeros off the old peso, an inflation rate of 10,000% over the decade of the crisis. (One new peso was equal to 1000 of the obsolete MXP pesos). The actual highest denomination was 1,000 pesos, worth 1,000,000 old pesos.\n\nMozambique was one of the world's poorest and most underdeveloped countries when it became independent of Portugal in 1975, the last colonial power to relinquish its African territories. A brutal civil war between the communist government and rebel forces from 1977 to 1992 led to continuous inflation. The highest denomination in 1976 was 100 meticais. By 2004, it was 500,000 meticais. In the 2006 currency reform, 1 new metical was exchanged for 1,000 old meticais.\n\nThough the North Korean Won, officially called the Korean People's won (KPW) never technically failed it had been steadily devalued since 2002 when the dollar peg was removed. During a 2009 revaluation, the government gave citizens seven days to turn in their old won for new won – with 1,000 old worth 10 of the new – but allowed a maximum exchange of only 150,000 of the old won. That meant each adult could legally exchange about US$740-worth of won. The exchange cap wiped out the savings of many North Koreans, and reportedly caused unrest in parts of the country. Many of the exchange and time limits for conversion were either dropped or extended after prices soared over 1000% in some regions in the first week as people rushed to buy as much things as they could. According to a September 2009 BBC report, some department stores in Pyongyang even stopped accepting North Korean won, instead insisting upon payment in U.S. dollars, Chinese renminbi, euros, or even Japanese yen.\n\nThe Syrian Civil War and has resulted in a substantial capital fight of Syrian goods and services to nearby Arab countries. Before the war, the exchange rate was remarkably stable; one U.S. dollar was quoted at 47 Syrian pounds. , profound effects of the Syrian Civil War to the Syrian economy reduced the value of the Syrian pound to less than one thousandth of a U.S. dollar in the black market, representing a devaluation of 96% since the start of the war. Between 1 January and 16 January 2020, the Syrian pound lost a quarter of its value relative to the U.S. dollar, from 900 SYP/USD to 1200 SYP/USD.\n\nFurther compounding the problem, the use of currencies other than Syrian pounds in any transaction is forbidden under Syrian law, and on 18 January 2020, Syrian president Bashar al-Assad increased the penalty for unauthorised use of foreign currency anywhere in Syria to seven years of hard labour. Despite the law, Syrians continue to resort to hard currencies such as U.S. dollars or euros to maintain their purchasing power.\n\nThroughout the 1990s Turkey dealt with severe inflation rates that finally crippled the economy into a recession in 2001. The highest denomination in 1995 was 1,000,000 lira. By 2005 it was 20,000,000 lira. Recently Turkey has achieved single digit inflation for the first time in decades, and in the 2005 currency reform, introduced the New Turkish Lira; 1 was exchanged for 1,000,000 old lira.\n\nUzbekistan has perpetually experienced high inflation since the time of independence. In 1994 the highest denomination available was 100 som, the current highest is 5000 som with a face value of roughly $2.00 as of 2014 and large bundles of currency are required for any substantial purchase, with most prices rounded off to the nearest thousand.\n\nVenezuela has a legacy of multiple inflation crisis linked to mismanagement and lack of economic diversification, with the largest and longest period starting in the 1980s and through the 90s during which inflation peaked in 1996 with 60% in January to an all-time high of 118.8% in July of that same year. Revenue from petroleum exports accounts for more than 50% of the country's GDP and roughly 95% of total exports, and after decades of some of the strongest economic growth in South America the trend went into sharp reversal as oil prices began their steady drop following the end of the oil crisis of the 1970s of which both OPEC member and non-member producers had benefited greatly from. This period of economic contraction in Venezuela coincided with the beginning of the 1980s oil glut, which saw large cutbacks in production and state revenue. Since the early 2000s the administration of Hugo Chavez responded to the ongoing crisis by initiating a series of often flawed price controls, state acquisition and reappropriation of both public and private assets and funds, and a revaluation of the bolivar in 2008 which slashed three zeroes off the currency. However, changes in economic reliance on petroleum and mining exports were never made and Venezuela remained vulnerable to global supply and demand of these exports and continued to experience systemic economic problems and a return to high inflation. As of January 2014, Venezuela had the highest inflation rate in the world at 56.2% and 63.4% as of August 2014, though official numbers are stated to be much lower. The national economy has contracted for three consecutive quarters officially putting the country in recession while a global crash in oil prices crimp revenue and contribute to fears of a potential default which could bring inflation levels even higher.\n\nFalling copper prices, the oil crisis, and failed economic management in the 1970s led to shortfalls and severe economic crisis in Zambia by the early 80s, instigating a nationwide famine and forcing the government to borrow massive amounts of money and commit to extreme IMF economic reforms which led to anti-government riots and the devaluation of the kwacha. Inflation held around 15% in the 1980s until hitting 54% in 1988, to 191% in 1992, and 183% in 1993, compounded further by a prolonged drought. A \"cash-budgeting system\" and free market reforms brought inflation down to 55% in 1994, and 25% in 1998.\n\n"}
{"id": "2007902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007902", "title": "Gravy Train (dog food)", "text": "Gravy Train (dog food)\n\nGravy Train is an American commercial dog food. Originally developed by General Foods, introduced in 1959, and trademarked in 1960, it was the first brand of dog food to have a brown gravy form when warm water is added to the dry kibble, mixing with the kibble's powder coating. The gravy is intended to make the food more palatable.\n\nThe advertising catchphrase is \"The Gravy Taste Dogs Can't Wait to Finish.\"\n\nGravy Train was once a brand of General Foods Corporation as part of its \"Gaines Division\" which included Gaines Meal, Gaines-Burgers as well as Prime Choice and Top Choice. \n\nSince 2014, Gravy Train has been owned by Big Heart Pet Brands, which spun off from Del Monte Foods.\n\nGravy Train primarily consists of byproducts from corn, wheat and soybeans, cellulose gum (the active ingredient that creates the gravy), bone meal, vitamin and mineral supplementation, artificial colors, BHA and rosemary.\n"}
{"id": "2007910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007910", "title": "Rogers Group", "text": "Rogers Group\n\nRogers Group is a Mauritius-based listed international services and investment company with specialist expertise within four markets: FinTech, Hospitality, Logistics and Property. Operations within each served market are organised into sectors, with 4,545 people and 52 offices across 12 different territories.\n\nAs of June 2015, the shareholding in the stock of the company was as follows:\n\n"}
{"id": "2007911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007911", "title": "Gilly Salmon", "text": "Gilly Salmon\n\nProfessor Gilly Salmon has been a digital learning innovator for more than 30 years. She is currently Academic Director for Open Education Services ( OES) in the UK. Previously , Professor of Innovation and Transformation, and Associate Dean, Online, at the University of Liverpool Management School. \n\nShe speaks, researches and publishes widely on the themes of innovation and change in higher education and the exploitation of new technologies of all kinds in the service of learning.\n\nShe is known for her contributions to online education, including research, innovation, programme design, teaching methods and the use of new technologies.\n\nPreviously, Salmon was Pro Vice chancellor at the University of Western Australia , Pro Vice Chancellor (Learning Transformations) at Swinburne University of Technology, in Melbourne, Australia ;Executive Director and Professor (Learning Futures) at the Australian Digital Futures Institute, University of Southern Queensland, Australia. She was previously Professor of E-learning and Learning Technologies, and Head of the Beyond Distance Research Alliance and the Media Zoo, at the University of Leicester in the UK. And before that with the UK Open University Business School.\" (Salmon, 2013, para. 1–4). She was a founding director of All Things in Moderation Ltd, in 2001.\n\nBooks\n\n"}
{"id": "2007915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007915", "title": "Live at Luther College", "text": "Live at Luther College\n\nLive at Luther College is a live album by Dave Matthews and Tim Reynolds recorded at Luther College in Decorah, Iowa. Recorded on February 6, 1996 and released nearly three years later, it was the first concert by the pair to be available commercially. \"Live at Luther College\" was the only released concert by Dave Matthews and Tim Reynolds, until the release of \"Live at Radio City\" in 2007. \"Live at Luther College\" features several unreleased and rare tracks, including \"What Will Become of Me?\", which was played at the end of the song \"Jimi Thing\". The show incorporates six songs that would appear on the studio album \"Crash\" when it was released later in 1996.\n\nAll songs by David J. Matthews unless noted.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2007927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007927", "title": "Life Support (Australian TV series)", "text": "Life Support (Australian TV series)\n\nLife Support was a comedy programme on Australia's SBS network which satirised lifestyle television programs. It ran for three seasons. On Australia Day 2006, a \"Life Support\" Marathon was shown on the Comedy Channel showing the first series and half of the second.\n\nA satirical, sometimes dark look at Australian life as seen through the omnipresent lens of the Television Lifestyle Show. The series' lifestyle experts included Sigourney, a home economics guru who always wore a fresh frock and was a firm believer in the doctrine of \"pleasing your man\"; Todd, a DIY expert; Rudi, a South African general practitioner; and young person Penne.\n\nMuch of the show's humour derived from political incorrectness and black humour. For example: Penne explains that roadside tributes are an ideal place to get fresh flowers; Dr Rudi endorses fattening up one's daughter to prevent boys from wanting to have sex with her because \"It's better to have a fatty boombah in the family than a filthy slut\"; Sigourney recommends that if you have a bad haircut, shave your head and tell your friends that you have had chemotherapy.\n\nOne feature of the series were voxpop interviews with real people about topics raised in the show, which often supported the stereotypes and attitudes voiced by the characters.\n\n\nThroughout the third series, there were various hints that the new Dr Rudi, who was explained as having surgery, was actually an imposter. During the usual letter time, instead of answering mail, they would instead continue the plot that the old Dr Rudi was out for revenge, and to get his life back. During the final scene of the last episode of the series, Sigourney and Dr Rudi's (Jack Finsterer) wedding was taking place, and from behind the bushes came the original Dr Rudi (Simon Van Der Stap) to try to end the wedding. The pair got into an argument over which Dr Rudi Sigourney would marry, and they started a fist fight. This led to the closing credits. As no episodes of \"Life Support\" have been made since, this plot has never been resolved.\n\nAll 3 series of \"Life Support\" have been released on DVD.\n\n"}
{"id": "2007930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007930", "title": "Grevillea buxifolia", "text": "Grevillea buxifolia\n\nGrevillea buxifolia, commonly known as the grey spider flower, is a species of the family Proteaceae. It grows in coastal New South Wales, Australia. First described in 1793 by James Edward Smith, he gave the new species the name \"Embothrium buxifolium\". It is widely cultivated and contains a number of subspecies and cultivars. These vary most in the presentation of the attractive flower.\n\nThe species forms a short shrub, three or four feet high. The numerous branches are covered in a reddish or brown hair and many leaves. Flowers sit at the termination of these: yellowish and white, pendulous star-shaped petals, set to appear in November.\n\nThe flowers of the plant sit alone, erect in umbels, on stalks covered in reddish brown hairs. The corolla is likewise clothed and is partly fused to form a cavity. This interior is white and the petals are otherwise very pale to yellow; this spills above the hairy parts. The single elliptic leaves are veiny, with a very rough dark green upper; margins entire and roll to the downy underside. These are arranged, almost directly to the stem, alternate and numerous up the branches. They end in a little sharp point.\n\n"}
{"id": "2007933", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007933", "title": "Maria Yudina", "text": "Maria Yudina\n\nMaria Veniaminovna Yudina (, \"Mariya Veniaminovna Yudina\"; , 1899 – 19 November 1970) was a Soviet pianist.\n\nMaria Yudina was born to a Jewish family in Nevel, Vitebsk Governorate, Russian Empire. Her father, , was a renowned physiologist and forensic expert, while her mother was Raisa Yudina. She studied at the Petrograd Conservatory under Anna Yesipova and Leonid Nikolayev. She also briefly studied privately with Felix Blumenfeld. Her classmates included Dmitri Shostakovich and Vladimir Sofronitsky. In 1921–22 Yudina attended lectures at the historical-philological department of Petrograd University and, as a result, completed studies in theology after she had already converted from Judaism to the Orthodox Christian faith in 1919.\n\nAfter her graduation from the Petrograd Conservatory, Yudina was invited to teach there, which she did until 1930, when she was thrown out of the institution because of her religious convictions and vocal criticism of the Soviet leadership. After being unemployed and homeless for a couple of years, Yudina was invited to teach the graduate piano course at the Tbilisi State Conservatory in 1932–33. In 1936, on Heinrich Neuhaus's suggestion, Yudina joined the piano faculty of the Moscow Conservatory, where she taught until 1951. From 1944 to 1960 Yudina taught chamber ensemble and vocal class at the Gnessin Institute (now Gnessin Russian Academy of Music). In 1960 Yudina was thrown out of the Gnessin Institute because of her religious attitudes and advocacy of modern Western music. She continued to perform in public, but her recitals were forbidden to be recorded. After an incident during one of her recitals in Leningrad, when she read Boris Pasternak's poetry from the stage as an encore, Yudina was banned from performing for five years. In 1966, when the ban was lifted, she gave a cycle of lectures on Romanticism at the Moscow Conservatory.\n\nAccording to an otherwise unsubstantiated story in Solomon Volkov's book \"Testimony\", which claims to represent the memoirs of Dmitri Shostakovich, one night in 1944 Stalin heard a performance of Mozart's Piano Concerto No. 23 on the radio performed by Yudina, and asked for a copy. It was a live broadcast so officials woke up Yudina, drove her to a recording studio where a small orchestra had quickly been assembled, and made her record the concerto in the middle of the night; a single copy was pressed from the matrix and given to Stalin. In another apocryphal story, she was awarded the Stalin Prize and donated its monetary portion to the Russian Orthodox Church for prayers for Stalin's sins. But the existing recording of the Mozart concerto with Alexander Gauk dates from 1948, so the date 1943/1944 could be wrong.\n\nYudina remained an uncompromising critic of the Soviet regime. She died in Moscow in 1970.\n\nYudina's playing was marked by great virtuosity, spirituality, strength and intellectual rigor, with a highly idiosyncratic style and tone. Sviatoslav Richter said of her playing:\n\nShe was immensely talented and a keen advocate of the music of her own time: she played Stravinsky, whom she adored, Hindemith, Krenek and Bartók at a time when these composers were not only unknown in the Soviet Union but effectively banned. And when she played Romantic music, it was impressive—except that she didn't play what was written. Liszt's \"Weinen und Klagen\" was phenomenal, but Schubert's B-flat major Sonata, while arresting as an interpretation, was the exact opposite of what it should have been, and I remember a performance of the Second Chopin Nocturne that was so heroic that it no longer sounded like a piano but a trumpet. It was no longer Schubert or Chopin, but Yudina.\n\nAmong her friends were Boris Pasternak (who did the first reading of his novel \"Doctor Zhivago\" at Yudina's apartment as early as February 1947), Osip Mandelstam, Mikhail Bakhtin, Pierre Suvchinsky, Dmitri Shostakovich, Pierre Boulez and Karlheinz Stockhausen.\n\nThanks to the efforts of Yudina's friends in Russia, particularly Anatoly Kuznetsov, Yudina's letters and writings were published in the late 1990s and early 2000s. There were several attempts to complete the set of Yudina's recordings.\n\nYudina was portrayed as a character in Aleksei Losev's novel \"Woman as Thinker\". The flawed heroine Losev created was a woman musician who spouted philosophy but held herself to lower standards. The novel has been criticized as an outlet for Losev's difficult relationship with Yudina, and as a poor example of his capabilities as a writer. She was offended by the book, and ended their friendship in 1934.\n\nIn 1989 David Zane Mairowitz wrote \"The Stalin Sonata\", a radio drama loosely based on an encounter between Stalin and Yudina. It won a Giles Cooper Award.\n\nYudina appears in the French graphic novel \"La mort de Staline\", which retells the apocryphal concerto story from Solomon Volkov's book \"Testimony\" and fictitiously portrays her writing a castigating letter to Stalin that prompts his death. In the novel's 2017 Anglo-French film adaptation \"The Death of Stalin\", she is portrayed by Olga Kurylenko.\n\nThe French singer La Grande Sophie dedicated one song to \"Maria Yudina\".\n"}
{"id": "2007936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007936", "title": "Jacques Viger (mayor)", "text": "Jacques Viger (mayor)\n\nJacques Viger (May 7, 1787 – December 12, 1858) was an antiquarian, archaeologist, and the first mayor of the Canadian city of Montreal, Quebec.\n\nViger was born in Montreal, the son of Jacques Viger who represented Kent in the 2nd Parliament of Lower Canada, and studied at the Sulpician college of Montreal. On November 17, 1808 he married Marie Marguerite La Corne, daughter of Luc de la Corne, and widow of Major the Hon. John Lennox. They had three children, all of whom died in infancy. \n\nAfter his studies he went to Quebec, where he worked as an editor of the newspaper Le Canadien from November 1808 to May 1809. Viger served as captain in the Canadian Voltigeurs unit under Charles de Salaberry during the War of 1812. He was elected the first mayor of Montreal in 1833 and worked to improve its sanitary conditions. Although he wrote little, his reputation as an archaeologist was universal, and the greatest contemporary historians of France and the United States have drawn from his collection of manuscripts, based on forty years of research. He compiled a chronicle under the title of \"Sabretache\" (28 vols.), wherein he gathered plans, maps, portraits, and valuable notes illustrating many contested historical points. He was the founder of the Historical Society of Montreal in 1857, one year before his death. Pope Pius IX honoured him with the knighthood of the Order of St. Gregory the Great. \n\nHe died December 12, 1858 at age 71 and was buried in the crypt of the Notre-Dame-de-Grâce Church on December 15.\n\nThe Viger Square and Jacques Viger Building in Montreal are named in his honour.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2007949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007949", "title": "Somnology", "text": "Somnology\n\nSomnology is the scientific study of sleep. It includes clinical study and treatment of sleep disorders and irregularities. Sleep medicine is a subset of somnology.\n\nAfter the invention of the EEG, the stages of sleep were determined in 1936 by Harvey and Loomis, the first descriptions of delta and theta waves were made by Walter and Dovey, and REM sleep was discovered in 1953. Sleep apnea was identified in 1965. In 1970, the first clinical sleep laboratory was developed at Stanford. The first actigraphy device was made in 1978 by Krupke, and continuous positive airway pressure therapy and uvulopalatopharyngoplasty were created in 1981.\n\nThe Examination Committee of the Association of Sleep Disorders Centers, which is now the American Academy of Sleep Medicine, was established in 1978 and administered the sleep administration test until 1990. In 1989, the American Board of Sleep Medicine was created to administer the tests and eventually assumed all the duties of the Examination committee in 1991. In the United States, the American Board of Sleep Medicine grants certification for sleep medicine to both physicians and non-physicians. However, the board does not allow one to practice sleep medicine without a medical license.\n\nCreated in 1990 by the American Academy of Sleep Medicine (with assistance from European Sleep Research Society, the Japanese Society of Sleep Research, and the Latin American Sleep Society), the International Classification of Sleep Disorders is the primary reference for scientists and diagnosticians. Sleep disorders are separated into four distinct categories: parasomnias; dyssomnias; sleep disorders associated with mental, neurological, or other medical conditions; and sleep disorders that do not have enough data available to be counted as definitive sleep disorders. The ICSD has created a comprehensive description for each sleep disorder with the following information.\n\n\nSomnologists employ various diagnostic tools to determine the nature of a sleep disorder or irregularity. Some of these tools can be subjective such as the sleep diaries or the sleep questionnaire. Other diagnostic tools are used while the patient is asleep such as the polysomnograph and actigraphy.\n\nA sleep diary is a daily log made by the patient that contains information about the quality and quantity of sleep. The information includes sleep onset time, sleep latency, number of awakenings in a night, time in bed, daytime napping, sleep quality assessment, use of hypnotic agents, use of alcohol and cigarettes, and unusual events which may influence a person's sleep. Such a log is usually made for one or two weeks before visiting a somnologist. The sleep diary may be used in conjunction with actigraphy.\n\nSleep questionnaires help determine the presence of a sleep disorder by asking a patient to fill out a questionnaire about a certain aspect of their sleep such as daytime sleepiness. These questionnaires include the Epworth Sleepiness Scale, the Stanford Sleepiness Scale, and the Sleep Timing Questionnaire.\n\nThe Epworth Sleepiness Scale measures general sleep propensity and asks the patient to rate their chances of dozing off in eight different situations. The Stanford Sleepiness Scale asks the patient to note their perception of sleepiness by using a seven-point test. The Sleep Timing Questionnaire is a 10-minute self-administration test that can be used in place of a 2-week sleep diary. The questionnaire can be a valid determinate of sleep parameters such as bed time, wake time, sleep latency, and wake after sleep onset.\n\nActigraphy can assess sleep/wake patterns without confining one to the laboratory. The monitors are small, wrist-worn movement monitors that can record activity for up to several weeks. Sleep and wakefulness are determined by using an algorithm that analyzes the movement of the patient and the input of bed and wake times from a sleep diary.\n\nA physical examination can determine the presence of other medical conditions that can cause a sleep disorder.\n\nPolysomnography involves the continuous monitoring of multiple physiological variables during sleep. These variables include electroencephalography, electrooculography, electromyography, and electrocardiography as well as airflow, oxygenation, and ventilation measurements. Electroencephalography measures the voltage activity of neuronal somas and dendrites within the cortex, electro-oculography measures the potential between cornea and retina, electromyography is used to identify REM sleep by measuring the electrical potential of skeletal muscle, and electrocardiography measures cardiac rate and rhythm. It is important to point out that EEG, in particular, always refers to a collective of neurons firing as EEG equipment is not sensitive enough to measure a single neuron.\n\nAirflow measurement can be used to indirectly determine the presence of an apnea; measurements are taken by pneumotachography, nasal pressure, thermal sensors, and expired carbon dioxide. Pneumotachography measures the difference in pressure between inhalation and exhalation, nasal pressure can help determine the presence of airflow similar to pneumotachography, thermal sensors detect the difference in temperature between inhaled and exhaled air, and expired carbon dioxide monitoring detect the difference in carbon dioxide between inhaled and exhaled air.\n\nThe monitoring of oxygenation and ventilation is important in the assessment of sleep-related breathing disorders. However, because oxygen values can change often during the course of sleep, repeated measurements must be taken to ensure accuracy. The direct measurements of arterial oxygen tension only offer a static glimpse, and repeated measurements from invasive procedures such as sampling arterial blood for oxygen will disturb the patient's sleep; therefore, noninvasive methods are preferred such as pulse oximetry, transcutaneous oxygen monitoring, transcutaneous carbon dioxide, and pulse transit time.\n\nPulse oximetry measures the oxygenation in peripheral capillaries (such as the fingers); however, an article written by Bohning states that pulse oximetry may be imprecise for use in diagnosing obstructive sleep-apnea, due to the differences in signal processing in the devices.\n\nTranscutaneous oxygen and carbon dioxide monitoring measure the oxygen and carbon dioxide tension on the skin surface respectively, and the pulse transit time measures the transmission time of an arterial pulse transit wave. For the lattermost, pulse transit time increases when one is aroused from sleep, making it useful in determining sleep apnea.\n\nSnoring can be detected by a microphone and may be a symptom of obstructive sleep-apnea.\n\nThe Multiple Sleep Latency Test (MSLT) measures a person's physiological tendency to fall asleep during a quiet period in terms of sleep latency, the amount of time it takes for someone. An MSLT is normally performed after a nocturnal polysomnography to ensure both an adequate duration of sleep and to exclude other sleep disorders.\n\nThe Maintenance of Wakefulness Test (MWT) measures a person's ability to stay awake for a certain period of time, essentially measuring the time one can stay awake during the day. The test isolates a person from factors that can influence sleep such as temperature, light, and noise. Furthermore, the patient is also highly suggested to not take any hypnotics, drink alcohol, or smoke before or during the test. After allowing the patient to lie down on the bed, the time between lying down and falling asleep is measured and used to determine one's daytime sleepiness.\n\nThough somnology does not necessarily mean sleep medicine, somnologists can use behavioral, mechanical, or pharmacological means to correct a sleep disorder.\n\nBehavioral treatments tend to be the most prescribed and the most cost-efficient of all treatments; these treatments include exercise, cognitive behavioral therapy, relaxation therapy, meditation, and improving sleep hygiene. Improving sleep hygiene includes making the patient sleep regularly, discourage the patient from taking daytime naps, or suggesting they sleep in a different position.\n\nMechanical treatments are primarily used to reduce or eliminate snoring and can be either invasive or non-invasive. Surgical procedures for treating snoring include palatal stiffening techniques, uvulopalatopharyngoplasty and uvulectomy while non-invasive procedures include continuous positive airway pressure, mandibular advancement splints, and tongue-retaining devices.\n\nPharmacological treatments are used to chemically treat sleep disturbances such as insomnia or excessive daytime sleepiness. The kinds of drugs used to treat sleep disorders include: anticonvulsants, anti-narcoleptics, anti-Parkinsonian drugs, benzodiazepines, non-benzodiazepine hypnotics, and opiates as well as the hormone melatonin and melatonin receptor stimulators. Anticonvulsants, opiates, and anti-Parkinsonian drugs are often used to treat restless legs syndrome. Furthermore, melatonin, benzodiazepines hypnotics, and non-benzodiazepine hypnotics may be used to treat insomnia. Finally, anti-narcoleptics help treat narcolepsy and excessive daytime sleepiness.\n\nOf particular interest are the benzodiazepine drugs which reduce insomnia by increasing the efficiency of GABA. GABA decreases the excitability of neurons by increasing the firing threshold. Benzodiazepine causes the GABA receptor to better bind to GABA, allowing the medication to induce sleep.\n\nGenerally, these treatments are given after the behavioral treatment has failed. Drugs such as tranquilizers, though they may work well in treating insomnia, have a risk of abuse which is why these treatments are not the first resort. Some sleep disorders such as narcolepsy do require pharmacological treatment.\n\n"}
{"id": "2007951", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007951", "title": "Rhadamistus", "text": "Rhadamistus\n\nRhadamistus (, ) (died 58) was a royal prince of the Pharnavazid dynasty of the Kingdom of Iberia who reigned over the Kingdom of Armenia from 51 to 53 and 54 to 55. He was considered a usurper and tyrant, who was overthrown in a rebellion supported by the Parthian Empire.\n\nRhadamistus was the eldest son of King Pharasmanes I of Iberia. His mother was an unknown Armenian princess of the Artaxiad dynasty, who was the daughter of the Artaxiad Armenian monarchs Tigranes IV and his sister-wife Erato. Rhadamistus was known for his ambition, extraordinary strength, size of body, good looks and valor. Rhadamistus suffered impatiently an aged father's keeping him so long out of possession of the Kingdom of Iberia, which even if he had it, still seemed too small for satisfaction of his desires. Rhadamistus, by publicly talking about it in his audacious manner scared Pharasmanes as with his own declining years he feared usurpation by his son so he convinced Rhadamistus to make war upon his uncle, King Mithridates of Armenia. Rhadamistus pretended that he was at feud with his father and stepmother and went to his uncle Mithridates. His uncle received Rhadamistus like a son and with an excessive kindness. Later as if he reconciled with his father he returned to Iberia, telling his father that everything was ready and that he must complete this affair by using his sword. Meanwhile, his father, Pharasmanes invented a pretext for war by recalling when he was fighting with the king of the Albanians and appealing to the Romans for help, his brother, had opposed him and he would now avenge him because of that.\n\nPharasmanes gave his son a large Iberian army, who by a sudden invasion forced Mithridates to take shelter in the fortress of Gorneas, which was strongly garrisoned by the Romans under the command of Caelius Pollio, a camp-prefect, Casperius and a centurion. Rhadamistus reminded his uncle of their tie of being relatives, of the seniority in age of his father, and how he himself was the father-in-law of him, as Rhadamistus was married on Mithridates' daughter Zenobia. Rhadamistus told him that the Iberians were not against peace and urged his uncle to conclude a treaty. Pharasmanes by secret messages had recommended Rhadamistus to hurry on the siege by all possible means.\n\nLater, Pollio, swayed by Rhadamistus' bribery, induced the Roman soldiers to threaten capitulation of the garrison. Under this compulsion, Mithridates agreed to surrender to his nephew and quit the fortress. Rhadamistus seeing his uncle threw himself into his embraces, feigning respect and calling him father-in-law and his parent. He promised that he would do him no harm or violence either by the sword or by poison. He drew him into a neighboring woods, where he assured him that the appointed sacrifice was prepared for their confirmation of peace in the presence of the Iberian gods, as it was their custom, whenever they joined alliance, to unite their right hands and bind together the thumbs in a tight knot and then, when the blood would flow into the extremities, they would let it escape by a slight puncture and then suck it in turn.\n\nBut on this occasion the one who was applying the knot pretended that it had fallen off, and suddenly seized the knees of Mithridates flinging him to the ground. At the same moment a rush was made by others, and chains were thrown around him. Rhadamistus was mindful of his promise so he neither unsheathed the sword nor used any poison against his uncle to kill him, but instead had him thrown on the ground and then smothered his uncle under a mass of heavy clothes and featherbeds. Later the sons of Mithridates were also butchered by Rhadamistus for having shed tears over their parent's death. Rhadamistus also killed Mithridates' wife, who was his own sister.\n\nRhadamistus became King of Armenia in 51. Rome chose not to aid their Armenian allies, as their summoned council said \"any crime in a foreign country was to be welcomed with joy\". They only nominally demanded from Pharasmanes to withdraw from Armenian territory and remove his son. Despite this, the Roman governor of Cappadocia, Paelignus, invaded Armenia and ravaged the country. Syrian governor Gaius Ummidius Durmius Quadratus sent a force to restore order, but was recalled so as not to provoke a war with Parthia. Consequently, King Vologases I, having recently ascended the Parthian throne and needing a principality for his brother Tiridates, he saw in the situation of Armenia an excellent opportunity of gratifying his brother and advancing his own reputation. To detach Armenia once more from the dominion of Rome and re-attach it to Parthia would be a great inauguration of his reign so he sent his large army into Armenia in 51, eventually driving out the Iberians in 53. A severe winter epidemic and terrible plague forced the Parthians to withdraw from Armenia, allowing Rhadamistus to return who was now fiercer than ever. Rhadamistus treated Armenians with extraordinary severity, looking on them as rebels who could forsake him if such opportunity is given. He punished those Armenian cities that had surrendered to the Parthians, which soon revolted and replaced him with the Parthian prince Tiridates I in 55.\n\nRhadamistus escaped along with his pregnant wife, Zenobia. Unable to bear a long ride on horse, out of fear of the enemy and love of her husband, she convinced Rhadamistus to kill her with the honourable death to avoid the shame of captivity from their pursuers. Rhadamistus embraced, cheered, and encouraged her wife, admiring her heroism, he unsheathed his scymitar, stabbed her, dragged her to the bank of the Aras River and committed her to the river stream, so that her body might be swept away. Then in headlong flight he hurried to Iberia, his ancestral kingdom. Zenobia meanwhile as she yet breathed and showed signs of life on the calm water at the river's edge, was found by some shepherds, who inferring from her noble appearance and that she was no base-born woman, bound up her wound and applied to it their rustic remedies. When they found out her name and her adventure, they conveyed her to the city of Artaxata to King Tiridates, who received her kindly and treated her as a royal person. Rhadamistus himself returning home to Iberia was soon, in 58, put to death as traitor who had plotted against the royal power by his own father who wanted to prove his loyalty to Rome, and in particular to Emperor Nero. Pharasmanes died later in the same year as well and he was succeeded by his second son and brother of Rhadamistus, Mihrdat, who became a new king of Iberia.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2007954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007954", "title": "Visco fuse", "text": "Visco fuse\n\nA visco fuse is a higher-quality fuse used for consumer fireworks. It is most commonly colored green or red, and is found as a twisted, coated strand. It is also used to create delays in the firing of multiple firework displays.\n\nVisco is a 3/32 - 1/8 inch (2–3 mm)-diameter cord with a black powder core. There are three external layers to visco fuse. First, a layer of string is wound around the core, then a second, less tight, layer of string is wound in the opposite direction to prevent unraveling. The last layer is a low-nitrate nitrocellulose lacquer that keeps the fuse from falling apart. The last layer helps to make the visco fuse water resistant and to prevent moisture from degrading the black powder core. Unlike dynamite safety fuse, visco fuse burns with a visible external flame. After ignition, most visco fuses can burn underwater.\n\nCannon fuse is a visco fuse that is most often thicker, steadier burning, and often extra coated to be more waterproof. Most cannon fuses of high quality can burn while under water. Cannon fuse is normally red or green in color.\n\nFlying fish fuse is a modified type of visco-type fuse used in fireworks. The composition in the core is a metallic spark composition or another effect instead of/as well as black powder. Flying fish can thus perform as a main effect instead of just an initiator. For example, simply lighting a short piece of flying fish on the ground makes it fly through the air, seeming to swim in random directions while emitting sparks and noise. An aerial shell loaded with many such pieces results in myriad fragments sparking and whizzing high in the air as a substitute for standard pyrotechnic stars.\n\nIgniter Cord is a commercial grade of visco fuse that is designed to ignite multiple safety fuses. Like visco, igniter cord burns with an external, visible flame. It is often heavily lacquered for water resistance, and sometimes has an inner wire core for mechanical strength.\n\n"}
{"id": "2007965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007965", "title": "Mount Nelson, Tasmania", "text": "Mount Nelson, Tasmania\n\nMount Nelson is a suburb of the city of Hobart, Tasmania, Australia above the Hobart suburb of Sandy Bay and to the south of Hobart's CBD. Because of its views over the River Derwent (Tasmania), it is one of the more prestigious suburbs in Hobart.\n\nThe main road in Mount Nelson is Nelson Road, which extends up the mountain from the Wrest Point Hotel Casino into the Sandy Bay suburb. It is known for its \"bends\", which consist of seven very sharp corners created as the road winds its way up the mountain. Nelson Road was constructed in 1908 to provide better access to the Mount Nelson signal station.\n\nMount Nelson was originally named 'Nelson's Hill' by Captain William Bligh (of Mutiny on the Bounty fame) in 1792 in honour of David Nelson, the botanist of the Bounty mission, as \"he was the first white man on it\" when the Bounty visited 'Van Diemens Land' on its way to Tahiti. Nelson was one of the Bounty crew who was loyal to Bligh during the mutiny. He died at Kupang in Timor on 20 July 1789 of an 'inflammatory fever' caused by the long open-boat voyage following the mutiny. His funeral was attended by the Governor and officers from every ship in the harbour. The name 'Nelson's Hill' was later changed to Mount Nelson.\n\nWhen Governor Lachlan Macquarie visited Van Diemen's Land in 1811, he directed that a signal post be established on the summit of Mount Nelson to announce the appearance of all ships entering the estuary. The semaphore technology of the signal station was superseded when Tasmania's first telephone line was established between the Mount Nelson signal station and the Hobart telegraph office in 1880. \n\nMost of the modern suburban development in Mount Nelson has taken place after 1945 when the government encouraged settlement of immigrants escaping the destruction that took place in Europe after World War II. During this same period the section of hillface north of the bends on Nelson Road, which used to be a firing range, was converted into university farm land for the University of Tasmania.\n\nA \"Rialannah\" Post Office opened on 1 April 1948 and was renamed \"Mount Nelson\" in 1956. It closed in 1971.\n\nIn 1967 a large number of houses were destroyed by the Black Tuesday Bushfires.\n\nHobart College, one of Hobart's four public secondary colleges, is located on the mountain. Mary, Crown Princess of Denmark, wife of Frederik, Crown Prince of Denmark, is a graduate of Hobart College.\n\nMt Nelson is home to Mt Nelson Primary School. The school has approximately 200 students from Kinder - Grade 6. The school is a feeder to Taroona High School and encompasses Mt Nelson and Tolmans Hill.\n\nMount Nelson is one of the breeding grounds for the endangered Swift parrot. It is thought that there are only around 1000 breeding pairs in existence.\nSeveral bushland tracks (e.g. the Historical Truganini walking track) weave through the surrounding area. The Skyline Reserve also includes a collection of walking tracks. The Signal Station remains one of the areas main man-made attractions.\n\n"}
{"id": "2007968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007968", "title": "CHS Inc.", "text": "CHS Inc.\n\nCHS Inc. is a Fortune 100 business owned by United States agricultural cooperatives, farmers, ranchers, and thousands of preferred stock holders. Based in Inver Grove Heights, Minnesota, it owns and operates various food processing and wholesale, farm supply, Cenex brand fuel, financial services and retail businesses, and is a co-owner of Ventura Foods, a vegetable oil processor.\n\nIt is ranked 1st on the National Cooperative Bank Co-op 100 list of mutuals and cooperatives (ranked by 2012 revenue), and 96th (by 2017 revenue) in the Fortune 500 2018 list of United States corporations.\n\nThe history of CHS began in 1931 with the founding of the Farmers Union Central Exchange in Saint Paul, Minnesota. Later, the core cooperative company became Cenex, from the combination of the last two words in its previous name.\n\nIn 1998, Cenex merged with Harvest States Cooperatives to form Cenex Harvest States.\n\nIn 2003, the cooperative changed its legal name to CHS Inc.\n\n"}
{"id": "2007975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007975", "title": "Maleny, Queensland", "text": "Maleny, Queensland\n\nMaleny is a town and a locality in the Sunshine Coast Region in Queensland, Australia.\n\nMaleny (pronounced mah-lay-knee) is north of Brisbane on the Blackall Range overlooking the Sunshine Coast hinterland. Nearby towns include Landsborough, Montville, Peachester, Palmwoods and Hunchy. Nearby places of geographical significance include the Glass House Mountains and Baroon Pocket Dam (in North Maleny).\n\nBaroon Pocket Dam constructed in 1989 is fed by the Obi Obi Creek, a significant tributary of the upper Mary River, which drains the basalt capped Maleny plateau. Water runoff statistics have been kept in this area since the 1940s showing that the average annual rainfall is and the runoff into Baroon Pocket Dam receives annually about 64,000 megalitres. The Baroon Pocket Dam holds about 61,000 megalitres of water and the treatment plant supplies about 150 megalitres of treated water to the Sunshine Coast daily.\n\nThe name Maleny is probably derived from the parish name, which in turn is possibly derived from the Scottish place name Malleny, a village in Midlothian, Scotland.\n\nThe area around Maleny was originally populated by the Nalbo and the Dallambara—two aboriginal tribes of the Gubbi Gubbi language group. The area was known for its bunya feasts which happened every third year when the giant bunya tree was in fruit.\n\nThe first European to document Maleny was the explorer Ludwig Leichhardt who describes the area in his travel diary in 1844. The first European settlement followed in the wake of the Gympie gold rush of 1867. A track linking Maleny to Landsborough was cut in 1880.\n\nAn official proclamation of Maleny as a town occurred in 1891.\n\nThe Maleny Butter Factory began operation in 1904.\n\nMaleny Post Office opened by February 1906 (a receiving office had been open from 1889).\n\nMaleny Township State School opened on 22 April 1913. In 1915 its name was changed to Maleny State School.\n\nMaleny was a timber town until the early 1920s and then was a centre of dairy production and fruit growing.\n\nSt George's Anglican Church was dedicated on 6 September 1931 by Archbishop Sharp. It had been relocated from the Beerburrum Soldier Settlement where it was dedicated (also as St George's) on 20 August 1922 by Canon D.J. Garland, but it fell into disuse due to the failure of the settlement and was formally closed in August 1931 prior to its removal to Maleny. The building was originally built as a chapel at the Enoggera army barracks during World War I by the Soldiers' Church of England Help Society. Many of the furnishings and ornaments of the church were donated in memory of soldiers who had died, including the altar and its furnishings which were donated in the member of Earl Kitchener.\n\nAlthough a campaign to have a police station in the town was started in the 1920s, it wasn't until 1952 that permission to convert a house into the police station and residence (in use until 2017) was granted.\n\nMaleny State High School opened 27 January 1987.\nOn 15 August 1995, the Queensland Governor Leneen Forde dedicated the Maleny War Memorial.\n\nSince just after the turn of the 20th century, the Maleny Community Centre has provided facilities to residents and visitors for a wide range of activities. Located in the middle of town, the original centre was established as the result of a gift by one of its residents.\n\nAt the Maleny recorded a population of 3,441 people.\n\nThe Maleny Library was opened in 1998 with a major refurbishment in 2012.\n\nMaleny has a number of heritage-listed sites, including:\n\nMaleny is situated approximately above sea level, among the characteristic rolling green hills of the Sunshine Coast hinterland. Prior to European settlement, the area was covered in thick sub-tropical rainforest with huge hardwood trees. Loggers in the late 19th and early 20th centuries opened up the area seeking valuable timber, which was prized locally and in Europe. Heavy logging led to the almost complete denuding of the rainforest clad hills in the district around Maleny. Only a few pockets of forest remain in steeper terrain and in one large remnant patch (around ) which now forms Mary Cairncross Reserve.\n\nLocated on the humid eastern slopes of the Blackall Range, Maleny is one of the wettest towns in Queensland away from the north tropical coast. The average annual rainfall is about ; however, during unusually wet years twelve-month rainfall totals of up to can be recorded, with monthly totals over and 24-hour totals up to . Temperatures are mild and rarely get above in summer or drop below in winter.\n\nMaleny has replaced its timber-cutting and dairying past with tourism with a large influx of people who wanted an alternative lifestyle. As well as being on the Hinterland tourist drive, Maleny attracts daytrippers from Brisbane and the Sunshine Coast who are attracted to the various stores, art galleries and specialty shops.\n\nMaleny Community Centre is a fully community-owned centre, completed Stage 1 of a three Stage redevelopment in 2010. Stage 2 was completed in 2012 and included rebuilding the Maple Street frontage and renovating the building into two storeys featuring an Queensland-style verandah over the footpath, giving much needed shelter on the main street. The Third Stage comprises the building of a new cultural centre on the MCC's second building at No. 1 Bicentenary Lane. The Maleny Community Centre renovations (Stage 1 & 2) were designed by Maleny based building designer, Norman Richards building design + interiors and built by Maleny based builder Ross Meneely.\nMaleny's population growth since 2000 has brought an increase in urban development. Many local residents have resisted some of the development, the most notable being the establishment of a Woolworths store in the town. In July 2005, a rally attracted about 300 protestors objecting to the store. Many locals were opposed to the idea (79% of local residents opposed according to \"Market Facts\" survey of 20 July 2005). A number of motivations for the protest existed but of particular concern was that the supermarket was to be built over a significant platypus habitat and that local traders would be negatively affected as well as issues regarding local council members going against the original town planning agreement regarding all development in Maleny to be in fitting with \"the village environ\" that characterises much of the townships of the Blackall Range. Badges and posters reading \"I WON'T SHOP THERE\" were seen in Maleny as part of the anti-Woolworths campaign, although the bumper stickers can now be seen in the Woolworths car park. The campaign against the supermarket achieved international coverage. Despite protests and an offer to purchase the site for A$2 million (pledged by local residents) the supermarket opened on 3 April 2006. Although many residents refuse to shop in the supermarket, nonetheless Woolworths recorded it as one of its top 30 stores in 2008. In 2013 many residents protested the construction of a petrol station and convenience store at 19 & 21 Bunya St, Maleny by the IGA Supermarket. Protestors cited proximity to the primary school as the main issue with the development proposal. The proposal was abandoned by the owners of the IGA supermarket who said \"We don't want to embroil our business in something that is controversial.\" In 2016 Sydney based advertising executive and author David Rollins proposed a \"TT Style\" motorcycle race for the Maleny area. Maleny residents formed a protest group to oppose this event called \"Peaceful Roads Sunshine Coast.\" The group protested the event citing safety, noise and access issues of concern and that the event was not in keeping with the existing tourism activities in the area. The application was withdrawn in August 2018.\n\nMaleny is home to a large number of cooperative enterprises. There are art galleries, health food and organic produce stores, cafes, the Maleny Credit Union, a thriving business centre, rural settlements, a community golf course, alternative schools, alternative medical treatment centres, organic farms, intentional communities including the Crystal Waters Permaculture Village in nearby Conondale and the Fountainhead organic retreat and education centre (whose founder received a certificate from Senator Mark Furner for his work in helping those with depression and anxiety).\n\nMaleny hosted the Maleny Folk Festival from its inception in 1987 to 1993, when it was moved to the nearby town of Woodford and renamed to the Woodford Folk Festival.\n\nSince its construction the Baroon Pocket Dam has become an important recreation area for the Sunshine Coast hinterland. There is a sailing club, naval cadet unit, fishing club, accommodation and picnic facilities.\n\nAnanda Marga River School is a private primary (Prep-6) school for boys and girls at 251 Bridge Creek Road (). In 2017, the school had an enrolment of 126 students with 14 teachers (10 full-time equivalent) and 17 non-teaching staff (10 full-time equivalent).\n\nMaleny State School is a government primary (Prep-6) school for boys and girls at 16 Bunya Street (). In 2017, the school had an enrolment of 409 students with 32 teachers (27 full-time equivalent) and 23 non-teaching staff (14 full-time equivalent). The school offers a special education program.\n\nMaleny State High School is a government secondary (7-12) school for boys and girls at 50 Bunya Street (). In 2017, the school had an enrolment of 705 students with 60 teachers (55 full-time equivalent) and 29 non-teaching staff (20 full-time equivalent). The school offers a special education program.\n\nMaleny Independent School is a private secondary (7-8) school at 23 Coral Street ().\n\nIn 2018, Jeanette Jamieson became the Anglican priest in charge of the Parish of Maleny, having previously served in the Parish of Kilcoy. The church is part of the Anglican Diocese of Brisbane.\n\nThere are also a number of Protestant churches in the town: the Maleny Presbyterian Church, Maleny Uniting Church, the Church on the Rise, a Baptist church and Maleny Seventh Day Adventist Church.\n\nThe Sunshine Coast Regional Council operate a library at 5 Coral Street which has a meeting room, wireless internet access, and access to a variety of books and periodicals. The library also conducts a number of public programs for community members of all ages. Plans to extend the Maleny Library are ongoing, as the library is the second smallest of the Council's libraries but one of the busiest. The Sunshine Coast Libraries Plan 2014 - 2024 recommends reassessment of car parking provisions, the interior design of library spaces and opportunities to use alternate community spaces for library activities.\n\nThe Maleny branch of the Queensland Country Women's Association meets at 1 Bicentenary Lane.\n\n"}
{"id": "2007979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007979", "title": "Rosina Lhévinne", "text": "Rosina Lhévinne\n\nRosina Lhévinne (née Bessie; March 29, 1880, Kiev, Ukraine, then a part of the Russian EmpireNovember 9, 1976, Glendale, California) was a pianist and famed pedagogue.\n\nRosina Bessie was the younger of two daughters of Maria (née Katz) and Jacques Bessie, a prosperous jeweller from a Dutch Jewish family who emigrated to the Russian Empire to ply his trade as a diamond merchant. There were violent anti-Semitic riots in Kiev during her first year, and the Bessies moved to Moscow in 1881 or 1882. The young Rosina began studying piano at the age of six with a teacher in Moscow, where the family had moved shortly after her birth. When her teacher became ill, a family friend suggested that she continue her studies with Josef Lhévinne, a talented student at the Moscow Imperial Conservatory, five years older than Rosina. She showed great talent and several years later was admitted to the Conservatory, where she also studied with Lhévinne's teacher, Vasily Safonov. At her graduation in 1898, she won the Gold Medal in piano as had Josef before her, and that year the two were married. They had two children, Constantine \"Don\" Lhevinne (1906-1998) and Marianna Lhevinne Graham (1918-2012).\n\nRosina gave up her ambitions to be a solo performer to avoid clashing with her husband Josef's career as a concert pianist, a vow she kept until well after his death in 1944. Thus she confined her activities to teaching and performing on two pianos with her husband. Together they lived and taught in Moscow, Tbilisi, Georgia and later in Berlin before emigrating after World War I and the Russian Revolution to New York, where they joined the faculty of the Institute of Musical Art which later became The Juilliard School.\n\nHaving acted essentially as a preparatory teacher to her more famous husband's students for 46 years, she felt reluctant after his death to assume his full duties at the school; however, Juilliard's administrators were unanimous in wanting her to continue in her husband's place. \n\nAmong her students were many of the best young pianists of the 1940s, 50s and 60s, including Van Cliburn, who arrived in her class in 1951. At the height of the Cold War in 1958, he was awarded the First Prize at the inaugural Tchaikovsky Competition in Moscow becoming an instant worldwide celebrity and bringing international fame to his teacher. Other Lhévinne students include James Levine, Music Director of the Metropolitan Opera, John Williams, composer and conductor of the Boston Pops Orchestra, the composer Judith Lang Zaimont, pianists John Browning, Walter Buczynski, Seth Carlin, Eduardo Delgado, Madeleine Forte, Edna Golandsky, Tong-Il Han, Anthony & Joseph Paratore, Daniel Pollack, Marcus Raskin, Misha Dichter, Edward Auer, Santos Ojeda, Joel Ryce-Menuhin, Garrick Ohlsson, Joseph William Fennimore, Hiroko Nakamura, Neal Larrabee, and many others including several present-day teachers at the Juilliard School.\n\nIn 1949 Mme. Lhévinne reconsidered her decision never to play in public as a soloist, and in her 70s and 80s she made a remarkable series of appearances, first in collaboration with the Juilliard String Quartet, and later in concertos at the Aspen Summer Music Festival. Her greatest moment as a soloist came in January 1963, aged 82, with her debut at the New York Philharmonic under conductor Leonard Bernstein playing Frédéric Chopin's Piano Concerto No. 1, a piece she had performed for her graduation from the Moscow Conservatory sixty-five years earlier. There are recordings of both the Chopin Concerto and Mozart's C major Concerto, K. 467.\n\nMadame Lhévinne continued to teach at Juilliard and at the University of Southern California in Los Angeles where she died in 1976 at age 96.\n\nJust prior to her death, Robert K. Wallace published a book about the Lhévinnes entitled \"A Century of Music-Making: The Lives of Josef and Rosina Lhévinne\", for which she was extensively interviewed.\n\nIn 2003, Madame Lhévinne's former student and assistant, Salome Ramras Arkatov, produced a documentary film, \"The Legacy of Rosina Lhévinne\", which contains rare archival footage of Lhévinne's teaching and performing as well as interviews with a number of her former students.\n\n"}
{"id": "2007980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007980", "title": "Apology Project", "text": "Apology Project\n\nThe Apology Project, a 1980 conceptual art project, was created by Allan Bridge who employed the pseudonym Mr. Apology. Bridge used an answering machine to record confessions from anonymous callers. More than 1000 hours of confession were recorded, ranging from common confessions to ritualistic murders.\n\nSome of the confessions were published in Bridge's magazine \"Apology\".\n\nThis Apology Project is not to be confused with the Apology Project of Elliniko Teatro, a theatrical production based on Plato's The Apology of Socrates, featuring Yannis Simonides (see http://www.ellinikotheatro.org.)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2007984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007984", "title": "Allan Bridge", "text": "Allan Bridge\n\nAllan Bridge (February 14, 1945 – August 5, 1995) was an American conceptual artist best known for his creation in 1980 of the confessional phone system known as the Apology Line. He went by the pseudonym Mr. Apology (a label which has since been adopted by an advice columnist) and used new technology of the time, an answering machine, to record confessions from anonymous callers.\n\nBorn in Falls Church, Virginia, Bridge attended the University of Chicago, where he earned a bachelor's degree in fine arts. Returning to the Washington, D. C. area, he became one of the second generation of artists of the Washington Color School movement.\n\nFor a series of large-scale paintings, he used poured paint techniques and then moved on to geometric abstraction. He was championed and collected by Gene Baro, at one time the director of the Corcoran Gallery of Art. Bridge exhibited at the Corcoran and many other galleries in the 1970s. He created at least 79 paintings in the years spanning 1970 to 1977. Bridge married Elinor Schiele in 1977, and they divorced in 1981.\n\nEventually, Bridge tired of the visual image and began making interactive machines with moral implications. The most famous best known of these is \"Crime Time\", where the viewer spins a wheel of chance and either gets away with a \"crime\" by receiving a marble from the machine, or he gets \"caught\" and his hand is held in a lock for 30 seconds. From \"Crime Time\", the next jump for his restless mind was the Apology Line, created after he moved to Manhattan in 1977.\n\nBridge sold rights for a film and novel. \"Mr. Apology\" by Campbell Black was published by Ballantine Books in 1984, and this was adapted by screenwriter Mark Medoff for the HBO thriller, \"Apology\" (1986). The film switched the sex of the conceptual artist from male to female (portrayed by Lesley Ann Warren).\n\nIn 1993, Bridge was the subject of a long article, \"The Confession,\" by Alec Wilkinson, published in the October 4, 1993, issue of \"The New Yorker\". Wilkinson's article was reprinted a decade later in \"Mr. Apology and Other Essays\" (Houghton Mifflin, 2003).\n\nSome confessions taped from the Apology phone calls were published in \"Apology\", a magazine edited and published by Bridge. The last issue was published January 1996. After investigating the notion of bringing the Apology Project to the online service GEnie, he was working on a book about the Apology Line and making plans in 1995 to expand the Apology confessions to the Internet.\n\nIn 1989, his second wife, Marissa Bridge, founded Marissa Bridge Studios, which became one of New York's leading decorative painting and restoration companies, with offices in Manhattan and the Hamptons. Active in boating and scuba diving, Bridge was diving in August 1995, when he was killed by a hit-and-run jet skier. Lydia Nibley wrote about this in her essay \"All Apologies\" (December 16, 2004):\n\nSeveral passages about Bridge and jet skis are scattered throughout \"The Unwanted Sound of Everything We Want: A Book About Noise \" by Garret Keizer.\n\n\"Apology\", a new theatrical piece based on the life and work of Allan Bridge, is being developed by Greg Pierotti, co-writer of \"The Laramie Project\".\n\nA bank of phone booths were installed for Bridge's 1981 show at the New Museum, enabling guests to pick listen directly to the original Apology Line tapes.\n\nThe film \"Apology\" won the Audience Award at the 1987 Cognac Festival du Film Policier, and that same year it won a CableACE Award for Maurice Jarre's music score.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2008004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2008004", "title": "John Brumby", "text": "John Brumby\n\nJohn Mansfield Brumby (born 21 April 1953) is the current Chancellor of La Trobe University and former Victorian Labor Party politician who was Premier of Victoria from 2007 to 2010. He became leader of the Victorian Labor Party and premier after the resignation of Steve Bracks. He also served as the Minister for Veterans' Affairs and the Minister for Multicultural Affairs. He contested his first election as premier at the November 2010 Victorian state election. His government was defeated by the Liberal/National Coalition led by Ted Baillieu. Brumby resigned as Labor leader after the election, on 30 November, to be replaced by Daniel Andrews. Within weeks of this leadership change, Brumby left parliament, with a Broadmeadows by-election taking place on 19 February 2011.\n\nBrumby currently is the national president of the Australia China Business Council (ACBC).\n\nBorn in Melbourne, Brumby was educated at Ivanhoe Grammar School and then later, Melbourne Grammar School. He graduated in commerce (BCom) at University of Melbourne, in 1974; and he completed a Diploma of Education (DipEd) at the State College of Victoria at Rusden, in 1975.\n\nHe was a teacher at Eaglehawk High School, in Bendigo, from 1976 to 1979. From 1979 to 1983 he was an employee of the Victorian Teachers Union. He was also active in the Labor Party.\n\nIn 1983 Brumby was elected to the Australian House of Representatives for the seat of Bendigo, which he held until his defeat in 1990. A member of the Labor Unity faction, he was a strong supporter of Prime Minister Bob Hawke and an opponent of the Socialist Left faction, which historically had its stronghold in the Victorian branch of the Labor Party.\n\nBrumby then worked as a consultant before being appointed chief of staff to the federal Minister for Resources and Tourism, Alan Griffiths with responsibility for the development of policy in areas such as energy, petroleum, minerals and tourism. He held this position until February 1993, when he was elected to the Victorian Legislative Council at a by-election for the seat of Doutta Galla Province in Melbourne's western suburbs.\n\nThe Victorian Labor government of Joan Kirner was defeated at the October 1992 state elections by the Liberal Party led by Jeff Kennett. Kirner resigned as leader after a short period and was succeeded by her deputy Jim Kennan. When Kennan later resigned from parliament in June 1993, Brumby was elected his successor. He resigned from the Legislative Council and was elected to the Victorian Legislative Assembly at a by-election for Kennan's seat of Broadmeadows in Melbourne's outer north.\n\nIn 1996, Brumby opposed the Kennett state government's proposed relocation of the State Museum to the Carlton Gardens site adjacent to the Royal Exhibition Building. It was at this time that Brumby first proposed that the Royal Exhibition Building and Carlton Gardens be nominated for World Heritage listing. The World Heritage nomination was opposed at the time by the Kennett Liberal state government. It was not until after the 1999 state election that the Bracks Labor government nominated and obtained World Heritage Listing for the site.\n\nFrom 1993 to 1996 Brumby worked to restore Labor's fortunes in Victoria. The defeat of the federal Labor government in March 1996 prompted Kennett to call an early state election three weeks later. Labor only managed a net two-seat gain, leaving it 20 seats behind the Coalition. This defeat was claimed to have undermined Brumby's position as leader. Brumby was later replaced as Labor leader in March 1999, agreeing to resign in favour of Shadow Treasurer Steve Bracks.\n\nSteve Bracks narrowly won the state election called by Kennett in September 1999 and appointed Brumby as Minister for Finance, Assistant Treasurer and Minister for State and Regional Development. Brumby formed part of the core leadership team of senior ministers in the new government along with Bracks, Deputy Premier John Thwaites and Attorney-General Rob Hulls. Bracks initially served as treasurer as well as premier, assisted by Brumby who was responsible for Victoria's finances and most of the workload of the Treasury portfolio. On 22 May 2000, Brumby was appointed state treasurer.\n\nAs treasurer, Brumby presided over a period of steady economic growth in Victoria, and his economic management was given some of the credit, along with the personal popularity of Bracks, for Labor's landslide re-elections in 2002 and 2006. Brumby ensured that the Labor Government maintained a budget surplus.\n\nDuring 2004 Brumby was criticised by the state Liberal opposition for sharp increases in the rate of land tax in Victoria, which was criticised by many for potentially threatening the viability of many small businesses. Land tax rates were cut in the 2005 state budget. Faced with a choice of having to fund road infrastructure at the expense of development of Victoria's schools, hospitals and public transport, Brumby decided to impose a toll on the new Scoresby Freeway (later known as EastLink) in eastern Melbourne. The decision, which broke a 2002 pre-election promise, provoked a hostile response from the Liberal Opposition and local community groups as well as causing the (Liberal) Federal Government to withhold its share of the funding for the project.\n\nOn 27 July 2007 the then Victorian premier, Steve Bracks, announced his retirement from politics, citing family reasons for the decision. Deputy Premier John Thwaites also announced his resignation later that day. On 30 July Brumby was elected unopposed as leader, and was sworn in as premier later that day with Attorney-General Rob Hulls as his deputy.\n\nAn early challenge occurred in November 2007 when State Labor MP Tammy Lobato publicly criticised Brumby over a decision by cabinet to allow genetically modified canola to be grown in Victoria. Other State Labor MPs were also said to be upset over Brumby's approach to the issue, and in particular, the way that he allegedly rail-roaded the policy through.\n\nBrumby's response to a plan proposed by then Liberal Party Prime Minister John Howard for the federal government to assume control of the Murray-Darling Basin water catchment from the states was also an early issue. Under the previous Premier, Steve Bracks, Victoria had been the only state to refuse to accept Howard's plan. Following the election on 24 November 2007 of a new Australian Labor Party controlled federal government Brumby agreed to commit Victoria to an amended plan on 26 March 2008.\n\nIn April 2008 he was widely applauded for his move to break up the Victorian poker machine gambling duopoly starting in 2012. The move was supported in particular by organisations such as the Interchurch Gambling Taskforce and the Australian Hotels Association. Some concerns, however, were raised that the decision could ultimately result in a A$1 billion compensation claim from the companies standing to lose their duopoly status as a result of the decision, Tattersalls and Tabcorp. The government, however, denied that any claim for compensation would be successful.\n\nIn May 2008, following the reporting of several episodes of violence in various Melbourne Bars and Clubs in the media, Brumby announced a 2am entry curfew on Melbourne city bars, pubs and clubs. The move sparked considerable opposition, with venue operators launching successful legal contests to the legislation, and patrons protesting outside State Parliament House. Brumby announced the dropping of the plan in November 2008, following an increase in violence which the legislation had been aimed at curbing. Critics of the curfew system called the plan populist and regressive, with little concern for the impact on the vast majority of club-goers that did not instigate violence. Subsequently, liquor licensing changes impacted live music venues, notably with The Tote Hotel (amongst others) claiming they had been forced into closure as the operator could no longer afford to support the extra staff required under changes to legislation. Critics argued that these types of venues were not often problem areas for police, and that legislative changes were poorly planned and implemented.\n\nDuring 2008 Brumby's government passed an act decriminalising abortion.\n\nHe contested as Premier at the November 2010 Victorian state election and his government was narrowly defeated by the Liberal/National Coalition led by Ted Baillieu.\n\nOn 30 November, Brumby announced that he was standing down as Labor leader in Victoria, and that the parliamentary Labor Party would meet on 3 December to elect a new leader and shadow ministry. Ted Baillieu was sworn in as Premier on 2 December, formally ending both Brumby's tenure and what is still by far the longest-serving Labor government in Victoria. Brumby resigned from parliament on 21 December.\n\nFollowing his resignation from parliament, Brumby was appointed as a joint Vice Chancellor's Fellow at Monash University and the University of Melbourne, chairman of Motor Trades Association of Australia Superannuation Fund, member of the federal government's GST Distribution Review panel, and a director of Huawei in Australia. In 2017 Brumby was appointed an Officer of the Order of Australia for distinguished service to the Parliament of Victoria, to economic management and medical biotechnology innovation, to improved rural and regional infrastructure, and to the community. Brumby currently is the Australian China Business Council (ACBC) national president.\n\nIn February 2019, Brumby resigned from Huawei board and in March 2019 Brumby took up his appointment as Chancellor of La Trobe University.\n\nJohn Brumby is married to Rosemary McKenzie and has three children. His father, Malcolm Brumby, died from a stroke on 26 September 2010.\n\n"}
{"id": "2008013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2008013", "title": "Sheldon Silver", "text": "Sheldon Silver\n\nSheldon Silver (born February 13, 1944) is a former lawyer, Democratic Party politician from New York City and convicted felon who served as Speaker of the New York State Assembly from 1994 until 2015.\n\nIn 2015, Silver was arrested on federal corruption charges, and resigned as Speaker of the Assembly shortly thereafter. In November 2015, Silver was convicted of all charges; the felony convictions triggered his automatic expulsion from the Assembly.\n\nIn May 2016, Silver was sentenced to 12 years in prison and ordered to repay $5.3 million in ill-gotten gains and $1.75 million in additional fines. Silver's conviction was overturned by the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit in Manhattan in July 2017, but in May 2018, following a retrial, he was found guilty on the same charges, and in July 2018 was sentenced to seven years in prison. , he is awaiting resentencing following the Second Circuit Court's decision on his appeal of the outcome of the second trial, in which the guilty verdict on some of the charges was set aside but upheld for other charges, and has not yet had to report to prison.\n\nAn Orthodox Jew whose parents were Russian immigrants, Silver has lived all his life on Manhattan's Lower East Side. He graduated from the Rabbi Jacob Joseph High School on Henry Street, where he was captain of the basketball team. Silver graduated from Yeshiva University with a Bachelor of Arts degree in 1965, and received his J.D. from Brooklyn Law School in 1968. \n\nSilver practiced law with the firm of Schecter and Schwartz from 1968 until 1971, and then served as law secretary for New York City Civil Court Judge Francis N. Pecora from 1971 to 1976. In addition to Silver's duties in the New York State Assembly from 1977 to 2015, he was \"of counsel\" at Weitz & Luxenberg, one of New York State's largest personal injury litigation firms.\n\nFor years, Weitz & Luxenberg insisted that Silver's ties with the firm were negligible. In 2007, the \"New York Post\" charged that Silver's refusal to disclose the terms of his employment or the income he received raised suspicions of a conflict of interest. When these details became public, the income he had received from Weitz & Luxenberg and the manner in which Silver obtained it ultimately led to his arrest, resignation as Speaker, conviction, and prison sentence.\n\nHe was first elected to the Assembly in 1976 and rose to key committee leadership positions. He represented the Assembly District variously numbered as 62nd through 65th, comprising much of Lower Manhattan, notably the Financial District and the former World Trade Center site. Silver advanced to the chairmanship of the Assembly Ways and Means Committee in 1991, and served in this post until becoming Speaker.\n\nDuring the election years of his speakership, 1994–2014, Silver's district typically re-elected him with 80 to 90 percent of the vote. In 2008, he had his first Democratic primary challenge in over two decades, winning 69 percent, or 7,037 votes, to defeat his challengers, Paul Newell, who earned 22 percent (2,401 votes), and Luke Henry with 9 percent (891). Silver was re-elected on November 4 with 27,632 votes. His Republican challenger, Danniel Maio, received 7,387 votes.\n\nOn February 11, 1994, after Saul Weprin died from a stroke, Silver became the Speaker of the New York State Assembly. He was re-elected 11 times.\n\nAs Speaker, Silver was instrumental in the reinstatement of the death penalty in New York State in 1995. It was eventually ruled unconstitutional by the New York Court of Appeals in 2004 (see \"People v. LaValle\"), as the law stipulated that if jurors were deadlocked between sentences of life without parole and execution, the court would sentence the defendant to life imprisonment with parole eligibility after serving 20 to 25 years.\n\nThe Court ruled that in such a case, execution would seem unfairly preferable to the jury. New York's crime rate had dropped significantly in the decade since the law was passed, without seeing a single execution, and Silver let the law expire without much debate.\n\nIn December 2005, after two New York City police officers were killed in as many months, Governor George Pataki called for reinstatement of the death penalty. \"The New York Times\" quoted Silver's spokesman Charles Carrier as saying, \"He no longer supports it because Assembly hearings have shown it is not the most effective way to improve public safety.\"\n\nIn 1997 and throughout his Assembly career, Silver was a key advocate of state-administered rent regulation of New York apartments. This complex and highly politicized system made the Speaker a central figure, continually courted by major participants in the real-estate industry.\n\nIn 1967, New York City leveled the Seward Park Urban Renewal Area in Silver's neighborhood, and removed more than 1,800 low-income largely Hispanic families, with a promise that they could return to new low-income apartments when they were built. However, the site was kept undeveloped for decades afterward, as Silver and key allies strove to maintain the area's Jewish identity and opposed affordable housing, which would have brought more Hispanic and Chinese residents. Finally in 2012, the site was approved for the Essex Crossing mixed-use development project. Construction is scheduled to be completed in 2024, some 57 years after the site was cleared.\n\nIn 1999, Silver was instrumental in the repeal of New York City's commuter tax on non-resident earners. The repeal was a benefit to those commuting to work in the city from surrounding areas, but came at a substantial cost to New York City residents. Silver was criticized by city leaders for removing the tax, and although he suggested he would support reinstating it after the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, he took no steps to do so.\n\nIn 2000, Silver faced an attempted \"coup\" in the Assembly as members, primarily from Upstate New York and dissatisfied with his leadership style, tried to overthrow him as Speaker. Michael Bragman, the leader of the backlash, lost his position as majority leader. An editorial in \"The Buffalo News\", written in response, criticized Silver for having too much power:\nThe problem—which also exists in the State Senate—can be boiled down to a single overarching issue: The Assembly speaker has too much power. He controls everything, from the legislation that can be voted on to how his normally docile members vote on it. He decides what the Assembly will accept in a state budget. He negotiates secretly with the other two leaders to hammer out important, expensive and far-reaching laws. And he ignores the wishes of less-exalted lawmakers.\n\nSimilar criticisms of New York State's \"three men in a room\" have been widespread for years.\n\nIn July 2007, Silver was skeptical about Mayor Michael Bloomberg's New York congestion pricing program. When a meeting of the Democratic Assembly Conference indicated the proposal lacked sufficient support, Silver declined to schedule a vote on the measure, and it died. Although he stated that he \"probably would have voted for the bill,\" a majority of his conference opposed the proposed plan.\n\nProponents argued that it would reduce traffic congestion and vehicle emissions, lead to less-crowded streets, and raise much-needed funds for public transportation, while opponents objected to the notion of a new driving tax.\n\nSilver, in his role as Speaker, was widely blamed for the delay in passing A04146A through the Assembly to legalize professional mixed martial arts in New York State. New York became the last of the 50 states to allow the sport in early 2016, after Silver's expulsion from the Assembly.\n\nA former top aide to Silver, chief counsel J. Michael Boxley, was accused of raping two legislative aides while he was working for the Speaker, and Boxley eventually pleaded guilty to sexual misconduct. Silver was sued for failing to investigate the accusations properly and for tolerating a culture of sexual harassment in the Assembly. In 2006, Silver and the Assembly leadership agreed to pay $500,000 to settle the lawsuit. Similar settlements in 2012 and 2015 resulted from multiple harassment charges against former Assemblyman Vito Lopez, and Silver was accused of not acting forcefully to prevent Lopez's behavior. Silver apologized for not reporting cases to the Assembly's Ethics Committee as required, and said that since then he \"put in place new policies to ensure these incidents are dealt with swiftly and transparently.\"\n\nOn January 7, 2015, Silver was re-elected Speaker of the New York State Assembly for the 11th time, with almost unanimous support from the Democratic majority despite an ongoing federal probe into his outside income.\n\nTwo weeks later, on January 22, Silver was arrested on federal corruption charges resulting from that probe. The federal inquiry, which followed the state's abruptly disbanded Moreland Commission to Investigate Public Corruption, focused on large payments that Silver received for years from Goldberg & Iryami, a law firm that specialized in seeking reductions of New York City real estate taxes for real estate developers. Silver was alleged to have persuaded developers who had business with the state to use the firm, which in turn generated $700,000 in referral fees to Silver.\n\nInvestigators led by U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara charged that Silver did not properly disclose the payments from the firm on his annual financial disclosure filings with the state. Goldberg & Iryami's major client was the state's single-largest political donor, while the founding partner, Jay Goldberg, was Silver's former Assembly counsel, and partner Dara Iryami agreed to testify under immunity.\n\nSimilar charges were also filed involving millions of dollars in referral fees that Silver received from the law firm Weitz & Luxenberg. In this scheme, Silver was alleged to have directed about $500,000 in state grants to Dr. Robert Taub, a researcher in diseases caused by asbestos and the director of the Columbia University Mesothelioma Center.\n\nTaub then referred asbestos claimants to Weitz and Luxemburg, a law firm that employed Silver and paid him $1.4 million in salary and another $3.9 million in referral fees although he did no work on the asbestos cases for them. Weitz and Luxemburg promptly placed Silver on leave. Both Taub and another of Silver's longtime associates, Brian Meara, provided key information to investigators in exchange for non-prosecution agreements.\n\nOn January 30, after a week of intense political pressure and dwindling support, Silver submitted his resignation as Speaker, effective February 2, while retaining his position as a member of the Assembly and vowing to fight the charges against him. On February 3, the Assembly elected Carl Heastie as their new Speaker.\n\nOn April 25, 2015, Silver was indicted on additional charges of making illegal investments through private vehicles, netting a profit of $750,000. He pleaded not guilty to those charges three days later, on April 28.\n\nSilver's trial lasted for much of November 2015. On November 30, 2015, a unanimous jury found Silver guilty on all seven counts, triggering automatic expulsion from the Assembly. The New York Supreme Court, Appellate Division, which handles judicial and attorney misconduct, affirmed his automatic disbarment for the felony conviction.\n\nOn May 3, 2016, federal judge Valerie E. Caproni of the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York, who presided over the trial, sentenced Silver to 12 years in jail, and ordered him to pay $5.3 million in ill-gotten gains and $1.75 million in additional fines. Silver received two prison terms: 12 years for six criminal counts against him and 10 years on the seventh, to run concurrently.\n\nAfter the conviction, he remained free on bail as a panel of judges considered his appeal based on the U.S. Supreme Court's decision in \"McDonnell v. United States\" that reversed the corruption conviction of a former Virginia Governor.\n\nThe Supreme Court decision in the McDonnell case narrowed the kinds of activities that could constitute corruption, and Silver's conviction was overturned by the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit in Manhattan on July 13, 2017.\n\nAfter his conviction was overturned, Silver was retried on the same charges. On May 11, 2018, he was again found guilty on all counts. On July 27, 2018, Judge Caproni sentenced him to seven years in prison, five years less than the sentence she gave him for his first conviction, citing his advancing age.\n\nSilver was due to report to prison on October 5, 2018, but again appealed his conviction, this time to the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. While his case was under continued appeal, he was not imprisoned, and remained free on $200,000 bail.\n\nOn March 14, 2019, a week before Silver was rescheduled to report to prison, a three-judge panel of the Second Circuit Court of Appeals allowed him, without explanation, to remain free while they continued to consider his appeal. Two of three judges on the panel questioned whether the alleged bribery schemes really fit the Supreme Court's narrowed definition of corruption. On January 21, 2020, the panel unanimously dismissed the three charges stemming from Silver's involvement in the asbestos exposure cases but upheld the other four charges related to the kickbacks from Goldberg & Iryamai and for money laundering, sending the case back to Judge Caproni for resentencing. He is still free while awaiting resentencing.\n\nSilver and his wife Rosa, a former special needs schoolteacher, have four adult children. According to court papers unsealed during the sentencing phase of his first trial, Silver was alleged to have had two extra-marital affairs, both of which were connected to his Albany position.\n\nBy the time he became Speaker of the Assembly, he was known to play basketball with other high-ranking officials, including former Governor Mario Cuomo and former Comptroller Alan G. Hevesi.\n\nTwo weeks after Silver's first criminal conviction, his son-in-law Marcello Trebitsch was sentenced to prison for a separate multimillion-dollar crime, also prosecuted by Bharara's office.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2008016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2008016", "title": "Bobby Cannavale", "text": "Bobby Cannavale\n\nRobert Michael Cannavale (; born May 3, 1970) is an American actor known for various stage, television, and film roles, including regular or recurring roles in \"Third Watch\", \"Boardwalk Empire\", \"Vinyl\", \"Will & Grace\", \"Mr. Robot\", and \"Master of None\".\n\nCannavale had a recurring role on the NBC comedy series \"Will & Grace\" as Will Truman's long-term boyfriend Officer Vincent \"Vince\" D'Angelo, for which he won the 2005 Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Guest Actor in a Comedy Series. He also portrayed Gyp Rosetti during the third season of the HBO drama series \"Boardwalk Empire\", for which he won the 2013 Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Drama Series. In 2016, he starred in the HBO drama series \"Vinyl\", produced by Martin Scorsese and Mick Jagger. In 2017, he joined the cast of the USA Network drama series \"Mr. Robot\" during its third season. The following year, Cannavale portrayed Colin Belfast in the Prime Video psychological thriller series \"Homecoming\" (2018-present). \n\nFor his roles in \"Mauritius\" and \"The Motherf**ker with the Hat\", Cannavale was nominated for the Tony Award for Best Featured Actor in a Play and the Tony Award for Best Actor in a Play, respectively. He has appeared in Tom McCarthy's \"The Station Agent\" (2003), Woody Allen's \"Blue Jasmine\" (2013), Paul Feig's \"Spy\" (2015), \"I, Tonya\" (2017), and Martin Scorsese's \"The Irishman\" (2019).\n\nCannavale was born and raised in Union City, New Jersey, the son of Isabel and Salvatore \"Sal\" Cannavale. His father is of Italian descent, while his mother is Cuban and moved to the U.S. in 1960. He was raised Catholic and attended St. Michael's Catholic School, where he participated in a number of extracurricular activities, including being an altar boy and member of the chorus. When he was eight, Cannavale secured the plum role of the lisping boy, Winthrop, in his school's production of \"The Music Man\" and later played a gangster in \"Guys and Dolls\", which cemented his love for performing. Cannavale's parents divorced when he was 13 and his mother moved the family to Puerto Rico. After two years in the American territory, they settled in Margate, Florida. After being kicked out of his high school in Florida during his senior year, Cannavale returned to New Jersey in order to be closer to New York to launch his acting career and went to summer school to earn a diploma from Union Hill High School.\n\nCannavale began his acting career in the theater – with no acting training – and gained early film roles in \"Night Falls on Manhattan\" (1997) and \"The Bone Collector\" (1999), Cannavale became well known when he starred as Bobby Caffey for two seasons on \"Third Watch\". Following this, in 2001, he starred with Alan Arkin in \"100 Centre Street\" – which was written and directed by Sidney Lumet, his then-father-in-law.\n\nIn 2002, he joined the cast of \"Ally McBeal\" for the last five episodes, but the show was then cancelled. Following this, he starred with Yancey Arias and Sheryl Lee in the miniseries \"Kingpin\". In 2003, Cannavale briefly appeared on the last two episodes of \"Oz\". He also appeared in the film \"The Station Agent\" as a man who befriends a little person removed from society. From 2004 to 2006, he had a recurring guest role on \"Will & Grace\" as Vince D'Angelo, the boyfriend (and eventual husband) of Will Truman (Eric McCormack) However, in the reboot, they are revealed not to be married. For this role, he won the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Guest Actor in a Comedy Series in 2005. He has also appeared in the films \"Snakes on a Plane\", \"The Guru\" (2002), \"Shall We Dance?\" (2004) and \"Romance & Cigarettes\" (2005), and guest starred in \"Sex and the City\", \"Six Feet Under\", \"Oz\", \"Law & Order\" – and its spin-off series \"\" and \"\". He appeared in \"The Take\" (2007) alongside John Leguizamo and Tyrese Gibson, as Agent Steve Perelli.\n\nCannavale serves as the voice of Corado R. Ciarlo, known as \"Babe\", in the Ken Burns PBS film series \"The War\" (the story of World War II) from the perspective of the men who fought in combat and their loved ones at home. He also read the audiobook versions of Richard Price's 2008 novel \"Lush Life\" and Ed Falco's 2012 novel \"The Family Corleone\". On August 25, 2008, ABC ordered his pilot \"Cupid\", a remake of the 1998 program which had starred Jeremy Piven and Paula Marshall, to series. In the new version of the series, Cannavale starred opposite Sarah Paulson with script development overseen by original series creator Rob Thomas. ABC debuted \"Cupid\" on March 31, 2009, but cancelled the series after less than two months, on May 19, 2009.\n\nIn 2008, he received a Tony Award nomination for his role as Dennis in the Broadway play, \"Mauritius\". In 2009, CBS announced Cannavale would reprise his role of Det. Eddie Saccardo on the television show, \"Cold Case\", for three episodes, starting with the third episode of Season 7. Cannavale was also in the film \"Win Win\" in 2011, as Terry Delfino. He later starred in the Broadway play \"The Motherfucker with the Hat\" alongside Chris Rock and Annabella Sciorra. On May 3, 2011 (his 41st birthday), he was nominated for a Tony Award for his leading role in that production.\n\nIn 2012 and 2013, he guest starred in the fourth and fifth season of Showtime's \"Nurse Jackie\", for which he was nominated twice again for the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Guest Actor in a Comedy Series in 2012 and 2013, as well as joining the cast of HBO's \"Boardwalk Empire\", portraying the psychopathic Sicilian gangster Gyp Rosetti in the third season. His performance on \"Boardwalk Empire\" won critical acclaim, earning him the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Drama Series in 2013. That same year he also played Lewis, a vengeful clown on \"Modern Family\" during the third season, for which he was nominated for Best Guest Performer in a Comedy Series at the 2nd Critics' Choice Television Awards in 2012. \"TV Guide\", in its \"Cheers & Jeers 2012\" issue, praised Cannavale for this \"trifecta of great performances\", commenting, \"This guy is so good at playing bad, it's scary.\" He played what Matt Zoller Seitz of RogerEbert.com called a \"heroically moving\" lead role in \"Danny Collins\" in 2015.\n\nSince 2015, Cannavale has been involved with voice-over work for Playing On Air, a non-profit organization that \"records short plays [for public radio and podcast] written by top playwrights and performed by outstanding actors.\" He has starred in three short plays, including \"Crazy Eights\" by David Lindsay-Abaire, co-starring Rosie Perez and John Leguizamo; \"Mere Mortals\" by David Ives; and \"2 Dads\" by David Auburn.\n\nCannavale will appear with Rose Byrne in the play \"Medea\", written and directed by Simon Stone, in 2020.\n\nFrom 1994 to 2003, Cannavale was married to actress/screenwriter Jenny Lumet – director Sidney Lumet's daughter and performer Lena Horne's granddaughter – with whom he has a son, actor Jake Cannavale. Cannavale and Jake were cast as father and son in season four of \"Nurse Jackie\".\n\nSince 2012, Cannavale has been dating actress Rose Byrne. Cannavale and Byrne's first child, Rocco Robin Cannavale, was born on February 1, 2016. He and Byrne had their second child together, a son named Rafa, in November 2017.\n\nPrimetime Emmy Awards\nTony Awards\nOther Awards \n\n"}
{"id": "2008043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2008043", "title": "Pit school", "text": "Pit school\n\nA pit school was a covert school for African American children from the time when they were prevented from receiving an education due to repression and lack of freedom of assembly.\n\nThese schools were held at night. A pit would be dug and covered over.\n\nA pit school is referred to in the book \"Nightjohn\" by Gary Paulsen.\n\n"}
{"id": "2008046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2008046", "title": "Francisco Antonio Pinto", "text": "Francisco Antonio Pinto\n\nFrancisco Antonio Pinto y Díaz de la Puente (; July 23, 1785 – July 18, 1858) was a Chilean politician who served as President of Chile between 1827 and 1829.\n\nHe was born in Santiago, the son of Joaquín Pinto and Mercedes Díaz de la Puente. Pinto completed his early studies in the Convictorio Carolino, the best school in the country at the time, and then studied law at the \"Real Universidad de San Felipe\", being admitted to practice on October 11, 1808.\n\nIn his youth he dedicated himself to commerce. According to the social norms of the time, he also became a militia officer in the \"\"Regimiento del Rey\"\" (King's regiment). In 1810, while in Lima, he heard of the formation of the Government Junta of the Kingdom, and immediately returned to the country, where he was charged with a diplomatic mission to Buenos Aires. After that successful first mission, he was sent to England, and then to other European countries, with the mission of gathering support for the independence movement. While in Europe he learnt of the news of the defeat of the Chilean army in the Battle of Rancagua and the recapture of Chile by the Spanish troops. He then returned to Argentina to cooperate in the formation of a new army.\n\nPinto married Luisa Garmendia Aldurralde and had two children, Aníbal Pinto, who would become President of Chile, and Enriqueta Pinto, future wife of President Manuel Bulnes. His grandnephew (and grandson of José Miguel Carrera), Ignacio Carrera Pinto, became a hero at the War of the Pacific.\n\nIn 1820 he finally returned to Chile. He was then sent by Bernardo O'Higgins to Peru, to help in the independence of that country. In 1824 he was named as Minister of Government and Foreign Affairs, and in 1825, Intendant of Coquimbo.\n\nIn 1827, due to the resignation of President Agustín Eyzaguirre, General Ramón Freire was elected President, while General Pinto was elected Vice President. When General Freire himself resigned on May 5, 1827, General Pinto took over the position as \"Accidental President\". As such he participated in the drafting of the Constitution of 1828.\n\nA new presidential election was called in May 1829. General Pinto was the clear winner out of 9 candidates, with 118 electoral votes (29.06%), and was proclaimed elected on October 19. Nevertheless, the onset of the Chilean Civil War of 1829 was at hand.\n\nThe problem that caused the revolution happened in the vice presidential election. The winner should have been the first runner-up, Francisco Ruiz-Tagle (98 electoral votes or 24.13%), or the second runner-up, General José Joaquín Prieto, (61 votes or 15.02%), both conservatives. Nonetheless, Congress was controlled by the liberals and presided by Francisco Ramón Vicuña, also liberal. Arguing that no vice-presidential candidate had a majority, they selected Joaquín Vicuña, brother of the president of the senate, even though he only got 48 electoral votes (11.82%). That was all the excuse needed by the conservatives to rebel.\n\nPinto resigned the Presidency on November 2 (less than two weeks after his proclamation), an event that marked his retirement from public life. All his powers were assumed by the President of Congress, Francisco Ramón Vicuña, who was already acting as \"Accidental President\" since July 16, 1829, when Pinto had delegated his powers on him for the duration of the electoral campaign.\n\nPinto only returned to public life in 1841, as a congressman. The Liberal party proclaimed him as a candidate to the Presidency in the Chilean presidential elections of 1841, in opposition to his son in law, General Manuel Bulnes, whom finally resulted elected. He did not participate in the campaign in any active form. Nonetheless he was elected a deputy for La Serena, and president of the chamber, on May 30, 1843. He was elected a senator in 1846, and became a member of the permanent war and navy commission. He was also named Privy Council by President Bulnes.\n\nOn July 5, 1847 he was elected president of the Senate. He was reelected as a senator on 1855. Pinto died in Santiago at the age of 72, on July 18, 1858, before the end of his mandate as senator.\n"}
{"id": "2008060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2008060", "title": "Filipino name", "text": "Filipino name\n\nFilipinos have various naming customs. They most commonly blend the older Spanish system and Anglo-American conventions, where there is a distinction between the \"Christian name\" and the \"surname\". The construct containing several middle names is common to all systems, but having multiple \"first\" names and only one middle and last name is a result of the blending of American and Spanish naming customs. The Tagalog language is one of the few national languages in Asia to practically use the Western name order while formally using the eastern name order. The Philippine naming custom is identical to the Spanish and Portuguese name customs and, to an extent, Chinese naming customs.\n\nToday, Filipinos usually abide by the Spanish system of using both paternal and maternal surnames, with the latter used as the \"middle name\". An example would be \"Jose Cuyegkeng y Mangahas\" becoming \"Jose Mangahas Cuyegkeng\", where the particle \"y\" is used only for legal purposes and is otherwise dropped. The middle name in its natural sense would have been the second name if the person had one, but is never counted as an individual's given name.\n\nIn ancient times, the Tagalogs had a naming system that changed via family dynamics. A Tagalog man (especially a chief) would lose his name, take his first born's name, and become known as \"son's/daughter's father\"; rather than his offspring adopting his surname like today. If he was baptized into Christianity, he would take a Spanish \"Christian name\" but retain his native name as surname. For example Calao's father became Don Luis Amanicalao (Lord Luis, a chief of Tondo, Calao's Father). This also applied to mothers (e.g., Inanicao) etc. One also gained numerous \"poetic\" titles (i.e., \"pamagat\"; lit. \"to have something to go before\", today literally translated as \"title\", from where the prenom \"Gat\" is derived) from his renown/actions (eg valiance in battle) or other naming means (like a naming feast for those without offspring). \n\nHistorical examples: Manila/Tagalog chiefs listed in the Tondo Conspiracy (1587-88) \"Phelipe Amarlangagui/Amarlangagui\" ('Felipe, Ama ni Langawi'), \"Luis Amanicalao\" (Luis, Ama ni Calao), and \"Omaghicon/Amaghikon\" (Ama ni Hikon). \n\nAnother example is found in the only surviving baybayin writings; i.e., the Sto. Thomas Land Titles (1613-1625). In Document B (1625), Line 12, a certain \"Amadaga\" was named. The contract stated that the owner of the land adjacent to the one sold in the contract was \"Maria Gada\" who had acquired it from \"Amadaga\". Although no other context was given in the document, it is quite possible that \"Maria Gada\" is the daughter of \"Ama ni Gada\" (misspelled) and inherited the land from him as a legacy.\n\nFilipinos may have one or more official given names (as registered in their birth certificates and baptismal certificates) and various types of temporary or permanent nicknames. Filipinos commonly give themselves or each other nicknames and monikers. Some nicknames are carried for life, while others are used only with certain groups; a person can have multiple nicknames at different ages or among different groups of people.\n\nLong given names can be shortened in various ways. \"Emmanuel\" can become \"Eman\", \"Manuel\", \"Manolo\", \"Manny\", or \"Manoy\"; and \"Consolación\" would be shortened to \"Connie\", \"Cons\", \"Sol\", or \"Chona\".\n\nFilipino women with two given names such as \"María Cristina\" or \"María Victoria\" may choose to abbreviate the very common \"María\" (in honour of the Virgin Mary) as \"Ma\". (with a full stop), thus rendering these given names as \"Ma. Cristina\" or \"Ma. Victoria\". Filipino males with two given names such as \"José Mariano\" or \"José Gerardo\" could follow the same practice of abbreviating \"José\" as \"Jo.\", though this is not as consistent. Another common practice seen in other cultures (most commonly with Spanish conventions) is to elide or combine multiple given names into one nickname. The aforementioned \"María Cristina\" and \"María Victoria\" may thus acquire the nicknames \"Maricris\" and \"Marivic\". Thus the Filipino names \"Maricel\", \"Maritoni\", \"Marijo\", \"Maritess\", and \"Maricon\" come from \"Maria Celia (or Celeste)\", \"Marie Antoinette\", \"María Josefa\" (or \"Josefina)\", \"María Teresa\", and \"María Concepción\" (or \"Consolación)\" respectively.\n\nA related custom is that parents combine their given names to create a name for their child. For example:\n\nSome first names like \"Lodegrano\" or \"Lorimer\" may have been invented on the spot by the parents, or derived from some partially remembered foreign term. Other coined first names have unusual spellings or spellings which are pronounced differently.\n\nHonorifics and titles are sometimes used in place of a person's actual name. As such, titles for family elders are often used by the younger persons and then adopted by the wider community: \"Apo\" (grandson/granddaughter). \"Lolo\" (grandfather) and \"Lola\" (grandmother) are used for senior elders; \"Tatay/Itay/Ama\" (father) or \"Tito/Tiyo/Tsong\" (uncle) and \"Nanay/Inay/Ina\" (mother) or \"Tita/Tiya/Tsang\" (aunt) for middle-aged elders; \"Manong\" or \"Kuya\" (elder brother) and \"Manang\" or \"Ate\" (elder sister) for anyone slightly older than the person speaking.\n\nPeople in the Filipino community are often addressed by their military or police rank, professional titles or job descriptions, either with or without their names (e.g., \"Architect\", \"Attorney\", \"Engineer\", \"Teacher\" etc.) instead of \"Mister\", \"Miss\", \"Ms\", or \"Mrs\". especially when the addressee's name is not yet known by the speaker. This applies to all people that are living and working in the Philippines. \"Sir\" and \"Madam/Ma'am\" are usually not used before a nickname.\n\nPeople with the same name as their father are registered as \"Junior\" (abbreviated to \"Jr\".) or numbered with Roman numerals (III, IV, V, etc.); their father adds \"Senior\" (\"Sr\".) after his surname or suffix. Inevitably, the younger person tends to be nicknamed \"Junior\" or \"Jun\" permanently. This can also be applied to numerals; i.e., the nickname can be \"Third\" or \"Fourth\". Because of this, a family will necessarily bestow a variety of unofficial nicknames to distinguish the various people with nearly identical official given names.\n\nMany nicknames are bestowed by parents or other elders on children while they are still toddlers (e.g., \"Boy\", \"Toto/Totoy\" (young boy), \"Girlie\" etc.) and these nicknames are often carried by the person throughout their lives. These names may follow a certain pattern in certain cases, such as beginning with a certain letter of the alphabet (e.g., \"Diego Arnel\", \"Diamond Amelia\"), such that all their initials will be the same (e.g. \"DAZL\" if the middle name is \"Zulueta\" and the surname is \"Lim\"). An example is former Senator Joker Arroyo's brother, Jack. Children can also be named after certain themes, such as countries, car trademarks, and popular brand names. For instance, World Champion boxer and incumbent Senator Manny Pacquiao named his two daughters \"Queen Elizabeth\" and \"Princess\".\n\nThe Filipino given name \"Dranreb\" was invented by reversing the spelling of the English name \"Bernard\", while someone calling himself \"Nosrac\" bears the legal name \"Carson\". Joseph Ejército Estrada, Thirteenth President of the Philippines, began as a movie actor and received his nickname \"Erap\" as an adult; it comes from \"Pare\" spelled backwards (from Spanish \"compadre\", \"fellow godparent\".\n\nAn old custom is to replace or insert Filipino phonemes into a Spanish or English name: \"Mariano\" becomes \"Nano\", \"Edwin\" becomes \"Aweng\", \"Eduardo\" becomes \"Dwarding\", \"Roberto\" becomes \"Berting\", \"Ponciano\" becomes either \"Popoy\", \"Onse\", or \"Syano\". Sometimes there is a tendency to convert a grandiose given name into something more mundane, such as when \"John Paul\" becomes \"JayPee\", \"Peter John\" becomes \"Peejong\", \"Anthony\" becomes \"Tonyo\" and \"María Elena\" becomes \"Ineng\" or \"Inyang\". Complementary to this is the practise of anglicising (with the implication of \"modernising\") a Spanish given name. Thus \"José Roberto\" becomes \"Joseph Robert\" (further shortened to \"Joebert\") and \"Eduardo\" becomes \"Edward\" and then \"Eddy\" or \"Eddie Boy\" (sometimes further shortened to \"Daboy\").\n\nThe variety of Filipino names, some of them with negative connotations in the English language, often take English speakers by surprise. However, most Filipinos usually don't notice these negative connotations unless they are pointed out.\n\nMany Filipino celebrities and high-status personalities, such as actors and politicians, are often more well-known by their nicknames than their actual given names. One example of this is film and television celebrity German Moreno who is more known by the nickname \"Kuya Germs\" (\"kuya\" = elder brother).\n\nThough most Filipinos adopted Malaysian/Indonesian, Chinese and European (especially Spanish and English) surnames, some chose surnames that derive from words in indigenous languages, like Tagalog, Visayan (Cebuano and Hiligaynon), Ilocano, Kapampangan, and Pangasinan. Many indigenous surnames derive from words displaying qualities of people, especially those related to strength (e.g., Tagalog \"Macaraeg\" and \"Panganiban\"), defiance (e.g. Tagalog \"Dimayuga\"), or settlement (e.g. Cebuano/Hiligaynon \"Magbanua\").\n\nMost indigenous surnames are spelled closely following the Spanish-derived orthographic conventions of the time. Many of these words are spelled differently today in the various Philippine languages (following spelling reforms since the late 19th century).\n\nUnlike their lowlander counterparts, Igorots living in the Cordillera Central in northern Luzon were not conquered by the Spaniards and preserved their naming customs from foreign influence. Each group had their own naming customs, but generally, like Indonesian names, there is only one given name and no surname to speak of. The given name's meaning is usually connected to natural phenomena or objects, such as \"danum\" for water. Only the Igorots who have had interacted with Spaniards and lowlanders for trade were given a name that follows the binomial \"first name\"-\"surname\" system, such as Mateo Cariño and Mateo Carantes.\n\nAt the beginning of the 20th century and the advent of the American occupation of the Philippines, the Igorots' naming customs slowly conformed with the national legal naming system used today, aided by the evangelization efforts of American Protestant missionaries. Most older people, however, still keep the singular given name given to them by their parents while also using the \"Christian names\" to conform to Philippine law. The singular given names of some individuals living in the early 20th century have since been adopted as a surname by their descendants.\n\nAlmost all Filipinos had Spanish or Spanish-sounding surnames imposed on them for taxation purposes, but a number of them have indigenous Filipino surnames. On 21 November 1849, Governor General Narciso Clavería y Zaldúa issued a decree stating that Filipinos should adopt Spanish surnames to make census counting easier. Some Filipinos retained their native pre-colonial names, especially those who were exempted from the Clavería decree such as the descendants of rulers of the \"Maharlika\" or noble class. These surnames of the native nobility include Lacandola, Macapagal, Macabulos, and Tupas whom each descended from different Datus. They were allowed to keep the name to claim tax exemptions.\n\nThe Spanish surname category provides the most common surnames in the Philippines. At the course of time, some Spanish surnames were altered (with some eventually diverged/displaced their original spelling), as resulted from illiteracy among the poor and farming class bearing such surnames, creating confusion in the civil registry and a sense of detachment from their better-off relatives. Except for the \"ñ\", Filipino surnames from Spanish are written without accents due to US-imported typewriters used in civil registry that lack special characters.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2008068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2008068", "title": "John Cromwell (director)", "text": "John Cromwell (director)\n\nElwood Dager Cromwell (December 23, 1886 – September 26, 1979), known as John Cromwell, was an American film and stage director and actor. His films spanned the early days of sound to 1950s film noir, when his directing career was cut short by the Hollywood blacklist.\n\nBorn in Toledo, Ohio to a well-off Scottish-English family, executives in the steel and iron industry, Cromwell went to private high school at Howe Military Academy, in nearby Indiana, but never pursued a higher education. Instead, he fell in love with theater in Chicago and then made his way to New York City and a life in theater there in his early 20s.\n\nCromwell made his Broadway debut in \"Little Women\" (1912) a stage adaptation of Louisa May Alcott's novel by Marian De Forest. This version of Meg, Jo, Beth and Amy was an immediate hit and ran for 184 performances. His first directing effort, \"The Painted Woman\" (1913), failed, but young Cromwell was soon taken under the wing of William Bundy's Playhouse theater and spent the next fifteen years as the kind of traditional actor/stage manager of the time who put on dozens of plays on Broadway's stages.\n\nBy 1914, he was acting in and co-directing \"Too Many Cooks\" (1914), which ran for 223 performances. He was in American productions of two George Bernard Shaw plays: first in Shaw's \"Major Barbara\" and, in 1916, in a revival of\" Captain Brassbound's Conversion.\"\n\nSoon Cromwell himself was shipped off for a brief stint in the U.S. Army in World War I.\n\nBy the 1920s he had become a respected Broadway director, staging and still occasionally acting in works by future Pulitzer-Prize-winners Sidney Howard and Robert E. Sherwood, performing in the rarely-seen Ibsen play, Little Eyolf and being an in-house director for his mentor, William Bundy. In 1927, Cromwell directed and played the lead in the gangster drama, \"The Racket\", with newcomer Edward G. Robinson debuting in the kind of tough guy role for which he would become synonymous.\n\nThis hit expose of Chicago corruption - so scathing that it was banned in Chicago, supposedly by Al Capone himself - travelled to Los Angeles, where Cromwell was promptly snapped up by B.P. Schulberg to a Paramount Pictures contract as an actor and director, one of the Broadway feeding frenzy at the arrival of sound. \"The first thing that struck me,\" the lanky Midwesterner said, \"was the absolute paralysis of fear that the talkies had cast all over Hollywood.\"\n\nHe made his motion picture debut in \"The Dummy\" (1929), an early comedy talkie starring Ruth Chatterton and Fredric March - whom he would later direct - along with silent stars Jack Oakie, and ZaSu Pitts. His work as co-director with Edward Sutherland on the musical/romance \"Close Harmony\" starring Buddy Rogers, Nancy Carroll, Harry Green and Jack Oakie, and the musical/drama \"The Dance of Life\" (both released in 1929), allowed him to begin directing without collaboration, beginning with \"The Mighty\" that same year starring George Bancroft, in which he also played the part of Mr. Jamieson.\n\nHe directed \"The Texan\", starring Gary Cooper, in 1930; \"Tom Sawyer\" (1930), starring Jackie Coogan in the title role; Sinclair Lewis's \"Ann Vickers\" (1933), starring Irene Dunne, Walter Huston, Conrad Nagel, Bruce Cabot, and Edna May Oliver; and Somerset Maugham's \"Of Human Bondage\" (1934), starring Leslie Howard, Bette Davis, and Frances Dee. In 1934, Cromwell also directed a young Katharine Hepburn in Spitfire (1934), which succeeded at the box office despite its unlikely casting of Hepburn as a backwoods faith-healer.\n\nAnn Vickers, by the celebrated Midwestern novelist Sinclair Lewis - and Of Human Bondage - were both at RKO and both had censorship trouble. In the novel by Lewis, Ann Vickers is a birth control advocate and reformer who has an extramarital affair. The screenplay was finally approved by the Production Code when the studio agreed to make Vickers an unmarried woman at the time of her affair, thus eliminating the issue of adultery.\n\nThe screenplay for Maugham's \"Of Human Bondage\" was unacceptable to the Hays Code because Mildred Rogers (played by Davis), whom the club-footed medical student, Philip Carey (played by Howard), falls in love with, is not only a prostitute who conceives out of wedlock, but who also visibly dies of syphilis. Will Hays' office demanded that Mildred be made a waitress who comes down with TB and that she be married to Carey's rival with whom she runs off and becomes pregnant. RKO agreed to everything to keep from having to pay a fine.\n\nBut, despite their attempts to gut the story, Bette Davis' performance was so powerful, and her immorality still so obvious, that an outraged Will Hays decided it was time to put real teeth into his office and seriously toughen up on all film censorship. He spelled out a list of do's and don'ts - on the length of kisses, the banning of double beds, the punishment of all villains and so on - which would dictate the content of Hollywood screens until the 1960s, and he brought in the rigid, anti-Semitic Catholic Joseph Breen to enforce it. Thus, the very year of Of Human Bondage's release - 1934 - is the dividing line for the morally looser \"pre-Code\" era (even though the less rigid code had technically been in place since 1931) and the more sanitized films which followed it.\n\n\"Of Human Bondage\" made Cromwell's name as a director, and most specifically as a man who knew how to cast - he had to bargain with Warner Bros. to get the then little-known Bette Davis, who got an Oscar nomination for her portrayal of the vicious, lurid waitress Mildred in a performance unlike any a Hollywood actress had given to that point. Cromwell also agreed, quite unusually, to Bette Davis request to devise her own garish, mask-like make-up as she descends morally and physically into a kind of living hell. This was a radical departure from the glamorous looks that actresses were supposed to have even in their death scenes.\n\nCromwell was wooed by the powerful producer David O. Selznick to launch his new independent film company with \"Little Lord Fauntleroy\" (1936) starring Freddie Bartholomew and Dolores Costello. He followed this with two lesser-known works for Daryl Zanuck at 20th-Century Fox, directing Myrna Loy in To Mary With Love, a portrait of a marriage tested, not by adversity but by success. Then a hillbilly musical called \"Banjo on My Knee\" (1936) starring Barbara Stanwyck with a scene-stealing Walter Brennan, set in Alabama, and worked on by William Faulkner. The final script by the soon-to-be-celebrated writer-director Nunnally Johnson was well received. \"Banjo on my Knee\" got an Oscar nomination for Sound Recording by Edmund H. Hansen.\n\nIt was Selznick's glossy \"The Prisoner of Zenda\" (1937) starring Ronald Colman and Madeleine Carroll, with Raymond Massey, Mary Astor, David Niven, and Douglas Fairbanks, Jr. that truly solidified Cromwell's reputation as a top Hollywood director; wildly successful at the box office, it was nominated by the Academy for Lyle Wheeler's art direction and Alfred Newman's lush score (though Selznick did bring in another director, Woody Van Dyke, to reshoot the sword fights.) It also won honors for him that year at the Venice (Italy) Film Festival as Best Foreign Film.\" Cromwell's Algiers\" (1938) unveiled two exotic European imports, the debonair French actor Charles Boyer and an Austrian Jewish emigre fleeing the Nazi Anschluss named Hedy Lamarr in her Hollywood debut. The film was a near-exact remake of Julien Duvivier's 1937 French film of a gangster on the run, Pepe le Moko, this Hollywood version was produced by activist anti-fascist producer Walter Wanger and shot by James Wong Howe. Made famous by a line which never actually occurs in the film - \"Come with me to the Casbah\" - Algiers also garnered 4 Oscar nominations: for Boyer, supporting actor Gene Lockhart, art direction and Howe's cinematography.\n\nIn 1939, Cromwell made two back-to-back Carole Lombard pictures, first for Selznick, who paired the screwball comedian with upcoming actor Jimmy Stewart, in \"Made For Each Other\" (1939), a film that threw away Lombard's and Stewart's comedy skills on the trials of newlyweds who marry after one day, and whose baby nearly dies but is saved by a brave pilot making a treacherous flight bearing a miracle drug. The life-saving flight was a last-minute change based on producer Selznick's own white-knuckle experience when he chartered a TWA plane to fly a new serum developed in New York back to LA to save his beloved brother Myron's life. The serum was rushed to the hospital where Myron lay in a coma; the next day, he was out of danger. \"This is too good to waste on Myron,\" Selznick cracked. \"Let's put it in the picture.\" \n\nLombard was then teamed with Cary Grant in RKO's \"In Name Only\", where Grant plays an unhappily married wealthy man for whom Lombard's character, a young widow, falls but whose unloving society wife, played by Kay Francis, refuses to let him go. Carole Lombard was determined to work with Cromwell again and corralled him and Grant to team up with her. Oddly, this film also ended with a third act life-or-death medical cliffhanger, when the miserable Grant, sick with pneumonia, will die unless he has true love to live for - Lombard's. But it proved popular and turned a decent profit.\n\nAs tensions rose in Europe, Cromwell returned to his Broadway roots - and longtime friendships - by directing the film adaptation of Robert E. Sherwood's 1939 Pulitzer-prize-winning, anti-isolationist play \"Abe Lincoln in Illinois\" (1940) with Raymond Massey repeating his tour-de-force performance as Lincoln struggling with the decision to fight slavery, in which he had triumphed on Broadway. Gene Lockhart, and Ruth Gordon in her screen debut, starred with him, and Cromwell himself played the part of the abolitionist radical, John Brown. Once again, Cromwell's directorial skills brought his leading actor an Oscar nomination in what would be the most famous role of Massey's life, but neither Massey nor James Wong Howe, nominated for his work in the black-and-white category, won. The film also jostled with John Ford's \"Young Mr. Lincoln\" (1939), covering much of the same period in Lincoln's life as in Henry Fonda's Oscar-nominated portrayal from the year before.\n\nCromwell's 1940 film adaptation for Paramount of Joseph Conrad's first popular novel, \"Victory\" (1915), repeated a film that had already been made in 1930 by William Wellman and, in 1915, as a silent film with Lon Chaney Jr. Cromwell's version was adapted by John Balderston, who'd written \"The Prisoner of Zenda\", and starred Fredric March and Betty Field in a tropical psychological thriller.\n\nCromwell and Frederic March teamed up again in \"So Ends Our Night\" (1941), one of the most explicitly anti-Nazi films to be made in Hollywood before the United States entered the war at the end of that year. An adaptation of exiled German author Erich Maria Remarque's fourth novel \"Flotsam\", screenwriter Talbot Jennings adapted the story from a series of magazine articles even before it came out as a novel in 1941. Producers David Loew and Albert Lewin cast Fredric March, Margaret Sullavan and Glenn Ford as three desperate German exiles trapped and on the run after being deprived of their citizenship and passports by the Nazi regime.\n\nWith war declared on December 7, 1941, Cromwell returned to a bit of on-location swashbuckling with \"Son of Fury: The Story of Benjamin Blake\" (1942) starring Tyrone Power in one of his many costume roles and paired with rising star Gene Tierney and also featuring Frances Farmer.\n\nBut it was the war at home that inspired Cromwell's best-known and most-honoured film, the nearly three-hour-long Since You Went Away\" (1944) \"starring Claudette Colbert, Jennifer Jones, Joseph Cotten, Shirley Temple, Robert Walker, and Monty Woolley, with Hattie McDaniel, Agnes Moorehead, Alla Nazimova, Lionel Barrymore and Keenan Wynn; This star-studded film portrayed an American family whose men have gone off to war - their struggles, fears and losses - and arrived in movie theaters when American women had been without their husbands, sons, and sweethearts for more than three years. It was, moreover, producer Selznick's first screen production in four years, and he both wrote the script and lavished attention on every detail, especially on the ingenue, Jennifer Jones, who was to become his second wife. A commercial as well as critical success, the film earned a million in rentals and received nine Oscar nominations - including Best Picture, virtually the entire cast and all technical credits - but winning only one, for Lee Garmes' cinematography.\n\nCromwell was by now president of the Screen Directors Guild, a tenure which lasted only two years (1944 to 1946) but reflects his stature in the business at the time. His next film, \"The Enchanted Cottage\", from a play by Pinero, is a romantic fantasy, set in England, in which a disfigured war veteran, played by Robert Young, finds love with a shy, plain Dorothy Maguire, helped along by a blind composer, played by Herbert Marshall. This fragile tale was one of Cromwell's favourites, as was his next film\" Anna and the King of Siam\" (1946) a black-and-white, non-musical version of the story of the British governess and her arrogant employer, starring Irene Dunne, with a miscast Rex Harrison as the king, along with Linda Darnell, Lee J. Cobb, and Gale Sondergaard. The film won Oscars for black-and-white cinematography by Arthur Miller and again for Lyle Wheeler's art direction.\n\nCromwell's next picture, \"Dead Reckoning\" (1947), came about because Humphrey Bogart, a leading man after his triumph in \"Casablanca\" (1942), had his choice of director in his contract and expressly asked for him at Columbia Pictures, possibly because it was Cromwell who had given a very young Bogart his first break with a small stage role back in his salad days on Broadway. The film would become the first of Cromwell's \"film noir\" canon. Bogie plays a cynical veteran, who, despite his tough guy exterior, may or may not be being hoodwinked by femme fatale Lizabeth Scott in a baffling plot.\n\nCromwell came back with the harrowing women's prison drama \"Caged\" (1950) starring Eleanor Parker—who, like Bette Davis in 1934, was eager to drop her glamorous image for a meatier role. Its bitter depiction of suicide, sadism—in the form of matron Hope Emerson—head shaving, solitary confinement and brutal introduction into the hopeless underworld of women sucked into prison life again brought Oscar nominations for his cast and story. Finally, in 1951, Cromwell had the idea to resurrect the 1928 play which had made him a director and Edward G. Robinson a star, and in doing so created another noir, \"The Racket\" (1951) starring Robert Mitchum, Lizabeth Scott, and Robert Ryan.\n\nBy this point, the House Un-American Activities Committee had begun its investigation of Hollywood writers, actors and directors Communist affiliations. Cromwell was blacklisted in Hollywood from 1951 to 1958 for his political affiliations, which seemed primarily to consist of heading up a small group of Hollywood Democrats supporting FDR's third term - and having directed a famous film of a famous play - Abe Lincoln in Illinois - written by Roosevelt's favorite speechwriter, Robert E. Sherwood. Cromwell had a theater career which he had returned to intermittently during his film directing years, and he returned to the Broadway stage that year, winning the 1952 Tony for Best Featured Actor in a Play for his performance as John Gray in \"Point of No Return\" (1951) starring Henry Fonda.\n\nIn 1958, Cromwell was removed from the blacklist and made his return to films with a scathing portrait of Hollywood and its stardom in \"The Goddess\" for Columbia. This was the first original screenplay by Paddy Chayefsky whose previous work had been for the stage, as well as the screen debut of Method actress Kim Stanley in the lead. The child star Patti Duke plays a lonely child born in poverty to a mother who doesn't want her; Kim Stanley portrays the still insecure but now alluring girl who shoots to Hollywood stardom only to find its meaningless acclaim and shallow relationships can't heal her inner wounds and in fact render her helpless and drug-dependent in the end.\n\nAs soon as it opened, \"Goddess\" was said to be based on Marilyn Monroe, then still very much alive, whose troubled on-set behavior, depressions, and drug use were beginning to intrude on her staggering fame as a sex symbol. Playwright Arthur Miller, Monroe's then-husband, objected to critics naming Monroe as the real-life model for 'The Goddess' prompting Chayefsky to insist in interviews that, indeed, she was not. Perhaps not coincidentally, Kim Stanley had, in fact, studied at the Actor's Studio when Marilyn Monroe had famously left Hollywood to study there.\n\nThe film was nominated for Original Screenplay, but Cromwell hated what was done in the cutting room, apparently by Chayefsky himself, and walked away from the picture while it was still being cut.\n\nCromwell's film career came to an end with two lackluster films: \"The Scavengers\" (1959), made in the Philippines, and a low-budget drama, \"A Matter of Morals\", made in Sweden in 1961.\n\nCromwell devoted the rest of his career primarily to the theater where he'd begun it. He wrote three plays, all staged in New York; starred opposite Helen Hayes in a revival of \"What Every Woman Knows\", directed the original Broadway company of \"Desk Set\", and eventually found artistic satisfaction in four seasons at the Tyrone Guthrie theater in Minneapolis, founded by the expatriate British director in 1963 when he, like Cromwell, had grown disenchanted with Broadway's increasing commercialism.\n\nCromwell was cast by Robert Altman in the role of Mr. Rose for the film \"3 Women\" (1977) starring Shelley Duvall and Sissy Spacek, and as Bishop Martin in \"A Wedding\" (1978) starring Desi Arnaz, Jr., Carol Burnett, Geraldine Chaplin, Mia Farrow, Vittorio Gassman and Lillian Gish. His wife Ruth Nelson also appeared in both those Altman films.\n\nCromwell married four times. His first wife, stage actress Alice Lindahl died of influenza in 1918. He and stage actress Marie Goff divorced. Cromwell next married actress Kay Johnson in 1928, divorcing in 1946). His final marriage, to actress Ruth Nelson (1946–79) lasted to his death. Cromwell and Johnson had two sons; one is actor James Cromwell.\n\nHe died at age 92 in Santa Barbara, California of a pulmonary embolism.\n\n"}
{"id": "2008069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2008069", "title": "Taxkorgan Tajik Autonomous County", "text": "Taxkorgan Tajik Autonomous County\n\nTaxkorgan Tajik Autonomous County (also known as Taxkorgan County, sometimes spelled Tashkurgan or Tashkorgan) is a county of Kashgar Prefecture in Western Xinjiang, China. The county seat is the town of Tashkurgan.\n\nDuring the Han dynasty, Taxkorgan was known as Puli (); during the Tang dynasty, it was a protectorate of the Parthians, during the Yuan dynasty it was part of the Chaghatai empire. Taxkorgan Tajik Autonomous County was created in 1954 and is part of the district of Kashgar.\n\nOn September 17, 1954, Taxkorgan was made an autonomous region (自治区). On February 1955, it was made an autonomous county.\n\nIn August 2013, the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences announced that they excavated a cluster of Zoroastrian tombs in Taxkorgan.\n\nIn May 2017, the county was hit with a magnitude 5.5 earthquake that killed eight and injured 23.\n\nTaxkorgan County is located in the eastern part of the Pamir Plateau, where the Kunlun, Karakoram, Hindukush and Tian Shan mountains come together, at the borders with Afghanistan (Wakhan Corridor), Tajikistan (Gorno-Badakhshan Province) and Pakistan (Gilgit-Baltistan). The county seat is Taxkorgan Town.\n\nThe territorial expansion of the county is from north to south and from east to west, the total area is about , at an average altitude above . The county includes a significant part of the Trans-Karakoram Tract, disputed by India and Pakistan in the ongoing Kashmir conflict; while Pakistan and China settled the border issue in 1963, India continues to claim it as part of the state of Jammu and Kashmir.\n\nThe Muztagh Ata, at , and the Kongur Tagh, at , are the main peaks in the county, while the two main rivers are the Taxkorgan River and the Tiznap (or Tiznef) River (). By including the Trans-Karakoram Tract, the county also borders several eight-thousanders, including K2, at the second-highest mountain in the world. There are several hot springs and resources of gold, iron, and copper.\n\nTaxkorgan has a cold desert climate (Köppen \"BWk\"), influenced by the high elevation, with long, very cold winters, and warm summers. Monthly daily average temperatures range from in January to in July, while the annual mean is . An average of only of precipitation falls per year\n\n, Mountain Tajiks (China) made up 80.9% of the residents of the county.\n\nAs of 2015, 32,867 of the 40,381 residents of the county were Mountain Tajiks (China), 2,911 were Han Chinese, 2320 were Kyrgyz, and 2,179 were Uyghur.\n\nAs of 1999, 6.28% of the population of Taxkorgan (Tashiku'ergan) County was Han Chinese and 5.08% of the population was Uyghur.\n\nThe total population of Taxkorgan is 27,800, among them 84% Tajiks of Xinjiang who speak the Sarikoli language, 4% Han and 12% other nationalities. (Figures of 1995)\n\nAnimal husbandry is the primary economic mode with agriculture. The well-known Dunbashi fat-tailed sheep () are raised in the county as well as domestic yaks. Agricultural products include highland barley, wheat, and others. Mineral resources include iron, sulfur, and asbestos. In 2011, the county was considered relatively poor. 90% of the residents were engaged in animal husbandry.\n\nThe county is served by Karakoram Highway, which runs through Taxkorgan Town. Taxkorgan is the westernmost town in China. It is also the last/first town for visitors going/coming in/out of China and Pakistan through the Khunjerab Pass. There are public buses plying between Kashgar and Tashkorgan. As of September 2016, China has begun building an elevated road which is expected to be completed in a few years.\n\nIn Taxkorgan Town there is a museum that houses a few local artefacts, a photographic display and, in the basement, two mummies – one of a young woman about 18, and another of a baby about three months old which, however, was not hers. They are labelled as dating from the Bronze Age to the Warring States period (475-221 BCE). The mummies were discovered in the nearby Xiabandi Valley on the old caravan route to Yarkand. The valley has now been flooded for a hydro-electric project.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2008077", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2008077", "title": "Clockmakers' Museum", "text": "Clockmakers' Museum\n\nThe Clockmakers’ Museum in London, England, is believed to be the oldest collection specifically of clocks and watches in the world. The collection belongs to and is administered by the Clockmakers’ Charity, affiliated to the Worshipful Company of Clockmakers, founded in 1631 by Royal Charter. Since 2015 it has been housed in a gallery provided by the Science Museum in South Kensington, having formerly been located in the Guildhall complex in the City of London since 1874, where it first opened to the public. Admission is free.\n\nThe formation of the collection dates back to 1814. The principal goal of the museum is to educate the public about the history of the field of clock and watchmaking (horology), principally in the City of London, and also to promote education and career possibilities in the craft of horology, which as of 2019 was placed on the HCA Red List of Endangered Crafts. The Archive of the Clockmakers is managed on its behalf by the London Metropolitan Archive and is located at Guildhall Library, where the Library collection of printed books is also held and managed.\n\nThe Clockmakers Company first established a library collection in 1814, under the control of a library committee, in which Benjamin Lewis Vulliamy soon emerged as the most prominent figure, remaining so for several decades. Early meetings were held at Vulliamy's premises in Pall Mall, London but in 1817 the Company acquired a mahogany bureau and bookcase from Gillows of Lancaster and London, to house its growing collection, and this was established in an upper room in the Kings Head Tavern in Poultry, London, where the Company had its meetings from 1802 to 1851. \nFrom 1815, the collection had expanded from books to include horological exhibits, among which an early acquisition was a set of pallets from an escapement by Alexander Cumming, bought by Vulliamy at auction, and which are still on display, on the Gillows bookcase.\n\nWith the deaths of BL Vulliamy and George Atkins, Clerk to the Company, in the 1850s, the collection lost its key advocates and supporters, but the fortunes of the museum were reversed with the construction of a new building for Guildhall Library in the early 1870s. At the invitation of the Guildhall authorities, the Clockmakers’ Museum was moved there and opened to the public from 1873. A first catalogue was written by William Henry Overall in 1875.\nIn 1891, The Rev Harry Leonard Nelthropp, a key supporter of the museum, persuaded the Company to acquire one of the most important items in the modern collection, John Harrison’s fifth marine timekeeper, H5. In 1894, Nelthropp donated his entire personal collection of watches, clocks, sundials, seals and related ephemera to the Museum.\nCharles Welch produced a new catalogue in 1902.\n\nIn 1936, the Clockmakers asked the noted engineer and horologist Granville Hugh Baillie to create a new catalogue. Baillie rearranged the museum between mid-1937 and mid-1938. During the Second World War the collection was dismantled and stored off-site under the guidance of Guildhall Librarian James Lungley Douthwaite. Baillie produced a guide in 1939 and updated the catalogue in 1949.\n\nThe museum moved to the new Guildhall Library in 1976, and, in anticipation, Cecil Clutton and George Daniels produced a new catalogue of the clock and watch collection, while John Bromley, a Guildhall Librarian, produced a new catalogue of the Library collection.\nUnder Cedric Jagger as Assistant Curator from 1974, and then as Keeper from 1980, the Museum underwent significant reorganization and improvement at Guildhall. Jagger was succeeded as Keeper by Sir George White in 1988, who served for thirty years through to 2018, in which time the museum and archive collection was again expanded. The major acquisitions in the late twentieth and early twenty-first century were the Hurle-Bath and Hurle-Bradley watch collections, and the purchase of a significant cache of original John Harrison manuscript documents. With a major bequest by noted collector and Past-Master of the Company Reginald Gowan Beloe TD, the funds were available for a major rebuild of the museum, which reopened with a new and enlarged display organized by White at Guildhall Library in 2001. When its lease finally expired at Guildhall, White was instrumental in securing the offer by Ian Blatchford of a newly designed gallery at the Science Museum, which it now occupies under a thirty-year lease. The collection was moved over the course of 2014–15, and the new gallery was opened by the Princess Royal on 22 October 2015. The new gallery is more than twice the size of the earlier gallery at Guildhall. Visitor numbers in the decade prior to 2014 were of the order of 13,000 per annum, but since the move to the Science Museum numbers have expanded significantly, in view of the more than 3 million visitors to the London Science Museum site each year.\n\nThe move of the Clockmakers Museum to the Science Museum formed part of the updating and improvement of the Science Museum second floor galleries, where it adjoins the Mathematics Gallery (designed by Zaha Hadid Architects, opened 2016) and Science City: 1500–1800 (designed by Gitta Gschwendtner, opened 2019).\n\nThough the Museum has moved to South Kensington, the Library and Archive of the Clockmakers remains housed in the City of London, almost entirely at Guildhall Library, and open to the public (though material has to be requested from the store, and is not on open access). The presence of the Clockmakers' Library of printed books, alongside the library of the Antiquarian Horological Society contributes to making Guildhall Library a world-class centre for horological research resources.\n\nPrinted books can be searched for using the Guildhall Library catalogue here.\n\nFor genealogical and biographical research about watch and clockmakers, the Clockmakers' archives (catalogue here) include:\n\nThe collection on display includes rare horological portraits, and numbers some 660 English and European watches, 30 clocks, and 15 marine timekeepers, which are broadly arranged in chronological order, starting in the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries at the east end (with some European objects), but soon moving to the seventeenth century and the emergence of a clock and watch trade in London, initially populated by immigrant craftsmen. The gallery moves forward in time as it progresses westwards through the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries and is completed at the west end by recent and current objects, such as watches made by and other items associated with George Daniels, a former Master of the Company, and an explanation of the wristwatch now being manufactured by Charles Frodsham in Sussex. To support horological education, the museum has an information board at the west end, emphasizing the possibilities for new students and entrants to the field of horology, particularly at West Dean College, Birmingham School of Jewellery, part of Birmingham City University, and the British School of Watchmaking.\n\nThe chronological story set out in the gallery in information panels and labelling has been resolved into a single narrative account, \"The Clockmakers of London\", by the Keeper Emeritus, George White, first published in 2000 and since revised in a new edition with high-resolution images (2018).\nHighlights include:\n\nIn 2019 the museum acquired a large portrait (970mm x 800mm) in a silvered frame, showing a well-dressed gentleman holding a fine and complicated watch, dated perhaps to the 1670s. The watch is very similar to the astronomical watch, c.1660, by Nathaniel Barrow, shown in Case 7 in the museum. \n\nThe Museum was first admitted to the Registration scheme of the Museums, Libraries and Archives Council. When this was amended to Accreditation, the Museum was invited to re-register, and achieved full accredited status in 2007. After suspending accredited status while the Museum closed for its move to South Kensington, it then reapplied once the museum reopened and was granted full Accredited status by Arts Council England in 2018.\n\nOver time a number of Guildhall Librarians have served as Honorary Librarians and Curators to the Clockmakers’ Company.\n\n"}
{"id": "2008087", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2008087", "title": "Friedrich Fromm", "text": "Friedrich Fromm\n\nFriedrich Fromm (8 October 1888 – 12 March 1945) was a German army officer. In World War II, Fromm was Commander in Chief of the Replacement Army (\"Ersatzheer\"), in charge of training and personnel replacement for combat divisions of the German Army, a position he occupied for most of the war. A recipient of the Knight's Cross of the Iron Cross, he was executed for failing to act against the plot of 20 July 1944 to assassinate Hitler.\n\nFromm was born in Charlottenburg. He served as a Prussian Army officer during World War I.\n\nIn 1939, Fromm became Chief of Army Equipment and commander of the Replacement Army.\n\nWhen Operation Barbarossa stalled outside of Moscow in December 1941 and the Russian counter-attack started, Hitler took direct command of the Army and re-organized the armed forces' command structure. The Office of the Chief of Army Armament and the Reserve Army under \"Generaloberst\" Friedrich Fromm was created, subordinate to the commander in chief, army (head of the OKH, Hitler). Fromm had enough power at his disposal to control the German state because his position controlled army procurement and production and commanded all army troops inside Germany.\n\nAt the beginning of 1942, Fromm apparently recommended going over to the defensive for the entire year because of exhausted army stockpiles and the diversion of production, after the initial successes of \"Barbarossa\" in the summer of 1941.\n\nThough Fromm was aware that some of his subordinates, most notably Claus von Stauffenberg, his chief of staff, were planning an assassination attempt against Adolf Hitler, he remained quiet and agreed to have a part in it in exchange for becoming a top official of the new government after the coup. However, Fromm did not have any direct involvement in the conspiracy. When the attempt to proceed with a mutiny on 15 July 1944 failed, he refused to have any further part in it.\n\nOn 20 July, news broke that Hitler and several officers of the Supreme Command of the Armed Forces had become victims of an explosion in the German military's headquarters on the Eastern Front, the Wolfsschanze (Wolf's Lair), near Rastenburg, East Prussia (now Kętrzyn, Poland). Fromm quickly concluded that it was Stauffenberg and the plotters who were behind the explosion, and when he attempted to arrest them, Fromm was quickly overwhelmed and confined to a prison cell in the Bendlerblock, the Berlin headquarters of the Replacement Army, among other branches of the German military, after he had refused to join the plotters in Operation Valkyrie (they had forged Fromm's signature to begin the operation).\n\nAfter the coup failed, Fromm was found by men of the \"Ersatzheer\" and freed. Despite Hitler's direct orders to take the conspirators alive, Fromm held a summary court-martial of the active soldiers at his headquarters who had been identified or suspected of being part of the coup. As presiding official, Fromm condemned the officers to death and ordered their immediate execution by firing squad. As for retired Colonel-General Ludwig Beck, Fromm allowed his request to commit suicide, but since the suicide attempt failed, Fromm ordered him to be shot.\n\nAfter the Bendlerblock executions, Fromm went to Goebbels to claim credit for suppressing the coup, to which Goebbels only said, \"You have been in a damn hurry to get your witnesses below ground.\" On the morning of 22 July 1944, Fromm was arrested by Nazi officials and locked in jail to await trial. It was clear to them that his actions immediately after the coup's collapse were more likely than not to have been an attempt to use his authority, despite Hitler's specific orders to the contrary, to silence the officers directly under his operational command who might have implicated him for at least \"turning a blind eye\" to their activities leading up to Hitler's assassination attempt. Fromm was discharged from the German Army on 14 September 1944. The civilian Fromm was sentenced to death and considered unworthy for military duty by the \"Volksgerichtshof\" on 7 March 1945.\n\nSince the court failed to prove a direct association with the 20 July plotters, he had been charged and convicted for cowardice before the enemy. However, because he had executed the conspirators within reach, he was spared torture and execution by hanging with a thin rope, and sentenced to a military execution.\n\nOn 12 March 1945, Fromm was executed at the Brandenburg-Görden Prison by firing squad as part of the post-conspiracy purge. His last words before the firing squad were reported to be \"I die, because it was ordered. I had always wanted only the best for Germany\".\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2008091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2008091", "title": "North Dakota Supreme Court", "text": "North Dakota Supreme Court\n\nThe North Dakota Supreme Court is the highest court of law in the state of North Dakota. The Court rules on questions of law in appeals from the state's district courts.\n\nEach of the five justices are elected on a no-party ballot for ten year terms, arranged such that one seat is contested every two years. The Chief Justice is elected from the Justices every five years (or upon vacancy) by vote of the Supreme Court justices and the District Court judges.\n\nThe justices of the North Dakota Supreme Court are currently:\n\nThe Supreme Court is empowered to constitute a Court of Appeals consisting of a three-member panel chosen from active and retired District Court judges, retired Supreme Court justices, and lawyers. The Court of Appeals only hears cases specifically assigned to it by the Supreme Court, which is done only infrequently.\n\nUnder Article 6, Section 4 of the North Dakota Constitution, The North Dakota Supreme Court \"shall not declare a legislative enactment unconstitutional unless at least four of the members of the court so decide.\" North Dakota and Nebraska are the only two states that require a supermajority of state Supreme Court justices to rule a legislative provision unconstitutional.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2008092", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2008092", "title": "Joseph Bau", "text": "Joseph Bau\n\nJoseph Bau (; 13 June 1920 – May 24, 2002) was a Polish-Israeli artist, philosopher, inventor, animator, comedian, commercial creator, copy-writer, poet, and survivor of the Płaszów concentration camp.\n\nBau was trained as a graphic artist at the Jan Matejko Academy of Fine Arts in Kraków, Poland. His education was interrupted by World War II and he was transferred to the Płaszów concentration camp in late 1942 from the Kraków Ghetto. Having a talent in gothic lettering, he was employed in the camp for making signs and maps for the Germans. While in Płaszów, Bau created a miniature - the size of his hand – illustrated book with his own poetry. He also forged documents and identity papers for people who managed to escape from the camp.\n\nDuring his imprisonment, Bau fell in love with another inmate, Rebecca Tennenbaum. They were secretly married, despite the prohibition by the Germans, in the women's barracks of Płaszów. This was dramatized in Steven Spielberg's Academy Award-winning movie \"Schindler's List\", where he was played by Rami Heuberger. Bau himself appears in the film's epilogue placing a stone on Oskar Schindler's grave in Jerusalem, along with his wife Rebecca.\n\nAfter Płaszów, Bau was transferred to Gross-Rosen concentration camp and then to Schindler's camp where he stayed until the end of the war, while Rebecca was sent to Auschwitz. After liberation, Bau was reunited with his wife and finished his degree at University of Plastic Arts in Kraków. In 1950, he immigrated to Israel together with his wife and three-year-old daughter, Hadassah, where their other daughter, Clila, was born. He worked as a graphic artist at the Brandwein Institute in Haifa and for the government of Israel. Bau opened his own studio in 1956 in Tel Aviv, which is now a museum managed by daughters Hadassa and Clila. He was well known for creating graphic fonts and drawing titles for Israeli movies in the 1960s and 1970s. He also authored a number of Hebrew books and continued to write poetry.\n\nBau's wife Rebecca died in 1997. Bau died from pneumonia in Tel Aviv on May 24, 2002, at age 81.\n\nThe English version of Joseph Bau's memoir, \"Dear God, Have You Ever Gone Hungry?\" came out in June 1998. It was first published in Hebrew and Polish and was published in several languages, including Chinese.\n\nJoseph Bau also created his own animated films, for which he has been referred to in the press as the \"Israeli Walt Disney\" or as the \"founder of Israel's animation industry\". His paintings and drawings have been listed by Sotheby's as significant contributions to the art of the Holocaust and his works have been shown in galleries in New York, Baltimore, Chicago, and Minneapolis.\n\nJoseph Bau's art is filtered through the prism of his own experiences. It reflects both the brutal reality of life during the war, as well as the joy and humour he observed in later years in Israel. Joseph Bau was nominated for the prestigious Israel Prize in 1998.\n\n"}
{"id": "2008097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2008097", "title": "Andrei Voznesensky", "text": "Andrei Voznesensky\n\nAndrei Andreyevich Voznesensky (, May 12, 1933 – June 1, 2010) was a Soviet and Russian poet and writer who had been referred to by Robert Lowell as \"one of the greatest living poets in any language.\" He was one of the \"Children of the '60s,\" a new wave of iconic Russian intellectuals led by the Khrushchev Thaw.\n\nVoznesensky was considered \"one of the most daring writers of the Soviet era\" but his style often led to regular criticism from his contemporaries and he was once threatened with expulsion by Nikita Khrushchev. He performed poetry readings in front of sold-out stadiums around the world, and was much admired for his skilled delivery. Some of his poetry was translated into English by W. H. Auden. Voznesenky's long-serving mentor and muse was Boris Pasternak, the Nobel Laureate and the author of \"Doctor Zhivago\".\n\nBefore his death, he was both critically and popularly proclaimed \"a living classic\", and \"an icon of Soviet intellectuals\".\n\nVoznesensky was born in Moscow. His father was a professor of engineering, while his mother influenced him early on by reading poetry in his presence. His father worked during World War II. In his early life, Voznesensky was fascinated with painting and architecture, in 1957 graduating from the Moscow Architectural Institute with a degree in engineering. His enthusiasm for poetry, though, proved to be stronger. While still a teenager, he sent his poems to Boris Pasternak; the friendship between the two had a strong influence on the young poet, and he later described this relationship in \"\"I Am Fourteen\"\" – \"From that day on, my life took on a magical meaning and a sense of destiny; his new poetry, telephone conversations, Sunday chats at his house from 2 to 4, walks—years of happiness and childish adoration\". Pasternak, who died in 1960, paid him the ultimate tribute – \"Your entrance into literature was swift and turbulent. I am glad I've lived to see it\".\n\nIn later years Voznesensky became reclusive in nature. He suffered a stroke several years before his death. He is believed to have endured another stroke in early 2010.\n\nOn June 1, 2010, Voznesensky died at the age of 77. The secretary of Russian Union of Writers, Gennady Ivanov, announced that he had died in his home in a peaceful manner. A cause of death went unprovided. Russian President Dmitry Medvedev wrote a letter of condolences. A telegram by Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin said Voznesensky had \"truly become a person of dominant influence\". Other senior Russian officials and cultural entities also offered many tributes.\n\nVoznesensky's wife, Zoya Boguslavskaya, outlived him. He was buried in the Moscow Novodevichi Cemetery on 4 June 2010.\n\nVoznesensky's style was considered different from his contemporaries in the Soviet Union.\n\nHis first poems were published in 1958, and these immediately reflected his unique style. His lyrics are characterized by his tendency \"to measure\" the contemporary person by modern categories and images, by the eccentricity of metaphors, by the complex rhythmical system and sound effects. Vladimir Mayakovsky and Pablo Neruda have been cited among the poets who influenced him most.\n\nThe Goya-inspired \"I Am Goya\" was an early Voznesensky effort, and went on to achieve considerable recognition for its impressions of the fear and horror attached to war, as demonstrated by its Russian metaphors and recurring \"g\" sounds. Another early poem, \"Fire in the Architecture Institute\", was inspired by a 1957 night fire at the Institute of Architecture in Moscow. Voznesensky later said: \"I believe in symbols. I understood that architecture was burned out in me. I became a poet\".\n\nVoznesensky was one of several young Russian intellectuals whom Nikita Khrushchev invited to a reception hosted by the ruling Communist Party in December 1962. Khrushchev scathingly remarked on Voznesensky at the ceremony: \"Just look at this new Pasternak! You want to get a [foreign] passport tomorrow? You want it? And then go away, go to the dogs! Go, go there\". In 1963, his fame blossomed and he became \"as popular as The Beatles\" after Khrushchev publicly and falsely branded him a pervert.\n\nIn the 1960s, during the so-called Thaw, Voznesensky frequently travelled abroad: to France, Germany, Italy, the United States and other countries. The popularity of Voznesensky, Yevgeny Yevtushenko and Bella Akhmadulina was marked by their performances in front of the adoring crowds numbering in the thousands at stadiums, in concert halls and universities. In doing so, he served as \"a sort of unofficial Kremlin cultural envoy\", according to \"The New York Times\". His poetry reading skills were profound. He competed with Laurence Olivier and Paul Scofield at one show in London. He criticised the 1968 invasion of Czechoslovakia. While in the United States, he met Allen Ginsberg, Arthur Miller, and Marilyn Monroe.\n\nVoznesensky's friendship with many contemporary writers, artists and other intellectuals is reflected in his poetry and essays. He is known to wider audiences for the superhit \"Million of Scarlet Roses\" that he penned for Alla Pugacheva in 1984 and for the hugely successful rock opera \"Juno and Avos\" (1979), based on the life and death of Nikolay Rezanov.\n\nHis creations have been turned into works of theatre. One collection of his poems, \"Antimiry\" (\"Anti-worlds\") served as the basis for a famous performance at the Taganka Theater in 1965. \"Save your Faces\" was performed at the same venue. \"Juno and Avos\" was performed at the Lenin's Komsomol Theater (now Lenkom). Others on foreign territory.\n\n\nIn 1978 Voznesensky was awarded the USSR State Prize. He is an honorable member of ten academies, including the Russian academy of learning (1993), the American Academy of Arts and Letters, Parisian Académie Goncourt and others.\n\nOn Tuesday, 23 December 2008, Russian President Dmitry Medvedev bestowed a state award upon Voznesensky at the Kremlin.\n\nA minor planet 3723 Voznesenskij, discovered by Soviet astronomer Nikolai Stepanovich Chernykh in 1976, is named after him.\n\nEnglish critic John Bayley described his feelings after hearing a Voznesensky recitation of \"I Am Goya\": \n\n"}
{"id": "2008100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2008100", "title": "Freeverse Inc.", "text": "Freeverse Inc.\n\nFreeverse Inc. (originally Freeverse Software) was a developer of computer and video game and desktop software based in New York City which was acquired by Ngmoco in 2010. Ngmoco was itself acquired later that year, and shut down in 2016.\n\nFreeverse was founded as a shareware company in 1994 by Ian Lynch Smith. Freeverse's first product, a version of \"Hearts Deluxe\" for the Mac, used Game artificial intelligence based on Ian's studies in Cognitive Science (the subject for which he received his concentration from Vassar College). On February 22, 2010, it was announced that Freeverse had been acquired by ngmoco.\n\nOn October 12, 2010, Japanese-based DeNA announced its acquisition of ngmoco for $400,000,000. Ngmoco LLC became the regional headquarters for all Western subsidiaries of DeNA, including studios in Vancouver, Santiago de Chile, Stockholm and Amsterdam.\n\nHowever, on October 18, 2016, DeNA announced the closure of all Western subsidiaries including ngmoco.\n\n\n\n\nCurrently, Freeverse is developing a version of \"Airburst\" for the Xbox 360 video game console from Microsoft.\n\nFreeverse has delivered \"TotemBall\" which is a Xbox Live Arcade musical action game with Strange Flavour and published by Microsoft Game Studios. It takes advantage of the Xbox Live Vision camera with the camera tracking the players hand movements. It was released on October 4, 2006. On August 1, 2007 \"Marathon: Durandal\" and \"Spyglass Board Games\" were released to the Xbox Live Arcade.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2008106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2008106", "title": "Hoveyzeh", "text": "Hoveyzeh\n\nHoveyzeh (, also Romanized as Havizeh, Hawiza, Hawīzeh, Hovayze, and Hovayzeh; also known as Hūzgān or Khūzgān) is a city and capital of Hoveyzeh County, Khuzestan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 14,422, in 2,749 families.\n\nHoveyzeh is located near the border with Iraq. Iranian Arabs make up the majority of its population. The Hoveizeh region is rich in oil and is an agricultural area. The city sustained heavy casualties and ubiquitous damage during the Iran–Iraq War. \n\nHoveyzeh means \"granny\" (grandmother)\n"}
{"id": "2008112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2008112", "title": "Andover High School", "text": "Andover High School\n\nAndover High School is the name of several high schools, among them:\n\n"}
{"id": "2008119", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2008119", "title": "The Heathertones", "text": "The Heathertones\n\nThe Heathertones vocal quartet took form in 1946 with members Nancy Swain Overton, her sister Jean Swain, Bix Brent and Pauli Skindlov. Jean and Bix were both graduates of Smith College, while Nancy and Pauli had completed their studies at Juilliard. Pauli was replaced by Ellie Decker whose lead spot was eventually filled by Marianne McCormick for six of the seven years the group was together.\n\nThey wrote all their own vocal arrangements and band lead sheets. Among their many recordings were those with Benny Goodman, Buddy Greco and Tommy Dorsey. They appeared regularly on network TV with Frank Sinatra, Bert Parks and others, always involved with the skits, live commercials, etc. typical of TV shows of that era. The group disbanded in 1953.\n\nThree recordings they made on October 27, 1949 with Buddy Greco and the Benny Goodman orchestra are available on a cd recording \"Benny Goodman: 1949-1951\". The songs are \"Brother Bill\", \"Spin a Record\" and \"You're Always There\".\n\nInformation based on interviews with Nancy Overton.\n"}
{"id": "2008120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2008120", "title": "GEORGE (computer)", "text": "GEORGE (computer)\n\nGEORGE was an early computer built in 1957 by Argonne National Laboratory, was based on the IAS architecture developed by John von Neumann. (The name \"GEORGE\" is apparently not an acronym. It may have been derived from the sentence, \"Let George do it,\" which was said when a person didn't want to do something himself). As with almost all computers of its era, it was a one of a kind machine that could not exchange programs with mother computers (even other IAS machines).\n"}
{"id": "2008124", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2008124", "title": "Carpet bag", "text": "Carpet bag\n\nA carpet bag is a top-opening traveling bag made of carpet, commonly from an oriental rug. It was a popular form of luggage in the United States and Europe in the 19th century, featuring simple handles and only an upper frame, which served as its closure. Some small modern versions are used as handbags or purses.\n\nThe carpet bag was invented as a type of inexpensive personal baggage light enough for a passenger to carry, like a duffel bag, as opposed to a large rigid wooden or metal trunk, which required the assistance of porters. In 1886, the \"Scientific American\" described it as old-fashioned and reliable, \"still unsurpassed by any, where rough wear is the principal thing to be studied. Such a bag, if constructed of good Brussels carpeting and unquestionable workmanship, will last a lifetime, provided always that a substantial frame is used.\" Its use implied self-sufficiency: in Jules Verne's 1873 novel \"Around the World in Eighty Days\", Phileas Fogg and Passepartout bring only a carpet bag as luggage, which holds a few items of clothing and a great deal of cash.\n\nCarpet bags used to be made of Oriental rugs or the Brussels carpet referred to above, with \"a heavy pile formed by uncut loops of wool on a linen warp\". Carpet was the chosen material because \"remainder\" pieces were easily bought for its manufacture. \n\nSome carpet bags could also serve as a \"railway rug\", a common item in the 19th century for warmth in drafty, unheated rail-cars. The rug could either be opened as a blanket, or latched up on the sides as a traveling bag. From Robert Louis Stevenson's \"\" (1879): \"... my railway-rug, which, being also in the form of a bag, made me a double castle for cold nights.\"\n\nCarpetbags made something of a brief resurgence in the 1960s with the emergence of the Hippie generation, salvaged from old family attics and second-hand stores. This gave rise to limited new manufacture as a trendy fashion accessory.\n\nThe carpetbaggers of the Reconstruction Era following the American Civil War—Northerners who moved to the South for economic or political opportunity—were given their name from often carrying only this type of luggage, implying they came with little while hoping to acquire lots.\n\nThe fictional nanny Mary Poppins arrived clutching her magical carpetbag.\n\nThe Magic Bag of Tricks in the Felix the Cat cartoons resembles a carpetbag.\n\nChapter Two of Herman Melville's Moby Dick is called The Carpet-Bag.\n"}
{"id": "2008127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2008127", "title": "Mount &amp; Blade", "text": "Mount &amp; Blade\n\nMount & Blade is a 2008 medieval strategy action role-playing game for Microsoft Windows, developed by the Turkish company TaleWorlds, and published by the Swedish company Paradox Interactive. In the game, the player controls a customized character to battle, trade, negotiate, and ultimately become the ruler of the fictional land of Calradia.\n\n\"Mount & Blade\" initially received a mixed critical reception overall. Reviewers praised the game for its innovative combat mechanics, complex character skill system, and large modding community, but also criticized it for its repetitive quests, dialogues, and locations, as well as low graphics quality. A standalone expansion, \"\", was released in March 2010, and a spin-off expansion, \"\", was released in May 2011. A proper sequel, \",\" was released in early access on March 30th, 2020.\n\n\"Mount & Blade\" is a single-player, action-oriented role-playing game without any fantasy elements, which takes place in a medieval land named Calradia. The game features a sandbox gameplay style, in which there is no storyline present. The player is able to join one of the five battling factions, fight as a mercenary, assume the role of an outlaw, or remain neutral.\n\nAt the start of the game, the player is offered a set of options to customize the character. The player answers a series of multiple-choice questions about the character's past and sex, which generate the character's initial attributes. Then the player has the option to sculpt their character's facial features.\n\nTraveling to other locations, or interacting with other parties is done by point and clicking the desired destination. Upon encountering enemy parties, the player can try to avoid a conflict, or can engage in a battle with them. In \"Mount & Blade\" each battle is attributed a renown value, according to the number and power of the members of each party. The player gains the renown if he or she wins the battle. With increased renown, the player achieves higher standing in the game and may be offered vassalage by the leaders of one of the five factions. By becoming a vassal, the player is given control over a certain fief, which he or she can manage and collect taxes from. By solving quests or defeating opponents the player is awarded experience points, which can be used to improve attributes, skills, and weapon proficiencies to further develop the character. Weapon proficiencies can also be improved over time by inflicting damage on other opponents.\n\nThere are four main areas where battles take place: on the open map when two or more hostile parties meet, in tournaments organized in town arenas, in siege combat where the player is either defending or attacking a fortification, or in settlements after a triggering event (e.g. a village is infested by bandits, guards catch the player sneaking into a hostile settlement, the player is ambushed, villagers rebel while the player is collecting taxes, or the player plunders a village). The number of soldiers each party can hold is limited by the \"leadership\" skill and the renown of the leader. Participants in a battle can be either mounted or on foot. The player has to indicate the direction in which he or she wants to swing by moving the mouse accordingly, unless they have changed the options so that the game automatically chooses it for them. Aiming with a ranged weapon is also done by using the mouse.\n\nDamage is dealt depending on multiple factors. Aside from each weapon's quality, its effectiveness is also influenced by the character's skill with that type of weapon, and the speed of the player relative to the target: for example, a javelin thrown while running or riding a horse will be potentially more damaging than a javelin thrown while standing still. Further, weapons have certain ranges where they are minimally and maximally effective, which gives the different weapon types different playing styles. A spear, for instance, will do minimal damage when used on an enemy very close to the player, where a hammer could cause maximum damage.\n\n\"Mount & Blade\" has a very minimal plot, most of which is up to the player. Although certain things are constant, such as towns and kings, the player's own story is chosen at character creation, where the player can be, for example, a child of an impoverished noble or a street urchin. This has little impact besides starting skills and dialogue (e.g. a lord may treat the player better if they are a nobleman rather than a steppe child.) Player choices also make an impact on dialogue; if the player spends time raiding caravans, a lord may treat them as criminals, as opposed to a player who spends time doing tasks for a king or trading items. There is no overarching storyline, however, so the player is left to their own devices.\n\nThe game originated as an independent project of Armağan Yavuz, founder of TaleWorlds, and his wife, İpek Yavuz. According to Armağan Yavuz, the game's inspirations include \"Sid Meier's Pirates!\", \"\", \"\", and older Koei strategy video games such as \"Genghis Khan\", as well as historical fiction novels, particularly those by Bernard Cornwell.\n\nPrior to its retail release, alpha versions of the game were published on the developer's website beginning in 2004. The game was made available on Steam on September 30, 2008.\n\nParadox Interactive lost the \"Mount & Blade\" license on January 31, 2014.\n\n\"Mount & Blade\" received \"mixed or average\" reviews according to the review aggregation website Metacritic. Reviewers acknowledged the game's potential, but also said it suffers from poor production values. GameSpot concluded that the game \"feels more underdeveloped than it does flat-out bad\", and \"Eurogamer\" made a similar review, saying that \"Mount & Blade\" has \"foundations [...] for something really quite special, but in its current state the game is nowhere close to delivering on its promises\". The game also received more positive reviews, IGN saying that it may be \"the best game about medieval life ever made\", while \"TechAdvisor\" called it \"the first, great medieval role-playing game\".\n\nCombat has been one of the game's most widely appreciated elements. Critics like \"Eurogamer\", GameSpot, IGN and \"TechAdvisor\" praised it, describing it as one of the best implementations of medieval combat ever created. Not all reviewers agreed on the quality of the combat system; \"PC Zone\" criticized it, claiming that melee combat feels random in its effectiveness on both foot and horseback. The complexity and thoroughness of the character skill system was also well received.\n\n\"Mount & Blade\" has received negative criticism for its repetitive quests, dialogues, and locations, as well as poor graphics quality. \"Eurogamer\" said the graphics engine \"does little to entice you deep enough\", and GameSpot said that conversations with NPCs feel more like \"consulting a travel guidebook for Calradia than actually speaking to a human being\".\n\nThe fandom has received positive attention from both developers and critics. During an interview, TaleWorlds declared itself to be \"most proud\" of its community, considering that \"\"Mount & Blade\" has arguably some of the best mods developed for a computer game\". Reviewers such as \"GamePro\" and Game Industry News also admired the number of mods made available for the beta versions even before the game's official retail release.\n\nParadox produced a standalone expansion for the game, titled \"\", which includes multiplayer support with up to 250 players as well as improved diplomacy, graphics and artificial intelligence. \"Warband\" also has an updated map and a sixth faction. The expansion was set to be released in Q3 2009, but was delayed until March 2010. Closed beta testing began on August 2009, and became open in February 2010, before the sequel's release on March 30, 2010.\n\nParadox released a spin-off titled \"\", based on the historical novel \"With Fire and Sword\" (Polish: \"Ogniem i Mieczem\") by Henryk Sienkiewicz, developed by Snowberry Connection, Sich Studio, and TaleWorlds Entertainment. The game is set in Eastern Europe, and includes the playable factions Poland–Lithuania, Cossack Hetmanate, Russia, Sweden and the Crimean Khanate. The game was released on May 4, 2011.\n\nA sequel, \"Mount & Blade II: Bannerlord\", was announced in September 2012. In an interview with \"PC Gamer\", a TaleWorlds producer confirmed that there would be a prequel to the original game \"Mount & Blade\". A Turkish documentary featured footage of what would be seen as early alpha footage of the upgraded engine. Over time, Taleworlds had released Work in Progress screenshots of \"Bannerlord\". The game was released on March 30, 2020.\n\n"}
{"id": "2008130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2008130", "title": "Flinders Bay", "text": "Flinders Bay\n\nFlinders Bay is a bay and locality that is immediately south of the townsite of Augusta, and close to the mouth of the Blackwood River.\n\nThe locality and bay lies to the north east of Cape Leeuwin which is the most south-westerly mainland point of the Australian Continent, in the state of Western Australia.\nOn Matthew Flinders Terra Australis Sheet 1 1801–1803 the area was originally known as \"Dangerous Bight\". The bay runs from Point Matthew East North East of Cape Leeuwin to Ledge Point some east.\nIt was named by either James Stirling or Septimus Roe in 1829 or 1830.\nMatthew Flinders was first in the Bay on 7 December 1801.\n\nThe name of the locality of Flinders Bay is tied to the small settlement that had been a whaling and fishing location, as well as the terminus of the Busselton to Flinders Bay Branch Railway railway line (1920s, closed 1957).\n\nThe name is also tied to the Flinders Bay jetties (also known as the Barrack Point Jetties). \n\nThe settlement was in the earlier days considered to be separate from Augusta but now is more or less the southern portion of the larger community.\n\nThe need for safe and efficient transfer of whale watchers and a safe mooring location in the Bay for fishermen has seen a proposal for a marina in 2004 which had included plans for the marina close to the old settlement of Flinders Bay. The 2005 revised proposal has moved to a bay further around towards Cape Leeuwin. The Flat Rock site is complete and has been called \"Augusta Boat Harbour\" by the department of Transport.\n\nThe landing area adjacent to the old railway station yard was originally known as \"The Whaling\". It was the area where boats would work from in the nineteenth and early twentieth century. Up until the early 1970s sheds and ramps were still present. In the late 20th century the area had whale rescue operations occurring very close to the area. Also businesses involved in whale watching have more recently used the bay.\n\nThe St Alouarn Islands stretch out south of Point Matthew (on the road to Cape Leeuwin), and are effective barriers along with reefs for the outer reaches of the bay to the south.\n\nLike the majority of the southwestern coastal regions of Western Australia, Flinders Bay experiences a cool-summer Mediterranean climate with cool to warm summers and mild, wet winters.\n\nAfter trials in 2012, a world-first commercial \"sea ranch\" was set up in 2016, to raise abalone. The ranch is based on an artificial reef made up of 5000 () separate concrete units called \"abitats\" (abalone habitats). The abitats can host 400 abalone each. The reef is seeded with young abalone from an onshore hatchery.\n\nThe abalone feed on seaweed that has grown naturally on the habitats. The ecosystem enrichment of the bay also results in growing numbers of dhufish, pink snapper, wrasse, samson fish and other species.\nThe company emphasises the similarity to wild abalone and the difference from shore based aquaculture. \"We're not aquaculture, we're ranching, because once they're in the water they look after themselves.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2008140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2008140", "title": "Shiny cowbird", "text": "Shiny cowbird\n\nThe shiny cowbird (\"Molothrus bonariensis\") is a passerine bird in the New World family Icteridae. It breeds in most of South America except for dense forests and areas of high altitude such as mountains. Since 1900 the shiny cowbirds' range has shifted northward, and it was recorded in the Caribbean islands as well as the United States, where it is found breeding in southern Florida. It is a bird associated with open habitats, including disturbed land from agriculture and deforestation.\n\nAdults are sexually dimorphic. Males are all black with a purple-blue iridescence. The female is smaller, with dull brown plumage that is sometimes paler on the underparts. Females of the species can be distinguished from the female brown-headed cowbird by their longer, finer bills and flatter heads. The shiny cowbird's diet consists mainly of insects and seeds, and they have been recorded foraging for grains in cattle troughs.\n\nLike most other cowbirds, it is an obligate brood parasite, laying its eggs in the nests of many other bird species such as the rufous-collared sparrow. Different host species show different responses to their nests being parasitised, with behaviours ranging from accepting and caring for the cowbird eggs, to rejecting the eggs from the nest. As the shiny cowbird is an effective generalist brood parasite, it can be considered the South American counterpart to the brown-headed cowbird.\n\nThe shiny cowbird is a passerine in the family Icteridae, which includes the blackbirds. The species was first described in 1789 by Johann Friedrich Gmelin. It has seven described subspecies due to geographic variation:\n\n\nPhysical appearance of the shiny cowbird adult depends on subspecies. Sizes range from 31-40 grams in mass and 18 cm in length (\"M. b. minimus)\", to 55-65 grams in mass and 22 cm in length \"(M. b. cabanisii).\"\n\nBasic adult plumage for \"M. b. bonariensis\" is black with purple-blue iridescence for males, and dusty gray-brown for females. \"M. b. cabanisii\" males have plumage similar to \"M. b. bonariensis,\" while females are paler in colouration. \"M. b. aequatorialis\" males have violet iridescence and females are dark in colour. \"M. b. occidentalis\" males have rich purple iridescence, and females are distinct compared to the other subspecies as they have a pale upper body and very pale, streaked underparts. \"M. b. venezuelensis\" males look similar to \"M. b. occidentalis\", and females dark in colour\".\" \"M. b. minimus\" males look similar to \"M. b. bonariensis\", and females have a darker head than \"M. b. bonariensis\" and have streaked scapulars and inter-scapulars. \"M. b. riparius\" males are similar to \"M. b. bonariensis\", and the females have darker upper bodies and paler underparts than \"M. b. bonariensis.\"Upon hatching, shiny cowbirds are altricial and are confined to their nests. Hatchlings are covered in a gray down. Juvenile males are dark on their upper body, with dull dray underparts streaked with dark brown or black, and a buff abdomen. Females are a buff brown colour on top, with light buff, brown, or gray underparts that may or may not be streaked with brown.\n\nEggs are ovate in shape, and can exist as either a spotted morph, or an unspotted \"immaculate\" morph. They are usually white in colour, though they sometimes take on a light blue, light gray, or buff hue.\n\nThe shiny cowbird is a year-round resident across most of South America, where it lives in open areas such as open forests and cultivated land. Within the last century, the range of the species has shifted northward, and birds have been recorded in the West Indies and southern Florida. This shift in range is due to increased human conversion of forests into open cultivated and agricultural land, habitats which are preferred by the shiny cowbird. This range shift into new regions allows the cowbird to exploit new naive host species.\n\nDeforestation and conversion of forested land to open agricultural fields and pastures has led to a northward shift in the range of the shiny cowbird, as this species prefers open habitats. These deforested areas may be home to host species that were previously not parasitized by cowbirds. These naive hosts likely do not have defenses against parasitism, and may be more negatively affected by the presence of the cowbirds. The species spread from South America to mainland Puerto Rico in 1955, and subsequently reached the Dominican Republic in 1973 and Cuba in 1982. Since 1985, the shiny cowbird has been recorded in Florida.\n\nShiny cowbirds do not form monogamous pairs. They have a promiscuous mating system where individuals will copulate with many different mates.\n\nDuring courtship, male shiny cowbirds perform a song while circling a female, and when the song is finished they bow to their prospective mate. This bow is a display used in both mating rituals and as a show of aggression toward other males. It consists of the male ruffling his feathers while arching his wings and lowering his tail. The display is performed either on the ground, in a tree, or while flying. Following a successful mating display, the pair will copulate once.\n\nThe shiny cowbird is an obligate brood parasite, meaning that adults will lay their eggs in the nests of other species and their offspring rely entirely on their hosts for parental care. They are generalists, and have about 250 different host species. As a host generalist, their young are non-mimetic, meaning they do not attempt to replicate the behaviours of host chicks like a host specialist species might. In regions of South America including Argentina, Uruguay, Brazil, and Venezuela, the main host species of the shiny cowbird is the rufous-collared sparrow.\n\nFemale shiny cowbirds do not build nests, as they rely on their hosts to care for their offspring, but they will preferentially select hosts that build enclosed nests such as nests built in cavities. They will look for host nests both actively, and by silently watching for hosts. When a host nest is found, they will flush the host away from the nest by noisily flying around the area. An individual shiny cowbird may lay its eggs across many different nests.\n\nResponses to parasitic eggs and chicks in the nest varies among hosts. Sometimes even within a host species, the response to parasitism is context-dependent. For example, when grayish baywings were acting as host parents to shiny cowbird young, cowbirds would only continue to receive parental care after they fledged if they had been raised alone in the nest without any baywing nest mates. Yellow warblers have been recorded to reject shiny cowbird eggs around 40% of the time, either by deserting their nest or building a new nest on top of the parasitised one. In hosts such as the creamy-bellied thrush, where parasitism by shiny cowbirds does not have a large negative effect on the survival of their own chicks, the hosts do not exhibit egg-ejection behaviour. This acceptance of parasitic eggs may also be due to the fact that the eggs are similar in appearance, and the host would risk harming its own eggs in the process.\n\nBrood parasitism from shiny cowbirds will have a negative effect on the reproductive success of their hosts through a variety of factors employed by the different life stages of the cowbird. Adult females can negatively affect the host by pecking and killing host eggs and removing the host eggs from the nest. Shiny cowbird eggs have a short incubation period of about 10-11 days. Many of the parasite's hosts have eggs that incubate for longer. One of their main hosts across much of South America, the rufous-collared sparrow, has an incubation period of 12-13 days. The shiny cowbird will sometimes also lay an egg before the host species begins laying. Laying their eggs before their host, as well as having a shorter incubation period, allows for the hatching of the parasitic chick to occur before the host eggs hatch. When the cowbirds hatch before the sparrows in the nest, sparrows usually do not gain much weight and die within about three days. In one study, nestling mortality almost doubled when comparing a non-parasitised nest to one that had been parasitised by a shiny cowbird.\n\nShiny cowbirds can have a large negative effect on critically endangered species, such as the pale-headed brush finch. Human modification of their restricted geographic range led to habitat loss in the case of the finches, but also introduced more cowbirds into the now open area. Parasitism by shiny cowbirds is thought to be an important factor in the population decline of the pale-headed brush finch.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2008149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2008149", "title": "Muhammad ibn Falah", "text": "Muhammad ibn Falah\n\nMuhammad ibn Falah (1400 in Wasit, Iraq – 1461 in Hoveizeh, Iran) was an Iraqi-born theologian who founded the \"Musha'sha'iya\", a Shi'a sect. He received his theological education in the city of al-Hillah, and there came to believe himself to be the earthly representative of Imam Ali and the Mahdi. He was later denounced as a heretic and excommunicated by his teacher.\n\nHis spiritual teachings were codified in a text entitled the \"Kalam al-Mahdi\" (\"The Kalam of the Mahdi\"), which was written in the style of the Qur'an. He was believed to have been descended from the seventh Shi'a Imam, Musa al-Kazim. Upon his death, his son, Ali ibn Muhammad Musha'sha'iya, took over as leader of the sect, which began a dynastic line of succession.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2008150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2008150", "title": "Baktun", "text": "Baktun\n\nA baktun (properly bʼakʼtun ) is 20 \"katun\" cycles of the ancient Maya Long Count Calendar. It contains 144,000 days, equal to 394.26 tropical years. The Classic period of Maya civilization occurred during the 8th and 9th baktuns of the current calendrical cycle. The current baktun started on 13.0.0.0.0 — December 21, 2012 using the GMT correlation.\n\nArchaeologist J. Eric S. Thompson stated that it is erroneous to say that a Long Count date of, for example, 9.15.10.0.0 is in the “9th baktun”, analogous to describing the year 209 AD as in the “2nd century AD”. Even so, the practice is so well established among Maya epigraphers and other students of the Maya, that to change it would cause more harm than its perpetuation. The current practice of referring to the current baktun as ”baktun 13” or “thirteenth baktun” may stand, even though it is properly the fourteenth baktun. Alternatively, the first baktun could instead be referred to as the zeroeth to avoid this ambiguity.\n\nToday, , in the Long Count is (based on the GMT correlation).\n\n"}
{"id": "2008155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2008155", "title": "Wyoming Valley", "text": "Wyoming Valley\n\nThe Wyoming Valley is a historic industrialized region of Northeastern Pennsylvania, once famous for fueling the industrial revolution in the United States with its many anthracite coal mines. As a metropolitan area, it is known as the Scranton/Wilkes-Barre metropolitan area, after its principal cities, Scranton and Wilkes-Barre, and is the 101st-largest metropolitan area in the United States and the 4th largest in Pennsylvania. It makes up its own unique physiographic province, the Anthracite Valley, in the geology of Pennsylvania. Greater Pittston makes up the center of the valley. Scranton is the most populated city in the metropolitan area with a population of 77,114. The city of Scranton has grown in population after the 2015 mid term census while Wilkes-Barre has declined in population. Wilkes-Barre is still the second most populated city in the metropolitan area and Hazleton is third. The airports for this area are Wilkes-Barre/Scranton International Airport (Avoca) and the Wilkes-Barre Wyoming Valley Airport (Forty Fort).\n\nThe valley is a crescent-shaped depression, a part of the ridge-and-valley or folded Appalachians. The Susquehanna River occupies the southern part of the valley, which is notable for its deposits of anthracite. These have been extensively mined. Deep mining of anthracite has declined throughout the greater Coal Region, however, due to the greater economics of strip mining. Parts of the local mines had already shut down because some coal beds were on fire and had to be sealed; but the exodus of mining companies came quickly following the legal and political repercussions of the 1959 Knox Mine Disaster—when the roof of the Knox Coal Company's mine under the river collapsed. The Pocono Mountains, a ridgeline away, are often visible from higher elevations to the east and to the southeast of the Wyoming Valley.\n\nThe name Wyoming derives from the Lenape Munsee name \"xwé:wamənk\", meaning \"at the big river flat.\"\n\nAccording to the Jesuit \"Relation\" of 1635, the Wyoming Valley was inhabited by the Scahentoarrhonon people, an Iroquoian-speaking group; it was then known as the Scahentowanen Valley. By 1744, it was inhabited by Lenape, Mahican, Shawnee and others who had been pushed out of eastern areas by the Iroquois Confederacy. From the 1740s to the 1760s, the valley was the site of Moravian mission work among the Native Americans living there. They envisioned a settlement for Christian Indians. But the violence of the French and Indian War, the North American front of the Seven Years' War, drove these settlers away with David Zeisberger, the Moravian \"Apostle to the Indians.\"\n\nPennsylvania's and Connecticut's conflicting claims to the territory — King Charles II of England had granted the land to the colony of Connecticut in 1662, and also to William Penn in 1681 — led to military skirmishes known as the Pennamite Wars. After Yankee settlers from Connecticut founded the town of Wilkes-Barre in 1769, armed bands of Pennsylvanians (Pennamites) tried without success to expel them in 1769-70, and again in 1775.\n\nThe Yankee-Pennamite Wars were eventually settled in the 1780s. The disputed land was granted to Pennsylvania. The Wyoming Valley became part of Northumberland County. However, Connecticut settlers wanted to create a new state in Northeastern Pennsylvania. Massachusetts businessman Timothy Pickering was sent to the region to politically examine the situation. This led to the Pennsylvania Assembly passing a resolution which created Luzerne County. This ended the idea of creating a new state. On September 25, 1786, Luzerne County was formed from part of Northumberland County. It was named after Chevalier de la Luzerne, a French soldier and diplomat during the 18th century. When it was founded, Luzerne County occupied a large portion of Northeastern Pennsylvania. From 1810 to 1878, it was divided into several smaller counties. The counties of Bradford, Lackawanna, Susquehanna, and Wyoming were all formed from parts of Luzerne County.\n\nDuring the American Revolutionary War, the Battle of Wyoming took place in the valley on July 3, 1778, in which more than 300 Revolutionaries died at the hands of Loyalists and their Iroquois allies. The incident was depicted by the Scottish poet Thomas Campbell in his 1809 poem \"Gertrude of Wyoming\". At the time, rebel colonists widely believed that Joseph Brant, a Mohawk chief, had led the Iroquois forces; in the poem, Brant is described as the \"Monster Brant\" because of the atrocities committed. Later colonists determined that Brant had not been present at this conflict. The popularity of the poem may have led to the state of Wyoming later being named after the valley.\nThe Scranton–Wilkes-Barre–Hazleton, PA Metropolitan Statistical Area covers Lackawanna, Luzerne, and Wyoming counties. It had a combined population of 558,166 in 2015. The counties adjacent to the \"Wyoming Valley\" include Monroe County (Southeast), Susquehanna County (Northeast), Wayne County (East), Columbia County (West), Bradford County (Northwest), Carbon County (South), Sullivan County (West) and Schuylkill County (Southeast). The area also has the highest percentage of non-Hispanic whites of any U.S. metropolitan area with a population over 500,000, with 96.2% of the population stating their race as white alone and not claiming Hispanic ethnicity.\n\nWhen metropolitan areas were first defined in 1950, Scranton and Wilkes-Barre were in separate metropolitan areas. Lackawanna County was defined as the Scranton Standard Metropolitan Area, while Luzerne County was defined as the Wilkes-Barre–Hazleton Standard Metropolitan Area. The two metropolitan areas were merged after the 1970 census as the Northeast Pennsylvania Standard Metropolitan Statistical Area, with Monroe County added as a component. It was renamed the Scranton/Wilkes-Barre Metropolitan Statistical Area after the 1980 census, and Columbia and Wyoming counties were added. Hazleton was added as a primary city in the 1990 census, while Monroe County lost its metropolitan status. After the 2000 census, Columbia County lost metropolitan status, while Hazleton was removed as a primary city. Scranton is the largest city in Lackawanna County as well as the entire metropolitan area by a large margin, nearly doubling the population of the second largest city in the metropolitan area, Wilkes-Barre.\n\nThe physical Wyoming Valley — also referred to as the \"Anthracite Valley Section\" — is different from the Wyoming Valley Metropolitan Statistical Area. The physical Wyoming Valley is a canoe-shaped valley which extends from the counties of Susquehanna and Wayne (in the north) to Columbia County (in the south). It includes the cities of Carbondale, Scranton, Pittston, Wilkes-Barre, and Nanticoke. Even though Wyoming County is part of the Wyoming Valley Metropolitan Statistical Area, it is not part of the physical valley.\nScranton is the cultural center of the Wyoming Valley, being the largest city by population in the metropolitan area.\nThe Wyoming Valley also has professional sports teams; they include the Scranton/Wilkes-Barre RailRiders (Baseball AAA), the Wilkes-Barre/Scranton Penguins (Hockey AHL), and the Scranton/Wilkes-Barre Steamers (Basketball Premier Basketball League). The Wilkes-Barre/Scranton Pioneers were a minor league arena football team in Wilkes-Barre (from 2001 to 2009).\n\nLocal attractions include the Mohegan Sun Arena at Casey Plaza in Wilkes-Barre, the Pocono Raceway in Long Pond, PNC Field in Moosic, Mohegan Sun at Pocono Downs in Plains, the Toyota Pavilion in Scranton, the Wyoming Valley Mall in Wilkes-Barre, the Shoppes at Montage in Moosic, the Steamtown Mall in Scranton, the Viewmont Mall in Scranton/Dickson City, Pennsylvania, and the Montage Mountain Waterpark/Ski Resort in Scranton. Other historic attractions include Eckley Miners' Village and the Steamtown National Historic Site.\n\nThe following printed resources are in the collection of the Connecticut State Library (CSL):\n\n"}
{"id": "2008158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2008158", "title": "Frank Nicotero", "text": "Frank Nicotero\n\nFrank Joseph Nicotero (born March 4, 1969 in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania) is an American comedian widely known as the host of the syndicated comedy game show \"Street Smarts\".\n\nFrank Nicotero got his start in Pittsburgh doing stand up, quickly finding success when he landed his first stand-up gig at Pittsburgh's famed Funny Bone comedy club in 1988. Shortly afterward, he toured college circuits, appearing with other comedians including Drew Carey, Adam Sandler, and Rob Schneider—and appearing at more than 300 colleges and clubs throughout the country. He has been a regular for over 10 years at The World Famous Laugh Factory on the Sunset Strip. He is also a regular at The Icehouse in Pasadena and The Comedy Magic Club in Hermosa Beach, California.\n\nIn 1996, Nicotero appeared as a contestant on Wink Martindale's \"Debt\", winning the episode's grand prize of $14,106, retiring his debt of $7,053 and being awarded a corresponding cash prize. He later appeared on the Fox Sports Network trivia game \"The Ultimate Fan League\" where he won $10,000 in prizes. That same year, he was approached to write for the shows \"Peer Pressure\" and \"Outrageous\". He later wrote and produced \"Gameworld\" and \"Faux Pause\" for the \"Game Show Network\", and in the summer of 1999, was contacted by the producers of \"Street Smarts\".\n\nNicotero has co-hosted \"The Sharon Osbourne Show\" and has appeared as a guest on \"The Wayne Brady Show\", \"The Rosie O'Donnell Show\", FSN's \"The Sports List\", Jury Duty, and the comedy game shows \"Make Me Laugh\" and \"Comedy on the Road\". In December 2008, Frank was the voice over announcer for NBC’s \"Funniest Christmas Moments Special\".\n\nIn 2011, he hosted a kids show on The Hub called \"The Game of Life\" based on the hit board game. He also was chosen as the second voiceover for TruTV's \"It Only Hurts When I Laugh\", replacing Thom Kikot. In 2012, Frank went on the road with \"The X Factor\" as the emcee for all the try-out shows. He was considered as a host for the show. In 2013, he hosted \"Win, Lose or Pawn\", a CMT game show set in a pawn shop. In 2015, he hosted another CMT game show, \"Pontoon Payday\". Currently, he is on the syndicated 2019 game show, 25 Words or Less and is credited as a warmup to the studio audience.\n\nNicotero is a graduate of North Allegheny Senior High School and is the cousin of special effects artist Greg Nicotero. Nicotero resides in Studio City with his dog Dodger the Dachshund and girlfriend Courtney Tyler.\n\n"}
{"id": "2008159", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2008159", "title": "Ramón Barros Luco", "text": "Ramón Barros Luco\n\nRamón Barros Luco (; June 9, 1835 – September 20, 1919) was President of Chile between 1910 and 1915.\n\nBarros Luco was born in 1835 in Santiago, Barros Luco was son of Ramón Luis Barros Fernández and Dolores Luco Fernández de Leiva. He graduated from Law School in 1858. He died in Santiago in 1919.\nHe was elected representative for the city of Casablanca in 1861, and from then on occupied a seat in the Lower House, being elected representative for Caldera (1867–70), Curicó (1870–73), Valparaíso (1873–76, and 1888–91), as well as for Santiago, during four separate terms, between 1876-1894. Later, he was elected senator for Linares (1900–06).\n\nIn his position as President of the House of Deputies in 1891, he endorsed the move to dismiss the then President of the Republic, José Manuel Balmaceda, a move drawn up by the Congress. In addition, he lent his support to the uprising of the National Army, whose movements he oversaw, (alongside Waldo Silva, vice-president of the Senate), until they took their place in the government in Iquique. The revolution having succeeded, he resumed his functions as a parliamentarian, performing as a minister on several occasions, whenever the situation called for, \"someone who posed no threat to anybody\".\n\nIn 1910, given the existing tensions between liberals and nationals in the debate over a common candidate, he was chosen as the representative for both parties. His career to date assured both parties that, if he were to be elected, their interests would remain unharmed.\n\nThe philosophy of Barros Luco's government can be summarised with the following phrase, well known in Chile, \"99% of problems solve themselves, and the remaining 1% have no solution\" (\"El 99% de los problemas se resuelven solos y el 1% restante no tiene solución\").\nHe applied this maxim to his administration, which would be consumed by the machinations of the parliament at large, the propensity of which was to delay or hinder the government under any pretense, including the most trivial claim of a minor deputy.\nHowever, Barros Luco cannot be accused of mere acceptance and reluctance to act, as he possessed a plan to counter the aforementioned political strategy of accusations and delays, and subsequent frequent change of ministers, known as the \"\"rotativa\"\". His policy was as follows: anytime a deputy placed an accusation against a minister leading to said minister's downfall, the accusing deputy would be called upon to head the new cabinet. \nHis hopes were dashed however, as this \"rotary\" system arrived at a total of 15 ministers, the first of whom lasted only 18 days in office, and the last of whom failed even to appear before Congress, the previous minister having resigned only days before the handover of government. \n\nSome deputies, led by the liberal Manuel Rivas Vicuña, tried to correct the parliamentary vices, with the support of Pres. Barros Luco. In 1912 he approved a modification to the system of parliamentary debate (in particular the system to finish debates), however if a large enough group opposed a motion or accused a minister, parliament could still be severely delayed. \n\nMeanwhile, the corruption amongst the political parties had reached alarming levels, in answer to which laws against fraud were approved in 1914 and 1915, in addition to a reform of the municipal system, which managed to eliminate the falsification of results, allowing for greater transparency. However this reform brought with it an unexpected negative side effect: an increase in electoral bribery. \n\nBarros Luco also focused his efforts on public works; during his term of office he initiated the construction of the port of San Antonio, in addition to the construction of roads, bridges, drinking water and sewers.\n\nAlso, the national School of Engineering, Museum of History, National Archives, School of Aviation and the Arica-La Paz railway were built during his tenure as President.\nHowever, the large majority of works during his time represented the completion of projects begun by Pedro Montt Montt, fulfilling a promise of Montt's, \"like the tale of a child with an egg. Another started the work, and no one will know in the end to whom the credit is due. They will end up by paying graditude to the one who has had the least to do with the project\" (Pres. Montt was reputed to have complained thus as he laid the cornerstone of the National Library of Chile).\nOn the international scene, on 25 May 1915, he signed the ABC Pact. This pact, signed between the so-called \"ABC Powers\" (Argentina, Brazil and Chile), was a means to combat the influence of the United States in the region, as well as to establish an equilibrium and channels of communication between the three signatories. The official name of the pact was the Non-Aggression, Consultation and Arbitration pact.\n\nDuring his government the First World War broke out, with Chile adopting a neutral position. While this position would bring initial economic benefits, in the long term the consequences were dire; although the price of salitre (sodium nitrate) had risen due to European demand, the limitation of salitre exports to Germany would mean that, apart from losing a valuable market, Chile would also lose their natural monopoly as a result of the development of synthetic salitre. This would spell the beginning of the end of the salitre industry in Chile.\n\nBarros Luco used to eat a particular sandwich often, which became known as a \"Barros Luco\". The sandwich is made with a slab of steak or multiple slices of beef with melted cheese, prepared on the grill and served hot. It is available today in most restaurants throughout Chile.\n\n"}
{"id": "2008169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2008169", "title": "Juan Luis Sanfuentes", "text": "Juan Luis Sanfuentes\n\nJuan Luis Sanfuentes Andonaegui, (; December 27, 1858 – July 16, 1930) was President of Chile between 1915 and 1920.\n\nSanfuentes was the son of writer and politician Salvador Sanfuentes Torres and Matilde Andonaegui. Orphaned at an early age and raised by his older brother, Enrique Salvador Sanfuentes, he trained as a lawyer at the University of Chile. He graduated with a Doctor of Law in 1879. He married Ana Echazarreta (ca. 1865–1927) in 1885, and the couple had five children.\n\nRising to the position of Minister of Finance under Federico Errázuriz Echaurren in 1901, Sanfuentes served as President of the Senate of Chile from 1906 through 1909.\n\nThe Chilean presidential election of 1915 developed into a bitterly contest between Sanfuentes —a coalition candidate of the Liberal Democratic Party and the Conservative Party— and Javier Ángel Figueroa —supported by the Liberal Alliance parties. Sanfuentes beat Figueroa by a single vote, among allegations of fraud and electoral intervention. The National Congress was called to confirm the result.\n\nThrough World War I Chile remained neutral. While the conflict lasted, domestic industry had one of its biggest booms, with the national industry growing 53% in those four years. But the end of the war led to a crisis of the nitrate industry, which resulted in a wave of social unrest. Sanfuentes' hard line against striking coal miners and trade unionists in the final year of his presidency was a key factor in the rise of his liberal reformer successor.\n\nAfter office Sanfuentes retired from public life, devoting himself to family life with his wife in his estate, Camarico.\n\n"}
{"id": "2008170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2008170", "title": "Jungle rot", "text": "Jungle rot\n\nJungle rot may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2008171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2008171", "title": "Strange and Beautiful (Aqualung album)", "text": "Strange and Beautiful (Aqualung album)\n\nStrange and Beautiful is Aqualung's first US album release: a compilation of tracks from Aqualung's first two albums: \"Aqualung\" and \"Still Life\". This compilation making up his first US release includes \"Strange and Beautiful,\" \"Brighter Than Sunshine,\" and \"Falling Out of Love.\"\n\nThe track \"Brighter Than Sunshine\" reached #32 on the Billboard Adult Top 40 Chart in the U.S. Strange and Beautiful reached #108 on the Billboard Top 200 and also hit #1 on the Top Heatseekers Chart. As of December 2006, the album has sold over 250,000 copies in the US.\n\nThe song \"Left Behind\" (Track 7) was used in a series of commercials for Chrysler.\nThe song 'Strange and Beautiful' is also featured on the soundtrack of the motion picture Wicker Park as well as the film A Lot Like Love.\n\n"}
{"id": "2008177", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2008177", "title": "Athabasca (provincial electoral district)", "text": "Athabasca (provincial electoral district)\n\nAthabasca was a provincial electoral district in Alberta mandated to return a single member to the Legislative Assembly of Alberta from 1905 to 1986. \n\nThe Athabasca electoral district was one of the original 56 districts created upon formation of Alberta in 1905. Throughout the years the district's boundaries would continue to change, however the district would remain in North-East Alberta throughout the 81 years of it's existence.\n\nVoting in rural electoral districts in Alberta was reformed prior to the 1926 Alberta general election, and Members of the Legislative Assembly were elected through Instant-runoff voting until the 1959 Alberta general election. This would have a relatively minor effect on the Athabasca district, as elected members received a plurality of votes (above 50%) in all general elections besides 1926, 1940 and 1955. Outside of 1926-1959, the Athabasca district would use First-past-the-post voting to elect a single member to the legislature.\n\nThe Athabasca district was redistributed prior to the 1986 Alberta general election, the area the district covered was merged with Lac La Biche to form the riding of Athabasca-Lac La Biche.\n\nThe Athabasca electoral district was created in 1905 as part of the original twenty-five electoral districts when Alberta was formed into a province from the Northwest Territories. The district consisted mostly undeveloped wilderness covering the eastern half of northern Alberta. In 1905 the primary occupation was hunting and trapping and the local economy existed around the fur trade. The town of Athabasca which was the only major settlement in the district was experiencing a boom at that time as people flocked north to buy real estate.\n\nThe provincial Liberal party nominated candidate William Fletcher Bredin as their candidate. He was a pioneer fur trader who was well known in the district. Bredin made history by becoming the first person acclaimed to serve in the Legislative Assembly of Alberta. The provincial Conservative party being very weak in organization in northern Alberta was unable to find a candidate to oppose him. This was the only electoral district during this general election that sent a candidate to Edmonton by acclimation.\n\nDistrict results from the first province wide plebiscite on electricity regulation.\n\nOn October 30, 1957 a stand-alone plebiscite was held province wide in all 50 of the then current provincial electoral districts in Alberta. The government decided to consult Alberta voters to decide on liquor sales and mixed drinking after a divisive debate in the Legislature. The plebiscite was intended to deal with the growing demand for reforming antiquated liquor control laws.\n\nThe plebiscite was conducted in two parts. Question A asked in all districts, asked the voters if the sale of liquor should be expanded in Alberta, while Question B asked in a handful of districts within the corporate limits of Calgary and Edmonton asked if men and woman were allowed to drink together in establishments.\n\nProvince wide Question A of the plebiscite passed in 33 of the 50 districts while Question B passed in all five districts. Athbasca voted by a large majority in favor of the issue. The district recorded one of the lowest turnouts. It was well below the province wide 46% average.\n\nOfficial district returns were released to the public on December 31, 1957. The Social Credit government in power at the time did not considered the results binding. However the results of the vote led the government to repeal all existing liquor legislation and introduce an entirely new \"Liquor Act\".\n\nMunicipal districts lying inside electoral districts that voted against the Plebiscite were designated Local Option Zones by the Alberta Liquor Control Board and considered effective dry zones, business owners that wanted a license had to petition for a binding municipal plebiscite in order to be granted a license.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2008182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2008182", "title": "Emiliano Figueroa", "text": "Emiliano Figueroa\n\nEmiliano Figueroa Larraín (; July 12, 1866 – May 15, 1931) was President of Chile from December 23, 1925 until his resignation on May 10, 1927. He also served as Acting president for a few months in 1910.\n\nFigueroa was born on July 12, 1866 in Santiago, son of Francisco de Paula Figueroa Araoz and of Rosalía Larraín Echeverría. He studied in the San Ignacio School and then went on to study law at the State University. He graduated in 1889 and that same year was named secretary to the Intendant of Santiago.\n\nFigueroa decided to embark on a political career and joined the Liberal Democratic Party, which supported a stronger executive. He was elected deputy for Victoria and Melipilla in 1900 and reelected in 1903. In 1907, once his term had ended, he was selected to replace Juan José Valenzuela, deputy for Rere and Puchacay, who had died in July that year. In 1909, Figueroa was once again elected to the Chamber of Deputies, this time representing Itata.\n\nOn October 25, 1907, President Pedro Montt named Figueroa Minister of Justice, a position which he kept until September 15, 1909. President Montt died on August 16, 1910 and was replaced by his Minister of Interior, Elías Fernández Albano, who became acting president. Fernández named Figueroa Minister of Interior but died on September 6 that very year. Figueroa then replaced Fernández as acting president and stayed in that position until December 23, when Ramón Barros Luco was inaugurated as President.\n\nBarros named Figueroa to the post of ambassador to Spain in 1911, and in 1914 became ambassador to Argentina. Figueroa was considered a harmless politician and the three major political parties in Chile, Conservative, Liberal, and Radical, chose him as a consensus candidate for the 1925 Chilean presidential election. The purpose of having a single candidate was to avoid political campaigning in the volatile political situation the country was in. Nevertheless, leftist José Santos Salas ignored the three parties' agreement and declared his candidacy, backed by the Social Republican Worker's Union.\n\nFigueroa easily defeated Salas and became president on 23 December 1925. Figueroa kept the ambitious General Carlos Ibáñez as Minister of War, and later named him Minister of the Interior. In 1927, Ibáñez ordered the arrest of Figueroa's brother Javier Ángel, President of the Supreme Court. Unable to withstand the political pressure, Figueroa resigned and Ibáñez became acting president. After winning the presidential election that year with 98% of the vote, Ibáñez became President and wielded dictatorial powers.\n\nIbáñez named Figueroa ambassador to Peru in 1928. Upon his return in 1929, Figueroa became president of the Central Bank of Chile. He died in a car accident on May 15, 1931.\n\n"}
{"id": "2008184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2008184", "title": "Strange News from Another Star", "text": "Strange News from Another Star\n\nStrange News from Another Star is a collection of eight short stories written by the German author Hermann Hesse between 1913 and 1918. It was first published as Märchen in German in 1919 and was translated to English by Denver Lindley in 1972. The first English publication was in 1972.\n\nThe stories, with the year in which they were written, are:\n\n\"Märchen\" (which means Fairy Tales) comprised seven of these stories. \"Flute Dream\" was added for the English publication in 1972 as per an arrangement Hesse had made for the final collected edition of his works.\n\nThese stories were also published in \"The Complete Fairy Tales of Hermann Hesse\" in 1995 with a new English translation by Jack Zipes. Two of the stories' English titles changed with this new translation:\n\nThese stories were written prior to and during the First World War and brought Hesse into conflict with supporters of the war, his country and its government. Unlike his earlier works, these stories do not lend themselves to rational interpretation. They are essentially fairy tales dealing with dream worlds, the subconscious and magic. In these stories, Hesse challenged conventional intellectual life and the orthodoxy of the world.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2008185", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2008185", "title": "Thomas (Jarvis novel)", "text": "Thomas (Jarvis novel)\n\nThomas is the third novel in the Deptford Histories Trilogy by Robin Jarvis (first published in 1995).\n\nThomas tells of the midshipmouse Thomas Triton's adventures when he was young. He and his friend Woodget Pipple become embroiled in the hideous schemes of the Scale, the followers of the evil serpent god Sarpedon.\n"}
{"id": "2008189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2008189", "title": "Jean Swain", "text": "Jean Swain\n\nJean Adair Swain (August 12, 1923 – July 17, 2000) was born in New York City and grew up in Port Washington, Long Island, where she graduated from high school at age 16. Her musical talents included playing the cello in orchestras and chamber music groups, arranging, composing, and teaching. She was also an accomplished pianist.\n\nShe received her degree in music at Smith College (1945) where she was a founding member and arranger for the \"Smithereens,\"a singing group now a campus tradition.\n\nIn 1946 she and her sister, Nancy Swain Overton, founded a vocal quartet The Heathertones with Bix Brent and Pauli Skindlov (later replaced by Marianne McCormick).\n\nAfter The Heathertones broke up, Jean pursued a career in documentary film production with Robert Drew where she was involved with filming of Yehudi Menuhin, Duke Ellington and the opening of the Metropolitan Opera at Lincoln Center.\n\nIn 1988, she joined her sister in a re-formed Chordettes of \"Mr. Sandman\" fame. Lynn Evans was an original member of that group and Nancy had sung with them for four years. Completing the foursome was Doris Alberti, a long-time barbershop music singer. hey performed at Radio City Music Hall, the Nassau Coliseum and toured with Eddy Arnold. In 1997 the group disbanded and Jean returned to her first love—playing cello in chamber groups and orchestras.\n\n"}
{"id": "2008200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2008200", "title": "Addlestone railway station", "text": "Addlestone railway station\n\nAddlestone railway station serves the town of Addlestone in the Runnymede District of Surrey, England. It is located on the Chertsey Branch Line and is operated by South Western Railway.\n\nThe station was opened, with the branch line, on 14 February 1848. It comprises Up and Down platforms having brick buildings: the main building being on the Down side. There is a level crossing with Station Road (B3121) on the south side of the station. Just under a mile south of the station, the line crosses the River Wey. After leaving the station southbound trains approach Addlestone Junction and can either head westward towards Byfleet and New Haw (and subsequent stations on the South Western Main Line) or head eastward to terminate at Weybridge.\n\nOpened by the London and South Western Railway, it became part of the Southern Railway during the Grouping of 1923. The line then passed on to the Southern Region of British Railways on nationalisation in 1948.\n\nWhen Sectorisation was introduced, the station was served by Network SouthEast until the Privatisation of British Railways.\n\nThere is a direct half-hourly service at non-peak times from the station to Waterloo via Staines and Hounslow, although it is normally quicker to change at Virginia Water for a faster service. An alternative route to Waterloo is to change at Weybridge (Mondays to Saturdays) or Byfleet & New Haw (Sundays and early mornings/late evenings only) on the South Western Main Line.\n\nBus routes 431 and 461, both operated on behalf of Surrey County Council, stop outside the station.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2008201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2008201", "title": "Tod Robbins", "text": "Tod Robbins\n\nClarence Aaron Robbins (25 June 1888 - May 10 1949), billed as C.A Robbins and better known as Tod Robbins, was an American author of horror and mystery fiction, particularly novels and short story collections.\n\nRobbins was born in Brooklyn, 25 June 1888. He attended Washington and Lee University (Lexington, Virginia) and—along with Mark W. Sheafe (1884?–1949) and Thornton Whitney Allen (1890–1944)—wrote the college song \"Washington and Lee Swing.\" Sheafe wrote the tune in 1905, Allen set the music down on paper in 1909 and Robbins provided the words. The completed version was published in 1910.\n\nRobbins authored two short story collections and several novels. His work often contains bizarre and frightening plots, sometimes influenced by writers like Oscar Wilde (Robbins' \"The Living Portrait\" is a homage to \"The Picture of Dorian Gray\") and Robert W. Chambers. Robbins's \"Mysterious Martin\" (1912) is an early novel about a serial killer. His novel \"The Unholy Three\" (1917) was twice adapted for the screen, a silent version directed by Tod Browning in 1925 and a sound version directed by Jack Conway in 1930; both adaptations starred Lon Chaney. Robbins was also the author of the short story \"Spurs\", which Browning used as the basis for \"Freaks\" (1932), a film which later developed a cult following. Some of Robbins's work was later reprinted in the \"Creeps\" series of horror anthologies edited by Charles Birkin.\n\nRobbins' novel \"Fighting Mad\" reportedly won the $3,000 contest held in 1922 by \"Physical Culture\" magazine, serializing the novel beginning with the January 1922 issue.\n\nE. F. Bleiler described Robbins' \"Who Wants A Green Bottle?\" as \"excellent commercial fiction, with good little touches\".\n\nRobbins emigrated to the French Riviera from New York City and refused to leave during the Nazi occupation of France. He spent the war in a concentration camp and died in Saint-Jean-Cap-Ferrat in 1949.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2008204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2008204", "title": "White-browed meadowlark", "text": "White-browed meadowlark\n\nThe white-browed meadowlark (\"Leistes superciliaris\") is a passerine bird in the New World family Icteridae. It was formerly named white-browed blackbird but is not closely related to the red-winged blackbird group.\n\nThe white-browed meadowlark breeds in north-eastern Brazil and in southern South America from south-western Brazil through Paraguay, Uruguay and Argentina. Southern populations are partially migratory.\n\nLike other meadowlarks, it is a bird associated with open country, including moist grasslands, pasture and cultivation, preferably with the odd bush or fence post for males to use as a songpost. In display the male flies up to 10 m in the air, then parachutes down on folded wings whilst singing an initially buzzing song, followed by a series of notes \"TZZZZZZ-teee-chu-chu-chak-chak\". The call is a short \"chuck\".\n\nThe white-browed meadowlark builds a deep grass-lined open cup nest on the ground amongst tall grasses, with several nests often close together. The normal clutch is three to five reddish brown-blotched greenish eggs. This species is often parasitised by the shiny cowbird, and on one occasion 19 cowbird eggs were found with one meadowlark egg in a nest.\n\nThe white-browed meadowlark is a small icterid. The male has mainly black plumage, apart from a bright red throat, belly and wing epaulets, and a white supercilium. The female has buff edged dark brown upperpart feathers, buff underparts, and pale streaks through the crown and eye. Juveniles resemble the female, but are paler.\n\nThis species is very closely related to the red-breasted meadowlark, \"L. militaris\", which breeds further north, and was formerly considered to be subspecies of that bird. The male white-browed is easily distinguished by his bright white supercilium, but females of the two species are almost identical. The female red-breasted meadowlark is longer billed, smaller, and shorter winged than the white-browed, with more red and less streaking on the underparts.\n\nThis gregarious bird feeds mainly on insects and some seeds, including rice, and forages on the ground like a bobolink.\n\nThe white-browed meadowlark has benefited from the more open habitat created by forest clearance and ranching, and is extending its range.\n\n"}
{"id": "2008209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2008209", "title": "Arpent", "text": "Arpent\n\nAn arpent () is a unit of length and a unit of area. It is a pre-metric French unit based on the Roman \"actus\". It is used in Quebec, some areas of the United States that were part of French Louisiana, and in Mauritius and the Seychelles.\n\nThe word \"arpent\" is believed to derive from the Late Latin \"arepennis\" (equal to half a \"jugerum\"), which in turn comes from the Gaulish *\"are-penno\"- (\"end, extremity of a field\").\n\nThere were various standard arpents. The most common were the arpent used in North America, which was defined as 180 French feet (\", of approximately ), and the arpent used in Paris, which was defined as 220 French feet.\n\n\nHistorically, in North America, 1 (square) arpent (\"), also known as a French acre, was 180 French feet × 180 French feet = 32,400 French square feet = about 3419 square metres = about 0.845 English acres. Certain U.S. states have official definitions of the arpent which vary slightly:\n\nIn Paris, the square arpent was 220 French feet × 220 French feet = 48,400 French square feet, about .\n\nIn Mauritius and Seychelles, an arpent is about 4220.87 square metres, 0.4221 hectares, 1.043 acres.\n\nIn Louisiana, parcels of land known as \"arpent\" sections or French \"arpent\" land grants also pre-date the Public Land Survey System (PLSS), but are treated as PLSS sections. An \"arpent\" is a French measurement of approximately , and a square arpent (also referred to as an \"arpent\") is about .\n\nFrench arpent land divisions are long narrow parcels of land, also called ribbon farms, usually found along the navigable streams of southern Louisiana, and also found along major waterways in other areas. This system of land subdivision was begun by French settlers in the 18th century, according to typical French practice at the time and was continued by both the Spanish and by the American government after the acquisition of the Louisiana Purchase. A typical French arpent land division is 2 to 4 arpents wide along the river by 40 to 60 arpents deep, while the Spanish arpent land divisions tend to be 6 to 8 arpents wide by 40 arpents deep.\n\nThis method of land division provided each land-owner with river frontage as well as land suitable for cultivation and habitation. These areas are given numbers just like standard sections, although the section numbers frequently exceed the normal upper limit of 36.\n"}
{"id": "2008212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2008212", "title": "Fleabee's Fortune", "text": "Fleabee's Fortune\n\nFleabee's Fortune is the first book in the Deptford Mouselets Series by Robin Jarvis (first published in 2004).\n\nThe story, taking place in the year before the events of \"The Dark Portal\", is about a young ratgirl named Fleabee, who is unlike the rest of her kind. She is gentle and does not want to harm anything. But the festival of the First Blood is approaching, when young ratlings must murder by midnight or be killed themselves. And so Fleabee has to make a difficult choice.\n"}
{"id": "2008215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2008215", "title": "Quark model", "text": "Quark model\n\nIn particle physics, the quark model is a classification scheme for hadrons in terms of their valence quarks—the quarks and antiquarks which give rise to the quantum numbers of the hadrons. The quark model underlies \"flavor SU(3)\", or the Eightfold Way, the successful classification scheme organizing the large number of lighter hadrons that were being discovered starting in the 1950s and continuing through the 1960s. It received experimental verification beginning in the late 1960s and is a valid effective classification of them to date. The model was independently proposed by physicists Murray Gell-Mann, who dubbed them \"quarks\" in a concise paper, and George Zweig, who suggested \"aces\" in a longer manuscript. André Petermann also touched upon the central ideas from 1963 to 1965, without as much quantitative substantiation. Today, the model has essentially been absorbed as a component of the established quantum field theory of strong and electroweak particle interactions, dubbed the Standard Model.\n\nHadrons are not really \"elementary\", and can be regarded as bound states of their \"valence quarks\" and antiquarks, which give rise to the quantum numbers of the hadrons. These quantum numbers are labels identifying the hadrons, and are of two kinds. One set comes from the Poincaré symmetry—\"J\", where \"J\", \"P\" and \"C\" stand for the total angular momentum, P-symmetry, and C-symmetry, respectively.\n\nThe remaining are flavor quantum numbers such as the isospin, strangeness, charm, and so on. The strong interactions binding the quarks together are insensitive to these quantum numbers, so variation of them leads to systematic mass and coupling relationships among the hadrons in the same flavor multiplet.\n\nAll quarks are assigned a baryon number of ⅓. Up, charm and top quarks have an electric charge of +⅔, while the down, strange, and bottom quarks have an electric charge of −⅓. Antiquarks have the opposite quantum numbers. Quarks are spin-½ particles, and thus fermions. Each quark or antiquark obeys the Gell-Mann−Nishijima formula individually, so any additive assembly of them will as well.\n\nMesons are made of a valence quark−antiquark pair (thus have a baryon number of 0), while baryons are made of three quarks (thus have a baryon number of 1). This article discusses the quark model for the up, down, and strange flavors of quark (which form an approximate flavor SU(3) symmetry). There are generalizations to larger number of flavors.\n\nDeveloping classification schemes for hadrons became a timely question after new experimental techniques uncovered so many of them that it became clear that they could not all be elementary. These discoveries led Wolfgang Pauli to exclaim \"Had I foreseen that, I would have gone into botany.\" and Enrico Fermi to advise his student Leon Lederman: \"Young man, if I could remember the names of these particles, I would have been a botanist.\" These new schemes earned Nobel prizes for experimental particle physicists, including Luis Alvarez, who was at the forefront of many of these developments. Constructing hadrons as bound states of fewer constituents would thus organize the \"zoo\" at hand. Several early proposals, such as the ones by Enrico Fermi and Chen-Ning Yang (1949), and the Sakata model (1956), ended up satisfactorily covering the mesons, but failed with baryons, and so were unable to explain all the data.\n\nThe Gell-Mann–Nishijima formula, developed by Murray Gell-Mann and Kazuhiko Nishijima, led to the Eightfold Way classification, invented by Gell-Mann, with important independent contributions from Yuval Ne'eman, in 1961. The hadrons were organized into SU(3) representation multiplets, octets and decuplets, of roughly the same mass, due to the strong interactions; and smaller mass differences linked to the flavor quantum numbers, invisible to the strong interactions. The Gell-Mann–Okubo mass formula systematized the quantification of these small mass differences among members of a hadronic multiplet, controlled by the explicit symmetry breaking of SU(3).\n\nThe spin- baryon, a member of the ground-state decuplet, was a crucial prediction of that classification. After it was discovered in an experiment at Brookhaven National Laboratory, Gell-Mann received a Nobel prize in physics for his work on the Eightfold Way, in 1969.\n\nFinally, in 1964, Gell-Mann, and, independently, George Zweig, discerned what the Eightfold Way picture encodes. They posited elementary fermionic constituents, unobserved, and possibly unobservable in a free form, underlying and elegantly encoding the Eightfold Way classification, in an economical, tight structure, resulting in further simplicity. Hadronic mass differences were now linked to the different masses of the constituent quarks.\n\nIt would take about a decade for the unexpected nature—and physical reality—of these quarks to be appreciated more fully (See Quarks). Counter-intuitively, they cannot ever be observed in isolation (color confinement), but instead always combine with other quarks to form full hadrons, which then furnish ample indirect information on the trapped quarks themselves. Conversely, the quarks serve in the definition of quantum chromodynamics, the fundamental theory fully describing the strong interactions; and the Eightfold Way is now understood to be a consequence of the flavor symmetry structure of the lightest three of them.\n\nThe Eightfold Way classification is named after the following fact: If we take three flavors of quarks, then the quarks lie in the fundamental representation, 3 (called the triplet) of flavor SU(3). The antiquarks lie in the complex conjugate representation . The nine states (nonet) made out of a pair can be decomposed into the trivial representation, 1 (called the singlet), and the adjoint representation, 8 (called the octet). The notation for this decomposition is\n\nFigure 1 shows the application of this decomposition to the mesons. If the flavor symmetry were exact (as in the limit that only the strong interactions operate, but the electroweak interactions are notionally switched off), then all nine mesons would have the same mass. However, the physical content of the full theory includes consideration of the symmetry breaking induced by the quark mass differences, and considerations of mixing between various multiplets (such as the octet and the singlet).\n\nN.B. Nevertheless, the mass splitting between the and the is larger than the quark model can accommodate, and this \"– puzzle\" has its origin in topological peculiarities of the strong interaction vacuum, such as instanton configurations.\n\nMesons are hadrons with zero baryon number. If the quark–antiquark pair are in an orbital angular momentum state, and have spin , then\n\nIf \"P\" = (−1), then it follows that \"S\" = 1, thus \"PC\"= 1. States with these quantum numbers are called \"natural parity states\"; while all other quantum numbers are thus called \"exotic\" (for example the state ).\n\n \n\nSince quarks are fermions, the spin–statistics theorem implies that the wavefunction of a baryon must be antisymmetric under exchange of any two quarks. This antisymmetric wavefunction is obtained by making it fully antisymmetric in color, discussed below, and symmetric in flavor, spin and space put together. With three flavors, the decomposition in flavor is\nThe decuplet is symmetric in flavor, the singlet antisymmetric and the two octets have mixed symmetry. The space and spin parts of the states are thereby fixed once the orbital angular momentum is given.\n\nIt is sometimes useful to think of the basis states of quarks as the six states of three flavors and two spins per flavor. This approximate symmetry is called spin-flavor SU(6). In terms of this, the decomposition is\n\nThe 56 states with symmetric combination of spin and flavour decompose under flavor SU(3) into\nwhere the superscript denotes the spin, \"S\", of the baryon. Since these states are symmetric in spin and flavor, they should also be symmetric in space—a condition that is easily satisfied by making the orbital angular momentum \"L\" = 0. These are the ground state baryons.\n\nThe \"S\" =  octet baryons are the two nucleons (, ), the three Sigmas (, , ), the two Xis (, ), and the Lambda (). The \"S\" =  decuplet baryons are the four Deltas (, , , ), three Sigmas (, , ), two Xis (, ), and the Omega ().\n\nFor example, the constituent quark model wavefunction for the proton is \n\nMixing of baryons, mass splittings within and between multiplets, and magnetic moments are some of the other quantities that the model predicts successfully.\n\nColor quantum numbers are the characteristic charges of the strong force, and are completely uninvolved in electroweak interactions. They were discovered as a consequence of the quark model classification, when it was appreciated that the spin \"S\" =  baryon, the , required three up quarks with parallel spins and vanishing orbital angular momentum. Therefore, it could not have an antisymmetric wave function, (required by the Pauli exclusion principle), unless there were a hidden quantum number. Oscar Greenberg noted this problem in 1964, suggesting that quarks should be para-fermions.\n\nInstead, six months later, Moo-Young Han and Yoichiro Nambu suggested the existence of three triplets of quarks to solve this problem, but flavor and color intertwined in that model: They did not commute.\n\nThe modern concept of color completely commuting with all other charges and providing the strong force charge was articulated in 1973, by William Bardeen, ,\nand Murray Gell-Mann.\n\nWhile the quark model is derivable from the theory of quantum chromodynamics, the structure of hadrons is more complicated than this model allows. The full quantum mechanical wave function of any hadron must include virtual quark pairs as well as virtual gluons, and allows for a variety of mixings. There may be hadrons which lie outside the quark model. Among these are the \"glueballs\" (which contain only valence gluons), \"hybrids\" (which contain valence quarks as well as gluons) and \"exotic hadrons\" (such as tetraquarks or pentaquarks).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2008234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2008234", "title": "The Dark Portal", "text": "The Dark Portal\n\nThe Dark Portal is the first book in the Deptford Mice Trilogy by Robin Jarvis. It was first published in 1989 and was a runner-up for the 1989 Smarties Book Prize.\n\nIn the sewers of Deptford there lurks a dark presence that fills the tunnels with fear: Jupiter, a dark god known only by his evil glowing eyes seen behind a dark \"portal\" in the tunnel wall. The rats worship him and do his dark bidding. No one really knows who he is except for his lieutenant Morgan.\n\nThe Deptford mice, who worship the Green Mouse who brings Spring, are aware of Jupiter's evil presence in the tunnels. One of the mice, Albert Brown, is pulled through a grate into the sewers by the dark enchantments that Jupiter has woven there. He meets a cheeky mouse from the city, Piccadilly, also lost inside the lair of the rats. When Albert is captured by Morgan, a Cornish, piebald rat with a stump for a tail and rings through his ears (none other than Jupiter's lieutenant) and brought to Jupiter, Piccadilly escapes into Albert's home, known as the Skirtings, where he meets a large number of friends.\n\nFirstly, there is Audrey Brown, Albert's day-dreaming daughter who hates Piccadilly for surviving where her father did not. Then there is Arthur Brown, Audrey's plump and funny brother. There is also simple field mouse William Scuttle or 'Twit' and his cousin, the sickly albino runt, Oswald Chitter. Along with the old Midship-mouse Thomas Triton and Gwen Brown, the mother of Audrey and Arthur, they venture into the sewers to banish Jupiter from the world. The Rat God, however, has an evil plan to unleash the Black Death on the world once more, ridding it of humans and enabling him to conquer it.\n\nAfter a tense-confrontation with Jupiter in this throne-room, during which the malevolent deity is revealed to be a monstrous cat, Audrey defeats the Dark Lord by flinging her mousebrass at him. The talisman explodes and Jupiter falls into the water, which is rapidly flooding his chamber. The spirits of the many mice and rats he has tortured and devoured then rise up and drag the dark god down to a watery grave. Audrey glimpses her father among the legion of spirits as they depart and despairs, realizing that he is truly dead. The sewer floods and the Black Death is destroyed. Thankful that they are alive, and resolving to celebrate Jupiter's downfall once they return home, the mice begin the journey back to the surface- but as they leave, Orfeo the bat foretells doom.\n\nIn 2010 London-based theatre company Tiny Dog Productions created the first official stage production of \"The Dark Portal\" under licence from Robin Jarvis. After successful preview showings at The Space Theatre, London.; the production was again performed in April 2011 at the New Wimbledon Theatre.\n\n"}
{"id": "2008243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2008243", "title": "Reforms and Order Party", "text": "Reforms and Order Party\n\nParty Reform and Order ( \"Partiya Reformy i Poriadok\") was a liberal political party in Ukraine. The party merged into All-Ukrainian Union \"Fatherland\" in June 2013.\n\nThe party was organized in October 1997 as a right-wing party, led by ex-vice Prime Minister Viktor Pynzenyk. And it was registered as the fiftieth political party in the history of Ukrainian modern politics. The party was an offspring from the electoral bloc of 1997 \"Forward, Ukraine!\".\n\nAt the parliamentary elections on 29 March 1998 the party, obtained 3,13% of the votes, 10th place out of 30 participated parties, and 3 (single-mandate constituency) seats in the parliament; 2 in the Lviv Oblast and 1 in the Mykolaiv Oblast.\n\nAt the parliamentary elections on 30 March 2002, the party was part of the Viktor Yushchenko Bloc Our Ukraine. Before the Orange Revolution of 2004 the party renamed itself into Our Ukraine (\"Nasha Ukrayina\"). After the revolution the party kept some distance from the People's Union Our Ukraine and after a court decision renamed itself again in Party Reform and Order (\"Partiya Reformy i Poriadok\").\n\nAt the parliamentary elections on 26 March 2006, it won in an alliance with Pora 1.47% of the popular vote and no seats.\n\nOn December 3, 2006 the party announced their decision to join the Yuliya Tymoshenko Bloc.\nIn the parliamentary elections on 30 September 2007, the party was part of the Yulia Tymoshenko Bloc alliance, that won 156 out of 450 seats.\n\nIn April 2010 Viktor Pynzenyk left the party; Sergei Sobolev had been elected party chairman on February 20, 2010.\n\nIn the 2010 local elections the party won 2 representative in the regional parliament of the Cherkasy Oblast and 1 seats in the city council of Lviv.\n\nThe party competed on one single party under \"umbrella\" party \"Fatherland\" (also a former member of the Yuliya Tymoshenko Bloc), together with several other parties, during the 2012 parliamentary elections During the election this list won 62 seats (25.55% of the votes) under the proportional party-list system and another 39 by winning 39 simple-majority constituencies; a total of 101 seats in Parliament.\n\nThe party (and Front for Change) merged into \"Fatherland\" on 15 June 2013. The party is still registered at the Ukrainian Ministry of Justice.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2008248", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2008248", "title": "Fratelli Alinari", "text": "Fratelli Alinari\n\nFratelli Alinari is the world's oldest photographic firm, founded in Florence, Italy in 1852. Its archives contains 5.5 million photographs, ranging from daguerreotypes to modern digital photos from around the world.\n\nIn 1852, Leopoldo Alinari founded a photographic studio. His brothers Giuseppe and Romualdo joined him two years later to establish Fratelli Alinari Fotografi Editori, a photographic workshop dedicated initially to the documentation of notable Italian paintings, sculptures, and architecture. They subsequently expanded the scope of their photographic project to include the towns and landscapes of Italy, as well as portrait photography and images of national costume. The brothers achieved recognition for the quality of their work, and by 1860 their portrait subjects included the Italian royal family.\n\nIt is the oldest foundation in the world still active in the field of photography, and more generally in the sphere of the image and communication.\nToday Alinari is the guardian of a photographic \"corpus\" which includes a patrimony of its own of over 5,500,000 pictures, historical and contemporary, ranging from vintage prints, glass plate negatives to film and fotocolors, and is responsible for the management of an ongoing program of exhibitions and publishing. It can supply iconographical research services and manages both Italian and foreign photographic archives, constantly increasing its \"image-bank\", in part already on microfiches and now also on digital supports which will be available for consultation on-line. Alinari also provides photographic publishing and its Art Printworks still uses the artisan technique of collotype on paper and silver plates from photographic images.\n\nFrom 2007, the Museum of Multimedia and History of Photography (MNAF) is open to the public in Florence, Italy, providing a special service on photographic exhibitions, permanent show of material about the history of photography, and education/training services for students and people with disabilities (there is a section with 3D images where blind people can touch 3D artifacts and understand the images in a unique way).\n\nIn order to make the images available to a greater number of persons, Alinari has established an on-line search system of its photographic archives, employing a system of iconographic classification produced in collaboration with the University of Florence with over 330,000 images. 400 new images are added online daily. The digitization process is done using a Kodak EverSmart Supreme flatbed scanner and a Leaf/Mamiya 80 megapixels Aptus II 12 80 digital camera back. Color correction is done using Eizo monitors through a fully calibrated system. Color profiling is done using Adobe '98 color space.\n\nIn 1994 the firm began numerous initiatives for collaboration in technological and cultural projects in Europe. Among the most important are Aquarelle, Artline, Victor, Imprimatur, aceMedia, Euridice, 2Kan, Orpheus, Ermione, RegNet, TNT, Migrator 2000, eCHASE, aceMedia, Multimatch and today: MILE, Tripod, Eurogene, Fotomemoria, CITER and today GLOCAL, VisitoTuscany, CONVERGENCE, Paths, Decipher, Glocal and today BBinding, EuropeanaPhotography and Ambrosia. The Archive is active in Italy and Europe in several research and education research and marketing validation project, providing contribution mainly in the following domains: watermarking, digital rights management, content provider, 2D-3D applications, image enhancement, intelligent content retrieval, web semantic and ontologies, distance learning, preservation and image restoration, validation, testing, mobile .app, exploitation, multimedia content supply.\n\n"}
{"id": "2008253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2008253", "title": "No. 75 Squadron RAF", "text": "No. 75 Squadron RAF\n\nNo. 75 Squadron of the Royal Air Force operated as a bomber unit in World War II, before being transferred to the Royal New Zealand Air Force in 1945.\n\nEstablished as a unit of the Royal Flying Corps for Home Defence, it was formed at Goldington on 1 October 1916 with BE2c and later BE2e aircraft, it moved to Elmswell in East Anglia in September 1917, exchanging BE2c for FE2b. Operational flying against day and night raids proved fruitless and the pilots did not engage the enemy. Late in 1917, the Squadron became part of 50 Southern Wing. Minimal records exist to show that the Squadron flew 16 interception sorties between September 1917 to August 1918. In May 1918 the squadron moved to North Weald tasked with night fighting, and it received Avro 504K and Sopwith Pups in October.\n\nAfter the war, Sopwith Camels arrived (December) and finally Sopwith Snipes (March 1919). Little information has survived about the squadron's early history, however, John Rawling's \"Fighter Squadrons of the Royal Air Force\" confirms that it saw no action before being disbanded, still at North Weald, on 13 June 1919.\n\nThe squadron reformed as No. 75 (Bomber) Squadron on 15 March 1937 as part of a planned expansion of the RAF. It used B Flight, No. 218 Squadron as cadre, forming at RAF Driffield in Yorkshire. Initial aircraft received were four Vickers Virginia night bombers and two Avro Ansons. Later more Ansons arrived from No. 215 Squadron to give six in each flight. By September Handley Page Harrow heavy bombers replaced the Virginias and the squadron became a long-range bomber unit with six aircraft in each flight and four in reserve, with the squadron code of '75' painted on the fuselage. In July 1938 they moved to RAF Honington and were issued with the aircraft code of 'FO' to replace the '75'. By March 1939, 75 Sqn became the Pool for No. 3 Group, RAF Bomber Command, effectively becoming an Operational Training Unit (OTU), it moved to RAF Stradishall in July 1939 and re-equipped with Vickers Wellington Mk1's. On 4 April 1940, 75 Sqn was absorbed into No.6 (Training) Group and ceased to exist. The reformed squadron did not create, adopt or have authorised an official RAF Squadron badge.\n\nThe New Zealand government ordered 30 Vickers Wellington Mk1C bombers in 1938. RNZAF aircrew were sent to England to train on the new aircraft based at RAF Marham. The crews were to fly the aircraft to New Zealand in batches of six. RAF official records name this group of airman as \"The New Zealand Squadron\", and as a result of Britain declaring war against Germany, the New Zealand Government made the airman and the aircraft available to the RAF to help with the new war effort. A decision by the British Air Ministry to give them the defunct No. 75 Squadron numberplate on 4 April 1940, meant that the nucleus of The New Zealand Squadron personnel remained together as an operational unit of the RAF.\n\nOn 4 April 1940, The New Zealand Squadron was renamed No. 75 Squadron with the letters (NZ) being added in brackets after the number. This was the first Commonwealth squadron to be so created in the Second World War. Although often referred to, then and since, as an RNZAF unit, 75 Squadron was equipped and controlled by the RAF until VJ Day. (This was not the case with most RNZAF units, as well as those from the other Dominions; technically these units were attached to the RAF under Article XV of the Empire Air Training Scheme, and were known as \"Article XV squadrons\".)\n\n75 (NZ) Sqn rejoined No. 3 Group and was based initially at RAF Feltwell, then RAF Mildenhall, RAF Newmarket and RAF Mepal in Cambridgeshire. It saw action over France, Norway, Belgium, Italy, Sweden and Germany.\n\nIts code letters of \"AA\" became widely recognised on both sides, The squadron operated with three flights after receiving Short Stirlings, and \"C\" Flight was given the code letters \"JN\" as there were insufficient codes for three flights of \"AA\". Avro Lancasters replaced the Stirlings in 1944 until August 1945 when after moving to RAF Spilsby the squadron began converting to Avro Lincolns as part of the new Tiger Force. The squadron had to leave their well tuned and looked-after Lancasters at Mepal and were given a squadron of rather poorly kept Lancasters at Spilsby. The personnel were now completely New Zealanders, but when Japan surrendered, the squadron had received only three Lincolns to take to the Far East, and it was soon disbanded, with the New Zealanders being slowly shipped home over a twelve-month period.\n\n75 (Bomber) Squadron 1937–1940, and 75 (NZ) Squadron 1940–1945,\nwas based at:\n\nIn October 1946, in gratitude for the work done and sacrifices made by its New Zealand aircrew, Britain transferred the squadron number, badge and colours to the Royal New Zealand Air Force. No. 2 Squadron RNZAF was disposing of its Ventura bombers at RNZAF Base Ohakea at the time, and so was disbanded and renumbered as No. 75 Squadron RNZAF. It formed up as a Fighter/Bomber unit and requiped with 50 ex-RAF de Havilland Mosquitos, which they flew out from Britain.\n\nThe RAF were to never again have a No. 75 Squadron, and it is the only RAF Squadron to be given to a Commonwealth country by Britain. The squadron badge was also transferred and maintained its RAF format but with the Royal New Zealand Air Force title. This is also a unique aspect, being the only RAF format badge among all the RNZAF Commonwealth format badges.\n\n75 (NZ) Squadron was engaged constantly against Germany from 1940 to VE day. The squadron flew more sorties than any other Allied heavy bomber squadron, suffered the second most casualties of all Allied squadrons, and dropped the second largest weight of bombs of any Allied squadron. The highest Commonwealth award for valour – the Victoria Cross – was awarded to Sgt J A Ward for climbing out onto the wing of a Wellington he was second pilot of, when on an operation over Europe, in an attempt to put out an engine fire. Although badly damaged by enemy fighters' canon shells, the aircraft managed to return to its base.\n\nA rebuilt Lancaster in the Museum of Transport and Technology at Auckland, New Zealand, has the AA codes of one of 75 (NZ) Squadron aircraft. This particular aircraft never saw active service, but was left in New Zealand by the French Navy, and gifted to the people of New Zealand. The only aircraft in 75 (NZ) Squadron to achieve more than 100 operations was Lancaster NE181 (JN-M). Attempts were made to have this aircraft brought back to New Zealand in 1945 but the New Zealand Government would not pay for her to be brought to New Zealand. All of the surviving 75 (NZ) Squadron aircraft were scrapped in 1947–48. The National Archives features an interview with Gordon Ford, a British wireless operator who served with 75 (NZ) Squadron in World War II.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2008254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2008254", "title": "The Final Reckoning", "text": "The Final Reckoning\n\nThe Final Reckoning is the third novel in the Deptford Mice Trilogy by Robin Jarvis (first published in 1990).\n\nThe ghostly spirit of Jupiter is back, more powerful than ever before. Bent on revenge, he smothers the world in an eternal winter of ice and snow.\n\nHuddled around their fires, the Deptford Mice are worried: the mystical bats have fled the attic, and underground a new rat army is being mustered. With food short and no sign of spring, the mice know that a desperate struggle confronts them. Few will survive.\n"}
{"id": "2008258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2008258", "title": "The Captain Matchbox Whoopee Band", "text": "The Captain Matchbox Whoopee Band\n\nThe Captain Matchbox Whoopee Band, also known as Soapbox Circus or Matchbox, were an Australian jug band formed in 1969. It centred on Mic Conway (\"Captain Matchbox\") on lead vocals, washboard and ukulele; and his brother, Jim Conway, on harmonica, kazoo and vocals. They issued four studio albums, \"Smoke Dreams\" (June 1973), \"Wangaratta Wahine\" (late 1974), \"Australia\" (November 1975) and \"Slightly Troppo\" (1978), before they disbanded in September 1980. The Conway brothers reformed the group in 2010 as Captain Matchbox Reignited and disbanded again two years later. In October 2010, \"Smoke Dreams\" was listed in the book, \"100 Best Australian Albums\".\n\nThe Captain Matchbox Whoopee Band were formed in Melbourne in 1969 as a jug band by Mic Conway on lead vocals, washboard and ukulele; his brother, Jim Conway on harmonica, kazoo and vocals; Mick Fleming on banjo, mandolin, guitar and vocals; Dave Hubbard on guitar; David Isom on guitar and vocals; Jeffrey Cheesman on guitar and vocals; Inge de Koster on violin; and John McDiarmid on tea-chest bass and flute. David Isom, Jeffrey Cheesman, Inge de Koster and John McDiarmid later replaced by Peter Inglis on guitar and vocals; Jim Niven on piano; and Peter Scott on tea chest bass.\n\nInspired by early jazz recordings and jug band music they heard on reel-to-reel tapes and 78s as teenagers, the Conways formed the Jellybean Jug Band while secondary students at Camberwell High School. After they left school, in 1969, they formed the Captain Matchbox Whoopee Band, which grew from an underground art school band to a national icon, with film and television appearances and regular appearances in the charts. Australian musicologist, Ian McFarlane, opined, \"one of the most unusual aggregations ever assembled in Australia, [they] played jug-band blues enlivened with sideshow entertainment and vaudeville lunacy.\"\n\nDuring 1971 they appeared as themselves in Tim Burstall's comedy feature film, \"Stork\". They signed with Image Records and issued their debut single, \"My Canary Has Circles Under His Eyes\" (written by Jack Golden, Ted Koehler and Edward Pola), which is a cover version of Irish-born English band leader, Debroy Somers' 1931 original. Captain Matchbox's version reached No. 35 on the \"Go-Set\" National Top 40 in November 1972. Their follow up single, \"I Can't Dance (Got Ants in My Pants)\" (April 1973), did not chart.\n\nThe Captain Matchbox Whoopee Band's debut album, \"Smoke Dreams\" (June 1973), reached the \"Go-Set\" Australian Albums Top 20. McFarlane observed that it consisted entirely of \"1930s and 1940s jazz, blues and jug-band standards.\" It was also released in the US via ESP-Disk label, in the DynaQuad quadraphonic format. AllMusic's reviewer, arwulf arwulf, rated it at four-and-a-half stars out of five and explained, \"this frowsy little group specialized in popular novelty, jazz and blues songs dating from the 1920s and '30s, whipping themselves into a frenzy over vintage delights.\"\n\nIn November 1973 the group's line-up was the Conway brothers, Fleming and Niven with Dave Flett on electric bass, slide dobro, backing vocals and ukulele (ex-Lipp and the Double Dekker Brothers); Geoff Hales on drums and washboard; and Fred Olbrei on violin and vocals. Jon Snyder joined on guitar early in the following year. They issued a second studio album, \"Wangaratta Wahine\" (late 1974), which was produced by Ern Rose at Armstrong Studios. It had a cover illustration by Australian cartoonist, Michael Leunig. It provided the singles, \"Hernando's Hideaway\" (July 1974) and \"Wangaratta Wahine\" (1974). Basil of \"Tharunka\" caught their performance in early May 1974, he felt, \"[the group] epitomised the 20s, Prohibition and flappers... [with their] cunning combination of the camp, the serious, the brilliant, the hilarious, did once again what they do\nbetter than any other band in the country: entertain their audience unrelentingly.\"\n\nIn March 1975 the group appeared on ABC-TV's pop music show, \"Countdown\", to perform the latter single. The track is an original, written by Mic Conway and Flett. Tony Wright of \"The Sydney Morning Herald\", in June 2013, lamented the modification of the Hume Highway and its bypass of the city of Wangaratta; he recalled how, \"Wangaratta and its highway culture was captured forever by the marvellously whacky [group]... The title song, held together by a wailing mouth organ, was dedicated to a waitress in a late-night roadhouse restaurant ('My Wahine in Wang'). I'm pretty sure I visited the very same roadhouse, for a plastic palm tree is described within the lyrics, though who could be sure? There were roadhouses like that all up and down the Hume once.\" In August 1975 the album peaked at No. 4 on the Kent Music Report Albums Chart.\n\nDuring 1975 Fleming and Hales left and were replaced by Chris Worrall (ex-The Pelaco Brothers) on guitar and Manny Paterakis on drums. The group were signed to Mushroom Records and released their third album, \"Australia\", in that year. McFarlane found, \"it was an entertaining mix of originals and covers.\" Tony Catterall of \"The Canberra Times\" noticed that one way the group, \"maintains total absorption is by pretending to be a band of brilliant musicians justifiably despatched to a lunatic asylum and which plays at the next-door sleazy nightclub, which the other inmates also attend... It's hard to pick favourites but the title track is a gem: full of pomp and cracked trumpets blaring after its military beat, and both an ocker's anthem and the first impressions the archetypal, Crass Texas Millionaire has of Australia.\"\n\nIn December they supported Skyhooks on that group's In the Heat of the Night Tour, after which Catterall surmised the Captain Matchbox Whoopee Band, \"is unlikely to reach the sales position of the Hooks, [but] it too is a proven winner.\" In 1976 they continued through line-up changes first with Olbrei, Paterakis and Worrall replaced by Jack Sara, Graeme Isaac and Gordon McLean, respectively. Soon after Niven left to form a rock band, the Sports.\n\nThe group were renamed the Soapbox Circus, and were incorporated into the Australian Performing Group (APG). Flett left, while Rick Ludbrook on guitar and saxophone and Peter Muhleisen on bass guitar joined the line-up to record a live album, \"The Great Stumble Forward\" (1976). They performed in a musical theatre play, \"Smackin' the Dacks\", at the Pram Factory Front Theatre, Carlton from 17 November to 24 December 1977. The musicians were the Conway brothers, Ludbrook, McLean and Muhleisen joined by Tony Burkys and Colin Stevens.\n\nBy 1978 the band were renamed Matchbox with the Conway brothers, Ludbrook, McLean, Muhleisen, Burkys on guitar (ex-Original Battersea Heroes) and Stephen Cooney on guitar (ex-Phil Manning Band), who was soon replaced by Louis McManus (ex-Bushwackers). The musical theatre component, Soapbox Circus, were incorporated into Circus Oz. Matchbox issued a studio album, \"Slightly Troppo\" (1978), which delivered two singles. \"The Canberra Times\" Luis Feliu felt, \"There seems to be more emphasis on polish compared with previous material; more of that Matchbox spirit and wit, send-ups as usual (less hard-core political though – the cause seems to be lost).\" He claimed, \"[they are] by far the best good-time jug band in Australia, which leads me to point out that it's a truly resilient band, having covered so many campuses and rock venues throughout Australia.\"\n\nMatchbox appeared in Burstall's feature film, \"Dimboola\" (1979), performing the track, \"The Sheik of Araby. By mid-year the line-up of the Conways, McManus and Muhleisen had been joined by Chris Coyne on saxophone and flute, Eric McCusker on guitar and Robert Ross on drums (ex-Manning). They performed \"a more rock-oriented sound.\" A truck crash while on tour in 1979 ruined the band financially and emotionally and, after paying off their debts, they disbanded in September 1980. Their final single, \"Juggling Time\", had been released early in 1980 which was recorded by Matchbox Band with the line-up of the Conways, Coyne, McCusker, McManus, Muhleisen and Ross.\n\nThe band reformed in 1996 for the Port Fairy Folk Festival, and again in 2010 under the name \"Captain Matchbox Re-Ignited\" for the Woodford Folk Festival, with shows at Bluesfest and Sydney and Melbourne. Members: Mic Conway, Jim Conway, Jeremy Cook, Don Hopkins, Phil Donnison, Cazzbo Johns, Jess Green and George Washingmachine. In October 2010, \"Smoke Dreams\" (1973) was listed in the book, \"100 Best Australian Albums\".\n\nMic Conway continued to record and perform regularly, both as a solo artist and with his National Junk Band. Jim Conway worked on many musical projects and became a sought-after session and backing musician, however due to the onset of multiple sclerosis, his health (but not his playing) was significantly affected and in early 2014 he retired.\n\nChris Worrall was the founding guitarist of Melbourne-based pub rockers, the Bleeding Hearts, in 1976, and joined Paul Kelly & the Dots in February 1979. Manny Paterakis was the founding drummer in Mike Rudd & the Heaters in 1979. Eric McCusker joined Mondo Rock on guitar in April 1980. From 1980 to 1983 Dave Flett was bass guitarist of folk and political rockers, Redgum. Louis McManus joined Adelaide-based reggae rockers, No Fixed Address, on guitar in 1984. Peter Inglis joined the original Skyhooks in 1973.\n\n\nCredits\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2008260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2008260", "title": "Amen.", "text": "Amen.\n\nAmen. is a 2002 historical drama film co-written and directed by Costa-Gavras and starring Ulrich Tukur, Mathieu Kassovitz, Sebastian Koch and Ulrich Mühe. The film examines the political and diplomatic relationship between the Vatican and Nazi Germany during World War II. It is based upon the play, \"Der Stellvertreter\" by Rolf Hochhuth.\n\nDuring World War II, Kurt Gerstein (Ulrich Tukur), a Waffen-SS officer employed in the SS Hygiene Institute, designs programs for the purification of water and the destruction of vermin. He is shocked to learn that the process he has developed to eradicate typhus, by using a hydrogen cyanide mixture called Zyklon B, is now being used for killing Jews and other \"undesirables\" in extermination camps. Gerstein attempts to notify Pope Pius XII (Marcel Iureş) about the gassings, but is appalled by the lack of response he gets from the Catholic hierarchy. The only person moved is Riccardo Fontana (Mathieu Kassovitz), a young Jesuit priest. Fontana and Gerstein attempt to raise awareness about what is happening to the Jews in Europe but even after Fontana appealing to the pope himself, the Vatican makes only a timid and vague condemnation of Hitler and Nazi Germany.\n\nEventually Gerstein travels to Rome to speak to the Pope himself but when he arrives the Germans are taking control of Rome and begin rounding up the Italian Jews to be sent to concentration camps. Fontana begs the Pope to force the Germans to stop the deportation by appearing at the train station in person but the Pope refuses, saying that doing so will cause hardship for the Christians living under Nazi Germany. In disgust and sorrow Fontana puts a Yellow badge on himself and allows himself to be taken on the train of Jews going to the concentration camps. When he arrives at the camp Fontana is interrogated by the head of the camp, a 'friend' of Kurt Gerstein known simply as the Doctor (who is believed to be Dr. Josef Mengele), who despite knowing that the war is lost and that Fontana is a Catholic priest allows Fontana to stay with the Jews and be gassed.\n\nGerstein attempts to save Fontana but he will not leave. The Doctor escorts Gerstein out of the camp after Fontana and most of the Jews are killed; they drive by German soldiers digging up and burning the bodies of Jews in a mass grave near the camp and the Doctor asks Gerstein if he knows any contacts to help get him out of Germany. Gerstein returns home and gathers all his evidence that documents the Nazi atrocities and takes them to the Allies. Despite accepting his evidence he is still arrested and after reading the charges against him he is found hanged in his cell. Afterward the Doctor is seen speaking to a Cardinal in Rome asking for help leaving the country saying \"I'm a doctor, just a physician\" and the cardinal agrees to help send him to Argentina.\n\nWhile the character of Kurt Gerstein is historical, the character of the young priest is fictional. Although based on the action of Gerstein to stop and bring global awareness to the Holocaust, the plot is largely fictitious.\n\n\nThe film is based on a 1963 play by Rolf Hochhuth, \"The Deputy, a Christian Tragedy\", which was widely attacked in Catholic and Jewish circles for its portrayal of Pope Pius XII. The German-language version of the film was released under the play's original title \"Der Stellvertreter\".\n\nSince the Holy See did not allow filming in the Vatican, the scenes in the papal palaces were shot in the Palace of the Parliament of Bucharest, Romania.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2008270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2008270", "title": "Tin Machine II", "text": "Tin Machine II\n\nTin Machine II is the second and final studio album by Anglo-American rock group Tin Machine, originally released by Victory Music in 1991. After this album and the supporting tour, Tin Machine dissolved as frontman David Bowie resumed his solo career. \n\nThe band reconvened following their 1989 tour, recording most of the album in Sydney. The band played an impromptu show at a small Sydney venue on 4 November 1989, which prompted a rebuke from the local musician's union before taking a rest while David Bowie conducted his solo Sound+Vision Tour and filmed \"The Linguini Incident\".\n\nIn describing this album, guitarist Reeves Gabrels said \"this album is as aggressive as the first one, but the songs are more melodic. Last time, we were screaming at the world. This time, I think, they're all love songs in a strange kind of way\", and he joked that his personal playing style was something his friends called \"modal chromaticism, which is 'any note you want as long as you end on a right note.'\"\n\nGabrels later stated that at the time he was deeply into Nine Inch Nails' album \"Pretty Hate Machine\" and was looking for an industrial edge to his own guitar work for the album. Ultimately (after recording track after track of guitar noise), he found a \"shard of guitar noise\" that he liked and used it on the album track \"Shopping for Girls,\" a song about child prostitution in Thailand. Bowie said of the track:\n\n\"If There Is Something\" (a Roxy Music cover) was originally recorded during the sessions for the first Tin Machine album but deemed unsatisfactory, so it was shelved until this album.\n\nThe track \"Goodbye Mr. Ed\" was started as a jam the band used to tune up one day. Tony Hunt recalled \"We all came back from lunch and David had written a whole sheet of lyrics for it, and then he put the vocal on later with the melody.\" Bowie described the meaning of the song this way:\nThe group signed to Victory Music and added three further tracks in Los Angeles, with Hugh Padgham (producer of Bowie's 1984 album \"Tonight\") overseeing the song \"One Shot\". Gabrels later said the band was pressured by Victory Music's owner Phil Carson to re-record \"One Shot\" with Padgham because \"radio would play the song if they saw Hugh’s name\", but in essence the original and released version of the song were \"nearly identical.\" Gabrels said \"the only difference is the hi-hat pattern. And I think the guitar solo is better on the Hugh version.\" The album was issued in September 1991. Hunt Sales took lead vocals on two tracks: \"Stateside\" and \"Sorry\".\n\nThe song \"Betty Wrong\" is featured in the 1990 film \"The Crossing\".\n\nThe album's cover was created by Edward Bell, who had previously worked with Bowie in making artwork for \"Scary Monsters (and Super Creeps)\". In a manner similar to pop art, it consists of a photo of the Kroisos Kouros repeated fourfold. The original concept had each one overlaid with torn pieces of photos of each member to represent them (except for Gabrels', which featured a cutout of a Steinberger guitar). The photo that would have represented Bowie was used to emblazon the CD label.\n\nFor the American release of the album, the cover was airbrushed to remove the genitalia of the Kouroi statues. \"Even Canada has the original cover,\" Bowie said, \"Only in America …\" Bowie floated the idea of allowing American album-buyers to send away to the record company for the genitalia that were struck from their version of the cover, but the label balked. He said: \"then [the fans] could paste them back on. But the label freaked out at the idea. Sending genitals through the mail is a serious offense.\"\n\nLess successful than the band's debut album, \"Tin Machine II\" peaked at No. 23 in the UK and No. 126 in the USA. It received generally poor reviews on release, although it achieved success on the Modern Rock chart in the USA, where \"Baby Universal\" reached No. 21, and \"One Shot\" became an even bigger hit, reaching No. 3. \"Q\" magazine, in a review that stated on the cover the question \"Are Tin Machine Crap?\", felt that this album did not \"quite match up to their wonderfully overwrought but sadly under bought debut\", while praising such individual tracks such as \"If There Was Something\", \"You Belong in Rock 'n' Roll\" and \"Shopping for Girls\". There were positive reviews, with one reviewer finding the album \"a return to raw form\" and called it \"the best music Bowie's released since 1980s \"Scary Monsters\"\", while another found the album \"well-conceived and well-executed\", only lamenting that it had perhaps been released before radio listeners were ready to hear it. Yet another critic praised Gabrels' guitar work as \"two parts Robert Fripp, one part Eddie Van Halen and one part speeding ambulance\" in a review that also praised the album. In 2010, \"Uncut\" magazine placed the album on their list of 50 Great Lost Albums (their list of great albums not currently available for purchase), calling the album \"extraordinary\".\n\nIn the years after the album's release, some critics have suggested that the album was \"unjustly\" harshly reviewed at the time of its release.\n\nThe band supported the album with a seven-month tour called the \"It's My Life Tour\", which started in late 1991 and ran through early 1992. Tracks from this and the first Tin Machine album were released on \"\" (1992).\n\n\"Hammerhead\" is an edit from the longer vocal version that was issued as the B-side for some releases of the \"You Belong in Rock 'n' Roll\" and \"One Shot\" singles.\n\nTin Machine – producers, mixing\n\n\nAlbum\n"}
